Vol. 14	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1885.	No. 10.


[Column 1]
﻿AN EPISTLE FROM THE FIRST
		PRESIDENCY.
			-------
To the Officers and Members of the
   Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
   day Saints:
  BRETHREN AND SISTERS.—As the
time for holding our Semi-annual Con-
ference has again come around, and we
are still prevented from addressing the
Saints in public, we deem it proper to
take this method of communicating
with you, that you may know the coun-
sel we have to give, and that we are not
neglectful of the duties which devolve
upon us as the First Presidency of the
Church.
  As all the Saints doubtless under-
stand, there has been no cessation since
we last wrote, in the work of persecu-
tion. It rages, if anything, more fierce-
ly than ever. Under cover of what is
called the Edmunds law, the most
outrageous acts of oppression are being
perpetrated against the Latter-day
Saints. The avowal has been openly
made that this law was expressly de-
signed for the destruction of a principle
of our religion, and in this spirit all
the prosecutions have been conducted.
Thus far no criminal, however guilty,
who has not been a “Mormon,” has
been punished under it. Acts of the
most sickening depravity have been
committed by non-“Mormons” within
easy reach of its arm but have scarce-
ly had a passing notice. While it is
also worthy of note that, up to the
present writing, out of all who have
been accused and brought before the
District court, only one “Mormon” has
been acquitted. The man acquitted,
we understand, was charged with being
the husband of a woman, on the ground
that he had camped in his wagon in a
ten acre lot in which her residence
stood and had carried some chickens
for her to market!
  One of the most remarkable features
connected with the administration of
this law is the extraordinary rulings
which are made in its enforcement.
The Judge who presides in the Second
Judicial District, in the recent trial of
a case of unlawful cohabitation, gave
instructions to the jury, at the request
of the defense. Several accused per-
sons would have been cleared in the
Third Judicial District, had the juries.
which rendered verdicts in their cases,
been similarly instructed. They are as
follows:
 1. Prior to the act of March 22d, 1882, co-
habitation with more than one woman was
not unlawful.
  2.  If you find from the evidence that the
defendant, since the passage of the Ed-
munds act, March 22d, 1882, and within the
dates named in the indictment, has not held
out to the world, introduced, or announced
more than one of the women named in the
indictment as his wife, you should acquit
the defendant.
  3.  It is not necessary that the parties to
a polygamous marriage, or who have lived
in the practice of cohabiting with two or
more women, should divorce themselves, in
order to entitle them to the presumption of
innocence of cohabitation after the passage
of the law.
  4.  As all children of polygamous mar-
riages, begotten before March 22nd, 1882,are
legitimated,and no cohabitation before that
date was unlawful, no criminating infer-
ence can be drawn by the jury from the de-
fendant’s later acknowledgments of his pa-
ternity of such children by the women men-
tioned in the indictment, nor from later
recognition of such women as their
mothers, and as women whom he had be-
fore said date, taken into the polygamous
relation with him.
  6.  The law presumes innocence, and
therefore, that all persons who were co-
habiting when the Edmunds act took effect,
contrary to the provisions of that act, then
ceased to do so.
  8.  The law presumes all persons charged
with a criminal offense to be innocent until
the presumption is overcome by proof;
therefore it presumes that all persons who
were living with more than one woman as
wives prior to March 22d, 1882, have since
that date ceased to so live and cohabit.
  9.  If you find from the evidence that de-
fendant had children by the women named
in the indictment prior to March 22d, 1882,
then the defendant had a right to visit his
children, and support them and make ar-
rangements as to their welfare. He had a
right also to assist their mothers in their
support, and for such a purpose could visit

[Column 2]
the house where they and their mothers
live. He could furnish them a home, he
could visit the mother, the same as if they
had been divorced, or as if no such previous
relations had existed between them, but he
should not associate with her as a husband
associates with his wife.

  Do we say too much if we state that
there are those now undergoing punish-
ment in the penitentiary in the society
of thieves and murderers, who would
be as free as the prosecuting officers
themselves, had the law been construed
by the legal canons applied to other
laws, and according to the instruc-
tions given above?
  The practice in these attacks upon us
has not been to presume the accused
innocent until proved guilty; but to
view him as undoubtedly guilty because
accused; and the rulings of the Court
in several instances have been made to
secure conviction where the evidence
was open to question. The extraordi-
nary ruling concerning “holding out,”
is one in point; notwithstanding the
Edmunds law sp[-]ci[-]ies that the pena[-]ty
for unlawful cohabitation, shall not be
more than six months’ imprisonment,
and three hundred dollars’ fine, the
notorious ruling from the same bench
concerning the number of indictments
which can be found against a person
accused of unlawful cohabitation,
states that he not only can be indicted
once for the whole period since the
passage of the law, but an indictment
can be found for every week of that
time; so that, if found guilty in this
manner, a man’s punishment would
aggregate an imprisonment of 92 years
and fines to the amount of $55,200.
 Still more extraordinary is the ruling
of another Judge, who, not to be out-
done in his zeal, says, that an indict-
ment can be found for this charge
against a man for every day,or other dis-
tinct interval of time since the enact-
ment of the law!  As about 1292 days have
passed since then, a man found guilty
can be incarcerated in prison for 646
years and made pay fines to the amount
of $387,600. Comment upon this ab-
surdity is unnecessary.
  Before the Edmunds bill became
law, and while on its passage, it was
claimed that its provisions were of
general application and in the interests
of morality, and not, as we asserted,
a measure directly aimed at religious
liberty and for purposes of persecu-
tion. But time has fully revealed its
true character. Stripped of all dis-
guise it stands out now in all its hide-
ousness. The most shocking immor-
ality flourishes in its presence and
thrives under the very eyes of its ad-
ministrators. All forms of vice, if not
directly encouraged by those who are
charged with the duty of administering
the Edmunds law, are at least viewed
by them with indifference. They ap-
pear to have no care as to the most
flagrant sexual crimes, if they are only
committed by non-“Mormons,”or out-
side of the pale of matrimony. “Mor-
mons” also, under the present admin-
istration of the law, may do what they
please with women, be guilty of the
foulest injustice to them and their off-
spring, if they will only disown them
as wives. The war is openly and un-
disguisedly made upon our religion.
To induce men to repudiate that, to
violate its precepts and to break its
solemn covenants, every encourage-
ment is given. The man who agrees to
discard his wife or wives,and to tram-
ple upon the most sacred obligations
which human beings can enter into,
escapes imprisonment and is ap-
plauded; while the man who will not
make this compact of dishonor, who
will not admit that his past life has
been a fraud and a lie, who will not
say to the world, “I intended to de-
ceive my God, my brethren and my
wives by making covenants I did not
expect to keep,” is, besides being pun-
ished to the full extent of the law,
compelled to endure the reproaches,
taunts and insults of a brutal judge.
  Notwithstanding all these cruelties
are practiced against us, we do not feel
that, as Latter-day Saints, we should
mourn because of them. We should
mourn because of our weaknesses

[Column 3]
follies and sins, and repent of them
But to be persecuted, to be discrimin-
ated against, to be separated from the
rest of the world, to be imprisoned and
abused are not causes of sorrow to true
Saints; they are causes of rejoicing.
If, in the great hereafter, we expect to
be admitted to the society of the Son of
God, our Redeemer, to the society
of Prophets and Apostles, and holy
men and women, ought we not to
be willing to endure the tribula-
tions which they received so joy-
fully? Where is the Prophet or
Apostle who did not endure persecu-
tion, whose liberty and life were not in
almost constant jeopardy? They did
not have an Edmunds law, perhaps,
enforced against them; but they had
laws which emanated from the same
source. With few exceptions they
were all punished, deprived of  [-]iberty
and of life, in the sacred name of law.
Even the holiest Being that ever trod
the earth, the great Redeemer of man-
kind himself, was crucified between
two thieves to satisfy Jewish law.
  There has probably never been a time
in the history of mankind when those
whom we now revere as martyrs and
whose sacrifices adorn and glorify our
humanity and lift it nearer to God,
could not, by being recreant to the
truth entrusted to them, have escaped
the fate which made them so admirable
to the generations which followed
them. The Savior himself had it in his
power to compromise with his enemies
and escape the cruel and ignominious
death inflicted upon him. Abraham
might have bowed to the gods of his
idolatrous father and needed no angel
to rescue him from his impending
doom. Daniel and his three brethren,
also, might have submitted to the de-
cree and law of the ruling powers un-
der which they lived and escaped the
fiery furnace and the den of lions.
Their refusals to obey the decree and
law doubtless appeared to those who
had not the knowledge of God which
they possessed, as acts of wicked ob-
stinancy that should be summarily
punished. But had they, to escape the
threatened penalty,obeyed these edicts,
posterity would have lost the benefit
of their example, and the great God
would not have been glorified before
their contemporaries as He was by
their acts. Instead of their names be-
ing, as now, radiant with light and re-
splendent with heroism, they would,
had they reached us, been covered with
odium and been mentioned in the same
category with the Jews concerning
whom the Prophet Jeremiah said:
“They bend their tongues like their
bow for lies;but they are not valiant for
the truth upon the earth; for they pro-
ceed from evil to evil, and they know
not me, saith the Lord.”
 Well-meaning friends of ours have
said that our refusal to renounce the
principle of celestial marriage invites
destruction. They warn us and im-
plore us to yield.  They appeal to every
human interest and adjure us to bow to
a law, which is admitted on all hands to
have  been framed expressly for the de-
struction of the principle which we are
called upon to reject. They say it is
madness to resist the will of so over-
whelming a majority. They say they
see the gathering clouds,that they hear
the premonitory mutterings of the re-
sistless tempest which is about to
break in destructive fury upon our
heads, and they call upon us to avert
its wrath by timely submission. But
they perceive not the hand of that
Being who controls all storms,whose
voice the tempest obeys, at whose [--]at
thrones and empires are thrown down
—the Almighty God, Lord of heaven
and earth, who has made promises to
us and who has never failed to fulfill all
His words.
  We did not reveal celestial marriage.
We cannot withdraw or renounce it.
God revealed it, and He has promised
to maintain it and to bless those who
obey it. Whatever fate, then, may
threaten us, there is but one course
for men of God to take, that is,to keep
inviolate the holy covenants they have
made in the presence of God and an-
gels. For the remainder, whether it

[Column 4]
be life or death, freedom or imprison-
ment, prosperity or adversity, we must
trust in God. We may say, however,
if any man or woman, expects to enter
into the celestial kingdom of our God
without making sacrifices and without
being tested to the very uttermost,they
have uot understood the Gospel.If there
is a weak spot in our nature,or if there
is a fibre that can be made to quiver or
to shrink, we may rest assured that it
will be tested. Our own weaknesses
will be brought fully to light, and in
seeking for help, the strength of our
God will also be made manifest to us.
The Latter-day Saints have been
taught this from the beginning. Such
scenes as we now witness in these
mountains and hear about in lands
where the Elders are preaching the
Gospel ought not to be a surprise to us.
The Prophets and Apostles and Elders
of this dispensation would be false
Prophets and Apostles and Elders if
these events did not take place; for
they have predicted them and warned
the people unceasingly concerning
them.
  Speaking concerning law,the Lord,in
a revelation given through the Prophet
Joseph, August 6th, 1833, says:

  4. And now, verily I say unto you con-
cerning the laws of the land, it is my will
that my people should observe to do all
things whatsoever I command them;
  5.  And that law of the land which is con-
stitutional, supporting that principle of-
freedom in maintaining rights and privi-
leges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifi-
able before me;
  6.  Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and
your brethren of my church. in befriending
that law which is the constitutional law of
the land;
  7.  And as pertaining to law of man, what-
soever is more or less than these cometh of
evil.
  8.  I, the Lord God, make you free, there-
fore ye are free indeed; and the law also
maketh you free;
  9.  Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the
people mourn.
  10.  Wherefore, honest men and wise men
should be sought for diligently, and good
men and wise men ye should observe to up-
hold; otherwise whatsoever is less than
these cometh of evil.
  11.  And I give unto you a commandment,
that ye shall forsake all evil and cleave unto
all good, that ye shall live by every word
which proceedeth forth out of the month of
God;
  12.  For he will give unto the faithful line
upon line, precept upon precept; and I will
try you and prove you herewith;
  13.  And whoso layeth down his life in my
cause, for my name’s sake, shall find it
again. even life eternal;
 14.  Therefore be not afraid of your ene-
mies, for I have decreed in my heart, saith
the Lord, that I will prove you in all things,
whether you will abide in my covenant even
unto death, that you may be found worthy;
  15.  For if ye will not abide in my cove-
nant, ye are not worthy of me.

 Fifty-two years have passed since
this was given to the Church, and we
are now witnessing its fulfilment.  The
Saints are required to do whatsoever
the Lord commands them, to live by
every word which proeeedeth forth out
of the mouth of God. They are also
instructed to befriend every constitu-
tional law of the land; for such laws
support the principle of freedom; they
maintain rights and privileges This,
as a people, we have striven to do from
the beginning of our organization. We
have ever been a law-abiding people.
Times without number we have suf-
fered the most grievous wrongs with-
out resenting them. We have ever
thought it better to suffer wrong than
to do wrong.
  Such was the case when we suffered
expatriation from the State of Mis-
souri. We were robbed and pillaged,
despoiled and persecuted, yet we had
no idea of retaliating on account of
these wrongs upon the government
and its institutions, which to us are
sacred. The same loyal spirit animated
us when we were beset by blood-
thirsty mobs in Illinois, one of which
murdered Joseph Smith, our Prophet,
and Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, while
they were under the pledged protection
of the State, given through the gov-
ernor. On the same occasion one of
the signers of this address was also
brought to the gate of death, by being


shot by the same band of assassins.
When driven from the homes we had
established in Illinois, we had no
disposition to hold the nation
at large nor the government
of our beloved country responsible for
those inhuman deeds, nor to allow the
spirit of vengeance to rankle in our
hearts. We took the first opportunity
to exhibit the spirit of true patriotism.
While undergoing great hardship on
account of being subjected to a com-
pulsory exodus, when called upon by
the government to furnish a body of
men to take part in the war with 
Mexico, 500 of the flower of our camp
responded with alacrity, and in ac-
cordance with the call of our country,
traversed the great American desert,
penetrated to Mexico, and com-
pleted an arduous and hazardous
campaign, and journey to California.
   You have no doubt read, through the
papers, an account of the terrible af-
fair which recently occurred at Rock
Springs, in Wyoming Territory. We
could not help feeling a little anxiety
lest some of our people should have
been connected with that bloody riot,
and immediately requested Brother
Cluff, President of Summit Stake, to
inquire into the matter. So far as we
have obtained information to the pres-
ent, however, we find that not more
than one has been in any way mixed up
with that matter, and he a person of
doubtful standing. We are pleased to
learn of this, because we cannot as-
sociate with any deeds so revolting
and inhuman, and we take this oppor-
tunity to express our opinion on this
subject to the Saints. A great number
of secret societies are being formed
with which we cannot affiliate. Such 
organizations are generally inimical to
law, to good order, and in many in-
stances subversive of the rights of
man. We cannot amalgamate with
them. They are very distinctly spoken
against in the Book of Mormon, as
among the calamities which should af-
flict the people.
   We are expressly commanded, and it
becomes our duty, to uphold and sus-
tain every law of the land which is con-
stitutional; we have always had a strong
desire to obey such laws, and to place
ourselves in harmony with all the in-
stitutions of the country.
   We repeat that we desire that all
men should be aware of the fact that
we have been the upholders of the
Constitution and laws enacted in pur-
suance of that sacred instrument.
We still entertain the same patriotic
disposition, and propose to continue
acting in conformity with with it to the last.
Neither have we any desire to come in
active conflict even with statures that
we deem opposed to the Constitution 
both in letter and spirit. Whatever
opposition has been offered in that line
has been only of such a character as
is justified by the usages and cus-
toms of this and all other civilized 
countries, and such as the laws and in-
stitutions of this nation provide. Nor
have we the least desire to shun the
consequences of our acts in their rela-
tionship to the laws to which we refer,
providing there were any assurance
that our cases would be submitted to a
fair and just adjudication. Events of
the past few months give no ground
for hope that such treatment
would be accorded. It must be con-
tended, however, that, as stated else-
where, connected with this disposition
to have our conduct passed upon as
provided by law administered in the
genius of justice, there never can be
any hope of our yielding up, under any
circumstances, a principle of consci-
entious or religious conviction. Were
we to make such a surrender our con-
duct in that respect would not be in
harmony with the guaranties of the
Constitution, which we are in duty
bound to uphold.
   In order to place our people at a dis-
advantage, and to crush out their re-
ligious system, the Constitution has
been violated in a number of ways. It
does not require any depth of legal
learning to understand what is meant
by a religious test, which is forbidden
by the "supreme law of the land."
Yet laws have been passed applicable
to a wide section of this northwestern 
country, disfranchising and inflicting
total political disability upon our peo-
ple, without regard to their acts. The
offense for which this restriction has
been prescribed is simply religious be-
lief, and the means of application is a
religious test. It is consequently un-
constitutional upon its face. This and
other laws--notably the Edmunds act--
inflict disabilities upon those of our 
people who are not in any way asso-
ciated, by their acts, with polygamy.
Thus probably about nine-tenths
of our community are punished
for alleged offenses for which
they are in no way responsible,
and in which they have taken no part. 
Surely no person who is unbiased, that
gives this subject even the most casual
attention can characterize such treat-
ment as other than flagrantly unjust.
   It has been estimated that out of a
community of about 200,000 people, 
more or less, from 10,000 to 12,000 are 
identified with polygamy. When the
Edmunds act was passed this small
minority who were deprived by it of
the right to vote or hold office, volun-
tarily, without the application of
coercion, withdrew from those priv-
ileges, notwithstanding the high esti-
mate they placed upon them. It may
well be asked wherein is the justice of
placing the bulk of the people at a dis-
advantage as well, seeing they have
done nothing to furnish an excuse for
such treatment? Granting that the
small minority connected with polyg-
amy are criminals before the law,
what justification is there, on that ac-
count, for punishing, as the Edmunds 
and other acts do, the overwhelming
majority? If such doings were per-
petrated in any other connection they
would be unsparingly denounced as
oppressive and tyrannical in the most
extreme degree. If one portion of a
community are designated as criminal,
to hold the other and much the greaterportion responsible for such a condi-
tion is not only unjust, but decidedly 
absurd.
   Statements upon this subject have
been made to the Chief Executive of
the nation, in the form of a protest and
petition for redress of grievances.
Knowing that misrepresentations have
taken the place of impartial scrutiny
of the question with which the Latter-
day Saints are associated, the conse-
quences being a general misapprehen-
sion of the community and their af-
fairs, we presumed that Mr. Cleveland
was not acquainted with the real situa-
tion. An opportunity was thus sought
to acquaint him with the facts. The
very reasonable desire was expressed
in this connection that a commission
of inquiry be appointed, that the truth
might appear and be given to the na-
tion. Was it too much to expect that
this action, supported by a represen-
tation of 200,000 people, would meet
with some favorable response, which
thus far has not, however, been made?
Yet it would be unfair to attribute the
delay of the President either to indif-
ference or a disposition to refuse to
accord justice to a people whose liber-
ties are being trampled upon to an ex-
tent that is almost past human endur-
ance. It is still hoped that he will
take some consistent and humane
action in the premises. In alluding to
the delay in granting a response to the
representations made to the President,
we must not forget the extensive and
arduous character of the duties de-
volving upon him, as the head of the
administration of a great government.
We mention this that you may not be
disposed to be too censorious in re-
gard to the actions of men in high
places who have the power to redress
our grievances. And even when we
feel that we are wronged, it is proper
for us to follow the example of our
Lord and Master, and say: "Father,
forgive them, they know not what they
do."
   Referring once more to the situation
in a more local sense, we are not obli-
vious to the anomalous position in
which the Federal judicial officers are
placed in dealing with a subject which
appears to occupy a large share of
popular attention. While it is impos-
sible for them to escape pro-
nounced exceptions being taken to
their official course, on account
of its harshness, undue rigor, and
unjust discrimination in adminis-
tering the laws, they are entitled to
some consideration, justified by well
understood circumstances. The Lat-
ter-day Saints are the objects of popu-
lar obloquy. Their institutions appear
to be greatly disliked. The officers are
doubtless influenced by the general
clamor for the application of heroic
treatment to the Saints. They them-
selves have doubtless been influenced 
to some degree by personal prejudices,
and their official conduct, by these con-
ditions, is thrown out of balance.
While their course cannot be sustained
in the light of tfair play, some allowance
should be made on account of the lia-
bility of the human mind to be warped
by influences in conflict with the prin-
ciples which should universally obtain
in courts of law and presumed justice.
Neither would it be justifiable on the
part of the Saints to entertain toward
them, on account of their departures
from their proper line of duty any ran-
corous or vengeful feeling. A spirit
of that character is not in unity with
the genius of the Gospel of peace. All
men are in the hands of a just God,
whose mighty, penetrating power is
capable of analyzing all the motives
which prompt human action, and He
can and will deal with us and them and
all men according to the principles of
eternal justice.
   Upwards of forty years ago the Lord
revealed to His Church the principle of
celestial marriage. The idea of marry-
ing more wives than one was as 
naturally abhorent to the leading men 
and women of the Church at that day
as it could be to any people. They
 shrank with dread from the bare
thought of entering into such relation-
ships. But the command of God was
before them in lagnuage which no faith-
ful soul dare disobey.
   "For, behold, I reveal unto you a
new and an everlasting covenant; and
if ye abide not that covenant, then are
ye damned; for no one can reject this
convenant, and be permitted to enter
into my glory.*	*	*	*	*	*
And as pertaining to the new and ever-
lasting covenant, it was instituted for
the fulness of my glory; and he that
receiveth a fulness thereof, must and
shall abide the law, or he shall be
damned, saith the Lord God."
   Damnation was the awful penalty
affixed to a refusal to obey this law.
It became an acknowledged doctrine
of the Church; it was indissolubly in-
terwoven in the minds of its members
with their hopes of eternal salvation
and exaltation in the presence of God.
For nearly twenty years this continued
to be our faith and practice. Then a
law was enacted against it. Another
twenty years elapsed, and the Ed-
munds law was passed. Nearly forty
years had thus elapsed from the first
revelation of this doctrine, during
which period thousands had lived and
died, firmly believing and solemnly
testifying that it was divine. At great
sacrifice they had obeyed it, and based
their hopes of eternal felicity upon the
promises which the revelation con-
tained. They never dreamed that they
had not a constitutional right to obey
God, especially when in obeying Him
they did not interfere with nor en-
croach upon the rights of any human
being, either man or woman. It never
entered into their minds to suppose for
a moment that man had a right, after
God had given a law to His Church for
its salvation and exaltation, to enact a
counter law forbidding, under severe
penalties, man's obedience to God's 
law. Who could suppose that any
man, in this land of religious liberty,
would presume to say to his fellow-
man that he had no right to take such
steps as he thought necessary to escape
damnation! Or that Congress would
enact a law which would present the
alternative to religious believers of
being consigned to a penitentiary if
they should attempt to obey a law of
God which would deliver them from
damnation! Or that, under a plea of
maintaining a certain form of civiliza-
tion, God's authority to direct His
people how to escape from the abomi-
nable corruptions and evils which are
eating out the vitals of man's much
vaunted civilization, should be dis-
puted and utterly rejected! What is
this "Mormon" problem, so-called, 
and why should it disturb the people?
It is an unpopular religion. But so
was that of the ancient Prophets.
Jesus told the Jews that they garnished 
the tombs of the dead Prophets; but
killed the living ones. They crucified
Jesus and were almost as unanimous 
in their cry to crucify Him, as the peo-
ple and rulers of the United States are
to-day to destroy the "Mormons."
They killed all of His Apostles except
one, and he was banished to work as a
slave on the Isle of Patmos. It is said
they cast him into a caldron of boiling
oil, but he was not killed; and if the
Scriptures are true, he still lives, for
he was to tarry till the coming of the 
Savior. We receive as the word of
God, and so do millions of the human
family, the writings and testimony of
the Prophets who were killed. It is
published by the millions of copies
and sent to the various nations of the
earth, by the very people who would
now seek to destroy us. Jesus, who
was crucified between two thieves, is
now worshiped by millions in Chris-
tendom as the Son of God, the Re-
deemer of the world. The Twelve
Apostles, his disciples, who suffered
such ignominious contumely and deah,
are now designated by the millions of 
Christendom as "The Apostles of the 
Lamb of God," and churches and
cathedrals are called after them, as St.
Peter, St. John, St. Mark, St. Luke,
etc.  It was then the "Christian  prob-
lem"--the same problem though called
by a different name. Was Jesus the
enemy of the people in His day? Only 
as He told them the truth.  "What
evil hath He done?" asked Pilate, the
Gentile Judge. No matter what evil
or what good, vociferated the Jews:
"Crucify him! crucify him!"  What
evil have the "Mormons" done? is
asked, and the cry comes back: No mat-
ter, no matter, let them be destroyed.
   By the circulation of endless slanders
and falsehoods concerning us and our
marriages, wrath and indignation have
been aroused against us in our nation.
The ignorance of the people concern-
ing us and our doctrines and system
have been taken advantage of. Con-
stant attempts have been, and still are
being made to induce the world to be-
lieve that our motive in espousing
patriarchal marriage has been the
gratification of gross sensuality--that
our belief in and practice of the doc-
trine had its origin in licentiousness,
and that the sanction of religion is mere-
ly invoked to furnish greater license for
the indulgence of base passions and
devouring lust. This, as you know, is
the exact antipodes of the truth. But
the world generally do not know it.
Those of them who know how utterly
false are these charges are either so
cowed down by a fierce public opinion
that they dare not speak, or if they 
have the courage to speak are almost
unheard amid the noisy clamor against
us. Thousands upon thousands of
honest people in this and other na-
tions, whose voices, did they know the
truth, would be raised in our favor,
are deceived by these lies and are ar-
rayed against us. This persecution, if
it serve no other purpose, will do
good in this direction. It brings home
to the hearts of the people, as no pro-
testations or arguments of ours ever
could do,  that there is something more
in this doctrine and practice than they
have been led to believe. Reflecting
people will see that there must be a
great principle involved in this, or men
and women would not be willing to
suffer fines, bonds and imprisonment
as they do.
   Is there any necessity for lustful
men and women in this age and nation
to suffer martyrdom to gratify their
passions? Whoever heard of a people
preferring imprisonment and all man-
ner of cruel treatment for the indulg-
ence of appetites which they could
gratify to the fullest extent in popular
ways, especially when the judges upon
the bench, the prosecuting attorneys
at the bar, the juries who bring in
verdicts, point out the way in which
marriage obligations can be discarded
and sensuality be gratified without
risk or without punishment? The
press and sectarian pulpits also echo
the advice. The universal voice is:
Put away your wives, cease to support
them and their children; be as we are,
and you need not be put under bonds,
be fined or be incarcerated in prison."
   Foul desire opens wide her arms and
invites all to her lecherous embrace by
easier paths than honorable marriageand the begetting of numerous chil-
dren to be carefully trained and edu-
cated and made respectable and use-
ful citizens.
   Will the world see this? Every man
who goes to prison for his religion,
every woman who, for love of truth
and the husband to whom she is bound
for time and eternity, submits to bonds
and imprisonment, bears a powerful
testimony to the world concerning the
falsity of the views they entertain res-
pecting us and our religion. If such
noble and heroic sacrifices as men
and women are now called upon to
make for their religion by Federal
Courts do not teach the world the
truth concerning us, then woe to the
world, for nothing but the wrath of
Almighty God will reach it.
   We join with all Saints in invoking
blessings upon the noble men and
women who have exhibited their in-
tegrity to God and His cause, and their
devotion to principle by submitting to
bonds and imprisonment rather than
deny their faith or break their cove-
nants. If anything were needed to
show to the world that our marriages
cannot be reduced to the level of the
vile practices to which our defamers
would drag them down, their heroic


conduct has furnished it. Thank God
that, so far in this persecution, at least
as large a proportion have stood the
test, without flinching or cowering, as
Jesus in His parable of the ten virgins,
intimidated would be ready to meet the
Bridegroom at His coming. Their
names will be held in everlasting
honor in time and eternity, not only as
martyrs for religious truth, but as
patriots who suffered in defense of the
principle of religious liberty.
	Truths, such as God has revealed in
these days, are not established without
suffering and sacrifice on the part of
those who espouse and advocate them.
It was for these truths that we were
driven time and again from our homes,
and were finally compelled to seek ref-
uge in this mountain country, then
known as the American desert. And
now again we are menaced with ruin;
and for what? Whom have we injured?
Upon whose rights have we trespassed?
It can be truthfully said we have not
injured or trespassed upon any. Have
we not, under the blessing of the Lord,
changed these barren valleys into
fruitful fields and gardens? Have we
not established and maintained good
and cheap government in every place
which we have settled? Has not every
man who came into our borders and
behaved himself been safe in his prop-
perty, person and religion? Have not
peace and good order been the fruits of
our presence? To all these we can an-
swer in the affirmative. Have we en-
deavored to force our doctrines or
practices upon any one? Have we in
any manner threatened the peace of our
neighbors or of the nation? We cer-
tainly have not.
	Respecting the doctrine of celestial
marriage, we could not, however much
we might be disposed to do so, teach it
to or enforce it upon, others not of our
[-]aith, without violating a command of
God. We do not stand in the attitude
of propagandists of polygamy. We
never have believed or taught that the
doctrine of celestial marriage was de-
signed for universal practice. The
Lord has made this clear, and recent
events among us have also made it
clear. "Strait is the gate," says Je-
sus, "and narrow the way that leadeth
unto  exaltation and continuation of
the lives, and few there be that find it."
	There appears to be a fallacious idea
abroad regarding this doctrine. It
has been asserted that there was
a design to propagate it outside
of our community, and thus in-
troduce into the United States an
element opposed to the Christian
views of this and other nations. On
the contrary, our Elders have been in-
structed not to introduce the practise
of that principle any where outside of
the gathering place of the Saints; and
they do not preach it abroad to any
extent even in theory, except on occa-
sions when it is called for, or when
they are assailed on account of it. At
such times they respond by defending
it as a doctrine of the Bible and not in-
consistent with the laws of nature. It
should also be understood that the
practice is not generally admissible
even among the Latter-day Saints. It
is strictly guarded, the intention being
to allow only those who are above re-
proach to enter into the relationship.
The practice of the doctrine is not for
extension beyond the Church, and is
even limited within its pale[-] The idea,
therefore that the plural marriage is a men-
ace to the general monogamous sys-
tem is without foundation. This fallacy
is further exhibited by the fact of the
popular antipathy with which it is re-
garded, people outside of our C[-]urch
exhibiting a dosposition the reverse of
favorable to its establishment in other
communities, making the extension of
its practice abroad impossible. Fur-
thermore, being strict believers in free-
will; you Latter-day Saints know that
no man or woman has ever been co-
erced into obligations of that kind,
much less would we desire to enforce
it upon any other class of people.
	But in all these events which are
now taking place we recognize and ac-
knowledge the hand of God. There is a
wise purpose in it all which He will
yet more fully make plain to us. One
thing is clear, the Saints are being tried
in a manner never before known
among us. The faithful rejoice and
are steadfast; the unfaithful fear and
tremble. Those who have oil in their
lamps and have kept them trimmed
and burning now have a light for their
feet and they do not stumble or fall;
those who have neither light nor oil are
in perplexity and doubt; they know
not what to do. Is not this the fulfil-
ment of the word of God and the teach-
ings of His servants? Have not the
[Column 2]
Latter-day Saints been taught all the
day long that if they would remain
faithful and endure to the end, they
must live their religion by keeping
every commandment of God? Have
they not been continually warned of
the fate which awaited them if they
committed sin? Can adulterers, for-
nicators, liars, thieves, drunkards,
Sabbath-breakers, blashpemers, or
sinners of any kind endure the
trials which Saints must pass
through and expect to stand?
If there are any who enter-
tain such a hope, they deceive them-
selves. Upon these sins God has pro-
nounced judgement. No man or woman
who is guilty of any of these trans-
gressions of God's law can stand and
retain His Spirit. They must repent
of them and put them far from them,
or they will be left in darkness, and
misery will be their doom. The Lord
will not be mocked. He will not bear
with hypocrites; but they will be
spewed out. If all who call themselves
Latter-day Saints were true and faith-
ful to their God, to His holy covenants
and laws, and were living as Saints
should, persecution would roll off
from us without disturbing us in the
least. But it is painful to know that
this is not their condition. There are
secret abominations practiced by those
who are called Saints, which the trials
we are now passing through will reveal
in a manner terrible to them. Open
sins are also winked at and condoned
by Presidents, Bishops, Teachers and
parents in a manner offensive to God
and grievous to man. Proper care and
vigilance are not exercised to keep
Wards and Stakes cleansed from in-
iquity and to have transgressors dealt
with. The innocent are thus made to
suffer with the guilty; for the Lord has
commanded that the inhabitants of
Zion must purge themselves from in-
iquity, folly, covetousness and vanity,
and listen to and obey His laws, or they
cannot have His protection. He has
also said that if His people will obey
His laws and keep His commandments,
to do them, not in name only, but in
reality, He will be their shield and pro-
tector and strong tower, and no man
will be able to hurt them, for He will
be their defense. These trials of our
faith and constancy which we are now
passing through will be overruled for
our good and future prosperity. In
days to come we shall be able to look
back and percieve with clearness how
visibly God's providence is in all that
we now witness. Let us do all in our
power to so live before the Lord that
if we are persecuted, it shall not be for
wrong doing, but for righteousness.
	At the present time we may very
pertinently inquire: Why are the peo-
ple of these mountains treated as we
now are? Where in this broad land is
the virture of women so amply guarded
or so jealously protected as here? No
cry of hungry, naked or outraged hu-
manity has ever ascended to heaven
from our borders against the men whom
the courts are now so busy in sending
to prison and treating as criminals.
There was a time in these mountains
when adultery, fornication, whoredom
and illegitimacy were almost unknown.
A woman was as safe from insult in
traversing over our streets and high-
ways as if she were under her hus-
band's or father's roof. Marriage was
encouraged, vice was repressed. Wo-
men were free to form  connections
were sanctified by marriage. But what
a change we now behold! A tide of
evil surges around us. It threatens to
overwhelm us and to reduce us to ruin.
The flood-gates of vice are opened
upon us, and not content with the rush
of this filthy stream into our cities and
settlements, those who hate us would
do more. They would invade our
dwellings; they would destroy our
families; they would loosen every
bond which has held society together;
they would array wife against husband,
child against parent, friend against
friend; they would make every man,
woman and child a spy, an informer
and a betrayer; they would sap the
foundation of faith, confidence and
honor and make every one distrust his
fellow. Satan never wrought greater
ruin in Eden than these enemies of ours
would work in our midst if we would
listen to their blandishments or be
frightened by their threats. And is all
this havoc to be wrought beaause of
our wickedness? No; ten thousand
times, NO. Let those  are so loud
in denouncing us, so active in perse-
cuting us, look around them. Are
there no people but the "Mormons' to
regenerate and purge from sin? Read
[Column 3]
the daily record of black crime which
fills the journals of the land. If the
correction of evil, the improvement of
morals, the uprooting of vice, the re-
pression of violence and crime were
the objects which animate those who
seek to destroy society in these moun-
tains, then we could say in the language
of the Savior: "Thou thyself behold-
est not the beam that is in thine own
eye. Thou hypocrite, first  cast out the
mote out of thy brother's eye."
	We speak to you, a people who have
traveled and mingled much in society
all over the world. You are not ig-
norant of the world, its ways or its
corruptions. You know, therefore,
how great is the beam that is in the
eyes of those who reprove us for the
mote they imagine they perceive in our
eye. We know that from the household
of every faithful Latter-day Saint daily
and fervent thanksgiving ascends to the
God of heaven for having shown them
how to escape from the frightful evils
under which society groans in so-called
civilized lands. Nevertheless, we will
not indulge in recrimination. We sin-
cerely mourn over the existence of the
dreadful sins which are permitted to
flourish and to spread with unblushing
front through the land. As a people
we have lifted our voices in warning
against these sins and against those
who practice them. We shall still con-
tinue to do so. If in return for all this
we are treated with violence and re-
proach, it is no more than our Lord and
Master was before us. We may rest
assured that the predictions concerning
the calamities and judgements which are
about to fall upon the wicked the un-
believing and the unrepentant will all
be fulfilled, as will every word and
promise which the Lord has spoken to
us. But while we warn others, let us
not forget ourselves, or our families.
Let us look well to our own lives and
the conduct and lives of those who be-
long to our households. If we keep
ourselves unspotted from sin. rest as-
sured the Lord will never forget or
forsake us.
	Upon Presidents of Stakes, Bishops
and otherleading officers great respon-
sibility rests. They are placed as
shepherds over the flock of Christ. If
through any neglect of theirs the flock
is injured or destroyed, the blood of
those souls will be found upon their
garments. The Melchizedek and Aaron-
ic Priesthoods confer great power and
authority upon man; they lift man
nearer to God and make him His repre-
sentative. But woe to the men who
use their Priesthood or base purposes,
and fail to use it for God's glory and
the salvation to His children. Far
better for them if they had never re-
ceived it.
	We have been commanded of the
Lord to set our households in order.
Apostles, Presidents of Stakes and
Bishops, have you done this with your
own households? Have you also seen
that the Saints have done the same?
Have you impressed upon the people
under your charge the absolute neces-
sity of purity if they desire the blessing
and protection of the Most High?
Wolves never watched with greater
cunning and more ravenous hunger a
flock of sheep and lambs than the people
of your Wards and Stakes are now be-
ing watched by those who are ready to
devour them. Are you awake to this
danger, and do you take every precau-
tion against it?
	Parents, are you full of fidelity
yourselves to every principle of god-
liness, and do you surround your sons
and daughters with every safeguard to
shield them from the arts of the vile?
Do you teach them that chastity in
both man and woman should be more
highly esteemed than life itself? Or do
you leave them in their ignorance and
inexperience to mix with any society
they may choose, at any hour that may
be convenient to them, and to be ex-
posed to the wiles of the seducer and
the corrupt? These are questions you
will all have to answer either to your
shame and condemnation or to your
joy and eternal happiness. Know this,
that God, in giving us the precious
blessings we possess, demands from
us a suitable return. By receiving
them we are placed under obligations.
If these are not discharged, condemna-
tion inevitably follows.
	We hear favorable accounts of the
action of Primary Associations, Sun-
day Schools, Young Men's and Young
Women's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations and Relief Societies. These
organizations have unlimited opportu-
nities of doing good. If those who
have them in charge are faithful in at-
[Column 4]
tending to their duties great will be
their reward. If we desire the pros-
perity of Zion, we will carefully gurad
and train our young. They come to
us pure and from the Lord. By proper
training we can make them mighty in-
struments for good. But, Superin-
tendents and Teachers of Primary As-
sociations and Sunday Schools, and
Presidents of Young Men and Young
Women's Associations and Relief So-
cieties, remember this, that God will
never bless an unvirtuous people, and
while a flood tide of corruption, de-
structive of all true morality and vir-
tue, is sweeping over the land, we
must erect barriers to stop its con-
taminating influence. You have the
young in your charge. Teach and im-
press upon them by every means in
your power how dreadful a sin is un-
chastity. they are taught to shrink
in horror from murder; but they
should be taught to shrink with ab-
horrence from the next great sin to
shedding blood, and that is unchastity.
	From the Elders who are abroad in
our own and in other lands we hear
generally favorable reports. They have
much to contend with. The world is
waxing worse and worse. Iniquity
abounds. Men's hearts are hardened
against the truth, and the nations are
fast being prepared for the judgements
which the Lord has said He will pour
out in the last days. The Elders are
required to carry the message which
God has sent to mankind to every na-
tion and to warn them, not in anger or
in scorn, but in meekness and humil-
ity, that they may flee from the wrath
to come. To them we say, Be pure in
all your thoughts, words and acts.
Keep yourselves unspotted from every
evil. Avoid all vulgarity of act and
expression. Put away all your light
speeches, and be sober men of God,
filled with the Holy Ghost and the
power of your Priesthood.
	To the Twelve Apostles and their
Counselors we say: Remember the
weight of your high calling in Christ
Jesus. You are called to be His
special witnesses in all the world, to
bear testimony that He lives and
reigns on high, to see that the Gospel
is preached to all the inhabitants of the
earth, and that the earth is prepared
bu suitable warning for the coming of
the Son of Man. How great and all-
important is your calling. It may be
said that the souls of a world are en-
trusted to you. Through your labors
and testimony, either in person or
through other chosen messengers
whose labors you direct, the inhabi-
tants of the earth will be judged. Is
there any law of God, then, which you
should neglect, is there any degree of
purity which you should not reach, is
there any sacrifice which you should
not be willing to make? Can men
with such a calling as yours be other
than holy and yet please our God?
Who among you can neglect the duties
of your high calling to devote time and
care to the world and its pursuits?
We say to you in all truth and solemni-
ty that no one of you can do this with-
out displeasing your God and endan-
gering your salvation.
	To the Saints we say that President
Woodruff, at our last accounts, was in
good health and spirits notwithstang-
ing his advanced age, and as full of
zeal and faith as ever.
	President Joseph F. Smith, our fel-
low laborer in the First Presidency,
though not with us, is actively em-
ployed in the ministry and rejoicing
greatly in the work of God. He is as
ardent, as devoted and as persever-
ing as ever. Were he here, his name,
without doubt, would appear with
ours to this epistle.
	Notwithstanding all that we are now
passing through, our hearts are filled
with joy and peace. We can truly say,
Hosannah to God in the highest. We
know that Zion will not be overthrown
o[-] be made desolate. Every promise
made concerning Zion by the Almighty
will be fulfilled. The only thing which
ever disturbs our serenity is the report
of wrong-doing by those who are called
Latter-day Saints.
	Praying that God will bless and pre-
serve you and lead you in the path of
righteousness, and that you may all
operate together in the accomplish-
ment of the purposes  of God and the
purification of His Church and the es-
tablishment of His Kingdom, we re-
main, with much love,
	Your friends and fellow-laborers in
the New and Everlasting Covenant,
		JOHN TAYLOR,
		GEORGE Q CANNON
Of the First Presidency of the Church of
	Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Salt Lake City, October 6th, 1885.


74	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,		OCTOBER 15, 1885.


"CAPTURED, BUT NOT CONQUERED."
				
INSCRIBED BY A FRIEND'S AFFECTION TO ELDER
	JOHN NICHOLSON, A PRISONER FOR CON-
	SCIENCE SAKE, OCT. 13TH, 1885.
					
"Captured, but not conquered!"
	Triumphant words of truth--
Let them blaze in golden letters
	In the eyes of age and youth!
They were words of mighty moaning,
	As they fell from lips of one
Who had borne the brunt of battle
	Till the vict'ry nigh was won.
Overwhelmed by force of numbers,
	He was carried from the field,
But the brave heart never faltered
	And the strong soul would not yield;
From his lips in tones of thunders,
	While his eyes shot living flame,
Leapt those words of heroism,
	To immortalize his name.
And there rose a shout of triumph
	From his comrades brave in arms,
As they closed their ranks of valor,
	Undismayed by war's alarms;
And they swore with solemn fervor,
	By the God of truth and right,
Ere His cause they would surreneder,
	They would perish in the fight!
Or, if crushed by weight of numbers,
	And to fettered hells consigned,
They would pray that truth might triumph,
	Until lost the pow'r of mind.
And they praised the captive hero
	Who had spurned the tyrant's rod,
Who was "captured, but not conquered,"
	By the foes of freedom's God.
O. F. WHITNEY.


THOUGHTS ON RECENT EVENTS.

	The events which have transpired during the
last few weeks, in and before the courts of this
Territory, and the affairs connected with them,
have stirred to the uttermost depths the hearts
and feelings of every true Latter-day Saint. Brave
men, who quail not at the threats of the officers
of the law, and who cower not at the feet of
judges and rulers, have stood manfully before the
bar and told in eloquent language the motives that
inspired them, and the reason for the hope that
was within them, and have endured with sublime
patience the stinging sarcasms of him whose
privilege it was to pass sentence upon them for a
faith and practice, that could elevate and sustain
them in the hour of severest trial.
	One's belief is actually called into question, and
no man allowed to sit upon the jury who acknowl-
edges himself a believer in the doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
no matter how honorable or circumspect his life
may be, he is at once rejected; yet almost in the
same breath these classical interpreters of laws


and statutes will say, “Belief is all right; it is the
practice which makes the offence.”
	What is a religion worth which consists only in
theory? What saving qualifications does it pos-
sess? Such a religion exsists only in name; it is
not, and cannot be a living, abiding faith, that is
like unto an ever flowing fountain of intelligence
in the human soul. One of the great poets, that
the world professes to admire, and true poets are
thought living oracles, says on this subject,

	“True Christianity depends on fact;
	Religion is not theory, but act."

	The illustrious example of those fearless, un-
daunted, heroic men, who have gone before the
judge for sentence, hot with boasting or pomp, but
trusting implicitly in Israel’s God, will be a lasting
honor, not only to them,but their generations after
them. Their names, and the history of their
wrongs, will be held in everlasting remembrance,
and the principles for which many are now suffer-
ing exile, bonds and imprisonment, will, through
this very ordeal, be all the more vividly impressed
upon the hearts of the youth of Zion, and more
firmly engrafted into their lives.
	Who is there who does not admire a sublime
courage, though he may not possess it? Judges
and rulers may persecute, and scoff and fling vile
epithets at the Latter-day Saints, but if they have
a spark of manhood in their breasts they cannot
help respecting the man who will stand by his
principles and maintain his conscientious convic-
tions, honoring his wives, his children, his people
and his God. There is something tangible in such
a religion as this, something that will appeal to
the hardest heart, as well as to the noblest senti-
ments of man.
	It is sad to see good men and true men cast into
prison, or banished from their homes, but God’s
ways are not as man’s ways, and He has a purpose
to accomplish, which man cannot stay, and He will
cause the wrath of man to praise Him, even as
He has said, and it is for this people to be humble,
obedient and faithful in keeping the command-
ments He has given, and He will bring them off
victorious and establish Zion in its power and
glory, and those who abide in the covenants they
have made will be able to stand when all things
that can be shaken will be shaken.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The office of the Woman's Exponent was re-
moved from the Hooper and Eldredge Block on
September 30th, and is now situated at No. 25 E.,
South Temple Street, second gate from Deseret
News Office.
	Bishop H. B. Clawson was sentenced and
went to prison on Tuesday, September 29th, and
Elder John Nicholson on the 13th of October, for
living with, and acknowledging their wives. Both
these brethren expressed  very decided views in
regard to their belief and convictions,and, like the
two Bro. Browns, of Ogden, have left on record
a testimony that will stand forever, and that all
Israel will honor them for, as well as all men and
women who are governed by principle, however
they may differ in religious views and practices.
	SISTER AURELIA S. ROGERS called to ask that
the item in relation to the first organization of
the Primary, as published in the Dialogue by Sis-
ter L. K. Young, be corrected, as the Primary at
Farmington was the first one ever organized, the
organization being effected on the 11th of August,
1878, and three meetings were held previous to
the organization in the 11th Ward of this city.
We make this correction in order that the facts
may be known, and not a false impression given.
We published the article as it was written, without
making any alterations.
	THE title of the poem inscribed to Bro. Nichol-
son, and published in this issue, were the words
emphatically used by him in speaking in
the 18th Ward Chapel, on Sunday evening, pre-
vious to his being sentenced. They were decided-
ly appropriate, and uttered with intense power; they
seemed to impress forcibly all assembled, and it
is not strange that these words should be sugges-
tive to a poet and a writer, and especially to one
so warmly interested in his welfare, and the princi-
ples involved, as young Bishop Whitney.
	Bro. C. E. JOHNSON'S "Valley Tan Remedies"
are becoming more popular as they are better
known and brought into use. The Essence of
Life we have heard highly recommended, also the
pills and troches. We are always glad to see a
spirit of enterprise among our young people
turned in the direction of home manufacture, and
it is much safer to take medicines prepared by our
own people, than to buy so many patent medicines
from abroad. We believe the Canker Syrup to be
a good preventive against diphtheria, and it
would be well if children were given this canker
medicine, or some other, occassionally, to keep it
from the system.
	SISTER SARAH STROCK of this city is
agent for the Acme Electric Belt, a new
and novel invention, which cures by elec-
tricity, containing a sort of galvanic battery.
She is introducing it throughout the several wards
of the city, and meeting with excellent success.
Those who have tried it, some of them having
suffered from a complication of causes, are well
satisfied with its beneficial effects, and if it proves
to be a relief to some of the ills that flesh is heir
to, it will be a blessing; and there is no nauseous
medicine to be taken, and the simplicity of its
arrangement is in itself a recommendation. Sister
Strock has taken hold of it with a motive to do
good, and intends to travel in the country settle-
ments. She is a faithful member of the Relief
Society, and has been for many years a teacher in
the 17th Ward of this city.
	On Monday morning Elder A. M. Musser and
James Watson, who had each been serving out a
sentence in the Penitentiary for "unlawful co-
habitation," were released from imprisonment,
their time being lessened through the advantage
of the Copper act, and allowed to go at large.
Although to breathe the pure air of heaven must
be a luxury to those so long debarred from that
blessed privilege, yet to be spied upon and not be
able to visit wives and children, who so much need
the protection of husband and father, is little less
than an affliction. On Thursday morning Parley
P. Pratt was released from imprisonment, he hav-
ing had to remain a little longer than he otherwise
would, on account of some infringement upon the
regulations of the Penitentiary.
	Mrs. Mary S. Snow, of the 11th Ward of this
city, has been east gathering up genealogical re-
cords. She left here on the 3rd of September ult.,
via the D. & R. G. Railway, and went direct to
New York; afterwards to Brooklyn, where she
has a sister residing. She has also visited differ-
ent parts of the State of Vermont, Arlington,
Bennington and other places, and up Lake Cham-
plain to St. Albans, and other points enroute, and
visited in Rhode Island, Providence and other
parts of that state. Sister Snow has enjoyed her
journey very much indeed; has everywhere been
well received, among friends, relatives and old
acquaintances, and has returned home buoyant in
spirits, and not at all fatigued bodily. She crossed
the plains coming home by the Union Pacific
Railway. Sister Snow is looking remarkably well,
and for a women over seventy has traveled a
pretty good distance in so short a time as a month
and a week, arriving at her own home in this city
on the 10th of October.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOOD TESTIMONY,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have felt so often of late that I would like to
write something to encourage my sorely tried
sisters, and as I am one with them, and one of the
weakest, I cannot hope to say anything without
the good Spirit to guide me in every word.
	It is indeed a trying time, not for one alone, but
all who are determined to serve God and resist
the wily inducements of that wicked one, who
glories in the downfall of the Saints. Some of
our dear husbands are far away in lonely prisons,
and many weary months must pass ere we clasp
their dear hands in our own again. Others are
nearer, but, like them, are deprived of liberty be-
cause they were too good and brave to turn traitors
to God and to their families. Some are hunted
from place to place as a hound chases down the
wild beast. Noble men have placed the stormy
ocean between them and their persecutors, that
they might accomplish some good, while their
families are scattered far and wide, and to such
wives it is a daily trial not to be near each other,
to comfort, console and bless each other in the
absence of their trusted guide.
	My dear sisters, if we are faithful we need not
fear for the final outcome, but it is our duty to do
all we can to smoothe the rough places and catch
all the bright gleams of sunshine as we pass along
life's stormy way. How my heart aches for every
patient, loving wife, who is thus cruelly deprived
of the society of him she holds dearer than all
others, and it is but natural that her heart should
cling to him, and that it should be lonely and
desolate where he is not. It is his voice that can
quiet her fears, his hand that can soothe her ach-
ing head, and though father, mother, sisters and
brothers are all  near, none, none can fill his place
to her; and if perchance, she is a wife that the
law fails to recognize, her claims are just the same
in the eyes of God and just men, and shame upon
those who would boast a superior position, or try
to make her feel more keenly her trying one. She
must not think for a moment that she is less be-
loved because circumstances keep her isolated,
and if those who seem more fortunate are pos-
sessed of a proper spirit they will lovingly remem-
ber the absent one, and encourage the husband to
do all he can for the happiness of all who have an
equal claim on him. But we must each remember
we have a duty to perform wherever our lot may
be cast.
	We must be humble, and seek God continually,
or we will fall by the wayside. Self-righteousness
must have no place in our hearts. We must not
forget that we are not the only one who is being
tried at the present time, and how often we increase
our weary load by complaining against those who
are doing all they can for us.
	Fault-finding does not enhance our peace of
mind, and it invariably disturbs that of those we
most desire to promote. If we wish to be loved
and trusted, then let us love and trnst in return,
and be sure that the best and truest way of pure
happiness is to suffer wrong rather than do wrong,
and we cannot prove our affection in a stronger
way than by willingly and patiently bearing for
the sake of those we claim to regard so highly.
The day seems dark, and the sky full of black
clouds, but after a while they will clear away, and
then how we will have learned to appreciate the
beautiful sun, which has so long been hid. Our
Father has not forgotten us, He witnesses our
daily sorrow, and will reward us according to our
faithfulness and perseverance and the faith we
show. We have every reason to rejoice in the
principles we have solemnly vowed to defend; and
better a thousand times that we perish in trying to
live, tha nto deny one principle and lose our soul's
salvation eternally.
	God bless and comfort all the faithful, is the
daily desire of 
				Your Sister,
							VIOLET OWENS


[Column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. [-]. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
------	
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	Minutes of the semi-annual conference of
the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake,held
at Bluff, September 21st, 1885, Prest. Jane M
Walton presiding. Present on the stand, with
the officers of the Relief Society, was Sister-
Slade of Burnham Ward, Stake Counselor
Wm. Halls, Bishop Nielson and Counselors
and Bishop Burnham from Burnham Ward.
After the usual opening exercises, the statisti-
cal and financial reports of the several branches
were read; also a letter from Sister E. R. S.
Smith was read and much appreciated.
	The brethren and sisters who spoke were
filled with the good spirit, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of Mormonism. Bro.
Wm. Halls spoke on the sphere of woman,
and felt thankful for this organization.
	Bishop Burnham exhorted us all to remem-
ber the good instructions we had received, and
felt to bless all good people.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few appropri-
ate remarks, and conference was then adjourned
Until March, 1886. Singing. Benediction by
Bishop Nielson.
		JANE M. WALTON, Stake Prest.,
		IDA E. NIELSON, SECRETARY pro tem.
------
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The twenty-sixth quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was
held in the Tabernacle in Brigham city, on
the 8th of September, commencing at 10 a.m.
After singing, prayer was offered by Coun.
Susannah P. Booth. Minutes read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said she felt thankful
that she had the privilege of being present;
thankful that so many enjoyed the same privi-
lege; encouraged the sisters to attend these
meetings. Spoke of the necessity of the secre-
taries making the reports correctly.
	The various reports were then read by the
secretary, Mary E. Snow, also the Resolutions
of Respect to our departed sister, Mary Stark,
were read by Emilia D. Madsen, and accepted
by the assembly unanimously.
	Bishop Tingey had enjoyed himself greatly
by attending the ladies’ conference; had won-
dered at so few being present. Related a cir-
cumstance in the life of the Prophet Joseph
and David Whitmer, showing how the sisters
who attend meeting will gain the blessing and
Spirit of the Lord, instead of those who ne-
glect to come. Said, "Your work and cares
will be lightened by coming together and
gathering strength.” Compared the persecution
of the present day with the Book of Mormon
—how the ancient Saints passed through severe
trials. Said, “We must be faithful, you and I.
Why should we be faithful? That the bless-
ings of God may be poured out upon us.”
Spoke of coming times, and fervently praised
the goodness of God.
	Prest. Snow wished the sisters to be punctual
in the afternoon. Announced the Primary
Fair would be open at noon. Singing, “O
give me back my Prophet dear.” Benediction
by Bishop Tirigey.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer by
Sister Harriet Hunsaker. The condensed
report was read by the secretary, Mary E.
Snow.
	Sister Hubbard,  President of the Relief
Society of Willard City, reported verbally,
and said, “We should put every good desire
into practice; many of us think we have hard
times, but as we progress we shall have all we

[column 2]
can bear. Our Heavenly Father is constantly
watching over us, hence we should try to live
so that we may always have His Spirit with
us.” Said many good things in her gentle,
peaceful way. Prayed the Lord to bless, us
all. Miss Fannie Graehl, Treasurer of the
Stake, read the account of the treasury.
	President E. A. Box: “1 have resolved that
I should spend one half day at least at this
conference. I have not attended many—not
because I consider these conferences of small
importance, but rather otherwise, and thought
that the sisters were more capable of counsel-
ing and instructing each other, being better
acquainted with the different vicissitudes each
one had to pass through. It has often been
said that these organizations are a great help
to the Priesthood, and I am well convinced
thereof. There is one thing sure and certain,
the Lord delights in His servants and in His
handmaidens who wish to learn concerning
His will. The more time we spend in meeting,
the less time we have to contend with the
other influences that surround us every day.”
Encouraged and expressed his appreciation of
the work of the sisters. “The trials that we
are passing through at the present day are
such as should cause every one to reflect—our
young men, our brethren and sisters, it is
true that this life is short, it is true that we
should look more to our spiritual affairs than
to our temporal. We may do many things
that are wrong and think it is right, through
our weakness, this we will be forgiven; but if
we persist and do willfully wrong, we will not
be forgiven.” Bro. Box spoke very lengthy
and with warm inspiration, and dwelt a great
deal on the power of a mother’s influence over
her children. Related an example of a man,
good and true, who went many miles: away
preaching the Gospel. He had a very unwise
wife; and their children are now the bitterest
enemies to the Church, and of another man
who apostatized, but his wife was firm and true,
and taught her children pure and correct
principles; her children are true and staunch
to-day.
	Bishop Jensen, from Bear River City, en-
dorsed what had beea said. “There is a great
deal of work for the mothers.” Spoke of the
signs of the times, and highly appreciated the
good accomplished by the Relief Society.
	Prest. Harriet Snow: “We want to learn to do
our duty properly; we want to understand princi-
ples;we want to work in harmony with thePriest-
hood, not to use an influence against them."
Encouraged the sisters in their good works.
	Sister Olivia Widerborg: “I earnestly ask
an interest in your faith and prayers. I feel 
to live my religion. Let us try to the end of
the journey of life to live so that we, may enter
into the presence of our Heavenly Father.”
	Sister Susannah P. Booth: "I never had
more determination to try and live my religion
than at the present time.” Spoke of the many
duties there are for us to fulfill as mothers, as
members of the Relief Society and as Latter-
day Saints. 
	Prest. E. A. Box stated that it was necessary
that Prest. Harriet Snow should have a new
counselor, and Sister Olivia Widerborg had
been selected.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Prest. of Honey-
ville Relief Society, reported verbally. Said,
“I feel an interest in living my religion; let us
pray that we may be able to keep the com-
mandments of the Lord.”
	Sister Keller, Prest. of Mantua Society, re-
ported verbally, and felt happy to be one with
the Latter-day Saints.
	Prest. H. Snow made closing remarks, and
adjourned conference for three months. Sing- 
ing. Benediction by Bishop Tingey.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN AUTUMN SONG.

The yellow leaves are changing fast,
	Sad winds among the the pine-trees sigh,
Blithe Autumn's reign is well-nigh past,
	And sombre winter draweth nigh.
Ah me, the short and dreary days, 	
The withered bloom of woodland ways,
The silent birds the sunless sky,
The tempest’s wailing voice on high!
But yet, my heart, thou hast confessed
That all God does is for the best.

Look up, then, though the leaves are shed
	And summer birds and flow’rs are gone;
These passing scenes around thee spread
	Are not to rest our hopes upon.
Though skies were bright and breezes soft
When green trees swung their arms aloft,
Why should thy thoughts be sad because
These things are changed by nature’s laws?
Be still, my heart, thou hast confessed.
That all God does is for the best.

Not as we wish, not as we will,
	But as we need Life's joys or pain,
Its toil or rest, God gives us, still
	Blessing the sunshine and the rain.
And when with tears we sometimes cry
For treasures valued once so high,
And think how hard it is to lose
The one dear gift our hearts would choose,
Oh, calm on this assurance rest,
What'er God does is for the best!

'Tis said that in the eagle’s nest
	The mother points a thorn on high,
To wound her young one’s tender breast
	And force the feeble wings to fly.
'Tis so when to some happy home
The thorns of loss or sorrow come,
When joy is changed to sharpest pain
And life seems empty, labor vain;
God weans us so from earthly rest,
And all He does is for the best.
							SUSANNAH J.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued)
	My mother's babe was a little over a month
old when father left with the pioneers. A
little black eyed, rosy cheeked girl, between
twelve and thirteen, had been given to them a
few days previous to father's leaving, whom
they adopted as their own. Her mother had
died on the journey from Nauvoo, leaving a
number of little children, that were taken by
different families. They came from England,
and the father was rather a worthless sort of
man, and seemed to care very little for child-
ren.
	The members of my mother's household
numbered fourteen, including herself. Three
of them were young men who were adopted in-
to father's family—Peter Hanson, George
Roads and Jacob Frazier, and three young
women—Harriet Sanders, father's wife,
Jenette Murray, a cousin of mine, Mary Fors-
green, Lucy and myself and five little brothers
made up her private family. Wm., her eldest,
acted as a guardian, and attended to the wants
of the families under his charge. Brothers
Daniel Davis and James Smithies were his as-
sistants, and helped to raise gardens and pro-
vided the needfuls to sustain life. The younger
boys attended to herding the cows, and they
were occasionally nearly frightened out of their
wits by Indians, who wanted to drive away
their cows. One day my little brother Charley
went out with them and had the misfortune to
lose his only hat; and had to go without for a
time, till he was so badly tanned that he was
usually called the half breed, and when asked
his name would invariably answer, "Charley
half-a-breed." He was only five years old, and
supposed that to be his real name. His hair
was very heavy and nearly black, and his skin
was fair, but after becoming so thoroughly
tanned, no one could believe him to have been
otherwise than dark.
	We had a varied and peculiar experience
from the time that we were left, till the return
of the pioneers. Things looked rather dark,
and to all appearance there was no earthly
source to which we could look. When one
meal was eaten, how the next was to be ob-
tained was something of a puzzle. But when
things looked the darkest, and want seemed
most imminent, some way or other we were
provided for, and relief came sometimes in a
way most marvelous. But to return:
	As I have previously mentioned, the scurvy
was raging in our midst, and a good many had
already died in consequence. Only a very few
potatoes could be obtained at that time of the
year, and for what we did get we had to pay a
high price. I, being among the poorly ones,
was indulged in this luxury, and which I shall
never forget, with the nice tea, which mother
had purchased of Aunt Sabra Granger, it be-
ing superior black tea, that which Col. Kane
had sent her.
	On the morning of May 6th I was delivered
of a beautiful and healthy girl baby, which
died at the birth. Thus the only bright star,
to which my doting heart had clung, was
snatched away, and, though it seemed a need-
less bereavement, and most cruel in the eyes of
all who beheld it, their sympathies were such
that, by their united faith and prayers, they
seemed to buoy me up to that degree that death
was shorn of its sting, till I could say, "Thy
will, not mine, be done." Three weeks of
suffering followed, when I was dressed one day,
but I took cold and was again prostrated, and
lay in a critical state for another three weeks,
a part of that time in a cold clammy sweat,
until everything on me was as wet as though
it had been drenched in cold water, and
death seemed determined to claim me, but I
was saved for a purpose. Before I was able
to sit up, the scurvy laid hold of me, commenc-
ing at the tips of the fingers of my left hand
with black streaks running up the nails, with
inflammation and the most intense pain, and
which increased till it had reached my shoul-
der. Poultices of scraped potato, the best
thing, it was considered, to subdue the inflamma-
tion; it would turn black as soon as applied,
and for all they were changed every few
minutes for fresh ones, it was all to no effect.
By this time I had lost all faith, and patience,
too, and, with a feeling of desperation, I arose,
and, taking the wrap and everything with it,
I threw it with such force that it went into the
fireplace on the opposite side of the room, say-
ing, "There you can stay, for I will never do
another thing for it!" and to my great surprise
I had no occasion to, as the pain and disease
had left me, and from that moment I felt no
more of it. Still there were other obstacles in
the way of my full recovery; though I was free
from pain, I remained in a feeble state for
some time, so that I had to lie down a goodly
portion of the time.
	In the early part of June a merchant, Amos
Davis, brother of Daniel Davis, and Mr. Kim-
ball, brother to the late John Kimball of Salt
Lake, arrived from Nauvoo with goods and
groceries and the best of wines, liquors, etc.
My mother rented them her dining room for a
store, and boarded them. This was an open-
ing as unlooked for as if manna had rained
down from heaven.


LIBERTY.

	Respected friends and fellow citizens, we
have met here to-day to celebrate, in honorable
remembrance, the anniversary of the day our
forefathers entered these valleys, where they


expected to worship God according to His will,
having been mobbed and driven from the
states of this great, free America that boasts
of liberty.
	Men, descendents of the founders o this
great country, who trace their lineage to the
religious fathers, who came to America for the
self-same cause, ridiculed and frowned down
upon because of their desire to perform and
make purer this great American nation, who
are becoming more and more corrupt by their
vileness, by those standing at the head of this
nation, who have trampled the Constitution
under foot.
	What is liberty? It consists of freedom
and privileges; but, do the Latter-day
Saints have these privileges? No. Why?
Because they are doing what is right, and be-
ing obedient to the holy principles which God
has handed down for us to adhere to.
	We see, on the Fourth of July, 1776, that
the "Declaration of Independence and Free-
dom" was assigned to this people, and it was
declared that we should have liberty. But, do
we enjoy these rights? No; they are crushed
and trampled under foot. See the cruel and
unjust laws got out against the Latter-day
Saints, trying to destroy all rights, trying to
put down the holy ordinances that our God
has handed down for us to obey, improving
each and every opportunity they have of im-
prisoning our beloved brothers and sisters, not
even allowing them justice, causing them to
lie in prison, and suffering the unreasonable
punishments which they have no right to do.
Still our noble-hearted brothers and sisters are
bearing these unlawful penalties with patience
and humility of heart, and ever trusting in
that benevolent Father who commanded these
holy principles to be practiced.
	But shall we falter? No; not under such
cowardly laws, which our oppressors assume
the right to inflict upon us. And I would say
to all our brothers and sisters, "Bear nobly on,
For we have the Lord on our side, and we still
look forth to that glorious light which will
bring liberty to all those who remain faithful,
and retain their integrity.
		NANCY A. NEBEKER, Primary Girl.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Notwithstanding the machinations of the
evil one, who seeks to annoy, destroy and tear
down what God has decreed shall be established,
we rejoice in our knowledge of the Gospel, and
feel to lay hold on the prophecy of old, that
Zion will be redeemed, and those who live
near to the Lord can feel the peace, joy and
satisfaction promised to all who serve Him
and acknowledge His hand in all things.
Though we may be called to pass through
deep waters of affliction, still He is near, and
that for to bless and sanctify to us our deepest
distress. To us it is a great privilege to live
and see the hand dealings of God amongst the
nations and with His people, for surely the
Lord is at work, and who can stay His hand?
not man, with all his imaginary greatness that
quickly vanisheth like a cloud of smoke, or a
puff of wind.
	Our meetings are well attended, and a good
spirit prevails. The sisters are filled with a
spirit of prayer and testimony, and the song
of praise ascends to the Most High from our
gatherings, and with one accord. How pleased
and blessed were we. We strive to help the
poor and needy, the sick and afflicted in our
weak way, as the times are hard, and as a
consequence we are far from being rich, except
in the riches of eternity; if we keep the narrow
road in that we have boundless riches.
	Our annual meeting, on the 4th of June, was
satisfactory and encouraging. We were
blessed with our Stake President, Sister Libbie


Benson, and our beloved sister, Adaline Barber,
together with our Bishop and several of the
brethren, and indeed we had a rich treat—a
feast of fat things long to be remembered.
	President and counselors desire to be remem-
bered to all the good sisters of the Relief So-
ciety, and with them I desire to mingle my
voice, and say, "God bless and comfort all the
faithful in God's kingdom."
		Yours in the covenant,
		BETSY M. BROWER, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUTHS FOB GIRLS WHO FLIRT.

	Whatever idea the young girls who practice
street flirting may entertain of their seemingly
innocent pastime, it may be set down as a cer-
tainty, that when a respectable young man
desires the acquaintance of one who may some
day become his wife, he does not go out on the
street and seek her acquaintance through a
flirtation. But, on the other hand, the flirt of
the street, no matter how innocent and fair
her intentions may be, is the last person he
would seek as his life compannion. He desires
purity, without and above suspicion. The
young lady who engages in this kind of pas-
time should bear in mind that she not only en-
dangers her reputation and leaves a stain upon
her good name, but her name is a by-word
among those with whom she flirts, to be ban-
died about in saloons, on the street corners and
in low-down, unholy places in the city, fasten-
ing on her otherwise fair name a stigma or
stain that will follow her years after she sees
her folly and attempts to mend her ways.—
Newark Advertiser.


﻿PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Primary Fair at Goshen, on
the 26th of September, which was very inter-
esting, and a credit to those who had worked
so diligently to bring their various articles of
work for examination, and also to those who
took part in the proceedings of the meeting.
The following will give the readers of this
valuable little paper an idea of the work pre-
pared:
	Baskets made of different materials, knit
and chrochet lace and work of all kinds, hair
and wool flowers,artificial strawberries,mottoes,
quilts, drawings, cushions, rugs and mats of
various styles, also cooking and the produce of
the garden and farm, and rakes, forks etc.
from our little boys.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot, Sisters May Smoot
and Grace Smith visited us. Prest. Annie K.
Smoot gave us some excellent instructions.
There were also songs, recitations, dialogues,
etc., rendered in a pleasing manner by mem-
bers of the Association.
		SARAH ROBERTS, President,
		JULIA M. JASPERSON, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	There are people who would do great acts;
but, because they wait for great opportunities,
life passes, and the acts of love are not done
at all.—F. W. Robertson.
	Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared
with our own private opinion: what a man
thinks of himself, that it is which determines,
or rather indicates, his fate.—Thoreau.
	What men want is not talent, it is purpose;
in other words, not the power to achieve, but
will to labor. I believe that labor, judiciously
and continuously applied, becomes genius.—
Lytton. 
	Were you building a monument to remain


for the ages, how majestic and substantial
would be its construction! How much more
august and solemn is life.—Rev. Dr. R. S.
Storris.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	"Mrs. Olive Wright, of Denver, Colo., is ap-
pointed State Commissioner in place of Gen.
Sickles, who served last year."
	Mme Jules Ferry, the wife of the French
Premier, is the great-great-grandchild of
Charlotte Buff, the 'Lottie' of Goethe’s
'Werther.'"
	The bust of Elizabeth Fry, which was pre-
sented to the Friends’ School at Providence,
R. I., by Mrs. Ella J. Wheeler, was unveiled
on Tuesday, Sep. 29th, with appropriate cere-
monies.”
	“At the Copenhagen University examination
there were seven lady candidates, all of whom
passed. Five of these ladies took the mathe-
matics and natural science degrees, and only
two the philological."
	Helen Jackson, four days before her death,
wrote a letter of thanks to the President for
his efforts to do justice to the Indians, and
asked him to read her book on the Indian
question, 'A Century of Dishonor."
	"The municipal authorities of Madrid have
extended the right of suffrage to women. Even
in Spain, one of the most conservative coun-
tries of Europe, the leaven of equal rights has
been silently working beneath the surface, and
now shows itself by this unmistakable sign.


Patents were issued to women inventors
during the week ending September 22nd,
1885:
     Elizabeth M. Baldwin, Sparta, Wis., Swing
Chair convertible into a Swinging Hammock.
     Caroline Boyce, New York, N. Y., Book-
Cover or Protector.
     Jane A. Clother, Cumberland, Wis., Kettle-
Drainer and Steam-Ventilator and Conductor.
     Mary J. Flynn, Cleveland, Ohio, Underwaist
for children.
     Jennie D. Gidley, New York, N. Y., Under-
garment.
     Ella Goodwin, Chicago, Ill., Washing Ma-
chine.
     Rebecca J. Jacobus, Oakland, Cal.  Absorb-
ent Cowl for the chimney of hydrocarbon
burners.
     Hattie B. Pritchard, Arnoldburg, W. Va.,
Extension Bed.


PROVIDING FOR THE LAST OF THE
				FAMILY.

	The grant of 6,000l. a year for Princess Beatrice was on
a recent night carried by 357 votes to 38. These figures
are slightly below those recorded on the last occasion, when
rather more than three years ago the Duke of Albany’s
marriage portion was adopted by 387 to 42 votes. In both
cases the grant was of course a foregone conclusion, and
few will be disposed to question the justice of dealing as
liberally with the last of the Queen’s children as with her
Royal sisters.  But the prospect foreshadowed by Mr.
Gladstone will awaken very different feelings. “In future,”
said the Premier, “the Government proposed as regarded
the members of the Royal family under the Sovereign that
the question of the provision to be made should be referred
to a Parliamentary Committee for consideration." Against
any step in this direction the most vigorous opposition
should be made. John Bull’s purse may be well lined,
but if the Queen’s grandchildren are once allowed to dip
into it, the drain will be tremendous. That the bargain
asserted to have been made between the Crown and the
country has proved an advantageous one for our Princes
and Princesses, a glance at the results will show. In addi-
tion to her Majesty's Civil list of [pounds] 385,000 per annum, the


following annuities are paid to members of the Royal
family:— 
		Prince of Wales		-	-	- 	£40,000
		Princess of Wales	 	-	 -	-	10,000
		Crown Princess of Prussia 	  -	   -      8,000
		Duke of Edinburgh   	-	 -	 -	25,000
		Princess Christian of Schleswig-Holstein 6,000
		Princess Louise (Marchioness of Lorne)   6,000
		Duke of Connaught	-	-	- 	 25,000
		Duchess of Cambridge	    -	   -	   - 	   6,000
		Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz	  -	   3,000
		Duke of Cambridge	- 	 -	-	 12,000
		Duchess of Teck	-	- 	-  	- 	   5,000
		Duchess of Albany	 -	  -	  -	  -	   6,000
	With the annuity of £6,000 now voted to Princess
Beatrice, the total of these grants reaches £l58,000; and
here Parliament and the people may well decide to cry,
"Hold, enough!” Let the new constituencies see that
candidates are pledged to vote against any more Royal
grants.


HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.

	Cheese Biscuit.—Two ounces of butter, two ounces of
grated cheese, two ounces of flour, a little cayenne pepper,
and salt. The paste should be rolled out very thin, then
cut into pieces four inches long and one inch broad, baked
to a very light brown, and sent to the table as hot as
possible.

	Sweet Pickles.—Prepare the fruit as for preserving, tak-
ing out the stones. For seven pounds of fruit use half
that weight of clear brown sugar, a pint of vinegar, and an
ounce each of cinnamon stick, blades of mace, and whole
cloves. Boil the vinegar, sugar and spices, and pour this
liquid over the fruit. Allow it to stand for forty-eight
hours. Pour off the vinegar and place it over the fire again.
When hot, put in the fruit, and boil all together until it is
clear and transparent.

	Tomato Chow-Chow.—Chop up half a bushel of green
tomatoes, a dozen onions, and half a dozen green peppers.
Sprinkle on a pint of salt, and let them stand twelve hours
before draining. Cover the fruit with vinegar, and boil it
slowly for one hour. Drain off the vinegar and pack the
pickles in jars. Then take two pounds of sugar, two table-
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of cloves, one
of pepper, half a cupful of mustard, one pint of grated
horse radish, and vinegar enough to mix them. When
boiling hot, pour the liquid into the jars, cover them tightly
and you will have pickles that will last as long as you
wish.
	According to an exchange, dry powdered salt will keep
moths out of carpets. The salt should be sprinkled freely
over the carpet, particularly along the edges, followed by a
thorough sweeping. This should be done about once a
month in moth time, and there will be no trouble from the
destructive insect.	
	To take grass stains and wheel grease stains from colored
as well as white materials, rub a little clean lard on the
spots, and let it remain over night. In the morning, wash
the spots with cold water and common soap, rinse well and
dry them quickly, and press the garments with a hot iron.
If the color is likely to change by using soap, then use
naphtha or alcohol instead, and water.


IN MEMORIAM.

	"Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
		A shadow on those features fair and thin.
	And softly, from that hushed and darkened room,
		Two angels issued where but one went in.”

	DIED, suddenly, of heart disease, at 23 minutes to nine,
on the morning of October 2nd, Miss Cornelia Pearl Cook,
at the residence of her mother in this city. Deceased was
born June 5th, 1843, at La Fayette, Onondaga County,
New York, and was the second daughter of Dr. Wm. J.
and Sophia Cook.
	Miss Cornelia, as she was generally called, was the sister
of Miss Mary E. and Miss Ida I. Cook, well known in Utah
in the capacity of teachers, who have obtained marked
celebrity in the profession. 								
	Miss Cornelia came to Utah in 1876, and was for some
time afterward a resident in the Lion House, where her
sister, Miss Mary Cook, was located. The family of
Brigham Young was very much attached to her, and indeed
she possessed those lovely, endearing qualities of heart and
manner that would draw out the tender sentiments of af-


fection from those with whom she mingled, and she always
seemed to take great delight in visiting there and in refer-
ing to the time when President Young was alive, as a period
when she had fully enjoyed the society into which she was
providentially thrown. She was one of those delicate,
sensitive creatures that required the bright sunshine of
life, and the care and attention of loving friends and com-
panions—an invalid from childhood, watched over with the
most tender solicitude of parents and sisters, yet ever
patient and cheerful, though suffering severe bodily pain,
and always thoughtful of the feelings and rights of others.
She was a beautiful character to study, always gentle, pas-
sive and pleasing, when suffering agonizing pain. Miss
Cornelia loved to do good to others, and though all her
life she carried a burden of sorrow and pain, she was more
appreciative and grateful than many whose paths are strewn
with roses. She was a devoted and faithful daughter, and,
during the last three weeks of her life watched and tended,
night and day, her afflicted mother, who was lying very
dangerously ill. All her thoughts had been for her mother,
totally forgetful of self, until she sunk down exhausted, and
departed to that "beautiful land of rest,” where the weary
cease from suffering, and where all is joy and peace.
	May He who watches over all, and who knows the needs
of all hearts comfort the stricken mother, the loving sisters
and the dear children who mourn for their affectionate
"Aunt Cornelia." 
	The funeral services were conducted at the residence, on
Sunday morning, Oct. 4th, at 10 a.m. Singing by the
quartette, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, Miss Louie Wells,
J. D. Spencer and H.G. Whitney. The first hymn “Rest.”
Prayer by Apostle H. J. Grant. Singing, "Unveil thy
bosom faithful tomb." Appropriate and consoling remark
were made by Bishop Whitney, after which the touching,
exquisite hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee," was sweetly
rendered, and Presiding Bishop, Wm. B. Preston, offered
the closing prayer.	
	Choice and fragrant flowers were artistically arranged
upon her coffin—the tribute of loving friends. She looked
serenely beautiful as she lay at rest in her last sleep, a sweet
smile overspreading her lovely, angelic features. 
	E.B.W

	We the officers and members of the Eighth Ward Y.
L. M. T. A. do tender these Resolutions of Respect to
the memory of Sister Sarah Helen Stringfellow Morris, who
departed this life September 28th, 1885, aged twenty
years, nine months and ten days, after a short illness of the
fatal disease.  Diphtheria—the fourth and only remaining
child within a week, leaving the parents prostrate with
grief. She was loved and respected by all her associates,
and a faithful member of our Association.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst our dear sister.
	Resolved, therefore, That we tender our deepest sym-
pathies to the family and friends of our departed sister,
praying that the comforting influence of our Heavenly
Father may rest upon them and fill their hearts with peace,
that they may bow in humble submission to His will, feel-
ing that He doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also, that a copy be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication, and a copy be inserted in our
paper, entitled Progress, and recorded on the minutes.
	S. A. HAWKINS,
	LUCY CHAMBERLAIN, Committee.
	LUCY OAKEY
	M. P. YOUNG, President.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				OBITUARIES.

	DIED in Malad City, September 5th, 1885, Rachel Ann
Thomas, beloved wife of Benjamin L. Thomas, and
daughter of Richard and Mary E. Jones of South Wales,
England. Deceased was born in Brigham City, May 30th,
1855, and was thirty years, three months and five days old.
She leaves a devoted husband and two sons, one seven
years, and the other four hours old, with her parents and a
large circle of friends and relatives to mourn her loss.
Quiet and unassuming, she was beloved by all who were
acquainted with her. She had been through the Temple of
the Lord, and had done work for the dead, and now free
from sorrow and pain, has gone to meet with those that
will welcome her for the good work she has done for
them.
	She was a faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A., always
on hand when wanted, either in work or means. Was also
First Counselor to the Primary Association; and although

[Column 2]
we miss her company among us, we know it is her gain.
May her virtues be emulated by those of the Associa-
tion she has left behind. We sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and we pray God our Eternal Father to
comfort their hearts and dry their tears.

	Rest, in sweet and peaceful slumber,
		Till the trump of God shall sound,
	Till the earth, with joyous echoes,
		Waking millions all around.  

	Then arise with joy to meet Him,
		Crowned as queen among the guests.
	Having on the wedding garment,
		Entering into promised rest.

	Though thy labors here were shortened, 
		And thou wert called from us away,
	Thou art laboring with the faithful,
		With those that trod the narrow way.

	And we shall again behold thee,
		Blooming with immortal life—
	Farewell sister, mother dearest,	
		Noble, loving, faithful wife.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Having, through the providences of God, been called
to part with Sister Rachel Ann Tnomas,
	We, the officers and members of the Y. L. M. I. A., do
sympathize with Bro. Benjamin L. Thomas and family in
their loss.
	Resolved, That in all the sorrows and bereavements of
life, in parting with our dear sister, that we strive to follow
her noble example, and fill our mission here, that we may
be worthy to meet her when we are called to pass away.
	Resolved, That we place these Resolutions of Respect
on our record, and send a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication.					ANNE SAWYER.

	It is our mournful duty to record the demise of our be-
loved sister, Mary Stark, daughter of Andrew and Inger
Mineer. She was born on the 8th of December, 1838, in
Landskrona, Sweden; was married to Paul Stark 1859.
Embraced the Gospel the same year. Emigrated to
America 1860; arrived in Utah 1861, and finally settled in
Brigham City, Box Elder Co., 1866.
	She was a loving wife and mother, a faithful, zealous
Latter-day Saint. She obeyed and practiced the law of
the new and everlasting covenant, and leaves a record of
energy and unselfish devotion to her religion and family
that will ever be held in loving remembrance by all who
knew her. She was the mother of twelve children, of
whom five have gone before her.
	She was a woman possessed with rare abilites of practi-
cal usefulness and perseverance in well doing. She began
her public career in the year 1877, as a teacher of the
Relief Society, which office she held until the reorganiza-
tion of said society—the 13th of March, 1878—when she
was called and set apart as President for the Relief Society
of the Third Ward of Brigham City; also on the same day
as Second Counselor to the Stake President, Harriet Snow.
	She was appointed President of the Silk Association, in
which, by precept and example, she took an active part.
The following year she was called to act as President of the
Scandinavian Relief Socity. 
	All these positions she filled with honor and integrity, 
and in the whole of her long and useful career—from the
time she embraced the Gospel till the day of her death—
she was ever found, in word and deed, a faithful and a
wise counselor. She was truly one of the leading spirits
in the hive of Deseret, and will be greatly missed by her
husband, children, and all with whom she was associated.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the sisters of Box Elder Stake,
do acknowledge the hand of God in the death of our be-
loved sister, and feel that we have lost in her a wise coun-
selor, an energetic leader and a true friend, whose comfort-
ing words and cheerful spirit have often brought consolation
in the hour of trial and sorrow to those who now mourn
her loss. 
	Resolved, That we, in behalf of the different Associa-
tions, desire to pay this tribute of respect to our departed
sister, and tender our deep felt sympathy to the bereaved
family, and pray that our Heavenly Father, who doeth all
things well, may comfort and bless them with strength to
walk in the footsteps of their departed dear one, and that
that spirit, that brings peace and consolation, may always
be with them in the hour of sorrow.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be read in our stake
conference, and in the ward where she presided, and also

[Column 3]
that a copy thereof be presented to the family, and sent to
the EXPONENT for publication.
			HARRIET A. SNOW, Prest. of Stake,
			SUSANNAH P. BOOTH, First Coun.,
			OLIVER	WIDERBORG, Second Coun.,
			EMILIA	D. MADSEN,	Cor. Secretary.


Prof. A. Andre has issued a small pamphlet
containing the titles of his musical compositions,
also testimonials of his ability as a teacher of
music and languages, and some of his essays, and
a story in English. The story is entitled “Celes-
tine,” and all the articles are well written.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses' and In-
ant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer, Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL 14. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1885. No. 11.


WHAT WOMAN’S LOVE CAN DO.

	Edward the First, King of England, was dangerously
wounded in the "Holy war" by a poisoned arrow. Queen
Eleanor, his wife, without regard to her own danger,
sucked the poison from the wound. This good action made
her greatly beloved, and when she died grand crosses were
erected in remembrance of her wherever the hearse, that
carried her remains, stopped to refresh the attendants.
Only one remains, and it is in a ruinons condition.
	I sing of love, exalted and supreme,
	The love of woman and a regnant queen;
	Elena, loving wife of Edward, one
	Their kingdom England, and their royal home.
	Well may such love as hers call from above
	A smile from HIM, whose attribute is love!
	Such love will surely ope the door of heaven,
	And for its guerdon frailties be forgiven.
	His wife was near when he to battle went,
	Watching with heart and eye the grand event,
	When lo! her loved one to her tent was borne—
	By poisoned arrow had his flesh been torn!
	A "Leech” declares there must some one be found,
	One who will suck the poison from the wound;
	The royal life was ebbing fast away—
	Oh, awful cloud o’er that eventful day!
	But who will cast their life on such a dye?
	A very angel, listening, hovers nigh;
	"Teach my unpracticed lips how to proceed,
	And I, in God and love, will do the deed!”
	"Edward, my husband, God a strength will give,
	My loving soul, that England’s king may live."
	His arm enfolds her, and a deadly groan
	Tells his deep anguish in the words, "My own!”
	The deadly gash she clasps with her sweet lips,
	From out the wound the rancorous poison strips;
	"He lives! he lives! Edward, my king, will live,
	Thro' God’s blest aid his life restored, I give!"
	Words are all vain, and language spoils to tell
	Such act angelic—but ’twill ever dwell
	In England’s archives; yes, that noble queen
	Still lives on history's page with holy sheen.	
	And when this queen had passed her life’s last day,
	Where the hearse staid, that bore her form away,
	A cross was raised, to tell the sacred dust
	Had for one night been held in holy trust. 
	Centuries are fled, long years have come and gone,
	Yet still one cross remains in mouldering stone,
	And all who pass still gaze with tear and sigh;
	Remembering her, whose love can never die.
	Immortal are such deeds, they know no death,
	They are of heaven, fed by heaven’s breath;
	Illumin’d missal of th’ historic page,
	That keeps the volume bright from age to age.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 13, 1885.


[Column 1]
			HUMILITY.

	"Humility is eldest born of virtue,
	And claims the birth at the throne of heaven."

	What! claims its birth at the throne of hea-
ven! And dare we do otherwise than to
humble ourselves before our Creator? Alas! I
am afraid that the hearts of many of us are
far, far from being meek and humble. Wealth
and position cause many of the weaker mind-
ed of our sex to forget the example Jesus has
set before us, or the commandments that He
has caused to be written out for us to follow
after. In the language of the Bible, “Every
one that is proud in heart is an abomination to
the Lord. Though hand join in hand he shall
not be unpunished.”  Again, “Better is littl

[Column 2]
with righteousness than great revenues without
right.”	
	Then dare we assume haughtiness and false
pride when we have such an assurance that it
incurs the displeasure of our Father in heaven?
Quoting from Matthew, 18th chapter, “At the
same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying:
Who is the greater in the kingdom of heaven?
And Jesus called a little child unto Him, and
set him in the midst of them, and said: Verily
I say unto you, except ye be converted and be-
come as little children, ye shall not enter into
the kingdom of heaven.”
	Then how important it is that we do as He
bids, and humble ourselves even as unto a lit-
tle child. Yes, it is actually necessary for us
to cultivate humility of character, in order
that we may be ever pure and holy. If wo
will do this, it will not only please our Father
in heaven, but we will appear much more re-
fined, cultivated and original.
	"Please know, humility of heart
	Does to our sex new charm impart.”
	Who of us had not rather meet with a person
with a pure, sweet, humble spirit, than one of
those cold, haughty natures, that seem to be
always saying, “Don’t touch or come near, I
am better than you!”  Such a one may dress
and flaunt, but they never seem beautiful.  A
good, magnanimous disposition is worth far
more than haughtiness brought on from conceit
of one’s own worth. We cannot be wafted to
heaven in chariots of gold, but instead, must
lie down in our grave with a meek, prayerful
spirit, or we will not be accounted worthy to
enter the courts of heaven.
	In these critical times how necessary it is
that we, as women of Zion, as mothers and
wives of men holding the holy Priesthood,
should lay aside our worldliness and love of
wealth and display and set the example of hu-
mility before our children, that we may not be
the cause of their going astray.
	Walking along the streets in the city, the
prophecies spoken of in Isaiah, 3rd chapter,
are most forcibly brought to mind—the fulfil-
ment of them concerning the women of Zion
in the last days are plainly to be seen. Even
little children will make such a display of
themselves that it grieves one’s heart to be-
hold. The question will arise, What are their
mothers thinking of? Children apparently
ten or fifteen years older than what they really
are. All too early they have learned to love
display of dress, and carry themselves with a
haughtiness not becoming to them. Who has
taught them this? Does this please our Hea-
venly Father? We know it does not. Then
let us beware and take heed, lest we be tread-
ing on miry grounds and sink deep ere we find
out our mistake.
	Sisters, the most beautiful jewels a women
can adorn herself with are humility, virtue,
modesty and intelligence. They contain no
dross, but are the real genuine metal. Adorned
with these, the most homely face will reflect
forth the soul within, until it appears really
beautiful.	 IDA.


[column 1]
	A FEW EVENING REFLECTIONS.

	The wicked have brought sore trials upon
us, but woe! woe! to them by whom they come.
While we, a few of God’s chosen ones, are
striving to obey God’s divine laws, and keep
His commandments, the sinners in Zion delight

[column 2]
﻿in persecuting, robbing and heaping, all man-
ner of iniquity upon God’s chosen ones. But,
“blessed are ye when men shall revile you,
persecute you, and say all manner of evil
against you, falsely, for my sake, for great is
your reward in heaven.”
	Many of us are struggling with poverty and
trials of various kinds, but this should not pre-
vent us from seeking eternal riches. We should
seek to obtain the most favorable position for
perfecting and elevating our lives and charac-
ters. As Saints of the most high God, this is a
duty we owe to ourselves, to society and to our
God, through whom we derive our being. We
should endeavor to become intelligent beings,
growing in grace, and in the knowledge of the
truth of the divine Gospel. The most illiterate
may be elevated, sanctified and ennobled by
the Spirit and the divine word of God. If
the love of Christ dwells in our hearts, we will
not be content to keep a low level, and will not
associate with those who will have no influence
to increase our aspirations after knowledge or
holiness. May we not unite with the ungodly.
The wicked are wholly absorbed in the things
of this life; they forget the claims of their
Maker, and think only of self-gratification.
The pure in heart will not pursue such a course,
but will set an example, and influence to win
the ungodly from selfish aims and sensual in-
dulgence, to higher motives and purer joys.
We are living in a most solemn period of
earth’s history; the divine judgments are again
to be poured out upon the world; the prophet
declares that God’s people are not in darkness,
and the day of wrath shall not overtake them
as a thief.
	We should be Saints of most serious thoughts
and earnest prayers. The pure and undefiled
religion of Jesus Christ satisfies the cravings
of the mind, ennobles the aspirations and puri-
fies the heart. When the love of Christ is
formed within, the hope of glory and the true
joyous life of the soul begins. Those who feed
upon the bread of life will become strong and
vigorous to labor for God’s kingdom and for
their fellow men. God’s word declares that
our Savior is soon to come in the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory; we are ad-
monished to watch and pray for His appearing.
The ministers of the various sects are teaching
that the reckoning day of God will not come
for thousands of years, and while the world is
wrapped in darkness and wilful unbelief, the
night of gloom is fast approaching.
	Let us, who are of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, be sober and upon
the watch tower. By the intensity of our faith
and the purity of our love, let us show we be-
lieve in God the Father and His Son Jesus
Christ, who is soon to act as Judge, our King
and law-giver. When He comes He will re-
ward us according to our works; to those who
have been faithful it will be said, “Well done,
good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of
thy Lord.”
						M. HOLDEN.
	Parley’s Park.


" 'Brattleboro' in Verse and Prose," a volume
compiled by Mr. Cecil Hampden Howard, of
'the Astor Library,' New York, will be issued
early in November from the publishing rooms
of Frank E. Housh, of Brattleboro'. It will
contain selections from Mrs. Helen Jackson,
Fanny Fern, Wallace Bruce, General J. W.
Phelps, Colonel T. W. Higginson and others."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)
	When the pioneers were twenty-five miles
from the Elk Horn, they met some traders
with wagons and pack mules, loaded with furs,
on their way to the settlements, and Ellis
Evans, who complained of ill health, returned
with them, bringing some letters. One from
father, dated Sunday, April 18th, stated that
he, like the majority, was suffering from severe
cold, and was worn out, having found no
chance to rest, as yet, but they had no thought
but to go ahead in the name of the Lord God
of Israel.
	The following interesting extracts are from
a letter written by a sister of Brigham Young,
whom my mother’s widowed father,Roswell G.
Murray, married in the State of New York,
previous to their hearing of “Mormonism.”
She was a dear friend of my uncle, Gould
Murray, and wife, who were then living in
Rochester, and had corresponded with them
ever since she left them to go to Kirtland. This
letter or copy was dated at Omaha, Winter
Quarters, July 5th, 1847:

“DEAR GOULD AND LAURA:
	After so long a time, I take up my pen to
address you, which I should do with much
more pleasure could I feel an assurance that
my communication would ever reach you.
However this may be, I feel that I must write,
and trust an over-ruling power to convey it to
you.
	I know you must be anxious to learn some-
thing about your brother and sister and their
families; this information I intend to give, as
the overwhelming cares of life seem to prevent
them from writing themselves.
	Wm. Murray and Vilate, with their families,
are all alive and well, as far as I know. Wm.
started for Missouri two weeks ago, taking his
wife and daughter and little son with him. He
expects to stay through the summer and fall,
in order to get something together for the
journey to the mountains the ensuing spring.
They have had dreadful sickness in their
family since they left that part of the country
—every one of them have been at the very
gates of the grave, but the Lord has delivered
them from death, and they live to praise Him.
I saw Wm. at a meeting the day before he
started; his soul was like a watered garden; he
rejoiced in the God of his salvation, and praised
the Lord that he was counted worthy to suffer
affliction for His name’s sake, realizing, if he
suffered with Him, he should reign with Him.
*	*	* 	His eldest daughter, Jennette,
lives with Vilate and calls her mother, as she
may with great propriety, and enjoys the love
of God in her soul from day to day; indeed,
their house is a perfect Bethel. (If ever a
woman was blessed it is Vilate; the Spirit of
the Lord seems to be poured out upon her
without measure, and her tongue is like the pen
of a ready writer, while she pours out her soul
in blessings on her household and her neighbors.)
Oh! that you could both be here for one week,
you would know, indeed, the reality of what I
write.
	Helen was married to a young man by the
name of Whitney, one year ago last February.
*	*	Mr. Whitney went with the pioneers,
and left Helen with her mother. He was dis-
tressed to go and leave her just as her hour of
trial was coming on, but duty called and he
must go. When her time of trouble came, she
was very sick, but very patient. It seemed as
though the Lord was teaching her a great lesson.
She at length gave birth to a beautiful little
daughter, but mother and child could not both
live, and she was destined to yield up to death

[Column 2]
the dear little object on which she had doted
with her whole heart. You know how natural
it is for our hearts to cleave to earthly objects,
and how easy it is with the Lord to blast every
ray of comfort, that we may seek our all in
Him. Helen’s affection is indeed a savor of
life unto her. She sunk into the will of God
with all her heart, and her soul was so filled
with the joy of heaven that she enjoys rather
than suffers her bereavement. How I should
love you to see her and all the family.
	(Vilate is now nursing her seventh son,
Solomon.		*	*	She never enjoyed
life before as she does now; she is often filled
with the spirit of prophecy in such a manner
as shows the power and mercy of the Great
God, and astonishes those that have known her
in former years. She is not the poor, despond-
ing Vilate, that scarcely dared hope for salva-
tion. no, no! but she is that being on whom the
candle of the Lord shines continually.)  Jennette
is a great comfort to her as a housekeeper.
They are all striving with one consent to make
the port of endless rest.
	Brigham and Heber, with nearly two hun-
dred of chosen men, left this place on the 14th
of April for the Rocky Mountains. We heard
from them by way of the fur company, when
they were fifty miles from this place, since
which, we have heard nothing, nor do we ex-
pect to until we see them, and that may be a
long time, or it may be this fall. They will
probably go till they find a place where we
can rest for a little season.
	About the 10th of June a company began to
collect at a place called the Elk Horn, about
twenty miles from here.	*	*	By
the 20th there were five hundred and seventy-
three wagons ready to start; but having some
business to come back for, two men and two
women started, but had not traveled many
miles when they were beset by three Indians,
who intended robbing them. They were un-
armed, and the Indians had rifles; one of the
men had lingered behind, which left the other
alone, but he did not choose to give up his
horses, and struggled manfully with two In-
dians, while the one that stood looking on drew
up his rifle and shot him. They were so
frightened at what they had done, that they
fled into the woods. The young man, whose
name was Jacob Wetherbee, died the next
morning.
	This was the 20th, and the next day the
company moved on. The wagons went four
abreast, and some that were there declared it
the grandest sight their eyes were ever blessed
with. Their wagons were all neatly prepared,
and everything for their comfort that could be
obtained, but yet they will suffer enough.

	We are here on the banks of the Missouri
River.  	*	The Omahas are the most de-
graded and worthless race of beings that ever
my eyes beheld, but the Lord can bring them
up, for it is easy with Him to do whatsoever
seemeth Him good.
	We do not suffer anything from fear of the
Indians, for we know that for their sakes we
are suffering all these things, and we are sure
that the Lord our God will not suffer them to
destroy us. There has been great destruction
of life, both with man and beast, since we left
Nauvoo, but none of these things move us
while we are keeping the commandments of
our Lord and Master, for we know that whether
we live or die we are His. If this was to be
our home for a few years, it would soon be-
come a delightsome place; but we may not
abide here; we must seek rest in a far distant
land. Some of the Missourians are constantly
using their influence with the Indians to have
them kill the “Mormons,” but we trust in the
Lord they will prevail. The brethren that
remain here have planted seeds of all kinds,
and certain it is that the blessing of heaven

[Column 3]
attends the labors of their hands. It is indeed
cheering to every heart to see every kind of
vegetation growing as though they were upon
a race to see which would out-do.
	There has been but two steamboats here this
season; this makes the river appear rather
lonely, except when the fur boats are scudding
down; seven were seen at once, yesterday; we
hailed them with joy—I mean with our eyes,
for it looks so lonely to see no raft upon the
water.	*	Our people have an excellent
grist mill here, which may cost some thousands
of dollars. It does a first rate business.
	I should like to tell you how many hundred
houses we have built, but have not lately ascer-
tained. In March there were about eight
hundred, and many have been built since.
Some are very good log houses, and others
about the medium, and many poor indeed, but
better than none. The land is far from being
level here, but the hills are really beautiful—
far more so, to me, than level land could be.
	If you could sail up the river and take a
peep at our town, you would say it was roman-
tic and even grand, notwithstanding the log
huts. The season has been thought rather
backward, but at present is very fine.	*	*
	I had a hard fit of sickness last fall, after I
wrote you from Farmington. I did not reach
the camp until the latter part of November,
and have seen pretty strait times through the
winter, as hundreds of others have, but have
got along with it all, and am very comfortably
provided for. I am satisfied, though I am
alone in the world, and all I ask of it is to get
comfortably through it; I am not disposed to
hurry out by any by path but I wait the
leisure of my Lord. I believe my sun will
set in peace. I do not love the world, nor the
things of the world, and am sorry that so many
of our people have such a hankering after the
vanities of life. There are all sorts of beings
among us, and I know not how long it must be
so.	*	*	We commit all things to
Him whose right it is to reign, and we know
assuredly that everything will work together
for the good of those that love and put their
trust in Him.
	My health is tolerably good while I take
care of myself; my work is nearly done in this
campaign; I must live easy, or I cannot live at
all.	*	  If this should ever reach you, I
beg that you will not defer writing.
	Now wishing you to be wholly the Lord’s in
this world and in that world which is to come,
I bid you farewell.”
						FANNY MURRAY.


LEGEND OF THE BEAUTIFUL HAND.

	There was a dispute among three ladies as
to which had the most beautiful hand. One
sat by a stream and dipped her hand into the
stream and held it up; another plucked straw-
berries until the ends of her fingers were pink;
and another gathered voilets until her hands
were fragrant. An old, haggard woman pass-
ing by asked, “Who will give me a gift, for I
am poor?" All three denied her; but another
who sat near, unwashed in the stream, un-
stained with fruit, unadorned with flowers,
gave her a little gift and satisfied the poor
woman. And then she asked them what was
the dispute, and they told her, and lifted up
their beautiful hands. “Beautiful, indeed,”
said she when she saw them. But when they
asked her which was the most beautiful, she
said, “It is not the hand that is washed clean
in the brook, it is not the hand that is tipped
with red, it is not the hand that is garlanded
with flowers, but the hand that gives to the
poor is the most beautiful,” As she said these
words, her wrinkles fled, her staff was thrown
away, and she stood before them an angel from
heaven with authority to decide the question
in dispute. And that decision has stood the
test of all time.—Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO PATRIARCH L. D. YOUNG,
	  	OCTOBER 19, 1885.

Another year has passed! again we find you,
	Still patiently content to watch and wait,
And relatives and friends come to remind you
	The day returns, and you are seventy-eight.

Aged and young and infants pass before you,
	Into the beautiful, the blest abode;
While your dear angels lovingly watch o'er you,
	And gently lead you on in life's rough road.

How many cherished ones are fondly waiting,
	To welcome you with joyous, rapturous bliss,
In that dear home which you, anticipating,
	Are almost wedded to e’en more than this.

How many faithful ones on earth will mourn you,
	When thro' the small, dark vale that lies between,
Kind angel messengers have softly borne you,
	Into the purer life, the fairer scene.

So shall it be, for kindness winneth ever
	Such love and friendship as are felt for you;
Whether in life or death, your heart will never
	Fail to receive its measure, full and true.

			Affectionately,
									LULA.


A PASTORAL.

The summer sun beat fiercely down,
	And, as I toiled beneath its rays,
A shade of sadness stole around,
	And weary seemed life's busy ways;
And, then, while sterner thoughts uprose
	Against life burdens that we bear,
A far off voice the silence broke,
	A song came on the sultry air.

Still toiling on, I listened, too,
	Forgetting sorrow in the spell
The singer wrought, for health and joy
	Its every cadence seemed to tell;
Listened, while down the hidden road,
	The unknown singer nearer drew,
And raised my eyes anon to see,
	When he, at last, should come to view.

Around the turn of road he came,
	And in full sight across the way,
With broad brimmed hat and blue checked sleeves,
	He sang upon his load of hay;
Something about his heart and her,
	Were all the words that I could hear,
But 'twas enough, his voice revealed,
	Unconsciously, a joy sincere.

As cheerfully and leisurely
	His willing span went down the road,
As though they, too, enjoyed the song,
	My spirit missed its weary load,
And I was wond’ring to myself.
	What was the secret in his heart—
So full, so sweet, so plentiful,
	That even others shared a part.

His heart and her! had he just won
	To his true heart the sweetest, best?
Or was it that within their home.
	Had come a wee dear little guest?
I wondered this and fancied that,
	Yet never could I truly say
What made me blest through joy of his,
	Who sang upon his load of hay.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Oct. 2nd, 1885.


[Column 1]﻿
		CHESTNUT TIME.

	The frosty October and early November
days remind me of the nutting season in dear
old New England. Oh, the fun and frolic of
rambling off into the woods, away through the
hilly pastures, with a jolly crowd of boys and
girls, baskets in hand, and supplied with a
lunch for the day, all bent on having a gay
time and coming home well laden with nuts, to
help while away the winter evenings. Can I
ever forget the merry peals of joyous laughter
which echoed and re-echoed among the hills,or

[Column 2]
the sighing and moaning of the tall pines that
seemed to rebuke our merriment and temper it
with sentimental thoughts. But the boys,
those dreadful, mischievous, rollicking boys,
never seemed to listen, or heed the voices in the
trees, but teased the girls unmercifully, and
refusing to shake the trees for nuts, unless they
would consent to being kissed, which, of course,
the girls wouldn’t do for anything, and so they
would chase them here and there until they
could corner them, when submitting graceful-
ly was the wisest course to pursue; and besides,
how could we go home with empty baskets?
and the boys were obstinate. And even when
the boys would climb the great handsome trees
and shake down the heavy, sharp, prickly
burrs, we were even more frightened at them
than before, for if you ran under the trees to
pick them up, they would shake away with all
their might, and the great chestnut burrs
would fall on you until, you would feel as if
you were just covered with sharp prickles.
Many innocent little flirtations have been
carried on under the chestnut boughs, that
served for pastime then but left an aching
void in the impressionable heart of one partici-
pant, which perhaps the other party concerned
in the affair never even dreamed of.
	Sometimes, however, it has happened that
the attachment of a life-time has begun in the
woods, when the children were out nutting.
Romantic little incidents of this kind in the
youthful experience of boys and girls often
glow with tender passages, that are forever
stamped on the human heart, and when one
sits musing on an autumn day, and hears the
wind whistling and the dry leaves flying hither
and thither, and circling into great round piles,
here and there, and making a perfect carpet
of matting under one’s feet, it is sure to bring
back some of the little episodes in one’s past
life that have left their impression upon the
tablets of memory, forming a perfect picture.
	Imagine a cold, crisp November day, and
a thickly clustered wood of tall chestnut trees,
the branches loaded with great rough burrs,
and a merry group of boys and girls, with
bright sparkling eyes, and rosy cheeks and
lips; chatting and laughing as they toss and
turn the fallen leaves hunting for chestnuts,
while the brave-hearted and fun-loving
boys climbed the trees and sent down showers
of great rough burrs all over and around the
girls below. All in good humor, and radiant
with delight, they are filling their baskets with
the nuts, and casting sly glances and carrying
on little flirtations meanwhile.
	As the day advances, almost unwittingly,the
boys and girls divide up into groups of two or
three, and the loud talking and general con-
versation gradually softening into lower tones,
until the falling of a chestnut burr, now and
then, as the branches sway hither and yon
in the autumn wind, makes one start
and turn, because of the quiet that has settled
down upon the happy, childish party.
	Finally a clear, cheery voice calls out that
the sun is near setting and it is time to go,and,
reluctantly,the little crowd gather up their well
filled baskets and turn their faces homeward.
	The boys, edging up towards the girls, take
their baskets and help them, so kindly, over
the rough places, and lift them down from the
rail fences they have to climb, that divide the
pastures on their way. At length, tired, and
their fingers smarting with pain from the burrs
they have handled, they reach the lane that
leads to the village; and now they begin to
think of separating, and the good nights are
being said as the sun in resplendent magnifi-
cence casts a halo of light over the carelessly
arranged group, as they stand with faces West-
ward, gazing away into the distance, instead
of into each other’s eyes. What a pretty
tableaux they make in the light of the setting
sun, their faces radiant with hope and joy, the

[Column 3]
careless abandon of their toilettes after their
day’s sport in the woods, and the queer varie-
ties of baskets, loaded down with the brown
nuts, covered artistically with gay colored
autumn leaves.
	There were pleasant thoughts in the hearts
of these boys and girls, that had come with
the day and the pastime, and they had begun
to learn the first lessons of love, and which of
us would say it is not passing sveet?
 
	"Their love in early infancy began,
	And rose as childhood ripen'd into man."
					 		AUNT EM.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	He is never without dignity who avoids
wounding the dignity of others.
	“Considering one’s own weakness is a great
help to gentleness in dealing with others.”
	There is speaking well, speaking easily,
speaking justly and speaking seasonably.
	He who can change his religion has none to
change. Those who prefer philosophy to
Christ never knew Him.—Spurgeon.
	A good deed is never lost; he who sows
courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants 
kindness gathers love. 
	Pleasure is a shadow, wealth is vanity, and
power is a pageant; but knowledge is ecstatic in
enjoyment, perennial in form, unlimited in
space, and infinite in duration.
	“Character is a mosaic which takes a life-
time for its completion, and trifles, the little
things of life, are the instruments most used
in preparing each precious stone for its
place.”
	There is nothing more wretched, mournful
and damnable in the eyes of God than the
ministry, if it be sought from impure motives,
and administered in an impure spirit; but
nothing more blessed in the eyes of God, if
the battle be fought in the manner enjoined
by our Captain.—Augustine.
	"Love must have expression, or it will die.
It can be kept forever beautiful and blessed as
at first, by giving it constant utterance in
word and act. The more it is allowed to flow
out in delicate attentions and noble service,
the stronger and more satisfying and more
blessed it will be. The house becomes home
only when love drops its heavenly manna in it
fresh every day; and the true marriage vow is
not made once for all at the altar, but by loving
words, helpful services, and delicate attentions
to the end.”
	“To be able to look cheerfully and hopefully
through clouds of poverty and distress is an
accomplishment bestowed by nature upon
every true and brave woman; and, no matter
how poor or humble her home may be, the
magic power of smiles can brighten its shadows
and lighten its cares. Upon the troubled mind
of a feeling husband a wife’s smile falls like a
sunbeam on a flower. And how much more
beautiful it makes the face that wears it than a
frown! When a wife and mother, forgetting
sorrows and hardships, smiles away her tears,
there is a loveliness in the act that speaks, to a
man’s heart more eloquently than words.”


﻿“Mrs. Lida Meriwether,the Southern poetess,
says, in the Woman's Magazine, that the por-
trait of John Stuart Mill at the Watts gallery
in New York ‘looks like nothing under the
sun but a nice old lady, who has brought her
knitting and come over to spend the afternoon
with the folks.' "


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER	1, 1885.


[Column 1]
		﻿LAW AND MARRIAGE.

	The agitation throughout the United States, and
indeed in some other parts of the world, concern-
ing the religious principles and institutions of the
people of Utah, to one entirely unprejudiced,must
seem, to say the least, uncalled for, and certainly
in those who have correct ideas of religious free-
dom, it must awaken earnest thought upon the
subject. When we look back upon the early
settlers of this far-famed country, and recall the
struggles for freedom and religious liberty, made
under the most trying circumstances, and by
strenuous effort and determined will; it seems in-
credible that only one hundred years should
elapse after the establishment of that dearly-
bought independence,until the same sort of tyranny
and persecution for religious belief, which our
forefathers suffered, should exist in this boasted
land of liberty, the asylum for the oppressed of all
nations.
	It may, perhaps, be argued that men are not
punished for belief, and yet it is true in many ways;
disfranchisement is punishment, and to many it is
severe. Ostracism from society is punishment;
to some it is actual suffering, and in ways that are
too numerous to mention here,“Mormons”are pun-
ished for belief only, without ever having broken
or infringed upon any law of the land.
	For years past, at every session of Congress,
new measures have been introduced for the ex-
press purpose of restraining “Mormons” in their
faith and practice,and to hinder their conscientious
convictions of the truth of those principles that
were practised in ancient times by men who walked
and talked with God.
	Marriage is as much the privilege of woman as
of man, and the commandment given to our first
parents was as imperative upon Eve as upon
Adam, and it has never been revoked. But men
have changed this command to suit their own
ideas, and have denied to woman, through their
established systems, the privilege of bearing
children. Maternity may be justly recognized as
the strongest attribute of woman’s nature, yet
custom and man-made laws have hindered hun-
dreds and thousands of women—we might even
say an innumerable number—from enjoying the
precious boon of motherhood. Shut out from
honorable marriage, they have not been able to fill
up the measure of their creation, or to realize the
fulness of the blessing of offspring, the supreme
joy of being a mother. Lonely and unloved they
have lived and died, without ever satisfying the
yearning for connubial companionship, and the
soul’s more intense longing for children to call
one’s own. The vast majority of women are too
pure in their nature ever to condescend to any
conditions except that of marriage, and would
prefer death to dishonor, and therefore live on
lonely and often desolate, using their time and
talents, as opportunity offers, in doing good and
promoting the welfare and happiness of others.
	It is always commendable to do good to others,

[Column 2]
but every individual born into this stage of exist-
ence has a duty to himself or herself, an object in
life above the simple fact of existence, and what
is there so lofty and sublime as to give life to the
immortal soul, that is, in so far as men and women
are the actual authors of life. To bestow life, a
life that can never perish, is worth all the suffering
and sacrifice the mother can make.
	And yet, in this enlightened age, we hear that
there are too many children being born. Does
not our Heavenly Father know how to carry on
His own work in the peopling of this world that
we inhabit. All who believe in the supremacy of
God must acknowledge this. Then why should
men change the order of the Almighty? Because,
as the Scripture says, “They are altogether gone
astray.” Women have not had power in their
hands to change the laws and customs, and can-
not, therefore, be held accountable for not fulfill-
ing duty, the same as men are; their delicacy
and the established rules of society and propriety
are such that women are not free agents in these
matters. One of the greatest writers and poets
has said,
	“Man's love is of man’s life a thing apart,
	'Tis woman's whole existence.”
If this is not really,it is partially true, at any rate;
and knowing this, how incomplete is the life of
single women. We are not arguing that plural
marriage is for all men, not by any means, for
only the very best men, with the highest motives
of action and the most sublime principles of life
ought ever to undertake such grave responsibili-
ties. This marriage question is an endless sub-
ject, but suffice it to say, that if womanly women,
who have the reverence for motherhood that God
has implanted in their nature, were to be honor-
able wives there would be a large proportion
over seven to each good, moral, virtuous, upright
man.
	However, Congress has decided to settle this
vexed question of plural marriage without regard
to the parties most interested,and deprive women,
who desire honorable marriage and homes of their
own, of that blessed privilege which God intended
all the daughters of Eve to enjoy. If Congress
takes upon itself such a heavy responsibility, there
will be a terrible reckoning “some day,” for all
those who have taken part in or consented thereto.
	It is already noised about that Cullom is prepar-
ing another anti-Mormon bill, so rabid, severe
and obnoxious, that even some of the most bitter
enemies of the “Mormon” people think it an ex-
treme measure, and one that will work very great
evil. The Utah commission have made their an-
nual report, and advised more severe punishment
for those who live with and recognize the wives
that they have most solemnly covenanted to love,
cherish and honor. Imprisonment, or punish-
munt, however severe, cannot touch men’s con-
sciences, and God has not revealed this principle
to His chosen prophet in this day and age to be
cast aside as a thing of naught. He had a pur-
pose in it, and that purpose will be accomplished,
if fifty-five millions of people have decided
against it. It would be amusing if it were not
such a serious subject, to read the newspaper
comments throughout the world on the condition
of things in Utah, they are so wide of the mark
and ridiculous. The following is an instance:
	“Mormon teachings from the pulpit are univer-
sally for first, boycotting all persons except Mor-
mons;”	*	*	*	then	goes	on with other as-
sertions equally false, and calculated to produce
the impression that there is no respect for law or
order observed. There is less bitterness mani-
fested even by those who have had to submit to
the most trying ordeals than one could suppose;
and as to posing as martyrs, men who are im-
prisoned because of having obeyed a divine law
with an honest conviction that they were further-
ing the purposes of the Almighty, are martyrs to
principle, and cannot, in any true sense, be re-

[Column 3]
garded or ranked as criminals, and there is a
time coming when this matter will be adjudicated
by a much higher tribunal than the Supreme
Court of the United States, for judgment is in the
hands of God, who will “reward every man ac-
cording to his works, whether his deeds be good
or evil.” “God will not be mocked,” neither can
men trample upon His laws with impunity. Al-
ready many so-called Christians, who once be-
lieved implicitly in the Bible, are throwing aside
the Old Testament, or regard it only as a fable or
romance, because it sustains patriarchal marriage,
and prophesies destruction, desolation, etc., and
no doubt ere long the New Testament will contain
too much truth for them, especially in its references
to the twelve sons of Jacob, the lineage of the
Savior, and other similar matters.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	DR. E. R. SHIPP makes a specialty of practis-
ing and teaching the art of obstetrics. The
present term of her school closes December, 1885,
and another begins on the 2nd of January, 1886,
when new students will be received on the most
favorable terms. For full particulars communicate
with Dr. E. R. Shipp, personally, or by letter, No.
18, Main Street, Salt Lake City.
	MRS. H. AMELIA F. YOUNG returned on
Saturday, October 31st, from a visit to some of
the Eastern States. Mrs. Young left the city on
the 27th of June last to visit relatives, friends and
acquaintances, and has traveled quite extensively
in the east, visiting Buffalo, New York, Boston,
and many other places. She returns in good
health and spirits, well satisfied with her "summer
out."
	A SISTER who called on us recently from St.
David, Arizona, gave a very interesting account
of the Relief Society of that place, under the
presidency of Sister Maria McRae. The Society
are preparing to put up a good sized house, in
which meetings can be held; the foundation is laid
and the adobies are made, and considerable means
has been already made through the industry and
perseverance of the sisters, and it is expected
that they will have a Fair,which will be sufficiently
elaborate to raise means to furnish the building.
This is quite an undertaking for the sisters in a
small place,and where everything is so new. They
deserve very great credit for their energy and en-
terprise.
	ON Monday morning, October 19th, Sisters
Sarah M. Kimball and Elmina S. Taylor of this
city, and Sister Aurelia S. Rogers of Farmington
left this city by the Utah Southern train to visit
the associations in the southern part of Utah Coun-
ty. Arriving at Santaquin, they held a con-joint
meeting of the Y. L. and P. A. The next day
they visited Goshen, where they held two meet-
ings, one with the Y. L. and the other with the
Primary. On Wednesday they visited Payson,
where they were joined by Sister Elizabeth How-
ard of Big Cottonwood, and they held three meet-
ings, one with the Relief Society, one with the Y.
L. and one with the Primary Association. On
Thursday morning Sister E. Howard joined Sister
M. W. Snow at Spanish Fork for the purpose of
visiting with her the Relief Society and associa-
tions in Emery Stake. The other sisters visited
Salem, and held two meetings there, one with the
Y. L. and one with the Primary. The following
day they went to Spanish Fork—Sister Mary John
and Annie Smoot had come over from Provo
—where they held three meetings, all numerously
attended. The Primary there they found to be a
very superior one. Saturday they went to Spring-
ville, and held a meeting with the Relief Society
and Y. L. The sisters enjoyed their visit very
much indeed, and no doubt they accomplished
much good among those they visited by their
counsel and encouragement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	Synopsis of semi-monthly meeting, held Sep.
5th, 1885, Counselor Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Singing, "O my Father," etc. Prayer by Coun-
selor B. W. Smith. Singing. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Minutes of Y. L.
from the 20th and 11th Wards, also P. A. from
21st and 20th Wards.
	Sister Zina rejoiced to meet with the sisters after
such a long absence, and referred to the beautiful
ideas she had noticed in the minutes from the as-
sociations. "Our children are like flowers, and
they will not grow up without cultivation, and we
need the Spirit of God with us daily, that we may
bring them up in an acceptable way." Made many
interesting remarks.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor and S. M. Kimball each
spoke a short time, and gave a few items of their
trip through Bear Lake valley.
	Sister B. W. Smith expressed her views on the
times, and her impressions that the times would
grow brighter.
	Sister Zina referred to the privileges the Saints
enjoy in the Temple, and the necessity of purity
of life, in order to secure the blessings of the
ordinances in the house of the Lord. Gave excel-
lent advice to mothers in regard to the dress of
children, and exhorted them to set good examples
before them. Spoke of the Hospital, and reported
its present condition and needs; urged the sisters
to send fruits, jellies, etc., and related some in-
teresting anecdotes that were applicable to her re-
marks.
	Sister E. H. Woodmansee and Sister Jane
Fowler bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister E. B. Wells thought the sisters would
cultivate themselves by speaking and praying in
the meetings whenever they had an opportunity.
Urged the mothers to pay special attention to the
company their sons and daughters associated with,
of the dangers to which the young are now ex-
posed, and the great interest she felt in the deport-
ment and cultivation of the youth of Zion. Sister
Mary Silver bore a powerful testimony.
	Sister Zina made closing remarks, and told the
congregation that Brigham Young had said the
true Saints would never have any trial greater than
this people had already passed through. Singing.
Benediction by Miss Alice Jenkins.

	Synopsis of semi-monthly meeting, held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
Oct. 3rd, 1885, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer by Prest. Horne, and singing
again, Prest. Horne read the resignation of Miss
Alice Jenkins, as secretary, and a motion was
made to accept it, she having served faithfully
for some years, and resigned now only on account
of removing from the city. Minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted, and minutes of Y. L.
from 10th and 20th Wards, and P. A. from 20th,
5th, 11th, 16th and 21st Wards were also read.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in which
she alluded to the trials through which the Saints
were passing, and the necessity of faithfulness.
Said she was proud of the brethren who had stood
up before the courts and borne a faithful testimony;
illustrated her remarks by Scripture quotations,
and brought up some good examples.
	A sister it the congregation made some remarks,
bore her testimony, and said how much she had
enjoyed her recent visit to the Temple.
	Sister Sinah Bishop spoke of the trials through
which the Saints are now passing, and bore testi-
mony to the truth of the principle of plural mar-
riage.
	Sister Dyer spoke a short time and broke forth
in the gift of tongues, Sister Bishop giving the in-
terpretation. Sister Elsmore bore a faithful testi-
mony of the Gospel. Singing, "The Spirit of
God," etc. Some other sisters bore testimony
and made good remarks. Sister Jane James spoke

[Column 2]

powerfully in tongues, and the interpretation was
given by Sister Bishop.
	Prest. Horne made some closing remarks, and
felt there had been much of the good spirit in the
meeting. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, "Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah," etc.
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Semi-monthly meeting, held Oct. 17th, 1885,
Prest. M. Isabella Horne presiding. Singing,
"Arise, O glorious Zion." Prayer by Sister E. B.
Wells. Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."
Minutes of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of Y. L. A. from the 12th and 20th Wards,
and P. A. of the 20th, 10th and 5th Wards. Prest.
Horne proposed Miss Jane Smalie as Secretary
of these meetings, which was unanimously
carried.
	Sister E. S. Taylor, the first speaker, gave an
interesting account of her visit to the General
Conference at Logan, and alluded to the excellent
sermons of Moses Thatcher and Erastus Snow.
	Sister H. M. Whitney spoke upon the present
condition of this people, the fulfillment of the
prophecies; gave some of her own experience,
and said she often thought we should exercise
more charity towards those who are being tried.
	Counselor B. W. Smith expressed her desire to
see the young people active in the organizations;
thought it was good for them to stand up and
speak; thought we ought to encourage them all we
could, and made other good remarks.
	Prest Horne then requested the sisters in the
congregation to occupy the time, and Sisters Tay-
lor, Kimball, Eva Young, Fowler, Watmough
and Mortenson spoke upon the principles of the
Gospel and bore testimony to its truth.
	Prest. Horne spoke a few minutes of the events
transpiring among the nations, and the final
triumph of the Saints. Meeting then adjourned
for two weeks. Singing, Doxology. Benediction
by Sister Watmough.


TO THE PUBLIC.

	Not long since, accompanied by a friend, I
visited the Deseret Hospital, the home for the sick
and afflicted. Thinking that an account of my
visit might be of interest to all sympathizers of
suffering humanity, I will pen a few words relating
to it.
	We were met at the door by a pleasant, nice ap-
pearing lady, who afterwards introduced herself
as Mrs. Jennie Whipple, and as she had urgent
business on hand, she ushered us into the sitting
room, and then left us to our own thoughts and
observations. Everything seemed in proper order,
but the most beautiful ornament the room con-
tained was a poor little lame orphan child, sitting
busily employed in looking over pictures. Strange
to say, before we left, we found that the child was
perfectly contented and happy—and not so strange
either, when I reflect back on the kind and loving
demeanor the Matron exercised to watch him.
	Later on, as we wended our way from room to
room,we found the same neatness and order that
characterized the sitting room prevailed elsewhere.
Everyone was as comfortable as could be expected.
I could not but exclaim, mentally, "God bless all
the noble women of Zion who are working so
zealously to support so worthy an institution." It
is a cause all sisters should take an interest in.
	Methinks the President, Officers and Matron
should have our support in every way that we can
give it, to aid them in this great work.
	IDA HOAG,


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SYLVESTER, Michigan, Oct. 22nd, 1885.
DEAR SISTER:
	It always affords me joy to commune with those
who have obeyed the Gospel in its fulness, have
been made partakers of that Holy Spirit, which


flows on those who strive to live by its teachings
Those only can realize the same who are in pos-
session of the same spirit, and when I address a
few lines to those who are in connection with this
Church, it seems to me like writing home, for my
heart and feelings are with them and all their
works, and when I read this worthy little paper,
the EXPONENT, it fills my heart with joy to see how
the sisters are progressing in the cause and king-
dom of God on this earth, which is never to be
thrown down nor given to another people.
	Dear sister, I have been a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for ten years,
but never had the privilege of gathering with the
Saints. I have always tried to live a true, faithful
Latter-day Saint, although deprived of the associa-
tion of any one of the Saints. I am alone, but
feel that God is with me. I know this is the work
of God; it comforts His children, and makes them
acquainted with one another, if they never see
each other, and it causes us to love one another.
It is a glorious work, and though we may be tried
in every way, let us be firm and pray for an in-
crease of faith and firmness, and if we are united
all will be well; we will be able to come off more
than conquerors, for the promises of God cannot
fail.
	Often, when alone, meditating on the sisters of
Zion, I ask myself, "Will I ever have the happy
privilege of mingling with the Saints of God?"
It seems a long time since I had that privilege,
but my heart is with the Saints; their feelings and
hopes are mine, and often, when thinking of these
glorious principles in that little paper that comes
to me, I find the same feelings and words I think
of, and it makes me feel happy to realize that
there are some who have the same hopes I have.
I am trying to live my religion all I can,but I have
no one to give me a word of encouragement or in-
struction, but God alone; I am very thankful for
His loving kindness to me. I want to come home
to Zion, for I have a work to attend to in the holy
Temple of the Lord. I shall come to Zion the
first chance I have.
	I have felt in trouble about the Saints there, but
I know God is with them; He is at the helm, never
fear; when the cup of iniquity is full, He will then
lay bare His arm and come out of His hiding
place and set His people free.
	I pray God to bless you all, and give you His
Holy Spirit to enable you to bear the trials of the
present crusade and live humble and prayerful.
May God bless the worthy sisters, is the humble
prayer of
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		JULIA T. PALMER.


PATTY SESSIONS. 

[Continued.]
	(On the 29th and 30th of March, 1847, Sister
Sessions speaks of having planted seeds of
various kinds, and beginning to make a garden.)
	Every one who knows anything of our so-
journ in Winter Quarters must remember how
delighted we all were with the idea of having
"garden stuff," after having been so long with-
out this sort of food, and suffering, as many of
the people had, with scurvy and other ailments,
in consequence. To those unacquainted with-
these matters it might seem a trifling affair,
but not so to those who had been deprived of
the blessing of vegetable food.
	(Sister Sessions alludes to many little
"spiritual feasts," or meetings, in which the
gift of tongues and interpretation, as well as
prophecy, were given to comfort the sisters in
the midst of severe trials through which they
were passing.)
	April 1st, she writes that she was with
Apostle Orson Pratt's wife, Sarah, in her con-
finement, and spent the remainder of the day
in visiting and attending to the sick, adminis-


[column 1]
tering to their temporal and spiritual needs.
Then she writes of having, given pork, corn
meal and other things, to help some of the
pioneers who were preparing for the journey to
the Rocky Mountains.
	On the 6th of April, 1847, Sister Sessions
attended the conference held at Winter Quar-
ters, a time long to be remembered by those
assembled on that occasion, so full of interest
to the Saints, when the conference adjourned
sine die. The following day most of the
pioneers started out on the journey. On the
8th Parley P. Pratt, one of the Apostles, arrived
at Winter Quarters, on his return from a mis-
sion to England. 
	Friday, the 9th, she writes, "Most of the
Twelve have gone out with the pioneers. Sun-
day, the 11th, went to meeting; Elder Parley
P. Pratt preached, giving us a synopsis of his
journey and of his mission to England. Tues-
day, the 13th, visited Sister E. R. Snow; en-
joyed ourselves very much; the Spirit of the
Lord was with us."
	Wednesday, the 14th, she writes, "The
Twelve returned on Monday from where the
pioneers were encamped, and have started
again this morning for the mountains. Elder
John Taylor, one of the Twelve Apostles, came
home from England last night, neither Elder
Taylor or Elder Pratt are going with the
pioneers. Thursday, the 15th, Louis Robinson
arrived last night, and brought me a letter
from Windsor P. Lyon, Sylvia's husband. Re-
ceived a visit from Sister Leonard, Lamb and
Miller." Sister Sessions writes of the scarcity
of provisions, and what hard work it is even
to get a little corn meal. "Sunday, the 18th,
Porter Rockwell and others leave to go on and
join the pioneers. Wednesday, the 21st, Pere-
grine and my daughter Sylvia and her child
came. I was almost overcome with joy and
gratitude to God for our preservation to see
each other again. The next day my son
David came, and I was almost overjoyed to
have my children, from whom I had been separa-
ted, around the table once more with father
and mother all rejoiced together. While
Sylvia was with me, we enjoyed ourselves to-
gether very much indeed.
	"On Sunday, the 25th, Elder John Taylor
preached; he had just returned from a mission
to England. After meeting we called on Sister
Nobles and Sister Ashley. Monday, the 26th.
Bro. Major is taking our portraits. Visited at
Sister Pearce's with Sisters Mary Ann Young,
Vilate Kimball, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Eliza R. Snow and others, and in the evening
we had a good meeting, in which we enjoyed
much of the Spirit of the Lord. Wednesday,
the 28th. Visited with Lucy W. Kimball,
Frances Swann Kimball, Laura Pitkin and
others. Friday, the 30th, Sylvia and I visited
at Brigham Young's with several of his wives.
This visiting among the sisters and having
spiritual meetings was what kept many from
being cast down and giving way to their feel-
ings during those days of anxiety. Tuesday,
May 4th, Sylvia packed up her things to return
to Nauvoo. Bro. Anson Call came down from
Punkaw." Then she speaks of Sylvia being
detained on account of the wind blowing so
they could not cross the river, and of a visit
to Sister E. R. Snow, who wrote some verses
as a memento and comfort for Sister Sylvia
Lyons.
	TO MRS. SYLVIA LYONS, BY MISS E. R. SNOW.
		Go, thou loved one, God is with thee,
			He will be thy stay and shield,
		And fulfill each precious promise,
			Which His spirit has revealed.

		From thy father and thy mother,
			Who are twined around thy heart,
		Also from thine elder brother,
			Thou art called a while to part.

		But thy husband will caress thee,
			And thy sweet, angelic child,

[column 2]
		With her growing charms, will bless thee—
			Thus the hours shall be beguiled.

		And thy younger brother, David,
			With his harmless, social glee—
		With the heart and hand of kindness—
			Often times will comfort thee.

		And the Saints of God who're banished
			From their country and their home,
		Who, for Jesus' testimony
			In the wilderness now roam,

		Will, with prayers and supplication,
			Plead thy cause before the throne
		Of the great Eternal Father,
			Where thy works of love are known,

		Guardian Angels will protect thee,
			And the spirit's still, small voice
		Will, from day to day, direct thee,
			Therefore let thy heart rejoice.

		O my Father! thou that dwelleth
			In the upper courts of light,
		Open Thou the path before her,
			Guide, O guide her feet aright.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	MENAN, BINGHAM CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking you would like to hear from our
Primary in this far away northern settlement,
I will pen a few lines.
	Our Primary was organized December 30th,
1884, Sister Annie A. Stephens, President; with
Sisters Harriet Beebee and Hannah Byindton,
as Counselors; Sister Elizabeth Beebee, Secre-
tary and Treasurer. Since that time we have
been striving to do our duty to the best of our
ability. We hold meetings weekly; they are
pretty well attended considering our scattered
condition. We have fifty-five names enrolled,
and twenty-five, average attendance. We
have work meetings once in two weeks, which
meetings we have only just started. We would
be pleased to see some of our sisters, for we
miss their wise counsel very much, and live in
hopes of seeing some of you in the near future;
we feel that we are greatly blessed of the Lord;
we are blest with good health, which we appre-
ciate and thank our Heavenly Father for. Our
people, generally, keep the work of wisdom.
Some of our sisters take the EXPONENT, as
well as the JUVENILE INSTRUCTOR, which are
a great blessing to us. We have a desire to
do all we can for the good of the little ones, as
well as for the advancement of the work we
are engaged in.
	Ever wishing to be one with my co-workers
in the Gospel of Christ, I remain,
	Your sister,
		ANNIE S. STEPHENS.

	BURNHAM, NEW MEXICO.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	A few weeks ago some of the good brethren
and sisters of Bluff City paid us a visit and
organized our Relief Society, Primary and Y.
M. M. I. A., the Y. L. having been previously
organized. Miss Dellie Stevens was chosen
President of Primary, Mrs. Mariette and Mrs.
Aggie Stevens, her Counselors; Miss May
Stevens, Secretary; Miss Mamie Burnham,
Treasurer. Mrs. Aabgail Stevens was chosen
President of Relief Society, and Mrs. Melissa
Slade and Mrs. Mary A. Farnsworth, Counsel-
ors.
	We had a most enjoyable time while the
brethren and sisters were here, and were en-
couraged to keep up our meetings as much as
possible, though we have little more than the
skeleton of each organization.
	The few little ones that are here are deeply
interested in their meeting together, and are
anxious to help to make it interesting. I neg-

[Column 2]

lected to say that Mrs. Mary T. Bigler was
chosen as Secretary for the Relief Society, and
Mrs. Elizabeth Stevens, Treasurer.
	The health of the people is generally good,
and thus far we have been left in peace, but
feel it is necessary to be cautious to be on the
safe side. Part of some families have to re-
main away, which is quite trying, as our num-
bers are so small, and we are still hoping and
praying for help.
	The weather, the past few weeks, has been
most delightful. We have been visited the
past summer by our worthy President, F. A.,
Hammond and his Counselors, Brothers Hall
and Adams; also Bro. Allen, of Bluff; we hope
to see them again soon, and they assure us that
we are not forgotten by them.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I am,
		Your sister,
			MARY S. BURNHAM.

	PIMA, ARIZONA.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society Conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Zion convened at this place,
September 25th, at 10 a.m., Coun. Mary L.
Ransome presiding. Opening exercise of sing-
ing. Prayer by Sister Sarah D. Curtis.
Singing. Minutes of last conference read and
approved. Verbal reports were given of the
various wards; all reported in good working
order, the general desire being to improve in
all good works.
	Sister Ransome addressed the conference;
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of
the sisters, that she might perform her duties
acceptably in the absence of President East,
who is at present on a visit to her son's, in
Apache Co. Said, "We should sustain those
that are place over us by the Priesthood of
God." Spoke upon many subjects of import-
ance; referred to the storing of grain; en-
couraged the circulation of the EXPONENT
among the sisters.
	Sister Sarah D. Curtis, of St. David, bore
testimony to the truth of Sister Ransome's re-
marks. Said, "They are calculated to do us
good if put into practice. We should be wise
in our conversation with each other, and let
our mouths be filled with words of righteous-
ness." Exhorted us to diligence, etc.
	Conference adjourned till two p.m. Singing.
Benediction by Josephine Rogers.
	Two p.m.: On the stand were President C.
Layton and Counselor. Singing. Prayer by
Prest. C. Layton. Singing. The statistical
and financial reports were read and approved,
after which the stake and local officers were
presented before the conference and sustained.
The remainder of the afternoon was devoted
to the Y. L. and P. A.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at St. David. Benediction by Coun. W.
D. Johnson.
	LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Secretary.


﻿ST. GEORGE PRIMARY

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The members of the Primary Association of
the four wards of St. George gave an enter-
tainment on Saturday evening last, the 17th
inst., in the Tabernacle, which proved quite a
success. The children deported themselves ad-
mirably, and rendered their songs and choruses
in a very pleasing manner. Much credit is
due to the stake president, Sister Julia H.
Ivins, and especially to her two daughters.
Sister Maggie Ivins and Sister Julia A. Mc-
Donald, for their assiduous labors in training
the children.
	The little ones seemed really to enjoy it, and
felt no more timidity at appearing on the stage
than they would have done if they had been


playing in their own garden. There was a
good audience, and friends seemed to feel
amply repaid for coming.
	I hope it may be the means of impressing
upon some mothers a sense of the advantage
of allowing their children to attend the meet-
ings regularly, for there are a few who regard
the dishes and such labors as the all-important
subject for attention, and do not remember
that now is the time for the children's charac-
ters to be formed, as well as to learn habits of
industry, and their minds should be stored
with useful knowledge in their youth. In
after life they will not regret any effort they
make for the sake of educating their offspring.
	Yours truly,
		M. A. G. BAKER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOGAN PRIMARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Logan Sixth Ward Primary has just
had a picnic, which was very enjoyable to all
present. They had made a quilt, which they
wished to present to a worthy sister who needed
one. Three of our little teachers, from ten to
twelve years of age, brought the widows and
aged sisters to share the good things the lunch
baskets contained. A hundred persons were
present. Songs, recitations and addresses from
our children followed.
	The afternoon was occupied in a lively
dance, in which our Sunday School joined.
Since this our schools have so increased, that
our Bishop, A. L. Schanchy has found it neces-
sary to enlarge the house.
	EMMA PIKE, President,
	E. L. W. CROWTHER,
	MARY JONES, Counselors.


HOW I BECAME A MORMON.

  Having learned from a friend of mine that
she expected an old friend of the family to
visit her, and, notwithstanding it was to preach
“Mormonism” he was coming, I accepted her
invitation to spend the evening at her home.
Of course I made up my mind not to become
a “Mormon,” but I was curious enough to
want to know something of their belief, so,
after the introductions were gone through,
Elder Robert Marshall, for that was our friend’s
name, came and sat down by me on a couch,
and, without further preliminary, introduced
the subject of baptism, proving it from Holy
Writ. I began to feel very small, as I could
prove nothing in defence of my own creed, al-
though I maintained that I was right, believing
in faith and repentance, as all the world pro-
fesses to do, spiritually, at least, but coming on
to baptism, why I had never so much as
thought of it for myself; I relied so entirely
upon what our clergyman taught that it never
entered my mind to search for myself, but here
was new revelation to me. Before going to
bed each night I prayed to God that I might
know if this was His work and instituted by
Him.
  I saw Elder Marshall frequently at my
friend’s house, and he never grew tired preach-
ing to us, and, indeed, it seemed we never got
tired of listening. Finally I resolved to be
baptized, and one evening, sitting around the
fire, he asked me if I had my mind made up
yet. I said, “Yes.”  He looked delighted, but,
said he, “You must be prepared to lose your
former friendships, and to meet with scorn,
contempt and persecution, for this is the heri-
tage of the people of God.” 
  Meanwhile, my own family could not hide
from me the fact that they were secretly
annoyed by my absenting myself so much from
home, and one day, just as I was going out of
the door, mother called to me, “Going to hear
another ‘Mormon' lecture?” Of course I took


no notice, but walked on.  No more was said
till some time afterward.  I attended a meeting
in my friend’s house; just a number of her rela-
tives were there, I being the only stranger.
When evening came, mother came with it,
knocked at the door and demanded me to come
home; accordingly I went home, and I can tell
you she “went for me,” the result being I left
my home in a few days and never returned.  I
lived three months in Belfast with my friend’s
sister, and then set sail for Salt Lake, which I
have not regretted.  I know that this is God’s
work, and I do desire to be found among the
faithful, enduring to the end.
	M.	S.


﻿A GENTILE’S OPINION.
	I am watching with great interest the oppres-
sion through which your people are now pass-
ing.  If the power of Mammon don’t blind
and pervert the spirit of your people, you will
still live and prosper; but in every contest it is
important to keep the enemy in front, and not
feed spies and traitors in your midst.
	Did you ever know an army that could suc-
ceed that allowed such in their camp?  All
honest people despise that class of people;
and non-Mormons love to see every body at-
tend to their own business, and let others alone;
and as to the plural marriage system, that
ought to be nobody’s business but the parties
contracting.  Men and women ought to be
allowed to contract as they please in the impor-
tant matter of marriage,and not have the ladies
hindered from marriage, by law, like our poor
government land is held for homesteads for
vagabonds and cut throats, who are unworthy
of any woman.  The ladies are to be benefited
by this system, and it is a wonder to me that
they are not nearly all in favor of it; but
many of them are blind to the great benefits
to result to them by plural marriage, and pre-
fer sacrificing their ease and liberty, and
submitting to a species of outrage to be in the
fashion.  Public opinion is very powerful to
hold the average mind down to its dictates; but
I hope when the ladies are generally enlightened
on this subject, and get the ballot and vote,
they will make some improvement in the law;
so much in their favor.
	As the law is now, many of the ladies can’t
marry at all, even to the worst grade of men,
because they are more numerous, and plural
marriage would give them all a chance to love
and be loved by some worthy man, that would
make life a blessing and a pleasure, instead of
having a master, as many of them now have.
	This is the way it looks to one in Alabama,
and I am not afraid nor ashamed to own it, for
I believe this principle to be the greatest boon
ever offered to the daughters of Mother Eve.
				JOHN M. RUSSEL.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA, ARIZONA, Oct. 11, 1885.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
  Your paper is a welcome visitor, and a great
many express a desire to take it, could the
means be obtained to pay for it, but this is the
great trouble with the most of those who de-
sire to take it. We are still hoping against
hope that times will change, but Dame Fortune
is very fickle, and does not come at every beck
and call. I do not think that money could be
spent in a better cause than in securing such
publications, that serve to strenthen and en-
courage us in the onward, upward path, which
it is our duty to follow; such I claim this
paper to be, and I never take it up in my hands
for perusal but I feel that the spirit of inspira-
tion has dictate its contents, and I feel to press
onward with renewed strength, and a determina-


tion to strive to prove myself worthy of a name
and a place in the midst of the Saints of God,
and to associate with those noble-sisters who
are working to carry out those principles of
our faith that will tend to unite and bind to-
gether, instead of rending asunder.
   It is indeed a time of trial to the Saints of
God, and it will serve to test every person who
has a name or a standing in the midst of the
Saints, and prove what kind of material they
are composed of, whether it is gold or dross.
Such men as Angus M. Cannon, A. Milton
Musser, H. B. Clawson, with a number of
others, who have the nobility and manliness
to stand up in court and proudly defend that
glorious principle of our faith, which, is most
sacred to us (a revelation from the Most High
God) and choose rather to suffer bonds and
imprisonment than to renounce it, are the pure
gold, without any alloy, and my heart says,
“God bless them and their families with every
blessing pertaining to this mortal life, and a
glorious eternity hereafter.”
	Four of our brethren have returned from
"Yuma, where they served a term of three
months and fine; the two remaining brethren,
Bro. George Wilson and Spillsbury, are ex-
pected home to-morrow, they serving six
months.  Many more are wandering as exiles
from their homes and families; and when will
this all end?  Not until the Church of God is
purified, when all who can be sifted will be,
and none will be left but the pure in heart.
May God grant that you and I may be of that
number.
   Pardon me for thus intruding upon your
time with such a lengthy letter; when I seated
myself it was merely with the intention of
giving notice of the money, but my pen kept
running in spite of me.  We are enjoying de-
lightful weather now the hot, melting season is
over with, and we certainly appreciate it.  Good
health prevails.  Francelle and family are well,
also Irene’s.
	Hoping these few lines will find your self and
family enjoying the same blessing, I remain, as
ever,		Your friend,
				SARAH M. POMEROY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

  "Mrs. Ole Bull is again at home at Elm-
wood." 
   "Mme. Nilsson has been decorated with
Russian and Danish orders.
   "In Green Co., Ind., a woman is sheriff and
has charge of the jail.”

 "Mrs. Grant, it is said, receives half a bushel
of letters and newspapers every day.”

   "Mrs. Helen Jackson is said to have had an
income of $3,000 a year from her writings
during her most active literary period.”

   "Mme. Christine Nilsson, it is said, has final-
ly determined to settle in England, and is
sumptuously decorating a house in Kensington
Court.”

   "Jenny Lind will sing in public this summer
for the first time in twenty-two years, in aid of
the Children's Infirmary in Norwich, Eng-
land."

   "Colonel T. W. Higginson contributes to
the current number of Science an article on
'American Flash Language,' with lists of words
and phrases.”

   "The New Era for October publishes in full
the paper read by Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney be-
fore the Association for the advancement of
Women, on "Woman in the Brahmo Somaj.”

   "At the recent rifle festival in Austria, a
Tyrolese peasant girl carried a standard that


was first used in 1646, when the women of
Bregenz, the canton to which she belonged,
victoriously repelled the Swedes."
   "The census of 1885 gives the whole number
of women in Massachusetts as 1,009,036. There
are 66,607 more women than men in the State.
This is an increase since the census returns of
1880 of 402."
  "The City in which municipal suffrage has just
been granted to women is Madras, not Madrid,
as was erroneously stated in the telegraphic
despatches. So much the worse for Madrid,
and so much the better for Madras.”

 The total number of self-supporting women
and girls over ten years of age in the United
States is 2,647,157. This number does not in-
clude the unpaid domestic labor in the home,
which is done by the wives, sisters,and mothers,
who are said to be ‘supported’ by their male
relatives. The census enumerates these women
among those "employed in no gainful labor.”
—Boston Transcript.

 “Mrs. Le Brenton, who died recently in
England in her seventy-eighth year, was a
niece of Lucy Aiken, the historian, and a
grandaughter of the well-known Gilbert
Wakefield, names which recall a long-past
literary generation. Though not a writer by
profession, she had a ready and graceful pen,
and will be remembered as the author of a
memoir of Mrs. Barbauld, and of a more re-
cently-published book, "Memories of Seventy
Years," which abounds in anecdotes and recol-
lections of such persons as Coleridge, S. Rogers,
Crabb, Robinson, George Dyer, the G. D. of
Elia, Flaxman, Stothard, Professor Smyth,
Malthus, Joanna Baillie, Ram Mohua Roy, and
many others whom she had known in early
life."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Keep Preserves Good.—Put them in stone jars or
vessels of glass, earthern or stoneware; cover tightly and
keep in a cool, dry place. Look at them every month; if
they are turning, scald and return to the jars.

Loaf Cake.—Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, one cup-
ful of sugar, three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of milk,
three teaspoonfulls of baking powder, flour to thicken, and
flavor with Burnett’s Extract of Lemon. Mix and bake
in one loaf.

	Sauce for Pudding. - Two large cupfuls brown sugar,
one large cupful butter, one teacupful wine, and a little of
Burnett’s Extract of Rose. Boil the sugar and wine to-
gether, then add the butter and Burnett’s Extract of Nut-
meg.

A Good Sponge Cake.—Into a froth made of seven eggs
and two teacupfuls of sugar, stir two coffee-cupfuls of flour,
mixed with a teaspoonful of saleratus and two of cream of
tartar. Flavor with a teaspoonful of Burnett’s Extract of
Lemon or Almond.

	Christmas Cake.—One pound of flour, half pound of
currants, half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, two
teaspoonfuls baking powder, three eggs, half a pint of
milk. Mix the baking powder thoroughly in the flour,
then rub in the butter, add the sugar, currants and flavor-
ing, beat the eggs and mix them with the milk, and after
mixing them all thoroughly together bake in a prepared
tin in a moderate oven; add two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's
Extract of Lemon.

	Gold Cake.—One and one-half cups of sugar, three-
quarters of a cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, the yolks
of eight eggs, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of
baking powder, and two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract
of Vanilla. Mix the sugar and butter to a cream, add the
eggs, then the milk, and lastly the flour in which the bak-
ing powder has been well mixed; this cake must be well
stirred; bake in one cake, in a medium oven, about one
hour.

	Silver cake. - One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-
half a cupful of butter, three-quarters of a cupful of milk,


three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder,
Burnett's Extract of Almond, and the whites of eight eggs
beaten to a froth. Mix the butter and sugar to
a cream, add the milk, then half of the flour and half of
the beaten eggs, then the other half of the flour and eggs,
then the baking powder, which has been well mixed with
the flour, and should always be sifted; flavor to taste with
almond flavor, make in one loaf, and bake in a medium
oven about one hour and ten minutes.

	Kiss Cakes.—One pound of flonr, eight ounces of but-
ter, eight ounces of currants, two ounces of sugar, and
one teaspoonful of Burnett’s Extract of Lemon. Mix the
flour and sugar, and make it into a smooth paste with
water, but do not make it very wet. Roll out three times,
and spread in the butter as for pastry. Roll it very thin,
and cut into round or square cakes; spread half of them
very thickly with currents, press the others gently on the
top, so as to form a sandwich, and bake in a quick oven
till of a light brown. If preferred, jam may be used in-
stead of currants.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Union, September 28th, of typhoid fever,
Annie Jensen, daughter of Mons and Ingre Jensen, aged
sixteen years and four months.
	Though not a member of our association, having just
eome from Europe, her desire was to unite with us after
her sickness. We bow in humble submission, and feel to
say, “Thy will, O Lord, be done,” and we, the Y. L. of
Union, feel to condole with her father and mother, brother
and sisters, and may they be strengthened and comforted
to know that their loved one was called home after reach
ing the valley of these mountains, where a work can be
performed for the living and the dead.
	We say, “Rest, dear sister, Annie, where you were so
beautifully laid away. till you shall come forth in the resur-
rection of the just."
	She was borne from her home to the ward house by six
young ladies dressed in white, and we feel she was worthy
of the respect shown her. Farewell till the resurrection
morn.
							MARY ANN SMART.

	DIED, in Holden, Oct. 9th, 1885, of old age, Polly
Stringam, wife of the late George Stringam. Sister
Stringam was born in Broom Co., New York, April 3rd,
1803. She embraced the Gospel in the year 1832, and
strove to keep its precepts by being truthful and exemplary
in her daily life, and was among the first who joined the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, and has been an active member
in the different settlements where she has been a resident.
She was loved by all who knew her for her kind, motherly
ways; her mind was always reaching out to do good. She
loved to speak of the goodness of God, and converse on
the principles of life and salvation. She donated freely to
the poor, and was ever on hand to do good.
	Mother Stringam has five living children, sixty-six grand
-children, sixty-five great-grandchildren, and many near
and dear friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting house,
which was well filled. Apostle Erastus Snow preached the
funeral discourse, followed by W. H. King, of Filmore.
Mother Stringam departed this life without a struggle, with
a full hope of a glorious resurrection, and on her death-
bed bore a powerful testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
			KATE STEVENS, Asst. Secretary R. S.

	It is with deep regret and feelings of sorrow that we re-
cord the death of our most esteemed sister, Marie Lindeloff,
who departed this life Oct. 5th. 1885, at her residence, in
Plain City, Weber Co., Utah, after suffering one week with
congestion of the lungs.
	Deceased was born at Tirop, Sweden, on the 28th of
August, 1823. Baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in 1858; emigrated to Utah in 1861.
She has been a member of the Plain City Ward twenty-
three years.
	Sister Lindeloff was, for a long time past, very often ex-
pressing her desire to do something to help others, and,
although a very weakly woman, seemed so anxious to
work, and many times in meeting would,say, “If I could
only do some good!” Finally she determiued to go to the
Deseret Hospital, where she worked as nurse and Matron
for nine months, ministering as an angel of mercy to the
sick and the dying, while she always comforted those who
mourned. She was very much beloved by both officers


and patients, and expressed great regret, in consequence of
ill health, at leaving so many dear friends there.
	Sister Lindeloff has, for seventeen years, been a most
faithful teacher in the Relief Society in this place. Her
house was always open for meetings and business of the
Society. She was an earnest and indefatigable laborer in
the cause she had espoused, diligent and faithful in all her
duties, kind and benevolent to the poor, charitable to the
erring, meek and humble in spirit, exemplary in all the re-
lations of life, with an unfaltering faith in God and her
religion. She was beloved by all who knew her, and died
in the hope of a glorious resurrection to inherit eternal life
in the mansions of the just.
				ALMIRA RAYMOND, President,
				M. A. W. SPIERS, Sectetary.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

		Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
		DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

		F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
