VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1886.	NO. 22.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

How broad and high and deep the mighty theme,
Where past and present and the future gleam
In one vast glorious, panoramic view,
Showing the artist's skill sublime and true.

Mine but the task to point to each grand scene,
Of what has been, is being, and will be, I ween,
Unless Jehovah's word is null and void,
And prophets, Saints and Christ in vain have died.

First on the view a new born world appears,
To take its place amid revolving spheres—
Result of council of the gods above,
A plan of wisdom, majesty and love.

The work completed, and a day of rest
Appointed—still unto man of all most blest;
When he will keep its holy laws complete,
He will have light to guide his wandering feet.

Now let us gaze upon that Eden fair,
That Eden pure with fruits most choice and rare,
Adam and Eve untouched with deadly sin,
Ere the vile tempter there had entered in.

Oh! what a picture for the weary now,
Who 'neath the tyrant's rod in anguish bow,
Whose longing eyes now look for peace in vain,
For one bright spot free from sin's darkening stain.

But lo, the picture changed, the serpent's trail
Has marred each lovely scene, and sorrow's wail
Comes close upon the broken law; sin enters in,
Aye, to remain, unless a greater win.

The years roll on; another scene behold,
Where man has widely wandered from the fold;
God has repented His creation now,
And breathed a just and an unchanging vow,

To sweep him from the earth, all save a few—
Noah and his, who still were pure and true.
In vain had Noah warned the dying world—
They heeded not 'til heaven's darts were hurled

In anger down, and floods rose high and wide,
The swelling rivers meeting ocean tide;
One funeral dirge the wild winds sadly played,
When the fleeting breath of a whole world was stayed.

While sadly rested on the silent wave
The ark of him who tried in vain to save;
And he in time goes forth to build again,
Dwellings for man upon the mount and plain.

Nations arise and fall at God's command—
Egypt has felt the power of His right hand.
Stretched forth to set His bleeding captives free,
And mourns great Pharaoh's hosts beneath the sea.

Time's onward course displays each changing scene,
And Bethlehem's Star lights all with its bright gleam;
The Babe whose birthplace was a manger low,
Yet Lord of lords and King of all below.

But yet ye slew Him and His prophets dear,
Ye hosts of Satan!  but the time is near
When He shall come again and set His captives free,
Then chains and dungeons shall your portion be.

List to the words of that deep "still small voice,"
That makes the devils tremble and the Saints rejoice;
Study the glorious plan; then, if ye dare,
Go on, He will His mighty arm make bare.

We trust the Shepherd's voice we know so well,
And scorn the offer Him again to sell;
Though life and liberty the tempter be,
We'll wear the chains until He set us free.

	HOPE.
Mesa City, March 28.


[Column 1]

"THE ROTUNDA"—KIRTLAND—THE
"MEMORIAL."

	Following are some extracts from a letter
written by Mrs. E. B. Wells, April 6, 1886, on
receiving the news of the birth of a grand-
daughter.  The entertaining description of the
places named will no doubt prove acceptable
to our readers:
	Allow me to offer my most sincere congratula-
tions upon this auspicious occasion—the birth
through the royal lineage of the new and ever-
lasting covenant of one of the daughters of
Eve, and let us hope that she has come like a
sweet flower of the spring to bring joy and
fragrance to the household.
	The news of her advent came to me in the
Rotunda of the Capitol, as I was on my way
to the Marble Room of the Senate. The mes-
sage conveying "the glad tidings of great joy"
was handed me by a member of Congress, the
Delegate from Utah, and must, of course,
have been an official announcement.  You
know what a magnificent place the Rotunda is,
and the news coming to the grandmother there
ought to augur good for the newly born daugh-
ter of the house.  To describe this grand place
would take too much time, but suffice it to say,
it is 180 feet high to the canopy, and 96 feet
in diameter.  The sides are divided into eight
panels, with massive Roman pilasters support-
ing an entablature ornamented with wreaths
of olive. The paintings on the walls are also
eight in number, all historical.  The first re-
presents the landing of Columbus, the second
the discovery of the Mississippi, the third the
Baptism of Pocahontas, the fourth the Em-
barkation of the Pilgrims, the fifth the Declara-
tion of Independence, the sixth the Surrender
of Burgoyne at Saratoga, the seventh the Sur-
render of Cornwallis at Yorktown, the eighth
General Washington at Annapolis.  The apex
of the canopy represents an apotheosis of
Washington with Freedom on his right hand
and Victory on his left.  Here also are thirteen
female figures, representing the original States
and their products, and supporting a scroll on
which is inscribed E Pluribus Unum.  On the
outer margin are six groups allegorical of the
Revolution, viz., The Fall of Tyranny, Agri-
culture, Mechanics, Commerce, Marine, Arts
and Sciences.
	The Fall of Tyranny is represented by an
Eagle battling with Tyranny and Priestcraft,
a mailed soldier vainly struggling to uphold
the ermined robe of royalty.  Discord stands
by, also Anger and Revenge, with incendiary
torch.
	Agriculture is represented by Ceres with
cornucopia.  America wearing a red cap of
Liberty is turning over to Ceres the mastery of
a pair of horses attached to a reaper.  Flora is
gathering flowers and Pomona bears a basket
of fruit.
	Mechanics represents Vulcan resting his
right foot upon a CANNON, and the various in-
struments of his art are around him.
	Commerce is represented by Mercury hold-
ing a bag of gold and directing attention to it.
The figure thus called is Robert Morris, the
financier of the Revolution; there is Merchan-
dise with men at work, and two sailors point-
ing to a gunboat.
	Marine is portrayed by Neptune in his car
bearing his trident, accompanied by his attend-
ants, emerging from the deep, Amphrodite,

[Column 2]

Venus, is about dropping into the foaming
waters an electric cable, which has been hand-
ed her by a cherub.
	Arts and Sciences, the sixth and last, is re-
presented by Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom,
surrounded by figures.  Franklin, the philoso-
pher, Fulton, the inventor of the steamboat,
Morse, of the magnetic telegraph, and the
figures of children, indicating teaching.—Now
tell me, is not this a propitious place in which
to receive the message of a new birth!
	Besides, on the very day that she was born
at nine o'clock in the morning, I walked into
the White House, or more properly called the
Executive Mansion, and at eleven succeeded
in obtaining entrance into the library, where
we sat about an hour and a quarter waiting
our turn to speak to the President of the
United States.  Shortly after twelve o'clock
we presented to him our credentials and the
Memorial of the women of Utah Territory,
and had an opportunity of stating to him some
facts and incidents relating to the abuses and
outrages perpetrated in the name of law.
	Now, if all these incidents combined are not
ominous of some special goodness or great-
ness in the mission on earth of the little
woman just ushered into life and being, I shall
give up prognosticating and speculating upon
such matters.	*	*	*	*
	March first was the anniversary of my bap-
tism, forty-four years  before, and I went to
Kirtland and walked over the historical
ground and through the Kirtland Temple,
which, though desecrated now by the teaching
and preaching of false doctrines, is still dear
to the Latter-day Saints on account of what
has transpired within those sacred walls, dedi-
cated as they were to the Most High God.
All those places where the Saints have lived
and worshiped, and toiled and suffered, are
dear to those who have shared or are sharing
similar trials and difficulties.  There is, of
course, this difference to me about Kirtland
and Nauvoo, though both are interesting and
both historical, that Nauvoo, with its scenes of
sufferings, trials and sorrows is engraven into
my very life, while Kirtland cannot become so
much a part of my very existence. I drank
in as much as possible the peculiar situation of
Joseph in the Whitney house in Kirtland,
where he received so many testimonies direct
from a divine source, and where he was almost
daily in communication with the Lord.  In-
deed, I have often heard Bishop Whitney say
that when he would ask the Prophet questions
he did not feel competent to answer, he would
often reply, "Bro. Whitney, I will go and ask
the Lord," and soon after, in a day or two, or
sometimes the same day, he would say, "I have
inquired of the Lord concerning that matter,
and have received the answer."  As you are
well aware, I am much attached to places, and
certainly a house where a prophet of God had
lived and received communications from on
high, possesses an interest to an ardent believer,
far above the palaces which have only archi-
tecture and adornments to recommend them.
So that the little chamber in Kirtland, deserted
and neglected, had a charm for me that con-
verted it, for the time being, into a fit place
for "the wise men of the west," who sat there
in council and who knelt there in prayer.  O
indeed, "it was good to be there," knowing
what I knew of what had formerly transpired
within those walls.
	I saw not that which was, but the vision of


the past.  Joseph the Seer with the Urim and 
Thummim, and around him were his few
staunch followers.  Mother Whitney has told
me of his struggles with himself and his
brethren in that room, when he would pace
the floor backwards and forwards, and in her
room just underneath she could hear him, and
O so many precious things she has told me of 
those wonderful days that are known to none
living now as she knew them.  How I wish
every day that she could have written some of
the beautiful things as she could describe them
episodes in history that ought to have been
left on record.  But she has gone, Sister
Woodruff has gone, and Sister Marinda Hyde
has gone now, and soon there will not be one
of those who first received endowments in the
old brick store in Nauvoo.  There were only
a few at the time, and so many of them are
dead, especially the women.  Bathsheba Smith
is the only one I can recall at the present
time, unless it is Augusta Winters' grand-
mother, and I am not sure about her.  One
thing I do think ought to have been officially
stated by Mother Whitney in her own hand-
writing, and that is, her knowledge of Emma
Smith's giving Joseph wives.  To be sure there
is testimony from the wives, but coming from
one outside the family, and a first wife and in-
timate friend would be very much stronger
with those not convinced.  Still, I suppose it
would be like those of old, who the Savior
said would not believe though one rose from
the dead.	*	*	*	*
	Yesterday the Memorial of the Women of
Utah was presented in the Senate and pub-
lished in full in the Record, and now only the
House remains to be heard from.  We intend
to get it referred to a committee there, and
then see what can be done with the committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, the women of Mancos Ward Relief So-
ciety, wish to express, through the columns of
your paper, our heartfelt sympathy for our
brethren and sisters who are undergoing such
bitter persecutions for the love of our holy re-
ligion.
     Although somewhat removed from the im-
mediate scene of affliction, we are none the
less interested in our dear brethren and sisters
that are enduring these trials.   We fully
realize that it is only a matter of time, when
we, too, will have to give as strong a proof of
our faith in the work of God established in
these last days for the exaltation of  man-
kind.
     We read with  a feeling of horror and
chagrin of our sisters being dragged before
courts and compelled to answer questions that
no man with one spark of manhood could be
induced to ask—of the privacy of their bed-
rooms being invaded, without even allowing
them time to dress, of their being thrust into
prison in a condition that has demanded the
respect of men worthy the name in all ages.
We read of these things, and many more of
like character, with feelings of deepest sym-
pathy for our brethren and sisters. We know
that they are brave and noble enough to 
avenge these wrongs, did they not know that
rashness on their part would only add to the 
persecutions of the people.  We read also with
pain and sorrow of our beloved leaders being 
deprived of their liberty and the kindly asso-
ciation of family and friends, at an advanced
period of life, after traveling thousands of
miles to carry the words of life and salvation
to their fellow men, but we have great conso-
lation in the knowledge that God is at the 
helm and will avenge our wrongs.
     When these wrongs can be inflicted by such
questionable characters as the present court
minions, with not only the sanction of the


courts, but the government, surely justice has
fled and honor departed from the nation.  It
seems that the end is not yet,from the bills now
pending.
     We join with every true Latter-day Saint in
thanking God for the  presence in Congress of
those few noblemen that dare face the flood of
bitterness and hate, that is almost everywhere
made manifest against us, and boldly contest
for our constitutional rights.  We fear there
are not many such—not enough to save the
nation, and like Sodom, it will go down.  We
are earnestly watching the progress that both
powers are making, with perfect confidence as
to the result, and praying for strength to stand
for the cause of God when our time of trial
comes.
     We humbly pray that God will comfort and
support the prisoner, the fugitive and the be-
reaved for His cause.
	SISTERS OF THE MANCOS WARD R. S.


SOME QUERIES.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In our great anxiety and desire to benefit
and uplift the poor Indian from his wretched,
degraded and uncivilized condition, is it not
always well to be careful how we undertake
to pull down his poor old wigwam until we
can provide him a better one?  Lest by so do-
ing we might not only cause him a vast amount
of unnecessary trouble and suffering, but our-
selves also.
	So likewise in respect to the very perplexing
"Utah problem." Is it wise to attempt to up-
root and destroy the very foundation, and even
the hope of the professed Latter-day Saints, in
regard to their honest and conscientious religious
belief, especially concerning the all-important
marriage question?  Do the people at large,
 and the members of the other Christian de-
nominations expect this "peculiar people" to
renounce their belief in polygamy until they
can be shown a better system of marriage
thau any now in existence in the known world?
For have not all these systems simply proved a 
grand and complete failure to introduce that
beautiful heaven of peace and righteousness
which Christ came to establish on earth, and
which He taught His Saints to especially pray
for?
     And would it not also be proper for all to
just bear in mind that "the race is not always
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong?"
		GIDEON.
	Prospect Hill, Salt Lake City.


THE FEMALE VOTE.

	It is often said if women vote, they will
have to be candidates for office, (though no
man has to be a candidate for office unless he
chooses) and that they will then be abused in
the newspapers—actually, in the newspapers!
There is always in these arguments a tacit as-
sumption that as long as women cannot vote,
they will be secure from abuse in the news-
papers.  But the papers that are opposed to
woman suffrage are ready to assail a woman
just as roughly as if she were a man,—general-
ly, indeed, with an added fling on the score of
her sex.  Witness the Boston  Herald, which
says in a conspicuous editorial:
	"In a shrieky letter to Senator Edmunds,
Mrs. De Lozier, of New York, protests with a 
blindness to facts characteristic of some mem-
bers of her sex, against depriving the Mormon
leaders in Utah of that bulwark of polygamy,
woman suffrage. 'The right of suffrage be-
longs to those women as a God-given right of
their nature,' says the writer.  On the con-
trary, the right was given them by an act of
Congress, and, having operated to strengthen


the Mormon power, it is about to be revoked."
	Blindness to facts seems not to be a purely
feminine characteristic; for the foregoing para-
graph contains almost as many errors as it
does assertions.  In the first place, the lady's
name is Mrs. Dr. Lozier, not Mrs. De Lozier.
In the second place, the Utah women were not
enfranchised by "an act of Congress," but by
an act of the Utah Legislature.  In the third
place, woman suffrage has in no preceptible
way strengthened the Mormon power; four-
fifths of the non-polygamous men of the Terri-
tory being Mormons, it makes not the slightest
practical difference to the Mormon power
whether the women vote or not. But in view
of the language habitually used by a certain
class of newspaper writers towards women
with whom they do not agree, is it not time to
drop the argument that women are treated
with respect, not because of their sex, or their
goodness, or their wisdom, but because of their
inability to vote?—Woman's Journal.


PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT.

	There is almost no limit to the physical de-
velopment and health that may be gained and 
maintained by walking that is done for the
purpose of exercise.  Any one can find time
and space in which to walk, and one can find
congenial company for such trips.  A prospec-
tive husband is not the best company at such
times, for with him the walk will almost ine[--]
itably degenerate into a saunter; further, no
woman can walk freely when custom or affec-
tion compels her to lean upon a masculine arm.
To be beneficial, walking must  be done in
shoes broad enough to let the feet be placed
firmly upon the ground at every step, and in
clothing which will allow free play to the
lungs and arms.  The step should be as quick
as can be maintained without causing uncom-
fortable increase in the action of the heart.
The pedestrian should breathe through the
nose, carry the head erect, and not be afraid 
of becoming high shouldered.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Astronomers promise that a bright comet
will be visible just before sunrise during the
latter part of May.  It is the comet "1886,"
discovered lately by Professor Barnard.
	It is said that the use of smelling salts pro-
duces irritation which in many cases destroys
the sense of smell.  Sore throat, violent head-
aches, and red noses, also result from this
fashionable habit.  Sore throat and headache
a society belle can bear, but a red nose, 
never!
	The tree known as the "traveler's tree" is
abundant in Madagascar, and rises from the 
ground with a thick, succulent stem.  Long,
broad leaves grow from opposite sides of the
stalk, so that the tree looks like a huge green,
open fan.  During the most arid season the
tree contains a large quantity of pure, fresh
water, supplying to the traveler the absence of
wells in the desert.  So abundant and pure is
the water that the natives will not take the
trouble to go to a spring or well, but draw off
and drink the fluid of this tree.  A thrust of
the spear into the thick, firm end of the leaf
stalk, where it joins the trunk, will be fol-
lowed by a copious flow of ice cold, clear, and
perfectly sweet water.


The criterion of true beauty is that it in-
creases on examination; if false, that it lessens.
There is something, therefore, in true beauty
that corresponds with right reason, and is not
merely the creation of fanoy.—Lord Green-
ville.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
"SHUT IN."

BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Shut in: shut in from the ceaseless din
Of the restless world, its want and sin;
Shut in from its turmoil, care and strife,
And all the wearisome round of life;
Shut in with tears that are spent in vain,
With the dull companionship of pain;
Shut in with the changeless days and hours,
And bitter knowledge of failing powers.

Shut in and alone, with dreams gone by,
With buried joys that were born to die;
Shut in with hopes that have lost their zest,
And leave but a longing after rest;
Shut in with a trio of angels sweet—
Fair Patience and Grace, trials to meet,
Faith that can suffer and stand and wait,
Lean on the promises, strong and great.

Shut in with Christ, oh, wonderful thought!
With the calm peace His sufferings brought;
Shut in with the love that wields the rod—
Oh, company blest! shut in with God.


A VOICE FROM UTAH.

BY M. J. TANNER.

These's a voice that goes forth to the head of the nation,
	The voice of a nation whose freedom has fled;
We are crying aloud for the right of salvation,
	The rights for which heroes have battled and bled.

There's a cry that resounds from the hills to the ocean,
	A cry form the widows and orphans who mourn;
Oh! hard is the heart where no tender emotion
	Can stir not a love for the lone and forlorn.

The daughters of Zion are bowing in sorrow,
	Whose husbands are banished in exile to roam;
And our foes from the wolves of the mountain might
		borrow
	Some pity for those who are mourning at home.

They would ask us to banish all tender emotion
	That marks us as children of Christ in His love,
And wrest from our heartstrings a life of devotion—
	Eternity's mandates are given above.

Then let us stand forth as the children of freemen,
	Whose fathers have never dishonored the laws;
Nor cravens nor cowards to bend 'neath the foeman—
	As children of Zion we'll honor our cause.

Our husbands and fathers have languished in prison,
	Our substance is squandered, our children despoiled;
Our cries and our sorrows no pity awaken,
	Thier anger appeased nor their pity beguiled.

Then raise up your voices, fair daughters of Zion,
	Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth;
There's a power above us, whose hand we rely on,
	More potent than princes and kings of the earth.


CRITICS AND CRITICISM.

	There are wise and unwise critics. And, ac-
cording to their natures, their criticisms are
wise or foolish, kind or unkind, true or false.
	Wise criticism is likely to be beneficial to
both critic and criticised; while unwise criti-
cism is detrimental to both, often more so to
the critic than the criticised.
	The true critic discovers many items to ad-
mire and profit by in matters which contain
only flaws to call forth ridicule or reproof
from the false or unwise critic.
	An instance illustrative of the above fact
recurs to my mind. Some years ago, in a
company of young ladies, a very humble and
unassuming girl remarked that she had but
little to say in company, because she felt the
want of an "edication." Another young
lady, who considered herself smart and also
well educated, proved to be too shallow-minded
or too thoughtless and unobserving to discover
the true merits, the modest beauty and purity


of sentiment contained in that little speech.
All she weighed or measured it by was the
mispronounced word, "edication," which she
sneeringly repeated to one sitting by her, in a
tone loud enough to be heard, I presume, by
every one present	In the eyes of at least the
majority of that company, the smart girl ap-
peared of far less value, and even good sense,
than the one who had so meekly confessed her
inability to make herself interesting to her
friends.
	Another good point may be made just here,
by the recital of something else which took
place the same afternoon, if I remember right-
ly, in the same company of girls.  A gentle-
man sent in a request for a favor to be done by
some of the young ladies.  As is ever the 
case with self-confident people, the smart girl
was quick to reply.  When the request had been
announced, "Let him do it hisself" she re-
sponded abruptly.
	Anyone the least acquainted with grammati-
cal accuracy would notice at once that the "well
educated" young lady had made a mistake in
speaking, quite as glaring as the one she was 
so ready to pick up and make much of but a 
short time before.
	What I would call attention to in this case
is the fact that all are so liable to make mis-
takes it is never safe or wise to offer uncalled
for or useless criticisms upon the language or
actions of others.  Had it not been for the un-
kindly manner in which the first mistake al-
luded to was repeated by the smart young lady,
her own blunder in saying hisself, instead of
himself, if noticed at all, would never have
been remembered.
	The wise and true critic searches for the
good and noble traits to be found in almost
every character not utterly depraved, and at-
tributes to every action the best and worthiest
motives.  Thus, something worth treasuring is
often found where the unthinking see only
cause for contempt or censure.

	Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow,
		Who s[---] for pearls must dive below."

			L .G. R.


DAY DREAMS.

	'Twas springtime. The glorious sun was
rising over a woodland country in majestic
splendor, kissing away the dews and filling the
earth with gladness. The cheerful birds
caroled sweetly in the dense, widening forest,
 whose mingling, mossy boughs embraced the
golden sky. The sunny, clime-lisping wind
swept softly across the lea, spreading the per-
fume of choicest flowers like an unseen censor
swung by seraphim through peaceful, resting
vales. Rolling on forever, the babbling brook
murmured more musically the everlasting song
of nature's never tiring loveliness. Leaning
over the picket gate, basking in the sunlight
of hopeful youth, stood a beautiful, one with a
darling babe, who was as happy as the singing
birds that wrapped her soul and all surround-
ing things in ecstacy divine. As a passing
man planted a kiss upon the cherub's cheek
and silently vanished from sight, ten thousand
panoramic thoughts flashed through her
dreamy mind, and she saw her long looked for,
cherished one return in safety from a distant
clime to fill her heart with increased joy, and
her lonely home with bounteous thanksgiv-
ing.
	The passer by was a stranger in a strange
land, a wanderer among men, teaching the
truth and setting forth righteousness. As he
traveled along, his head slightly forward, he
dreamed of a vale in the midst of the moun-
tains	There was his welcome home, surround-
ed with craggy, snow-capped peaks that have
battled the storms of ages. The blooming
orchard was full of merry birds, which filled
the balmy air with varied harmony. Near his


feet the little streamlet sang the same old song
of unceasing happiness, as it rippled o'er the
rocks to join the river's course.  The gentle
zephyrs that passed silently by, wafted pleasant
odors from the oasis of the desert.  With her
white arms on his painted gate, he saw his
dearest treasure,with his angel babe in her em-
brace, eagerly watching for his joyous return.
His soul o'erflowing with rapture, he kissed
the dimpled face, and was going to continue
his greeting when awakened to the unwelcome
reality that he was in a place he had never
seen before.  With silent emotion he pursued
his onward course, and dreamed that another
had made the same mistake in the valleys of
the west.
	The stranger had kissed the child and was
lost to view before she hardly realized her true
position.  She thought her bosom friend had
really returned, but now the bitter tears of
disappointment rolled down the rosy cheeks;
she said to herself in smothered accents, "The
man must have done it in fond remembrance
of his tender own dwelling in some distant
land.  I wonder if mine has ever done the
same in the strange country where he now so-
journs?"
		C. H. BLISS.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Silence does not always mark wisdom.
	Religious contentions are the devil's har-
vest.
	The secret of success is constancy to pur-
pose.
	The heart ought to give charity when the
hand cannot.
	Truth is as impossible to be soiled by any
outward touch as the sunbeam.
	To love is to admire with the heart; to ad-
mire is to love with the mind.—T. Gautier.
	We make too little of what we say of others,
and a great deal too much of what they say of
us.
	The Persians say of noisy, unreasonable talk,
"I hear the sound of a millstone, but I see no
meal."
	A little girl seeing her father, who was a
lawyer, honing his razor, said: "Pa, is that
the knife you sharpen your cheek with?"
	The hardest useful labor is less exhausting,
in the long run, than exciting pleasures, as 
most of their devotees in middle life sadly
confess.
	To be idle and be poor have ever been re-
praoches; and therefore every man endeavors
with his utmost care to hide his poverty from
others, and his idleness from himself.—Dr.
Johnson.
	After a tongue has once got the knack of ly-
ing, it is not to be imagined how impossible it
is almost to reclaim it.  Whence it comes to
pass that we see some men, who are otherwise
very honest, subject to this vice.—Montague.
	Personalities are the bane of familiar dis-
course.  If conversation must turn upon idle
report, and talk degenerate into idle tattle,
rather than submit to this drying up process
of the brain, let us set a seal upon our lips.
	We are apt to mistake our vocation in look-
ing out the way for occasions to exercise great
and rare virtues, and by stepping over the
ordinary ones which lie directly in the road
before us.  When we read, we fancy we could
be martyrs; but when we come to act, we can-
not bear a provoking word.—Hannah Moore.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

NAUVOO AS IT IS TO-DAY.

	Leaving Chicago Monday evening we reached
Montrose, Iowa, about nine o'clock next morn-
ing, March 9th, and found to our surprise that
there was but one way to cross the Mississippi
River at that point, and that was in a skiff.  The
ice was floating about considerably, and it looked
a little venturesome, but, having resolved to see
Nauvoo after forty years, having left it in Febru-
ary, 1846, we felt determined to make the effort.
There was no difficulty whatever in going over
except every now and then to steer clear of float-
ing ice, and the opposite bank was quickly
reached.  Nauvoo is still beautiful, or at any rate
picturesque in its situation. It looks very pretty,
and indeed presents rather a striking appearance
from the other side of the river, sufficient to at-
tract the attention of strangers, and when the
trees and vines, with which it abounds, are in leaf
it must look very handsome, coming towards it
from either direction. The people who live there
take considerable pride in its history, and tell
many remarkable stories, some of them much
more strange than true, of what transpired when
the Mormons were in possession.
	Nauvoo, like Kirtland, still bears some traces of
its former greatness, and one cannot help feeling
solemn in going over these historic places and re-
membering the familiar associations and recalling
the sad events that transpired in connection with
the persecutions and the exodus.
	The thoughts that rush to the mind, the recol-
lections of the past that sweep like a torrent over
the soul, bringing back vividly the remembrance
of that which once was, but is now no more, came
like magic when treading the well-remembered
streets and places to memory dear. What visions
unfolded themselves again to view. The dead
came back momentarily and stood all about us,
and the shrill wind seemed to echo their voices
and repeat the story of their wrongs. It does not 
require any very great stretch of the imagina-
tion to call up fantasies in a place so hallowed by
remembrances of loved ones gone before, as is
that consecrated ground. Some of the people be-
lieve it is cursed because of the drivings of the
Saints. We were told that many had moved away
on that account, they felt so confident that such
was the case. A short of spell does seem to rest
upon it, and it has the marked appearance of deso-
lation and ruin.  Many of the houses and old
landmarks are gone, and it is not so easy to find
places once well known, as might be supposed.
	Some houses have been pretty well kept up,
among the number are the residences of Brigham 
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Bishop Whitney,
Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor, Joseph Young,
Bishop Hunter, Bishop Woolley and Esquire
Johnson.  The people who own the residence of
Heber C. Kimball seem quite proud of the name
of its former owner, and refer to him with respect,
if not reverence. This house we went through,
even to the observatory on the roof, for there were

[Column 2]

associations connected with it that we loved to re-
call.  We also visited the Brigham Young house,
and several others which "fond recollection pre-
sented to view," and some of them brought
floods of tears that almost blinded us, as we
passed from room to room, recalling the incidents
that had transpired there and associated the
places in our mind; but tongue can never tell it
all, and the poet's cry came to us as we lingered
near the shrines so deeply engraven upon mem-
ory's tablets.

	"But ah! the tears that are not wept,
		The tears that never outward fall;
The tears that grief for years has kept
	Within us—they are best of all:
		The tears our eyes shall never know,
		Are dearer than the tears that flow."

	The great regret of all in mentioning Nauvoo is
that the Temple has been destroyed.  The people
who live in Nauvoo at the present time realize
what financial value the Temple or even its ruins
would be to that city to-day. Every year the
number of travelers and tourists increases, and
inquiries are made concerning people, places and
events, and there is very little reliable information
to be obtained. Mormonism has made such a
stir in the world since then, and people are just
beginning to see that there must have been causes
and conditions to influence its growth, and to
wonder what they were, and find an interest in
going back to the beginning and following it
through its several stages of progress and develop-
ment, even though men designate it the "hydra
headed monster." Those who lived in Nauvoo at
the time of the trouble all agree that it was a cruel
and bitter warfare that was waged against the in-
nocent and unwary, and many incidents of harsh-
ness and severity were related for our especial
benefit. Oaths and imprecations and blasphemy
were hurled at defenseless women and their little
children.  It is not forgotten, and it never can be
by any of those who participated in the struggle
against mob violence and ruffianism. There are
those living to-day—Gentiles—who were cognizant
of the facts at the time, who maintain that the
driving of the Mormons from their Temple and
their homes was something that American people
must ever look back upon with regret.  It could
only have arisen, they say, in a locality so new
that it might be considered border land; where
law and order could not be enforced, because of
the rough and unsettled condition of an unde-
veloped country.  This is the way in which men
pacify their consciences, or stifle them, and fancy,
perchance, that such lawlessness will never be
punished nor those terrible wrongs against the
innocent be redressed, but those who hold such
specious views will assuredly be mistaken, for
there is One who knows all, and will, in His own
due time,  mete out even-handed justice to all
mankind, and at that tribunal, if no other, Mor-
mons will stand upon their merits, and prejudice
will not control the decisions of those higher
courts.  Inquiring for people familiar with the
building up of the city, we were directed here and
there, out of town and in, and met quite a number,
none, however, that we had known personally
during the time we had lived there.  We saw Dr.
Weld, who, as we remembered him, had been a
dashing young man, and rather fine looking, but
now weak and feeble.  He had lived there through
the Mormon period, had known Joseph Smith,
Hyrum Smith,Esquire Wells, Foster, Bennet and
the Laws; was familiar with the record of the
people, and is disposed to vindicate their cause
and defend their attitude in the attempt made to
defend their wives, their homes, and their sacred
trusts.  Such men are called in common parlance
"Jack Mormons," and were they living now in
the vicinity of Salt Lake would be considered
worthy of disfranchisement for sympathy with
"such notorious offeners."
	One cannot recognize much of a sameness to

[Column 3]

the Temple grounds of former days. The
Catholics have a church just north of where the
Temple once stood, and a small store stands on a
part of the Temple site, and a dwelling house al-
most adjoining. The well in the yard that was 
under the Temple at the east end is in use, and
the water is excellent. Visitors to Nauvoo are
very much in the habit of carrying away a bottle
of the water as a sort of memento of their visit,
now that the rock is just about disposed of, and
cannot be broken up to serve the purpose of relics.
There is a house on the south west corner of the
Temple block, that was built by the Icarians, from
the elegant polished stone from that edifice.
That building shows more of the rock than can
be seen anywhere else, though many people have
carriage steps and front door steps made of the
beautiful white polished granite, cut and prepared
by the Latter-day Saints in the days of their
poverty, to build a house unto the Lord. It seems
to us a perfect sacrilege to so deface, destroy and
convert to such base uses material consecrated by
the prayers and labors of the Saints. Across the
street west of the Temple block stands the old
Armory,now remodeled and converted into a Con-
vent for the education of young girls.  We visited
the Riverside Mansion, as it is called now,
but what was originally designated the Nau-
voo House. Major Bideman and his pleas-
ant wife occupy the premises. A great part
of the foundation has been torn away and there
still remains a large part of it standing not built
upon, on the north side. Here Emma Smith
once "the Elect Lady" spent the latter part of her
life in comparative quiet—once the honored wife
of the great leader of this dispensation, mistress
of the Nauvoo Mansion where the Saints congre-
gated around Joseph, the Prophet,sharing the love,
affection and confidence not only of her beloved
husband, but of the whole body of the people.
Sad indeed was her fate,separated from those
who were her best and truest friends, without the
strong arm of him she had been wont to regard
with love and reverence, she was indeed left deso-
late.  Her grave is near by, but unmarked, and
the stranger is not privileged to read upon her
tomb the story of her eventful life; no, nor even
her name.	
	One of the most interesting, and one of the
saddest visits we made was to the old graveyard
east of the city. There, as elsewhere, were the
traces of neglect and ruin. The trees had grown
up, and the falling leaves and undergrowth had
scarce left a token of the graves hidden in grassy
beds and mossy hillocks beneath. Occasionally
a headstone might be observed, but even of the
few that were scattered here and there, nearly all
of them were broken or defaced. The place was
more like a wooded pasture than a depository for
the sacred dead. There is not, perhaps, a spot
in the world where one has more tender and pa-
thetic feelings than among the tombstones that
mark the graves and hallowed dust of the depart-
ed, even though unknown to those who linger near
to meditate upon the common fate that awaits,
sooner or later, all mankind. Trees are the best
companions in such a lonely place, for they an-
swer the weird imaginings of the soul in sighs,
and moans, and whisperings, that breathe a sort
of sympathy in harmony with those whose hearts
are mellowed by the touch of sorrow, and the
pensive thoughts that rise spontaneously when-
ever one "muses on death's long dreamless
sleep."
	While sadly contemplating the situation of this
last resting place of many hundreds of the faith-
ful, we could not help thinking how graciously
nature had provided for these unmarked graves in
the luxuriant foliage of the majestic trees, that
must beautifully adorn the cemetery in the sea-
son thereof.  And the birds make their nests
in the branches, and usher in the early dawn with
their matin songs, and at evening twilight warble
softly, making melodious music in this solitary


wayside God's acre. Alone here, I offered a
silent tribute of gratitude to One above, that our
loved ones had been left undisturbed; and as I
went from one to another of the little graves, I
wept for the many mothers who, perhaps, like me,
had laid away their first born there, and not been
permitted to visit the sod and consecrate them-
selves anew to the work of God. Words cannot
tell the anguish of the young mother when she
consigns to the silent tomb the idol of her earthly
affections, and when she leaves behind the conse-
crated ground forever.
	After wandering up and down and listening to
the cold March winds, whistling among the dry
branches of the trees, we wended our way on
foot, for not even a carriage can pass through the
winding pathway, repeating from Tennyson's "In
Memoriam,"

	 In words like needs I’ll wrap me o’er,
		Like coarsest clothes against the cold;
		But that large grief which these enfold 
	 Is given in outline and no more.”

	Phinehas Kimball, Esquire, lives on the place
once quite famous for its beautiful grounds, near
the Nauvoo landing, formerly owned by Hiram
Kimball, his brother, whose widow and sons are
well known in Utah. The house has been greatly
enlarged, though the old part, as it is called, is
still standing and in good condition. Mr. Kimball
seems to be about the ablest, and we were told,
also, the wealthiest man in Nauvoo. He made
many inquiries about his old friends and acquaint-
ances, and spoke with particular affection of
Brigham Young. We were pleasantly entertained
at his house a part of the time, and both himself
and daughter drove with us at different times about
the city. There is a newspaper published weekly
called The Nauvoo Independent, but the outside
pages are not printed there; think of one weekly
paper and half of it not local print. In summing
up the sketch of Nauvoo, we must mention the
drawings in crayon we saw of the Temple after it
had been burnt, as it stood then in ruins, and of
the column or corner that stood alone to mark the
magnificent edifice after the wind had blown down
the main part left from the fire. They were per-
fect gems—taken on the spot by a German artist.
He would not part with them, and we entreated
him to have the drawings photographed, which
he promised to do.
	There is much more to tell, but the article is
already too lengthy, and we will take up the sub-
ject at another time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Conference at Provo, on the 4th, 5th, 6th
and 7th of April, will long be remembered by
those who were privileged to attend it, as a very
enjoyable and instructive one. At no time,
probably, since the Saints have been in the moun-
tains were there fewer of the General Authorities
on the stand. The quorum of the First Presiden-
cy was unrepresented, and only four of the Twelve
Apostles were in attendance. Those, however,
as well as all the other speakers, were inspired to
deliver words of comfort and admonition to the
people who assembled. The beautiful new Utah
Stake House was crowded to its utmost capacity,
and there was a depth of feeling on the part of the
Saints, which could not be mistaken or misunder-
stood by even a careless observer.
	The Epistle of the First Presidency, the reading
of which occupied some three hours, was a logical
and eloquent statement of our position before the
world. It abounded with sentiments calculated
to cheer the hearts and strengthen the faith of the
Latter-day Saints wherever they are found; it con-
tained a vast amount of practical instruction for
their guidance in the fulfilment of their duties, and
its sound reasoning and great strength,as an argu-
mentative defense, have caused it to be regarded


by outsiders, who have expressed an opinion on
the document as one of the ablest papers ever
put forth by the Church.


THE AX FALLING.

	Within the last few weeks there have been a
number of nominations to offices in the Territory
of Utah. The first to hand in his resignation,
which was not done, however, until it was asked
for, was Governor Murray, whose policy of ob-
struction during the late session of the Legisla-
ture, and open enmity to the best interests of
the community became at last so outrageous that
the national Executive was compelled to relegate
him to private life. He found a successor within
the borders of his own state—Kentucky—in the
person of Caleb W. West. Next in the order of
prominence and of general interest came the
humiliation of that brilliant legal light, Judge
Orlando W. Powers. President Cleveland was
shrewd enough not to wait until the Senate reject-
ed the nomination. He withdrew it before they
took any action on it. Marshal Ireland, of un-
savory fame and conspicuous effeminacy, was not
long left in doubt as to the feeling his course
called forth. The very day his term expired,
President Cleveland sent to the Senate the name
of his successor, Mr. Frank H. Dyer, of Park
City. In addirion to these, some other changes
have been made, which excite more or less inter-
est. Governor Ramsey, chairman of the Utah
Commission, who, it is said, has insisted on re-
signing for some time, has finally been relieved of
his duties as a member of that very useless but
costly piece of machinery. General McClernand
is named to fill his place. General McCook, who
has been in command at Fort Douglas for some
time past, has been "promoted," or at least
changed to Fort Leavenworth. So many changes
in so short a time have been very rare in the his-
tory of Utah.


RETROSPECTIVE.

	History is being made very rapidly nowadays in
Utah.  In after years it will almost seem incred-
ible that so many events of interest connected
with the Church could have transpired in so short 
a time. The Saints are having daily manifesta-
tions to convince them that the Lord meant what
He said when He declared that He would have a
tried people.
	During the last eighteen months great changes
have taken place, and the end is not yet. As if it
were not sufficient that ruffianly deputy marshals
were allowed to come and go and carry out the
mandates of the court in their own brutal and un-
seemly manner, influence was brought to bear to
secure the presence of a larger body of military in
our midst, and a portion of these were used to
bring to this city a captured and wounded prisoner.
The arrest and punishment of a man to the full
penalty of the law,for living with and acknowledg-
ing his wives, is not now considered sufficient, and
the "segregating" process is resorted to, accord-
ing to which any man who is considered guilty
once may be indicted a dozen times or more for
the same offense. The first wife, she who is con-
sidered by the world the legal one, is now com-
pelled, contrary to all principles of law, to testify
against her husband as to his family relations
"Raids" continue without any cessation, and it
would seem that no "Mormon" domicile is safe
from the intrusion of the minions of the court.
The people are indeed becoming a tried people,
and they are being compelled to learn the lessons
of patience and forbearance.
	On the other hand, God has been good to His
people.  He has brought them to this land of
plenty,and made their feet fast in the valleys of the
mountains.  The fruitful soil and streams of liv-
ing water have not been denied them, and in all


their outgoings and incomings, their existence in
these mountains has proved that the blessings of
the heavens and the earth have not been withheld.
They have abundant cause to be thankful, and we
believe they are.


NOTICE.

	Members of the Deseret Hospital Association
are respectfully notified that next month, May, is
the time for renewing their subscriptions. At-
tention to this notice will much oblige,
		H. B. CLAWSON, Prest.,
		E. HOWARD, Ass't Sec.


OUR CHILDREN.

	One of the most forcible remarks, at the late
General Conference, was made by Apostle John
Henry Smith, which was, in substance, that the
Latter-day Saints were probably under greater
condemnation for neglecting to teach their child-
ren the things of God and lead them in His ways,
than for any other thing.
	How this sentiment should strike home to the
heart of every father and mother in this Church,
as a reproof to some, a warning to others and a
new impetus to all.  Is there any other gift or
blessing which the Lord bestows upon us in this
life so precious as our children?  Emphatically
no!  And shall we, dare we, neglect this greater
gift, while we pet and foster lesssr ones?  Had
such neglect never been known among the peo-
ple of God in this dispensation, should we find
infidelity among the young in Zion?  I cannot
hink we would.
	And what must we teach our little ones, as a
afeguard against the insidious wiles of the de-
stroyer of souls?  Teach them this one principle
—pure, true, heavenly love.  Is love all, then,
that our children need to be taught? "Perfect
love casteth out all fear." Where no fear is
found, perfect confidence must be established.
What more remains to be done, that salvation
may be secured, where perfect love of God and
perfect confidence in Him exist?  Jesus said, "If
ye love me, ye will keep my commandments."
This comprehends the whole matter.
	If we so live that our children may love us as
they should, will they not follow our admonitions?
In almost every instance they will, and if our ex-
amples before them are blameless, though some
of them should go astray, we can feel that we are
free from censure.  We are not capable of teach-
ing our children the pure principle of love, if we
fail to make it the ruling attribute of our own
lives.
   Can a husband and wife who are in the habit
of disagreeing expect to see real harmony among
their children?  Love and harmony are not to be
enforced, they must live in hearts, or they cannot
sparkle from eyes or sp[-]ak from lips.  There are
some things that children may be compelled to do,
but there is only one way of educating them to
love one another and delight in doing each other
good.  This comes of constant training; and the
one best method in teaching it is by parental ex-
ample.	
   There is not a commandment which has been
given us of God, but is replete with love in all its
bearings.  And all our instruction to our children
should be given in the same spirit.  Parents
should never be afraid of letting their children
know how dearly they are beloved; this cannot in
any wise diminish the respect a child should feel
for a parent.  Yet some fathers and mothers seem
fearful of allowing the least familiarity with their
children, lest by so doing they may lose some
power of control.  I cannot think it possible that
such could be the result of loving thoughts, how-


ever freely they might be expressed. I believe
with Fanny Fern: 
	"Too much indulgence has spoiled many a
child; too much love not one."
		LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. T. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Eastern Arizona Stake was held at
Snowflake, March 12th, 1886, Prest. Emma S
Smith presiding. After singing and prayer,
the following ward societies were represented
by their respective presidents: Taylor, Show-
low, Woodruff, Snowflake Camp, Erastus, St. 
Johns and Snowflake. All were in a flourish-
ing condition. The sisters were united, and
felt a desire to build up the kingdom. The
statistical and financial reports were read,
showing the different branches to be in a bet-
ter condition than heretofore.
	Coun. Emily Lewis then spoke to the sisters,
giving good counsel and advice on subjects
of interest.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith spoke in regard to
the teachings children should receive from 
their mothers. Was grateful for the good re-
ports, and felt the Spirit of the Lord had been 
with us. 
	After singing, conference was adjourned for
three months. Benediction pronounced by
Bro. Oscar Mann.
		DELLA FISH, Secretary.

HOLDEN, MILLARD CO.
	Minutes of the fifteenth anniversary of the
Holden Relief Society, held in the meeting
house, March 15th, 1886, Prest. N. M. Ashley
presiding. Minutes of last annual meeting
were read, also statistical and financial reports.
The programme, consisting of songs, recita-
tions, dialogues, etc., was carried out as
arranged.
	Stake Prest., Elizabeth Yates, felt to en-
courage the sisters to go on in the good work.
She rejoiced in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
spoke of the necessity of relying upon the
Lord; advised mothers to train their children
to live in the fear of the Lord.
	Bishop D. R. Stevens gave much good coun-
sel, and dwelt a short time on the storing of
grain.
	Prest. N. M. Ashley and others each occu-
pied a few minutes, all encouraging the sisters
to diligence in their labors. After singing by
the choir, the benediction was pronounced by
A. P. Harmon.
		N. M. ASHLEY; Prest.,
		KATE STEVENS, Ass't Sec.
	Some ringing resolutions, as to the course
of Utah Federal officials in enforcing the law, 
etc., were adopted and forwarded; lack of 
space prevents their publications.—ED.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The ladies' quarterly conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Zion convened at Pima, 
March 19th, 1886, President Willmarth East
presiding. On the stand of the Stake authori-
ties were Prest. C. Layton and Counselors,
also Bishop John Taylor of Pima.
	After the usual opening exercises, the
minutes and reports were read and approved.
Verbal reports of the following wards were
given by their respective presidents; Pima,
Curtis, Graham, Central, Thatcher and Layton,
all of which were reported in good running 
order. 
	Prest. East and Coun. Ransome addressed
the conference, the leading subjects spoken up-
on being the persecutions of the Saints at the

[Column 2]

present time as compared with facts of ancient
history. The speakers referred to the Ladies'
Mass Meeting held in Salt Lake City recently,
and were proud to hear the mothers and
daughters of Zion stand forth in defense of
the most sacred principles ever revealed for
the exaltation of the human family. We
were urged to be humble and prayerful before
the Lord, attend our meetings, and to be ever
ready to respond to the calls made by those in
authority over us, that we may attain to that
degree of glory that is in store for the faithful.
The time was very limited, the afternoon being
devoted to the Primary, in giving reports and
receiving instructions. An excellent spirit
prevailed, and all felt well paid for and great-
ly blessed in attending. Conference adjourned
for three months.
		LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Sec. 

SEVIER STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It having been some time since we sent you
any report from this Stake of Zion, we respect-
fully submit the following:
	Our quarterly conference convened here on
the 12th ult., President Elizabeth Bean presid-
ing. The Spirit of God prevailed, much
excellent instruction was given and many
strong testimonies borne. Reports were re-
ceived from every branch in the Stake, num-
bering nineteen, which were very encouraging,
showing them to be in a prosperous condition,
and faithfully performing the noble mission
given them, of caring for the poor, attending
to and blessing the sick, aiding in the great
work of building Temples, storing grain against
a day of famine, and assisting in building up 
the kingdom generally.
	During the past year our Stake board of
officers have visited nearly every branch in
the Stake, encouraging and assisting them as
much as lay in their power, and feel happy in
being able to report that God has abundantly
blessed them in their labors, as also the differ-
ent branches of the Stake. A determination
exists among them to be faithful and true to
the covenants they have made, that the perse-
cution now so fiercely raging against us as a
people shall only tend to make us more united
and diligent in our efforts to serve God. We
honor and bless our worthy sisters who assem-
bled in mass meeting in Salt Lake City, for
their noble efforts to defend and preserve to us
our God-given and inestimable rights, and
from the depth of our hearts feel to endorse
and reiterate their sentiments. We are also
thankful for the EXPONENT, which is truly a
blessing to and an earnest defender of the
women of Zion. Ever praying for its success,
we subscribe ourselves,
	Your co-laborers in the cause of truth,
			ELIZABETH BEAN,
				Prest. Central Board,
			C. A. HUNT, Secretary.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
San Juan Stake was held at Bluff City, March
22nd, 1886. There were present on the stand
Prest. F. A. Hammond and Counselors,
Bishop Jens Neilson and Counselors, Prest.
Jane M. Walton and Counselors. Meeting
was called to order by Prest. Jane M. Walton,
who made a few opening remarks. She was
thankful that there was a Relief Society, and
knew it was of great benefit to the sisters and
also to the Bishops of the wards. She spoke
of the persecutions the Saints went through
when the Church was first organized, and also
of the present crusade the Saints were under-
going, and that we would have to be humble
and prayerful or we would not be able to
stand.
	Coun. Kisten Neilson and Josephine Wood

[Column 3]

also Coun. Margaret Haskell expressed their
joy in having a standing in the Church of
God and as members of the Relief Society.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond said he was pleased 
with the reports of the different wards, and
testified that the Relief Society was of great
benefit to a ward, which was not thoroughly
organized without them. There was a great
field of labor for the mothers of Zion, and
there was no end to their usefulness.
	Harriet Barton, Mary N. Jones, Martha Ham-
mond and Agnes Allen each bore a strong
and faithful testimony to the work of God, as
did also Elsie Neilson, Eliza Reed, Mary
Adams and Annie Decker. 
	Bishop Jens Neilson was pleased to have the
privilege of meeting with the sisters. He
knew that the mothers had more influence with
their children than the fathers, and encouraged
the sisters in their great work.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few closing
remarks, after which our conference adjourned
for six months.
		JANE M. WALTON, Prest.,
		JULIA N. BUTT, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE. 
	The thirtieth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was held
in the Tabernacle in Brigham City, March 
9th, 1886, Sister Harriet Snow presiding. Af-
ter the usual opening exercises, the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accept-
ed, and twenty-one written reports were read
by the Secretary.
	Sister Perry, Prest. of the Society at Three
Mile Creek, had not attended the two previous
conferences, but considered it a great privilege
to enjoy these meetings. Spoke of two good
faithful sisters who had lately died in her
ward. We ought to understand the principles
of our religion, that mothers may be able to
teach their little children to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things. Let us not
deceive ourselves in thinking we are something
that we are not. Exhorted the mothers to
guard their children well, remarking that we
took great pains in dressing the body, but
should take more pains to clothe the spirit and
lay up treasures in heaven. Miss Fannie
Graehl, Treasurer, read her financial report,
and made some interesting remarks.
	Sister Albertsen, President of the Bear
River City Society, said the good sisters in her
ward felt united and well-toward each other,
and hoped all would prove faithful. She was
followed by Sister Dewey, Prest. at Deweyville,
who bore a strong testimony. 
	Sister Harper, Prest. at Calls Fort, said
when we are persecuted, we draw nearer to-
gether. If at present we are not so united as
we ought to be, let us strive to do better, and
learn to guard each other's interest.
	Sister Watkins, President of the 4th Ward,
thought this a time that we should strive to
live faithful and be wide awake teaching our
children to pray and being prayerful ourselves.
	Sister Andersen, President of the 3rd Ward,
who had been sick several months, remarked:
It is said, those who leave father and mother
for Jesus' name sake, shall receive a hundred
fold again. This she had seen manifested, for
the brethren and sisters could not have been
more kind if they had been her own relations.
	After some concluding remarks from Prest.
Harriet Snow, conference adjourned until 2
o'clock.
	Afternoon session: Sister Susannah P. Booth,
President of the 1st Ward, was the first speaker:
"I think it is high time we have something to
draw us nearer together as a band of sisters.
In our meetings we are blest with the Spirit
of the Lord; our mission, as a Relief Society,
is to assist those who are bowed down with
sickness and sorrow, or in destitute circum-
stances."


Emilia D. Madsen thought some might be
tempted to say concerning our case, "If this is
the true kingdom of God, why does not the
Lord take care of His own?" But we should
remember Jesus Christ, "in whom the Father
was well pleased," who, when crucified between
two thieves, was tantalized by them with the
remark, "If Thou art the Son of God, save
thyself." It was for Him to submit to all
things, and it is for us to acknowledge His
hand in every trial.
	Mary E. Snow, President of the 2nd Ward,
spoke of the love and good feeling we beget by
working together for each other's interest.
	Bro. E. A. Box said, "The Lord has brought
pressure upon us to purify us, and if we do all
in our power to purify ourselves perhaps the
Lord will shorten the time. We out here in
the mountains are very apt to suppose the
world very learned, very wise, and ourselves
ignorant, but the world of mankind is not
learned; some few are, but the great masses are
not educated. One might study and attain
great wisdom, and still know nothing of God.
The wise men of the earth take all the honor
to themselves, but we give all the honor to 
God. We have lived here in peace for many
years, and it has been stated that hereafter,
when we associate with those who have suffered
persecution, even laid down their lives, we
would feel injustice was done to us, in that we
were overpaid."
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg said, "If we have
the Spirit of the Lord in our hearts, we must
feel that every word is true we have heard
here." She felt that the sisters of Brigham
City, as a whole, were trying to live their re-
ligion. In reporting the Scandinavian sisters'
association, she bore a strong testimony to the
work of the Lord.
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few concluding
remarks after which the conference adjourned
for three months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
A MORMON PETITION.
	Mr. Blair presented to the Senate yesterday
a long petition, sent to him from Utah and al-
leged to have been signed by women of that 
territory. It is understood that the petition
was written by a well-known Mormon attor-
ney, and is a device to gain sympathy for the
"Saints." This petition relates various alleged
circumstances in which United States officers
are said to have entered the bedrooms of Mor-
mon women to ascertain whether or not the
law was being violated.—Evening Star, April
7th.

THEIR PROTEST AGAINST WRONGS AND
GRIEVANCES.

		WASHINGTON, April 8, 1886.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING STAR:
	In the Evening Star of April 7th I find,
under the heading "A Mormon Petition,"
some errors stated that I am prepared to cor-
rect, in reference to the memorial of the
women of Utah recently presented in
the Senate of the United States by
the Hon. Henry W. Blair. The mem-
orial was drafted by a committee of
"Mormon" women, whose signatures were at-
tached to each engrossed copy, this committee,
having been nominated at a mass meeting of
over two thousand women from all parts of
the territory, while assembled to protest against
the wrongs and grievances under which they
are suffering from the maladministration of the
Edmunds law of 1882; and also against the
disfranchisement of the women of Utah, who

[Column 2]
have voted for sixteen years, and who are
not even accused of violating any law, and
other measures included in the Edmunds bill,
which recently passed the Senate of the
United States.
	"Mormon" women have, surely, some rights
left that ought to be respected, and one of
these is the right to petition the President and
the Congress of the United states for redress,
and of presenting to them and to the people,
facts and incidents in relation to the existing
condition of affairs in the Territory where
they reside, which are of vital importance to
the welfare of the community, and specially
oppressive in application to those mosst deep-
ly interested.
	The Edmunds law of 1882 is sufficiently
rigid when enforced, to satisfy those who are
really anxious to abolish "polygamy," and to
adopt harsher measures and add severity and
cruelty to the administration is not only an in-
justice to those already suffering punishment
but amounts to positive persecution.
	Do the American people forget that these
women, against whom such a pressure of cir-
cumstances is brought to bear at the present
time, are their sisters in the one great family
of the Union; and that they have human
hearts and affections as tender and true as
their own? Do they realize that it is simply
because of their religious faith, and for a prin-
ciple of it, which they hold to be sacred and di-
vine, that they are suffering these hardships?
If they do, is it not in the interest of humanity
to see that no cruelty is inflicted upon these
women and children, but that the law be hu-
manely and wisely administered by men who
have common sympathy and true respect for
motherhood and the purity of little children?
	That "Mormon" women are harrassed and
annoyed and insulted unnecessarily by un-
principled men employed as deputy marshals
and spies, who have no genuine respect for
womanhood, and think any measure will be
justified in dealing with the wives and daugh-
ters of "Mormons," is very apparent, and cer-
tainly calls loudly and should not call in vain,
for an investigation in regard to these offenses,
and a radical change in dealing with such a
delicate matter as the severing of family ties
and the breaking up of homes that were so
dear to those who toiled together to establish
them, and whose hearts are entwined around
each other so closely that to separate them is
to inflict a wound that only divine love can
ever heal.
	The incidents cited in the memorial referred
to are only a few of the many cases in which
insults and outrages upon propriety and even
common decency have been committed by
men who usurp authority in out of the way
districts and places, intimidating with threats
and in various ways defenseless women and
children. When at home in Salt Lake City I
am almost daily in receipt of letters from
different parts of Utah, Arizona and Idaho
giving information in detail of facts pertain-
ing to arrests, serving of writs, warrants and
the misconduct of these deputies and spies.
Houses are broken into in the night time, the
sleeping apartments of women are causelessly[-]
invaded and the occupants insulted. Whole
families are arrested and dragged before grand
juries, and women and children are terrorized
and interrogated in an indecent manner by
hectoring district attorneys and their assistants
in office. Do you think such things reasonable
because the women are "Mormons?"
	In the interest of motherhood, of young
women and children of tender years, and in
the interest of universal humanity, I appeal to
the mothers of America, and entreat them to
consider the situation in Utah, brought feel-
ingly and forcibly to their notice in the me-
morial just presented to Congress, and would
ask them to investigate the subject without

[Column 3]
prejudice, before further cruelties and greater
hardships are imposed upon a people already
suffering persecution for conscience sake.
	As one of the delegates sent here to present
the memorial of the women of Utah to the
President and to the Congress of the United
States, I felt called upon to reply to the un-
favorable notice of it in your paper; and as I
have been delegated on other occasions to re-
present the "Mormon" women at the national
capital and elsewhere, and am the editor of
the "Mormon" woman's paper, I feel author-
ized to speak in their behalf, and to defend
their interests in whatever way possible, and
especially at this time, when the flood of pre-
judice and misrepresentation is brought to
bear against them so heavily; and as the friend
of all who love justice and desire to protect
human rights, I remain, very respectfully, &c.,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editor "Woman's Exponent,"
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
From the Evening Star, Washington, April 10.


A MINUTE'S ANGER.

	Not long ago, in a city not far from New
York, two boys, neighbors, who were good
friends, were playing. In the course of the
game a dispute arose between the two boys, 
and both became angry; one struck the other, 
and finally one kicked the other, who fell un-
conscious in the street, was taken home, and
now for four weeks has suffered most cruelly. 
The doctors say that if he lives he will never
be well, and will always suffer and need the
constant care of a physician. If the boys had
been the greatest enemies they would not, 
could not, have desired a worse fate for each
other than this. But, instead of enemies, they
were friends and loving companions. Now
everything is changed. One will never be 
able to walk, or to take part in active games; 
the other will never forget the sufferings he
has caused. 
A minute's anger caused this.—Christian
Union.


VOTING BY PROXY.

	Long before the advent of Susan B. An-
thony or Mrs. Stanton as the champions of
woman suffrage, a law was enacted in Berne,
Switzerland, allowing women to vote by proxy,
but history has not yet recorded an instance
in which a woman has taken advantage of the
privilege, until at the last municipal election,
which occurred in November last. The libe-
rals being largely in the majority, the reaction-
ary party resorted to a piece of strategy to
gain the victory, not dreamed of by their op-
ponents. They quietly hunted up the old law
giving the right of suffrage, in matters affect-
ing the municipal affairs of Berne, to such
women as possessed realty, and succeeded in
carrying the election by ninety-seven majority
in a total vote of 4,260. The law provides
that the voting of the women must be done
by male proxies. About six hundred such
proxies were written the day before the elec-
tion. In commenting upon this surprise, a
liberal Swiss paper says that the victory gained
in such an "unmanly" manner will be proven
a barren one, as the election of a number of
new members to the council will take place
next December, when the liberals expect to
make use of the same persuasive arguments.


SLEEP AND WASTE OF LIFE.

	Sleep will do much to cure irritability of
temper, peevishness and uneasiness. It will
build up and make strong a weary body. It
will do much to cure dyspepsia, partionlarly


that variety known as nervous dyspepsia. It
will relieve the languor felt by consumptives.
It will cure hypochondria. It will cure the
headache. It will cure the neuralgia. It 
will cure a broken spirit. It will cure sorrow.
Now no man should do more work of muscle
or of brain, in a day, than he can perfectly
recover from the fatigue of in a good night’s
rest. Up to that point, exercise is good; be-
yond, are waste of life, exhaustion and decay.
When hunger calls for food, and fatigue de-
mands rest, we are in the natural order, and
keep the balance of life. When we take stimu-
lents to spur our jaded nerves, or excite an
appetite, we are wasting. There are wrong
and mischief in all waste of life. A man
should live so as to keep himself at his best,
and with a true economy. To eat more food
than is needful, is worse policy than tossing
money into the sea. It is a waste of labor and
a waste of life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WASHING-DAY HINTS.

	A practical housekeeper, writing to the
Congregationalist, says she has tested the fol-
lowing recipe for lightening the labor of wash-
ing-day, and recommends others to try the ex-
periment, being careful to follow the directions
exactly:
	Fill the boiler two-thirds full of water, and
shave a bar of good soap in it. When the
water boils, and the soap is dissolved, add two
tablespoonfuls and a half of kerosene oil. It
will immediately unite with the soap; and, if
you have been exact with the amount of each,
there will be no oil on the top of the water.
Now put the cleanest pieces, like table cloths
and napkins, without previous soaking or wet-
ting, loosely into the boiler. Do not put too
many pieces in at a time. Boil hard for ten
minutes, then rinse through two waters and
hang out to dry. Put more pieces in the same
boiler. Examine the articles of body clothing
after they are taken out, and, if not thorough-
ly cleansed, put them back in the boiler for
another ten minutes, or else rub lightly.
	If the washing is very large, there should be
a renewal of the soap and oil, but for an or-
dinary washing once is enough. In an hour
and a half the work is all done for a family
of six persons. The clothes are white as snow,
and there is not the wear and tear of the
clothing by rubbing, above all there is not the
wear and tear of nerves caused by disagreeable
labor, or by the more disagreeable and incompe-
tent washerwoman.


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS.

	Cistern water may be purified by charcoal put in a bag
and hung in the water.

	Glaze the bottom crust of fruit pies with the white of an
egg and they will not be soggy.

	Molasses Cookies.—Three eggs, two cupfuls of molasses,
one cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, and a heaping
teaspoonful of saleratus.

	If you have occasion to use cloths wet in hot water
about an invalid, do not try to wring them out of the water.
The best way to prepare them is to steam them; they can
then be handled with comparative ease.

	Antidote for Poison.—In any case of poisoning, swallow
instantly a glassful of cold water with a teaspoonful each of
ground mustard and salt stirred in. This is a speedy
emetic. When it has acted, swallow the whites of two raw
eggs.

	To prepare an egg for a sick person, beat the egg until
very light; add seasoning to taste, and then steam until
thoroughly warmed through. This will not take more
than two minutes.  The most delicate stomach will be
able to digest it.

	Orange For Layer Cake.—Grate four oranges, and add
he whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of water, and


one and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Boil the eggs, sugar
and water together for fifteen minutes; then mix in the
orange, and it is ready to spread.

	A very soft and pretty fringe for home-made rugs may
be obtained by raveling out the good parts of old stock-
ings and mittens. The crinkled appearance is a pretty
feature, and it lasts for years under ordinary wear. Ex-
cellent effects are obtained by mixing the colors.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in Ovid, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, March 19th,
1886, after an illness of twelve days, Mary Jane Skinner
Petersen. She was the eldest daughter of John and Jane
Skinner, and wife of John Petersen. Sister Petersen was
born in Genesee Co., State of New York, Feb. 22nd, 1861.
She leaves a husband and three children, the youngest
only twelve days old, and many relatives and friends to
mourn her loss.
	She was a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., and respected
by all who knew her. She died in full faith of the Gospel,
and in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
		NETTIE S. JOHNSON, Prest.,
		ELIZABETH A. SORENSEN, Sec.

	DIED, at Paris, Bear Lake Co., Idaho Territory, of a
paralytic stroke, on the 23rd of March, 1886, Matilda
Mary, eldest daughter of Robert and Matilda Price. She
was born at Williamsburg, N. Y., Jan. 3rd, 1857, and was
a faithfnl member of the Church of Jesus Christ. She
acted as Assistant Secretary of the Relief Society, First
Counselor in the Young Ladies' Association, President in
the Primary Association of the Paris Second Ward, and
teacher in the Sunday School. She was energetic, and per-
formed all of her duties promptly. Her greatest ambi-
tion was to gain knowledge and do good to others. She
leaves an invalid husband, to whom she has been a loving
and faithful wife, also many relatives and friends, who
sadly mourn their loss.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, March 10th, 1886, of Brights
Disease, Sister Mary Ann Newman, in the 76th year of
her age. Deceased was born in Langtorf, Lincolnshire,
England, 1810. Embraced the Gospel in 1848; emigrated
to the United States in December, 1850. She buried her
husband in St. Louis the following February. In the 
fall of 1853 she arrived in the valley with her children, and
has resided in this city until her demise. The Elders who
visited her home in Witham, England, remember her un-
bounded hospitality, for hers was a home indeed to them.
A faithful wife, a devoted mother, a true Saint and a firm
friend, she has gone to her grave esteemed and beloved by
all  She leaves two sons and one daughter, twenty grand-
children and one great-grandchild.
		Millennial Star please copy.


[Column 1]	
Class in Obstetrics.

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a Class in Obstetrics on
	May 3d, 1886, at 2 p.m., at her
	Office, No. 16 Main Street.
TUITION, per term,	$10.00.
	Dr. Shipp's office hours are from 10 a.m., to 5 p.m.
Her residence is 34 Seventh East Street.
	The doctor has given special study to Obstetrics and
Women's Diseases.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[Text on left side of drawing of sewing machine going sideways]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Text on right side of drawing of sewing machine going sideways]
Will do Finer of Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine.  It has been 
in the Market 23 Years.

	Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,	Old	Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	“Domestic.”

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

	Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,  
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

	AT	TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
