VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1886.	No. 20.


"GIVE THE MORMONS THEIR RIGHTS."

BY EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

	The following poem was read at the Ladies' Mass
Meeting on the 6th inst., and is published here instead of
in its proper place in the proceedings.

Must the "Mormons" be mute, when compassion is weep-
		ing?
	And sorrows unnumbered are right at our door?
Should "The daughter of Zion" be quietly sleeping—
	As if the dark day of her bondage were o'er?
Our wrongs and our cares—must we welcome as sweet?
Or walk into snares that are laid for our feet?

Like a whirlwind approaching, vile laws now are pending,
	If passed, all the pillars of Freedom will shake,
"Our cause is most just," yet it claims such defending:
	"The Women of Mormondom" needs must awake.
Thus we humbly petition Columbia's nation,
To frown on oppression and harsh legislation.

Our foes trouble little or nothing to mention,
	For "poor Mormon women" or down-trodden wives."
Were polygamy only the bone of contention,
	The "Mormons" might vote all the rest of their
Our foes may not count us smart, sensible folks:
But we see through their purpose,—contempt provokes

We prize not their pity, whose aim is to plunder
	A people who strictly to peace are inclined;
If the "Mormons" lose patience need any one wonder,
	Who considers o[-]r wrongs, by the crafty designed,
Yet they'll harvest disgrace where they hope for renown,
Who for power or place thrust the innocent down.

We appeal to the people in freedom's dominions—
	To the fair-minded millions who love what is right;
Must the "Mormons" be robbed for their faith and opin-
		ions—
	Crush'd and ground, 'twixt the millstones of greed and
		of spite?
Is it needful or lawful to wrest freedom from us
For what we believe, or for what we can't promise?

Our honor is priceless, our rights are all precious,
	Our affections are sacred, our households are dear;
Our husbands are heroes, in spite of the specious
	And wonderful (?) rulings of Judges so queer,
Who shift their decisions around and around;
Till for "Mormons" a verdict, of "Guilty" is found.

"The world loves its own" but it "hates us," and fights us,
	Our rights are withheld, and our friends are in prison;
Yet we never are comfortless, always the righteous
	"Through much tribulation" to glory have risen.
Let the spirit of fairness quench bigotry's fire;
Then the "Mormons" will reap all the praise they desire.

Foretold was our fate, of a truth "men revile us,"
	And the meanest of motives, our foes thus disguis'e;
Their black hearted falsehoods will fail to defile us,
	But the masses are misled by plausible lies. 
Alas! that such libels, so stript of the truth;
Are read more than Bibles, by thousands, forsooth.

If the vex'd "Mormon problem" must have a solution
	'Tis time something nobler than hate should be tried;
Sure, the "Mormons" have suffered enough persecution,
	Yet sustained by their faith they have lived, they have
		thrived.
The more they are slander'd—and hanted and driven—
The more they are prosper'd and favor'd of heaven.

Praise surely is due to the stout-hearted exiles—
	Who rescued from barrenness Utah's broad vales;
Who built all the bridges, and leveled the ridges
	And braved all the hardships such settling entailed.
God blessed our endeavor; He rescues us ever,
Though ev'ry thing fails, shall we doubt Him? No never.

Our homage we yield to the Lord our defenders,
	For manifold mercies, what less can we do?
"To Caesar" the Mormons, "submissively render

[Column 2]

	Whatsoever is just, whatsoever is due. 
But to those who would crush us or fleece us by law,
We can't for the life of us kneel down in awe.

To statesmen we turn, yea, we ask your protection,
	In the land that with blood was from tyranny freed;
Must the "Mormons" to-day be the only exception
	To the hosts, who can honor their conscience indeed?
Oh ye, whose brave fathers scaled freedom's proud heights
Concede to the "Mormons" their God-given rights.


[Column 1]	
	﻿“WOMAN AN INSTITUTION.”

	It is a gratifying thought that everywhere
there is a "discerning public," or we might see
oftener than we do, "the blind leading the
blind"—consequences, both "falling into the
ditch." I thought this when I read, some
time ago, a piece headed as above, copied from
the Atlantic New Era. I pity the writer, be-
cause I know he is only half alive, and it ap-
pears to me that the sun of his moral system
shines only on one hemisphere of his brain, 
hence his obliquity of vision and obtuseness in
understanding character and position; he seems
to desire to assert something original, but hard-
ly knows what, so he calls woman an institu-
tion. He seems never to have met or known
a woman who can blend the useful with
the ornamental, therefore we will take
it for granted that he knows nothing of a
well educated woman, one who knows her
place and tries to hold and embellish it, who
can train a child without "spanking" the sense
out of it, but simply because she has a right to
be obeyed, and will be; he only knows woman
in extremes, and his extreme is one that has
never learned the art of governing nor ruling
and cannot train her children without loud
talking and a copious supply of birch twigs. 
We believe in blending the prose and the
poetry of life; this is the true philosopher's
stone "that converts all into gold!" Our model
woman is indeed the model woman; his is not
perfect by any means, only in "sewing on but-
tons!" We kindly commit him into her care,
and request her to attend to him, for with all 
her wonderful capability, she certainly has left
him short in that appendage! 
	He may despise a Ristori, a Sigourney, a
Hemans, and probably he despices beauty and
sublimity everywhere, simply because he does
not comprehend anything glorious or heavenly; 
but he must be told that the universal world
has ever established the fact that such are
lights burning and shining to warm, cheer, ele-
vate and console, that refine and edify and set
the spirit free from the clay, that unlock the
heart and brain, that have been sealed up, and
let "the captives go free." Who would not pity 
the man or woman who was incapable of ap-
preciating the charms of such mighty souls?
	The domestic sphere is, of course, the theatre
of woman's peculiar role, but did God intend
her to be a domestic drudge? I fancy not. 
In the severe reproof given to her in the Gar-
den of Eden, when about to be ejected from it, 
labor is not named; that was especially man's 
punishment; but every true woman desires to
be a helpmate to her brother man, and she ever
is so. Can she not be so trained that she can
embellish the drawing room, the parlor, and 
the kitchen? and also the laundry, and even 
the scullery! Verily she can. We have seen
and known women, whose education had been
of the first order, whose minds had been formed
in the highest mold, and whose fingers would
fly over the keys of the piano, developing Mo-

[Column 2]
zart, Handel, Beethoven and others of like re-
nown in their most abstruse music, were paint-
ers and French scholars, yet whose same sweet 
hands could turn into all the mysteries of the
cooking department, the dairy, and heap the 
table with the work and adornment of their
own hands, and do the honors, too, with ad-
mirable grace and skill, and then the half of
their attainments are not told. Such women
never dream of stepping out of their sphere; 
they know themselves and their position, and
simply hold their own as a regnant queen in
their own domestic territory. 
	Joan of Arc is to them not an "institution," 
but a revelation; they know that God has ever
had His emissaries, and in dark seasons the
weakest instrument in His hands can wield the
power He bestows, and like Joan of Arc, carry
out the mission to which He has ordained them, 
and proud man has to stoop his crest and 
marvel, as in the case of the woman named; 
her episode is one of the most remarkable—an 
uneducated girl, yet she rose up like "one
having authority," declared her errand and
what the finale should be, and it was so, and
kings had to bow and succumb to her heaven-
decreed mission. 
	Poets have ever been the prophets, to warn, 
to cheer, to elevate and to chronicle the his-
tory of men and nations, writing it in poems, 
epics and lyrics; they possess an inspiration—
yes, if they live for it—a revelation of the Spirit
of God—where they have perverted this
glorious gift we would believe "their virtues 
were all their own, their faults those of their
education and country." Shut out the poets
from the world and one might say, "Let us
have winter all the time!" 
	But, oh! may women study and learn their
mission, that which God gave them, when He
said, "She shall be a helpmeet for man." He
alone can teach them by the whisperings of
His Spirit; let them turn their spirit eye with-
in themselves and study all the material that
lies there, often unknown to themselves; let them
gather it up and utilize it for the happiness of 
themselves and for the benefit of their familites
and associates; this will render them fit to be-
come the teachers of their children, and lay a
foundation of future excellence, that when
they become men and women they may be
qualified for important positions, may nobly
fight the battle of life, and reflect honor upon
their parents and all whom they are associated
with; there is also a rich reward for those who
take pains to cultivate the faculties with which
God has endowed His creatures. Such an one
can with truth echo the words of one of our
poets—"My mind to me a kingdom is!" A
broad field of beauty and happiness is ever
open to the mind that seeks knowledge from 
the many fountains of instruction ever open to
all who desire to drink at their s[-]reams and re-
cruit their minds, when the body is worn down
with labor and the sterile cares of this work-a-
day world. It is good to be self-reliant, self-
controled, and self-disciplined; then we are in-
dependent and trouble no one. We have a
right to feed our mind with every aliment 
that it craves and that is within our reach, law-
fully to attain, and it is our imperative duty
to do so. Let us take the honey bee for our 
prototype, that gathers from every source, often
the opposite of beauty and sweetness, yet by
her alchemic art, she turns all into "nectarious
gold." "Knowledge is power," and if rightly
applied, produces happiness and wealth of


every kind. How often have I echoed the
the sweet lines of Watt's hymn:

	"Thanks to my friends for their care in my breeding
	Who taught me betimes to love working and reading."
		HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

CLEVELAND AND DEMOCRACY.

A DEMOCRATIC ORGAN ON THE SITUATION—
NO HOPE OF BETTERING A BAD CONDITION.

	The time has come for plain and honest
speech. The hope of bettering a bad condi-
tion of things by patient forebearance, by ap-
probation for all that could be approved. and 
by the desire to avoid every cause of probable
difficulty, has induced Democrats to withhold
truths that can no longer be properly con-
cealed from public view. Candid considera-
tion of them may possibly provide a remedy
for existing evils.
	A year has passed away since Mr. Cleve-
land was inaugurated as President, under
cheerful and encouraging auspices. The
party was united and the outlook was satis-
factory when he entered the White House.
The situation to-day, compared with what it
was on the 4th of March, 1885, is sadly al-
tered.
	It is not necessary to enquire into the causes
which have brought about this serious change.
The fact exists that there is no cordial confi-
dence, familiar communication, nor political
cohesion between the President and the Demo-
crats in Congress. They have been drifting 
apart gradually, until it may be said the line
of separation between them has become broad
and marked. The President's want of experi-
ence in national affairs, and his slight ac-
quaintance with public men, are doubtless
responsible for some of the errors into which
he was unconsciously enticed in the beginning of 
his new career. The composition of the cabi-
net illustrates one important mistake
which the omission of the names of Mr. Thur-
man and other distinguished Democrats made
conspicuous, and provoked criticism without
regard to party.
	In the limited distribution of patronage the
President has suffered, as all his predecessors
of late years have suffered, by either wilful or
accidental deception. The discovery of this
practice made him suspicious in other cases,
and by slow degrees a mutual distrust has
grown up which now appears as a threatening
danger to the Democracy.
	A series of singular successes in a brief
career has undoubtedly produced the belief in
the President's mind that his whole course has
been acceptable to the people, and that how-
eve politicians may disagree with him. he is
always sure of that support. This conviction
strengthens the self-assertion which seems to
be natural to his character, and is firmly and
bluntly maintained against arguments and
mild protestations when differences are dis-
cussed.
	The President has laid down for his own
guidance a chart of policy, so far as the pub-
lic offices are concerned, from which he will
not depart without a complete change of pur-
pose. He has announced it with repeated
emphasis in the application of the civil-service
law and rules, but in other respects he is ex-
tremely reserved
	There are many vacancies now existing in
important offices, some of which are temporari-
ly filled under the law by judges of the Federal 
courts, for which the President has thus far
declined to make nominations. He gives
no reason for this abstention, and
answers no inquiries concerning the ap-
plications, except in the most inconclusive
way.
	Mr. Cleveland's habit of extreme caution as
often misses as hits its intended mark. He de-

[Column 2]

lights in surprises, and in the most seemingly
indifferent way he is constantly seeking infor-
mation concerning persons who have been
proposed for appointments at home or abroad.
Sometimes he accepts opinions that might
better be disregarded.
	These methods have estranged leading
Democrats who do not admire the President's
peculiarities and do not fully appreciate the
circumstances in which he is placed. He has 
not invited his fellowship, and they have not
felt themselves justified in seeking confidence
that the President had the power to bestow,
and which he alone could imitate.
	The fault on the part of the President may
be ascribed to their constitutional organization
and to the habits of his life. The fault on the
part of the Democrats is that they failed to
see the obstacle in the path of a good under-
standing, and therefore could not remove it
by an effort which would not have compromised
their dignity.
	As a consequence of this misapprehension,
or unfortunate disagreement, there has come
to be a cold and ceremonious relation between
him and the party in Congress, with which he
should be on the most cordial terms. It may
almost be described, if applied in the aggre-
gate, as a positive estrangement. Of
course, there are personal exceptions, as
there always will be in such cases, while fa-
vors reward submission.
	At the last reception given by the Presi-
dent, with a display of elegant and costly 
decoration that astonished some of the accus-
tomed visitors at the White House, there were
not a dozen members of Congress present.
The absence of many Senators especially had
been noticed on a previous occasion, but in
this instance the non-attendance was as marked
as when the Whigs cut John Tyler and refused
absolutely to cross the threshold of the Exe-
cutive Mansion under any form of invita-
tion.
	This state of things cannot continue with-
out damage to the Democratic party,
which should stand, in patriotic consideration,
above the President and above members of
Congress. The great cause and the principles
which that party represents, and which are
identified with the progress and perpetuity of
free institutions, must not be imperiled be-
cause of these differences, which ought to be
quickly adjusted.
	Hence it is gratifying to know that a con-
ference between accredited leaders and the
President will soon take place, at which the
points of disagreement will be frankly dis-
cussed, and with a hope of a clearer under-
standing. With proper explanations and
mutual concessions, a perfect agreement ought
to be reached. Whoever stands in the way of
harmony will certainly be the loser in the
long run. The Democracy can forgive much,
but treachery they will not forgive.—New
York Sun.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		KOOSHAREM.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of this place held their
annual meeting February 10th, 1886. The
house was decorated with the pretty and use-
ful work of the young ladies, the time was
spent in listening to songs, essays and recita-
tions by the members of the association, and
we also received some good instructions from
the leading brethren of our settlement; they
were well pleased to see the young ladies do-
ing so well; the spirit of the Lord was with us
and all seemed to feel well. On the 12th of Feb-
ruary we had a very pleasant time; a few of
us gathered at the house of sister Barbara.

[Column 2]

Bailey, while she was out at her daughter's
for a short time, it being her 70th birthday
It gave her a surprise on her return home to
find her table spread with the good things of
the earth. There were some small presents
given to her, and the boys turned out and
hauled her 3 loads of wood and cut it all up
in the afternoon. We spent the afternoon
with her and all went home rejoicing and will,
no doubt, always remember the pleasant time
they had.
		MARY A. HATCH, President,
		JOSEPHA O. WRIGHT, Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of Relief Society of
Utah County held Feb. 26th, 1886, President
John presiding, with Counselor Marilla
Daniels. We were also favored with the com-
pany of Sister S. M. Kimball, from Salt Lake
City. Conference opened by singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former Confer-
ence and reports of the County, etc.
	Sister John felt well in meeting with the
sisters in Conference once more, and thought
we were doing a good work. We know this
is the Kingdom of God, and feel that the
Lord is blessing us here in Provo. Urged all
to be faithful, and exercise their faith for our
brethren that are in bondage and exile. At
the request of S. M. Kimball, a few of the
sisters sang, "I had a dream." Sister Kimball
followed. She asked, "how shall we get this
oil that we cannot buy with money. We are
the only women on earth who have a steward-
ship conferred on them, and it should be our
study and prayer that we may be enabled to
magnify our callings honorably. Let us honor
those who are called to preside over us and
pray for them. It will be found a power in
their behalf. We must seek to build up and
not pull down. Let us cultivate a spirit of
peace, for our strength lies in the power we
have with God." After singing, conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session: Conference opened with
the usual exercises, Sister Goodman spoke
in the interests of the silk association of Utah
County. Sister S. M. Kimball followed with
a few remarks on the same subject, and coun-
seled the sisters if they could not succeed in
the undertaking to ask aid of the brethren.
She related some of her experiences in the
Relief Society, and in regard to Society build-
ings; said she had the honor of laying the
first corner stone of the first Relief Society
building that was built in this dispensation
and Brother Joseph gave the first five dollars
that was given towards establishing a fund
for the Relief Society. Brothers Taylor and
Richards followed with the same amount each
and Brother Joseph said that hereafter every-
thing he gave to the poor should go through
that channel, etc. She thought the name of
Brother Beck should be placed on record for
his generous donation of twelve hundred dol-
lars to the Relief Society house of Lehi Ward.
	Prest. John, the next speaker, said woman's
mission was never more important than at the
present time. "The Lord is purifying His
people and He will try us to the core. Let
us be careful how we judge each other until we
are tested ourselves. This is not a dark day
for Israel, but a day to test us and the nations.
Let us be faithful to our covenants, for we
have more than fifty millions on our side."
	Prest. H. H. Cluff spoke on unity and obe-
dience and thought we would do well to think
on those subjects. He spoke of the necesstiy
of concentrating our time and means if we
wish to accomplish anything. He spoke also
in the interest of the Stake tabernacle.
After singing conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by D. Graves.
		O. DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRANDMOTHER'S GARDEN.

I've been back to grandmother's garden,
	Where the dear old flowers grow,
That she planted there and tended,
	In the summers long ago—
The sweet, old-fashioned flowers
	That used to delight her so.

There are lilacs by gate and doorway,
	And lilies, all in a row,
Whose blossoms we fancied trumpets
	For fairy bands to blow;
And southern-wood, spicily fragrant,
	By the doorstone, worn and low.

Pinks that are rich with odors
	Of clove and myrrh are there;
And I seem, when I smell their fragrance,
	To be in the house of prayer
In grandmother's pew, on Sunday,
	Close by the pulpit stair.

I can see her there with her hymn-book
	Open at "Wells" or "Mear,"
With a bunch of her garden "posies"
	Between the leaves, and hear
The voice that has sung in heaven
	For many and many a year.

Grandmother gave her flowers
	To crown the maiden's head
When she stood at the marriage altar,
	And a wife's "I will" was said.
And they came to her for blossoms
	To shut in the hands of the dead.

I remember the summer morning
	When grandmother heard the call,
Of the angel of death, whose summons
	Will some day come to us all;
The June's first roses were blowing
	Down by the garden wall.

"How sweet they are," she whispered,
	"What dear things God has made:
I am going to dwell in His country,
	Where the roses never fade."
Then she folded her hands on her bosom,
	And it seemed as if she prayed.

She looked so peaceful and happy,
	With her hands clasped on her breast,
Holding the flowers we brought her,
	That we fancied her taking a rest;
'Twas the rest that's forever and ever,
	Of all the sweetest and best.

Over her grave in the churchyard
	Her dear old flowers blow;
But I think of her out in the garden
	Of God, where His lilies grow;
And I fancy she tends His flowers
	As she used to here below.

		EBEN E. REXFORD.


OUR CHILDREN.

	It is a great boon to the rising generation,
that the old custom of "telling ghost stories"
and "witch stories," is pretty much abandoned.
And it is to be greatly hoped that it may
never be revived. Pleasant and true stories
are the best for the little ones to become inter-
ested in. Those things which awaken and lay
claim to their earliest thoughts and imagina-
tions are sure to continue with them though
all their lives; and, without doubt, have some
effect even upon the after life, inasmuch as
words and actions are influenced by impres-
sions made on the human mind.
	In connection with this subject, it may be
observed how very important it is that little
ones should be early taught to pray. Chil-
dren who, as soon as they can talk, are taught
to call upon their Heavenly Father for favors
which they can understand no one else is able
to grant, to thank Him for their lives, for
health and strength; to look to Him as one
interested in all their little affairs and what-
ever concerns them, as much or even more
than the "papa" whom they believe in as the
man among men; children thus taught rare-


ly if ever forget or turn aside from their early
instructions. They have a sure hope to cling
to through all their lives, which will buoy
them up under the most trying circumstances;
a hope, a faith that is worth more than every-
thing else without it.
	If correct ideas of the Eternal Father and
His attributes are planted and fostered in the
infant mind, all after instructions of a worthy
nature will be more readily received. The
child who has been brought to a realization of
the great mercies, to all that lives, manifested
by the Creator of the earth and its creatures
will be quick to comprehend why he should
be kind, gentle and forebearing in his treat-
ment of all things with which he is associated.
	Here it may be appropriate to refer to the
subject of kindness to dumb creatures as a
principle which should be early aud deeply
impressed upon the minds of the young.
From a lengthy and highly interesting letter
upon this subject by the same lady resident of
the Isle of Wight lately quoted in these
columns, the following story is taken; which,
though not a pleasant one, is true, striking and
instructive.
	The lady writes: "I will mention another
instance which happened here.
	Two men, (so called,) deprived a frog of its
two front legs, and then amused themselves
watching the struggles of their helpless vic-
tim in the dust, on its hind legs only. Mean-
while, a poor lady had earnestly besought and
remonstrated with them on the unhappy
creature's behalf, but all to no purpose, sub-
jecting herself to insult in vain.
	A fortnight after, one of these wretches
was drawn into some machinery, escaping in-
deed with his life, let us hope to repent, but,
with the loss of both his arms!
	This story proclaims its own moral; and it
would be well if those who show themselves
deaf to all appeal to feeling, who seem,
indeed, to have no feeling to appeal to, would
accept the possible consequences to themselves,
remembering that there is such a word as
retribution."
	The thought occurs that if those men,
(so called,) who are now depriving many of
our innocent little ones of their fathers, at
least, for the time being, and many blame-
less wives of their husbands, would take such
lessons as the above to heart they might re-
pent of their evil deeds in time to escape some
of the terrible calamities awaiting them.
		LULA.


DRINKS AT THE CAPITAL.

THE POPULAR BEVERAGES, INTOXICATING AND
OTHERWISE, AT WASHINGTON RECEPTIONS.

	Some ladies in Washington who have large
receptions one afternoon of each week, and
who have been in the habit of having punch
always for their guests, have lately substituted
lemonade, and have found that their visitors
seem to enjoy the change. One of these
hostesses says she is beginning to think it un-
wise to offer punch to young ladies and gen-
tlemen. One lady says she puts three bottles
of claret, one of champagne, one of whisky,
and half a bottle of rum into the punch she
makes for her reception each week. That
surely would seem an injudicious concoction
to offer to young people. "I hear," lately ob-
served a lady in conversation on the above sub-
ject. "that Mrs.—— has given up altogether
having punch at her receptions. Now, hers
used to be the strongest punch and furnished
in the largest quantities on reception days of
any in Washington." "Yes, and it is so now,"
answered a young gentleman. "I suppose the
report that she had ceased to have it originated
from the fact that she had no punch at her re-
ceptions the first two weeks of the season, but


that was only because she had lent her punch-
bowl to a neighbor, who was having a card re-
ception on each of her first reception days."
By this it will be seen that Washington is
nothing if not neighborly in the truly rural
sense.
	The punch at the teas given from 3 to 6
Thursdays in February by Representative
Scott's daughter, Mrs. Townsend, was made of
Apollinaris water, champagne, and arrack.
Mrs. Townsend also had tea, coffee, and bou-
lion at these receptions, the latter being served
piping hot in a cut-glass pitcher, and this bev-
erage seemed to find favor of all on chilly
afternoons.
	Secretary Whitney is the first member of
the Cabinet for a number of years who has had
champagne at a reception. He furnished it in
liberal quantities at his New Year reception,
and did the same at the evening receptions he
and his wife gave Thursdays in February. No
other member of the present Administration
has had wine at his large receptions, though
claret punch is usually provided at the Wed-
nesday afternoon receptions, at Cabinet houses.
Secretary and Mrs. Endicott commonly have
no other drink than tea when they receive by
day or evening.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many a small man never ceases talking
about small sacrifices he makes; but he is a
great man who can sacrifice everything and
say nothing.
	Let any man in middle life look over the
list of those he has known and ask himself
whether those have always succeeded best
whose minds were most intent upon success.
	It is better that joy should be spread over
the whole of the day in the form of strength
than that it should be concentrated into ecs-
tasies full of danger and followed by reaction.
	The Vermont people have built a forty-five
degree toboggan chute and named it after Sena-
tor Edmunds. Now let the Illinois people
build a horizontal one, and name it after Col.
Morrison.
	One of the chief benefits of conversation is
that each can learn that which his companion
knows and he does not; but this benefit can
come only to the modest and receptive mind.
Most of the argument held by persons of op-
posite views is quite futile for the want of this
mental condition. The object is not to find
out the truth about the mooted subject, but to
shine and to conquer. Neither party becomes
wiser, neither is convinced. The triumph of
one and the humiliation of the other are alike
fruitless, and more or less unpleasant feeling is
left behind. A thorough defeat taken in the
right spirit is more really valuable to the truth-
seeker than twenty victories that only feed
vanity.
	Lazy people it is said, die young. Those
who are active in body and brain, as a rule
live to old age. Brain exercise and a good
deal of it, invigorates the body. As the arm
of the blacksmith develops muscle by its stal-
wart strokes, the brain increases in size and
vigor by judicious use. It is the reservoir of
energy to the rest of the body, and as it gains
in power, greater vitality and a stronger hold
on life are the result. Torpidity, inertness and
inactivity or irregular, fitful exercise of the
brain, are on the other hand forerunners of 
mental and physical degeneration. Avoid
stagnation then. Give both mind and body
plenty to do. Rust gathers in the wake of
idleness. Keep all the faculties bright and
polished by constant use, that life may be
happy and healthy, and old age a crown of
glory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
	KIRTLAND AND NAUVOO.

	Prolific topics these! When one has a lofty
subject one feels most keenly the inability to give
adequate expression in the delineation of the
theme. And when one sees Kirtland and Nauvoo
both within a week's time, going over each place
with a tenderness almost amounting to reverence,
as if treading upon holy ground, silence is the best
offering one can make at such a time. That is
very well for the individual person, but of what
benefit is it to others, and what about those who
expect something more expressive than silence—
the eager public, who are anxious to hear observa-
tions one will make upon these noted cities of the
Saints, each of which flourished for a time as the
"Latter-day Zion;" in both of which a Temple has
been erected to the Most High God, and where
sacred ordinances have been performed by those
having authority through the holy priesthood.
And when reflecting upon this subject one cannot
help mentally asking, "Where now are all the
great assemblies of the Saints of former days, who
met and worshipped in these consecrated places?"
and the winds echo,"Where, indeed?" And alas!
who can tell? Some have lain down to sleep in
"the valley of the shadow of death," and their
spirits have gone "beyond the gates," to preach
to the spirits in prison, or to associate with the
great company of the departed. Some, perhaps,
after having received the good word and tasted
the "bread of life," have fallen away and mingled
again with the world they had once renounced.
Others have kept the faith and still live, have en-
dured much tribulation, counting not the cost, for
the glorious hope within, and have added to their
wisdom, treasures of knowledge from time to
time, as the Lord has revealed Himself through
His prophets. Some have been slain for the
word of God and the testimony of Jesus, and
others have died from the hardships and privations
endured in the pilgrimages consequent upon the
persecutions through which the Saints have been
called to pass.
	Of that great company, that vast and solemn
assembly that gathered in the Kirtland Temple in
those early days, "but few remain" to tell the
story. Historic names indeed are Kirtland and
Nauvoo. They thrill the pulses of the Latter-day
Saints, and call up a thousand tender recollections
whenever the names are uttered among the people
who know the facts and incidents connected there-
with.
	Do those who live to-day realize what the early
founders of this "Mormon" empire did for them?
They opened the way, they ushered in the new
dispensation, they laid the foundation, they heeded
not the consequences, they bore the scorn, the
contumely, the hate, and withstood the threats,
the fury of mobs, the treachery of false friends
and brethren. How little the present generation
think and appreciate what has been borne and
suffered by the early disciples of the Church in
these last days. It has been freely given, and ac-
cepted as a natural inheritance, as a child receives

[Column 2]
by rightful dower his father's wealth, without
considering the toils, the struggles and privations
which were encountered in its accumulation. Is
it right to be unmindful of the blessings so dearly
earned, and be guilty of the sin of ingratitude for
the want of earnest thought and a just apprecia-
tion of those who spent their lives and substance
in the establishment of the kingdom of God upon
the earth? Let us trust not; let us hope for better
things, and strive to show by works faithfully per-
formed that the good example of those early
pioneers in Zion's cause has stimulated us who
live to-day to more earnest endeavors in the pur-
suance and support of a sublime faith and active
devotion for the great cause so heroically main-
tained at the risk of all that was near and dear, and
even life itself.
	Leaving Cleveland by the Lake Shore and
Michigan Railway we soon arrived at Willoughby,
were, by private conveyance, we proceeded to
Kirtland. As the road was entirely new to the
writer, none of the old land-marks were particu-
larly interesting as they would have been to those
who had gone over and over the road in times past,
but Little Mountain was pointed out (and little it
was, indeed, to one accustomed to gazing upon
the stupendous mountains of the Wasatch range),
as rather a striking feature among the tame
scenery of the open country, and, alas! mentioned
as a summer resort for picnics and so forth. At
a turn of the road, the Temple became visible, and
knowing the building well from the pictures we
had seen, it was at once recognized. How strange
it looked, standing as it does in bold relief apart
from all else, as though it had no connection with
the surrounding objects, grant, though plain in
architecture, and old in its appearance, even a
stranger could not but imagine it had a history.
To one who knew the circumstances, it possessed
almost a fascination. As the carriage drew nearer,
houses, barns and trees became more distinct;one
could get an excellent view of the town on that
side, or, as it is commonly designated, the Kirt-
land Flats. Driving into the town direct we sort
of instinctively recognized the residence and store
of Newel K. Whitney, formerly Presiding Bishop
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints; also the Johnson tavern, as hotels in the
country were usually called. We drove up to the
platform in front of the store and there alighted,
just where Joseph Smith the Prophet did when he
came to Kirtland in 1831, when he addressed N.
K. Whitney as he stood behind the counter in
those memorable words, "I'm Joseph the Prophet;
you've prayed me here, now what do you want of
me?" All this and a hundred other memories of
the dead rushed to mind, as we stood like one en-
tranced gazing upon that historic city. Crossing
the street from the store, we knocked at the door
of the house on the corner opposite, assured it
must be the one we had heard spoken of so often
by Bishop Whitney and his venerable wife,
Horace, Sarah and the young boys, as "our
home in Kirtland." A sweet-faced young woman
with her first baby was living there, and after so-
liciting the privilege of going through the house,
she very kindly allowed us to reconnoitre every
nook and corner. Here indeed one might well re-
call those touching lines of Tom Moore's,

"I feel like one who treads along
Some banquet hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but me departed."

	We lingered as long as we dare in each room
(for the young woman possibly though it passing
strange), recalling the incidents we had heard re-
lated of "the old homestead," and especially in
"mother's room," as it was invariably referred to
by all the Whitney family. Over this particular
room was the chamber where Joseph had been
lodged as an honored guest on his first arrival in
Kirtland, and where he had oft retired to meditate
and to write, and to receive communications from

[Column 3]
the Lord. Entering that room, passing over the
threshold was "like standing upon holy ground."
One's emotions must indeed be under perfect con-
trol not to be strongly wrought upon. To one
very susceptible to spiritual impressions, it is no
wonder if the feeling was akin to reverence. How
could it be otherwise? Here had sat the great
Prophet and leader of the last dispensation of
the fulness of times. In that very room he had
received some of the most important messages
from the Almighty concerning the Latter-day
work. In this humble place had been gathered in
council some of the men who were the strongest
pillars of the Church in its early organization.
Here they had called upon God in fervent prayer,
here they had sought Him for wisdom and divine
help. O, "it was good to be there," to meditate
upon things that had transpired in that little room
that had been dedicated to God again and again
by His servants and handmaidens. Now it was
empty and deserted, a fitting place, it looked, for
bats and owls to congregate; cobwebs and dust
had accumulated until one could scarcely see
from its windows, and no use was made of it
whatever. Nothing remained of all its former
greatness or its uses, and none there could tell the
story of what had transpired within its walls, or
proudly testify of its distinguished occupants. All
was gone, and the men who once sat there in
council are now engaged in another field of labor
behind the vail.
	We went into the Whitney store afterwards,
which seemed to have been kept in good repair,
and after taking a look around and asking a few
questions of the bystanders, we walked out upon
the platform that faced the Temple Hill and took
a survey of the town as it could be seen from
there, then walked on, in preference to riding up
the hill, where so many hundreds, perchance
thousands, had gone to the Temple to worship
God. Once there, we succeeded, after some time,
in finding a guide to show us through the Temple.
Those who have visited such sacred places will
realize with what peculiar feelings we trod those
deserted halls, and wended our way up and down
the large and commodious rooms, taking specia
pains to note the stands at each end of the assem-
bly rooms for the several quorums of the priest-
hood to sit in their regular order. We climbed to
the very top and looked out upon the scene, and
while thus engaged, the mind grasped as much as
possible of the wonderful events that had tran-
spired in that vicinity of which we had read and
heard from those who participated in the develop-
ment of "the marvelous work and wonder," which
grew up in that region of the country.
	Leaving the Temple, after registering and being
told of young Joseph's great expectations con-
cerning the future of the people of Utah, and so
on, we wandered through the graveyard near
there, reading the inscriptions upon the tomb-
stones, many of them broken and much defaced,
and from there to Father Bond's, as we had been
told the Bond's could tell everything about Kirt-
land as it was formerly. Father Bond was a
member of the Church in New York State in a
very early day, and has kept the faith. He is now
eighty-eight years old, and very feeble. He made
inquiries about several people whom he knew long
ago, and related some facts and incidents,referring
frequently to such men as Brigham, Joseph and
Lorenzo Young, Judge Snow, Bates Nobles and
others of note. Miss Mary Bond, his daughter,
a maiden lady, and once an intimate friend and
playmate of Helen Kimball's (now Whitney), did
most of the talking. She is very delicate, but is
bright and intelligent. She said, among other re-
marks made by her during the interview, "If I
accept Moses as a prophet of the Lord, I must
also accept Joseph." This Sister Mary made a
very forcible impression upon the writer; she is
in some respects singular in manner and original
in her expression of views, and fragile in appear-


ance, being an invalid—perhaps a trifle crude, but
she is evidently a character which one must recog-
nize as a type among women. She is very small, 
her hair is short, and almost as white as the driven
snow, but when she talked of her childhood and
the people who figured conspicuouslly in the 
Church of Kirtland, her delicate face was all
aglow, and her eyes, sparkled with enthusiasm.
So striking was her voice and manner, and so
pathetic the picture she formed in my mind, with
the aged father and his sublime faith and confi-
dence, both of them seeming, as it were, so near
"the gates ajar," that it was "as though we had
seen a vision."
	Our destination after leaving the Bonds was the
farm and residence of the Reverend Samuel F.
Whitney, the brother of N. K. Whitney, who
has resided in Kirtland between fifty and sixty
years. This ends hastily, perhaps, but it must
suffice for the present, as the subject is much too
elaborate for one article.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	VISIT TO BLACKWELL'S ISLAND.

	As perhaps many of our readers may not know
much about this island, it may be stated that it is
in the East River, and is a long, rather narrow
strip of land, belonging to the City of New York.
It is one of a group of islands that are all used
for public purposes, but of these, Blackwell's Island
seems to be the principal one and most conspicu-
ous. It is quite imposing in its appearance, owing
to the style of its architecture and the sea walls
around the shores, which are stoutly built of dark
grey granite. Most of the buildings on the Island
are of the same material, and have a rude battle-
mented sort of appearance, and remind us of
what we read of the feudal castles and towers of
the olden times. The stone is quarried on the
Island, and the labor has all been done by con-
victs.
	The principal buildings on this Island are the
Penitentiary, the Lunatic Asylum for women, the
Alms House for men, and the Alms House for
women, the Work House, Blind Asylum, Charity
Hospital, Hospital for Incurables and Convales-
cent Hospital. The buildings are all in good condi-
tion, and great pains is taken to have the most
perfect order and cleanliness observed. Neverthe-
less it is very distressing to a sensitive person to
see so much misery gathered together in one place.
Never can we forget the sights of that day, going
alone, without a friend to whom we could give
expression to thoughts and feelings that will al-
most force themselves into words when one looks
upon so much human suffering and degradation.
On the boat which conveyed the people, there
were quite a number of passengers, but
they, with only a few exceptions, were persons
going to see some particular friend or relative in
one or the other of these institutions.
	The first thing that drew special attention was
an old man who had twin babies in his arms, care-
fully wrapped in an old shawl, taking them over to
Blackwell's Island to the Infants's Hospital, as his
ticket stated. He was German, and could not
speak English enough to tell whose children they
were, but he seemed very tender of them and
proud to show them—two fine boys, and the ticket
said five days old; also giving the name of each.
An old Irish woman who belonged to the boat,
when she saw the ladies so interested in the babies
asked if we would like to see the women prisoners,
who were down stairs locked up, and when the 
ladies said, "yes," she took us down and let us 
look in through a little window; there were four-
teen of them going to the workhouse—a sort of 
house of correction; she spied one that she knew
and called out to her, "Martha, are you back
again," and the girl replied, "Yes," in a tone of
perfect self-possession. "What made you do it,"
said the woman. "O I couldn't help it," was the
answer. "How much have you got this time?"

[Column 2]
"Three months," replied the girl, as if it was only
a commonplace affair, and not worth talking about.
On inquiry afterwards concerning the matter, we
were told she had been drunk and got into a row
and been arrested and sent up, as they called it. She
was rather a good looking girl, perhaps twenty or
a little more. Even this was quite a shock, but
when you see them in hundreds it is simply dread-
ful. There were fifty-four men prisoners on the
other side of the boat.
	On arriving at the Island, the first place in our
way, after landing, was Charity Hospital, and we
went through that entire building, noting every-
thing carefully. The men and women had separ-
ate departments for each class of cases, from 
thirty to forty and fifty in a ward, and everything
seemed arranged with the utmost care and con-
sideration. We talked a little with the nurses,
and afterwards with the superintendent. Even
in this one place, we saw suffering enough to
make one heartsick. Next we went to the Peni-
tentiary, and, as it was then the dinner hour, we
had a good opportunity of seeing all the inmates,
except those in the cells. Six hundred men were
eating in one room and the remainder in another,
and nearly as many women in their part of the
building; only think of it! We asked what pro-
portion were women, as the number seemed to be
quite large in looking at them, and the warden
showed us the daily record kept for reference,
which showed 1,763 inmates, and of this number
there were 995 men, 767 women, and one child
born in the place. The average number, we were
told, had been 1,200, but it is increasing. The
warden seemed to take our meaning wrong, and
he said, "You think the women are few compared
to the men?" We replied on the contrary we thought
it a large proportion. He said, "Now let me tell
you something else in connection with this mat-
ter. A large proportion of these women are in
for longer terms than the men." We inquired
why, and he replied that they were there for
abortions, infanticides and the murder of children,
and inwardly we thought, where are the men
who have brought these poor outcast women to
such a desperate strait. It is certainly a matter
for serious thought; indeed, one may well exclaim
with the poet,

	"My soul is sick with wrong and outrage
	With which the world is filled."

	Later in the afternoon we saw dozens of these
male convicts fastened to the great heavy carts
hauling rock and dirt, etc., and long lines of them,
six abreast, going from the wharf towards the
house. They have shops for all sorts of labor,
and men over them. The warden explained that
the prison was conducted on the silent principle,
and that no communication between the prisoners
was allowed, except in teaching and instructing
them about their employment. Time will not
permit to tell all, or half, even, in that one
place.
	Leaving the Penitentiary, the next place we
we went through was the Alms House for women.
There were between seven and eight hundred in-
inmates, so the matron said, and it really seemed as
if there was no end to them. The way they
gathered around and chattered was unlike and
more grotesque than anything we had ever seen,
or ever expect to see again. They all talked at
once; some were Irish, some French, some Ger-
man, some Danes or Swedes, and some Americans,
but the larger number, by far, were Irish. They
were nearly all old, but a few were young, and we
learned in talking to them that they were disabled
in various ways from doing hard work, and had
been in the Hospital, but discharged because they
were not sick enough to be there, so sent to the
Alms House, as they had no homes to go to.
What an immense amount of means must be ex-
pended upon this one island every year. We
went through a part of the Alms House for males,
and saw groups of them sitting in the sunshine,

[Column 3]
and some walking up and down, but they were not
so talkative as the women; perhaps because they
were pretty nearly all smoking. The one item of
tobacco must be a consideration, for some of the
women smoked, too. There were not quite so
many men in the Alms House as there were
women, we were told.
	From there we went to the Hospital of Incur-
ables, and clear through, all of which we will
leave untold, for tongue or pen can never tell the
agony and suffering, the woe and horrors of the
place, though everything is done in the nicest
manner possible, and the greatest care taken of
the poor afflicted creatures. The Convalescent
Hospital is not so distressing, and one feels a
little more cheerful. The Workhouse we visited
last, and there were between eleven and twelve
hundred in it. One of the superintendents showed
us through, and took special pains to give us cor-
rect information concerning the management. He
seemed to take special pride in the kitchen and
cooking part of the establishment, and told us they
had a head cook who was hired and paid, and
forty assistants, who were inmates of the house.
There was one large room full of shelves filled
with bread, and he seemed quite proud of the fact
that they baked ninety barrels of flour every day.
Here again the men and women had separate de-
partments, as is the custom everywhere, and after
the superintendent had shown us the men's side
of the house, he called the matron, who took us
through the women's side.
	By this time we were too much exhausted, body
and spirit, to go to see anything so pitiful as the
Blind Asylum, but ventured to look in at the In-
sane Asylum for women. And only think of it,
over 1,700 women are gathered on that Island, all
more or less insane. It is too dreadful to contem-
plate, but when brought face to face with the fact,
one cannot ignore the reality, however repugnant
it may be to dwell upon. These terrible condi-
tions of human life are greatly to be deplored, and
where is the remedy? How can the causes be
hindered? The crowding together of such great
numbers in large cities is one direct cause it would
seem, and it really is an almost herculean labor
to look after affairs upon such a tremendous scale.
As we neared the shore to take the steamer for
New York, the men were bringing more patients
for the Hospitals, and they called out for three
stretchers. On these those unable to be carried
in any other way were placed and carried to the
Charity Hospital. Weary and sick at heart with
the distressing sights we had seen, and the
terrible things we had heard, we were glad to go
on board the steamer and turn our gaze from that
Island of horrors.


THE LADIES’ MASS MEETING.

"MORMON" WOMEN MEET, SPEAK AND RE-
				SOLVE.

				(Concluded.)	
	Following is the address delivered by

			MRS. HANNAH T. KING.

	We have met to express our most indignant
feelings at the uncourteous, indelicate, not to
say insulting, treatment our sisters have ex-
perienced of late in the courts of our Territory
before the judges sitting in the chair of jus-
tice! Questions have been boldly asked of
them that even their closest friends would not
have presumed to ask them, and feelings of the
tenderest nature have been ruthlessly tram-
pled upon! And when some have determined
not to answer such questions they have been
sent to prison for “contempt of court!”' Most
apt is that word, no other could so properly
express the feelings such conduct must engen-


[Column 1]﻿
der; honorable wives, united by the holiest
covenants that hearts can make and words ex-
press, must submit and bear silently whatever
insulting questions judges please to propound
to them, simply because they are members of
the Church of Jesus Christ, founded by Him,
and they obey its principles, every one of
which is holy, pure and true. It is for this
we have assembled here to-day, to raise our
voices before high heaven and to the world,
and to protest against the dignity of our
womanhood being outraged in this uncalled-
for manner. I cannot refrain from asking here:
Are we in America, that glorious world-re-
nowned country, proudly denominated "The
land of the free and the home of the brave,"
that formerly raised its voice to the world, and
declared it should be the home for the destitute
and down-trodden of every nation under hea-
ven, and that every form of religion should be
allowed and protected under the broad and
fostering folds of its glorious flag and its hea-
ven inspired Constitution? Where shall this
oppressed people turn for redress? Who shall
lift the heavy hand of oppression from off their
shoulders? Scripture says: "Cursed is he who
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh;" but
should the Lord see fit to raise up such an arm
it will be filled by His Spirit, and the power
of the Holy One will alone be wielded by it.
Oh, my sisters, let us live closer to Him than
we have hitherto done! Our marriage vows
are most sacred. Let us live and rejoice in
the knowledge which His everlasting Gospel
has bestowed upon us, and while our wounded
hearts are smarting beneath the cruelty of our
enemies, let us echo the words of our blessed
Savior under more exquisite suffering, as an
excuse for them: "They know not what they
do!"
	Miss Nellie Colebrook then read the poem
of Mrs. Woodmansee, which is published on
the first page of this number. At its conclu-
sion the band played "Hail Columbia."

	Mrs Cornelia Clayton read an address by

		MATTIE H. TINGEY.

MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	We deeply regret that within the confines of
the republic of the United States circumstances
have occurred which warrant and necessitate the
women of a community assembling them-
selves together to protest against injury and
insult, and that, too, by Federal officials. It
is an acknowledged fact that the more civi-
lized and highly educated a nation becomes,
the more are women protected, elevated and
honored. Can it be that our great Republic
has retrograded to a semi-barbarous state,
that men are upheld and retained in office,who
willfully and maliciously seek to drag honora-
ble, pure-minded women into their presence,
for the purpose of insulting them with ques-
tions that cause the blush of shame to mantle
the cheek of every true lover of virtue and
morality? It can not be possible.
	Shall we then, mothers, wives and daugh-
ters of citizens of this great Republic, sit
quietly down, like slaves, and see our rights
taken from us, our characters maligned and
insults heaped upon us, all because of religion,
the free exercise of which is guaranteed to us
by the time-honored Constitution of our coun-
try? Methinks I hear from every nook and 
corner of this spacious building, the ringing
answer, No! a thousand times no! So long as
the God of heaven gives us breath and power
of speech we will maintain our rights as citi-
zens of the United States, and protest against
women being subjected to such indignities as
have been offered the women of our community
by Federal officials, who should be our pro-
tectors against everything of such a nature.
	A stirring written address by

[Column 2]
		MRS. L. F. MONCH,
of Ogden was next read. We were unable to
obtain it for publication in full.
	The next address was by
				DR. R. B. PRATT.

MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	It is our best policy, as it is our duty, and in
accordance with our religion and the counsels
of our leaders, to meet all afflictions with pa-
tience, and to "suffer wrong rather than do 
wrong." "Defense should be our motto," and 
it is the motive power of this meeting to-day.
The mountain of evil that has been and is in 
prospect of being heaped upon our people,
the real brunt and heft of which falls on the
devoted heads of women and innocent chil-
dren, has put it into the hearts of the women
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints to protest against such unjust and un-
necessary proceedings, and if possible to make
a plain statement of our principles and opin-
ions; for be it known to all the world we most
assuredly possess both, and are neither slow
nor weak in making them known and felt as
far as we can, in a righteons way. We wish
to deal with stern facts to-day, and we there-
fore ask if the majority of monogamous fami-
lies of the United States, or even the world
are very profusely adorned with the flowers of
virtue and morality. Can a true and verita-
ble marriage which receives the divine sanc-
tion be immoral or the issue illegitimate?
Certainly at this point the bone of contention 
is made bare and the question is asked "is
it of divine origin?" And who but the indi-
vidual can decide this for himself? A true
marriage cannot be productive of evil, for it
is the perfect union of heart and soul, sancti-
fied by mutual consent and sealed by God's
holy ordinance. The "Mormon" marriage
covenant is as binding on the man as the
woman, for any departure from the marriage
law is a deadly sin punished by excommunica-
tion which we regard as spiritual death. The
Latter-day Saints regard plural marriage as
an extension of all the privileges and good re-
sults arising from single marriage. Has not
every woman the undeniable right to be an
honorable wife and mother—of fulfilling the
end of her creation, and do not the circum-
stances of life and statistics prove this to be
impossible under the monogamic system? If
the same ceremony seals each wife to her hus-
band, may not each family be a realization of
the beautiful picture of one father and one
mother, each the equal of the other in that
family, happy in the consciousness of mutual
and eternal affection, to rear about the hearth-
stone an intelligent and God-fearing family?
Our faith and confidence in the chastity and 
pure motives of our husbands, fathers,mothers
and sons is such that we challenge the pro-
duction of a better system of marriage and the
records of more moral or purer lives. Hand
in hand with celestial marriage is the eleva-
tion of woman. In church she votes equally
with men, and politically she has the suffrage
raising her from the old common law, mono-
gamic serfdom to political equality with men.
Rights of property are given her so that she, 
as a married woman, can hold property in her
own individual right. 
	Chaste and honorable women have been
taken alone into a room with fifteen men and
been baited and badgered by prosecuting offi-
cers and forced, on pain of imprisonment, to
answer the most insulting and indecent ques-
tions concerning their personal condition, their
expected maternity, and their private relations
with their husbands. Children of tender
years have been snatched from the pure home
circle and plied with questions concerning
their father's marital relations quite beyond
their years, until they tremble with open-eyed
wonder. Some noble women, rather than re-

[Column 3]
ply to these improper questions, have submitted
to imprisonment under the most trying circum-
stances. One became a mother within a few
days after leaving the penitentiary:  another
was imprisoned with a babe in her arms; an-
other with a babe at the breast, passing months
under the same roof with the most degraded
felons.
	We do not believe that the administration
of the laws as carried on in Utah would if
understood, be approved or sustained. We
will not yet believe that justice and equity for
want of a resting place have forsaken this
glorious land. Therefore, we, the women of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, once more make a plain confession of
our faith and principles—of convictions formed
by the unfettered conversion of conscience, 
that we do firmly believe in the divine
origin and the eternal benefits of celestial mar-
riage—that this system conduces to the eleva-
tion and independence of women—that the
men of this faith who are guided by the
spirit of the Gospel have the highest regard
for virtue and morality—are the most to be
trusted and the most loyal citizens of any 
men who live upon the earth. Therefore, in 
the name of justice, equity and conscience we
protest against special legislation which in-
hibits the conduct of our lives according to 
our best judgment for this life and most es-
pecially for the future. We appeal to the
honest-hearted of this nation, from President
Cleveland to the least one who will raise a 
voice against oppression, to use their influence
as the constituencies of Congressmen and de-
mand a stay in the proceedings against this 
people.
	Miss Nellie Colebrook then read a poetical
address by
		MRS. REBA PRATT,
which lack of space prevents us from pub-
lishing at this time. It will no doubt appear in a
subsequent number.
	After the choir sang a piece composed by
Bishop O. F. Whitney,
			DR. E. R. SHIPP
spoke as follows:

SISTERS AND FRIENDS:
	We consider that in our case patience and 
endurance have ceased to be a virtue, and we
cannot longer restrain our feelings of wounded
dignity and subdued indignation, when all that
is held dear by us is trampled upon and our
most sacred rights and privileges withheld
from us. Our fathers, husbands, brothers and 
sons, and, indeed, many of our honored and
respected ladies are exiled from their homes
and forced to flee from the minions of the
law. Those whom we love and honor and who re-
spect and honor us are imprisoned, obliged to 
share the cells of vile and wicked men, and
even to wear the badges of shame and infamy.
And for what? We have dared to worship
God according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences. This is our grievous offense. A cer-
tain tenet of our religious faith our opponents
cannot countenance, because so contrary to
their own sinful practices. The evil results of
these practices we have personally observed,
particularly in the hospitals of the world, 
where fallen women seek the shelter they can-
not obtain from those who should have pro-
tected them instead of throwing them and their
offspring upon the mercies of a cold, unfeeling
world. By consulting the national statistics
we find New York with 30,000 women living
lives of prostitution, Chicago 20,000, Boston
and Cincinnati each 10,000 and other cities
with a like ratio according to the number of
inhabitants. Unfortunately, a record of the
opposite sex is not kept. We are accused of
being down-trodden and oppressed. We deny


[Column 1]
the charge! for we know there cannot be found
a class of women upon the earth, who occupy
a more elevated position in the hearts of their
husbands, or whose most delicate and refined
feelings are so respected as here in Utah.  Let
our work speak for us.  We are a temperate,
God-fearing, law-abiding people.  We consider
virtue and chastity the crowning ornament of
woman’s character.  Our ladies are educated
and refined, and their lives are constantly
characterized by acts of nobility, fortitude and
usefulness.
	“To err is human to forgive divine.”  We
forgive and pity our enemies, realizing that
God and one man are a great majority; and
that the Latter-day Saints will ultimately pre-
vail and triumph over the opposition of the
whole world.
	The next address was by
			LAURA HYDE MINER.

	The head of the nation has said, the welfare
of a country was centered in the homes of the
land, where the husband and the pure monoga-
mous wife ruled their children in love.  Can
he lay claim to such a home, a wife and child-
ren, heirs to a father’s fame and a mother’s
virtue?  Are the priests and sisterhoods of the
Roman Catholic chuch, bound to celibacy by
the strictest vows, doing their duty to their
country according to that standpoint?  Yet
who would dream of Congress legislating away
the bachelor’s freedom or forcing priest or nun
to sacreligious marriage.
	Another illegal point in our treatment is, all
women are disfranchised who are living with
a polygamist; the legal wife as well as the
others, for our law-makers hold that if she
lives with him to whom she was married for
better or for worse, she is equally guilty.  Yet
a learned judge has lately dragged a legal wife
into court to testify in a case again[-]t her hus-
band, holding that the wrong was against her,
so she was a competent witness and must testi-
fy, or be adjudged guilty of contempt.
	The law now pending in Congress proposes
to disorganize our institutions and apply the
surplus means to other purposes than the peo-
ple intended.  Are the religious bodies of
these United States prepared for such a prece-
dent?  We are not only pleading, protesting
and suffering for our own liberty, but for the
future freedom of every citizen of this country.
What laws are made for the benefit of the
whole nation, we are willing to abide by or
bear the penalty of their infringement without
complaint, for we know that God is able and
willing to reward His servants.  Now we wish
to bear our testimony to those that are array-
ing wives and children against their husbands
and fathers that, “With what measure ye mete
it shall be measured to you again.”
			DR. E. S. BARNEY
was the next speaker. She said:
	It is said we live in a free country, for which
our fathers fought and bled, where is enjoyed
free speech, a free press, and a right to worship
God according to the dictates of our own con-
science.  Not so; rumor has falsely spoken.
Utah is the exception.  Her history has not
been read; it has lain a closed book to the mass
of the world, and to the fifty-five millions of
people of the United States.  Not a tithe of
that number has ever heard of the peaceable,
industrious, moral and God-fearing people that
live in the little Territory of Utah, called Lat-
ter-day Saints.  Yet some few politicians,
eagar for pelf, stigmatize us as a people, and
say we are a “blot” on the body politic, and
that fifty-five million people are opposed to us.
That is a fallacy.  There are some who are
like the story of a Quaker with the dog.  He
says, “I would not hurt thee, but I’ll give thee
a bad name.”  So he turned him loose, and
cried Mad dog! Mad dog! Should a nation

[Column 2]
fold her arms and sleep, or a mother unheed
the cries of her child, that appeals to her in
distress?  Have we not appealed and protested
against oppression to the higher courts of the
land, and asked them to investigate our cause
and see if we were obedient children?  What
was the response?  The waste basket received
the protest unanswered.
	Men are imprisoned because they will not
disown their wives, and if they dare say they
believe in God,and intend to carry out His law,
they must be sent to the penitentiary.  Dare I
say I believe?  Yes, I will say more.  I know
that God has spoken from the heavens, and
that He has called and chosen His sons and
daughters to carry out His law.  Suppose it
be at the sacrifice of liberty, or even life;
after the sacrifice comes the reward, and we
can afford to wait the recompense of the Al-
mighty.  There is no righteous jurisprudence
for a Latter-day Saint in our courts here in
Utah.  In the song of the “Pauper’s Last Ride,”
the chorus is:

		“Drive fast his bones, over the stones,
		For he is a pauper whom nobody owns.”

	But the chorus of the last verse is:

		"Drive gently his bones, over the stones,
		For he is a pauper whom his Father yet owns."

	Courts and jurors need not think for one
moment, that they will not be held accountable
to God for this last ride that some of the
Saints have taken through the sickness and
distress brought upon them by this oppression.
	We do and have asked for nothing but our
rights under the government.  We ask for
just laws to be made.  We ask to peaceably
occupy our homes that we ourselves have made,
in which we intend to stay.  We ask for the
same right under government that our sister
States and Territories enjoy.
	While we honor the name of Washington,
Jefferson, Madison, Monroe and the framers of
the grand old Constitution, we cannot fail to
see the undermining power that is sapping the
vitals, the life and the essence  of our govern-
ment and honeycombing the entire fabric, and
will leave it in the near future a tottering
structure, which will disgrace the land and the
God that gave it birth.
	Why should a nation cry mad dog! mad
dog! when her capital cities are filled with
such infamy and crime?  Instead, she had
better borrow some of the examples of purity
and virtue of her polygamous sisters.  We
are learning the lessons that will give us
long life, peace and happiness, that kings and
queens might be proud to possess; and our
examples are towering heavenward, from which
source we look for the response that God has
promised—the bursting of our fetters, the
conquering of our foes, and a final millennial
reign.

			MRS. JENNIE TANNER

of Provo, was called and spoke as follows: 

SISTERS AND FRIENDS:

	We have met here to-day en masse to ear-
nestly protest against the indignities that have
recently been heaped upon members of our
sex by the courts and Federal officials, and
would-be political autocrats of this Territory.
Our mothers and sisters are dragged into court
and asked the most indecent questions; in
many cases separated from their families.
Homes are broken up and inmates scattered.
Our fathers and brothers are cast into prison
or exiled.  And for what? For obeying God-
given principles: laws revealed from heaven.
We find by reading the sacred book called the
Bible that God commanded Adam and Eve to
multiply and replenish the earth; this com-
mandment evidently was intended as much
for Eve as Adam. Hence, holy women of old,

[Column 3]
to whom God administered by sending angels
to them or appearing Himself, were anxious 
for posterity, and in some instances, as we find
recorded in sacred writ, where women that had
husbands failed to have children through some
irregularity of nature, gave] their handmaids
to their husbands to be their wives—for in-
stance, Sarah gave her handmaid Hagar to
Abraham to be his wife. After this the Lord
blessed Sarah in her old age and gave her a
son, from whom was descended Jesus of Nazar-
eth, the veritable Son of God.  Jacob was
first married to his cousin Leah, then Rachel,
and after this their handmaids, who were given
to Jacob by their mistresses in order to en-
large their families, and through the sacrifice
made by Rachel she herself became fruitful
and bore children to her husband, and the
children of these four wives were the twelve 
Patriarchs whose names are to be written on
the gates of the Holy Jerusalem which is to
descend out of heaven.  The great Prophet
Samuel was the son of Elkanah, who had two
wives, Hannah and Penninah.  Hannah had
no children, on account of which she was very
sorrowful.  She repaired to the temple on a
certain day and sought her God in prayer.
There she met with Eli, the priest; after learn-
ing that she had been offering up a petition,
he promised her that it should be granted.
God not only sanctioned polygamy, but great-
ly blessed in every way men and women who
entered into these principles.  The Apostle
Paul mentions men and women of great faith
that were in polygamy, and that they obtained
a good report on account of their faith.  I am
free to state that the principle of celestial mar-
riage is an integral part of the faith of the
Latter-day Saints, because I have an abiding
knowledge within myself of its truthfulness.
In the light of these facts, then, and in view
of the truth that in this Territory there is a
ruthless disregard for the local rights of the
people (rights inestimable to themselves and
formidable to tyrants only), I, for one, as a
consistent daughter of Utah, anxious to pro-
tect the rights and privileges of my sex, deem
it my duty to join with you in repudiating the
accusations against us, and the injustice and
extreme measures of the courts and Federal
officers of this Territory.

	The following address by

			MRS. JULIA CRUSE HOWE.

was read by Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton:		

MRS. PRESIDENT AND FRIENDS:

	In contemplating the position we as a peo-
ple occupy at the present time, politically, so-
cially, morally and religiously, attracting as
we do the attention not only of this great na-
tion, but the nations of the earth; misrepre-
sented, maligned and despised as we are, I feel
that as a woman and a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I am
proud, and would not exchange my position
with any queen or empress.  True, we are
passing through persecution.  Our noble hus-
bands and sons are imprisoned, as Christ said
they would be.  Their affectionate wives and
children are left without their protection, sub-
jected to insult and derision by their inquisitors,
and many left without means of sustenance—
not however to the cold charities of the world
—for as a people, if one suffers, all suffer; and
thanks to our Heavenly Father, who causes
His sun to shine on the evil as well as on the
good, there is enough for all, and it will prove
us as a people, whether or not we love our
neighbor as ourselves.  The young who might 
have been deceived into believing the object of
our religious persecutors to be the correcting of
our morals are thoroughly convinced to the
contrary through their lying and misrepresenta-
tions.  How we honor and admire our noble
sires and husbands for their integrity.  They


gave us the right of franchise that our now
would-be reformers would deprive us of.  We
are called the down-trodden women of Utah;
but we know that the liberty and privileges we
enjoy will compare favorably with those of any
other people on the face of the earth.
	I am sorry for the rulers of this nation, that
they should allow themselves to be blinded by
prejudice and misrepresentations of a few ad-
venturers, who are hungering and lusting after
the pleasant homes and property of the law-
abiding, God-fearing people of this community.
But they are fulfilling prophecies.  I am sorry
for this nation because they are fighting against
high heaven, and I pray that their eyes may
be opened to this fact before it is too late.
	On motion it was declared the sense of the
meeting that Congress be memorialized,and the
following committee were appointed:
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Dr.
R. B. Pratt, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Salt Lake City;
Mrs. Johns, Provo;  Mrs. Pitchforth, Nephi;
Mrs. H. C. Brown, Ogden;  Miss Ida I. Cook,
Logan;  Miss Ida Coombs, Payson.
	After singing by the choir, Mrs. Zina D.
Young spoke a few words of exhortation to the
ladies, and offered the benediction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MORMONS AGAIN.

	Senator Edmunds' bill, confiscating the
church property of the Mormons, has not had
a tendency to bring out the best and most
Christ-like principles of that people.  It was
an act unworthy of the great nation; there is
no question that some of the Mormons are as
honest and conscientious in their belief in
polygamy as Senator Edmunds is in his religi-
ous belief.  It is well known by all that there
is a large class of Mormons who are earnest
in, and upholders of, the Mormons religion,
with that single exception of the doctrine of
polygamy; yet this latter class must suffer with
their more extreme brothers.  Putting this all
aside, Edmunds’ bill cannot be considered the
proper way to deal with this question.  If it is
a crime, it is at the same time a religion, and
the extremists who condemn it the most would
condemn Shakerism, and that is a religion
also. We have scanned very closely the
columns of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a paper
published in Salt Lake City, and we find it
teeming with a pure,ennobling,fervent,and for-
giving spirit that is not excelled, if equaled, by
any religious paper among our exchanges, and
that is what called forth this article, for we
expected to see a less Christian spirit exhibit
itself under this new attitude of our govern-
ment.—Peabody Reporter.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Miss Alice Longfellow held a large card re-
ception on Saturday, the first entertainment
that has been given in the classic old Craigie
house since the death of the poet. 

	John B. Gough is said to have had what is
called a strong presentiment that he would not
survive the present year.  He frequently told
his friends that he would never see seventy, 
which he would have been in August, 1888.  

	At the regular meeting of the Shakespeare
Society in Columbia College last night the
copy of the second folio of Shakespeare, dis-
covered in Utah some months ago, bears upon
the fly leaf autograph signatures, which are
said to be those of Shakespeare and John
Ward, the actor. 

	A concession has been granted by the Swiss
Government to a firm of electrical engineers
at Geneva for making a railway up Mont Sal-
ene, near that place.  The line will be made
with a central track very similar to that of the


Rigi line, the toothed pinion which works in-
to it being driven by machinery.
	The first settlers of Suffolk county brought
with them the Bible, and in some of these
were bound selections from Psalms set to grand
chorals. J. Lyon Gardiner, the present
owner of Gardiner's Island, has the Bible
which belonged to his ancestor, Lyon Gardiner,
who built the first fort at Saybrook, Conn.
This book was printed in London in 1599. It
contains the book of Psalms, with musical
notes. A like volume is in the family of the
late Hon. Silas Horton, Southold. It belonged
to the first Barnabas Booth, who was in
Southold in 1640. The Huguenots brought
the French Testaments with them. The Testa-
ments contained one hundred and fifty Psalms
set to chorals with a note to every syllable. A 
copy of this work is owned by J. H. Bornean,
of Southold.
	The Queen of Portugal is reputed the best
dressed lady in Europe. Her original style of
beauty associated with her exquisite taste and
her enjoyment of abundant means to gratify
her well-skilled choice of colors, fit, and ma-
terial, give her supremacy in the realm of
dress and adornment. But the lineage of the
distinguished lady who shares the honors of 
royalty with King Luis I. is of the highest,
and gives her family relations with some of
the proudest reigning houses of Europe. Queen
Pia is the youngest daughter of the late King
Vittorio Emanuele, of Italy, and sister, of
course, of King Umberto I. She was born
Oct. 16, 1857, and was married Oct. 6, 1862,
before she was 15 years old, to King Luis, who
had succeeded his brother, Pedro V., less than
a year before that time. Her husband is nine
years older than she. The royal couple have
two children, both boys. One of them, Prince
Carlos, Duke of Braganza, was born Sept. 28,
1863, and the other, Prince Affonso, Duke of
Oporto, on July 31, 1865.


﻿OBITUARY.
	DIED, at Riversdale, Oneida Co., Idaho, Feb. 20 1886, 
of dropsy, Emma C. Vail, daughter of Peter and Mary
Ann Preece, aged 22 years and 14 days. She was born in 
Franklin, Oneida Co., Idaho, 6 of Feb. 1864, and leaves
one little girl, one month and 24 days old. She was a 
member of the Relief Society and was assistant secretary 
in the same. She died in full faith of the gospel and in 
the hope of a glorious resurrection.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock o[-]
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 30[-], SALT LAKE CITY. 

For Sale at this Office.

Books by Eliza R. Snow.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in moroccco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco.	1.50	"

[Column 2]
	﻿“Domestic!”
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[Text sideways on left side of drawing of sewing machine]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Text on sideways on right side of drawing of sewing machine]
Will do Finer of Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years. 

	Young Brothers,
33 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building.
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,	
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[Drawing of hand pointing to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

AT 	TEASDEL'S	
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,

	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

