VOL. 14. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1886.				No. 21.


[Column 1]
			EMILY BLACKBURN.

Far in the dim old forest
	The settler's cabin stood;
The walls were built of great hewn logs,
	The rafters strong and good;
And boughs of pine o'erlaid with rush,
	The cold and rain withstood.

Before his open doorway
	The Humboldt River rolled.
Where sunrise laid its silver,
	And sunset threw its gold;
And on its rippling current, night
	Cast wealth of gems untold.

The varying sunlight wrought there
	Each passing hour in change,
'Mid leaf and flower and shadow
	Fresh pictures, rare and strange;
In endless beauty all around,
	Far as the eye could range.

And with the river's music
	The wild birds chimed their song,
They woke her with the morning light,
	And charmed her all day long;
Ah! who would dream could enter there
	A word or deed of wrong.

All day, through other sounds, she heard
	Back through the the forest ring
His busy axe, and, sweetest sound,
	The songs he loved to sing;
And by these tokens cheerful wrought,
	As hours their flight did wing.

Yet through the grand old forest
	Crossed here and there a trail,
At sight—her voice its song would hush,
	Her dainty cheek turn pale,
And in her loving heart, at this,
	The spring of strength would fail.

There came at last the dreaded sound,
	His ear a footstep caught—
His watchful eye and anxious heart
	Stern vigilance had taught—
And through the loophole, by the stars,
	Discerned the foe he sought.

His rifles good, he reached and placed
	Them by his side, and looked
Where she beside the cheerful hearth
	Half musing, smiled; he shook
And paled with love and fear for her,
	As her white hand he took.

"Emily, nerve thy heart to-night
	My own brave help to be;
Fast as you can, mould by the fire
	This lead in balls for me,
And make no cry of fear, my girl,
	For morn will see us free."

She knelt before the glowing flames,
	And as they leaped and roared,
With eager haste and steady hand
	The molton lead she poured,
And watched the bullets fill her bowl
	As misers count their hoard.

Till all were done, then rising, took
	His empty rifle, too;
He heard the sound and turned to her—
"Dear wife, what would you do?"
"Don't leave your loophole, Tom, and I
	Will load the guns for you."

"God bless you, Emily, be sure
	You load the rifles right;"
"God bless you, Tom, don't think of me—
Be sure that you aim right."
And never once again they spoke
	Through all that equal night.

[Column 2]
He watched beneath the starlight cold,
	And saw as each one came—
He threw toward the cabin wall
	A pine knot all aflame,
But by its light the answ'ring ball
	Sped with unerring aim.

She knew not of the cruel brands,
	But heard what chilled each vein—
Yet spoke no word, for love of him,
	As sparing his heart's pain—
His father calling through the wood—
	Calling for help, in vain.

The morning came; the cabin stood
	Unharmed—the foe had fled;
Their fallen comrades strewed the ground,
	His father, too, lay dead,
And Tom—his curling nut brown locks
	Were white upon his head.

That night of terror and of woe
	Wrought surely day by day,
Till reason yielded 'neath its stress
	And memory died away; 
Nor even her sweet face or voice
	Evoked an answering ray.

And Emily, for her babes' sakes,
	Surmounted every woe,
True heroine, where life and death
	Commingled in their flow:
I love her still, as when I met,
	And learned her story years ago.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

South Bountiful, March 8th, 1886.


[Column 1]
"LOOK HERE, UPON THIS PICTURE, 
AND ON THIS."

	The contrast implied by these words of the
immortal bard never found fitter application 
than in the treatment the Latter-day Saints
receive from their traducers and those who 
think it their mission to oppress them, and the
opposite course pursued towards the latter by
the victims of their diabolical hatred. This is 
especially manifest right here, in what is known 
as "the stronghold of Mormonism," where
many of the most unscrupulous enemies of 
this people live, move and have their being, 
unmolested by a single act of aggression or re-
taliation. 
	We may read in the daily prints of out-
rages upon "Mormon" missionaries and their
converts, of mobbings, whippings and drivings, 
and even the assassination of humble, virtuous, 
God-fearing men, who leave their homes, wives
and children, and every social comfort, to go 
forth as wanderers for Christ's sake, to prove
their faith and integrity to His cause and scat-
ter the jewels of His Word among those who
are ignorant of its blessed import. Before our
very eyes a licentious and ribald press heaps
daily abuse and calumny upon men every-
where known to be highminded and honorable
—by none better than those who hate them
worst and abuse them most. We see helpless
women and children lied about most viciously
and branded with infamy undeserved; the
sacred memory of the dead profaned, and all 
that the living cherish and revere, held up as
targets for the blasphemy and ridicule of the
ungodly. And all this because the ones so 
persecuted are “Mormons” and hold to a differ-
ent belief regarding the life here and hereafter, 
to those entertained by their good, kind, Chris-
tian would-be reformers. 
	Moreover, efforts are continually being made,

[Column 2]
in  many instances with success, to lead our 
children away, under pretense of giving them
a free education, from the holy faith which
their fathers and mothers, rather than relin-
quish, would die for. Some of our youth are 
seduced from wisdom's ways and virtue's paths
by the wily arts of the libertine, the gambler, 
and those who earn a livlihood by inheriting
the curse pronounced upon him who "putteth
the cup to his neighbor's lips;" by those of 
smooth face and oily tongue, who clasp hands
with these so-called agents of reform, and hav-
ing "stolen the livery of heaven to serve the
devil in," prostitute the sacred calling they 
thus usurp to subserve their selfish ends and
desires. Our brethren and sisters are hunted 
down as by sleuth-hounds; the sanctity of the
fireside and the sick chamber is invaded, 
fathers and husbands are dragged from the
bosom of their families dependent upon them 
for support, harassed by vexatious suits, 
trumped-up charges and the unwarranted as-
sumptions of small-souled minions of the law; 
held in custody or forced to give exorbitant
bail; insulted, brow-beaten and abused in court, 
and then thrust into prison and punished be-
fore fairly or finally convicted of the offences
charged against them. Mothers, sisters and
wives are summoned before secret tribunals, 
inquisitorial commissioners and grand juries, 
as witnesses against their natural and legal
protectors; catechised indecently by individuals
clothed with an evanescent authority calling
themselves "good men and true,', and wearing
indeed the shape of men, but proving by their
conduct in some instances that from their unre-
generate breasts the last spark of manhood, 
if it ever existed there, has departed. 
	Such things this people have endured and
are enduring still, and yet are patient and fore-
bearing, and the authors and perpetrators of 
these and kindred acts of oppression are as
free as the air they breathe, so far as hindrance
or retaliation is concerned, and entirely so ex-
cept as they are the veriest slaves of their own 
bad passions and the spirit of wrong-doing
which has fastened its shackles upon them.
	Who is it, having eyes to see, ears to hear, 
and a heart to understand, but knows that if a
"Mormon" or any number of his co-religionists 
were to intrude into any other community on 
earth and attempt the high-handed, unwarrant-
able procedure that is witnessed here in Utah
from day to day, and of which they are the
patient victims, it would raise such a clamor
and indignant uproar as the thunders of hea-
ven could scarcely silence? Simply change
the location and the contrast between the
pictures is sublime. 
	Let a "Mormon" school teacher go into a
"Christian" city and endeavor by gilded baits
of free education or other inducements to woo
the children of the Gentiles from the religion
of their parents, adding to such efforts the
practice so common among the institutors and
promoters of sectarian schools in Utah, of
making periodical visits to his fellow-believers
at a distance, and after slandering the people
in whose midst he is laboring, returns laden
with a rich harvest of dollars reaped from the
field of falsehood he has sown, to "continue
the good work" of reclaiming the Gentile
youth by inveigling them into what their
fathers and mothers consider by and forbidden
paths. Let him do this, then witness the
mild (?) and peacable (?) results that would
follow.


Again, what if a "Mormon" press should
establish itself in the very heart of St. Louis,
Chicago, or any other city of our land and
persistently and wilfully falsify, blackguard
and abuse the most reputable and respected
citizens, without the slightest shadow of ex-
cuse, except the one we so often hear in these
parts, that its object was to Mormonize
"(Americanize") and turn them from the ways
their consciences tell them to walk in, to the
path of a so-called social and political salva-
tion. Suppose that through these continued,
heaped up, and pressed down, assaults on priv-
ate character, the name of a resident of St.
Louis or Chicago should become so feared and
hated that right here in our own city of Salt
Lake, peaceable gentile merchants or "Chris-
tian" missionaries should be shot down by
"Mormon" mobs, fired to the commisson of the
bloody deeds by the outrageous calumnies set
afloat and carried to Utah by said "Mormon"
newspaper, whose existence we are for the
sake of argument supposing.
	Suppose, still, that the machinery of the
courts and the administration of the law were
exclusively in the "Mormon" hands, and
they, though bigotry and hatred of everything
Gentile, should stretch and strain the author-
ity they held to the same extent that is now
being done in the vexatious prosecutions of
which they themselves are made the victims,
for the purpose of convicting, fining and im-
prisoning&nbsp;Gentiles, breaking up their families
and bringing them into a bondage more to be
dreaded than death, which to freemen would
seem sweet by comparison. Would any peo-
ple less patient and longsuffering than the Lat-
ter-day Saints be contented with anything
short of a revolution? And would they not
have cause? Surely as just and sufficient as
that which kindled the fires of Bunker Hill
and Yorktown, and caused earth to reverber-
ate with the echoes of the sublime declaration
that all men are created equal and endowed
by their Creator with the inalienable rights of
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
	But the Latter-day Saints are more patient
than their patriotic sires of a century ago.
They know, like the immortal Patrick Henry,
that "there is a just God in heaven, who
watches over the destinies of men and nations,"
and they have confided their cause to Him who
has sworn to fight their battles for them.
	This is why they can bear and forbear to
the uttermost, patiently suffering the slights
and insults of those who ride rampant over
law, order and every legal restriction to op-
press them; who would rule that they
might ruin and resolve order back into chaos
that they might revel in the anarchy, confu-
sion and degradation that would follow. Look
at some of those who walk our streets, slaves
of vice and paid tools of tyranny, boasting of
what they have already done and intend fur-
ther to do against the peace and good order
of an innocent, God-fearing and industrious
people who permit them  unmolested and un-
questioned, to fulminate their vile threats and
execute their viler acts within their very bor-
ders. Look at them, and ask yourselves if
the pictures here endeavored to be painted do
not furnish as complete and striking a con-
trast as any that past or present times can boast.
					ORSON F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MOLEN.
	A Relief Society was organized in Molen
Ward, Emery Stake of Zion, Feb. 7th. Fol-
lowing are the names of the officers. Ann
Rasmussen Prest.; Mary L. Hansen and
Dicintha Stringham, Counselors; Esther A. 
Fieldsted, Secretary, Emily Cook, Treasurer.

[Column 2]

All were set apart by the presidency of the 
Stake.
		E. A. FIELDSTED, Secretary.

KOOSHAREM.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We thought a few lines from this out of the
way place might be of interest to your valua-
ble paper. Our Relief Society is in a pretty
fair condition and the sisters are all striving
to serve the Lord and are alive to their duties.
we are enjoying good health and feel well in
the Gospel of Christ. We know that our ene-
mies are persecuting us on the right and on
the left, but this will only make Latter-day
Saints more humble and live nearer to the
Lord. It is necessary that trials come in order
that we may be proved, for the Lord says He
wants a tried people. We know the Lord is
on our side, so we have nothing to fear; if we
do our part He will do His, and He will help
us.
		MARGRETTE ANDERSON, Prest.
		JOSEPHA O. WRIGHT, Sec. pro-tem.

CEDAR CITY.
	Our Quarterly Conference was held at Cedar
City, on the 7th of Feb., a good spirit and
feeling prevailing. The branches of the Stake
were reported as being in a favorable condi-
tion, the members alive to their duties, and 
anxious to assist in the support and building
up of the kingdom of God. Much good in-
struction was imparted by our President, Sister
E. Lunt, who was moved upon to a marked
degree to speak words of encouragement and
exhortation to the sisters. 
	A vacancy having occurred in the Presi-
dency, occasioned by the death of Sister H. A. 
Mitchell, Sister Sage T. Jones was appointed
Second Counselor. Appropriate resolutions of
respect to the memory of Sister Mitchell were
adopted by the Society, and ordered spread
upon our minutes. She was universally re-
spected, for she cultivated that true charity
which flows from a sense of duty and hope in
God. She was a woman possessed with rare
abilities of practical usefulness and persever-
ance in well doing.
	Ever praying for the interests of Zion, and
that success may attend you in your labors in
behalf of the women of Utah, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
		SARAH CHATTERLY, Sec.

TOOELE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Young Ladies' and Primary Associa-
tions was held in the Tooele meeting house,
March 13th and 14th, 1886, Mrs. M. A. Hunter
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
Prest. Hunter made a few opening remarks,
during which Sisters Presendia Kimball and
Helen Mar Whitney arrived from Salt Lake
City. Sister Kimball was the first speaker;
She gave a great deal of good counsel and ad-
vice, suitable to all the Saints, both old and
young.
	Sister Whitney spoke very interestingly,
with remarks to suit all, and encouraged all to
live up to their privileges, for we live in very
critical times. She believed that this crusade
would hasten the time when the Lord would
cut His work short in righteousness, and it is
for us to live humble before the Lord. She
spoke at some length in a very encouraging
manner to the sisters on celestial marriage, and
of the great blessings that are in store for all
who live for them. 
	Bishop Atkins was well pleased with the
good instructions the sisters had given, and
urged all to adhere to them.
	The afternoon session, commencing at 2 p.m.,
was for the Primary Conference, Sister Sarah

[Column 3]

Hale, Stake President of the Primary, carried
out the day's programme, consisting of songs,
recitations and dialogues, all of which were
well rendered by the children. The visiting
sisters gave good instructions to the children,
dwelling on honoring their parents and attend-
ing to their prayers.
	In the evening, at 7 o'clock, the young
ladies held their Conference. The Secretary
read the minutes, and also the reports, all of
which were accepted. Verbal reports were
given by the presidents of the Tooele and
Grantsville associations, which showed them in
good running order. Sister Whitney addressed
the audience, which was very large, including
both young ladies and young men, giving
good counsel to the young of both sexes on
many interesting subjects. Other speakers
were Bro. George Atkin, Jun. and Bro. O. O.
Houly. After singing, benediction was uttered
by Bro. Gillespie.
	On Sunday morning the sisters attended and
addressed the Sunday School. In the after-
noon the Relief Society Conference was con-
tinued. After the Sacrament was administered,
the brethren and sisters from Salt Lake City
all spoke of the perilous times that we live in,
and encouraged the Saints to live in such a
way that they can call down the blessings of
God upon them. Bro. C. Hunderson also 
made a few remarks, encouraging the brethren
and sisters to faithfulness, and invoked the
blessing of God upon all.
	Sisters Kimball and Whitney stopped all
the week and visited and cheered the sisters,
for they were full of blessings, and on Saturday
returned home to the city.
		ANN TATE,
	Cor. Sec. for Tooele Stake.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Only the true man can really be brave, only
the righteous man walk through the darkness
and face with serene soul the mystery of life.

	Bodily exercise, though absolutely necessary
to secure health and vigor, if persisted in be-
yond certain limits, will end in breaking down
the very power it has been building up.

	It is a mistaken idea that, if a little of any-
thing is good a great deal must be correspond-
ingly better. It may be so, but not unless its
due relations to other things are equally pre-
served. Few things are stronger than steam
when used and confined within working limits,
and but few weaker than the same steam
floating in thin vaporous clouds and filling
large areas of space. So it is not simply the
possession of large wealth, or great knowledge
or high station, or much authority, that will
make any man powerful and valuable, but the
way in which he uses what he has.

	True independence consists in the posses-
sion and improvement of resources within one’s
own self. There is a sense in which self-suffi-
ciency is a laudible trait of character. It is
far different from self-assertion, which may be
Ishmaelitish, turning the hand against every
man. And it is just as far removed from that
weak dependence upon others which leads one
to look for aid at all times, and for constant
society and companionship in occupation and
in amusement. Social intercourse and con-
versation are a part, and a very large part, of
all our lives. Both improvement and pleasure
depend upon our well-selected friendships.
Still he is a poor companion for others who can
do nothing for himself. He who has nothing in
him has nothing to impart to his friends. He
has no capital to go upon in the social ex-
change which promotes the intelligent life of
man.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY JEWELS.

Step to the door with me,
Notice, and there you see
	Mary, our only sweet child;
Not rarely beautiful,
But, oh! so dutiful,
	Gentle and loving and mild!

Ah! she is strong and well—
What a blest thing to tell!
	Sportive and active, you see;		
Bright as a summer's noon,
Not two years old till June,
	Yet people take her for three.

Oft, though so young, she proves
Wise in her little moves;
	Character shows of much force.
Generous and just and kind, 
Not wanting strength of mind,  
	Just like her papa, of course.

Speak of that father then,
Noblest and best of men,
	Gives, with true wisdom and sense,
Love that is strong and pure,  
Faith that will still endure, 
	Through the eternities hence.

Love which all pleasure brings,
Yet "works as well as sings,”
	For our dear baby and me;
Were I not happy now, 
Where must I live and how,	
	That I might happiness see?

Wifehood and motherhood,
These are my jewels good;
	Treasures of heavenly worth;
Pity, whoe'er hath sold,
Such for mere shining gold,
	And the vain baubles of earth!
								LULA.


﻿MIGNONETTE.

	I believe I was the first person who raised mignonette in
this city. A friend in England sent me some seeds in a
letter, and I planted it in a pot and raised it to a tree. My
verses will tell the rest.

		My green-leaved beauty! how I hailed
			Thy advent with delicious joy!
		My careful watches never failed
			To keep thy life without alloy.

		I gave thee heat, and light, and air,
			And water from a living stream;
		I watched thy life with zealous care,
			To keep thy beauties fresh and green.

		My green-leaved beauty was the name 
			I lovingly bestowed on thee,
		Apostrophizing by the same
			The being I rejoiced to see!

		Ah, sad it is to see decay
			The thing we love, perhaps idolize!
		Yet death has often led that way
			My mourning heart, and weeping eyes.

		I could not see thee day by day
			The fell destroyer's victim made,  
		The hand of love alone could lay
			Thee in the grave that love had made.

		No, No, I will not wait to see
			Thy treasured flower droop and die,
		My hand cuts short the dying tree
			My hand in love shall lay it by.

		Dear plant! and wilt thou rise again
			When all things are to life restored?
		Yes, thou, my beauty; shall regain
			Thy place among my treasured hoard.

		No thought but such as lives in heaven
			E'er breathed upon thy perfum'd frame,
		Love was the incense ever given,
			Which shall immortalize thy name.

		My green-leaved beauty fare thee well,
			Till past the winter of the grave— 
		Immortal flower thou then shalt dwell
			And resurrected glories have.


And will thou not regain a voice
		That to my ear will breathe of love?
	E'en in beatitude rejoice
		My soul in mansions up above?

	I do believe—I do believe
		United thou wilt be to me!
	All that is good, I shall receive,
		And good I felt in loving thee!
							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
		MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT.
	
	Ever since the organization of the Mutual
Improvement societies, much has been said
concerning the development of the faculties
God has given us. One may say, “All that is
necessary to be said has been said.” This may
be true, but “it is a wise man who doeth what
he is told for the first time of telling.” Al-
lowing the supposition that we are not all “wise
men,” I will endeavor to point out a few ways
whereby we might improve.
	In the first place it is necessary to under-
stand why we are here upon the earth, what is
our relation to our fellow-beings, and what our
destination after this mortal career is ended.
After these facts have been fully established,
it is time to begin the improvement of our
temporal and spiritual attributes.
	Improvement may be effected in many ways.
One good way is by observation. If we have
good men and women placed over us for our
guidance, we cannot help admiring their good-
ness and intellectual perfections. If we could
fully understand the depth of the impressions
left upon the minds of the young, I think
we would be more exemplary in our habits
and manners than we sometimes are.
Not wishing to be termed acritic, but
speaking only from past experience, I
can truthfully say that impressions were
made upon my mind that have been effaced
when the true character of the individual, con-
sisting only of superficial perfections, was
brought to light.
	Now we all know that the weakness of the
flesh and the vanities of the human mind, when
brought to bear upon spiritual things and sub-
jects of high moral culture, will inevitably tend
towards the grosser qualities of our nature,
unless propitiated by truly practical as well as
theoretical influences. Considering the advan-
tage of exemplary lives, would it not be well
for all who are, or ever expect to be placed in
positions of usefulness, to “practice first what
they preach,” that they might be more success-
ful in the fulfilment of their callings?
	Notwithstanding all this, however, if the
members have no desire to improve, and have
but little, if any, faith in their holy religion,
the precepts of the most zealous, most exem-
plary and wisest of teachers will amount to
but little.  I fully believe that the desires of
the majority are good, and resolves are made
every time meeting is attended to improve at
once, but when the labor and diligence neces-
sary for this work is brought into requisition,
courage fails, and the would-be reformer falls
back into the same old condition, until a new
revival of feeling is experienced. Now it is
all very well to have this feeling, but, if we
wish to improve, we will have to come right
down to hard study in real earnestness, and,
though the improvement may not be seen at
first, there is a gradual development of the
faculties that will, in time, shine forth in bril-
liancy and power, bringing credit and renown
wherever our lot in life may be cast. In
order to gain this desired end let us live so
that the Holy Spirit may always be with us,
for P. P. Pratt says, “The Holy Spirit quickens
all the intellectual faculties, increases, en-
larges, expands and purifies all the natural
passions and affections, and adapts them, by
the gift of wisdom, to their lawful use. It in-

[Column 2]
spires, develops, cultivates and matures all the
fine toned sympathies, joys, tastes, kindred
feelings and affections of our nature. It in-
spires virtue, goodness, tenderness, gentleness
and charity. It develops beauty of person,
form and features. It strengthens, invigorates
and gives tone to the nerves. In short, it is,
as it were, marrow to the bone, joy to the
heart, light to the eyes, music to the ear, and
life to the whole being.”
	[The foregoing essay was written and read
by Mrs. Hattie Jensen at the late Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference in Brigham City.—ED.]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Madame Patti has been offered six thousand
dollars a night to sing in concerts in South
America.

	Miss Cleveland denies that she wrote the
much quoted statement of her views on the
matter of low-necked dresses. But she says
that it expresses her sentiments.

	Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett has nearly
finished a new novel, which will appear in the
Century. Its completion has been delayed by
her illness.

	Miss Abigail Bates, one of the two women,
who, with fife and drum, were instrumental in
driving the British from Scituate Harbor dur-
ing the war of 1812, died last week at the age
of eighty-nine years. She was the last of a
long-lived family.

	Letters attributed to Miss Cleveland on the
subject of dress have caused much comment
pro and con. Perhaps it would be useful to
consider how bare shoulders and arms would
be regarded if men appeared with them in
public. The force of custom has much to do 
with modes of dress. But in our climate
reasons of health, if not of modesty, require
ample protection for the body.

	Dr. Mary Alice Avery wins the reward of
public official recognition at the hands of Dr.
Richardson, for a deed of heroism which he
well designates as "the bravest act of the fire
of February 12." Dr. Avery, at great per-
sonal peril and with wonderful courage and
coolness, rescued an insane patient, who was
shut up in her room at the extreme end of the
fourth-story hall. It was a plucky deed that
should not have waited a whole year for its ac-
knowledgment.—Bulletin.

	Miss Augusta Holmes has nearly finished
composing an opera. She has chosen as her
subject an antique legend of Erin, and has
composed her own libretto. Miss Holmes
spent last autumn in London, studying the
ancient Irish mss. in the British Museum. Her
compositions are played in the concerts of the
conservatoire in Paris, and her symphony on
her favorite theme, "Ireland," has been re-
ceived with acclamation by the French public
and critics.

	The public hearing given by the U.S. House
Committee on Territories, at the Capitol, in
Washington, on Friday, March 19, on the
petition of the American Woman Suffrage
Association, for a law guaranteeing women
equal suffrage in the Territories, was a notable
event. Delegate Carey, of Wyoming, gave
emphatic testimony to the benefit which has
resulted from woman suffrage during sixteen
years' trial in that territory. Representative
John D. Long spoke with effective earnest-
ness in behalf of the proposed legislation.
The addresses of Rev. Annie H. Shaw and
Mrs. Mary Hunt were excellent, and Mr. 
Blackwell made a strong presentation of the
facts justifying and demanding prompt affirma-
tive action on the part of Congress.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah, Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.	
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,		-		-		APRIL 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO THE SISTERS AT HOME.

TO THE WOMEN OF UTAH, IN MASS MEETING
		ASSEMBLED, MARCH 6TH, 1886.

MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:

	Though absent from your midst on this momen-
tous occasion, I am with you in heart and feeling.
Would I were with you, though it is in trying to
benefit our common cause, and not from choice,
that I am still away. Ye are my people, and I can
say as Ruth to Naomi, "Whither thou goest I will
go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge; thy peo-
ple shall be my people, and thy God my God."
	I rejoice in the demonstration you are making
to-day in protesting against indignities, cruelties
and grievous wrongs. It is the duty of every
citizen of the United States to stand boldly forth
in defense of freedom, justice and the rights of
conscience; the people owe this loyalty to their
country, and to this free government established
"by the people and for the people."
	If the women of Utah did not publicly protest
against the indignities and insults that are almost
daily being offered to their sister women, under
pretense of carrying out the provisions of the Ed-
munds law, they would be unworthy the name they
bear, "the women of Zion," and the religion they
have espoused, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
gives freedom to all mankind, both Jew and Gen-
tile, bond and free.
	Our honored forefathers fought for the freedom
of this goodly land, and our noble ancestors, the
Pilgrim band,left home, kindred and the graves of
their dead, and their native country, to find a place
of refuge in which to worshipGod according to the
dictates of their own consciences, enduring the
perils of the mighty deep then unexplored, and of
the wilderness, where savage Indians and beasts
of prey had roamed unmolested from time imme-
morial. And when oppressed and tyrranized over
by unjust men and taxed without representation by
the nation that had refused to them the right to
worship God in the way that seemed to them the
best—they resisted it even to the imperiling of
their lives in that great contest of which we are
all so justly proud—the war of the Revolution.
You know its history, and the blood of those im-
mortalized heroes flows in the veins of hundreds
of the Latter-day Saints.
	You know, too, the sentiments embodied in that
glorious instrument the "Declaration of Independ-
ence," given by inspiration of God. And shall
we not maintain our rights under the Constitution
we are proud to honor, and in accordance with its
provisions, which give to every individual freedom
to worship God as his heart dictates? And have
we not the right when it expressly declares and
definitely states that, "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof?" Yet the
Congress of the United States has passed such a
law and the Supreme Court of the land has de-
clared it constitutional. That law, hard and

[Column 2]
cruel as it seems to us, must be obeyed or the
penalty submitted to, because it has been voted
upon by the majority of those who are empowered
to act for the people, and the masses of the people
who know comparatively nothing of the "Mor-
mons" have decided the matter for them, without
investigation, on the representation of others, and
popular sentiment.
	We are constantly being told that "the fifty-five
millions of people in the United States are deter-
mined to blot out polygamy." Would that the
fifty-five millions of people who are so unrelenting-
ly arrayed against a mere handful to abolish a plu-
rality of wives, would enforce some measure to
secure life, liberty and property and protect virtue,
innocence and the honor of this great people from
the insidious ravages that are eating away the
very life of the nation, destroying the purity of the
young and sapping and undermining the founda-
tions of all that is noblest and best in the struc-
ture of modern society. The proof is apparent
everywhere, that there is a mighty work to do in
the world outside of Utah, and it is not confined
to New England, or New York, Philadelphia or
Washington.
	The women of this fair land are menaced with 
something far more dreadful and nearer home
than a plurality of wives, and there is not a day, if
one observes outside her own immediate home, no,
not an hour, that the sensitive heart is not pained
with the wrongs and the sorrows of women and 
children.
	That greater liberty has been given to women in
our Chnrch than elsewhere is indeed true; that
more equality of sex prevails is undeniable; that
men and women have always voted equally upon
all ecclesiastical matters is a well known fact, and
the utmost freedom of speech has been the right
and privilege of women in the Church from the
first. That all this has been elevating in its ten-
dency, and educational to women every careful
observer must readily perceive. The aim and in-
fluence of our institutions has been to lift woman
up to a higher standard of thought and intelligence,
to protect and guard virtue, to promote self-reli-
ance, and individual development; and it is a
principle of our religion to teach our girls as well
as our boys self-protection, and to instruct our
boys, as well as our girls, that virtue and chastity
are just as essential in man as in woman.
	In common with you I protest mostly solemnly 
and emphatically against the harsh and cruel
measures now being enforced upon our people,
and especially our women and young mothers, who
are from time to time insulted, and every fine feel-
ing of their nature abused, their delicacy and sen-
sibility wounded and outraged by men who are
coarse and cruel; who show no true respect for
womanhood, no regard for the sacredness of
motherhood, And with you I appeal to the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States for pro-
tection from these insults and wrongs to woman,
and would beseech and entreat them for that com-
mon respect and justice to young women and
mothers which the Judges and Courts of the Terri-
tory refuse in every instance to grant,though know-
ing, as they must know, how they violate the most
sacred rights and privileges reserved to woman in
all civilized countries, whatever her condition or
station in life may be.
	And with you I protest against the en-
forcement of any section of a bill, before
it has been made a law according to the 
regular form and order of the government,
and also against unjust Judges and their co-labor-
ers, who pervert and misinterpret the law, and 
usurp power and authority that Congress and the 
Courts have not yet conferred upon them. Com-
pelling a first wife to testify against her husband
is contrary to law, and to the established custom
that has obtained in all ages, and in all civilized
countries, and to threaten with pains and penalties
for refusing to comply with such a requisition is a

[Column 3]
thing unheard of in a country that boasts of its
higher enlightenment, and unbounded protection
to the weaker sex.
	The proposition of Senator Edmunds to dis-
franchise the women of Utah Territory, who have
been invested with the right of suffrage so many
years is simply an act of despotism unworthy a 
man, and can only be aimed at the mere trifle of
political power he would selfishly wrest from
those who have been accused of no offense even
against the Edmunds law; but he hopes perchance
by thus robbing a few defenseless women to throw
the balance of the vote in favor of his own party.
It is not sufficient punishment for this wronged
and persecuted people, to disfranchise all plural 
wives, imprison and banish from their homes and
firesides the husbands of innocent women, and
the fathers of helpless little ones, leaving many
desolated hearths, and filling the land with mourn-
ing, but Senator Edmunds proposes to add insult 
to injury and to disfranchise those who are ac-
cused of no crime whatever. He would rob them 
of a vested right, either for party purposes, or be-
cause of religious belief, making the blow general,
to Mormon and non-Mormon alike, in order to
hide his real motive.
	In the name of justice and of right, I am with
you in indignantly protesting against all the
wrongs and cruelties perpetrated upon the people
of Utah in the name of, and under the sanction of
law; and join heart and hand with you in appeal-
ing to our countrywomen, who value the sanctity 
of home, and the sacredness of family ties, to as-
sist us in maintaining our rights under the Con-
stitution, and also memorializing the President and 
Congress of the United States, entreating them
to grant an impartial administration of the laws,
and to examine into the proceedings of courts and
juries, and take into careful consideration our
present circumstances, and prospects in the near
future, and perchance they may ascertain that
even "Mormon" women have some rights that the
country is bound to respect, and that as rational
beings they are entitled to the protection of the
government under which they live, which guran-
tees to all the rights of conscience.
				Faithfully yours,
						EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Chicago, Ill.


CORRESPONDENCE.
		Hotel Brunswick, Kansas,Mo., 
						March, 15th, 1886. 
Mrs. M. H. Whitney: 
	My Dear Sister Helen:—I have been to Nauvoo,
have seen your old home, in fact have gone over
it, even to the observatory on the top. The Ger-
man people who live in it, have kept it in good
repair, and are rather proud of the fame of its
former possessor, I think. The eldest son, mother
and daughter have died within a short time, and
the eldest one left at home to take charge is very
sorrowful. They have remodled the east wing
very much, and in fact consider it entirely new.
The barns and out-houses are all well kept.
Brigham’s house, too, is about as well preserved,
and it also has had one wing, the west one, altered.
I had very peculiar feelings in going over these
few and other remaining places of the former
greatness and prosperity of Nauvoo. As I walked
those streets, my heart cried out within me, as it
were, for the poor, oppressed and down-trodden,
driven from their homes and compelled to leave
at all hazards rightful inheritances, and indeed
all the comforts of life, plunging into the wilder-
ness unknown, and unexplored, without the very
necessities for support. What cared the mob?
and what effort was ever made to right these
wrongs? None whatever.
	There are people living in Nauvoo to-day, plen-
ty of them, that can testify to these things, have


[Column 1]
told me how they themselves were driven across
the river without food and shelter, and dare not
return until the struggle was past. Now they be-
long, most of them, to the reorganized Church,do
not believe in Brigham Young, and will not ex-
cept any testimony to show that Joseph Smith
ever received a revelation upon and taught the
principle of plural marriage. To one woman,
who related the circumstances of the skirmish
there when the Esquire took part in it, and became
convinced of the truth of the Gospsl, who told
me how she had suffered, and it was indeed pitiful,
I said, “And after enduring all that, are you not
still a Latter-day Saint?” She said, “Yes indeed
I am, but not a Brighamite. I belong to the
original Church. I know Emma was a good
woman, and true, and she persisted in denying
that Joseph ever had more wives or taught any
such doctrine. On her deathbed she declared it
to be false, that he ever had entered into or sus-
tained any such practise." I interrupted her with
this question, “Madame, you say you knew Eliza
R. Snow. If she were sitting here where I am
sitting, and declared solemly to you that Joseph
Smith did teach this doctrine to her, and that she
was actually his wife, would you believe her?"
"No," she replied, "I would not." “Then,” I
replied, "there is no use to try to convince you of
the truth in the matter. Several women have
testified before a Justice of the Peace that they
were his wives, strictly speaking, and you de-
nounce them all as impostors?” “I do!” she said.
Then she went on to tell me about Maria
Lawrence's marriage to Babbitt, and that she had
two children to him, and that she had waited upon
her when these children were born, and she had
talked with her a very great deal, and she was
sure if Maria Lawrence had been Joseph’s wife,
as afterwards represented, she would have told it
to her, Brigham married Maria Lawrence to Al-
mond Babbitt, she said,but Joseph did not practise
these things. She told me several other similar
things, evidently she had been trusted with some
things, and allowed to put her own construction
upon others. I think there are a set of cranks in
and around Nauvoo, if there ever were anywhere
in the world. They have had two or three money
schemes, but they all failed, and seem to leave
them poor. Some of the folks wish the Mormons
had stayed, and think that Nauvoo would have
been a great city by this time; others think the
place was cursed because the Mormons were
shamefully abused, and so on.
	The Icarians have left there, and the larger pro-
portion now are Germans. A great number of
Roman Catholics, who have a nice Church, rather
unpretentious, though the steple is very high,
Catholic Convent for girls, and a department for
boys. There is a small Methodist Church and a
Lutheran, but that is not open now. There is a
sort of mixture there, such as I have never seen
before; old Mormons who have  lost their faith,
but stand up for the people, another class who
have become Josephites, and then a dozen other
kinds; then Germans, French and Jews, a few of
the last, but society such as you usually find in a
town of 1,500 people appears unknown.
	One incident I want to relate to you now, lest I
should forget it when I reach home. I learned,
while in Nouvoo, that Major Bideman’s son had
recently married, supposing it to be a son of a
former wife, I was utterly astonished when, on
my call at the mansion, I was introduced to the
young bridegroom, to see he was so boyish look-
ing; however, I did not betray my surprise, but
after leaving inquired what it meant, as I had been
told this young man's mother had been married to
Major Bideman about a year after Emma's death,
and, of course, this boy must have been born dur-
ing Emma’s lifetime, so I said, “He is the Major’s
stepson or adopted son," quite innocently. "No,"
said the young man, “he is his own son, and he
married the woman after Emma’s death to right

[Column 2]
the wrong he had done her in Emma's life." "O,"
I said. “Yes," said he, “Emma sent for her to
come and wait upon her when she was lying sick,
and told the old Major to marry the woman after
she was dead. “It was the best he could do,”
said the young man. O, thought I, if Emma has
begun righting wrongs, she has plenty of work
on hand. Who can tell? Her life was no doubt
unpleasant enough, with that curious specimen of
humanity—Major Bideman. He was very cordial
with me, and he seemed to take a great deal of
pride in boasting of fighting for the Mormons, and
over and over repeated, "Yes, I did it then, and
I'd do it again." I saw Dr. Weld—he told the
same sort of thing in substance, though in a quiet
and dignified way; also Morrell, the lawyer, who
married Lavinia Hibbard; all these men, you
know, were Gentiles, but Mormon sympathizers,
sneeringly called by mobocrats, “Jack Mormons.”
If one wanted to hear how the MOBS treated the
Mormons, then let them go to Nauvoo and hear
these old settlers talk; it's enough to make one's
blood run cold.
	I have not told you much, after all, but the let-
ter is surely long enough, and I have to go out on
an errand now, but I do assure you I shall be very
glad to get home and see you once more.
	Your father's house in Kirtland has been des-
troyed, so Mary Bond told me. Such lots of
places are gone, that were good when we left
Nauvoo, even. Ruin and desolation have been
the effects after the drivings and persecutions,and
yet men will not be warned. While riding down
the river on the train from Montrose, I heard a
gentleman ask another what place that was across
the river. "That's Nauvoo," said the man, as if
with a sort of pride. “What, where those abomin-
able Mormons lived?" said the questioner. "Well,”
said the man, “everybody will not agree with you
that they are an abomination," and then went on
telling him what a charming place it was said to
be when the Mormons lived there, but the man
was furrious, and I guessed then with what horror
he would have looked upon me had he known I
was a “Mormon." So goes the world.
	Love to all the family—Lillie, Gennie, Charlie
and Flod, and Mary and her children.
				Lovingly,
							EMMELINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]					
						[For the EXPONENT.]
	DEARH OF MRS. MARINDA A. HYDE.

	"Would it be worth the having or giving, 
		The boon of endless breath? 
	Ah! for the weariness that comes of living--
		There is no cure but death. 

	Ours were indeed a fate deserving pity, 
		Were that sweet rest denied;
	And few, methinks, would care to find the city, 
		Where never any die."

	Sister Hyde was elected President of the Relief 
Society of the Seventeenth Ward Feb. 6th, 1869, 
eighteen years ago, which position she has honor-
ably and creditably filled until her death, March
24th, 1886.  She is the third of the first five offi-
cers chosen at that time who have closed their
record for this life, and gone to receive their re-
ward in a nobler and higher world. 
	Hers has been a very eventful life.  Suffering
and coming in the early days of the Church, and
being placed in many trying positions, gave her a
knowledge and experience above many. 
	She was a noble example of the Christian graces. 
When her family or friends were in trouble, she
uttered the words of comfort, of patience and
cheer.  She stood by my side while the dear life 
slipped away whose loss brought me the deepest
sorrow and acutest pain I have ever known.
While she held me in her arms, she soothed the
wild surging waters of grief, telling me that God
the Father had permitted this, that He never made
a mistake, did all things well, and, above all, loved

[column 2]
those on whom He laid His chastening hand. 
Her child-like faith, coupled with a sublime love
of God, made her a friend always to be loved, and
never to be forgotten. 
	Among our labors with the poor, when we have
been tried, she would say, "Well, God made
them, and we must make the best of them."  Thus
breathing into the Society, not only a charity in
works, but a charity for the feelings of all God's
creatures.  With us who have labored with her
so long, I trust that her example will never be
forgotten, and that the love, charity and mercy
she taught us will remain with us through life. 
According to our best ability, we have aided and
succored the poor.  Quoting the words of Jesus, 
she would say, "Remember the poor, for them we
have always," and "Even as ye do it unto the
least of these, ye do it unto me."
	To say that we shall miss her, will express but
very weakly the deep feelings of regret her death
has caused.  Yet for her sake we should be glad. 
To think that now she is not feeble, nor in pain, 
but her gentle, cheerful spirit free to enjoy the
beauties of eternal worlds, is with her loved ones
gone before, mingling with the Church of the
First Born, where she will watch and wait for her
loved ones left behind, and welcome them one by
one as they shall reach her. 
	May the blessings of God rest upon her sons
and her daughters, her relatives and friends, and
may His peace, which passeth all understanding, 
be and abide with her youngest daughter, Zina, 
who has been her companion for so many years. 
May that sweet submission to the providences of
God fill their hearts as it did hers, and may their
prayers reach unto Him who has said He would
heed the orphan's cry.  She was the mother of
ten children, six of whom, two sons and four
daughters, are left to mourn her loss.  She leaves
twenty-six grandchildren and nine great-grand
children. 
	Sister Hyde expressed her gratitude that she
had lived to see the Society Hall built, paid for
and dedicated.  About one hundred members of
the organization followed her remains, after the
mourners, from her home to the meeting house, 
where many sorrowing friends were assembled.  
Addresses were made by Apostle F. D. Richards
and J. H. Smith, who bore affecting testimonies
to her worth, integrity and faithfulness;  also by
Bishop O. F. Whitney, who said she had taken 
her recommend with her to the Church of the
First Born, and to her would be said, "Enter, thou
hast stood firm, where many have trembled; thou
hast been faithful, where many have fallen; enter
into and enjoy the presence of thy Lord!"
	Bishop Tingey bore testimony to her labors
among the poor and distressed of the ward, of
her kind and generous heart, and prayed that her
family, and the Society who had labored with her, 
would follow her noble example. 
	After the benediction had been pronounced, we
all took an affectionate adieu of Sister Hyde, 
wishing her joy, rest and peace, and congratulat-
ing her that her trials were over.  While the
friends were viewing the remains, the choir and
Society sang, "Weep, weep not for me Zion,"
which has been a funeral hymn to us, as each one
of our number have passed away. 
	A large cortege followed her remains to the
cemetery, where, after the dedicatory prayer by
Bishop Whitney, they were consigned, to await
the coming of the Son of Righteousness. 
						LYDIA D. ALDER, 
	Salt Lake City, March 27th, 1886.


THE LADIES' APPEAL

	MEMORIAL FROM THE WOMEN OF UTAH
		TO THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS.

	The committee appointed at the Ladies'
Mass Meeting on March 6th to memorialize
the President and Congress of the United


[Column 1]
States in relation to the treatment received by
the people of Utah, have completed their work,
and the following is the

			MEMORIAL.

To the Honorable President, and the Senate
	and House of Representatives of the United
	States in Congress Assembled.

	GENTLEMEN—We, you memorialists, re-
spectfully represent that at a mass meeting of
the women of Utah, held in the Theatre, Salt
Lake City, March 6, 1886, attended by over
two thousand ladies, representing the wives,
mothers, sisters and daughters of the whole
Territory, the following was unanimously
adopted:

	[Here followed the resolutions, which were
published in the last issue of this paper.—ED.]

	In pursuance of this appointment we pre-
sent the following in behalf of the women
of Utah:
	On the 22nd of March, 1882, an act of
Congress was passed which is now commonly
known as the Edmunds law. It was generally
understood to have been framed for the pur-
pose of settling what is called the Utah ques-
tion, by condoning plural marriages up to that
date and preventing their occurrence in the
future, and also to protect the home, maintain
the integrity of the family and shield innocent
women and children from the troubles that
might arise from its enforcement. But instead
of being administered and executed in this
spirit, it has been made the means of inflicting
upon the women of Utah immeasurable sorrow
and unprecedented indignities, of disrupting
families, of destroying homes, and of outrag-
ing the tenderest and finest feelings of human
nature.
	The law has been so construed by the courts
as to bring its penalties to bear upon the in-
nocent. Men who had honestly arranged with
their families so as to keep within the limits
of the law, have been punished with the great-
est possible severity, and their wives and child-
ren have been forced before courts and grand
juries, and compelled to disclose the most sacred
and private relations which in all civilized 
countries are held sacred to the parties. The
meaning of the law has been changed so many 
times that no one can say definitely what is its
signification. Those who have lived by the
law, as interpreted in one case, find, as soon
as they are entrapped, that a new ren-
dering is constructed to make it applicable to
their own. Under the latest ruling, a man
who has contracted plural marriages, no mat-
ter at how remote a date, must not only repudi-
ate his families and cease all connection with
them, but if he is known to associate with
them in the most distant manner, support them
and show any regard whatever for their wel-
fare, the offense of unlawful cohabitation is
considered to have been fully established, and
he is liable to exorbitant fines and imprison-
ment for an indefinite period, one district judge 
holding that a separate indictment may be
found for each day of such association and
recognition. In the case of Solomon Edwards,
recently accused of this offense, it was proven
by the evidence for the prosecution, that the
defendant had lived with one wife only since
the passage of the Edmunds Act, but after 
having separated from his former plural wife,
he called with his legal wife at the former's
residence to obtain a child, an agreement hav-
ing been made that each party should have
one of the two children, and the court ruled
that this was unlawful cohabitation in the
meaning of the law, and defendant was con-
victed.
	In the case of Lorenzo Snow, now on ap-
peal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, the evidence for the prosecution showed

[Column 2]
that the defendant had lived with only one
wife since the passage of the Edmunds law,
that he had not even visited other portions of
his family except to call for a few moments to
speak to one of his sons, but because he sup-
ported his wives and children and did not ut-
terly and entirely cast them off, under instruc-
tions of Judge Orlando W. Powers he was
convicted three times for the alleged offense
and sentenced in each case to the full penalties
of the law, aggregating $900 fine besides costs,
and eighteen months' imprisonment, the Judge
stating in his instructions to the jury: "It is
not necessary that the evidence should show
that the defendant and these women, or either
of them, occupied the same bed, slept in the
same room or dwelt under the same roof." "The
offense of cohabitation is complete, when a
man, to all outward appearances, is living or
associating with two or more women as his
wives."
	The women who are dependent upon the
men whom they regard as their husbands, with
whom they have lived, as they have regarded
it, in honorable wedlock, must not only be
separated from their society and protection,
but must be treated as outcasts and be driven
forth with their children to shame and distress,
for the bare "association" of friendship is
counted a crime and punished with all the
severity inflicted upon those who have not in
any way severed their plural family rela-
tions.	
	In order to fasten the semblance of guilt
upon men accused of this offense, women are
arrested and forcibly taken before sixteen men
and plied with questions that no decent woman
can hear without a blush. Little children are ex-
amined upon the secret relations of their pa-
rents, and wives in regard to their own condi-
tion and the doings of their husbands. If
they decline to answer they are imprisoned in
the penitentiary as though they were criminals.
A few instances we will cite for your considera-
tion:
	In the Third District Court Nov. 14, 1882,
Annie Gallifant, having been asked by the
Grand Jury a number of questions which she
declined to answer, one of them being as to
the name of the man to whom she was married,
she was brought into court, and still declining,
was sent to the penitentiary where, although
daily expecting to become a mother, she was
kept till the Grand Jury was discharged. On
the trial of John Connelly, she was again
brought into court and asked: "When did
you first cohabit with your husband?"
	"How long after you commenced cohabit-
ing with your husband was it that your child
was born?"
	Miss B. Harris was sentenced to fine and
imprisonment in the Second District Court at
Beaver, by Judge Twiss, because she declined
to answer whether she was a married woman,
and if so, who was her husband. She was
taken to the penitentiary, a building used for
the confinement of criminals of the most hide-
ous types, with her babe in her arms, and
leaving one behind with her mother. When
asked the questions mentioned, by the grand
jury, she answered, "Gentlemen, you have no
legal right to ask this question; and I decline
to answer it."
	The question was an insult and a vile in-
sinuation of departed virtue; and yet were she
a public prostitute, no such question would ever
be asked. She was fined $25 and imprisoned
three and a half months, when she was released
by Judge Twiss. She is a lady with strength
of character, who was defending a principle;
her right as a witness was as sacred as any
right recognized in courts. She was a martyr
to personal right, and in defense of a vital
principle of freedom. The question was
not directed to her knowledge of any crime, but
to her social relation to another, she not being
charged with any crime.

[Column 3]
	On May 22, 1884, in the same court, Nellie
White, for refusing to answer personal questions
in regard to her relations with Jared Roundy,
was sent to the penitentiary, under the same
roof with murderers, burglars and other con-
victs, and confined there until July 7th, the
Grand Jury being kept over and not discharged
for the purpose of protracting her imprison-
ment until the beginning of a new term.
	In the court of U. S. Commissioner McKay,
June 20, 1885, Elizabeth Ann Starkey was
brought in as a witness against Charles S.
White. On refusing to answer the question,
"Have you ever in this county, within the last
two years, occupied the same bed with defend-
ant," she was sentenced to one day's imprison-
ment and a fine of $50, and placed in the cus-
tody of the U. S. Marshal until payment.
	On June 22nd, she again declined to answer,
and was fined $100 and committed until pay-
ment.
	On June 24th she refused to answer similar
personal questions to the grand jury, and was
committed to the penitentiary until August
21st, but was again imprisoned and kept till
October 6th. While in prison she was ap-
proached and grossly insulted by an employe
of the Marshal's.
	On the 15th of September, 1885, Eliza
Shafer was sent to the penitentiary for refusing
to answer the question, "Have you, within three
years past, lived and cohabited with J. W.
Snell as his wife?" The Court ordered her im-
prisonment until the question was answered.
	On February 15th, 1886, Mrs. Martha F.
Cannon was brought into the Third District
Court, and the Grand Jury complained that
she would not answer certain questions, among
them the following: "Are you not now a preg-
nant woman?" "Are you not now with child
by your husband, George Q. Cannon?" On
still declining to answer, the Court adjudged her
guilty of contempt, and pending sentence she
was placed under bonds of $2,500, which were
subsequently raised to $5,000.
	On March 2nd, 1886, Miss Huldah Winters
was arrested by Deputy Marshal Vandercook
at her home in Pleasant Grove, forty miles dis-
tant, no charge being preferred against her,
but it was suspected that she was a plural wife
of George Q. Cannon. She was brought to
Salt Lake City and conducted to the court
house, where she was required to furnish bonds
for $5,000 for her appearance from time to 
time as she might be wanted.
	Under the suspicion that any woman or
young lady is some man's plural wife she is
liable at any time to be arrested, not merely
subpoenaed, but taken by force by deputy mar-
shals and brought before a grand jury and ex-
amined and brow-beaten and insulted by the
Prosecuting Attorney or his minions. But
this is not all. In defiance of law and the
usages of courts for ages, the legal wife is now
compelled to submit to the same indignities.
	On Feb. 20, 1886 in the Third District Court
in the second trial of Isaac Langton upon
whom the prosecution had failed to fasten the
slightest evidence of guilt, Prosecuting At-
torney Dickson exclaimed: "If the Court will
allow me I would like to call Mrs. Langton"
(defendant's legal wife.) After a strong pro-
test from the attorneys for the defendant, the
Court permitted the outrage and against her
and her husband's consent, she was compelled
to testify for the prosecution; the evidence
however completely exonerating the husband,
who was discharged.
	But this has now been set up as a precedent,
and within the past few days a legal wife has
been taken before the Grand Jury, as many
have been before, who refused to give evidence,
but this time was compelled to answer the
questions propounded by the public prosecutor
against the lawful husband.
	We also direct your attention to the out-


[Column 1]

rages perpetrated by rough and brutal deputy
marshals, who watch around our dooryards,
peer into our bedroom windows, ply little child-
ren with questions about their parents, and
when hunting their human prey, burst into
people's domiciles and terrorize the innocent.
	On Jan. 11, 1886, early in the morning, five
deputy marshals appeared at the residence of
Wm. Grant, American Fork, forced the front
door open, and while the inmates were still in
bed, made their way up stairs to their sleeping
apartments. There they were met by one of
the daughters of Wm. Grant, who was aroused
at the intrusion, and despite her protestations,
without giving time for the object of their
search to get up and dress himself, made their
way into his bedroom, finding him still in bed
and his wife en dishabille in the act of dressing
herself.
	Early on the morning of Jan. 13, 1886, a
company of deputies invaded the peaceful vil-
lage of West Jordan, and under pretense of
searching for polygamists, committed a num-
ber of depredations. Among other acts of
violence they intruded into the house of F. A.
Cooper, arrested him and subpoenead his legal
wife as a witness against him. This so shocked
her that a premature birth occurred next day,
and her system was so deranged by the disturb-
ance that in a few days she was in her grave.
	Feb. 23, 1886, at about 11 o'clock at night,
two deputy marshals visited the house of
Solomon Edwards, about seven miles from
Eagle Rock, Idaho, and arrested Mrs. Edwards,
his legal wife, after she had retired to bed, and
required her to accompany them immediately
to Eagle Rock. Knowing something of the
character of one of the deputies, from his hav-
ing visited the house before, when he indulged
in a great deal of drinking, profanity and abuse,
she feared to accompany them without some
protection, and requested a neighbor to go
along on horseback while she rode in the buggy
with the two deputies. On the way the buggy
broke down and she with an infant in her
arms, was compelled to walk the rest of the
distance—between two and three miles.
	They could have no reason for subpoenaing
her in the night, and compelling her to accom-
pany them at such an untimely hour except a
fiendish malice and a determination to heap
all the indignities possible upon her because
she was a "Mormon" woman, for she never at-
tempted to evade the serving of the warrant,
and was perfectly willing to report herself at
Eagle Rock the next day. She was taken to
Salt Lake City to testify against her husband.
	On Feb. 23, 1886, Deputy Marshal Gleason
went to Greenville, near Beaver, Utah. The
story of their conduct is thus related by the
ladies who were the subjects of their violence:

MRS. EASTON'S STATEMENT.

	About 7 a.m. deputies came to our house and
demanded admittance. I asked them to wait
until we got dressed, and we would let them in.
Deputy Gleason said he would not wait, and
raised the window and got partly through by
the time we opened the door, when he drew
himself back and came in through the door.
He then went into the bed-room; one of the
young ladies had got under the bed, from which
Gleason pulled the bedding, and ordered the
young lady to come out. This she did, and
ran into the other room, where she was met by
Thompson. I asked Gleason why he pulled
the bedding from the bed, and he answered,
"By G—d, I found Watson in the same kind
of a place." He then said he thought Easton
was concealed in a small compass, and that he
expected to find him in a similar place, and
was going to get him before he left.

MISS MORRIS' STATEMENT,

	Deputy Gleason came to my bed and pulled
the clothing off me, asking if there was any

[Column 2]

one in bed with me. He then went to the
fire-place and pulled a sack of straw from there
and looked up the chimney. One of them
next pulled up a piece of carpet, when Glea-
son asked Thompson if he thought there was
any one under there. Thompson said, "No,"
and Gleason exclaimed, "G—d—it, we
will look any way!" They also looked in cup-
boards, boxes, trunks, etc., and a small tea
chest, but threw nothing out.

WILLIAM THOMAS' STATEMENT.

	The deputies called at our place about day-
break, and came to my window and rapped. I
asked who was there, but received no answer.
They then tried to raise the window, when I
called again, and they said they were officers.
I asked them to wait until I was dressed, but
they said no, or they would break in the door.
I told them they had better let that out, and
they went around to mother's door, which
was opened, and father was summoned. The
deputies next went to the bed of Mrs. Elliotts
and subpoenaed her. Gleason said, with a
frightful oath, that he knew there was another
woman in the house, and searched in boxes,
trunks, etc.
	These are a few instances of the course pur-
sued towards defenseless women, who are not
even charged with any offense against the law.
We solemnly protest against these desecrations
of our homes and the invasions of our rights.
We are contented with our lot when left un-
molested, and would enjoy the peace of quiet
homes, the society of our husbands and child-
ren, and the blessings that only belong to God-
fearing families trained to habits of thrift, 
temperance, self-restraint and mutual help, if
it were not for these outrages which are com-
mitted in the name of law, under the false
pretense of protecting home and preserving
the family.
	We learn that measures are in contempla-
tion before your honorable bodies to still fur-
ther harass and distress us. We protest against
the movement to deprive us of the elective
franchise, which we have exercised for over
fifteen years. What have we done that we
should thus be treated as felons? Our only
crime is that we have not voted as our persecu-
tors dictate. We sustain our friends, not our
enemies, at the polls. We declare that in
Utah the ballot is free. It is entirely secret.
No one can know how we vote unless we choose
to reveal it. We are not compelled by any
men, or society, or influence to vote contrary to
our own free convictions. No woman living
with a bigamist, polygamist, or person cohabit-
ing with more than one woman, can now vote
at any election in Utah. Why deprive those
against whom nothing can be charged, even by
implication, of a sacred right which has be-
come their property?
	We ask for justice. We appeal to you not
to tighten the bonds which are now so tense
that we can scarcely endure them. We ask
that the laws may be fairly and impartially
executed. We see good and noble men dragged
to jail to linger among felons, while debauched
and polluted men, some of them Federal offi-
cers who have been detected in the vilest kind
of depravity, protected by the same court and
officers that turn all their energies and engines
of power toward the ruin of our homes and
the destruction of our dearest associations.
We see pure women forced to disclose their
conjugal relations or go to prison, while the
wretched creatures who pander to men's basest
passions are left free to ply their horrible
trade, and may vote at the polls, while legal
wives of men with plural families are dis-
franchised. We see the law made specially
against our people, so shamefully administered
that every new case brings a new construction
of its meaning, and no home is safe from in-
stant intrusion by ruffians in the name of the

[Column 3]

law. And now we are threatened with entire
deprivation of every right and privilege of
citizenship, to gratify a prejudice that is fed on
ignorance and vitalized by bigotry.
	We respectfully ask for a full investigation
of Utah affairs. For many years our hus-
bands, brothers and sons have appealed for
this in vain. We have been condemned, al-
most unheard. Everything reported to our
detriment is received; our cries to be heard
have been rejected. We plead for suspension
of all measures calculated to deprive us of our
political rights and privileges, and to harass,
annoy and bring our people into bondage and
distress, until a commission duly and specially
authorized to make full inquiry into the affairs
of this Territory, have investigated and re-
ported. And while the blessing of Him who
will one day deal out even-handed justice to all,
shall rest upon your honorable bodies, your
memorialists, as in duty bound, will ever pray,
etc.
		MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL,
		MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE,
		MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
		DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
		MRS. H. C. BROWN,
		MRS. MARY PITCHFORTH,
		MISS IDA I. COOK,
		MRS. IDA COOMBS,
		MRS. MARY JOHN,
			Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.

		BRIGHAM CITY, Mar, 18, 1886.

Editor Exponent:
	It is some length of time since the young ladies
of Box Elder County have been represented
through your columns so I take this opportun-
ity of briefly reporting our present condition.
	On the evening of the 8th inst. our taber-
nacle was filled with a large, orderly and ap-
preciative audience who had assembled to
witness an entertainment given under the aus-
pices of the officers of the Y. M. and Y. L.
M. I. Associations of Brigham City when the
following programme was presented: Glee,
"The wolf is on the hill," by the choir. Prayer
by N. Madison. Singing, "The coming day,"
children of Israel from Egypt," by E. A. Box;
Music by Theatre Orchestra; Essay on "Mutual
Improvement," Mrs. Hattie Jensen; Rec.
"Creeds of the Bells," J. D. Peters; Quartette,
"Moonlight will come again," Pres. Minnie J.
Snow and others;  Rec. "The Wich's Daugh-
ter," Miss Freddie Widerborg. Solo and
chorus, "Once a friend, a friend forever," Miss
Ettie Madsen and others; Address, Pres. N. P.
Andersen; Rec. O. N. Stohl. Jr.; Duet, "See the
pale moon," Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Pierce; Rec.
"Jehovah's triumph over Baal," Eph Jensen.
Violin Solo and organ accompanyment "Sweet
Spirit hear my prayer," C. Christensen and
Mrs. Pierce.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow followed in a short
address; his remarks were replete with wise
counsel and advice to the young, and en-
couraged them in the onward march of im-
provement. This  proved his last appearance
in public before going to the Penitentiary.
	The Y. L. Quarterly Conference of Box
Elder Stake, convened in the Brigham City
tabernacle Mar. 10th 1886, at 10 a. m. Prest.
Minnie J. Snow presiding. Although the
weather was extremely unfavorable,
it did not prevent a good attendance.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest. M.
J. Snow offered a few words of greeting. Felt
grateful that we were still permitted to peace-
fully assemble for purposes of worship, in
these troublesome times, Secretary L. S.
Pelro[-] road the semi annual reports exhibiting


a very favorable condition of the Associations
throughout the stake.
	Presidents Anna Hansen, Amy Madsen,
Eliza Davis and others offered interesting and
spirited remarks filled with advice and exhor-
tations to the young girls to tread the path of
virtue and be loyal to the principles of truth.
The following subjects, "The Art of Conversa-
tion," by Lydia S. Pierce; "Fashion and Dress,"
Coun. Freddie Widerborg; "Association of
the Sexes," Coun. Hattie Jensen; "Deportment
in places of worship," Prest. Minnie J. Snow;
"Obedience to the Priesthood," Ettie Madsen;
and "Politeness," by Phena Madsen,were treat-
ed upon in an able, impressive and intelligent
manner; quotations from reliable authors were
cited and the virtues and evils of the different
features of these subjects dwelt upon by the
speakers.
	Bro. N. P. Anderson, Stake Prest. of the
Y. M. M. I. A. then addressed the sisters; tes-
tified that the Spirit of the Lord had been
present.  He spoke of the principle of virtue,
and considered it one of the greatest gifts
given to us in the world since it is eternal, we
should remember that our  actions are also
eternal. He asked God’s help to assist us in;
practising the instructions given. Singing.
Benediction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	A commendable interest in he work of Im-
provement is noticable; particularly among the
officers of our association here, who are indeed,
laboring with  their might” in its cause.
		Respectfully,
	ANNIE N. BOWRING, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The most novel innovation of prison disci-
pline ever recognized in the Michigan State
Prison occurred to-day when the "Mikado" was
given in the prison chapel, with 500 convicts
for an audience. The scheme was originated
and carried out by Gen. A. H. Whitington of
the Whitington-Cooley Manufacturing Com-
pany as a feature in the annual banquet to
their convict laborers. The prisoners were al-
lowed to talk and give vent to their joy and a
more enthusiastic audience never greeted a
theatre company. No little unfavorable com-
ment prevails.

	Mrs. Julia Romana Anagnos, wife of
Michael Anagnos and eldest child of the late
Dr. Samuel G. and Mrs. Julia Ward Howe,
died at her home last evening.
	[She was born in Rome, Italy, in 1844.
Mrs. Anagnos was a woman of a broad intel-
lectual mind and a clever writer. A volume of
her poems "Stray Chords," was published in
1883. Three years ago she founded in Boston
the Metaphysical Club. The best modern
thinkers were attracted to it by its expositors
of thought. In her early womanhood she was
married to Michael Anagnos, a Greek philan-
thropist who is the Superintendent of the Per-
kins Institution for the Blind.]


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Powdered rice is said to have a great effect in stopping
bleeding from fresh wounds.
	Julienne Potatoes.—Peel, wash and cut like matches
three medium-sized potatoes; dry them in a towel and fry
in very hot lard; drain, sprinkle salt over them while shak-
ing in the pan, and serve.
	The stains of iron-rust on stone may be partially removed
by washing the stone with hydrochloric acid diluted with
four parts of water; then wash with clean water. If the
stone is marble, use oxalic acid in solution of water.
	Apples and potatoes should never be kept in the same
cellar, or, if this is unavoidable, the potatoes should be
kept in the warmest part of the cellar, and the barrels of
apples, well heaped up; near the windows, where, on days
when the air outside is only a few degrees above freezing,
they can be treated to a cold breeze from the open windows.


while at the same time the atmosphere in the part of the
cellar where the potatoes are kept does not fall below forty
degrees.
	Treatment of Burns by Boracic Acid Oil.—Mr. C.J .
Bond, F. R. C. S., surgeon to the Leicester Infirmary,
says, "I have found that eighteen grains of powdered
boracic acid, dissolved in a drachm of hot glycerine and
added to an ounce of olive-oil, forms a kind of imperfect
emulsion, the glycerine retaining the acid in solution when
cold. This can be easily shaken up with the oil. This
makes a non-irritating and doubly antiseptic dressing, and
extensive burns treated thus, and covered with a layer of
antiseptic wool, require to be disturbed but seldom, and, it
not perfectly aseptic, are far 'sweeter' than when dressed
with, for instance, carron-oil."


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Midway, Wasatch Co., Feb. 9th, 1886, Sister
Mary Bronson, after a lingering illness. She was an ener-
getic member of the Relief Society, and acted as Secretary
of the ward for a number of years, also as Stake Secretary.
She died in full faith of the Gospel, and in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.

	DIED, in Goshen, Utah Co., February, 1886, Annie
Jenkins; also at Goshen, March, 1886, Eugene Taylor,
both members of the Goshen Primary Association.
Touching resolutions of respect were read before the As-
sociation, and it was ordered that a copy be presented to
the parents of each of the deceased, and also preserved on
the pages of the records of the Association.	

	We have just laid to rest a dear sister—Ellen Van Buren
Snow—a faithful and devoted wife, a patient and loving
mother, one whose name was on every donation list. She
never failed to respond to the call for contribution, was a
member of the Relief Society, and a true Latter-day Saint.
She leaves many friends, a sorrowing mother, a doting hus- 
band and eight little darlings to mourn for and miss her.
She was born in Missouri, in 1846, amid the persecutions
and exodus of the Saints, where she early lost her father.
The mother brought her family to the valleys, and reared 
them to the best of her ability. Wishing long life and 
prosperity to the EXPONENT and all its friends, I remain,
		A MEMBER OF THE R. S.

	DIED, at her home in the 4th Ward, Salt Lake City,
Feb. 12th, 1886, Mary Bundy, aged eighty-three years and
three months, relict of the late George Bundy. Having no
children of her own, she adopted two children of her
brother's—Job and Ann Smith—their mother dying when
the latter was an infant. She was baptized in the year
1840, by Brother Woodruff, at the time the whole society
called the "United Brethren" received the Gospel. She
left her native land March 8th, 1843, and arrived in Nau-
voo May 31st, and was there through all the persecutions
of the Saints and the martyrdom of the Prophets, with
whom she was well acquainted; traveled and camped with
the Saints on the banks of the Missouri River, where,
through privation, her husband contracted the disease called
the black scurvy, and was thereby deprived of the use of
his limbs for two years. They started for the valley in the
spring of 1848, at which time he was using crutches, which 
obliged her to drive and attend her own cows and oxen.
They traveled the entire distance from Nauvoo to Salt
Lake in a wagon made entirely of wood, the felloes being 
wrapped in raw hide. She died firm in the faith of the
Gospel with the hope of a glorious resurrection.


[column 1]

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[column 2]

"Domestic!" 
The Sewing Machine of the Age! 
5,000 Now in Use in Utah. 
[surrounding black and white picture of sewing machine:

Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years.]

Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street,  Old Constitution Building,
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETSAND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

