VOL. 14	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1885.	No. 9.


"AT REST!"

Through mossy tombstones, old and grey,
That near a ruined abbey lay, 
	Pensive I strayed;
So dim th' inscriptions on the stones,
Unknown the names of those whose bones
	Beneath them laid.
Unnoticed, came the ev'ning sky;
Unminded rose the unconscious sigh
	Up from the breast,
(Dreaming, perhaps, of brighter days,)
When, full beneath my wond'ring gaze
	I saw "At Rest!"
Two words, there, full upon the sod,
As if, with faces turned to God
	In calm repose;
No tombstone near, no fresh-made monnd,
No tear-dimmed eye, no ling'ring sound
	That spoke of woes.
But, like a daisy in the grass,
Unseen of thoughtless as they pass,
	(Half hid in green,)
Mayhap by loving eyes were traced,
By loving hands on tomb were placed
	These words, I ween.
Nor was it dreamed these words, by chance,
Might stay the careless, slow advance
	Of wayward feet;
Nor thought they from that tomb should fall
And, to a thoughtless mind recall
	That life is fleet,
That days are few; that hours speed fast;
That, though we strive from first to last
	With steadfast strain,
Life's worthy battle ne'er is won--
Something that's needful to be done
	Will yet remain.
Some wayward habit to abjure;
Some ling'ring thought, not wholly pure,
	A joyless hate
That from the heart must needs be torn;
From some friend's path to pluck a thorn--
	'Tis ne'er too late.
Thus striving on, life must be spent,
Still something to forgive, repent,
	Ere yet we're blest;
Ere yet the soul speeds unto God;
Ere yet beneath the freshen'd sod
	We're laid "At Rest!"
"At Rest!" At Rest!" O solemn thought!
With deep, with soulful quest'nings fraught,
	Thou fill'st the mind;
And joy too bring'st. What can express
The rapture spirits feel that press
	On, unconfined!
To think the madden'd, fever'd brain
Shall rest--life's never ending strain
	At length must cease,
To feel the bleeding heart no more
Shall bleed, to know the test is o'er!
	Ah! This is peace!
Ere yet the spirit leaves this coil,
But once to gaze back on the toil
	Of weary life,
And, seeing, know (while weak and frail,
While much remains o'er which to wail--
	Unconquer'd strife,)
Thou still hast won th' approving smile
Of Him o'erwatching all the while,
	Then art thou blest!
Bound, Spirit! at thy ransomed birth!
Sleep, Body, in the waiting earth!
	And sigh "At Rest!" --Millenial Star. 
	R. W. Sloan.


[Column 1]

﻿GIRLS, DON'T MISTAKE BRASS FOR
GOLD.

	The bestowal of the affections of a woman
is a strange subject, perhaps, to dilate upon,
but one which, in my estimation, should be
dwelt upon and discussed far more than it has
hitherto been, for by the bestowal may come
joy and happiness, or woe and heartache.
	Who would wish for shadow when they could
have sunshine? Who would wish for hell
when they could gain heaven? Methinks I
can answer for all—not one. Then why should
we not be more wise and discreet in the choice
of a husband, when, by the selection, may
come life-long sorrow, tears, and wishes for an
early grave.
	How often some of us are fascinated by the
bland, wicked smile of one of the opposite
sex, and fall a victim to the snarer. Such is
the case many times with a young, thoughtless
girl, and often those more mature are thus in-
fluenced. How many rush headlong into
wedded life,never pausing to think,or to realize
the importance of the step they are about to
take; some, perhaps,with a very short acquaint-
ance. But alas! they awaken to a realization
of the extent of their folly all too late; they
know nothing of one another’s tastes and
habits, therefore they are not very likely to
agree; one quarrel brings on another, until a
final separation ensues, or they drag out a life
of misery and despair together; this is most in-
variably the case with too hasty courtships and
marriages.
	Oft times one fancies herself in love with a
gentleman whose main forte, in making him-
self agreeable, are his expressive looks, wit and
nonchalant manner. They wed; he, of course,
soon tires of always showing this part of his
character; he then becomes surly and quiet,
and she finds to her sorrow that all that attract-
ed her, or caused her to imagine herself in love,
has flown. She has found out the truth of the
maxim, "All that glitters is not gold," too
late.
	Then we should be careful not to mistake
brass for gold, dross for silver—to be sure that
we have the real, genuine metal; then we are
more confident of happiness.
	Sitting by my open window, this afternoon,
busily employed with writing material, two
pictures are visible to my mind's eye, which I
shall try to describe.

FIRST PICTURE.
	I see a beautiful girl sitting alone in her
boudoir. She is about to write, for she has
two letters before her; two proposals of mar-
riage. She seems in a dilemma which to ac-
cept. Hush! These words escape her lips:
"Which shall it be? Both rich and handsome,
and one so witty and gay, that I am always so
pleased when in his society; the other, while
wealthy, is so quiet and dignified, I am quite
sure I would be miserable with him, or I
should be afraid of him, and I think I love the
other best."
	The beautiful head bends lower over her
writing; she pens the word that silently seals
her fate. In one brief moment she has marred
the happiness of her whole life-time. She has
unconsciously mistaken brass for gold.
	I look a little ahead, perhaps two or three
years; I see that same beautiful being, but
alas! not that same bright, happy face; there is
a hapless look in those dark, mournful eyes, as

[Column 2]

she stands on the open verandah, awaiting her
husband's return home. Ah! he comes; does
she spring forward to meet him as of yore?
Oh, no! If she had, think you those arms
would have opened to receive her in a warm
embrace? To all appearance they would not.
A cool "Good evening," is his greeting. They
pass into the sitting room, where all betokens
luxury. A servant enters and announces tea.
They enter the dining room. While seated
there only now and then an occasional word
passed from either of them. After their even-
ing meal, they pass back to the sitting room;
she to while away her time with some fancy
work, which I see in her listless fingers, he to
don slippers, and to throw himself down on a
low sofa with a novel in his hand, and soon
reads himself to sleep; while his wife—the
work has fallen from her hands, and her eyes
are closed in thought; not in slumber, but in
thought; nor do I think they can be very pleas-
ant reflections, by the painful shadow that now
and then creeps over her face, and by the way
those small white hands are clenched, as they
are interlocked in one another. A tear steals
silently down her cheek. She hastily wipes
all traces of it away, and softly walks to where
her sleeping husband lies. She bends over
him with a woe-begone look her face, and
words escape her lips. I plead guilty of
eaves-dropping, and bend nearer to listen: "So
unlike what he was before we were wed; then
he was always so witty, gay and kind; then I
was happy; but it did not, could not last." A
sob escapes her lips, as she turns and silently
leaves theroom.

SECOND PICTURE.
	Listen, while I disclose to you this beautiful
picture. 
	In the parlor of an aristrocatic mansion, a
slim, graceful figure, elegantly attired, pacing
to and fro as if in thought; finally she com-
munes to herself aloud. "Alas! the time has
come when I must make a decision between
these two gentlemen. One rich, witty, dashing
in manners, and, I believe, warm-hearted; but
the question is, would this last always? If not,
what would there be to attract or draw my at-
tention afterward? I do not think he is often
serious. I must choose wisely, for the happi-
ness of my life is at stake; I must not imagine
I love unless I do."
	"This other gentleman, although not wealthy,
when in his society, he seems towering to
heights far above me, in intellect, and—(and a
delicate blush mantles her cheek)—I think I
could easily learn to love him, and I should be
sure of happiness, as he is so intelligent and
refined."
	There is a determination in those soft blue
eyes, as this part of the vision slowly fades
away.
	Again I see her. She is on a lawn in front
of her residence, racing and romping with
three beautiful children, who are laughing and
crowing in childish glee; but who comes silent-
ly and unperceived on the background? It is
a man of noble, commanding presence. His
arms are folded across his chest, a smile hovers
around that stern mouth, as, unseen, he watches
the happy group, and a fond look steals into
those keen, dark eyes. Finally he advances
toward them; they perceive him and rush for-
ward, and each in turn receives a fond caress.
Surely she has not mistaken brass for gold.
No. I will draw back unpreceived and leave
them to their happiness.


These two scenes have convinced me that in-
telligence and nobility of character will surely
beget true love. Our religion teaches us to
keep ourselves pure, holy and truthful; to re-
gard the marriage vow as something too sacred
to be trifled with. And then again, when we
think of the great privileges we have of marry-
ing for time and eternity, it behooves each
party to think long and well before taking that
all-important step. We should make the
choice of a husband a matter of prayer,
		IDA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	When hearing the rehearsal of trials, priva-
tions and hardships endured by the camp of
Israel, while journeying from the Mississippi
River to the Missouri, my mind inadvertently
turns to that portion between Nauvoo and
Garden Grove, as the darkest in my memory.
We were poorly prepared for such an exodus;
and many joining us who were anxious to come,
but had little or nothing of the necessaries for
their own sustenance, ours had to be divided
among them. We had many weeks of cold,
stormy weather, and our teams being insuffic-
ient to draw the loads, rendered traveling over
those soft praries next thing to an impossibility;
expecting, as we did, to go over the mountains
that year we were put on rations, and had to
lengthen out our flour and provisions in the
most economical manner. During that time
our sea biscuit, crackers, parched corn meal,
etc., which were among the luxuries, molded,
until finally they were fed out to our horses
and cattle. At the beginning of the journey
the crackers went very well to eat dry, but
I'll never forget the first time I saw a meal
made of sea biscuit broken into milk. I had
called at Uncle Brigham's tent—I had always
addressed him by that title—where he was
just taking some for dinner, and he invited me
to have a bowl; but I declined, with thanks,
and a feeling of wonder how he could relish it.
When it came to sitting down daily to milk
and water porridge and crackers in it, it be-
came so nauseous that hunger could not tempt
me to eat it.
	At this period the young, and even aged
people were forced to walk, if it were possible,
a goodly portion of the way to save the teams,
no matter what the weather might be, storms,
or excessive heat, or how weary, faint and foot-
sore we became, there was no alternative but
to endure till we had reached the spot called
Garden Grove. Here they unpacked and
sent out many valuables into the Missouri set-
tlements and exchanged them for provisions
and the most needful articles. They also
traded horses for oxen and milch cows, and
from that time our living was more comfort-
able. Father's and Bishop Whitney's families
were divided up into messes, each tent having
one or two women to cook for the teamsters,
and wagons were provided for all the women
and their little children to ride and to sleep in
at night. Although we were not rid of hard-
ships and vexations, consequent upon the
moving of a great camp, and the intense heat
of the weather, we certainly had little cause
for complaint compared with what we had ex-
perienced previously, and the rest of our jour-
ney was made with comparative ease.
	The whooping cough, which had so sorely
afflicted my mother's babe, Brigham Willard,
previous to starting from Nauvoo, grew lighter
from the time we commenced camping out at
Sugar Creek, and Mother Whitney's babe,
Mary, which had been sick unto death, im-
proved rapidly from that date. There were

[Column 2]

others, and even some of the most feeble and
delicate women, that grew stronger for a time,
until after the hot weather set in. Some of
the strongest, who were more exposed, became
prostrated with fever and ague, etc., before
arriving at Chariton River, where we stopped
a time for the weather to settle. My mother's
little one had commenced to run down with
teething, etc., and her own health, which was
never good, failed to that degree that Mary
Ann Shefflin, one of father's wives, who had
lived with her in Nauvoo, being anxious to re-
lieve her, took the child, and she loved and
cared for him as tenderly as though he had
been her own, till after we arrived at the end
of our journey.
	Lately, in looking over some old papers, I
found a letter of exhortation and counsel to
father's family, written by my husband, at his
dictation, as he was about leaving Cutler's
Park to go with President Young to attend to
some business over the river. It is dated
August 22nd, 1846, my 18th birthday, and
had been preserved among father's papers. The
words being as appropriate to day as then, I
reproduce a portion for the benefit of those
who regarded him in the light of a friend and
wise counselor.
	"I wish to give a few words of counsel to
my family and to all that belong thereto—both
male and female, old and young, and what I
say unto one I say unto all, and shall expect
it to be heeded in the full sense of the word.
	Of late there has been a great deal of care-
lessness, imprudence and slothfulness with
many of the members of my family as regards
to taking care of themselves—going without
suitable clothing and stockings in cold, chilly
weather, sitting out of doors under the bower
after dark, when it is cold, wet weather, expos-
ing themselves to sickness and death, which we
have suffered much of. These things have
caused me much sorrow and regret, and have
caused my family much toil and hardship and
fatigue, which has been brought upon us by a
total neglect of counsel, which would have
saved us these things.	*	*	*	*
I am now about leaving you for a short time,
and I improve this opportunity to address you
in this manner. I love my family, and I have
never faltered for the first time in seeking their
welfare, to provide everything that lay in my
power for their happiness, and still intend to,
inasmuch as my counsel can be respected. Now,
my feelings are this: That all domestic affairs,
as far as women are concerned, are out of the
way 'while it is called day,' for when the night
cometh no man can work, for the Lord says,
in a certain revelation, 'Retire to thy bed
early, that thy body may be invigorated, that
thy days may be many.'
	"Now, I shall require these things at your
hands, except circumstances shall otherwise
direct. Cease from vanity, seek humility and
meekness, bow before the Lord in the morning
and at eve, and in so doing your days may be
many, peace and tranquility shall soothe your
bosoms, health and happiness shall dwell in
thy wagons, tents, wigwams and cottages,
while these things are observed. Cease from
murmuring or complaining, finding fault with
your friends or with each other, but manifest
to all men and women, by your works, and the
closeness of your tongues, and the integrity of
your hearts, that you are right, and that God
is with us of a truth. I always do, and shall
expect that those which constitute my house,
will remember me before the Lord, that I may
have wisdom, health, patience and endurance
to endure all things, that I may always give
suitable counsel to my family, even that that
shall proceed from the Holy Ghost, for I never
wish to counsel by any other spirit.
	I now feel to bless you all in the name of
the Lord God of Israel, with peace, prosperity
and salvation, that we all may be pure in

[Column 3]

heart. These are the words and blessings I
feel to communicate and leave with my dear
family.
	As ever, I remain, your most affectionate
husband, father and friend in the new and ever-
lasting covenant. Amen."
	HEBER C. KIMBALL.


REQUISITE FOR GOOD HOUSE-
KEEPING.

	A great deal is said now-a-days in favor of 
good housekeeping. Much of it is well said.
But one essential to good housekeeping is never
mentioned. It is never said that the "wives of
well-to-do men should not be made paupers."
Yet this is really the word that most needs to
be said.
	The great majority of wives who devote
themselves to their families are as destitute of
money as the poorest pauper. This is not al-
ways so because the husband is niggardly.
More often, perhaps, it is from thoughtlessness.
For instance, one wife, before her first child
was born, was offered no money for its little
wardrobe. She could not ask for any. She
cut up her own fine garments to make a supply.
She did the same for the second. Before the
birth of the third child, she said to her hus-
band, "I have no money. I have cut up all
my clothes that were suitable, for the other
children. How am I to dress this one?" The
surprised husband said: "Why did you not
tell me you needed money?" It had never
occurred to him to offer any. He was a farmer,
whose wife, without help, cooked for the family
and for the hired men. She made butter and
cheese, and did the family sewing. All her
time was consumed in her housework and the
care of her children. Before her marriage
she had a remunerative business. She had the
means of gratifying her tastes, her wishes and
her feelings. How it must have taken out of
her, courage and heart, to find toil, day after
day, neither lightened nor brightened by the
hope of even small means with which to do
as she pleased! This man and woman repre-
sent a large class.
	But, whatever the class, the custom prevails
of leaving the wife without money, and this is
as common among the rich and well-to-do as
anywhere.
	Now, it is easy to see that a pauperized wife
is not in the best position for good home-mak-
ing or good housekeeping, to say nothing of
anything else. The first and last word of
those who really desire to improve the home
should be one to improve the condition of the
home-maker, in the special direction of reliev-
ing her from a penniless state. Much has
been said and written in favor of good house-
keeping. Now let us hear something of the
way to help wives to such a share of the family
income, be it little or much, as shall save them
from the sense of being either beggars or pau-
pers. This is one essential requisite to secure
good housekeeping.	L. S.


"Lady Tennyson is in a state of ill health
that causes her friends great anxiety."
	Mrs. Helen Jackson left several unpublished
manuscripts. Her last work was a story of
humble life in the West, entitled "Zeph." It
was finished during her fatal illness, and is
now, with other manuscripts, in the hands of
her publishers, Messrs. Roberts Brothers. A
new edition of the "Century of Dishonor,"
carefully revised, and with additional matter
is soon to be published by Roberts Brothers.
Mrs. Jackson's latest poem, "A Rose Leaf,"
will be published, with illustrations, in Outing
for October. Of this poem, Mrs. Jackson
wrote to the editor that she actually dreamed
it, and awoke with it on her lips.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESPONSE.

[TO ONE WHO WROTE IN THE EXPONENT "FAREWELL
TO LOVE.]

Love on!
	Love on! let none freeze up the heart,
	For love will ever youth and life impart;
	A precious gift, our Father gave to man,
	To aid him, God's eternal truth to scan.

Love on!
	Love on! when in the prime of youth
	Our spirit clings to beauty and to truth;
	Nor dream a foe may lurk in smiling guise,
	And drive the beauteous phantom from our eyes.

Love on!
	Love on! in life's maturer age,
	When time, with iron pen fills up the page,
	O'er which we sigh and often drop the tear,
	As scenes are shifting by us year by year.

Love on!
	Love on! in life's declining age
	The youthful and mature become the sage;
	Three score and ten may number out our day,
	But still love on until we pass away.

		Love on! Love on!
			HANNAH T. KING.

Salt Lake City, Sep. 26th, 1885.


ALL WILL BE WELL.

BY ELLA WHEELER WHEELER WILCOX,

All will be well. I heard this blest assurance
	Flung o'er the borders of the unseen spheres,
It gave me faith and courage and endurance
	To walk serenely on and meet the years.
Like the sweet voice of some consoling spirit,
	Down through the silence of the night it fell.
My soul's fine ear was rightly tuned to hear it:
		"All will be well,"

All will be weli. Why should we ever doubt it?
	There were no blunders in creation's plan.
When God's vast mind conceived, and went about it,
	He was not aided or controlled by man.
The stars that move in such immortal beauty
	Through their appointed pathways seem to tell 
Our questioning souls, if we but do our duty,
		"All will be well,"

All will be well. Let not our hearts be troubled
	By passing clouds or shadows that may fall,
We must press bravely on with faith redoubled;
	The glorious end will justify it all.
I will believe that voice from heaven's portal
	Clear as the utterance of a silver bell—
It spoke to me a truth that is immortal:
		"All will be well,"—Advance.


[Column 1]

"MORMON" CREED.

"MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS."

	Yes, Mr. Hendricks spoke as follows: "Fel-
low citizens!" We, the Latter-day Saints,
away out in Utah, are fellow citizens, and
claim every right pertaining thereto. Our
rights are assailed and we are meddled with by
United States officials, who are sent here to
mind our affairs, when we know how to govern
them ourselves much better, and have not cost
Government half so much as uninterested
officials, sent here to feather their own nests
and deprive the people of every vestige of
right guaranteed to American citizens. We
recognize the right and power of the general
government, but when it affects you and me
and the people of Utah, then it is that Utah
makes her own laws and votes in her own
officers by the voice of her own subjects, born
on her own soil, or are permanent residents;
those who are honorable, self-sustaining men,
who have built up Utah, by cultivating the
soil, who have taken an interest for the people,
made good and wholesome laws for the estab-

[Column 2]

lishment of virtue, peace and good, moral con-
duct, and order and thrift of her people.
	We claim the right to make our own laws,
simply because we can regulate our own affairs
better than any one else can regulate them for
us; and so we, on our own soil, for that simple
reason, must be legislatures for Utah. "That
was the great argument first asserted in this
country. One hundred years has established
the fact that self-government, with respect to
local affiars, is the true system of government
in this world."
	No trouble can arise but what our own legis-
lators can regulate, in all matters of home
affairs. So, we must have local self-govern-
ment. What citizen, among any other people,
of a free mind, would like to be dragged from
a home fireside into a distant state and be im-
mured in a prison for months, to await what?
An inquisition. In our boasted land of liberty
—"America—not Ireland,not England,no; but
the home of the brave and the land of the
free." You may hunt the wide world over, and
I defy any one to find better men and women
than have been taken from their homes and
friends, deprived of their usefulness in the
public good, and their wives and children de-
prived of their support, to gratify lawless in-
truders, forced on a happy and thriving com-
munity to fill the idler's coffers out of the
hard earned real estates of its own native born
citizens. Is not America indebted to the
Latter-day Saints for Utah's resources? Was
it not settled up by them under the most try-
ing circumstances? We need not go to Irish
history to find a persecuted people. No, not
beyond our own country's limits. Here has
been enacted the most unjust and stringent
measures against an innocent and unoffending
people. In plain contradiction to our coun-
try's laws and Constitution, which gives liberty
of religious belief and conscience, can an ac-
tive mind be eternally ladened with supersti-
tious fogyism? Why is it that America's
rulers are so far seeing as to sympathize with
Ireland and sending men away out to Utah
with a legislator's lash to thrash her own sub-
jects? "Well," say they, "Utah is a Territory,
and they have no rights in common with us."
Indiana is a state. Yes, and cannot Utah be-
come one? Are not her numbers sufficient? Are
fifteen thousand people not to be trusted with
the reins of government? Who, in Indiana,
would trust to any other state in legislation for
her schools, in the building up of her indus-
tries? So according to the majority in Utah.
When persecution ceases with us to exist, not
only the agricultural classes, but the the me-
chanics, the people of the cities and towns
must live, and Utah becomes clothed with the
right and power of self-government, these
matters will be cared for. That is a doctrine
so plainly expressed and so powerful in its ap-
plication to human interests, that it will never
stop; it will go on.
	For many years it has not been a contro-
verted question that the Latter-day Saints
have been dealt hardly by. It is widely known
that they have not had fair play. How is it
that American citizens were driven by a law-
less mob into these wild, unknown regions,
uninhabited by the white race? Thought unfer-
tile and barren—made by this people to blos-
som as the rose, redeemed by them from its
sterile condition by hard industry in the midst
of poverty, being deprived of their mother
land, the homes of their birth, and thrust out
beyond their land of freedom into a desert
waste. Have the Irish people been served
thus? No; they could stay at home, but we
could not. Missiles of war were used—pointed
at men, women and children, and they were
driven over the Mississippi River in the month
of February, to freeze and starve.
	And now our good, kind followers say,
'Give yourselves up; oh, do! that we may

[Column 3]

have no further trouble on your account, and
our deputy marshals can be paid and so can
we, and live on your exit." No, never! we are
not all fools.
	"Let us come back to the great question
which lies at the foundation of government,
the question of the rights of the people to
make their own laws, and that no other power
has a right to make laws for them. You re-
member, in the Declaration of Independence,
we asserted the right of men to govern them-
selves. That is the great fundamental idea of
America, and is now the one being applied, to
which we give our sympathy and support,
The right of man to govern himself and to
abolish laws that are inimical to his welfare is
the principle that was asserted at Bunker Hill,
and in glorious triumph it was proclaimed at
Yorktown." (Great applause.)
		MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sep. 17th, 1885.


IT DON'T PAY.

	It don't pay to have one citizen in the coun-
ty jail because another citizen sells him
liquor.
	It don't pay to have one citizen in the luna-
tic asylum because another citizen sold him
liquor.
	It don't pay to have fifty workmen ragged,
to have one saloon keeper dressed in broad-
cloth and flush with money.
	It don't pay to have ten smart, active, intelli-
gent boys transformed into thieves to enable
one man to lead an easy life by selling them
liquor.
	It don't pay to give one man, for $15 a
quarter, license to sell liquor, and then spend
$5,000 on a trial on another man for buying
that liquor and committing murder under its
influences.—Christian Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Marietta M. Bones is deputy clerk of
the district court of Webster, Dakota."
	"Kate Greenaway will offer the holiday sea-
son a new book, called 'The Marigold Gar-
den.'"
	"Miss Cleveland is a successful author. Her
book has already run through ten editions, and
has been translated into several languages."
	"Lady Dufferin has formed in India a Na-
tional Association for supplying 'female medi-
cal aid,' i.e., women doctors to attend the
wives of the natives in sickness."
	"Mlle. Sinay has been awarded by the jury
of the Paris Conservatoire a first prize for
violin-playing; Mlles. Gauthier, Dautin, and
Boutin a premier accessit, and Mlle. Magnier a
second accessit."
	"Mrs. Kingsley Harrison, a daughter of
Charles Kingsley, is the author of the novels
'Mrs. Lorimer' and 'Colonel Enderby's Wife,'
under the pen-name Lucas Malet. For a long
time her first book was supposed to be the
work of a man."
	Without a doubt, the mother's superior or
inferior intelligence is the most deeply im-
printed upon the child.—Horatio Yates, M. D.,
Professor Queen's University.
	"Colonel Higginson's 'History of the United
States,' most of which has appeared in Harp-
er's Magazine, is soon to be printed in book
form."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 1, 1885.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	It seems absolutely certain that important mat-
ters relating to this people are culminating to such
a degree as to indicate, at a very early period, a
solution of the knotty problem which is puzzling
the American people, and raising such a furore
among ministers and sectarians more especially.
Such a persecution as is furnished by the present
prosecution cannot last long in a country where
there is a semblance of freedom. There is, and
must be, somewhere, an element of religious
liberty diametrically opposed to the terrible op-
pression brought to bear upon the Latter-day
Saints at the present time. It must exist, even if
it be in the inner depths of the souls of the "Mor-
mon" people,and cause them to exclaim, "Give me
liberty, or give me death!"
	We are certainly, as a people, nearing a telling
crisis in the history of the Church, and whether
all will be able to stand it is a vital question. Ac-
cording, to the prophecies of our leading men in
these last days, Heber C. Kimball and others,
each person will be brought to a test, severe and
individual, that will prove the integrity of his
soul and the purpose of his heart.
	None of us know our own capacity for endur-
ance until we have been tested in the crucible that
refines and purifies even the most sincere and
zealous, and then they must be weighed in the
balance that determines the true valuation of a
Saint of God. How many can stand firm through
this severe ordeal remains to be proven, but one
who wishes to obtain the coveted blessing must
indeed be "meek and lowly," that he may retain
the Holy spirit that will lead him into all truth.
"It must needs be that offences come," said our
Savior, "but woe be to him by whom they come."
Evidently the judges and jurors and the district
attorneys do not comprehend the full meaning of
these words. If they realized and sensed the
position in which this crusade puts them, they
could not consent to the great responsibities being
placed upon them, and that they are daily assum-
ing most willingly. They evidently imagine, as
did the persecutors of old, that they are doing God
service, and thus acquit their own consciences
and proclaim themselves, before all the world
as civilizers and regenerators. Meantime, what are
the facts, and what is the exact status of those
who are driving some of the Latter-day Saints to
the extreme measures they are compelled to take
in o rder to answer the end of the Edmunds law,
which the Congress of the United States has
made valid and the Supreme Court of Washing-
ton has declared constitutional?
	There are many who do not accept, as correct,
this construction of the law of our common coun-
try, but are obliged to submit to the penalty in-
flicted and the precedent established by the
courts, or become exiles from home, country and
friends.
	The recent trials, under the Edmunds law, be-
fore the courts here, have given certain men a
good opportunity to show their manhood and to

[Column 2]

prove their integrity to the sacred and holy princi-
ples they had espoused, and upon the foundation
of which the most solemn, eternal covenants had
been entered into. Day after day these trials for
unlawful cohabitation are published in full, and
one may have the opportunity of reading and di-
gesting the matter. Still it is difficult to pass
judgment, except one is in possession of the Holy
Spirit that leads into all truth. It is a time for
each one to examine himself and seek to bring in-
to subjection to the will of God his own selfish-
ness, and to so deport himself that respect will be
paid to his example as well as precepts, and those
who are weak may thus be strengthened in the
path of duty and of honor. Every one who stands
true to his convictions, whatever worldly sacrifice
he may be called upon to make, not only does
 honor to the cause, but helps others who may,per-
chance, need some strong pilot to show them how
to save their less steady bark from being wrecked
or broken to pieces on the sharp rocks that often
abound in shallow waters, that deceive those not
accustomed to the dangers and storms and raging
waves of commotion that toss one hither and
thither among the breakers. At such times it is
always a hopeful sign to see one or more keep
right side up and withstand the fury of the gale;
it gives courage to those whose faith might other-
wise have failed. When one sees a companion in
deep water, struggling against the current that
would fain bear him down, rise with an almost
superhuman effort, he feels, he too, could have
power to do the same, whereas he might not have
had the heroism had he not been shown so illus-
trious an example.
	We all, as fellow beings, depend largely upon
each other, but there are few people who are will-
ing, from choice, to risk the first chances of an
extreme measure, that they may be a light and a
strength to those who follow; but these always
do good, if they have the true, genuine mettle in
them, forming brilliant examples, and opening the
way for those who come after them, proving them-
selves fearless to stand and suffer in defense of
truth and right, however unpopular the cause.
	The pioneers in any great cause or discovery of
truth have almost without exception been perse-
cuted, or regarded as lunatics, while, after genera-
tions having realized the benefits of their labors
or discoveries, have held them in the highest es-
teem and reverence, as martyrs to truth and princi-
ple, and benefactors of the human family. Men
have suffered much in the interest of science, as
well as religion, and it would seem rather a scath-
ing aspersion upon the Latter-day Saints if they
are not valiant enough to endure as much for the
Gospel's sake as the Saints of former days and
periods of time. But in order to endure persecu-
tion one's religion must be deeply rooted in the
heart and soul; it must be the guiding star of one's
life, something before which all other considera-
tions vanish away, and for which one would sacri-
fice all else on earth. The Savior said, "He that
loveth father or mother more than me, is not
worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter
more than me, is not worthy of me." And again
He says, "And every one that hath forsaken
houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother,
or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake,
shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit
everlasting life."
	To all who read the Scriptures, and who believe
in the divine inspiration of the words therein con-
tained, there is an abundance of proof that these
are the days referred to by our Savior previous to
His second coming. In the 21st chapter of Luke,
Jesus, in speaking of the time drawing near, after
speaking of wars and contentions and earthquakes
and famines and pestilences and sights and signs,
etc., etc., says, beginning at the 12th verse, "But
before all these they shall lay their hands on you
and persecute you, delivering you up to the syna-
gogues and into prisons, being brought before

[Column 3]

kings and rulers for my name's sake. And it shall
turn to you for a testimony. Settle it, therefore,
in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye
shall answer, for I will give you a mouth and
wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not gain-
say nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by
parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends,
and some of you shall they cause to be put to
death."
	A part of this Scripture is most assuredly being
verified at the present time, in the courts of the
Territory, and no doubt all will be fulfilled accord-
ing as it has been declared by ancient and modern
prophets.
	The scenes that are now transpiring are fraught
with the greatest significance to the Latter-day
Saints, and yet there are many who do not seem
to realize the momentous results that must neces-
sarily follow such remarkable events. It is most
certainly a time for serious thought and reflection
and humility before the Lord, and no one can
trust to his own strength, but in all humility look
to the Lord for divine aid and assistance; it be-
hooves every Latter-day Saint by a virtuous life
and conversation to seek to attain unto the bless-
ings promised to the faithful, fulfilling every duty
and obligation, in so far as it is made known by
the spirit of the Gospel that leads into all truth.
It is a time for that entire consecration and devo-
tion to the kingdom of God that will admit of no
neglect, but will require one’s time, talents and
labors exclusive of all other interests. The
Scripture commands us, "Seek ye first the king-
dom of God and His righteousness and all other
things shall be added unto you." But how few
have obeyed this in the spirit in which it was
given. This is verily a time of trial, a time to
prove and test the integrity of men's hearts, and
though the Saints may be called upon to pass
through the deep waters of affliction, there is a
power equal to the emergency, and the promises of
God to those who serve Him and abide in the
faith are sure and steadfast, and the covenant He
has made with His chosen people cannot be
broken. He has commanded His people to obey
the law of celestial marriage,and He will maintain
His word though all the forces of earth and all
the powers of darkness combine against the es-
tablishment of that eternal principle of marriage.
There is much more involved in it than the casual
observer can comprehend, and the purposes of
God cannot be overthrown simply because a body
of men have decided, in grand council assembled,
that the law of the Lord is null and void, and the
law of the land supreme. Far from it! And
hough it may cost the lives of some of the Saints
of God, what He has decreed He will perform,
and His cause will triumph, and those who have
been obedient and kept the commandments He
has given, and have not departed from the law
laid down for the guidance of His people, will re-
joice and be made partakers of the glory and do-
minion promised to the faithful. That this may
be the happy lot of many now passing through the
most severe ordeals, is our earnest prayer.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In this issue of the paper there is an excellent
article on the silk industry,and we trust our sisters
will read and digest it thoroughly. It is a subject
that has engrossed much attention in times past,
and almost untiring efforts have been made by in-
dividuals here and there, and also by societies, to
accomplish some permanent good in this direction.
We have been told by Brigham Young and others
that there is every facility here for making a good
quality of silk. There have been many discourage-
ments and disappointments in the growth and pro-
gress of this enterprise, and yet some good silk
has been made under the most severe difficulties.
There seems now to be an opening by which those
who have cocoons on hand can dispose of them


[Column 1]

﻿to some advantage, and if this is the case, the
people will soon be encouraged in raising cocoons
for the home market. The white silk handker-
chiefs manufactured by Bro. Chalmers, at the Silk
Factory, are very handsome. In each corner 
the pattern of the Salt Lake Temple is woven,
which makes the article still more attractive.
	ON Monday evening, September 28th, a dis-
tinguished party of visitors arrived in this city, on
a short visit, and were the guests of Mrs. Luella
Young. The party consisted of the Hon. James
W. Barclay, M.P., and his accomplished wife,
and Mr. Frank D. Finley, who has for years been 
associated with the London press. Mr. Barclay
is the author of the able article on the "Mormon"
question published in the nineteenth century,
and afterwards put in pamphlet form and widely
circulated among this people, and in other parts
of the world. We had an opportunity of meeting
with the party and conversing with them, and the
pleasure of a trip to the Lake, with quite a party
of ladies and gentlemen, who lunched on board
the General Garfield. On Tuesday evening a few
ladies and gentlemen spent the evening at Mrs.
Young's. The time was occupied in interesting
conversation on the topics of the day, and Mrs.
Barclay, who is a very talented singer and musi-
cian gave us some exquisite Italian music. Miss
Louie Wells and Mr. B. S. Young and Mr. C.
W. Stayner added to the mnsical part of the en-
tertainment of the evening. Some delicious re-
freshments were elegantly served,and the evening
passed off most agreeably.
	THE Primary fair, of the several associations of
Salt Lake County, was held in the Social Hall in
this city the 17th, 18th and 19th of September,
under the supervision of Prest. Ellen C. Clawson
and her Counselors, Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann
Wells. There was a good showing of the child-
dren's work, and the products of their labors in
the way of vegetables, fruits, butter, and other
articles of this kind, all of good quality. There
seemed to be a great improvement in the quality
of work since the first Fair, and a greater variety
of useful articles. The receipts from the Fair
counted up to nearly a hundred dollars, though
the price of admission was a mere trifle. After
all expenses were paid there was remaining over
$87.50, and the little people were consulted as to
what should be done with the money. All seemed
to think they would like to make a donation to the
Temple, and, accordingly, $50 was reserved for
the Manti Temple, and $37.50 for the Deseret
Hospital. Prest. Clawson and her Counselors
must feel exceedingly gratified with the success of
the enterprise, as well as all those little people
whose labor and means contributed to the success-
ful affair.
	ON Friday, September 15th, we had the pleasure
of accompanying Apostle F. D. Richards and his
wife to North Ogden to attend a meeting of the
Young Ladies' Association at that place. Dr. R.
B. Pratt was also one of the party from this city,
and in Ogden we were joined by Mrs. Hattie
Brown, Counselor to Mrs. Jane S. Richards in the
Relief Society of Weber Stake, and Mrs. Mattie
Cannon and Mrs. Lettie Richards, which made up
a very pleasant party. Arriving at the new meet-
ing house, we were warmly welcomed by the
Bishop and others. The house was well filled,
quite a large number of the congregation being
young girls. Mrs. Ellen Waldrun presided with
ease and dignity over the meeting. After the
usual exercises and reading of minutes, remarks
were made by the President, and the Secretary
read an address which had been prepared for the
occasion in honor of Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who
had, until recently, presided over the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Weber Stake. The address was well
written and contained many expressions of love,
respect and confidence, and was very complimen-
tary indeed of the labors of their former presi-

[Column 2]

dent. After reading the article an elegant photo-
graph album was shown, which was a gift from
the Association to Mrs. E. S. Richards. It con-
tained the pictures of the Bishop and his wife, the
officers of the Association, and some of the mem-
bers. The next part of the programme was a
presentation to the young President, Mrs. Wal-
drun, of an enlarged, handsomely framed photo-
graph of her husband, who is now an a mission to
Germany, accompanied with a very neat
written speech, which was well read by the Secre-
tary, and both these marks of appreciation seemed
to meet with the utmost favor from all the assem-
bly. Apostle Richards made congratulatory
rmarks to the young people,and dwelt specially up-
on the importance of true marriage,and the sacred-
ness of the covenants entered into in such marriage,
and the obligatons it places upon men and women.
He also expressed his appreciation of the honor
conferred upon his daughter-in-law, Mrs. E. S.
Richards, in the beautiful gift bestowed, and the
accompanying written tribute. Mrs. Jane S.
Richards also expressed her good feelings and
kindly sentiments toward the young people, and
made many excellent suggestions to the sisters as-
sembled. Brief addresses were delivered by the
sisters from the city upon education, refinement,
literary progress, etc., and Dr. Pratt gave some
valuable information on the subject of health, and
how to preserve it. Sisters Hattie Brown and
Mattie Cannon each expressed their feelings, and
exhorted the young to persevere. The Bishop
spoke a short time, expressing his interest in the
young people, etc., and Mrs. Waldrun made some
closing remarks, and alluded to the surprise the
young ladies had arranged in giving her the pic-
ture; was very much gratified, and hoped always
to retain their affection. After the meeting was
dismissed, the invited guests, officers of the Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. and some of the
members,about fifty,in all,repaired to the Bishop's
and partook of a sumptuous dinner, which had
been prepared for the occasion. In the evening
the young people of the ward were to have a
party in the school house. Altogether the day
was a most enjoyable one, and we returned home
well pleased with the visit to North Ogden. The
young ladies seemed to be making good progress
in the right direction, and to enjoy a goodly por-
tion of the Spirit of the Lord.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿OUR SILK INDUSTRY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In April of the present year we began reeling
silk from cocoons for the purpose of manufactur-
ing handkerchiefs and dress goods. Since then,
we have used about two hundred pounds of co-
coons, and have obtained nearly an average of
one pound of silk for every five pounds of cocoons.
only one lot, of twenty pounds, produced what is
considered a proper production, yielding six
pounds of silk from the twenty pounds of cocoons.
Some lots have yielded one pound from four
pounds, others have taken five pounds and some
six pounds to one pound of silk. This has been
in consequence of all the cocoons being old, and
partially destroyed by vermin.
	Understanding that nearly all the coooons in the
Territory were in this condition, we undertook the
task of reeling them, putting the price to be paid
for them at such a figure as would enable us to
meet the expense of working them up, and getting
them out of the way with as much profit to the
raisers as possible. We did not think, in the be-
ginning, that all would be satisfied with the results,
and we are not ourselves, for we have not been
able to obtain wages from the transaction, but in
doing so we have practically solved the problem
of taking the native material and putting it through
the various processes of reeling, spinning, scour-
ing and manufacturing into goods fit for the mar-

[Column 2]

ket, that we could do so on such a limited scale
profitably. We could not suppose but the opera-
tions have proven that, if the native material can
be supplied in sufficient quantities to keep in
operation all our looms, a very different and much
better condition of things could be shown. 	
	The price paid for the cocoons has not been
encouraging to the raisers, being three dollars for
every pound of silk realized from reeling. This
price was set on account of the condition of the
material to be operated on; and although we must
still hold to the principle of valuing the cocoons
according to their production, $3.50 may be safely
offered for the pound of reeled silk, realized from
newly raised cocoons; and a still further advance
may be reached for cocoons raised with special
care, and by experienced raisers. But this fact
must be proven by the reeling. In order that the
best results may be obtained, cocoons must be
reeled as early as possible after being harvested—
stifled and sufficiently dried to bear transporta
tion.
	A few ideas on the value of silk may not be out
of place here, and may serve to correct erroneous
impressions that some may have concerning it.
Raw Silk, which is silk in its first condition, when
taken from the cocoons is bought and sold sixteen
ounces to the pound. Hard silk, which is its se-
cond condition, having been spun and made into
thread, is still sixteen ounces to the pound. Soft
silk, which is its next condition in the course of
manufacture, is counted at twelve ounces to the
pound; the reason of this reduction is that, in the
progress of scouring, it has discharged twenty-five
per cent of foreign matter in gum, etc. Its value
increases rapidly as it passes through its various
processes of manufacture, until, when it has
reached the counter of the retailer, in many cases
it will be six or eight times its original value. An
approximate idea may here be got at of the amount
of cash capital which must go out of the communi-
ty to bring from the eastern market the quantity
of silk dress goods, handkerchiefs, ribbons, etc.,
which are consumed in our midst; and for every
pound of silk which we receive from the east,
not less than from $15 to $20 must go to bring it;
there is only the profits of the merchant remain
here. But, say some, "We can get them so much
cheaper from the east, and better finished than
they can be done here." This may be true so far
as we have gone; in some points only the reasons
are obvious. Our machinery is very limited in its
capacity; our help has been inexperienced; our
resources are all limited, and our expenses are as
high, in many cases, as though our production was
four times what it is. These things can easily be
removed, and as we have a climate and country
equal to any for silk culture. If we are only true
to our own interests, and determine to be self-sus-
taining, as we profess and ought to be, in two
years from now our merchants may become ex-
porters instead of importers of silk merchan-
dise.
	The above has been written at the request of
several friends of the Industry, and we cordially
invite all who are interested to come to the silk
factory and see our operations for themselves.
		JAMES L. CHALMERS.


THE WORD OF WISDOM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The word of wisdom, which has been given by
the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith to
His Saints in this dispensation, is full of correct
information upon those things which are condu-
cive to health and of promised blessings to those
who observe and keep it according to the spirit
and meaning thereof. Among other things in it
He has said, "And again, strong drinks are not
for the belly, but for the washing of your 
bodies."
	The Lord considered this all that was necessary


to say upon this subject. It would be sufficient if
the Saints would remember to take His word as it
is given, and act upon it. I find but few who ob-
serve this portion of the word of wisdom, although
many may strictly keep other parts of it, and ex-
pect to receive the promised blessings comtained
therein. They, no doubt, frequently wash their
bodies all over with water, but the Lord does not
say that it is good to do so, but He has said in
another revelation, "Behold, the Lord in the be-
ginning, blessed the waters, but in the last days,
by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the
waters."
	It is a scientific fact, which is fully sustained by
experience, that there are properties in alcoholic
liquors which are invigorating to the skin, and
which will open the pores and leave them in a
healthy condition, enabling them to more readily
perform the functions of their offices, thereby im-
parting health and strength to the whole sys-
tem.
	My main object in writing upon this subject is
to call the attention of mothers and nurses to it,
who may have charge of infants from their birth
to childhood, and who generally wash them all
over once or twice a day, which greatly reduces
their vitality, and nearly washes the very life out
of them, at which time they are more injured than
in after years, urge upon them the importance
of giving heed to what the Lord has said, and use
"strong drinks" for the washing of their children.
For instance, about one part of good alcohol to
two parts of water, or any other liquors in proper
proportions, and wash them in it as often as it
may be necessary. Such children, in after years,
would feel to bless them for the health and strength
they would enjoy.
	A New England man, who lived to be quite old,
and who still retained the health and vigor of
manhood, when asked what he attributed his
longevity to, answered by saying, "I have fed the
outside of the body with brandy and the inside
with olive oil.',
	I will only say further, to one and all, especially
to mothers, "Take the word of the Lord as He
has given it, and act upon it without stopping to
consult any one about whether it is good or not,
and use that which He says is good, and the bless-
ings of God will be with you and your generations
after you."		S. F. A.
	Kamas, Summit Co., September 24, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

LOA, PIUTE CO.

	Anniversary of the Relief Society of the
Fremont Ward, of the Sevier Stake of Zion,
held June the 19th, 1885. Commenced at
10 a.m. Singing by the choir. Prayer by
John Ellet. Reports of last year read by the
secretary. Remarks by Bishop C. H. Black-
burn; An Address by Prest. Darton; Speech
by J. W. Young: "I think it is forty-two
years since I first saw Joseph Smith; he was
then talking to the Relief Society; it has been
kept up ever since, and the sisters should teach
the young the right way, and not to follow the
fashions of Babylon. There are not many so-
cieties that can meet to-day, as we do, in peace,
and none of their husbands or fathers in prison.
The sisters should be very thankful for this
privilege." a Song, by Minnie Morrell and
company; a Speech, by Mary Ellet, Remarks,
by V. L. Blackburn; Song, by C. M. Young
and daughter; Speech, by Sarah J. Morrell;
Speech, by Father Allen Taylor.
	The officers of the Society were then put
before the meeting and sustained. Singing by
the choir. Dismissed by John Ellet. We
had dinner at two o'clock, and had an enjoy-
able time together in the afternoon, and a
party at night. All having enjoyed them-
selves, we retired at twelve o'clock, well satis-

[Column 2]

fied. Alice Darton, President; Mary Ellet
and V. L. Blackburn, Counselors; Sarah J.
Blackburn, Secretary; Hannah Blackburn,
Assistant Secretary.
	Re-organization of the Loa, Fremont Relief
Society, September 3rd, 1885: Sister Margaret
Taylor, President; Nancy Blackburn and
Sarah J. Forseith, Counselors; Sarah J. Black-
burn, Secretary; Hannah Blackburn, Assistant
Secretary; Alice Darton, Treasurer.
		S. J. BLACKBURN, Secretary.

KOOSHAREM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society is in good running order; the
sisters are all willing and on hand to fill any
call, no matter what it may be, and a good
feeling prevails.
	We held our annual meeting September the
16th, 1885, in the cedar grove, Prest. Margaret
Anderson presiding. Singing, "O my Father."
Prayer offered by Prest A. K. Thurber, Sing-
ing, "Did you think to pray?" Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved; and also
the statistical and financial report. We had
the pleasure of having our Stake President,
Sister Elizabeth Bean, and her First Counselor,
Thirza Thurber, and also our Stake Secretary,
Sister Hunt, and our leading local brethren,
from whom we received much good instruction
in regard to our duties and privileges. The
bowery was well decorated with handiwork and
articles of home industry from the sisters.
	The afternoon was spent in singing, dancing,
etc. The day passed off pleasantly, and all
returned home feeling we had spent an enjoy-
able and instructive day.
	We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and
our working meetings once a month. The good
attendance shows the desire of the sisters to be
in doing what we can to help along the king-
dom of God; storing grain, by raising it, and
in other ways. Our Society owns a number of
sheep, the wool being worked up in cloth and
other articles.
	We are blessed with pretty good health, in
general. Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
leave us in peace, thus far, but we deeply sym-
pathize with our persecuted brethren and sis-
ters, and our prayers are ascending up to
heaven daily in their behalf. We feel that a
day will come when all will get their just re-
ward, and we desire to be firm in the faith to
the end, for we know that the Lord is on our
side, as long as we will keep His command-
ments. We remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARGARET ANDERSON, Prest.,
		ANNIE M. WRIGHT, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of this Stake was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
September 18th, 1885, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding. After the usual exercises, the roll
of presidents was called, and nineteen presi-
dents and two counselors responded. Minutes
of previous conference were read and accepted,
and twenty-nine written reports were read by
the secretary, and the Stake treasurer's re-
port.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters B. W.
Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W. Wilcox and Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and S. M. Kimball. The
counsel and instructions were general in
character, though calculated to define the di-
rect duties of those engaged in the work of the
Relief Society, and how they might magnify
the calling in which they were officiating. The
storing of grain, the library for the Temple,
and many other charitable objects were referred
to, and the sisters were advised to take active
steps to assist in these matters, and were
specially enjoined upon to take care of the
sick, and in no wise, or upon any account not

[Column 3]

to neglect the poor, and to do all in their
power to elevate those with whom they are as-
sociated, to help lift up and comfort, and to
seek for greater Union.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
'Wake, O wake, the world from sleeping," etc.
Benediction by Mrs. E. Howard.
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
etc., Sister Catherine Smith, of Draper, re-
ferred to the re-organization of the Relief So-
ciety at Draper, which had been rendered
necessary by the decease of the former Presi-
dent, Mrs. Harriet R. Burnham.
	Mrs. W. Olsen, Prest. of the Sandy R. S.,
represented the society over which she presided.
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant referred to her visit to
Soda Springs, and how faithful the sisters
were in the Society there, though they were
but few in number. Spoke eloquently upon
the principle of plural marriage, and alluded
to the present trials of this people. Thought
the darkest hour had not come yet, etc.
	Mrs. R. C. Atwood made a few edifying
remarks; also Mrs. Diana Reid, Prest. of the
R. S. of the 16th Ward, and Mrs. E. B.
Fletcher, Prest. of the 8th Ward R. S. Each
of these sisters bore a strong testimony to the
truth, and exhorted all to diligence and faith-
fulness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occupied a short time.
Referred to her visit in the court room that
morning; felt we ought not to be cast down; we
should be full of hope, for we know the Lord
is on our side, and that the revelation given
upon plural marriage is from God, and we
must be true to that principle. Said, "This is
an age of progression and enlightenment, and
we must seek for wisdom and knowledge."
	Mrs. E. Howard made some excellent re-
marks upon the present condition of society,
and also upon the manner in which these offi-
cials, who interpret the law, change and twist
about the principles of government. Urged
the sisters to pray for those who had to be
brought before the courts, that they might be
inspired by the Spirit of God. Counseled
those who were foreign born to become natural-
ized citizens of the United States, that they
might have the privilege of voting at elections.
Said, "Let us pray for those who are in prison,
that they may be sustained and nourished; and
let us not encourage too much the pursuit of
pleasure and folly in our midst, but give the
young good counsel, and live so that the Lord
will make bare His arm for our deliverance."
	Prest. Horne made the closing speech, in
which she spoke of the sisters coming to their
conferences, of observing the Sabbath Day
holy in the household, and spoke strongly
against supporting our enemies and going after
the ways of the Gentiles. "The Lord wants
us to separate ourselves from the world, and
be a peculiar people. Let us be united and
work for the interest of the kingdom of God.
It is a time to be humble, that we may be able
to overcome and stand the test." Made some
remarks concerning Bro. Farnsworth's vision.
She said: "The time is not far distant when
there will be terrible groaning among the un-
godly and the enemies of this people; the rich
among us have the good things of this life,
and many are doing good, helping in various
ways to build up this work; the righteous poor
are doing the very best they can in helping to
build up the societies, and the Lord will pour
out His blessing upon them." Gave excellent
counsel to mothers in regard to watching over
their daughters, and in the care of children—
their training, and preserving their health.
Spoke of the condition of the nation, and the
account that must yet be given to the Almighty
for the shedding of the blood of Prophets and
Elders sent unto them with a message of salva-
tion. Closed by saying, "Let us pray humbly to
God that we may pass safely the evil day."
Conference adjourned to December. Singing.
Benediction by Prest. M. I. Horne.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REMINISCENCES OF THE Y. L.M.I.A.
CONFERENCE.

On the 19th of September I was privileged
to attend this conference in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, and it was a time of
refreshing to me, for I had not been feeling
well for some days, and felt inert, and in a
meditative mood, and it required some moral
courage to make the visit; but at two o’clock I
found myself seated in the room, and survey-
ing a goodly number of young girls, all looking
the personification of youth, which, in its self
is beauty.  They were all sweetly dressed, and
as I viewed the same, a panorama of the future
of those young people seemed to open before
me, and caused my heart to fill up with con-
tending emotions. They all unconscious of
their impending destiny, probably not giving
it a thought, though there might be some
minds drawn into a reflective mood—the fact
that they were there “in session” proved they
were living members, and in the present age of
apathy and indifference, among many of our
young people, that is saying much. The choir
was select, and the hymns impressively ren-
dered. I think it was the Eighth Ward
choir.	
	Sister Dougal presided in the unavoidable
absence of Sister Freeze, and she filled the
chair admirably. She is indeed her father’s
daughter, and resembles him in features and
physique, and of that she may be proud—far
more than if her brow was encircled by the
coronet of a countess.
	Her words to the young people were words
of rarest affection and wisdom.  I feel that
they did fall in good ground, and will bring
forth sweet fruit.
	Miss Colebrook spoke with touching earnest-
ness, giving some of her youthful experience,
and it was an epitome of the experience of a
young Latter-day Saint.
	Sister E. Taylor spoke, as she always does,
wisely and to the edification of her hearers. I
felt I would have loved to hear some of those
young voices adding their intellectual morccau
to the delightful spiritual treat. I shall live
on a hope that we shall yet be so gratified, for
it would certainly add very much to the in-
terest of the meeting, though all was good,and
a heavenly spirit prevailed the assembly. I
feel these Associations, with the Primaries, are
effecting much good. They are schools that
cultivate the minds of all who attend them—
both children and officers. I always feel that
I gain some instruction, or some information
when I attend one, and I pray that the youth
of both sexes will realize the importance of
enrolling themselves among so goodly a com-
pany, for the angels are there, and the smile
and approbation of our God is upon them.
	When I left the room, I felt well and strong,
and my spirit as elastic as any one in that as-
sembly. I imbibed the sweet influence—as the
magnet influences the needle. What more
testimony need we have than such healthful,
effects upon our systems? Oh! let us not only
sing that heavenly song, “Nearer, my God; to
Thee,” but actually try to live so that we may
indeed attain that life-giving proximity.
	HANNAH T. KING.
	September 22nd, 1885.


[Column 1]

A PLEASANT UNION.

	On Thursday, September 24th, the Relief
Society of the Eighth Ward in this city had a
pleasant re-union. Preparations were made
beforehand, by appointing committees to per-
fect the arrangements. Three, committee of
arrangements, three on reception, and eight on
vitation.
	The meeting was held in the Assembly
Rooms of the ward, commencing at 2 o'clock
p.m. Mrs. Esther B. Fletcher presiding

[Column 2]

Among those invited were the leading brethren
of the ward, and quite a number of sisters
from other parts of the city. After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. McMurrain; then
singing.
	Prest. Fletcher made a few opening remarks,
referring to the trouble and difficulties of the
present day; the need of faith and union.
	Sister Phebe W. Woodruff thought these
were trying times, but after a time these
troublee would disperse and leave us peaceful
and quiet, if we would only be firm and hold
on to the iron rod.
	Sister Elizabeth Howard said this was a sad
re-union, in consequence of the trials through
which we were passing; "but yet, these days
are glorious; the prophecies are being fulfilled,
and we know that whatever comes, we are sure
to conquer." Thought we should exercise our
faith, and offer up prayers for those who are in
bonds and in prison, and for all, that they may
stand firm to their integrity whatever may
come, etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the educational
advantages we enjoy through the organizations;
the strength it gives to our faith; of the pro-
gress which had been made by the faithful
sisters; of the bountiful harvest, and the great
plenty the Saints enjoyed; of the exit from Nau-
voo, and the experiences of Winter Quarters,
etc.
	Sister E. S. Taylor alluded, in her remarks,
to the trials the sisters had gone through, and
the noble sacrifices they had willingly made
for principle, and spoke of the women of Zion
as the very best upon the face of the earth.
Spoke of the trials the brethren are now called
to pass through, and the opportunity of test-
ing their integrity.
	Sister B. W. Smith said it seemed very hard
for our brethren to have to go to prison, "but
it is not so bad as it was in times past, when
they had to leave their families destitute. Re-
ferred to incidents of her own experience in
the early days of the church; the times of
mobbings in Missouri, and contrasted it with
our condition now, etc.
	Sister M. I. Horne spoke of punctuality,
and of humility,and keeping the Sabbath Day
holy. Said the Lord always warned the peo-
ple,through His servants, of any judgments
that were coming upon them, and illustrated
her remarks by Scriptural quotations, and the
relating of instances when God had made
special announcements, and had given the peo-
ple an opportunity of escape by listening to
the voice of His servants. Exhorted the sis-
ters to faithfulness and diligence in prayer and
good works.
	Coun. McMurrain occupied a short time;
spoke of the crusade and its object, and ex-
pressed his good feelings toward the Relief So-
ciety, and his determination to prove true to
his integrity in keeping the commandments of
God. Referred to Prest. Heber C. Kimball's
saying we would all have trials enough, as
many as we are able to stand. Felt that he
had not had many as yet, but hoped to have
faith and courage when most needed and "hold
on to the iron rod," and all would be well.
Said many other good things.
	Bro. A. Smith hoped he would be able to
stand firm and faithful whatever he might be
called upon to endure; rejoiced in the Gospel,
and in the association of the noble men and
women who were laboring in the interests of
the kingdom of God. Thought the Lord was
determined to have a tried and proven people.
His remarks, throughout, were very interest-
ing.
	Coun. Brockbank realized this was an im-
portant time in which we were living. "Many
families are being tried; the Lord has said he
is displeased with none who are willing to be
tried for His sake and acknowledge His hand."
Felt in sympathy with the Saints of God, etc.

[Column 3]

	Coun. Jane Cowan expressed herself as grati-
fied with all that had been said, and thanked
all those who had assisted towards preparing
and arranging for the re-union, as also the
brethren and sisters,who were the invited guests,
for responding to the invitation, and those
who had spoken for their good counsel and
words of comfort and encouragement.
	Elder Royal B. Young said, among many
other good things, that he hoped to remain on
the deck of the good old ship Zion whatever
storms might arise. Thought there were a
great many things worse than dying for our
religion. Prayed that God would increase our
faith and firmness, and if we were united all
would be well, and we would be able to con-
quer, for the promises of the Lord could not
fail.
	Bro. John Conelly made some very interest-
ing remarks. The choir sang, "Hark, listen
to the trumpeters," etc. Benediction by Elder
Royal Barney.
	After the close of the meeting, a sumptuous
repast was partaken of, tables having been set
in the hall, and beautifully ornamented with
flowers of the choicest varieties—the gift of
Bro. Samuel Teasdel. After supper there was
music and songs by the young ladies, and, we
must not forget to mention the charming young
girls in white aprons, who waited upon the
tables with such grace and dignity. All was
arranged in perfect order, and every one
seemed to realize that the spirit of the Lord
brooded over the assembly.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	Pittsburg, Pa., September 13th, 1885.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Dear Sister—It is with feelings of pleasure
that I write to you once, more. It always
affords me joy to commune with those who
have obeyed the Gospel in its fulness, and
have been partakers of that Holy Spirit which
flows on those who strive to live by its teach-
ings; those only can realize the same who are
in possession of the same, and when I address
a few lines to those who are in connection
with this Church, it seems to me like writing
home, for my heart and feelings are with them;
and when I read that worthy paper, the EX-
PONENT, and read the pieces therein from the
sisters, and the progress they are making, I
many times ask God to bless them. I feel re-
freshed and strengthened in reading those
noble communications contained there. I
have learned many ideas on the principles of
this Church from that source.
	With being so long absent from the Saints,
having no one to ask questions of, and some
principles which had not been explained to
me while associated with them, I am proud to
state I have had explanations of doctrine from
the sisters of this Church. I must in justice
make honorable mention of one to whom I
owe a debt of gratitude—Sister Helen Mar
Whitney. From her pen I received light and
instruction, which, for many years, was in
ignorance of, and for which I have been seek-
ing, and, on arriving at a knowledge of
what I had been seeking, I could not tell my
feelings; and when I read the reports of the
meetings, and the remarks made there, with
the prospects for the future, I do pray many
times for the privilege to be there and hear the
same. Many times, when alone, meditating on
your position at those happy seasons, I ask my-
self the question, “Will it ever be my happy
lot to mingle with the Saints of God once
more?” It almost seems a lifetime since I en-
joyed that happy privilege, but my heart is
with you, your feelings and hopes are mine, and
at different times, when meditating on this
work and its benign principles, when the paper
comes and I read, I find the same feelings and


words used that I had presented to me in
meditation. It makes me feel well to realize
there are some who have the same hope and
feelings I have.
  I am living my religion all I can.  I want
to do what my Father tells me to do; I want
to be one of His good sons.  I am very thank-
ful for his loving kindness to me of late.  I
want to come home, for I have something to
attend to as yet in the holy house of the Lord,
which was predicted on my head at confirma-
tion, and I shall come to see you in Zion the
first chance; I shall not wait for a second one.
My prayers are all the time for the faithful.
  I will here state that some time back I felt
in trouble for you.  My paper failed to come,
I wondered what was wrong.  I thought the
skull dragons were giving you some trouble.  I
prayed for God to help you and give you His
Holy Spirit to enable you to stand the trials,
if any had come to you, but I learned that you
were still going ahead, as usual, in your good
work; and may God bless the worthy sisters
who are laboring in this heavenly work, is my
humble prayer.	H. M. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PRIMARY FAIR.

   A Stake Primary Fair was held in Monroe,
Sevier Co., Utah, September 11th and 12th,
1885, commencing at nine o'clock a.m. Friday,
and closing at four o'clock p.m. Saturday. It
being harvest time, and the people being so
busy with labor, was mostly the cause of the
Fair not being a success. There were
several settlements no represented, hence
there was not as good a showing as we all antici-
pated and hoped for, yet great praise is due
those that were interested in preparing articles
for the Fair
 Among the most noticable articles were the
following:  Rugs, quilts, tidies, ornamental
baskets, a very nice cross, home made hats, a
home made carpet, zephyr flowers, some very
pretty dressed dolls and other fancy work; also
wagons, wheelbarrows, ladders, etc., some
vegetables, raised by the little boys, and some
cooking, done by the little girls, which was ex-
cellent.
  On Friday evening a free dance was extend-
ed by the citizens of Monroe, in behalf of the
visitors, which was very pleasant, and every
body present seemed to enjoy themselves.
  Great credit is due the committee, and those
that were interested in making the Fair a pleas-
ant one.
		A member of the Primary,
					NANCY NEBEKER.
   Richfield, Sep. 3rd, 1885.


TO A GENTILE LADY.

MRS. EMILY SCOTT, OF OHIO.

  Your sensible letter, in the EXPONENT of
August the 1st, was interesting to many beside
myself. I was well pleased with it, for I
thought you were a true Democrat and could
see no crime nor disgrace in plural marriage.
You say you think, sometimes, of going to the
Mormons and writing your lecture about the
Gentiles. I would be sure to go, and if you
are afraid of the persecution going on there
now, you can find some very good Mormons in
Alabama that would be glad to see you. Write
again for the EXPONENT, or address,
JOHN M. RUSSELL,
Alabama, August 14, 1885.


RE-ORGANIZATION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
  On the 26th inst., in company with Sisters
Sarah M. Kimball and Elizabeth Townsend, I


attended an annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I.
A. in Providence, and we had a very pleasant
and interesting time.
  Mrs. Lowe, a daughter of the late Seth M.
Blair, has faithfully and efficiently presided
over the Association ever since its organization,
but her many increasing cares and responsibili-
ties rendering it advisable, with the consent of
the Bishop of the ward, who was present, she
tendered her resignation, and Miss Emily
Theurer was chosen to fill the vacancy, with
Mary A. Marler and Emma Hammond as
Counselors.			     E. R. S. S.


"Mothers and teachers do not take much
pains to train their children and pupils into
good habits of enunciation. They are carefully
taught to sing, but they are not carefully
taught to read and speak; yet more than half
the charm of all social intercourse depends
upon the agreeable use of the voice."


IN MEMORIAM.

  DIED, at her residence, in the 18th Ward, in Salt Lake,
Sunday, September 13, at half past one o'clock, Mrs.
Mary Sloan, widow of the late E. L. Sloan, well known
here as an editor and journalist. Mrs. Sloan had been
ailing since last fall, yet, although so long afflicted, her
death was very sudden and unexpected. Deceased was
born in Crawfords-burn, County Down, Ireland, July
3rd, 1835. She was married to Edward L. Sloan when
seventeen years of age, and has been the mother of eleven
children. Eight of the number having gone before her to
join the innumerable hosts behind the vail, three are now
left to mourn the loss of one of the kindest and most in-
dulgent mothers that ever lived. Robert W., her eldest
son, is now on a mission to Ireland, where her aged
father is still living. Maggie, the only surviving daughter,
and Edward L., a younger son, are the two left at home,
and to them the loss is heavy indeed, as well as to the one
who is absent, but the Lord can and will comfort them, if
they go to him for consolation.
  Mrs. Sloan was one of those quiet, good-natured, un-
pretending women, who live in the hearts of their friends,
and are best known for their good and kindly deeds in
their own neighborhoods. She was generous and noble
in principle, affectionate and charitable in feeling, and was
always found doing good to those who stood in need of
sympathy or comfort--tender and delicate in her way of
ministering to those in need.
  The funeral services were held at the Eighteenth Ward
Chapel, Bishop O. F. Whitney conducting the services.
The speakers were her particular friends--Hon. John T.
Caine, Elder McGhee, the Bishop and Counselor Robert
Patrick, who all had words of praise, and spoke of her with
respect and affection. The singing by the ward choir was
ver good, especially when they rendered the sublime
hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee," etc. The benediction
was pronounced by Elder John Nicholson.
  It seemed to us quite appropriate, in connection with
this death, to publish the beautiful poem "At Rest,"
composed by her son since he left home, while walking in
one of those old graveyards in his mother's native land.


OBITUARY.

  It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the death of
Sister Mary Ann Brown Warr, of the First Ward of this
city, who departed this life on Sunday, August 30th, 1885,
in her forty-first year, and we recognize in the death of
our sister the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher,
and we deeply sympathize with the bereaved family in the
loss of an affectionate wife and mother, and faithful Latter-
day Saint.
Now she's gone, we'd not recall her
	   From a paradise of bliss,
Where no evil can befall her,
	   To a changing world like this.			 COM.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 206, SALT LAKE CITY. 
[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	Importers and Jobbers of
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S.  ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112,114,116,118 East Temple Street.
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
		AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
		CALL AND EXAMINE.
A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR MAGGIE C SHIPP
		WILL COMMENCE HER
Class in Midwifery, SEPT. 23, '85.
	Every advantage and attention will be given students
to secure their rapid advancement and proficiency in
their studies.
Tuition per Term, 	$10.00.
Books, 			13.00.
Office and Residence, 34  Seventh East Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

