LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
John The Beloved
Lesson 2
Helpful References. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 693, 694, 716-718, 720. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of John, and Peter and John. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 57-75. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 49-53. E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 260-284.
THE EPISTLES OF JOHN.?It is appropriate in our Theology lessons to become acquainted with the literature attributed to John and the trends of modern thought concerning it. In this lesson we shall, therefore, consider the Epistles of John and the Apocalypse, or Book of Revelation, in addition to other matters of importance.
The First Epistle of John contains five chapters while the other two contain but one short chapter each. Many of the best scholars of our day are willing to admit that these epistles are all written by the same author who was in turn the author of the Fourth Gospel. We shall therefore assume on the basis of what was said in the last lesson that they were written by the Apostle John.
The second and third letters contain little of doctrinal significance, and we may pass them by. The first letter is in the form of a written sermon which has little or no ordered plan. John's main purpose seems to have been to exhort and confirm the members of the early church in the faith. He expressly intimates that what he tells them is not new; his desire is to give them a firm assurance that the knowledge which they already have will save them. (See I John 2:7; 2:20 4:16; 5:13) As professor Scott says, "He does not lecture his readers, but talks to them, and to its artless, spontaneous character the charm of his letter is largely due. We feel as if he is engaged in meditation and allows us to overhear his thoughts as they arise in his mind."
Still there seem to be three main ideas around which his meditation revolves: (Scott)
(1) The test of ethical conduct. "And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him." (I John 2:3, 4)
(2) The test of belief. "Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: And every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God." (I John 4:2, 3)
(3) The test of brotherly love. "Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love." (I John 4:7, 8)
It would appear from the general tenor of the letter that a division had taken place in the Church. Certain members were attracted by heretical or "liberal" teachings, which appeared to offer them "deeper truth and a larger liberty than the traditional Gospel". Probably the remainder of saints, honest and straightforward folk, not pretending to much intellectuality, were puzzled and troubled by the division. John's letter reassures them and lays down the tests by which any sincere member of the church may test the validity of his faith. Most of the ideas in John's Gospel reappear in the Epistle, but in a more brief and general form.
SOME VIEWS CONCERNING THE BOOK OF REVELATION. ? The Book of Revelation was traditionally assumed to have been written by the Apostle John. Today, however, few scholars believe him to have been its author. Neither do they believe it refers to the distant future. "More important," says Dr. E. F. Scott, "has been the recognition, on the part of almost all scholars, that it was meant for its own time. The old assumption was that it had reference to a distant future, and endless attempts were made to apply its prophecies to the events and personages of later history, and to the coming destinies of the world. This was a strange error, since the writer himself declares more than once that he is dealing with his own age."
Most writers declare the Revelation to be of a type of apocalyptic literature very common in New Testament times. Note the following description by Scott: "Most of the Christian apocalypses were probably never committed to writing. By their nature they were ecstatic utterances, thrown out by 'prophets' when suddenly possessed by the Spirit. They would hardly be intelligible to those who spoke and heard them, and would be forgotten as soon as the momentary excitement was past. But there was one Christian apocalypse which was written down and preserved... From the book of Revelation, we learn something of what the mass of Christians in that age were thinking. It was written for the people, and reflects the beliefs and emotions of the plain men and women who must always make up the great majority of the Christian church."
That John never wrote the Revelation and that it has nothing to do with the future are views that should be scrutinized in the light of modern revelation. In the previous lesson it was pointed out that Nephi was told by a heavenly messenger that an apostle of the Lamb should "write concerning the end of the world" whose name was John (I Nephi 14:18-27). The book of Revelation we pointed out fits this statement better than any other we know. Then in the seventy-seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord reveals certain keys for understanding the book of Revelation. John is expressly referred to as "the Revelator". (See verse 2) A close reading of the revelation definitely shows that John did write concerning events that are still future. Modern critical interpretations of this book of Revelation at best can only be partly right, certainly not completely, in the light of what the Lord says. It is then the business of teachers of the Gospel not to perpetuate the errors made by uninspired men.
SOME TEACHINGS OF THE REVELATION OF JOHN.? In the first chapter of the Revelation the circumstances under which John received his mighty vision are recorded. He was on the Isle of Patmos, presumably in bondage to the Romans when he received the manifestation on the "Lord's day". He was told to write what he saw in a book and send it to "the seven churches; to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamos, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea." (Rev. 1:11) Doubtless they are what we should today call seven branches of the church. John was further instructed to write "the things which are about to take place after these". (Rev. 1:19) We can readily understand that some of John's writing dealt with contemporary matters, others with future events.
Chapters two and three contain instructions directed to the seven church branches. Each was reproved or blessed as conditions demanded. The interpretation of many important matters in chapters 4-11 are contained in D. & C. 77. The reader should also consult D. & C. 130:10 which helps us understand Rev. 2:17. Why the Prophet interpreted the Revelation to the eleventh chapter only we do not know. However, much of what follows, even though incompletely understood, manifestly pertains to the future viewed from John's day?yes, and even as viewed from our own time. Certainly Rev. 14:6, 7 has in recent times been partly fulfilled (see D. & C. 133:36-38), and Rev. 14:1 is yet to be fulfilled (See D. & C. 133:18). The chapters of the Revelation which follow mostly appear to await future fulfillment. John saw the thousand years of the Millennium when Satan is to be bound (Rev. 20:1-3 and compare D. & C. 29:22) and even the winding up scene in which there is to be a "new heaven and a new earth". (Rev. 21: 1 and compare D. & C. 29:23-29). The Revelation of John is in complete harmony with other revelations of the Lord pertaining to the future destiny of this earth and its glorification, the teachings of men to the contrary notwithstanding.
THE GLORIOUS MISSION OF THE APOSTLE JOHN.?The seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants clearly points out that John never tasted death, but was to remain upon the earth until the Lord's advent in glory in order to bring souls unto him. What a great and marvelous work John has undoubtedly accomplished throughout the ages! The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that in the thirties of the past century the Revelator went among the Ten Tribes to prepare them for their gathering to Zion. (See Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, p. 126) It appears that John still has a great work to do in helping to gather scattered Israel and in bringing to pass their redemption.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Have someone report on specific teachings of interest in I John.
2. Who was the individual that appeared to John on the Isle of Patmos? (See E. F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, 3rd ed., p. 186 or Hist. Of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 4)
3. Have someone report on the references made by Joseph Smith to the book of Revelation as given in Parry's, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 44-47.
4. Have a member of the class show how D. & C. 77 helps in the interpretation of certain chapters of the Revelation of John.
5. Name all the individuals you can who, like John, were translated.
6. Let some member of the class consult a good encyclopedia on apocalyptic literature and report her findings.
Plan for Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 2 Unity
"That whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the Gospel." ?Phil. 1:27.
MOST of the worth while things in the world have been accomplished through the principle of friendly cooperation. This is not a new principle; nor peculiar to the Latter-day Saint Church; it is as old as the society of men. It is essential to progress, whether in family, community or national life.
Unity comes from seeing eye to eye, from understanding born of knowledge, from perfect honesty, unselfishness, and love. The Master gave the pattern. He prayed for His apostles, "that they may be one even as you and I are one." ?John 17:22. To Latter-day Saints the principle is revealed anew, "I say unto you be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine." Doc and Cov. 38:27.
Upon the principle of unity the Church has grown in strength and influence. The quotation from Longfellow may well be applied: "All your strength is in your union; all your danger is in discord."
Our faith today must be concentrated in one great work, the building of the kingdom of God on earth. Those who keep this faith are united, of one heart and of one mind. "And because the Saints have free access to the Holy Spirit and may walk within His light and fellowship, and possess the intelligence which He is able to impart, a stricter harmony among the Saints may be insisted upon than in any other organization of men whatsoever."
"Unity in God's work is the strength of Zion."
Questions
1. Analyze causes of lack of unity among Church membership.
2. Point out instances in Church history where dissension has retarded progress.
3. What is our individual responsibility toward unifying Church membership?
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 2
"Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc"
LOUIS KOSSUTH, the great Hungarian patriot, makes the following statement: "Consider this unique and imposing distinction. Since the writing of human history began, Joan of Arc is the only person, of either sex, who has ever held supreme command of the military forces of a nation at the age of seventeen."
Book II, In Court and Camp, begins with a most touching farewell of Joan to her native village and her loved ones. She said: "The time is come. My voices are not vague now, but clear, and they have told me what to do. In two months I shall be with the Dauphin."
Her father was bitterly opposed to her course and did everything he could to restrain his daughter from taking any part in the war. This was a source of great sorrow to Joan, as she had always been most obedient to her parents' wishes, and it caused her great anguish to have to leave without their blessing. She had a premonition that she would never return. There was no thought of turning back, however. "And Joan took one long look back upon the distant village, and the Fairy Tree, and the oak forest, and the flowery plain, and the river, as if she was trying to print these scenes on her memory so that they would abide there always and not fade, for she knew she would not see them any more in this life."
The people now recalled an ancient prophecy made by the Welsh prophet Merlin, in the fifth century, to the effect that France would be lost by a woman, and that she would be saved by a maid. Many felt that Isabel of Bavaria, wife of the king of France, was responsible for the betrayal of the country because of her influence in the humiliating treaty with Henry V of England. They saw Joan of Arc as the maid who was sent by heaven to complete the prophecy.
It was Joan's plan to go first to the governor of the province, to secure his aid so that she could go on to the Dauphin. She won the hearts of the common people everywhere, but it was more difficult to convince the governor and his advisors. Joan waited patiently and worked at household tasks to pay for her lodging. She was absolutely unshaken in her story that "voices" from heaven instructed her, and though by nature most modest and retiring, she was never confused in the presence of high officials nor in doubt as to the course she should take.
It will be recalled that this was her second visit to Robert de Baudricourt, governor of the province. More than a year before he had sent her back to her home, but this time, though he at first refused to send her to the King, she said: "I must still come to you until I get the men-at-arms; for so it is commanded, and I may not disobey. I must go to the Dauphin though I go on my knees."
Her persistence and her sincerity impressed the governor to such an extent that he decided she was either a witch or a saint, and he was determined to find out which it was. He brought a priest to her, but the priest could find no devil. It must be remembered that this was two centuries before the Reformation, and the church held absolute sway over the minds and lives of the people. All authorities are agreed that Joan was deeply spiritual and devotedly attached to her religion, but neither the priests nor state officials nor her loved ones could shake her belief that she was commissioned of God to rescue France. "But indeed I would rather spin with my poor mother, for this is not my calling, but I must do it, for it is my Lord's will."
The governor was disturbed; he did not know what to do. At last Joan went to the castle and said, "My voices have brought the word to me, and it is true. A battle was lost today, and you are in fault to delay me so." The governor walked the floor, and finally said: "... Wait?If it shall turn out as you say, I will give you the letter and send you to the King, and not otherwise." After this Joan had no doubts that she would go. Finally a messenger came from the governor, who said: "You said true, child. The battle was lost on the day you said. So I have kept my word. Now go, come of it what may."
With remarkable accuracy the historical facts are closely followed, but the narrative is singularly free from the morbidly superstitious. Joan's was a pure and unshakable faith that admitted of no doubt. Her prophecies were only in relation to her own work, and she foretold that her mission would last but a year.
Book II deals with this year, beginning with her departure from her native province; it relates the superhuman achievements of this little country girl in whose words or deeds not a suggestion of self-seeking can be found. The author expresses his worshipful admiration for her in the Translator's Preface. "When we reflect that her century was the brutalest, the wickedest, the rottenest in history since the darkest ages, we are lost in wonder at the miracle of such a product from such a soil. The contrast between her and her century is the contrast between day and night. She was truthful when lying was the common speech of men; she was honest when honesty was become a lost virtue; she was a keeper of promises when the keeping of a promise was expected of no one;.... She was modest and fine and delicate when to be loud and coarse might be said to be universal; she was full of pity when a merciless cruelty was the rule; she was steadfast when stability was unknown, and honorable in an age which had forgotten what honor was; she was a rock of convictions in a time when men believed in nothing and scoffed at all things; she was unfailingly true in an age that was false to the core;... She was of a dauntless courage, when hope and courage had perished in the hearts of her nation."
The journey to Chinon, where the King had taken refuge, was full of adventure and danger. The King received Joan with suspicion and the Court with jealousy. The deception practiced upon her in substituting another for the King at the first interview is quite typical. The army officers were contemptuous, theologians examined her, and it was not until April 1429 that she was permitted to march upon Orleans. There is a thrilling recital of her audiences with the King, her marches with her army, her fighting at its head, her battle cry being always, "Follow me!" and her triumphant entry into Orleans on April 29. In May, the English were in full retreat from southern France. Joan rapidly followed, until in less than three months after she was given command of the army, she saw her King crowned in the magnificent Cathedral at Rheims. (The same cathedral?one of the finest specimens of pure Gothic architecture in the world?came into great prominence again during the World War.) The author fills the pages of his narrative with pen pictures of the events and figures of the time; stirring action and romantic atmosphere carry it through to conclusion. There is a remarkable individuality about the characters?the native villagers, the generals of France, the courtiers and the clergymen. In the person of the Paladin, a boastful peasant of Joan's native village, who became her standard-bearer, is interwoven a humorous element in Mark Twain's own unmistakable vein.
Chapter 35, "The Heir of France is Crowned," gives the picture of Joan's supreme triumph. Following the splendid ceremony, the King said, "You have saved the crown. Speak, require, demand, and whatsoever grace you ask it shall be granted, though it make the kingdom poor to meet it"... "Then, O gentle King, if out of your compassion you will speak the word, I pray you give commandment that my village, poor and hard pressed by reason of the war, may have its taxes remitted." "It is so commanded. Say on." "That is all." "All? Nothing but that?" "It is all. I have no other desire."
It was so ordered ? the tax gatherer never visited Domremy. After the King was crowned, Joan felt that her mission was accomplished, and she wished to return home to the quiet life she loved so well in her native village, but the King would not permit her to leave.
Of the accomplishment of Joan's brief career the author makes this comment: "The work wrought by Joan of Arc may fairly be regarded as ranking any recorded in history, when one considers the conditions under which it was undertaken, the obstacles in the way, and the means at her disposal. Caesar carried conquest far, but he did it with trained and confident veterans of Rome and was a trained soldier himself; and Napoleon swept away the disciplined armies of Europe, but he also was a trained soldier, and he began his work with patriot battalions inflamed and inspired by the miracle-working new breath of liberty, breathed upon them by the revolution, eager young apprentices to the splendid trade of war, not old and broken men-at-arms, despairing survivors of an agelong accumulation of monotonous defeats; but Joan of Arc, a mere child in years, ignorant, unlettered, a poor village girl unknown and without influence, found a great nation lying in chains, helpless and hopeless under an alien domination, its treasury bankrupt, its soldiers disheartened and dispersed, all spirit torpid, all courage dead in the hearts of the people through long years of foreign and domestic outrage and oppression, their King cowed, resigned to his fate, and preparing to fly the country; and she laid her hand upon this nation, this corpse, and it rose and followed her. She led it from victory to victory, she turned back the tide of the Hundred Years' War, she fatally crippled the English power, and died with the earned title of Deliverer of France, which she bears to this day."
Suggestions For Discussion
1. Compare the character of Joan as reflected in Book II with Book I. Demonstrate the consistency of the character development.
2. Have someone relate the story of the Cathedral at Rheims during the World War.
3. It would be very appropriate to have the noblest war song, "Joan of Arc We Are Calling You," sung.
4. Relate some of the most dramatic episodes in this year of triumph.
Social Service
PSYCHOLOGY AND MODERN PROBLEMS
Lesson 2
How Shall I Conduct Myself In An Age Of Automobiles
I. Automobiles Have Created One of the Most Serious Hazards to Life.
Medical progress during the past few decades has succeeded in eliminating small pox, diphtheria, malaria and typhoid as major causes of death; but in their wake has come the constant danger the automobile is to life and limb. In a booklet distributed by the Travelers Insurance Company, Death Begins at 40, we are told that "Our nation has engaged in six major wars since 1776. In total, these wars extended over a period of fifteen years. The number of American soldiers killed in action or who died of wounds during these fifteen years of war was 244,357." (p. 3). In fifteen years since 1923, there have been killed 441,912 persons, or about twice as many as during the same number of years of active war. Another alarming fact is that only once in these fifteen years before 1938 did the number of casualties decrease from the previous year, which was in 1932 when car registrations and perhaps the amount of driving done was reduced by the depression. In 1923 there were 18,031 deaths from car accidents, whereas by 1937 the total reached 40,300! Fortunately, since this report was written, the facts for 1938 available at this writing indicate a probable decrease for the year of approximately 8,000 deaths less than for 1937. The public has finally begun to realize that something must be done about the appalling dangers on our highways. It is gratifying to see that the broad educational and enforcement campaign carried on during the past year has brought some improvement. In Utah, however, there was an increase in fatalities during 1939?Utah being one of only three states in the Union that did not reduce the number of fatalities.
Fatality statistics show only part of the sad picture, too. In 1937, there were 1,221,090 persons injured by the automobile, many of whom, as Furnas says, would be "Better off Dead". II. The Principal Causes of Accidents Are Human, Not Mechanical. Automobiles are being improved much more rapidly than is the person who uses them. Automobile brakes are better than they have ever been, and the cars protect the person inside better than ever; roads are continually being widened, obstructions removed, and safer curves are being constructed. But the accident toll remains unbelievably high, nevertheless. The answer, of course, lies in the persons who drive. A man's "reaction time" is the time required to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 565 make an appropriate movement after a sign or stimulus has been given. The time it takes to apply the brakes after a car has been seen to approach from the side is the reaction time. This speed of reaction is quite fixed in a person and improves only moderately with practice. In most individuals, it takes about three-quarters of a second to apply the brakes after danger has been seen, then it takes some time to stop after that, even with good brakes and on a good surface. Modern cars are built to go faster and faster with each new model, but man's reaction time and judgment of speed and distance do not improve from one generation to the next. 'This fact is very important. If a car is going fifty miles an hour, it will travel fifty-five feet during the three-fourths of a second spent in getting the brakes set; by the time the car has come to rest, it will have gone 243 feet. At thirty miles per hour the brakes can be applied, and the car can be completely stopped within a hundred feet. The human mind is likewise limited in the number of things to which it can attend at once without confusion. In city traffic there are often many cars and persons to be watched at once. The resulting confusion definitely slows down reaction time, which requires slower speeds to avoid accidents. Judgment of speed and distance, upon which all driving depends, is affected greatly ly fatigue and various poisons. Long driving in heavy traffic, where much carbon monoxide gas is breathed, blunts the driver's judgment. Studies of accidents by truck drivers have shown that a 566 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great many very serious accidents occur as a result of going to sleep, and probably a great many more are partly a result of drowsiness and bad judgment. Alcohol is probably responsible for a great many more accidents than the statistics show. The causes of an accident are often reported as "recklessness," "speeding," or some other cause rather than "drunken driving". One reason for this is that proof of intoxication is very difficult in some cases. Convincing evidence, however, has been given recently that even mild quantities of alcohol will definitely decrease reaction speed, accuracy and judgment. In spite of this, the person who has been drinking acquires great confidence in his skill and has a "sense of well-being" which makes him take chances. He will race to beat red lights, will try to race with other cars, and will take curves too fast. Usually the more passengers he carries, the more daring he becomes. We should use every effort to prevent such persons from driving, just as we should stop an intoxicated person or an irresponsible child from pointing a loaded gun at people, which is really less dangerous. We have been discussing the limitations that are likely to occur in all so-called normal drivers. We shall now turn to some of the abnormal persons who menace our highways. There are a relatively small number of drivers who have a relatively large number of accidents, and there are a large number of drivers who have very few accidents. One survey showed that 100% of the accidents were caused by 24% of the drivers. Besides the normal limitations of these "repeaters" are found poor vision of one kind or another?near-sightedness, partial blindness, and crossed eyes. It is little wonder that they judge speed and distance so poorly. Other persons on the highways are mentally deficient and naturally lack the general good judgment required in driving. Then there are the occasional epileptics whose minds are often cloudy, the mildy insane, to say nothing of the warped personalities who "bully" their way through traffic, or who "show off" with their speed, or who throw tantrums when not given the full nght of way. Absent-minded persons, often of high social standing, are a great menace because their driving does not fully occupy their minds. These groups, along with habitual drinkers, are to be found among the "accident prone drivers" who cause more than their share of the accidents. The solution to the problem they create is to require stricter examinations before giving driver's licenses and stricter laws by which to remove from the highways this accident prone group. III. A Few Things a Driver Should Remember. Good drivers by practice develop judgment of speeds and distances so that they are able to allow enough margin to avoid collisions. This judgment is what makes the difference between an experienced driver and an inexperienced one who may know all of the rules of the road and the routine of operating a car. The margins of safety necessary will vary according to many conditions, such as the strangeness of the road, condition of the surface as to dampness and ice and snow, and the possibility of poorly visible objects such as livestock and pedestrians on roads at night. Many accidents are caused by poor judgment as to the amount of margin of safety required under these various conditions; for example, allowing a child on a bicycle plenty of room to make the unexpected turn into our path or for a cow to "change its mind". As we have suggested, this kind of judgment will be affected by experience, fatigue, alcohol, and personal fitness in mind and body. A few of the more common chances taken in disregard of necessary margins of safety are: (1) Passing on a hill another car going in the same direction when the possible approach of a third car cannot be seen; (2) passing on turns when the approach of another car or the presence of some obstruction cannot be seen; (3) failing to estimate the speed of an approaching car when passing one going in one's own direction, followed by "cutting in" on the one car and driving the other off the road; (4) driving too slowly and inattentively for the flow of traffic. Most traffic laws forbid these practices, but they are nevertheless common mistakes with serious results. A common failing many people have is to assume that because the law is on our side we have nothing to fear. We should always make allowances for people who will break the law, because there are always plenty of them. An especially important rule of the road is to always allow for whatever the other person may do unexpectedly, particularly children playing, children on bicycles and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 567 roller skates, as well as loose animals, and drunken drivers and other persons who give evidence of not being responsible. IV. A Few Things the Pedestrian Should Remember. During 1937, 43,290 of the fatalities were a result of collision of cars with pedestrians. Of fatal accidents to pedestrians, 27.8% occur while the pedestrian is crossing somewhere along the block between the intersections, and only 25.5% occur at intersections, although most of the pedestrians cross at the intersections. The reason for this fact is that cars go faster along the block and are less alert to pedestrians than at the intersections. Many accidents result from pedestrians stepping into the street from between parked cars, which allows the driver a very small margin of safety. Most accidents to pedestrians, in fact, occur within a few steps from the curb, about where people stop to look around. Never step from the curb until the way is clear, then walk resolutely across, and show no indecision after you have made sure you are safe. Of pedestrian fatalities, 20% occur while walking on rural highways, where the traffic is usually fast. Most of the pedestrians struck on tural highways are killed; only a small per cent (4.5%) of injuries occur here. Always walk on the left side of the road in order to face the on-coming traffic. When two cars are passing in opposite directions at the point where they pass you, always give them all of the road, because for an instant they are perfectly blind to everything but the glaring lights of the other car. This partial blindness may remain until 568 - AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some distance after they have passed, due to a limitation of the human eye in adapting to extremes of light and darkness. A flashlight or lantern should also be carried by pedestrians as an added precaution. Remember, too, that automobiles are much quicker than humans, and that as later maturity approaches, the reaction time of people becomes slower and we must revise our habits to allow ourselves as pedestrians still greater margins of safety than were necessary when we were younger. V. What Shall We Do About the Problem of Youth and Automobiles? Serious problems created by the automobile are not limited to the road. Modern youths have an almost irresistible urge to feel the sense of power which comes from driving a car. They look to privileges with automobiles as a sign of maturity even more than the change to long trousers formerly was. So strong is the desire to drive that car stealing has become one of the major forms of juvenile delinquency. Youth is often over-confident, daring, inclined to display, and to be irresponsible with property and life. The mastery of the mechanics of driving comes easily to most young people, but not so easily does good judgment and mature responsibility come. The proper approach to this problem seems to be not unlike that required in meeting most other problems of adolesence. Development of responsibility begins early in life by parents requiring children to comply with reasonable requirements, and by gradual growth through their exercising new powers and privileges. More concretely, this means that young people should begin their training in the use of the automobile considerably before they are legally prepared to drive (sixteen years of age in Utah). This should be done by an understanding father who takes every care not to "fall out" with the youth in the process of training. Training, of course, should be in some isolated place where there is little chance of accident. Encouragement for success and good example are more effective than scolding and preaching. What the youth needs is confidence based upon genuine and thorough skill and judgment. Parents are wiser not to emphasize the differences in judgment between themselves and their children. Parents should be aware that their judgment is better; but to be of service as teacher, antagonism and resentment must be avoided. In giving advice while the youth is driving, avoid excitement and distraction which result from sharp, scolding remarks. Mothers often utterly fail to have any beneficial effect on young drivers, because they have "fallen out" with their children at least so far as the driving situation is concerned. Too much nagging is especially harmful and ill-advised. Consideration for parents in the use of the automobile should be encouraged as one of the "good things in life" and an essential part of the larger problem of wholesome personality development in youth. VI. Are You a Back Seat Driver? We have seen that distraction decreases reaction speed and may thereby contribute to accidents. "Back seat driving" does this, and more. Personality conflicts between the driver and the "'would-be-driver" are likely to result. The driver may then take out his antagonism by being discourteous to other traffic. Psychologists have long contended that judgment is not so good when we are angry. Moreover, the driver seldom takes the advice of the "back seat driver," even though it be cor- "rect. There is a difference between "back seat driving," which is held in considerable disrepute, and occasional offering of suggestions, which may be compared to what has been said about attitudes that should prevail between father and son in learning to drive. "Back seat driving" is usually a failure in influencing the driver in the same way that any attempt to influence other people is a failure if it is not based upon a recognition and respect for the egofeelings of the one to be influenced. Problems For Discussion 1. What do we mean by "accident prone drivers"? Name a few types of persons who fall into this class. 2. Read Child Guidance Lesson 5, Relief Society Magazine, June, 1937, Pp. 755-58. Show the importance of the automobile in psychological weaning. 3. Show how "back seat driving" is likely to defeat its own purpose. 4. Carefully examine your habits as a pedestrian. How can you revise them in order to increase your own safety? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 569 References 1. Barsantee, Harry. Death Begins at 4o. Distributed free by Travelers Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. Presents great many facts on causes of accidents, in popular and humorous style. 2. Forbes, T. W. Accidents in Traffic and Industry as Related to the Psychology of Vision. National Society for the Prevention of Blindness, 1936. 50 West soth Street, New York. Price 10?. 3. Furnas, J. C., Smith, E. N. Sudden Death and How to Avoid It. Simon and Schuster, New York: 1935: 25c. Includes reference 5s, also two articles describing horrors of car accidents; not recommended for persons easily affected. "And Sudden Death," by J. C. Furnas, appeared in Readers Digest, August, 1935- 4. Reisner, E. J., deOnis, H., and Stolper, T. M., eds. Parents and the Automobile. 1936. Teachers' College, Bureau of Publications, Columbia University, New York. Especially good on problems of youth and automobiles. 5. Smith, Ernest N., Manual for Safe Driving, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1935. Distributed free by Glen Falls Indemnity Co., Glen Falls, N. Y. Included in reference 3. Also request a copy of the state motor vehicle laws from your highway department. &ducation for Family Li e Family Relationships Lesson 2 The Family Pocketbook THE working out of a cooperative plan for the management of the family pocketbook that is acceptable to all members of the family group will result in enhanced happiness and satisfaction in family living. Agreement in the financial relationships within the family will determine more than will any other factor the nature of all other relationships. One writer has said, "Tell me the degree of success a family has achieved in handling its financial relationships and I can predict with Surprising accuracy the degree of success which that family will be able to achieve in its social and emotional relationships." Economic conditions of today are so different from those of earlier periods and the conditions confronting each family are so varied that we must consider the problem of finance in each family as and individual case involving specific factors. However, we can select fundamental difficulties and needs which are present in the task of management of finances in every family. We can also offer some suggestions as to methods of handling income that have been experimented with by a sufficient number of families to warrant an evaluation of such practices. At this time we present only a few of those practices which are recommended on the basis that they are in harmony with the most commonly accepted philosophy of successful family life in the world of today. 1. It is of primary importance to recognize the fact that the financial status of the family is determined by the competent management of the income quite as much as by the amount of the income. Many people are poor because of how they spend rather than because of how much they have. 2. Skill and efficiency in the distribution and expenditure of the income can be acquired by every normal person who has a sufficiently strong determination and who is given an opportunity for experience in the handling of money., 3.