Mothers' Influence in Priesthood Work
By Achsa E. Paxman
I WONDER if mothers express joy and appreciation for the good deeds of their sons to the same extent that they offer disapproval for failures and wrongdoing. Appreciation and encouragement for good deeds bring joy and a desire to continue actions that will bring further approval. Encouragement is one of the greatest needs of humanity.
A normal home and good parental training are essential in the life of a child. "We form all our concepts and habits of good, truth, loyalty, faithfulness, and morality, immediately around us." The future of the individual depends upon the wisdom and guidance of parents.
Every child needs the influence of a church. Wise parents recognize the importance of the church influence in the lives of children and encourage every possible contact with it. Our Church, through the Priesthood, provides an influence most vital in the lives of our boys and young men. How can mothers influence sons to be active in the Priesthood?
Every mother who is prayerful, who has faith in God and a desire to live the principles and teachings of the Gospel will be an influence in the spiritual life of her boy. "Provoke the brethren to good works" is one of the admonitions given to Relief Society women by our Prophet Joseph. The woman who is wielding influence over her own boy is also, through that boy, wielding influence over other boys.
The following few incidents, which Brother Newell K. Young relates in his lesson book for the ordained teachers are illustrative of the fine influence and spiritual direction of mothers:
A young man had been sent to Germany on a mission. His first three months in Germany were months of distressing doubts and misery. He took no part in the actual missionary work and found but little results from his study of the German language or the Scriptures. Many times he would have given up and gone home, in spite of his desire not to hurt his father and mother and friends, had it not been for the sympathetic understanding and unfailing kindness of his missionary companion.
At one of the meetings, in which were three learned sectarian ministers who had confidently come for the avowed purpose of confounding our Elders, the president of the Swiss-German Mission called upon the missionary companion of the doubting and troubled boy to speak. This missionary did not dispute nor argue. He simply bore his testimony. In an earnest, manly manner, under the inspiration of the Lord, he told of the fruits of Mormonism in the lives of our people. He told of his experience as a soldier in the United States Army in the Philippines during the Spanish American War. He related his parting with his mother as typical of Mormon life. He quoted her last words to him as he left home: "My boy, come back as clean as you are now, as pure as a child." And with a spirit and influence that even the ministers could not challenge, he bore record that he came home clean. The force of this testimony touched these men's hearts, and they confessed themselves misled regarding Mormonism. They declared their good will for the Elders, saying that such men as these could be only a blessing to Germany and her people.
This testimony let in a stream of light to the doubtful and disheartened Elder. He, too, found God. Since that time he has not ceased to proclaim Him at every opportunity. The mother who wielded influence over her boy in the Priesthood, as a soldier, and also as a missionary, had helped influence another missionary boy.
A widowed mother with four children was suddenly bereft of her only adult kin, her mother. Speaking of the trials and faith and courage of his mother, her eldest son said, "I think it was not so much what she said as what she was. Her very life breathed a beautiful peace into the souls of those about her. This gentle, quiet, suffering little mother of mine lived into my life the feeling that heaven was near, and that God was good to her and all of his children even in their sorrows."
The mother who can inspire confidence that God is good and is looking after His children will promote faith and devotion in her boy and will build a foundation for Priesthood work.
A mother who was working early and late to provide for her five small children found it impossible to get a much needed pair of shoes for her boy. In response to his complaining and coaxing she said, "I cannot get you shoes. When you pray evenings and mornings, ask the Lord and He will open some way for us to get them." "Twice each day during my prayer said at Mother's knee I put the case up to our Father in Heaven. A few days later an uncle's wagon stopped before our door. Unmindful of the snow and cold, I scampered out with my bare feet. 'Hello, what have we here? Bare feet! A barefooted boy in all this snow! Climb up here and see what I have for you.' The uncle handed me a pair of boots. 'See here how good my Heavenly Father is to me,' I exclaimed. 'I asked Him only for shoes and He has sent me red-topped boots.' "
I'm sure that you will agree that this mother had already established in her boy a sympathetic understanding and faith in God that would later be influential in promoting interest in Priesthood work. In all probability, before her boy is twelve years old he will have received such further training that he will be prepared and desirous of becoming a deacon.
When your boy is ordained to the Priesthood of Deacon, impress him with the importance and privilege of having the Priesthood bestowed upon him. During his term of office, know whether or not he has collected his fast offerings and attended his meetings and other duties as he should. If he has been a trustworthy deacon, he will be a better teacher and priest, but each time he is advanced in the Priesthood the interest of the mother should be displayed in this new honor. Probably special mention of the added honor of receiving a promotion in the Priesthood could be made at meal time when the family are together, or perhaps a cake or special dessert served in his honor.
Continue with interest and encouragement, that the boy may magnify his calling and know the joy of work well done. If some question regarding the Priesthood arises, honor the young man holding the Priesthood by referring the question to him. The home that is blessed with this vital interest and encouragement will be filled with joy and satisfaction and will enjoy more abundantly the Church and its spiritual blessings.
May our Father in Heaven bless the women, the mothers, that they may have wisdom that is seldom at fault, patience, unfailing trust, love unfaltering, faith in God. Then we are sure that our influence in supporting the Priesthood will be felt and the young men of the Church be brought into greater activity.