CONTEMPLATION By Bertha M. Rosevear
There's a still and beautiful moment, Between darkness and daylight, called dawn, When night slips away into silence, And the soul to its Maker is drawn.
There's mystery that thrills in the sunrise, In the flickering birth of a day, As the portals of heaven swing open Disclosing each heralding ray.
There's glory and grandeur at noontide, When the Sun in the heaven is high, Soaring majestic, resplendent, In his course through the dome of the sky.
There's a charm in the blush of the evening, When the west is all crimson and gold, That speaks of the great Master Painter In terms that are reverent, yet bold.
There's an awe that comes strangely stealing As the black velvet curtain of night Drops softly, and stars like tapers Keep watch with their pale glimmering light.
There's a truth that's convincing, eternal, As each moment its rapture bestows: The heavens declare God's glory, The firmament His handiwork shows.
The Relief Society in the Welfare Plan By Harold B. Lee
"In all that relates to the supplying of clothing, the preparation and preservation of foodstuffs, the nursing of the sick, the burial of the dead, in all that relates to the infinities of kindly attention and sympathy, in all that relates even remotely to the love and ritual of motherhood, the Women's Relief Society carries the burden. The bishop is the father of his ward; the Relief Society is the mother. The Church Welfare Plan could not be carried on without them; it serves in greatest measure where they are most active. They establish sewing and cooking centers, they help with making budgets, they encourage the heavily burdened and despondent, they hold up the hands of the fainthearted, they sweep despair out of the hearts of the distressed, they plant hope and faith and righteousness in every household. Womanhood is the nearest approach to the divine which mortals know. Mothers make up the great membership of the Relief Society."
The above tribute to the Relief Society organization of the Church was paid by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in an address delivered before business executives at Estes Park, Colorado, on June 20, 1939. It would be difficult to describe any activity relating to the Welfare Plan in which the Relief Society is not expected to play an important role. Truly, it bears a relationship to the bishops of wards and Priesthood quorums that suggests a family relationship.
Unity of the Priesthood with the Relief Society in Welfare Work.
For nearly 100 years the Relief Society organization has been charged with the responsibility of searching after those in need and provoking the brethren in looking after their poor, and they have kept this charge most faithfully. Recently from our Presiding Authorities has come a new interpretation of the work of a Priesthood quorum in welfare work. There has been called to service in every Melchizedek Priesthood quorum in the Church an activity group known as a Personal Welfare Committee whose business it is to safeguard the welfare of every member of the quorum and to search out those in need. It should be clear to everyone that with two great organizations such as Priesthood quorums and Relief Society entering into the field of welfare harmony is essential. Perhaps no one thing is more imperative today in the Welfare Plan than teamwork and coordination of the work assigned to Personal Welfare Committees and Relief Society organizations.
Organizations of the Church Welfare Plan.
To foster this unity, the Church Welfare Committee has described a Stake Welfare Committee composed of the following: Members of the Stake Presidency as advisors, a member of the Stake Presidency as chairman of the Committee, and the following as members: Stake Work Director, Chairman of the Bishop's Executive Council, Chairman of Stake Agricultural Committee, Stake Relief Society President and Stake Relief Society Work Director. This Committee is expected to plan the welfare program for a given stake and to stimulate corresponding committees in the various wards of the stake to activities that will accomplish the objectives that have been outlined for the Plan.
In each ward the Ward Welfare Committee consists of the following: Ward Bishopric as advisors, the Ward Bishop or one of his counselors acting as chairman, and the following as members: Ward Work Director, Chairman of Personal Welfare Committees of the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Leader of the Aaronic Priesthood, Ward Relief Society President and Ward Relief Society Work Director. This Committee is expected to meet together weekly, and by the use of surveys and reports that may come periodically, and in harmony with instructions from the Stake Welfare Committee, is to conduct such activities and promote such projects as will assist needy individuals of the Church to become self-sustaining.
Suggested Types of Projects.
The Ward Welfare Committee in cooperation with the Stake Welfare Committee is expected to carry on in every line of endeavor to promote the welfare of the people of the ward. Projects and activities that may be stimulated by this group may be classified under the three following headings:
A. Projects for the production of commodities needed by unemployed persons or which may be exchanged for commodities that are needed, such as: Canning of fruits and vegetables, production of meats and meat products, producing flour, cereals, soaps, cleansers, poultry products, fish, butter, cheese, milk, clothing, fuel, building materials and furniture. Many of these articles are not yet produced in sufficient abundance to meet the requirements of those who are forced to subsist on Bishops' Orders after having done all they can to help themselves.
B. Church activities carried on by other organizations and closely related to the Welfare Plan, such as:
1. The payment and collection of tithes and fast offerings as outlined by the Presiding Bishop's office.
2. Home and Church Beautification.
3. Activities of Priesthood quorums in finding employment for our unemployed members in private industry.
4. Conduct of Priesthood Quorum projects to assist dependent members to become self-sustaining.
5. The Genealogical projects to raise funds to assist elderly or handicapped persons to work in the temples on subscription lists submitted by donors.
6. Vocational training and guidance for young people through the M. I. A.
C. Industrial or commercial enterprises designed to create new wealth in the communities and to furnish new employment. Under this head may be listed the following:
1. Industrial projects that grow out of efforts to assist distressed individuals.
2. Cooperative industrial and marketing organizations.
In the planning of all these projects the Relief Society presidents are to join and so coordinate their work with the Priesthood groups that all able-bodied, unemployed persons in need of assistance will be required to give service on such projects. All individuals who are so engaged are to be properly fed, clothed, and housed, according to the desires and wishes of the Presiding Brethren. The Relief Society workers should be constantly alert to find points of contact where a closer relationship with Priesthood quorums would make for increased power and greater opportunities in the Welfare Plan.