GUARDING THE FAMILY HEALTH By Elna Miller Conference Address, Work and Business Department
THE question of guarding the family health through nutrition is one that is receiving not only state-wide but national and international attention. At the League of Nations' Convention a Nutrition Department was conducted with representatives from different countries in attendance. Their report was that a great deal of improvement has been made recently in food consumption habits, but there is still a great deal of malnutrition present in all countries. Their recommendation is that we improve diets by increasing the use of the supply of protective foods— milk, fruits, proteins, and whole grains.
Food supplies for optimum and adequate diet are receiving a great deal of attention now. The adequate diet is one which has just enough of the proper food elements to prevent any serious disorders developing. The optimum diet, on the other hand, is one which promotes the most favorable degree of physical development. Dr. H. C. Sherman is largely responsible for the optimum diet. He has done a great deal of research and experimental work, largely with albino rats and guinea pigs. To the adequate diet he added more milk, vitamins, proteins and the whole grain cereals. The results of his study show that optimum diet results in an increased rate of growth and development during the growing period, increased adult vitality after the adult stage is reached, and also increased retention of the characteristics of youth, more vigor, and also an increased life span.
WHILE we have been doing a great deal to improve the diet of the child, we must still keep in mind that the adult also needs the right diet. In about 1934 the Bureau of Home Economics made a study of the dietary habits of 25,000 families in eight regions of the United States. The only families considered in this study were families who had definite incomes. Both urban and rural communities were represented. Families were classified according to the amount of money spent in a year's time for the food supply—$50, $100, $150, to above $350. From this study we found that proper diet is not just a case of getting enough money but of spending money wisely. Many families who were spending enough money for a fully adequate diet, were not getting it.
In analyzing each group for adequacy, examinations were made to determine if diets contained sufficient minerals and vitamins. In determining calcium adequacy, it was found that less than half had a sufficient supply, not enough for good bone and tooth development, for maintaining muscle tone, and making it possible for the blood to clot normally. Only about half were getting enough iron—an essential mineral. The best source of iron is in whole grain cereals. Only about one-fifth were getting an adequate vitamin A supply, so necessary for protecting lining tissues. The lack of vitamin A in sufficient quantities causes nutritional night blindness; individuals fail to make the proper adjustment to light, especially during the twilight period of the day. This is being given as one of the probable causes of so many automobile accidents.
Vitamin B was found to be deficient in the diets of about half of those studied. An animal whose diet is low in B is a nervous little creature. This is typical of the condition of children when they have a low supply of vitamin B. Diets low in vitamin C were found in about the same number as those low in vitamin B—just about half of the group having sufficient. We need this vitamin along with calcium and phosphorous. We find if we can increase the supply of vitamin C in the diet of people who have sore gums, this condition will clear up. Vitamin C will help to prevent pyorrhea.
In 1934, 70 per cent of the 43,000 young men in the prime of life, who should be in the very best possible physical condition, who applied for entrance in the U. S. Navy were rejected because of physical defects largely due to malnutrition. The year following, 1935, 75 per cent of 28,000 were rejected.
SOME of our people have been quite disturbed because of the reports of our findings through our health examinations of school children. These examinations are made by our school physicians. Reports from all of the counties in Utah are similar; and from what we learn from other states, conditions are not very much better there—some are worse. People will say, "I know my child is not malnourished." It seems to be such a shock to people to tell them that anything is wrong with their children. Unfortunately, we find a high percentage with physical disorders, poor posture, crooked bones, etc. Much of this is due to poor diet.
As I have gone into some of our schools to select children as examples of well developed boys and girls, I have found it exceptionally hard to find good specimens. The hair condition is one of the first things we look for. The condition of the young child, or any individual for that matter, shows in the hair. If the hair is dull and lifeless-looking, we usually find nutritional disorders.
Teeth examinations have been quite revealing. Of one hundred and sixty-eight school children examined, 7 were found with good teeth, 46 with bad teeth, 30 had very bad teeth, and 85 had extremely bad teeth. These children attended school in one of our well-to-do communities. There is no good reason, from an economic standpoint, why the teeth of these children should have been in such a condition.
In one of our public clinics 16 babies were examined; 15 had definite signs of rickets. This is not a very hopeful condition. It is not hopeless, however, because we can do much toward correction or prevention. If we are going to guard the family health through good nutrition, we must supply the mother, in the prenatal period, with the right kind of food. This good beginning must be carried on through the entire life span of the individual.
WE want to train the public in good food habits. Milk supply is important — one quart of milk every day for the growing child, and preferably for the adult, in order to supply the needed calcium. Calcium comes from other sources also, but it is quite difficult to get enough from these.
After milk we want to insure the vegetable supply. Three vegetables are needed—one leafy, green or yellow, one serving of potatoes, and one serving of some other vegetable. Our fruit supply comes next. We want at least two servings of fruit in the diet every day. Our total of five vegetables and fruits during the day should include tomatoes, or citrus fruits. This is particularly important in preventing scurvy. One of these fruits or vegetables should be raw, so that we can get the tooth exercise and gum stimulation necessary.
We need a sufficient quantity of protein, which is so necessary in building muscle tissue, and which is found in fish, eggs and meats. A whole grain cereal supply is also important for iron and some of the vitamin B. We want a vitamin D and A supply which we get from cod liver oil, or its equivalent. Cod liver oil is not a medicine; it is a food. All people do not need it; some can get enough from the natural foods, but many people, growing children and nursing mothers, should be taking this vitamin either in the form of capsules or liquid.
Then there is our water supply. Many people neglect this. Small children should have four glasses, the next age group six glasses, and adults eight glasses per day. Rickets can be prevented by vitamin D, with calcium and phosphorous.
"The education of the general population in the principles of correct eating, so that they may avoid dietary deficiency states and dangerous dietary fads and attain a maximum of resistance to disease and a nearer approach to a life of perfect health," is of greatest concern to all.
ON BEING PRESENTED WITH A LOCKET By Ruth Louise Partridge
They stood beside me wide eyed, Nine and Six, And put the golden trinket in my hand, Child fashion. With mouths drawn into rosebuds with their secret, Both tried at once to make me understand.
I had coveted a locket all my life. At nine and six gold filled me with amazes. But now— How strange it is that now it's cherished only Because it holds a picture of their faces.
"The Ancient Beautiful Things" A Short Short Story By Vesta P. Crawford
JOHN WILSON sat on a rounded rock half way up a long hill in the South Downs country. Below him at the base of the white sea cliffs the little village of Shoreham jutted out into the Channel. It was a fine clear day, but John was tired. He took off his worn shoes and pressed his feet down into the cool grass. The salty breeze swept up the hills and ruffled the man's white hair. Here he was in England again, back home after so many years.
From his coat pocket he took out a blue notebook, a small bottle of ink, and his pen. He balanced the book on his knee and began to write slowly:
"Today is the tenth of August, 1896. I am in my sixty-fifth year and have been on this mission nearly fourteen months. Here I am in this lovely South Downs country, the land of my birth. Shoreham, my native village, lies below me. Forty years ago I left this place and sailed to America with my wife and child. Forty years, and now I am back again, a Mormon missionary tracting in the very section where I played as a youth.
"Forty years—so much has happened. The child we had then has been dead thirty-nine years. My wife died twenty years ago. I am very poor in worldly goods. Yet, in America I found great wealth of spirit, joy in the Gospel, and happiness with my family.
"Utah is a strange country — so very new. I realize this more fully now as I sit on the hills above that place where the ships of the Saxon kings lay at anchor nearly a thousand years ago. Near me, along the roads that wind inland, are old castles and steepled churches with intricate carvings and stained glass windows. Not far away is London with its great museums and magnificent libraries housing the art and culture of the centuries. Indeed, when I think of all this, I am more sympathetic than ever with the efforts of my people in the mountain valleys to bring education and opportunity to their children. It is I, and others like me, who must take back all that we can of the good things of the earth, the ancient beautiful things....."
John closed the book and put it back in his pocket. He stood up, stretched himself, and picked up his shoes. He turned them upside down to get the pebbles out. Then, when the shoes were again neatly laced and tied, he started slowly up the hill, holding his head high, feeling the wind on his face. At the summit he stopped and breathed deeply. How different the moist air was from the dry atmosphere of Utah, the dusty, dry air of the desert. He wondered how things were going now, far away in that little farming community known as Dover. The hills, high crested, blue, now would be glinting in the hot sun of late summer; the river, shrunken in its steep banks, now would move slowly, drift along, unruffled. His little adobe house perched above the stream, how did it look now? His fields, how would his fields be now? Dry, withered, no doubt, burned up with alkali—his hard-won fields!
Now he took another look at the sea beating endlessly against the white cliffs, beating against the shore. He turned around and walked down the other side of the hill toward Kingstone. Secluded, safe, the village lay, coved in by the hills, its crooked streets curved through a green meadow. John thought of the long roads of his Utah home, rutted, dusty, bordered with sagebrush. Perhaps even now, at this very moment, his daughter Maud might be walking along the road toward the adobe house. Dear Maud, black-haired, gray-eyed, a frail little thing for being all of twenty-two. And his daughter Kate, where was she? Home in the house singing, very likely, or perhaps out in the garden. Let's see, it was Maud's birthday this month and six weeks later Kate would be twenty-four. What would he send them for their birthdays? He couldn't spend much money. If only he could find something to bear a message from England to these children of his, something to carry the beauty and culture of this mother country to the far Utah valley—some token of a father's love, to bridge the sea and bring the green hills of England and the gray hills of Utah close together.
It was nearly sundown when John came into Kingstone. Ahead of him he could see a second-hand book store. Nearly every village in England had them, crowded little shops where you might find anything from an Atlas of the World to a first edition of Shakespeare. John never could pass a bookstore without at least looking. How he loved books. How his daughters loved books. Books, that was it. Books are the carriers of all ancient beautiful things. They bear messages of hope and achievement and high thoughts from one generation to another, from one land to another, from great minds to lesser minds. Books are the treasure chests of the ages.
He read title after title. He kept saying to himself, "I'd better hurry along. I really can't afford to buy books." Then he saw them right together, two volumes—The Poems of Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and the other, The Poems of Felicia Hemans. Both were selling for three shillings. John's fingers touched the good leather bindings. The title letters were written in gold. He turned the pages of the Browning volume. He scanned the immortal words of that Elizabeth who said she was "but a cricket," compared to her husband, the great Robert, who was "a mandolin". John turned the pages. He noted the perfection of the lines of poetry, the music of the words....."Because God's gifts put man's best dreams to shame..." John laid the volume down and picked up the Hemans poems. He turned to his favorite, that great American poem, written by an English poetess—The Landing of the Pilgrims......"The breaking waves dashed high on a stern and rockbound coast, and the woods against a stormy sky their giant branches tossed......
The Englishman from America handed the two volumes across the counter. "I'll take both of these," he said, and took three shillings out of his purse. He stood there and wrote on the fly-leaf of the Browning volume: "To my dear daughter Kate, with best birthday wishes, from your father in England, 1896." Upon the fly-leaf of the other, he penned in large letters: "To my darling Maud, many happy returns of your natal day, from your father across the sea."
John laid a fourth shilling on the counter. "Mail these books, please," he said. "Here's the address—The Misses Kate and Maud Wilson, Dover, Sanpete County, Utah, U. S. A."
It was dusk when he came out of the shop. Deep quiet lay upon the village and stretched away to the hills. Peace and beauty. John thought again of the land of his birth and the land of his adoption. He thought of the sea and ships and the long roads in Utah. He thought— I have sent some of England home to America.
ZION By Gertrude Perry Stanton
Walls may be built of brick or stone To hedge in what one calls his own; Sometimes they're made so wide and high They shut out all the sun and sky, And human lives must forfeit pay For walls built in a selfish way.
Walls may be built by thoughts inclined To lead to words and deeds unkind; Then soon come bitterness and pain, Until repentance is in vain. Watch well your thoughts and acts each day That no foundation you may lay
To build a wall of hate or doubt, And thus shut love and friendship out.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
AUGUST—How can human heart conceive a thought of wrong In a world aglow with beauty, rhapsody and song?
LADY ASTOR, Virginia born, member of Parliament, recently won a debate against her antagonist, a burly Scotch Highlander, by presenting him with a deer park on which he was proposing high taxes.
ALICE MARBLE, Helen Hull Jacobs and Sarah P. Fabyan, three American tennis champions, carried off the honors again this year at Wimbledon.
BARONESS LIZETTE VON CAPRI, Swiss aviatrix, made a good will tour of the United States this summer. She contemplates organizing a woman's ambulance corps affiliated with the Red Cross.
IDA PATTERSON, noted newspaper woman, who recently died in Florida was at one time associated with the Salt Lake Herald and an early member of the Utah Women's Press Club.
MAY ROBSON was signally honored by the American Institute of Cinematography for her fifty-six years of achievement on the stage and screen.
PHEBE LOUISE HOLMES WELLING, a daughter of Utah pioneers, who recently died was a daughter of Elmira Coles, first treasurer of the Relief Society in Nauvoo.
JANE BALLANTYNE ANDERSON whose death occurred last month was an ardent worker in the cause of education and social work and will be greatly missed.
GRACE ABBOTT, famed social worker and head of the United States Children's Bureau for 14 years, died last June in Chicago. Miss Abbott's career as a welfare worker was a 30 year fight against infant and maternity mortality, child labor, and juvenile delinquency.
WILHELMINA GARN ROGERS of Ogden, Utah, died last month nearing her 104th birthday. What memories, inventions, discoveries, wars, thrones gained and lost, unfolded during her life of more than a century. One marvels at the miracle.
AGNES KEITH, a Californian, was awarded the $5,000 Atlantic Monthly prize for her book "Land Below The Wind", the most distinctive non-fiction story; while Maurine Whipple of Utah won the Houghton Mifflin fellowship prize of $1,000 for her novel "The Giant Joshua" and Mary King of New Orleans and Helen Todd of St. Louis also won literary fellowships for new novels.
KATHARINE OGLESBY has written and issued a lovely illustrated book on Indian arts, describing the pottery, weaving, basketry, carving, etc., of the different tribes of the Great Plateau.
 
Amy Whipple Evans Emeline Y. Nebeker Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson Nettie D. Bradford Beatrice F. Stevens Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford Marcia K. Howells Rae B. Barker Jennie B. Knight Donna Durrant Sorensen Emma A. Empey Nellie O. Parker Annie Wells Cannon Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Anna S. Barlow Cora L. Bennion Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman