There will be greater happiness and cooperation if there is an understanding between husband and wife that the income is their income, as each is doing the special work needed in maintaining a happy successful home. As the family increases and there are more wage earners, it makes for greater family unity and solidarity if each one earning contributes to the family budget for meeting necessary family expenses according to his ability to earl. Today, when so many young people are unable to find work, care should be taken that they are not made to feel they are a burden. Work around home should be given them so that they may feel they are a real member of the group sharing in the responsibilities and opportunities of the group. True it is that the special responsibility of the father is to provide for the satisfaction of the material needs of the family. And in turn it is the responsibility of each member to cooperate in the spending process so that full value will be received for every dollar expended. To insure against the father being considered as merely a money-making machine he should take an active interest in all the functions of the family so that he will have a sympathetic understanding of the daily affairs of family living. 4. There should be mutual understanding concerning the amount of income that is available for family living. It is unjust for any member of the family to be deceived as to the available resources of the group. Husband and wife should accept the democratic viewpoint of joint control of the income. And they should discuss with the children the financial problems of the family as far as they are able to understand. 6. Whether the income be large or small it should be budgeted. If the income is not regular, the minimum average should be taken as the basis for the budget. 7. In order to achieve well palanced spending the income should be apportioned so that each member of the group will have some money under his control. 'The proportion for each will vary according to his age and ability to assume the responsibility that accompanies the possession of money. The art of managing the family income should be developed during childhood to the extent that the child is allowed to share in the rights and duties that are involved in the problem of finance. Sound habits RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 571 and methods of spending should be well established before the child leaves home permanantly. If such training has not been. Acquired before marriage, it will necessarily have to be obtained largely through the trial and error method. In addition to knowledge gained through their own experimentation those who are wise will seek advice and will profit by the experience of those who show evidence of skill in the control of the domestic exchequer. Take for example the case of the Brown family: Mrs. Brown says, "John dear, I just can't understand why it is that the Greens can have so many more things than we can, and I know that your salary is nearly once again larger than Mr. Green's." Mr Brown has been wondering the same thing for quite some time. At the suggestion of Mr. Brown, the Greens were invited to spend an evening with the Browns for the purpose of chatting over the subject of family finance. The Greens considered the invitation to be a real compliment, since it signified that in the opinion of other people they had achieved success in one of the most important phases of family living. Hence, they welcomed the opportunity to share with others their experiences as well as the practices to which they gave credit for what they called their "financial salvation". During the first two years of their married life the Greens incurred sufficient debt to cause them both to be in a state of constant worry and anxiety, and needless to say intense irritability. At times even their marriage seemed to them to have been a mistake. Fortunately, each realized 572 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the seriousness of the situation and was willing to accept his or her share of the responsibility for the condition into which they had drifted. The first task they assigned themselves was to carefully scrutinize past expenditures and present bills. 'This brought to their attention the fact that the major part of their income had been spent not for the purpose of supplying their own needs but rather to satisfy their desires to have what their friends had and to do what they did. Obviously, they were trying to keep up with a group of young married couples with much higher incomes than theirs, and at the same time they were cultivating a purely materialistic attitude toward values. In the interest of brevity, we shall say that the Greens decided to withdraw from their immediate circle of friends and to make new friends among those of their own economic class. This determination called for courage, tact, and sacrifice, all of which have been well repaid i in increased happiness. What would probably have been the wiser and more sensible solution? Next they worked out a budget which included a column headed "debts for trying to keep up with the Joneses". Their next decision was to pay cash for every article purchased unless it was an article that offered relatively permanent utility. In order to more completely establish a new set of spending habits, Mrs. Green decided that she would arrange her household tasks so that she would be able to go to the market for her supplies rather than to order them over the telephone, and that her buying list would be carefully prepared before she left home. These two practices resulted in the purchase of fewer food supplies and the serving of more adequate meals, also in increased power to resist the temptation to buy expensive, outof-season foods, and to resist the pressure of high-powered advertising and salesmanship. Trying to live within the budget soon became an intriguing game for both mates, a game in which they have succeeded to the extent that they are now enjoying the great happiness of the anticipation of the arrival of a third member in their family, the expense of which has been provided for by wiser spending and not by an increase in income. It is not within the limits of this lesson to discuss all of the seven points previously mentioned; however, it is the hope that all will be discussed in class. It is unfair to either the husband or the wife to be placed in the humiliating position of having to ask the other for money for necessities. Money for the satisfaction of needs should not be considered as a gift by either mate. If the income is considered as a partnership fund and is placed under joint control, the danger of either of the above situations arising will be eliminated. Many families who handle their income as a partnership fund have found that the joint checking account works out most satisfactorily. This is true, however, only if each mate is absolutely honest, frank, and conscientious in regard to spending and to keeping the other mate daily informed as to the amount of money that has been withdrawn from the account, and each must keep an accurate account of his expenditures. Other families have found that a division of the income according to an agreement which is satisfactory and just to each, with the major responsibility of handling the funds assumed by the mate who is best prepared to carry on this task, is a " more desirable plan. To many the word budget is a regular bugbear, either because of a misconception of the meaning of the term or because of an unpleasant experience connected with it. By budget we simply mean planned expenditures for the future based on the record of past expenditures and estimated income. Any book on family economics will give detailed instructions for setting up and carrying out the budget system. A few general suggestions may prove helpful at this time. The figures for the family budget should be decided upon by the entire family group. Begin by deciding what are the essentials for good living. Special consideration should be given to the differentiation between self-indulgences and worthy desires. Food, shelter, operating expenses, clothes, and opportunities for growth are considered primary needs. Ilies it should not be necessary to mention that the matter of tithing is also of primary importance. Personal needs should receive consideration only after group needs have been determined. The amount of money for personal expenses should be decided on the basis of the following factors: a. Total income. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 5/3 b. Primary needs of the group. C. Individual needs of members of the group. D. Extent to which each member is willing to cooperate. E. Social values of the group. One should face the fact that it requires determination, courage, and self-control to live within the budget, but the satisfaction that comes as a result of the elimination of family squabbles over money matters, freedom from undue pressure of individual demands, increased cooperativeness of family members will repay for the effort involved in the form of peace of mind, order in family living, and the more complete satisfaction of needs. We should not become discouraged or feel that we have failed if the budget does not balance the first month or two; practice will improve our technique. It will be of great help in guarding against upsetting the budget unnecessarily if the purchase of any costly article is postponed until the method of payment has been determined upon.