Vol. XXVI AUGUST, 1939 No. 8
EDITORIAL
A Golden Future
"IN the laboratories of today the future is being born." Scientists predict some interesting developments in their workshops that will intimately affect the life of the average man, adding to his comfort and increasing his well-being. Indeed, we may say with Dr. Millikan, "a golden future lies ahead". But he adds: "This is based on the assumption that civilization will not be destroyed by man's present or prospective wickedness, stupidity or folly. The most burning and uncertain situation about the future has to do with social and political matters." He says he knows of no direct way in which science can turn some new type of ray upon human individuals and transform them from lust-filled creatures into humanitarians. This must be accomplished in other laboratories than that of the scientist.
A golden tomorrow can only be assured if the highly perfected products of science are utilized by highly perfected characters. The laboratories of citizenship?the home, the school, the church, and the community?must be as patient, tireless and intelligent in the production of fine characters as is science in the products of its laboratories.
"The youth of today is the citizen of tomorrow." Beginning life at a time when vast social changes are taking place, it must be fitted to meet the challenge of its day. The home, the initial laboratory, must recognize its responsibility and opportunity. It must realize that within its sacred precincts the basic elements of good character are most readily established. Here ideals which direct the course of conduct throughout life are most easily inculcated. The home should impress upon young people that the only tool they have to work with is themselves, and whatever tempers them to truer steel, whatever compels them to adjust their efforts to their obstacles is the best thing that can happen to them. It must help them to realize that persons grow big not only doing big things but also doing lesser things in a big way. It must teach them that they owe something to the world not that the world owes them, and that the world which lies ahead for them will be of their own making.
The future of our country has always been dependent upon the education of its young men and women?education which builds up a sense of responsibility to help develop a cultural civilization and a better world. Every child has a right to an education. This does not necessarily mean a university education, but rather a right to the education for which his talents and tastes fit him. Children are differently endowed, and if our schools are to adequately function as a laboratory for tomorrow's citizenship they must offer a curriculum which will provide opportunities for the varying aptitudes, interests and abilities of youth, and they must help each individual to see the need of his special endowment in the world's work. The present tendency toward trade schools and vocational institutes is a recognition of the varying educational needs of youth. Too many parents have felt that any kind of position in a well furnished office, even doing the most uninteresting routine work, was somehow superior to a job which required work with the hands. But the world is fast teaching us that it has great need for men trained to work with the hands as well as for men trained to work at a desk.
The influence of the church in moulding character must be felt in tomorrow's world. Its imprint must be seen in the deep-seated desire of individuals to do right; motivating conduct, it must function in making the Golden Rule a reality.
The community can best discharge its responsibility by providing opportunities for healthful recreation and constructive activities. This is important in making the youth of today the useful citizen of tomorrow. Playgrounds, libraries, recreation rooms, ball parks, tennis courts, health clinics, music centers, lectures, club activities, gymnasiums, art centers should be made available and their activities directed to meet the special needs of youth.
The work of developing a fine citizen is a big one. It is beyond the ability of any one agency to accomplish alone. But if each sees its individual responsibility and meets that responsibility, the citizen of tomorrow should be a superior one. In the laboratories of today the future is indeed being born. The laboratories of citizenship must not fail to keep abreast with the laboratories of science.
"MANY people have risen to wealth and prominence without giving any consideration to spiritual values. But history fails to record among all the outstanding figures of the world one who ignored the spiritual side of life and continued to make his influence broadly felt.... It is the duty of mature citizens to point out to youth the importance of spiritual ideals as a spur to lasting success."?"Spiritual Inventory," by Thomas J. Watson, Think Magazine.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER SEVEN
BY THE time Robert Lathrop had reached the bottom of Queen Anne Hill, he was of the opinion that Miss Brill hadn't supplied him with any evidence. He even doubted the evidence of his own senses that had first led him on this windmill-tilting expedition.
Standing in the shelter of the bus stop on Westlake was Nell Carey, her red hair in damp tendrils on her tweed collar with the mist of the slight rain that was falling. Rob drew up at the curb and beckoned to her. It was the Delavan hair all right. And he'd say to the court, "Gentlemen, I give you this perfect copy of the Delavan hair tint and ask you to accept her as the missing heiress." And the court would say mildly, "But is there a missing heiress? Nobody ever asked us to find one."
He said out loud, disgustedly, "And isn't it the truth."
"Isn't what the truth, my cryptic friend?" Nell inquired.
Rob did not answer. He looked at the girl and was confused at his own reaction.
"If I'd known you were coming to town, you could have driven in with me," he said, needing to make conversation. Then suddenly, as Nell sat near him, Sally Delavan's hysterical scream rang in his ears, "You're in love with her, that's what!" Was he? He stole another look at the girl, and his heart began to pound like a schoolboy's. He shook his head impatiently?pure suggestion, that.
"Look out! You'll land us in the lake!" Nell cried.
"Or in the lap of the law," Rob said grimly. "Sit tight. There's a boat coming up the locks. Let's make it before the bridge goes up."
Recklessly they dodged in and out of traffic and reached the middle of the bridge just as the guard came out to halt the traffic.
"I've always," Rob declared, "had an urge to stay on the bridge until it's completely up. Some day I'm going to do it."
Nell said promptly, "You'd roll off, of course, the minute it began to rise."
"That's so," he admitted, undisturbed. "Anyway, it's a grand thought."
"And once," Nell said, "I thought you were thirty-five."
"Did you?" he said, delighted. "I didn't think you gave me a thought of any kind. Miss High-and-Mighty in a green smock, stalking through the corn like avenging justice with a hoe in her hand!"
Nell laughed at this picture, and Rob laughed with her. Very gay, they were, aloud. But secretly each one was gnawing at a small tight knot of apprehension, hoping for the success of things hopeless in their very nature.
"And what," said Robert Lathrop, "were you up to in Seattle, if one may ask?"
Nell hesitated. "I was delivering my picture to be entered in the contest."
Lathrop's good humor dropped from him like a cloak. He scowled. "I'm sorry. You're just riding for a good hard bump."
"I don't think so," Nell retorted. "I know I'm no Whistler, but I think I have a fair chance to win something."
She understated. Really, she expected first place. If Rob but knew it, it was his own praise that had given her this hope.
"That's what I thought, once. Slaved away in college like an earnest little fool, spent a year East, worked in my dad's architectural office for two years, all to find out I couldn't even pass muster with a lousy little library," he growled savagely, stepping hard on the accelerator.
So that was his trouble! Robert Lathrop had entered a design in the Graham Library contest?and lost. Nell looked at him thoughtfully.
"That was just the opinion of a few people," she said gently. "You lost faith in yourself too soon."
"Too soon!" he echoed excitedly, "after seven years of it? That contest was all in the bag before a single 'contest' plan was sent in. I suppose you expect a man to be a second Jacob serving for his Rachel?start all over again, with a grin on his face, when he finds he's drawn a Leah."
"Something like that," Nell persisted sturdily. "Every person in this world who has done anything worth while has had to do it in spite of sorrowing friends who hate to see him make a fool of himself. If you are ready to go down before the first opposition you run into?the fact is, art takes time, and I'm willing to use mine that way."
And bend those straight little shoulders into a weary hump with fruitless years over an easel, Lathrop thought.
"Go your own way," he said morosely. "For myself, I decline to go back to planning old ladies' kitchens when I could create mansions. I prefer to go down to the Opposition."
Nell laughed. "And I may be making Dutch Boy book ends in ten years. Who knows?"
But in her heart she did not think so. There was success before her in a shining aura. There must be, for the sake of Aunt Brill's faith in her.
Rob looked at her cynically, as if he read her thoughts. "You are still so frightfully young," he sighed, "it's too bad you have to wake up."
They made him feel like a skeleton at a feast, these Careys, with their eternal optimism, their utter unconcern over their poverty. And that Ulysses thing Nell was always quoting: "To seek, to find, and not to yield." It would get past his guards yet.
"I'm having a wheelchair sent out for Miss Brill," he said abruptly.
"Mr. Lathrop! Oh, that's wonderful. I?"
He cut in, "She needs to get out in the sun," he explained. "I know," Nell admitted. "She ought to be down on the desert for the winter."
If they had the money, that's where they'd go, both of them. Art lessons overboard, forgotten, Rob thought excitedly. Get ready for another pitched battle, Sally Delavan, because I'm going to make it. This girl isn't going to be another sacrifice on the altar of second-rate art if I can help it!
Rob's eyes shone. He almost missed the car that passed them, a car driven by Fred Nagle, with the hungry-eyed Miss Lola Twillham beside him. Not too late, Fred glanced back and saw Nell and Rob, so that he almost ran off the road staring at the two in Lathrop's car.
Rob laughed, "Does he look conscience stricken, or is that my gloomy imagination? And he's driving so recklessly. Must be doing all of thirty-five."
"Poor Fred," Nell sighed, "I'm afraid I'll never understand chickens as I should. Miss Twillham is an inspiration to him."
"I've noticed that," said Rob drily. Why must a girl like Nell be put to it to choose between a moldy old palette and a dull, unimaginative chap like Fred? More power to the efforts of Miss Twillham, but he was afraid even Fred would have the sense to prefer Nell's flower-like charm to the mousy-haired Twilly.
"Do you remember your parents?" he asked Nell abruptly.
She looked at him quickly. "No. Why?"
"I?just wondered if the red hair ran in the Carey family," Rob said lamely.
"My father was not a Carey," Nell answered quietly, "I don't know who he was?nor my mother either."
"How did you discover that?" Rob burst out. Miss Brill had certainly not told her.
"An old man told me," Nell said. "It was torture for a time, but now it doesn't make any difference. Aunt Brill's been more than a mother to me. She mustn't know that I know. It would break her heart," she warned sharply.
"She won't find out from me," Rob promised, "and she certainly won't find out from?"
He beat in time.
"From whom?"
"Did anyone," Rob asked, "ever tell you how much you resemble Sally Delavan?"
"Do I? She's?beautiful, you know," Nell exclaimed. "Her picture was in the paper awhile ago, and Mary Kelly looked at it, then at me, and got quite excited. Do I really look like her?"
"Oh, she's not so wonderful," Rob said, and added hastily, "her looks are all right, but she doesn't measure up to them."
"Oh, don't say that! Do you know, I saw her once?at Maddoxes. She fascinates me. She's mysterious, as though she'd had a great sorrow in her life."
"She's had one, all right, but it's not the one she thinks it is," Robert said grimly. "Her biggest sorrow is her own selfish heart. She's had the cream of everything all her life, and she wouldn't give up a bit of it?even to a starving cat. That is, she thinks she wouldn't. She'll find out!"
They were on the last bit of road to the gray house. Nell was silent. She seemed to have no more to say of Sally Delavan. Rob told himself he was a fool to have mentioned her. What if nothing came of his efforts? If they succeeded, what then? Nell's life would be hopelessly confused by the claims of the two women, for if Sally once admitted Nell's identity, she would attempt to absorb her entire being. She had done that with others she had loved.
Said Nell abruptly, "You haven't wished me luck yet, about the picture."
Rob frowned. "You know what I think, but if there's any luck to be squeezed out of the whole dreary mess, I wish you to have it, with all my heart. End of the line. Everybody out."
And a good thing it was, almost ready to make some kind of fool of himself, as he was.
"NELL, I want to talk to you." It was Fred's voice, behind them. He was sitting between two closely-placed fir trees south of the house, in the little seat Nell had built there, waiting for the girl to come.
Nell flashed Rob a glance and climbed out of the car. She went over to Fred slowly and sat on an old stump some distance from the young man.
Rob was about to drive on to the old barn where he kept his car when Miss Brill called to him from the house.
"What is that contraption they put in the kitchen?" she demanded sharply. "Some impudent fellows walked in without so much as by-your-leave and left the thing here half an hour ago."
"Didn't you ask them?" Rob inquired.
"I did not! Do you think I want strange men traipsing into my room answering questions, and Mary Kelly not here?" cried Miss Brill indignantly.
"What did they leave?"
"It looks," said Rob, standing in Miss Brill's door, "like a chair for ladies of leisure."
"A what?"
"Common people might call it a wheel chair," Rob expanded, seating himself in the carpet rocker, "but?"
"Wheel chair!" exploded Miss Brill, her cheeks pink, "what do I want with a thing like that? I'm going to be up on my own feet in a week or two. Whoever had the nerve!"
"A weak-minded fellow who thought you'd like to beat nature by a few days and get around in the sunshine a bit," Rob admitted, twirling his hat and fixedly gazing at the portrait of the departed Tom Carey.
Miss Brill stared at him a moment. Her lips trembled, and she blew her nose vigorously.
"I'm?just an ungrateful old woman," she sniffed, wiping her eyes. "You know, Rob," she said damply, "I can see now why women are so daft about their sons. Somehow the things a boy does to please you?they're so young and clumsy."
"Think nothing of it," Rob said uncomfortably, and they both fell into a silence, in which Fred Nagle's voice boomed like a near-by loud speaker just turned on.
"and she thought you'd be sore at me?thought you'd think I was? well?interested in her," Fred said, "while all I?well, she does know a lot about chickens. Some of the newer ideas that have just come out."
They could hear Nell's slight laugh.
"Why, of course, Fred, I understand. Tell Miss Twillham I'm glad you have her to talk with. I'm so little help about the chickens."
"It isn't only chickens," Fred said baldly. "I took her to a picture, and we had dinner at the cafeteria."
"Oh," said Nell in a small voice.
It struck Rob for the first time that to her Nell's romance was not humorous. It was deadly serious. He jumped up guiltily.
"I can tiptoe out of this," he whispered to Miss Brill, "but you have to stay here and be an eavesdropper. Now don't you wish you were in your wheelchair?"
But Miss Brill looked quite satisfied. "I never thought that Twillham woman looked much like an angel?but you never can tell," she declared in a tense whisper, and waved Rob out. "Don't bank too much on Twilly," Rob shot back, "Fred's no easy mark."
"He's got to be, because Nell's such a goose herself; that woman's my only hope."
"Oh, I hope so," said Miss Brill.
(To be continued)
THE GREATER HAPPINESS By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign
My girlhood years were filled with dreams Of rising up to fame, To spend my time in study Till I had the world's acclaim; I'd strive to reach the topmost heights Of what I called success, And there, in rivalled splendor, I would find my happiness.
And so I studied how to sing, But then love came along, And listening to my eager heart I learned a sweeter song; It was the song of happiness That love alone can bring, The tender song of faith and hope That only mothers sing.
And sometimes now I dream again My dreams of long ago, And see in them a loneliness That now I'll never know, For though I did not reach the heights That once I called success, I found that only love can bring The greater happiness.
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
THE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded?a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine.
Prize winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates.
The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and closes October 15.
Rules of the Contest
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. Only one side of the paper should be used.
6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest.
9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15.
12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Magazine, A Medium For Growth By Dorothy Clapp Robinson (Conference Address, Magazine Department)
GROWTH, as I see it, is a lifting up to higher ideals, a reaching out to broader activities, an expansion of vision that develops sympathy and understanding. To what extent does the Magazine promote such development?
Years of reading and study have indicated five points of growth. While easily identified, there is no sharp distinction between them, for each unites with and supplements the others. These points are: Intellectual, social, creative, vision and spiritual.
INTELLECTUAL: To stimulate intellectual growth one must have mental food that is timely, instructive, thought-provoking and challenging. All material in the Magazine may be said to come under this head it is true, yet the lessons and a certain type of article especially promotes this growth.
SOCIAL: In this line the Magazine offers a great deal. The Social Service and Family Relationship lessons not only prepare our women to fit into community betterment programs but actually help prevent community delinquency by developing them into better wives and mothers. These lessons are excellent supplementary material for students of sociology. Articles on sociology and social legislation are timely and tied to our everyday living. The Magazine keeps us informed about the Church Welfare Program which, to me, is the most significant social movement of our time. Up-to-date information and instruction on Relief Society welfare work is also contained in the Magazine.
CREATIVE: What a world of opportunity that word covers. Did you know the Magazine is doing a unique work in helping to develop writers of the Intermountain West? It offers a sympathetic, understanding market, while in no way letting down the bars to admit sloppy work. I have been especially interested in the growth of poets in the Church as evidenced by the Eliza R. Snow poetry contest. Some of our poets are taking a place among the outstanding poets of the nation.
While not much space is devoted to art, the make-up of the Magazine is a work of art. The paper is easy on tired eyes. The type is easily read by young and old. The art reproduced is of the highest type and fosters an appreciation of the same. I especially like the illustrated poems used as frontispieces. The love and knowledge of music is being definitely fostered in the wards and stakes by the illustrations of and notes about the Singing Mothers as well as by the Music Department proper.
So much for the finer arts. In the interest of creative work done with the hands there is no end of suggestions: Fancywork, remodeling hints, recipes, illustrations, gardening, notes on Mormon Handicraft and Deseret Industries. Every issue contains something along these lines. The articles on nutrition have a money value for any homemaker. This point of growth appeals to a wide range of readers, from the weaver of words to the cook.
What is VISION? To me it is seeing beyond present obstacles to future opportunity. It is finding new ways to present old material. It is having faith in the future in spite of present discouragement. A prophet said that without it the people perish. Certainly growth is the result of vision. Unless its officers have vision Relief Society can never accomplish that for which it was organized.
The Magazine broadens the vision of Relief Society officers. To agents and membership coordinators the use of the Magazine is imperative. How can they transmit a vision of the work without it? To tell all the essential features of Relief Society would take more time than any one woman has to spare. A magazine can tell it in odd moments over a period of time.
Husbands, through the Magazine, may get a vision of the power and scope of Relief Society. Too often their knowledge of it is limited to the work done by their wives. Given understanding they will give their support more freely.
Bishops who need a comprehensive view of the work can find it here and can also find help in directing their welfare work.
Lay members find many avenues of development in the pages of the Magazine. Through it they may contact the minds and personalities of the General Board. They may read about other women and thus make their own problems easier to solve. They may find out what is going on in the wards, stakes, and missions and gain a viewpoint that cannot be obtained from attendance at meetings alone. A world view of Relief Society may be obtained?what it stands for, what it is accomplishing, its place among world organizations. This alone is justification for the Magazine's existence.
SPIRITUAL: In the teaching of children educators acknowledge two kinds of learning. The first is that which comes by word of mouth from the teacher or through books. The second comes by virtue of what the teacher is: Her poise, her voice, her ethics?in short, her personality.
The Magazine has a definite and dynamic personality. Greater than facts, more far-reaching than precepts is the influence of its strong, spiritual personality. It is around and about and through every line of every issue. To place one's finger on the reasons for this is not easy, but editorials, inferences, theology lessons, absence of questionable advertising, stories of people of high moral integrity, each has its influence; but the greatest reason is the spirit back of the work.
Here then is material?a ladder for growth. What is done with it depends on the individual. Certainly, if used, it will lift our women and our organizations to higher ideals of intellectual, creative and social activities. Vision will be broadened, bringing sympathy and understanding; when this becomes Church and nation wide, it will lead to a universal sisterhood.
Magazine Drive
STAKES and missions are again preparing for the annual Magazine Drive, which in most places is conducted from September 15 to October 15. The unusual success of the 1938 Drive forecasts another outstanding achievement in 1939. The Membership Drive, which has increased enrollment figures in practically every ward and branch, gives renewed impetus to the work of Magazine representatives.
Our Goal
The goal of the Drive is a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members?active, honorary and inactive.
Grouping
The same grouping for awards as was used last year will be in effect this year: Group A?Total enrollment of 100 or more. Group B?Total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive. Group C?Total enrollment up to 49.
Honor Roll
All Magazine agents reporting a subscription list equal to 75% or above of the net enrollment will have their reports published on the HONOR ROLL in the December issue of the Magazine.
Awards
To the four ward agents in each group obtaining the highest percentages, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all ward agents not receiving a bound volume but who obtain subscriptions equal to 75% or above of the net enrollment, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. In case the ward agent desires, the free subscription may be sent to some one designated by her.
Reports
The same kind of report forms as used last year will again be used. These will be mailed to stakes and missions. They in turn will forward the ward reports to the wards and branches. These forms are self-explanatory. Ward and branch reports are compiled and returned to the stakes and missions (not to this office). Stake and mission reports are then compiled from these and sent directly to the Magazine office.
We urge that stake and mission representatives see that reports reach this office not later than NOVEMBER 10, otherwise wards and branches cannot be listed on the Honor Roll, published in the December Magazine.
Percentages
Magazine percentages are figured on a basis of complete enrollment? active, honorary and inactive?as of January 1, 1939. This figure must correspond with that given in the Annual Report. It is requested that secretaries provide Magazine representatives with this information.
However, in some cases two Relief Society members live together in the same household as members of one family (for example, a mother and daughter), and only one subscription can reasonably be secured. In each case where this occurs, one may be deducted from the total enrollment (active, honorary and inactive) in figuring percentages. This figure represents the net enrollment. This does not apply to cases where two women use the same Magazine, sharing the expense of subscribing, but do not live together as members of one family.
Percentages are figured by dividing the total number of subscriptions secured (from October 15, 1938 to October 15, 1939) by the net enrollment.
Orders
Great care should be taken in filling out the orders properly. The writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent? the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. State the month when the subscription is to begin and amount of money sent.
Subscription lists with money should be sent directly by the ward agents to the Relief Society Magazine office, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Agents who are entitled to a free subscription should not list their names on the order blanks together with names of other subscribers. (Agent signs name as indicated on order blank.)
Executive Officers
We urge that executive officers be ready to assist in every way possible. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so, and their active support is a source of encouragement to agents.
HIGHEST commendation is due our splendid Magazine representatives and those who have assisted them. Theirs is a most valuable service. Through careful planning and devoted effort the Drives of past years have been very successful. The circulation of the Magazine has steadily increased. The General Board extends its appreciation and best wishes for a banner year in 1939.
ESCAPE By Afton Clegg
Oh come away with me today Where woods are still and green; I know a pool, so deep and cool, We never will be seen.
Forget awhile your dusty file, Oh leave your desk and play; The world won't mind if it can't find You for a single day.
MORMON HANDICRAFT By Nellie O. Parker
Highlights
Needles and pins, needles and pins, When a girl marries her trouble begins. There's dishes and doilies, cushions and quilts, And rugs for the floor if a home's to be built.
A hint is sufficient, enough for the wise, There's a shop full of choice and varied supplies; Mormon Handicraft offers the loveliest things To make the "Home Beautiful" where happiness sings.
THE business of homemaking is a very important one, in fact one of the most important in the world. Home implies more than just a house or rooms to live in and things to live with. The home should be the fountain head of true living and real happiness. It should be a haven, a warm, gay, loving refuge to its members. To be this it must be comfortable and usable as well as beautiful, and it should be built upon the rock of durability to stand the wear and tear of full living and long service.
Handmade articles of quality and fine workmanship help to build a real home. Their genuineness and potentiality for long service gives a feeling of permanence and stability. Their beauty and distinctiveness add character to the home and give a satisfying delight that makes them a joy forever. They administer to both the body and the spirit which is so essential to abundant living.
During the month of June Mormon Handicraft paid $836.91 to women for articles that were sold. The records are showing a steady increase in business, but the sales are not yet sufficient to pay all expenses of the Shop. There is a monthly overhead for rent, heat, lights, equipment, etc., which must be met if our enterprise is to be self-supporting and permanent. The General Board has been making up the deficit. The Advisory Committee feels that with the support of our own local people this very worthy project can be self-maintained. The aim is not to make a profit but to make just enough to cover expenses. The aim is also to give our women as much as possible for their work and still keep prices low enough for people generally to buy. Our prices are not high when quality and workmanship are considered. They are lower than machine-made articles of the same quality. They are more economical in the long run because our articles will outwear cheaper grades many times. Then, also, there is the good feeling that comes from loyalty to home people and home projects.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini Composer of Inflammatus By Janet M. Thompson
AMONG the many lovely musical numbers used by the Relief Society Singing Mothers perhaps no one composition holds greater general interest than Rossini's Inflammatus. The popularity of this number may be attributed to the fact that it not only affords excellent opportunity for combined solo and chorus work, but it also provides a particular type of melody that immediately engages the attention of its listeners.
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini was born in Pesaro, Feb. 29, 1792, the only child of Giuseppe Rossini. At a very early age he displayed marked musical talent. He first learned to play a harpsichord. Under the tutelage of Angelo Tesei he soon learned to read, to accompany and to sing well enough to take solos in church. When about 10 years of age, Chevalier Giusti, commanding engineer of Bologna, became very much interested in Rossini. He read and explained the Italian poets to him and helped him to comprehend the possibilities of his inborn talent and the ideals he should strive for, and it was due to the efforts of this distinguished gentleman that Rossini owed the stimulation of his genius.
He produced his first opera when 18 years of age. Between 1815 and 1823 twenty others had been produced. His friends at one time disputed as to which was his best opera and appealed to him for an opinion. Rossini said, "You want to know which of my works I like best?Don Giovanni." Perhaps this opera is not so familiar to Americans as Barber of Seville. This latter opera was written in 13 days?an incredible feat.
His position among the world's greatest composers has been much discussed. His happy disposition and light-hearted manner have been used as arguments against classing him with such profound composers as Mozart and Beethoven. However, we do know that Rossini's melodies are conspicuous for great sweetness. His compositions were intended to please the public for whom he wrote, and they fulfilled their mission.
"Rossini possessed genius of an extraordinary character, yet many are inclined to believe that his inventive faculties were confined within quite measured limits. In spite of all this there can be no doubt that his compositions form a memorable epoch in the history of musical art." He died Nov. 13, 1868. He bequeathed to Bologna Institute an annual sum of ?240 for a competition both in dramatic poetry and composition, specifying particularly that the object of the prize should be to encourage composers with a turn for melody. He also gave the greater part of his property to the foundation and endowment of a conservatory of music at his native town, Pesaro.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund
Hollywood Stake
THE picture is of a grand Song Festival held by a group of Relief Society Singing Mothers, May 19, 1939. This delightful event was held in the Hollywood Stake under the direction of the Stake Relief Society. The Singing Mothers from Southern California, which included Hollywood, Pasadena, San Bernardino, Long Beach and Los Angeles Stakes, presented the very wonderful event as a climax to their season's work. The combined chorus represented 350 women. In addition to the beautifully presented music "Our Town," the Pulitzer prize-winning play by Wilder, was read by Mrs. Jean Spencer Farr. The choruses participated in this as numbers were required. The ensemble numbers were conducted by Mrs. Mary B. Jex, chorister of the Hollywood Stake. Following this delightful hour of drama and music, refreshments were served in the patio. The event was a memorable one in every particular and demonstrated the fine training and the spirit of cooperation which enables Relief Society women to do fine and artistic work.
Beaver Stake
FROM the Beaver Stake we are in receipt of a very fine account of the celebration which was held in the Milford Ward recreation hall March 17, the anniversary of Relief Society. It was particularly interesting that this date was also the 34th year of the organization of the Milford Ward Relief Society. The program was inspired by the anniversaries commemorated. A beautiful pageant which presented the history of the Milford Ward Relief Society as well as the background of the early organization was read. Music formed a very important part of the program. Refreshments were served following the program. The decorations were in keeping with the day.
Idaho Falls Stake
ANOTHER activity which has been a source of satisfaction and demonstrates the resourcefulness and ability of Relief Society women, comes to us in the report from Idaho Falls Stake. In addition to the excellence of the regular work which has been accomplished in this stake, a delightful report comes of the activities of the young mothers in the Family Relations group. Many enthusiastic young mothers have made great effort to join the group. The picture shows this class of young women. Many of these have small children and for that reason have not been as active as they wished to be in the Organization work. Between 45 and 50 young women were found really eager to join the Family Relations class and yet were so tied at home that they were scarcely acquainted in the ward. In order to permit these young mothers to attend, provision was made to care for their children through the establishment of a successful nursery. The young women who joined these classes feel richly repaid in the very important discussions held on family life. It has been the desire of the Relief Society stake board that the suggestions of the General Board in relation to the conduct of this class be carefully followed.
Portneuf Stake
THE great appeal of music in Relief Society is in evidence in all places. The picture is a group of Singing Mothers from the Downey Ward of Portneuf Stake. This organization has been a source of spiritual and cultural uplift in the stake. It has furnished music for funerals and for many ward functions. It conducted a very fine open-air concert which took the form of an Easter cantata. A sunrise service was held at 6:30 in the morning when an inspirational program was presented to a large and appreciative audience. The cantata, "The Thorn-Crowned King," the theme of which is the crucifixion and resurrection of the Savior, was given on the afternoon of Easter Sunday. The spirit of the occasion was emphasized and interpreted by the beautiful music and Easter decorations.
Summit Stake
A VERY interesting report of the activities of Summit Stake comes to the office. This stake has many obstacles to overcome, but the sisters of the Relief Society have carried on and have the satisfaction of feeling that their work has been successful. During the latter part of the year Daughters' Day was observed for the first time and was a source of great satisfaction to the sisters. At the closing Union meeting of the season the spirit of the Membership Drive was formally launched. The symbol adopted by this stake is unusually appropriate. It is that of a mountain, the summit of which will represent the achievement of the 100% quota in the Membership Drive. On the side of the mountain 8 canyons are indicated, this to symbolize the 8 wards of the stake. The mountain is barren, but there is a growth of evergreen trees at the base. As each new member is enrolled in the various wards, an evergreen tree will appear in the canyon where it belongs. It is the hope of this stake at the conclusion of the Membership Campaign in 1942 to see the mountain, clear to the summit, completely covered with evergreen trees.
The picture is of Echo Ward, one of the small wards of the stake. Two other wards have made an enviable record. A report from the stake states: "Echo is another one of our very small wards and had been without a Relief Society organization for some time. Late in the fall we met with them, at their request, and reorganized. They have done a wonderful work in spite of many drawbacks, which very small groups experience. Almost all of their members paid their dues, and quite a percentage subscribed for the Magazine. Only a few weeks after they started meeting, a very fine and successful bazaar was held. Their Annual Day celebration was a dinner party held at the home of their president, Sister Sarah Ann Richins. The table was beautifully decorated and the afternoon was so happily spent they feel they shall always retain the spirit of love and good will felt on that occasion.
"Upton Ward is our only ward off the main highway. It is composed of twenty families and is situated about ten miles east of us up in the mountains. During the summer it is a very beautiful valley, but during the winter the snow makes it rather difficult to go about. However, our faithful sisters go bravely through the storms and carry on their work most of the winter. Their Annual Day party was held March 17 in the evening. It consisted of a program, dancing and refreshments. Almost the entire ward population attended and had an enjoyable time together.
"Rockport is another small ward which began its Relief Society work in October, after being disorganized for some time. They were very anxious for an organization because they keenly felt the loss after having had one. When they began preparations for the Annual Day party, they intended to make it an afternoon just for Relief Society women, but some of the husbands wanted to know why they could not be included, so the time of the program was changed to evening; all of the husbands attended and had such a splendid time they wished there were two Annual Days each year instead of one. These sisters are doing a good work and have all but two women in the ward enrolled in their association."
Sharon Stake
THE office is in receipt occasionally of a copy of The Voice From Sharon. From this we learn of the fine work which is accomplished through the Relief Society. This stake has been very active in its health work and welfare program as well as in the work of its Singing Mothers. The picture is of the group who offered a very delightful pre-Easter concert.
The Touch of the Master Artist
Earth is a symbolic canvas Of artistry and bliss, I blot from out the picture The things which seem amiss, And choose to see the landscape Of blues and greens all mellow, Harmonizing the portrait Of humanity?my fellow. Brown, yellow, red, or white, He's the animation of the sod, The touch of the master Artist The personality of God. ?Lorine Hutchinson Lee.