[Vol11 | January 1924 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Companionship of Parents and Children Julia A. F. Lund]

the companionship of parents." I plead guilty to taking a long and circuitous route to reach my destination.

I have deliberately stressed the home as the greatest, most unfailing source of all good things in the world, but it is the workshop where human characters are built and the manner in which they are formed depends upon the relationship existing between parents and children.

The home can not be what I have in my weak way suggested it should be unless these relations are of the proper character.

Whether they are so or not depends, it is true, upon both parents and children, but much more upon parents.

They must do their best, most effective training before the child is old enough to appreciate what is being done.

Many a child has formed the habit of incorrect speech and has felt that handicap all his life.

Teach the little ones to speak correctly and to do the right thing.

The wherefore will come in due time.

I have said much, and yet have not even attempted to say how the home may be made to measure up to the high standards set.

Here a very real difficulty presents itself, for each home has its own problems and its own standards, but there are a few great underlying principles which must be observed if any degree of success is attained.

First, the co-operative attitude must exist between the founders of the home, this to be strengthened by every new member added.

It must stand upon the rock foundation of truth and moral purity.

The material conditions must be such that the inmates may at least live a normal life.

The great Master teacher said, "Man cannot live by bread alone," neither can children live by merely having their material wants cared for.

This is very necessary, it is true, but it is only a part, and so far as the mother is concerned, much the easiest part of her work.

First of all parents must be trying to be, or at least putting forth their best effort in, what they wish their children to be.

It is impossible for you to be an example of what you are not.

The only way to teach children the beauty and use in service is to teach them how, and permit them to render it.

"Oh, go away and leave me alone, I haven't time to be bothered," said a hurried, impatient mother to her little three-year-old daughter who was trying to help perform a certain household task.

Turning to me that mother remarked, "Isn't it a fact that children always want to help when they can't, and when they really can, they won't?" And I could but acknowledge the truth of the assertion, but the mental question presented itself, "With whom rests the fault?" The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain if, through their own neglect and rebuffing, the impulse is not encouraged and developed.

There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced.

Two fathers were discussing their boys of the same age one day.

One remarked, "My boy is the bane of my life, he can't do anything well, whatever he attempts he spoils." "That's strange," said the other, "I would rather have my boy help me than any other man I can hire.

He knows better than I do myself at times what I want done, and he is always willing to do it." A neighbor to the two said to me, "That is a true statement of conditions as they now exist, but I think I know the cause.

The one father has been almost a stranger to his son, he has never tried to teach him anything and he has no patience with the lad now because he does not know how to do things.

The other father has trained the boy since infancy, they have always been pals.

Before the little fellow could drive he was allowed to hold the ends of the lines, and as he grew older he was trained in the things he should know.

You have seen the results.

Our daily life is full of just such object lessons as these." If I had to suggest one thing in which I think we as parents are most lacking it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children.

I admit there are grave faults among our people, but the parents are quite as guilty as the children, and if we are going to hold our children and do our whole duty to them, we shall have to come out from our walls of conservatism and at least learn their ideals before we can hope to raise their standards to ours.

If you want your boys to read the sermon, you will have to read the sport page.

Even in this you can drive home some of the best lessons of life.

Point out to the boy (and at a certain age it has more effect than a sermon) that to become the champion of the world Jack Dempsey had to just about live up to what we have always taught in the Word of Wisdom.

Live with the children, follow their paths, try with them to read "sermons in stones, books in the running brooks, and good in everything." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness.

But at the same time make them feel that though the years may bring wrinkles and gray hair, it can never take from us the spirit, the heart of youth.

Know everything that claims the interest of your children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts."
As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise.

We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past.

They did their work and left us the splendid heritage we now enjoy.

Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship to train our children to appreciate this inheritance.

We may thus in our turn have an assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children.
NURSE COURSE?SALT LAKE COUNTY HOSPITAL
The Salt Lake County Hospital will open a new class for nurse students in January.

The course of training at this hospital occupies three years.

Applicants must be between the ages of 19 and 31, and of at least average height and physique.

In addition to board and lodging, pupils are given a monthly allowance of $15. Those interested in this course should write at once to the Superintendent of the County Hospital Training School, Salt Lake City, Utah.