[Vol11 | January 1924 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Miss Zalia Elsie C. Carroll]

Miss Zalia felt that here was a problem for her?a little problem like hundreds she had settled during her years in Blue Ridge. But there was no time to attend to it now. She would leave at five the next morning.
"Well, don't put it off any longer than is necessary," she urged as she pressed Mamie's bony hands "And when you're married don't let Joe's children run over you. I know you'll make a good stepmother, and God bless you."
When Granny Joyce hobbled up to say good-bye, Miss Zalia had another qualm. For years she had invited Granny and old Mrs. Walker and Uncle Patrick Davis to Christmas dinner. She knew it was an event in the year for them all. And there were the Thorne children, a little family of five orphans being kept together by the wonderful management of fourteen-year-old Margaret Ann. It was one of Miss Zalia's delights to play Santa Claus for them. And so the evening was filled with remorseful reminders that her going away would mean less Christmas joy to many of her old friends.
She was silent on her way home in the old dog-cart with Jerry and Maria, an indigent old couple who had started West two years before to join their son on a Wyoming ranch, and who had learned, when they were near Blue Ridge, that he had been killed by a broncho. Miss Zalia had taken them in and since then they had helped her on the farm and about the house and shared her home. As they clattered over the frozen road she mentally defended her decision. She had surely given enough of herself to others that she need not feel guilty for taking the good fortune beckoning her now. She had always given to others. There were the long, hard years of nursing her invalid father before he died?when she might have been chosen. Yes, there had been young men who had looked upon her with more than friendly eyes, even if she had never possessed the prettiness and winsomeness of Edna May. John Sanders and Ned Palmer she remembered had been more persistent than the others but in her decisive way, she made it plain that marriage was not for her while her father needed her. And after he was gone, her only cousin, Mary, had died when Lindy was born and Zalia had taken the baby. Lindy married when she was only sixteen and moved away. Miss Zalia had found herself so lonely at that time that she had willingly taken Benny and John, for whom the county officers were seeking a home. And a few years later, when Edna May's young artist mother had died while she was trying to regain her health in the country, every one had regarded it as the natural thing for her to go to Miss Zalia's when no trace of relatives could be found. Yes, she had given her life's best efforts to others. Surely she had a right to what happiness she could find in the years that remained for her. And so she finished her packing after the farewell party in the schoolhouse, and the next morning was driven by Jerry
[Front Elevation with doors removed]
[THIS IS DIAGRAM: A technical drawing showing the layout and dimensions of a loan closet for health centers, featuring multiple compartments and drawers for medical supplies, linens, and maternity bundles. The diagram includes labels for various items like irrigating cans, medicine chest, glasses, cups, clothing, bed pans, etc.]
LOAN CLOSET For use in Health Centers for Maternity + Infant Welfare. Design recommended by Bureau of CHILD HYGIENE UTAH STATE BOARD of HEALTH Salt Lake City August 1923.