that illiteracy has declined from eighty-five per cent to forty-two per cent; (11) the adoption of the Latin alphabet ? newspapers were ordered to abandon the old Arabic type and the publication of books printed in Arabic characters was strictly forbidden; (12) required teaching of the Turkish language in the new Latin script for all Turks under the age of forty ? certifications of literacy were demanded from all those who aspired to citizenship; (13) the publication of an official dictionary containing 24,000 words, strictly Turkish in origin; (14) prohibition of the teaching of religion in public or private elementary schools; (15) the equipment of local community centers, called Halkevis, as centers of cultural propaganda;
(16) the adoption of the metric system; (17) the compulsory adoption of surnames (thus in 1934 Mustapha Kemal Pasha became Ataturk by vote of the Grand National Assembly ? a name meaning "Father of the Turks" and Ataturk in turn hose the surname of Inonu for Ismet
Pasha, to commemorate his victories in the Turkish War of Independence); and finally, (18) as a definite "symbol of intellectual liberation," the abolition of the wearing the fez or turban, the distinguishing mark of pious Moslems. Before the advent of the Nationalist revolution, relatively few Turks concerned themselves with trade, commerce, and industry. The masses generally preferred to labor in the fields. Hence business affairs became a monopoly of the other racial groups within the empire, particularly the Greeks, Jews, and Armenians.
But the Turkish Nationalists are determined to limit capital, labor, production, and ownership as
far as possible to native Turks. As a result, through government aid and encouragement, a commercial middle class has arisen, the nucleus of which is a group of Turkish refugees from Greece. Commercial treaties have been signed with Russia,
Great Britain, Italy, and the United States. In 1929, the National Assembly voted a huge appropriation for a twelve-year consolidated public-works program, including railway, port, irrigation, reclamation, and highway construction projects. Infant industries have been stimulated through a protective tariff system. These include textile factories, cotton gins, sugar refineries, and sawmills. Within three years after the inauguration of this program, the
value of Turkish manufactures increased from $20,000,000 to $50,000,000. Leading Turkish exports include tobacco, fruits, cereals and cotton, with increasing amounts of mineral products, including chrome ore, zinc, coal, copper, antimony 
and petroleum. There has been a tendency in Turkey, in the interests of efficiency, to establish state control over a number of industries. Thus the government today owns most of the railways and a large portion of the merchant marine. It also has monopolized the production of tobacco, gunpowder, salt, and alcoholic beverages. But the rural peasant classes have not been neglected. The government has subsidized agriculture by the free grant of cattle, plows, and even houses to deserving families. Agricultural production has been encouraged
further by material reduction of taxes and by a marked reduction of the term of military service required of the peasant class. The keynote of Turkey's foreign
policy is peace. Recently at the world's fair in New York, Western sightseers were impressed by the modern Turkish Pavilion that was dominated by the statue of a man who symbolized the New Turkey. The man stood with one foot on the shore of Turkey-in-Europe, the other on that of Turkey-in-Asia. Underneath were the words: "Turkey unites Europe and Asia, in Peace." To date (1944) this claim has been made good. Turkey remains today one of the few important
neutrals in Europe and Asia, although on August 2 of this year (1944), the Turkish Grand National Assembly, upon the recommendation of Premier Sukru Saracoglu, broke all diplomatic and economic relations with Germany, an action which quite likely will result in war. This much is certain, if the New Turkey of the future is to function as a first-rate power in Europe and Asia, the government must play a shrewd and cautious diplomatic game. It will be necessary, especially, to establish friendly relations with Russia, England, and Germany, for each of these countries will continue to have designs on the Straits ?bridgehead of Europe and Asia-Russia in order to obtain egress to the Aegean and Mediterranean Seas; England because of her strategic interests in Egypt, Suez, India, and Afghanistan; and Germany, in order to revive her Drang nach Osten policy toward Mesopotamia. A strong, vigorous, dignified foreign
and domestic policy will be needed. Turkey can no longer afford to survive ? 564 merely as the "Sick Man of Europe." In 1934, Turkey with Rumania, Yugoslavia, and Greece joined the so-called Balkan Pact, which guarantee Security of respective frontiers. In 1937, Turkey adhered to the Middle-Eastern Pact
with similar guarantees with her eastern neighbors Iraq, Iran, and Afghanistan. Thus Turkey has become the link between two interlocking alliances, the Balkan and the Middle-Eastern Ententes. In 1925, the Turkish government concluded a treaty of neutrality and non-aggression with Soviet Russia. This was renewed in 1930, and again in 1933. Similar treaties were concluded with Italy, Turkey, and the United States. In 1929 and 1931 this developed into most-favored nation treaties between these two countries. Turkey has been active in promoting the movement for Balkan Confederation. As a result of the recent Balkan Conferences,
which Turkish delegates have always attended, two positive results have
been achieved: (1) the establishment of an Inter-Balkan (Turkey, Greece, Rumania, Bulgaria, Albania, and Yugoslavia) Chamber of Commerce; and (2) an Inter-