proper guidance of the child in this virtue is principally that of furnishing him with truth-loving, truth-telling parents. Susan Chenery in her helpful book, As the Twig is Bent, holds strongly to the belief that a mother should never tell even the whitest lie to her child. If mothers will listen carefully they might find themselves saying something like this "Oh, here comes Mrs. So and So, and how I look! Daughter, you answer the door and tell her mother is not at home." What can she expect of her daughter in the way of truth-telling? 'Twas Emilie Poulsson who said, "Truth is not a child's virtue, it is the supreme attainment of maturity." Parents who have learned through lorg years of experience, the value of truth, too often expect their little one to tell truth before he has learned how many a child on being chastened for lying, has; been heard to remark "Well, why doesn't someone tell me how: to tell the truth, so I can tell it?" He should be taught what truth is by* a gradual process. First, there must be a healthy home condition. If the family life is open and honest it will not likely occur to the child that there is any necessity for lying. Before he is old enough to learn truth, he must absorb it by being surrounded by wholesome conditions. Under such conditions, boys and girls will he wholesome as a matter of course. We have an excellent definition by Dean Farrar he says; "If you would be perfectly honest, never pretend to be doing what you are not doing; never pretend to have done what you have not done never be surprised into a concealment or startled; into a falsehood such manslaughter on truth always ends in; murder." But, besides giving the child a truthful environment, there has to be definite instruction in truth-telling. Begin by telling him simple, scriptural stories. Give many illustrations from your own experiences. There is nothing so interesting to a child as stories of when mother or father was a child. In telling these stories, do not always hold yourself up as a model of perfection, PERFECT GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 703 lest the stories lose their "twinkl” 'and become monotonous, or the child learns to brag. Let the joke come on yourself occassionally, it will introduce a sense of humor and show that you are not afraid of criticism. But never tell a story that shades the truth. A very efifective way of correcting a child or teaching a point is to appeal to his humor. When a child is corrected jokingly, if he sees the joke, quite likely in recalling it, he will corelate the joke with the correction and profit by it. Often, a child can be appealed to by the ridiculous better than by the serious side of things. For example: The story of the boy who stole the plums from school and eventually when on the scafifold convicted of divers crimes, bit off the ear of his aunt for not having corrected him for his first offense, that of stealing the plums. The very ridiculousness of biting off an ear, makes the story one never to be forgotten. However, care should be exercised in telling of your own imp,erfections, lest the child take license and think that he may do wrong because mother did. It has been wisely said: "Always present the right to a child, since he is not able as yet to find the underlying thought of a moral storv unless it is clearly defined." Many mothers think it is necessary to evade truth, or lie to their children concerning such subjects as Santa Claus or — The Story of Life not so it requires but to know your child; and your subject well, to be able to tell truth concerning any subject. It does not follow that one should tell the little child everything of every subject; be governed by age and conditions. A child's questions are a guide to when and what to tell, and if the clever mother always assumes the "listening attitude" she will kriow by instinct how to tell just enough and not too much. Always answer a child's questions in a simple, truthful way, not necessarially entering into lengthy detail. LIES OF IMAGINATION. These are not serious lies, and need not be corrected severely, though the mother must be alert to distinguish between an imaginative lie and a lie to deceive. Allow the child to tell all the make-believe stories he wants to, but it is very important that he be taught to distinguish them as make-believe stories. If he forgets to do this, the mother should help him every time to — remember "What fine make-believe stories you can tell, can't you?" Encoura,ge him to tell a story over several times insisting on accuracy of statement. LIES OF FEAR. Spontaneous lies of fear are usually told from fear of punishment after doing wrong. To correct these, do not ask search; 
 ing questions as: "Did you take your brother's nickel?" Rather work out the detail in your own mind and lead him to repentance, e. g. "I'm sorry you took your brother's nickel come and tell — mother all about it, perhaps she can help you out of your trouble." SELFISH LYING. When a child actually lies to gain some end, we have a serious condition which should nev,er be allowed to pass by uncorrected. After such a lie, the mother should take the guilty one into a room alone and have a good serious talk with him. Tell him how she trusts him and how no one will be able to trust him if he continues to lie. Parents should not be discouraged but firm in their determination to exterminate the lie. The mother's main duty in life, at this particular time, is to see that this evil is nipped in the bud. If necesary, punish. If she is alert to detect every lie and correct it at the right time, she may consider that she has scored a great success in his proper guidance. One of the greatest mediums by which a child may be guided, properly, in all subjects, is the medium of prayer, and especially in the problems of Fear and Falsehood. Teach him to talk to God what blessings are, and the source from whom they come; to be thankful for his blessings then when he has conceived the; idea of gratitude to God, teach him to ask God to help him in whatsoever he may need assistance. Tell him many times the story of the Prophet Daniel — how he learned to pray at his mother's knee, and how Godi answered his prayer of faith by protecting him from the mouths of the hungry lions. Teach him that he can learn how to tell truth, and that he can surmount all his difficulties through prayer in faith, and effort. Let the father, in leading the family prayer, pray that the children may learn to be strong, obedient and truthful or whatever his discretion may lead him to ask God for. In conclusion, let us call to mind the words "To thine own: self be true he loves truth best who to himself is true." ; Books to read on the subject: Virginibus Puerisque, by Robert Louis Stevenson, published by Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York The Mother Artist, by Jane; Dearborn Mills, published by Palmer Co., Boston; Book of Daniel; Psalms 15:12.