[Column 1]
		LUCY M. HEWLINGS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”

	Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, who died in this
city, April 23, 1901, was a very remarkable
woman; even in her early school days giving
great promise of talent in literary work and
was a charming companion and ardent
friend of her young associates.
	She was born in Petersham, Worcester
Co., Mass., Dec. 3, 1817, and was descended
from the old Puritan stock and possessed
those sterling qualities and distinctive
characteristics which have marked the pos-
terity of old New Englanders from their ar-
rival in America.
	Mrs. Hewlings, as she is best known
here, was married March 30, 1837, to Henry
H. Granger, of Hardwick, Mass., where
they lived afterwards and where their six
children were born. When the civil war
broke out her husband and two sons entered
the service as volunteers. Her husband re-
cruited the 10th Massachusetts Battery of
light artillery and was made captain.
Afterwards for gallant and meritorious con-
duct he was promoted Colonel on the recom-
mendation of Generals Grant, Hancock and
Miles. He served with great distinction
until October 27, 1864, when he was mortal-
ly wounded at the battle of Hatcher’s Run,
Va., and died in the hospital at City Point.
His body was taken to Hardwick, Mass,
where he was given a public funeral, and a
handsome monument has been erected to
his memory. The record of the Granger
family, which is the same from which Sarah
M. Kimball comes, says, “when Col.
Granger was wounded he asked his men to
gather around him that he might take them
by the hand and bid them good-bye and to
look out for the Battery after he was gone,
and to get Lieut. Smith, who had been
wounded, off the field if possible.”
	Henry Corydon the eldest son enlisted in
Company B. 11th Massachusetts Volunteers,
in 1861, and was made soon after first
Lieutenant. He was killed at the battle of
Williamsburg, Va., and buried on the field,
but his remains were afterwards taken to the
National cemetery at Yorktown. His
Colonel, Bromwell Granger, speaks highly
of his courage and said he once procured his
honorable discharge on account of his youth
and delicate health, fearing he could not en-
dure the hardships, but the boy refused to

[Column 2]
accept it and said when he wanted a dis-
charge he would ask for it. His death on
the battlefield occurred May 5, 1862.
	Another son, Louis Edwin, was also in
the Civil war at the same time, and was al-
so made Lieutenant Colonel. He died in
New York City in 1899, and is buried at
Hardwick beside his father. Col. L. E.
Granger came to Utah in 1869, and while
here married Miriam Decker, daughter of
Charles and Vilate Young Decker, and
granddaughter to President Brigham Young.
His two boys, offspring of that marriage,
are living here, and were with their grand-
mother, Mrs. Hewlings, during the time of
her recent illness and death.
	Mrs. Hewlings children were all dead.
Her eldest daughter died soon after the war,
her youngest son died at six years of age,
during the war, another son had died when
a babe and one daughter remained who
came to Utah in 1872 and taught school
with Miss Mary E. Cook in the Social Hall.
She will be remembered by many of those
teachers, pupils and friends associated with
Miss Cook in those days. She married and
lived in the East afterwards, where she
died July 29, 1880, leaving two boys.
	Sometime after the war, in the early
seventies, the widow of Col. Granger mar-
ried the Rev. George R. Hewlings, an
English minister, a man of fine family, his
father a member of the British Parliament,
who had been educated at Cambridge
University, England, and graduated first in
law, L. L. D., afterwards choosing the
ministry for which he prepared himself,
thinking to go out to India, but instead
settled first in Lincolnshire and subsequent-
ly in Yorkshire, his wife having died and
his children married he came to America,
and shortly after married Mrs. Lucy M.
Granger and they came to Utah, living in
Salt Lake City for about five or six years.
	Mrs. Hewlings was an ardent temper-
ance woman and for some years during her
widowhood traveled and lectured on tem-
perance and upon other subjects; she had
an excellent voice and fine presence, and
was well-informed on the topic of the
times; her memory was quite remarkable
and she was a brilliant conversationalist. All
her life she had written for newspapers and
magizines, both in prose and verse.
	She had been a great Bible student and
was devotional and intensely religious in
her nature. She was a great admirer of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and of Sister Sarah M.
Kimball with whom she became well ac-
quainted during her sojourn here in the
seventies, and she knew intimately in the
East, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Frances Willard, also Julia Ward Howe
and many others of the women whose
names are familiar to the public. Mrs.
Hewlings was a woman of very strong
character, and one who had seen much of
the world and kept posted on the vital sub-
jects of the times in which she lived.
	Mrs. Hewlings was 83 years, four months
and twenty days old at the time of
her demise. She retained all her faculties
to the very last, receiving letters from her
friends in the East and dictating to those
about her what to reply until the last day
or two before her departure from this life.

	“So—Through storms and darkness,
		Through great waters deep,
	Through the cloud whose black embraces,
		Hidden sunbeams keep:
	So He brings His chosen there,
	To the Haven safe and fair!

[Column 3]
		“So—Through fierce winds blowing,
		Through rough desert ways,
	Through long nights whose dreary darkness,
		Reaches o’er the days:
	So, He brings them Home at last,
	Safe from every stormy blast!”
							E. B. W.


