[Column 1]
PRIMARY SOCIABLE.
	The Primary officers’ held a special
meeting and social in the Templeton build-
ing, Saturday, March 20, 1901, in honor of
the retiring counselor, Sister Mary L. Mor-
ris, and also to appoint another counselor
in her place. President Camilla C. Cobb
presided at the meeting.
	After the opening exercises the roll of
officers was called and was responded to
with sentiments.
	President Cobb in her opening remarks
said this special occasion was tendered sis-
ter Morris to show our love and esteem for
her. She had always done whatever she
was called upon to do, and had been very
efficient in her work. She now wished to
resign her position as counselor in the

[Column 2]
Stake Board on account of ill health. It
would be necessary to appoint another
counselor, but among so many faithful
workers it was difficult to choose.
	Counselor L. A. Wells moved that Sister
Fanny Woolley be elected to fill the
vacancy. A vote was taken and Sister
Woolley was unanimously sustained.
	Sister Fanny Woolley expressed her
thanks for the honor conferred, and was
willing to respond to the call. Said she
felt her weakness but knew the Lord would
assist her to fill the position. Asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt it a privilege to
be with us on this occasion. Had known
Sister Morris for many years. She had al-
ways been interested in Primary work.
Her influence with the children reflected
great credit on her, knew she had the con-
fidence and prayers of us all.
	Sister Katherine Wells thought Sister
Mary L. Morris should be made honorary
aid in the Stake Board. The idea was
favorably received by all present.
	Sister Morris responded, saying: “While
my hand has its cunning and my brain its
power to act, I am going to work for the
kingdom of God.”
	A number of the officers expressed their
love for Sister Morris and regret at losing
her from the Primary, and also felt we had
been directed aright in selecting Sister
Fanny Woolley to fill the vacancy.
	Fanny Farnes favored us with the solo,
“O Happy Day.”
	Counselor L. A. Wells was pleased to
speak a few words in honor of Sister Mor-
ris. Referred to their labors together.
	Sister Amanda Done gave a recitation
entitled, “The Returning Summer.”
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt honored in
being with us. She loved all the officers
and had enjoyed her labors with them, but
was not able to continue her work in the
Primary. Spoke of her interest in the
Temple, and said that she desired to labor
there. Felt grateful at this expression of
love that had been shown her, and prayed
that God would bless us.
	A vote of thanks was then tendered Sis-
ter Morris for her past labors in the
Primary.
	Sister Rida Taylor gave a recitation en-
titled, “Trouble in the Amen Corner.”
	After singing, “Our Work and Our
Wealth,” and benediction by Sister Barrett,
the company adjourned to another room
where refreshments were served, and Presi-
dent Cobb, in a neat little speech, presented
Sister Morris with a handsome china berry
dish, as a token of love and appreciation
from her co-workers in the Primary cause.
	In response to a gift from the Primary
of a handsome berry dish and a very choice
bouquet of American beauty roses and car-
nations, Sister Morris said, “I value these
tokens of love more than gold and dia-
monds.”
