of to assist her, by kind words and charity.
If any one does a kind act let us appreciate
it, and we must be forgiving and long-
suffering and follow the example of our
Savior, and feel honored that we can do the
work He did. How much mercy He ex-
tended to others. We, too, must be merci-
ful, visit the sick. I realize how good it is
to be visited in sickness,” Sister Richards
related an experience of this kind to illus-
trate her remarks. “When the Prophet
Joseph was living we did not think much
of fine clothes but put a clean apron on our
children and took them to meeting with us.
Now we must have something grand to
take them in. Then it was different and
we were happy, but times have changed. I do
not want to weary you with a long speech.
There are many to hear from. I am glad
we have so many present, I know Sister
Zina will rejoice when she hears of this
gathering. May the Lord bless us all.”
	President B. W. S[-]ith said, “Sisters,
we want to obey counsel and be self-sustain-
ing and appreciate every good thing. We
must exert ourselves to sustain home indus
tries, especially the silk and be honest and
punctual and not neglect our Temple work,
that is one of the obligations we should
keep in mind, go there whenever we can.
I love to see the sisters come to the Temple.
And we want to build a house, we have
the ground given to us and we must exert
ourselves to get the means to build and we

[Column 2]
shall be blest and accomplish it if we are
humble and do right, and I bless you, my
sisters, with all the authority I have, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	President M. Isabella Horne, was glad to
see so many present. Said, “We know we
are doing a great and grand work, to look
after the poor and needy; and we shall
have a reward. This is a grand and
glorious dispensation. What has there
ever been like it? Think of the Lord Him-
self appearing to Joseph Smith, a boy, and
His Son with Him; and saying to Joseph
“This is my beloved Son, hear ye Him!”
And during all his persecutions and trial she
was sustained by an Almighty power.
How many times his enemies sought his
life in various ways, but were not permitted
to take it, until he delivered himself up.
But the Gospel must be preached to all
nations and gather in the honest in heart,
and we are doing our part in caring for the
poor, the needy, the afflicted and distressed;
we must be diligent in our work and seek
at all times the spirit of the Lord and pray
always.”
	Counselor Marilla Daniels reported Utah
Stake. She told us they had been building
two meeting houses, and granaries and col-
lecting grain and trying to fulfill all their
duties and keep pace with the work and
not fall behind in the race.
	President Lucy S. Cardon, Cache Stake,
said, “We are striving to do right and
keep the commandments of the Lord, fol-
low the counsel we receive and be indus-
trious in all the pursuits of life. We have 
fifteen granaries in our Stake and quite a
large amount of grain.
	President Lillie C. Page, of Nebo Stake,
reported that very new Stake scarcely two
months old, organized February 14, 1901
President Jane S. Richards attended the
meeting when the officers were called to
preside and gave instructions. Sister Page
manifested a desire to fulfill all the respon-
sibilities of her office, they try to keep up
with the good work of the society.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs, of Alpine
Stake, stated that their Stake too was very 
young, not yet three months since it was
organized. The president and counselors
intended to visit through the settlements in
the near future, they were trying to instil
into the minds of the sisters the necessity
of wisdom in all things.
	Sister Emily S. Richards spoke favorably
of the Woman’s Building thought it would
not be hard for three great organizations to
put up a handsome structure that would be
characteristic of women. It should be a
pleasure to do this that in years to come
our children would be proud to look upon
it and say it had been built by their moth-
ers and grandmothers.
	Sister Alice M. Horne in her remarks
said, “I see here more fine women than I
have ever seen before at any one time, and
hope to see our young mothers come for-
ward and join in the work.” She gave out
the notice of the Mother’s Congress which
would convene in the Assembly Hall the
following day and invited all to attend.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said Sister Rich-
ards said Ogden has larger congregations at
conferences than we have here. She felt
we ought to awaken the people to attend.
She then reported for the committee that
had been appointed to call upon the First
Presidency, and spoke of the land so gener-
ously donated to the sisters, knew all
would feel like helping. Referred to the

[Column 3]
first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, only nineteen members, and now
it numbered several thousands. Spoke
tenderly of Aunt Zina and how we missed
her presence, and also of President Cannon
having gone away to regain his health, it
would be a great sorrow if he should not
recover, hoped he would be raised up and
return home.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said a few
words, though reluctantly, but stated if she
spoke it must be of the things uppermost in
her mind. She felt that we needed a build-
ing of our own, and we should labor untir-
ingly to accomplish it. Said we sisters
had helped to build every Temple and
every meeting house in Zion, no one
grumbles about tithing, and she thought
the sisters should be willing and glad to
give to the building and believed they
would be richer at home if they would give
freely.
	Meeting adjourned till 7 p. m. Congre-
gation standing sang the Doxology. Bene-
diction by President Susan Grant.
	Evening session, President Jane S. Rich-
ards presiding. Singing, “Come, come ye
Saints.” Prayer by Counselor Annie T.
Hyde, of the Salt Lake Stake. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board addressed the meeting upon the
Word of Wisdom; the proper training of
the children of Zion; faith in the ordinances
of the Gospel and administration for the
healing of the sick instead of employing so
many physicians; kindness, charity and
forgiving each other. Thought we should
be exemplary in all things and by no
means go into debt, refrain from everything
that is not right. Spoke feelingly of home
duties and obligations and improving the
talents given us and adding to them.
	President Wilhelmina M. Erickson, of
North Sanpete Stake, said Sanpete Stake
had been recently divided and she had been
called to preside in the northwest of the
county. The Relief Society had not yet
held a conference, but we know that the
sisters are always willing to do what is
required. “We shall do all that lays in our
power for the General Building and every
call made, and I shall try to do my duty
always, I feel that I need instruction.”
	President Alvira L. Cox, South Sanpete
Stake, said she had not yet visited around
since the division of the Stake had been
made, but had sent instructions to each
branch. The sisters will be able to respond
to the call made for the Woman’s Building,
and when we have a place of our own we
shall not be subject to so much inconven-
ence in holding our meetings and con-
ferences.
	Counselor Hildah H. Larson spoke for
Jordan Stake. The president and counselors
had visited all the branches and found them
in a good condition. There were four
Relief Society halls and ten granaries
owned by the sisters. Sister Larson made
an excellent report. She had watched the
efforts of the women of Zion in various
directions and rejoiced in the progress they
were making.
	President Rebecca Standring said: “I
often think of the labors of the Relief Soci-
ety in Zion to feed the hungry and clothe
the destitute. And the teachers—none can
labor in that cause more faithfully than the
teachers. They are ministering angels of
mercy to publish salvation. The progress
now being made by our sisters rejoices my


(Column 1)
heart and to have a house of our own. Con-
sider what the Savior thought of the
widow’s mite and do not hesitate to give.
If the means is small, "where there's a will
there's a way," and we should persevere and
feel that when we come to Salt Lake there's
a building of our own to come to, that
should stimulate us to new energy. I am
thankful that we are to wait till we get
$20,000 before we commence building. I
have confidence our sisters will do their
best." The speaker referred to the meet-
ing house being built in Alpine Stake,
which the sisters were helping with. They
had helped to build the Provo Tabernacle
and spoke of the many calls and obligations,
but all a part of the grand work. Her re-
marks were excellent.
	President Jane S. Richards felt the re-
marks were just what was needed, and was
glad we had the land to build a house on,
and if we ever get a house the departed
will visit us, Sister Eliza and Brother
Brigham Young and others. What a satis-
faction when we go to the brethren and get
a word of comfort. We have labored long
and have done for all in need, both saint
and sinner, rich and poor and every living
thing; and angels will visit us, and what a
consolation it will be to have a building for
the mothers of Israel, and then after the
storms and so on, we could perhaps have a 
conference in midsummer, about the middle
of June. We have tried two or three times
and have not yet succeeded," Sister Rich-
ards made further explanations in reference
to the proposed conference in June of this
year.
	Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake Stake,
said they had very few poor, but when-
ever there is a case of sickness and distress
all are ready to respond and do all in their
power to alleviate sorrow or suffering. Our
sisters are liberal in giving. We have
about one hundred dollars to appropriate to
the Woman's Building. There were ques-
tions by Sister Hart, which were satisfac-
torily answered by President Richards.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few
words about the house, explained the ar-
rangement of the basement, kitchens
pantries, dining rooms or banqueting hall
cooking utensils, etc. She thought every
woman who could should give a dollar, the
sisters would never feel it. Sister Smith
wanted the house to be completed by her
birthday in May 1902, so we could cele-
brate her 80th anniversary there.
	President Susan Grant spoke upon union
and love and diligence in attending meet-
ings and in all things, and seeking for the
Holy Spirit, bore a good testimony of
Joseph the Prophet.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, ex-
plained concerning the Woman's Building,
the ten cent fund and the annual dues and
some other practical matters, and spoke of
the magnitude of the Relief Society, its
marvelous growth and called it the best
woman's organization in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the Building
Fund treasurer, bore her testimony and
made some excellent remarks, said she ap-
preciated and enjoyed the work of the
Relief Society.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt rejoiced in the
grand work we were doing, appreciated its
benefits to the world. Said it had been one
of our ambitions to build this house now
talked of, thought it would not take long
money would be sure to come in, we could
soon get what we needed. "Sister Smith

(Column 2)
wants the house finished next year so we
can celebrate her birthday there, and it will
be sixty years since the Relief Society was
organized. "I believe it can be done if we
will all have faith and persevere in our 
efforts.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, told us of the South and that the
early fruit had all been killed for this year.
Made powerful remarks in regard to teach-
ing our children and the consequences of
neglecting their moral and spiritual educa-
tion, we have good institutions for our chil-
dren.
	President Richards adjourned the confer-
ence until some time in June, notice to be
given later. Singing, "The Spirit of God."
Benediction by Sister E. B. Wells.
		E. B. Wells, General Secretary.


