have done.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth said as 
the home is incomplete without the mother,
so the Relief Society is not perfect without
the brethren. She was proud to know the
pioneer men and women of this country.
Always had an interest in Relief Society
work, for it was established by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Spoke of the General
Building to be erected for the use of the
sisters. Thought we had one of the finest
sites in Salt Lake City.
	Brother Geo. Cunningham encouraged
the sisters in their work of relieving suffer-
ing humanity. Referred to the widow
who cast in two mites. It is the little
things that count, but these sisters are
doing a great work.
	Sister Harriet Jacobs said the Lord was
always willing to bless His children. We
have had a feast today in answer to prayer-
If we could realize our true position we
would never willingly stay away from
meeting. The Lord blesses his people.
We want our sons and daughters to go
forth and help to spread the Gospel. Spoke
of the blessing of paying tithing and desired
to stimulate the sisters to do their duty.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
	Sister Annie S. Hindley said we are
God’s children and it is necessary that we
have trials. We must make sacrifices if we
expect to receive the blessings. Let us be
humble before the Lord, and do all the good
we can.
	Sister Zina Chipman was pleased to be
numbered with the Relief Society, and de-
sired to perform every duty required of her.
	Sister Laura Cutler said we had a great
work, not only in our own households, but
in the community where we live. Let us
do something to bless mankind and to im-
prove ourselves.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said we
form good resolutions in these meetings,
but when we go away we are apt to forget
them. It is necessary for us to be work-
ing constantly to keep us in line. When
we have responsible positions we become
brightened.
	President Jas H. Clark said here may be
found the spiritual backbone of the com-
munity. I believe the sisters a great in-
fluence in the Church, and in the progress
of the work of the Lord. “Sisters, you are
acknowledged of God. Your responsibili-
ties are no less than those of the brethren
and are no less recorded in heaven.”
	Brother Wm. Webb felt to congratulate
the sisters on the good advice and instruc-
tion they had received. We need to labor
as a unit in these things. Let us wake up
and do our duty and attend our meetings.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
closing remarks. Felt grateful to the
speakers, and also to the “Old Folks’

[Column 3]
Choir,” who had attended and cheered us
with sweet music. 
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Wm.
Grant. Conference adjourned for three
months.
