QUEEN VICTORIA.
	Queen Victoria was the only daughter, in
fact the only child of Edward, Duke of Kent,
Fourth son of King George the III. She
was born May 24, 1819. In her childhood
and through the early years of girlhood,
she was somewhat acquainted with the
trials of genteel poverty. At her father’s
death, her mother, the Duchess of Kent,
and her young daughter, Victoria, Eng-
land's future Queen, were entirely depen-
dent upon the bounty of her uncle for their
support, and for the education of the future
ruler of Great Britain. This support we are
told was not liberal, but rather grudgingly
bestowed, and our young princess was
therefore taught to practice economy in her
early life, which has doubtless proved of
great benefit to her since. It certainly
brought her into closer communion with
the greatest number of her subjects. Her
sympathy was extended very many times
by relieving the wants of the distressed.
	Those who had the privilege of her ac-
quaintance in her childhood say she was of
a very lovable disposition, kind to all, yet
firm in what she conceived to be right.
	Victoria was proclaimed Queen of Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, June 20,
1837, ascending the throne in her eigh-
teenth year. She had been brought up far
from the court by her widowed mother, al-
most isolated, shut off from royalty and
their customs. Although living in Ken-
sington palace, she was confined to the
rooms, grudgingly allowed them by her
uncle, not permitted the freedom of the
palace and its surroundings. The small in-
come allowed them compelled them to live
in retirement. She was almost unknown
to those even whose duty it was to announce
to the new queen her accession.
	The Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Lord Chamberlain arrived at five in the
morning at Kensington palace, where they
resided. All the gates were shut and it
was with some difficulty that they obtained
admittance to the presence of the princess,
awakened suddenly by their message. At
eleven o’clock the council met.


