[Column 1]
	Mr. Charles Greville, secretary of the
Privy Council, has related with an amia-
bility unusual to him, this first entrance of
the Sovereign upon her public duties. The
king died at twenty minutes after two a.
m., June 20, 1837, and the young queen
met the council at Kensington palace at
eleven a. m. Never was anything like the
first impression she produced, or the chorus
of praise and admiration which was raised
about her manner and behavior, and cer-
tainly not without justice. It was very ex-
traordinary and something far beyond what
was looked for. Her extreme youth and
inexperience and the ignorance of the world
concerning her, naturally excited intense
curiosity to see how she would act on this
trying occasion; and there was a consider-
able assemblage at the palace, notwith-
standing the short notice that was given.
	The first thing to be done was to teach
her her lesson, which for this purpose,
Lord Melbourne had himself to learn. She
bowed to the Lords, took her seat and then
read her speech in a clear, distinct and
audible voice, and without any appearance
of fear or embarrasment.
	She was quite plainly dressed and in
mourning. After she had read her speech
and taken and signed the oath for the
security of the Church of Scotland, the
privy councilors were sworn—the two royal
dukes fi[-]st by themselves, and as these two
old men, her uncles, knelt before her, swear-
ing allegiance and kissing her hand, she
blushed to her eyes, as though she felt the
contrast between their civil and their
natural relations; this was the only sign of
emotion which she evinced. Her manner
to them was very gracious and engaging.
She kissed them both and rose from her
chair and moved toward the Duke of Sussex
who was fartherest from her, and too infirm
to reach her. She seemed rather bewil-
dered at the multitude who were sworn,
and who came one after another to kiss her
hand; but she did not speak to anybody,
nor did she make the slightest difference in
her manner to any individual of any rank,
station or party.
	The Duke of Wellington was heard to
exclaim, “If she had been my own daugh-
ter I could not have wished her to do
better.”
	Victoria was crowned Queen one year
after her accession, her coronation taking
place in June, 1838. Some-months after
troubles arose over the Dominion of
Canada and Her Majesty resigned. The
Duke of Wellington advised the young
queen to send for Sir Robert Peel, who
formed a new ministry, but it was a Tory
cabinet. Sir Robert Peel readily made his
selection. The queen although offering
no objections did not hesitate to say she
regretted the loss of the Whigs, but
yielded without hesitation to the consti-
tutional rule which required her to part
with them.
	But when Sir Robert interfered with her
household, requesting the dismissal of
Lady Normandy and the Duchess of
Sutherland, to whom the queen was at-
tached, she could not see why because
their husbands were politically opposed to
Sir Robert Peel, that her household should
be broken up, and she declined to dismiss
any of her ladies
	As she was unmarried it was her duty
according to custom to make the proposal
of marriage. Prince Albert, her cousin,
was visiting her at one of her palaces, (I

[Column 2]
think it was Windsor) when she naively
asked how he would like to live there al-
ways? He answered that he would like it
very much.
	When the queen opened Parliament on
the 16th of January, 1840, she announced
to the nation her intention to marry her
cousin, Prince Albert of Saxe Colburg, of
Gotha. They were married at the Chapel
Royal, St. James, February 10, 1840, and
all England rejoiced.
	This marriage was productive of much
good. Prince Albert proved a wise
Counselor to Her Majesty, and he endeared
himself to Her Majesty’s subjects, because
of his love and kindness to all the people
of the realm. Their union was blessed
with nine children, five daughters and four
sons.
	Queen Victoria was of a very sympathet-
ic nature. She fully sympathized with the
oppressed. After a most successful reign
of nearly sixty-four years, during which
Great Britain grew to be the mightest
nation in the whole world, the good Queen
Victoria, like other mortals of less renown,
passed to the great beyond. She died on
the Isle of Wight, January 22, 1901. When
the news of her demise was wired abroad,
it sent a thrill of sympathy and sorrow
throughout the entire world.
	The greatest woman sovereign that ever
wore a crown is no more numbered among
mortals was the universal feeling in all
civilized lands She has run her course,
finished her work on earth and left a rec-
ord behind her that in many respects has
never been surpassed by any of her sex.
	She reigned successfully over a people
which like the Americans stands for liber-
ty, progress and enlightenment “Queen
Victoria was certainly the greatest sover-
eign of our century,” wrote an English
editor. “She was the noblest, the kindest,
the most devoted of women who ever sat
on a throne. Woman, yes it is that holy
word, heavy with blessings to most born to
this planet, which comes to the lips from
hearts in which it has long been enshrined,
as we stand by the dead form of our be-
loved queen. She was always so womanly,
so tender and unselfish; so prompt with an
arrowy word sped by wise and informed
affection; so just in her silence; so truly
eloquent in her speech; so steadfast in her
trust in all that is best in men and women;
so ready to take us all, helpless children,
wounded soldiers, broken lives and bruised
hearts, triumphant servants and conquer-
ing geniuses, into the sunshine of an
appreciative and compassionate heart.”
E. J.


