[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
	The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary
of our revered and honored Mother in Israel,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was celebrated
at the handsome residence of Mrs. Philo T.
Farnsworth, in this city, May 3, 1901.
	The beautiful parlors and library were
artistically decorated with flowers, flags and
historic pictures, the parlor and library in
sweet peas, the dining room in red and
white roses and carnations. The music
was by some of the best talent in the city,
Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C.
Lund, and the selections were from the
old masters. It was a great addition to the
delightful entertainment.
	Sister Smith was dressed in white and
looked the veritable “Queen of hearts and
homes,” lovable and motherly and alto-
gether charming. Those who received with
her were Mrs. Zina D. H Young, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr.
and Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth, Mr. and Mrs.
George H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and
Mrs D. R. Allen. Several beautiful young
women assisted in the dining room and a
few lovely little girls acted as ushers,
among them some of Sister Farnsworth’s
daughters.

[Column 2]
	“A Tribute to Aunt Bathsheba,” by the
hostess, Mrs. Farnsworth, was given be-
fore the program proper was rendered, re-
marks by Bishop Winder and Apostle Brig-
ham Young, and Mrs. L. L. G. Richards read
an original poem. Mrs. Thomas Hull sang,
“The End of the Way,” in a delightfully
Scotch way.
	The toast master was Judge William H.
King, late Representative to Congress,
whose eloquence is proverbial, and who
carried off fresh honors in this rather diffi-
cult role.
	Prayer by Bishop O. F. Whitney and the
first response to a toast was given by
President Lorenzo Snow, “George A. and
Aunt Bathsheba.” ‘Our Family,” John
Henry Smith. “The Old Home,” Clarissa
Smith Williams. “Noted Virginians,”
Bishop Whitney. “The Prophet.” Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith. “Father’s First
Counselor,” Brigham Young. “When Old
Friends Meet,” (poem) by Mrs. E. B.
Wells. “Sister Bathsheba in the Relief
Society,” by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, was
given by Sister Zina Y. Card, as her mother
had retired from the room. “Sister Bath-
sheba at the Temple,” Mrs. A. W. McCune.
“Childhood Reminiscences,” by Mrs.
Bathsheba S. Merrill.” “Grandfather and
Grandmother,” Mrs. D. R. Allen. “Great-
Granddaughter,” Mary S. Horne. “Aunt
Bathsheba,” Julina L. Smith. “Aunt
Bathsheba in the Ward.” Bishop Beatie.
The Bishop having left his wife responded
for him.
	The exercises were so varied by the
toast master’s original introductions that
the program could not possible seem
to have any sameness. A list of the names
of the guests is too long for our little paper
but suffice to say, it could not include all
Sister Smith’s friends and admirers, for
they fill these valleys of the mountains and
extend far away from here into other lands
and climes.
	Congratulations and good wishes were
simply showered upon the honored guest of
the day, her praises were said and sung and
the banquet was in every way desirable,
and the tables so arranged as to give all an
opportunity to see and hear. There seemed
nothing lacking in the management
of the entire affair, which owed
its success to the tact and artistic
skill of the two ladies who gave the party,
Mrs. Farnsworth and Mrs. Alice M.
Horne, to whom all the guests feel indebt-
ed for the great pleasure and honor of par-
ticipating in doing honor to one in every
way so worthy of our love and esteem as
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith.


