[Column 1]
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His infinite
love and mercy to call home our beloved sister,
Rosina Crook, who was born 1847, in Oberbruder,
Wurtenberg, Germany. She joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1893,
and emigrated to Utah in 1896. She was married
to Joseph Crook, who died fifteen months later.
She had been ill ever since and suffered very
patiently till death released her, the 17th of Janu-
ary, 1901. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. Her friends will miss her, still
to know that her sufferings are passed, became a
comfort to those who loved her, and that she is
now enjoying sweet rest.
				ANNIE JONES,
				ROSINE BOKI,
				ELIZABETH THURBER.
MARIA TAYLOR MCRAE.
	Maria Taylor McRae, daughter of Geo. E. and
Annie Wicks Taylor, born January 17, 1845, at
Spilsby, Lincolnshire, England, died April 19,
1901, with catarrh of the bowels, a patient suffer-
er for nearly four years.
	She first heard the Gospel as taught by the
Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, when four years old and eagerly awaited
the arrival of her eighth birthday to be baptized.
She, in company with her mother and Sister
Martha Little, now president of the Relief Society
in Haden, Idaho, emigrated to America in 1854,
remained in St. Louis a year and then walked
most of the way to Salt Lake City without a mur-
mur, only too glad to get to Zion.
	In 1862 she married Joseph McRae, son of the
late Bishop Alex McRae, and their life since has
been devoted to pioneer work. They lived in Salt
Lake City through the hard times, then went to
Charleston, Wasatch Co., where after five years
struggle in a new country, and they were prosper-
ing financially and had established a good home,
when the call came from President Brigham
Young to prepare for a mission to the South.
	Taking their lives in their hands and trusting in
God, they went to an unexplored wilderness where
the Indian reigned supreme. No pen can de-
scribe the hardships encountered or trials endured.
The company under the leadership of D. W. Jones
arrived in the Salt River valley in the spring of
1877, where they took out the first canal and
planted trees. In the fall the company divided
part of them (in whose company was Sister McRae
with Brother P. C. Merrill as leader) wended their
way to San Pedro valley, stopping on the way for
a few days at Tuscon. While there they heard
of the death of President Brigham Young. Ar-
riving at San Pedro they built a fort for protec-
tion from the savages, but as Sister McRae often
said they were not sent there to be murdered by
Indians.
	During the rainy season sickness set in until
one was scarcely able to wait on another. Apostle
Erastus Snow and party arrived in October and
found them in this condition. Apostle Snow as he
preached to a congregation mostly in beds, shed
tears and blessed the people and said the land
would yet be peopled with Saints from one end of
the valley to the other, which blessing in part is
yet to be realized, Sister McRae had strong be-
lief in this promise, and although her home has
been for the last eight years in the Gila valley, she
has expressed a desire many times to end her days
at St. David.
	Her constant desire for an education urged her
to gather the children of the colony around her,
and impart into them, free of charge, such knowl-
edge as she could give them. “All her lifetime she
longed to be obtaining knowledge and information,
and while in the home of Mrs. E. B. Wells, where
she lived three years, she manifested an intense
desire to acquire learning from books and from
obseivation, and the association of the good sisters
who frequently visited Mrs. Wells’ home. Mrs.
Wells’ little girls were very fond of her and looked
