[Column 1]
IN THE INTEREST OF PEACE.
	On May 15, 1899, a universal demon-
stration in behalf of peace was undertaken
by an international committee of women.
Through the indefatigable labors of this
committee numerous meetings were held in
eighteen different countries. The chairman
of the entire committee, Frau Margerethe
Lenore Selenka, Munich, reported the
results of this demonstration the peace con-
ference at its opening session at the Hague,
which took place on May 18th of that year.
	Notwithstanding the discouraging condi-
tions of the intervening years, and the many
pessimistic jeers at the Czar’s conference at
the Hague, it is certainly a matter for
grateful consideration that as a result of
that conference the permanent court of
international arbitration will convene at the
Hague on the second anniversary of the
conference. To celebrate this event, to
show that their zeal for peace, instead of
being cooled by wars and rumors of wars,
is only by these events excited to greater
ardor, the same international committee has
undertaken another demonstration by
women to be held on May 18th, 1901.
The demonstration will be simultaneous
with the opening of the court of interna-
tional arbitration,
	By the authority of the international
committee, including distinguished women
of Germany, England, Austria, Canada,
Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Hol-
land, Roumania, Hungary, Italy, Norway,
Russia, Servia, Sweden, Switzerland and
Japan, as the representatives on the com-
mittee in the United States, the under-
signed hereby urges women throughout the
United States to arrange for meetings, large
and small, in behalf of international peace
and arbitration.
	Wherever local councils exist, it is rec-
ommended that such organizations as they
include shoud take the initiative in making
arrangements for such meetings.
	In 1899, with less than a month’s notice,
there were held in the United States on
May 15th, in twenty-one different States,
163 meetings, at which there were reported
to be present 73,921 women. With that
precedent the same length of time should
enable the women of our country to double
the number of meetings to be held on May
18th, and to proportionately increase their
attendance.
	The taste of war which has been so bit-

[Column 2]
ter upon our lips should, and surely does,
increase the desire of women everywhere to
strengthen public sentiment for peace and
to increase public faith in the possibility of
ultimate arrival at a condition of universal
peace, where war will no longer be toler-
ated by enlightened nations more than per-
sonal combat is now tolerated by enlightened
individuals.
	Let all women to whose notice this call
comes feel the appeal to be an individual
one to aid in a local demonstration. 
	Where local councils do not exist
women’s clubs, temperance unions, educa-
tional associations and college leagues are
all appropriate agencies through which ar-
rangements may be made for local demon-
strations.
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
Representing the United States of America
	on the International Peace Committee
	of Women.


