[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
VOLUME TWENTY-NINE.
	This number of the paper closes volume
twenty-nine of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
and in June the thirtieth volume will com-
mence. It is certainly a matter of con-
gratulation for the women of Utah and the
surrounding country in this intermountain
region that this woman’s paper has been
kept alive so much longer than any other
woman's paper in the west that was
started about the same time, and indeed
several woman’s papers that have been es-
tablished since, have only continued for a
few years and have had to be given up for
lack of patronage.
	Our sisters and patrons should appre-
ciate these facts, and that it takes not only
perseverance but money to carry on any
enterprise of this kind, and now when it
has been kept alive so many years through
such very extraordinary efforts, surely
those who feel an interest in woman’s ad-
vancement will try to sustain it at least
until it is through the coming year, which
will make three decades. 
	The agents of the EXPONENT and those
interested in the work of the women of the
Church, and in the higher education and
elevation of women along all the many
lines that tend to the uplifting of the
human race, should feel it a privilege to
help maintain a paper that has done and is
doing  what the EXPONENT has for the
benefit of womankind.
	Looking back over the volumes of our
little paper on file one finds how largely it
has entered into every work and enterprise
undertaken by women, not only here at
home, the centre of women’s organizations
of the Church, but it has reached out all
over the civilized World, and sought to
bring before its readers the best work be-
ing done by women the world over.
	We do not any of us live alone to our-
selves, but every human being owes
something to others, and the example of
the women of Zion is and should be one
worthy of imitation, and it is by contact
and association through women’s great
organizations that much good is being ac-
complished; and much of this is done by
correspondence and literary efforts made
by such women as have the ability and
disposition to write, and to communicate
by means of the pen, the ideas and senti-
ments that help to enlighten the masses of
the people.
	Any sister in the Church who will take

[Column 2]
the time and the pains to look over a few
numbers of the EXPONENT will find so
much of interest that has found place in
its columns, that she would really feel it
worth double the price of the subscription.
As a reference to what women have done
here and elsewhere it is indeed a reposi-
tory, and President Brigham Young was
right when he said he wanted the women
to take the EXPONENT and keep it and
have it bound, for it would be a part of
Church history. It is a record of the
women of Zion, their work and activities
though comparatively few ever think of it
in that connection, and like many other
things the EXPONENT is not estimated at
its real value, because its outward appear-
ance is very plain and unattractive.
	It is possible for the women of Zion to
patronize it so largely that it could be
made much more desirable and a greater
interest taken by those who write for it to
enhance its value so that it may be a
blessing to every home and household in
Zion. The Saints do not have too much
good reading though the remark is often
made, there is not time to read the papers
of the day; yet it is a fact that many books
that are not beneficial are bought not only
in the city, but in the small country towns.
The first investment in the way of reading
matter should be home production, and if
it is not up to the highest standard of ex-
cellence by renewed efforts strive to help it
along. Certainly this people have the best
material there is for stories, verses, essays
and especially history there is no lack of
variety of which to write; nature has been
bountiful in its productions here. The
lakes, the mountains, the mines are all
rich in subjects for the active energies of
the student and specimens of wild flowers
are a treasure to the botanist and even bird
life here has been made a study by the
celebrated ornithologist, Olive Thorne
Miller. Those who dwell in this mountain
region, among the wild and picturesque
scenery, partaking of its beauty and grand-
eur, have a wide range for their ambition
if they but take into consideration what
lies all about them.


