[Column 1]
sible manner, and we must ask the Lord
daily what we should do to accomplish
this and to keep them from going astray.
There is much required of those who pre-
side and let us sustain them, and do all we
can to help each other. Let us have all
the union that we can and all the love that
we can. The Savior lived among the poor
and lowly. She believed He had a great
respect for the poor. We are all on the
Lord’s side. And let us live so that we
may belong to that tried people who will
get their reward hereafter. Advised the
sisters to keep correct reports, referred to
President Brigham Young who said the
women had been slighted, their work had
not been recorded, and one month before
his death he established quarterly confer-
ences that the women might be represented.
Urged that every member pay ten cents
a year for the general fund, the Lord gives
us all we have, and we should not feel this
a hardship, but give it willingly. 
	Singing, “I need Thee every hour.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth bore testi-
mony to the remarks of the previous speak-
ers. She was proud of the Relief Society.
Said women made but little advancement
in the world until the Prophet Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society.
Thought the reports given were very
creditable, and would be very glad when
our General Building was completed, so
that the sisters could have the use of it.
Spoke of her mother’s motto, which was
“Trust in God and fear no evil.”
	Singing. “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Harriet Jacobs.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock.
Meeting opened by singing, “Joy to the
world, the Lord will come.” Prayer by
Brother Wm. R. Webb. The choir sang
an anthem, “Heavenly Father, hear our
prayer.”
	Cedar Fort Relief Society was reported
by President Elizabeth Berry; Alpine, by
President Sarah Marsh, and Manila by
President Isadora Beck. The reports were
quite encouraging. The officers and teach-
ers all seemed alive to their duties and will-
ing to take hold of any work.	Nearly all
the Wards have granaries with a consider-
able amount of grain. Realized that
the Relief Society is just the place for
women to work out their salvation and
learn to rear their children to serve the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards felt honored
to see the brethren come to meeting to help
the sisters. Thought we were a blest peo-
ple, we enjoy each other’s society, and one
of the best things that ever happened to us
is to be organized in this society. Wished
the sisters would visit those who are tardy
and hold meetings with them.	Desired all
the sisters to be alive to their duties, and
no one should be neglected. Said she used to
visit twenty-five branches every year, visit-
ing will keep them alive. Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to be very energetic in visiting.
The Lord will assist us in our duties. He
will give us His spirit to aid and improve

[Column 2]
us. Let us respect the authorities over us,
and if we have trouble, settle it without
going to the teachers. Let us rather go to
the Lord, and He will help us if we are
humble before Him.
	Singing, “Only remembered by what I
