		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the 25th conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake, held
April 13, 1901, President Sarah Pope pre-
siding.
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great.
Jehovah.”Prayer by President Sarah
Pope. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sin-
cere desire.” Roll called. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	Bishop John N. Davis spoke at some
length on the good that is accomplished by
the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Sister Althura Collett was pleased to be
numbered among the sisters of the Relief
Society. Where are the sisters of this Stake
that there are not more at conference?
Thought all should strive to come.
	Sister Abigail Oaks said there were a
great many more temptations placed before
the young people now than when she was
a girl. We should teach our children the
beauties of being virtuous.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett thought there
ought to be more at conference this morn-
ing. We should pray for wisdom to be
able to counsel our sons and daughters
right, that they may become noble men
and women in Zion. It behooves each and
every one to strive with all his might to
help our young people in the straight and
narrow way.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing, “Where the voice of friendship’s
[column 2]
heard.” Benediction by Bishop John N.
Davis.
	Afternoon session opened with singing,
“Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, “O ye mountains
high.”
	Brother James Hacking said he realized
in part the responsibilities and burdens rest-
ing upon the mothers in Israel. It is
marvelous to think of the labor performed
by the Relief Society sisters. Brother Jos.
H. Gardner always loved to listen to the
remarks of the sisters. Thought the sisters
of the Latter-day Saints were more blessed
than any women upon the face of the earth.
	Sister Davis bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the Gospel and related some
of her experiences in the Church.
	The statistical and financial report was
read and the general and local authorities
were sustained.
	President Sarah Pope bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister C. A. Stringham said belief alone
could not save us, we should not grow
weary in well doing.
	Sisters Minnie Davis and America Orser
spoke a few words in regard to to the Re-
lief Society work.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction by
Brother James Hacking.
			Addie Longhurst, Sec.

