[column 2]
take care of her, she never has troubled about
me, its only because she's young and pretty,
but she can go if she likes, she'll be sorry if she
does that's all."  Hepsie heard it all. and she
felt keenly the bitterness of spirit, that would
deprive her of a little enjoyment, when she
was so much in need of a change. It was
not long however, until an opportunity came
for her to meet Miss B's. cousin, it was quite
unlooked for, and no one could have been to
blame in the matter but fate, and it proved
fatal to Mrs Harvey, as far as the friendship of
Miss B. was concerned.  After Hepsie's in-
troduction to Miss B's cousin, which was
purely incidental, she became quite familiar 
with the family, and Miss B. became highly
indignant, and one day burst out in her anger.
"If you like cousin Ann so well, you'd better
take up your abode there, you're no good to
me and I'm tired of your going backwards 
and forwards all the time, I can live without
you, but its very ungrateful, when you know 
what I've done for you, taking you in and wait-
ing on you."
	Hepsie could not reply, she was too deeply
wounded, her sobs and tears were her only
answer, and she resolved then, whatever the
consequences might be, that she would not re-
main longer with one who manifested such a
spirit.
	It was true, she had become interested in
Miss B's cousin, for she was a woman of great
faith and never wearied of explaining the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and of telling Hepsie
about Joseph the Prophet, and the days of
Kirtland, the wonderful manifestations in the
Temple, and the scenes of persecution through 
which the early converts had passed in Ohio,
and in Missouri.  All this had a peculiar
charm for Hepsie, and she felt her faith in-
creased and her spiritual strength renewed day
by day, as she listened to the conversation of
this good, devout woman. Finally Mrs. W.
knowing how unsuited she must be to her
queer cousin, said to her one day, "you might
have a little school here, a sort of governess
like, you would be your own mistress in the
matter, and if a better opportunity came,
you would be at liberty to accept it."  Hepsie
realized the great difference in the spirit of
these two cousins, one was full of zeal in the
Gospel, the other constantly finding fault with
everything, and she accepted the offer Mrs.
W. made, though she never mentioned any
remuneration except the privilege of a home.
	She dreaded telling Miss B., but it was un-
avoidable, and in the gentlest way possible,
she explained the matter, but her motives
were all misconstrued and finally when she
saw how useless words were, she burst into
tears and cried until she was really unfit for
anything. Miss B. was so very much annoyed
that she said so many disagreeable things, and
her manner was so offensive that it made Hep-
sie still more anxious to go where she could do
something to pay her way.  She was not in
need of clothes, and therefore cared very little
whether she earned money or not, for the pre-
sent. Miss B. wound up at last by saying: "I
took a fancy to you at first, and as for cousin
Ann, she's got so many of her own, big and 
little, she'll not trouble about you; but its just
like her, she came and took my sister Elizabeth
away once when we were girls, wanted her to
go out west to Ohio with her, tried to win her
affections away from her own family, and
you've always reminded me of my sister, now


