[Column 2]
municipal ordinance providing that in the
given city there shall be women to serve
without salary—well-to-do women, who would
much better invest their time in this manner
than to swing in hammocks and read story
books—to be appointed to visit the places
where women work, and to make official re-
ports to the city council.  Then let the work-
ingmen, who have the majority in every city,
demand that there shall be a fire-escape to
every building where there are wage workers,
instead of having them piled in there and
killed and burned as thoughtlessly as if they
were so many sardines in a box. Then let it
be put down as another section of that law,
that there shall be so many in a room of a cer-
tain size, and no more.  Why, in some places,
the girls are told that they must take short
threads, for if they did’nt their needles would
go into the eyes of the one in front!  Then
the law should provide that they should have
their lunch room, and not have to stand up,
huddled together like so many sheep, to nibble
away at their lunch; and they should have an
hour, and not an half an hour, at noon; and
that there shall be the best sanitary conditions
and conveniences.
	But the law is nothing unless you have an
enforcer. Let the women enforce the laws.
Let the men and women sitting in their clubs
and saying what a wonderful country this is,
that a woman can dress so cheaply, that the
sewing machine has made such a difference
that you hardly have anything to pay for
your clothes, and have so much more time and
money to improve your mind, know how it is
they get their collars and cuffs so cheap.  Let
them look into the wan faces of the women who
make these garments, and receive these prices
for their work!  Women are too good hearted
to tolerate all this, if they know the cause.
Bring them face to face with the workers, and
they will soon work up such a public opinion
that the hours and rates of wages will be
changed for the better.
	In order to get your minds stirred up by
way of remembrance, read "The Prisoners of
Poverty," by Helen Campbell.  When I was
in Boston, in the winter of 1888, I read in the
papers that some of the professors of Harvard
University had been having a great deal of
talk with a socialist. His name was Laurence
Gronlund.  He was a Dane, and those men
said he was the most sensible socialist they
ever met.  Many think every socialist an
anarchist, but here was one who was most re-
putable.  I had the pleasure of an interview
with him, and I was wonderfully interested in
his ideas.  He said to me:  "People generally
will not read my book, because it is dry, but
there’s a wonderful gifted man who has put
my book into a story, and the name is 'Look-
ing Backward.' "  So I read that; and Ed-
ward Bellamy, its author, says that from the
year 2,000 he looked backward to the year
1887, and saw, from that blessed and wonder-
ful time, the terrible condition we are in now.
He tells what might be done, as if it had really 
happened.  Of course there are characters in
the story, and there's a spice of romance and
all that; but it is to me a wonderful book.  I 
do not see why what is in it should not come
to pass. If all would say, “Let us have no
enmity, let us have no outrage, let us have
mutualism, let us have collectivism, let us
have arbitration, let us have co-operation in-
stead of the wage system, and let it come not
by revolution, but by evolution,"  I think it
might be.  The best part of this evolution will
be the little white papers dropped into the
ballot box.  That is the way it is to be done.
	Workingmen are reading the Testament.
They are reading and studying about the
wonderful character—The Carpenter’s Son.
They are reading and studying about His
ideal of brotherhood, and what kind of a


world we could make this if we set out on the
principles that He taught, and on the princi-
ple that He lived.  I am glad that they are
studying the temperance question, studying 
the woman question, and studying the New
Testament.  They are thinking whether we
could not make a heaven out of this world.
Let them go on, those men who find that it
is for their interest to have a great big trust
and a great big monopoly.  Perhaps the peo-
ple will some time discover that there are two
who can play at that game.  They may find
that the trust with "We Us & Co." for the
name, that such a trust as that might make
things go into a sort of brotherhood in this
country, and that it could be brought about
through the ballot-box  Only a country that
has Christianity could ever have ideas of bro-
therhood, only a country that has the broad-
ness and the sweetness of the Gospel could
ever care for such things. Bishop Simpson,
preaching in Evanston when I was a student
in college there, said:  "Boys, the very but-
tons on your coats you owe to Christ."  I pon-
dered on that a great deal, and I concluded it
was God’s truth.  Carlyle the great Scotch
philosopher, said, as he sat under the hedge
side by side with Emerson, the great American
philosopher, and pointed with his long finger
across the meadow to a church spire: “Christ
died on the tree!  That built the kirk yonder,
and brought you and me together."  So it was
Christ, who died on the cross, who put the
bright light into the earth that is spreading
everywhere.
		(To be continued.)


