[Column 2]
made the promise to Abram that in him and his
seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and in making the covenant with him changed
his name from Abram to Abraham, as contained
in the seventeenth chapter of Genesis, the Lord
said unto him. “As for Sarai thy wife, thou
shall not call her Sarai but Sarah shall her name
be and I will bless her, and give thee a son of
her,and she shall be the mother of many nations;
but my covenant I shall establish with Isaac,
which Sarah shall bear unto thee.” Thus show-
ing that the covenant was made between Abraham
and Sarah, changing both their names to confirm
the covenant made to them and their posterity.
	We next find that in the days of the Judges,
(4” Chap.) the children of Israel came to Debo-
rah, a prophetess, for judgment, for she was a
Judge in Israel, and through her the Lord spoke
to his people. At one time she sent for Barak,
the leader of the army, and said unto him. “Hath
not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying,
Go and draw towards Mount Tabor, and take
with thee ten thousand of the children of
Naphtali and of the children of Zebulon? 		
And Barak said unto her, “If thou wilt go with
me, then I will go but if thou wilt not go with me
then I will not go.” And she said “I will surely
go with thee, notwithstanding the journey thou
takest shall not be for thine honor, for the Lord
shall sell Sisera into the hands of a woman. And
Deborah rose and went up with him.” This
prophesy was fulfilled by Jael, the wife of Heber
the Kenite, slaying Sisera their enemy while he
was asleep in her tent. Thus through a woman’s
agency did the Lord deliver the enemies of His
people into their hands.
	Another beautiful instance is recorded in the
27th chapter of Numbers of the Lord giving
equal rights to woman. Zelophehad, one of the
heads of the families of Israel, died in the wilder-
ness, leaving no son, but five daughters. They,
being women of intelligence Woman Suffragists
if you please, stood before Moses and Eleazar
the priest, and all the congregation, and said
“Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he hath
no son? Give unto us, therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father.” It would seem
from reading the circumstance that even the
great prophet and law-giver Moses, was not
clearly certain upon the subject of woman’s rights
and privileges, for we read, “And Moses brought
the cause before the Lord. And the Lord spake
unto Moses, saying, The daughters of Zelophehad
speak right. Thou shalt surely give them a
possession of an inheritance among their father’s
brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of
their father to pass unto them.   *	 a 	*
And it shall be unto the children of Israel a
statute of judgment, as the Lord commanded
Moses.”
	Another instance where God called a woman
to fill an important position was in the case of
Miriam, Moses’ sister, In the 6th chap. of Micah,
in reproving the people, He says, “For I brought
thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed
thee out of the house of servants; and I sent be-
fore thee Moses, Aaron and Miriam.”
	Huldah was also another prophetess to whom
the priests and scribes came for the word of the
Lord.
	We have another beautiful illustration of
woman’s fortitude, courage and self-sacrifice, as
also her political influence, in the case of Queen
Esther. When the kicked Haman besought
Ahasuerus the king to have all the Jews, her
people, men, women and children, put to death
and to take their spoils for their prey, he said to
the king, “There is a certain people scattered
abroad and dispersed among the people in all
the provinces of thy kingdom, and their laws are
diverse from all people, neither keep they the
kings laws; therefore it is not for the king’s

[Column 3]
profit to suffer them. If it please the king, let it
be written that they may be destroyed, and I
will give ten thousand talents of silver to the
hands of those that have the charge of the busi-
ness to bring it into the kings treasuries.” So
letters were sent by post to all the king’s provinces,
signed by the kings seal, that the Jews should be
put to death. Mordecai, a prominent Jew and
uncle of Queen Esther, sent a copy of the decree
to the queen, and besought her to go before the
king and make supplication to him for her
people. She answered him that there was a law
that no man or woman should go into the king's
court who was not called, under the penalty of
death, unless he should hold out to them the
golden sceptre, and she had not been called to
come unto the king for thirty days. But with
characteristic faith and heroic courage she sent
word for her people to gather themselves to-
gether and fast and pray in her behalf, and said
she, “I will go in unto the king, which is not
according to the law, and if I perish, I perish.”
Her noble self-sacrifice was rewarded. She
found favor with the king, who held out to her the
golden sceptre, listened to her petition and
granted her request. Thus through her influence
her people were saved, and their enemies
confounded.
	When the Lord designed to raise up Samson
to deliver Israel from the bondage of the
Philistines, it was to a woman the angel was sent
and to whom instructions were given. She told
her husband, and when he also desired to see
the angel, he appeared the second time to the
woman, who called her husband, and he then
talked with the angel, but was afterwards afraid,
saying, “We shall surely die because we have
seen an angel of God.” But his wife exhibited
greater faith and force of character, and comforted
him, saying, “If the Lord wanted to slay us
He would not have received the burnt offerings
at our hands and shown us such things.
	An exemplary instance of woman’s wise counsel
and sound judgment being the means of allaying
anger and preventing bloodshed is recorded in
the 25th chap. of the First Book of  Samuel.
When Nabal a Carmellite, through his churlish-
ness had insulted David and provoked his anger
to that extent that he had determined to take his
soldiers and entirely destroy Nabal and all his
household, Abagail,the wife of Nabal,who is rep-
resented as a beautiful woman and of good
understanding, hastened to take a peace offering
and present herself before David, and with wise
and judicious pleadings assuaged his anger and
persuaded him to relinquish his purpose. And
David said unto her, “Blessed be the Lord God
of Israel which sent thee this day to meet me.
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou
which has kept me this day from coming to shed
blood.” Thus should woman’s influence ever be
used to avert evil and establish peace.
	We also read in the New Testament that many
women were fellow-laborers with the Apostles in
their ministry, and to whom they refered with
much honor and respect. Our Savior was a
great friend to woman when He was on the earth
and appeared to her and gave her the first commis-
sion after his resurrection,saying,“ Go tell my dis-
ciples I have risen.” Woman never deserted Him
in His hour of trial, but was last at the cross and
first at the grave, while His Apostles each went
their way one of them even denying Him with an
oath for fear of the multitude. But the women
were faithful and true.
	These are but a few of the many instances con-
tained in the Scriptures of woman’s influence in
public as well as private affairs. In presenting
these few items of history for your consideration,
I have endeavored to show that woman’s sphere
is not necessarily confined to the home circle.but
that her Creator designed her to stand as a fellow-
helper, to man in all the affairs of life. And when


she is permitted to take her proper place socially
and politically, she will remember the higher
platform on which she stands, and act as a magnet
to draw society and politics up to her standard
of morality, purity and honor.
	Mrs. Bancroft, of Dakota, was introduced
by Mrs. Kimball; she read a very elaborate
paper npon women suffrage, in a very sweet
voice and pleasing manner.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, made a short
speech impromptu, expressing his approval of
the suffrage movement, and giving his opinion
of woman’s political equality. His remarks
were forcible and inpressive, and will carry
weight in the right direction.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley then de-
lighted the audience by singing “Equal Rights
song” in her charming voice, so high and
perfectly controlled, floating out upon the
night air in its most silvery and exquisitely
cultured tones.

