[Column 1]
﻿she’ll take you away and leave me alone
again.”
	Little by little Hepsie was learning some of
the hard lessons of life; and all the time griev-
ing at night, even after a peaceful day, her
pillow would be wet with tears. Such a sense
of loneliness even in the midst of congenial
companionship. She never tired of hearing Mrs.
W. talk of Mormonism; but all the time deep
down in her heart, was the longing to see her
mother, though she knew she could not un-
bosom her feelings even to her, and the in-
tense desire to know the fate of her absent
one; she did not wish or expect him to re-
turn, yet she longed to hear of his welfare.
His last letter was from the West Indies, and
he had spoken of “roving on the the wild sea,”
and she intuitively felt he was out upon the
ocean, he had dwelt much in times past on
his love for the music of the ocean; and in
former days had written a song of the sea, and
called it “memory,” that he was very fond of
singing; and she also recollected her emotions
as she sauntered on the beach in the twilight
when a child, and the sort of presentiment she
had then, that the sea would be in some way
associated with her life; she dreamed of the
sea, and its “bounding billows;” and she
fancied she could hear its sobs, the echo of her
own, she longed sometimes to fly away that
she might listen to the reality, it would, at
least, be a sort of sympathy she need not re-
pel. In her calmer moments she knew such
a thing to be impracticable, and that hence-
forth labor in the great work-a day world
was to be her portion.
	She taught a few children in a desultory sort
of a way for a little time, and then was en-
gaged to teach a school in the eastern part of
the city, in a log school-house, and this time
there was no other way but to board around
by the week, but this was among the Latter-
day Saints. Once she had refused to do this,
but many things had changed since that time,
and this opening seemed to her providential in-
deed; another new experience.
	Just before Hepsie went away to teach the
school, Lucy Reynolds and her husband ar-
rived in Nauvoo, and rented rooms near Mrs.
W’s. where Hepsie was staying. Hepsie
found Lucy the same dear old friend, but
Lucy was terribly disappointed that she would
not confide in her, and in consequence of this
there was a temporary estrangement between
them.
	Lucy told her much of her mother’s affairs
and the anxiety she had felt on her account,
thinking to draw Hepsie out on the subject,
but it was of no avail. In regard to her
troubles she was as silent as the grave; work,
now she was better, seemed the best remedy for
both body and mind. Hepsie was greatly in-
terested in her school, she had some large
girls in whom she felt the deepest interest,
knowing how soon they too would be likely to
enter married life, and remembering her own
experience, she sought to instil into their
minds, moral truths, and impress them with
the realities of true womanhood. Her mind
was absorbed during school hours, but when
her tasks were completed she resumed her
accustomed methods of day-dreaming, and im-
agined all sorts of extraordinary things,
almost believing she should hear news of Har-
old, though she never made in quiry of any one
likely to know; in fact she had heard nothing
of the S—ys, Harold’s former partners, and
she was confident, had the Harvey’s heard
from him, they would not have communicated
with her. She was not in the habit of writing
home now, for what could she say; one after
another of her brothers, sisters and school-
friends had expressed in writing to her, indig-
nation against Harold, and denounced his
conduct, blaming Mormonism for all, and she
could not endure such reproaches; so she gave
