[Column 1]
powers of womanhood are consecrated to the
hallowed precincts of home; but, while they are
content to modestly shine there, they would in-
sure to their less fortunate sisters who have to
earn their own living, as well as to those who en-
gage in the contest from choice, equal chance
with men to obtain the comforts of life and the
rewards of excellence.
	In all my acquaintance I do not know of a wo-
wan who wants political office, but I do know
many who believe their sisters have equal rights
with men to strive for the blessings of life, and
who think that the quantity and quality of work
done should determine the compensation, without
regard to sex.
	We are seeking the elevation of woman,
morally, intellectually, socially, politically—in fact
in every way. We would not destroy or impair
a single womanly instinct. We would cultivate
and improve every attribute that forms a part of
perfect womanhood. We would not sow seeds of
discontent in any heart that now enjoys the sweet
tranquility of home, but we would place in the
hands of women who are battling among men for
existence, the ballot, to make them equal in the
fray. Intelligence, refinement, purity and grace
are first among the gems we seek. Equality and
justice are the watchwords of our cause. May
they find lodgment in your hearts and utterance
from your lips in favor of human freedom.
	More music by the band and Mrs. Martha
Horne Tingey, read in a very easy and grace-
ful manner, with a voice perfectly modulated,
clear and distinct, an able and effective essay,
written by her mother, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, upon Scripture women, proving
clearly their influence and power by practi-
cal examples.
Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
	In presenting a few of my ideas upon the
subject of Woman’s Suffrage this evening, I
desire to prove to the satisfaction of my hearers,
that it is not the Great Creator, our Heavenly
Father, who has placed woman in the position of
an inferior being, but it is the abuse of the power
that he has committed to her brother, man, that
has kept her back, and placed her on such an un-
equal footing. To do this, I will call the atten-
tion of this intelligent company to a few incidents
in Bible history, which will tend to convince the
unprejudiced mind that God, with His superior
intelligence is no respecter of persons, that He
created and placed His daughters side by side
with His sons, and both are equally responsible,
intelligent and useful in their respective spheres.
	When our Mother Eve was placed in the
garden of Eden she was for a helpmeet to her
husband, not his servant, and the same blessings
were confered, the same promises given to her as
to the man: and when she yielded to temptation
she was equally guilty and just as severely cen-
sured and punished as he, which would not have
been just,had she been a less intelligent and re-
sponsible being. Although Mother Eve has been
greatly censured for her disobedience, as the
text shows, it was only after she had become
convinced that it would make one wise, even as
the gods, knowing good and evil, that she had
the courage to partake of the fruit, willing to
suffer the penalty if she could gain increased
wisdom and knowledge. While we do not desire
to sanction disobedience, it is to her spirit of
progression that we are indebted for the opportu-
nity of gaining that experience and knowledge
that will enable us to return and dwell in our
Father’s presence. And the characteristics she
then exhibited have been transmitted to her
daughters, for to the true woman no sacrifice is
too great,no suffering too severe,if it will result in
good to her posterity and the elevation of the
human family.
	Later in the world’s history when the Lord

