		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen :—We
are here tonight under the auspices of the Wo-
man Suffrage Association of Utah. Although we
have been organized nearly two years, the objects
of the association are not generally understood,
and therefore it has not received the support to
which it is entitled. We hope that the exercises
and social intercourse of this evening may result
in a more perfect comprehension of this impor-
tant subject, that new sympathies may be
awakened and additional efforts made to advance
one of the noblest works of the age.
	The object of Woman Suffrage is to secure
universal liberty and maintain human rights—not
of women only, but of all mankind. Its funda-
mental principle is human equality. Wherever
any class of people are deprived of equality be-
fore the Jaw, there is a legitimate field for suffrage
work.
	Until recently we exercised the elective fran-
chise equally with men, and therefore did not feel
the need of suffrage organization. We did not
fully realize the value of this precious privilege
until Congress deprived us of it, and then we
wished for its return.
	We have allied ourselves with the National-
American Suffrage Association, whose object is
to secure the enfranchisement of all women. A
host of valiant souls are doing noble work in
Dakota and other places, while our proud sister
Wyoming has entered the Union today with wo-
man suffrage as the brightest star in her diadem.
It has been truly said that "this is the first genuine
republic the world has ever seen, the first recog-
nition in government of the great principle of
equal rights for all.”
	But, why, says one,do you want the suffrage?
Why are you not content to be “queen of the
home” and leave the political arena to men? Be-
cause past experience has demonstrated the un-
willingness of men to accord equal rights to wo-
men. Besides, there are thousands of women
who have never been privileged to wear the crown
of wifehood and who are dependent upon their
own labor for support. It is estimated that there
are over a million of unmarried women in the
United States and nearly as many more in Great

[column 3]

Britain. What must be the grand total of the
civilized world? It is largely for the protection
of these that suffrage associations are organized.
	Until quite recently,and long after the inception of
the suffrage movement, colleges and other insti-
tutions of learning throughout Christendom were
closed to woman. She was not permitted to
practice the learned professions, even if she pos-
sessed the requisite qualifications. During the
first half of the century, feeble rays of light for
woman shone forth from Troy Seminary and
Oberlin College, but not until 1865 did the dawn
of intellectual day begin to break at Vassar; fol-
lowed by a flood of light from Michigan, Harvard,
and other notable institutions, where women now
enjoy equal rights and privileges with men, and
merit alone, without regard to sex, marks the
standard of excellence.
	Today, the pulpit of our land sends forth words
of life and hope from woman’s lips; her voice is
heard at the bar of justice and its echoes fall upon
the highest tribunal on earth; she brings healing
to the sick and solace to the distressed: her brain
and pen contribute power and might to the press;
she is foremost as a teacher, and does much to
mold the minds and shape the destinies of men;
she forms an important factor in the commercial
world and her presence is felt in the office, the
store, the workshop and the factory. Who will
say that she is out of place in any of these positions?
It cannot be denied that she does her work well
and fully earns her compensation.
	So much has been accomplished without the
suffrage, how much more might be done with it?
Already woman has been raised from the status
of a chattel and legal nonentity almost to the
equality of men in property rights. Why should
she not be his political equal? She has ceased to
be a puppet and has become his companion, in-
tellectually as well as socially. Why should she
not share with him the responsibilities of govern-
ment? Her influence would be elevating and re-
fining, while the average of intelligence and edu-
cation of electors would be raised. She could do
much to promote the cause of freedom and pre-
vent discrimination against her sex. Her peculiar
knowledge of home and domestic life would prove
most beneficial in the legislative department of
the State. As a juror she would be both merci-
ful and just. Her devotion to the cause of tem-
perance would strongly tend to promote sobriety
and thrift. Her love of peace would hasten the
time when national differences would be settled
by arbitration, instead of war. Even though she
were not in office herself, the fact that she had a
vote would make the representatives of the people
considerate of her wishes and mindful of her
welfare.
	“Political equality means civil, social and re-
ligious liberty.” We can all do something to-
wards attaining it, if we will.  The glorious
achievements of the past are due to united effort.
Every name added to the the suffrage roll gives
prestige to the cause and is felt at Washington.
A few years ago Congressmen scoffed at the idea
of woman suffrage. The other day one of their
committees reported a constitutional amendment
providing for it. Of us but little is asked; let a
generous response be given.
	The fear has been expressed that such a
change in woman’s status would endanger the
quiet of home and create discord. The absurdity
of this idea was demonstrated during the seventeen
years that women voted in Utah. The same ob-
jection was once made against the higher  educa-
tion of women,but experience has shown that femi-
nine charms and graces are not lost by the study of
Latin and chemistry. On the contrary, learning
and mental discipline add system and competency
to the performance of domestic duties.
	The great majority of women do not care to
hold office or engage in public life. To them the


