[Column 2]
waters would go beyond their bounds, there
would be earthquakes, fire, and vapors of
smoke, men's hearts failing them for fear of
the things that would take place on the
earth."
	Some would say the Lord delayeth His
coming, but Malachi says: "He will suddenly 
come to His temple." Then a temple must be
built for Him to come to. What people have
built a temple but the Latter-day Saints? and
who are looking for His coming?
	In the last chapter of Revelations it is re-
peated twice: "And behold, I come quickly,
and my reward is with me to give every man
according as his work shall be." This same
Jesus that Peter saw go up into Heaven will
come again to reign on the earth a thousand
years, of which the Sabbath is typical, being
the end of the six thousand years of labor and
toil, the seventh thousand year comes in as a
day of rest, and there shall be nothing to hurt
or destroy in all my holy mountain saith the
Lord. And He will come as a thief in the
night, they will be eating and drinking marry-
ing, etc., as in the days of Noah, until the
flood came and took them all away. We the
Latter-day Saints have gathered out from the
world to prepare ourselves for the coming of
our Redeemer, we ought to be the most faithful
of any people on the earth, keeping ourselves
unspotted from the sins of the world, from all
its allurements, and whether we live or die,
we shall be ready to meet our Lord, as Paul
says the dead in Christ shall rise first, and ever
be with the Lord.
	"Now we beseech you brethren, by the com-
ing of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gath-
ering together unto Him, that ye be not soon
shaken in mind, or troubled, neither by spirit,
nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as the
day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive
you by any means; for that day shall not come.
except there come a falling away first, and
that man of sin revealed, the son of perdition."
Thessalonians II, 2nd chapter. 
	This we know to be true, as there never was
a time, when there was such a commotion by
sin and unbelief, because they received not the
love of the truth, that they might be saved, 
so strong delusion was sent to them that they
should believe a lie, who believed not the
truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
