[Column 2]
	Presidents, Peterson of Bear River City.
Mary Goodliffe of Snowville. Christine Jensen
of Mantua, each spoke a short time.
	Fannie Graehl: I feel well although "Aunt
Harriet" has left us, and I still have a desire
to do my duty.
	Sister Rowher:  I hope I may always desire 
to do my duty.
	Sister Johnson of Beaver Dam:  "I feel a 
desire to serve God, prayer is the key to Hea-
ven.  I rejoice in the principles of the Gos-
pel."  Asked the mother's to send their chil-
dren to the Primary.  Singing.  Benediction
by Olivia Widerborg.
	Afternoon session.  Singing;  "We thank 
Thee, O God for a Prophet."
	Prayer by Bishop Jensen.
	Singing:   O, my Father, Thou that dwell-
est."
	Emilia D. Madsen, read a Memorial to the
memory of our departed President, Harriet A.
Snow.
	Presidents Harriet Hunsaker and Dewey,
each spoke a short time.
	Bishop Tingey: It is a great privilege to be
a Latter-day Saint, let us be humble and pray-
erful, let us guard against evil.
	President Harper:  It behooves us to attend 
to our duty.
	Counselor Adolph Madsen, asked the
mothers to encourage their children to attend
the primary meetings.  We should make our
children our confidents, that they may feel
we are their best friends.
	Mary E. Snow:  We certainly miss "one"
to-day from our midst, although we would not
call her back.  The mothers generally enjoy 
their meetings, perhaps, when we were young-
er, we felt to excuse ourselves in being a little slack.
	President Rudger Clawson:  There is a good
influence in this room, and Oh, what an influ-
ence the sisters wield in the church and king-
dom of God, we felt we could hardly spare one,
and that was the president, she died very much
beloved and respected, she has gone to a bet-
ter place and would not choose to come back,
nothing greater can be said of any sister, than
"she has done her duty."  Use an influence 
with your children, that they keep the Sabbath
day holy.
	Sister Watkins President of the Fourth
Ward:  I feel the Lord has been with us with
His Spirit, we should strive to live and work
up to the duties laid before us.  I have been 
in this church fifty-four years, my parents laid
their bodies down in these valleys.
	President Mary Anderson:  The Lord says,
"if you love me, keep my commandments," if
we love Aunt Harriet as much as we profess,
then we ought to live up to some of her coun-
sels, if we try to perform our duties every day,
that is all that can be asked of us.
	Bishop Anderson:  There is a good feeling
and spirit, it is a glorious thing that we can
meet together in peace, to have the privilege to
show what we will do for each other, ourselves
and the kingdom of God.
	Counselor Olivia Widerborg:  We miss
Aunt Harriet, let us follow her example, she
was a true, faithful Latter-day Saint, living
her religion every day in her life.
	Sister Hardy;  Woman is not without the 
man, we should work in unison, administer in
kindness in our families.
	Minnie J. Snow:  Every day that I live, I
feel more the value of the Gospel, unless we
improve every opportunity, I am afraid we will
be weak, when we think we are strong.
	Susannah P. Booth thanked the sisters, said:
if we will work up to the counsels of "Aunt 
Harriet," we shall be faithful, we have always
worked together in unison and love with her.


Conference adjourned for three months, sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Benediction by Bishop Dewey.
				EMILIA D. MADSEN,
								Cor. Sec’y.
		   SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, June 19th, Pres. M.
Isabella Horne, Counselor Mrs. H. M. Whit-
ney, and Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Margaret Mitchell, with the Secre-
tary, Mrs. E. Howard, occupied the stand.
	Conference opened by singing, “Come let us
anew,” etc., prayer by Mrs. Margaret McMas-
ter; singing, “Do what is right.” Roll, called
23 Presidents, 8 Counselors. 2 Secretaries and
2 Treasurers responded.
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks,
in which she urged the sisters to appreciate
the value of the Relief Society, as it had been
considered of such importance as to be record-
ed in the Book of the Law of the Lord.
	The following branches were then represent-
ed: Mrs. Margaret Steele, First Ward; Mrs.
Ann McGregor, Second; Mrs. Frances Smith,
Third; Mrs. Celia Kirke, Fourth; Mrs. Ann
Brimley, Fifth; Mrs. E. Briton, Sixth; Mrs.
H. Woodbury, Seventh; Mrs. E. B. Fletcher,
Eighth; Mrs. Barrow, Ninth; Mrs. Jennie Mc-
Lean, Tenth; Mrs. M. McMaster, Eleventh;
Mrs. Julia Druce, Twelfth; Mrs. L. A. Wells,
Thirteenth; Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, Fourteenth;
Mrs. Mary Grey, Fifteenth; Mrs. E. Davis,
Sixteenth; Mrs. Emma Bull, Seventeenth;
Mrs. Hannah Wright, Eighteenth; Mrs. Ann
E. Neal, Nineteenth; Mrs. M. Sharp, Twen-
tieth; Mrs. Jeremy, Twenty-second; Mrs. S. J.
Cannon, Farmers; Mrs. S. Gibson, Sugar
House; Mrs. E. Stevenson, Big Cottonwood;
Mrs. Ann Griffith, Union; Mrs. C. Smith,
Draper; Mrs. Bodell, Herriman; Mrs. Mary
Dixon, Mountain Dell; Mrs, W. Olsen, Sandy;
Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan; Mrs. M. A.
Webster, North Jordan: Mrs. Mary Porter,
Granger; Mrs. A. S. Hirst, Pleasant Green;
Mrs. Jane Silcox, Riverton; Mrs. M. A.
Hazon, Brighton; Mrs. M. A. Mousley, Bluff-
dale.
	Pres. Horne made a few encouraging re
marks, said she thought we should all help
and especially some of the young ladies should
take hold and do some of the work.
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
doxology, benediction by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Afternoon session:	Meeting commenced by
singing, “Oh, my Father, Thou that dwellest,”
prayer by Mrs. E. Howard; singing, “Mid
seenes of confusion,” etc. The opening ad-
dress was made by Pres. B. W. Smith, in
which she exhorted all to be faithful, and to
prepare for the coming of the Savior, to be
diligent, keep the Sabath day holy, and to up-
hold the Relief Society.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon a
oneness of spirit, and of feeling, she sorrowed
for those who turned away from the truth,
knew they lost great blessings, felt the greatest
blessings followed obedience, knew we had a
great mission to fill; hoped we would all be
prepared to meet the Savior.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell, spoke of her desire
to do good, her appreciation of the blessings
she had received, thought it was time we
stepped forward and became acquainted with 
politics, that we might understand the laws of
our country, and know our rights and privi-
leges, and then we would be better able to help
fallen humanity to arise from their fallen con-
dition; knew that we needed the spirit of the
Gospel and faith to accomplish what we
ought to do.
	Mrs. E. McDonald of St. George, spoke elo-
[Column Two]
quently upon faith, patience and wisdom, re-
joiced in the Gospel, felt that there was com-
pensation in it for all our trials; gave excel-
lent practical advice in regard to bestowing
charity upon the needy.
	Mrs. E. Howard, spoke of her recent visit
to Grantsville, where she attended the Relief
Society conference of Tooele Stake; thought
many of the Saints were slumbering and sleep-
ing, carried away with the things of the world;
spoke well upon the saving of grain by the
sisters.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, made some very. good
remarks, thought we should always be able
to give a reason for the hope that is within us.
	Pres. Horne, spoke upon punctuality in
attending meetings, said we should not dwell
too much upon our trials, but prepare our-
selves for whatever might come, we should
get credit for the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good or evil. Spoke of her
interesting visit to Sanpete, where she had en-
joyed herself in doing Temple work, and in
visiting the Relief Society, “they are loving
and united there.”  Urged the sisters to get a
spiritual education, said in this respect we
have had the same blessings as our brethren;
we can have the same privilege and elevation
that they have; exhorted the mothers to teach
their children the principles of our religion,
and to live good lives, and set a good exam-
ple, told the sisters to try and get in all the
wheat they could this harvest, it would be
wanted, and to urge the members to attend
meetings, it would increase their faith, and
help them in good works.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said her labors had
been in the Relief Society for nearly half a
century; thought our young sisters should take
hold in the Relief Society and not let all the
burden rest upon so many old and middle-
aged, would like to see a greater unity in our
work; the Relief Society should help the suf-
fragists and they should work with the Relief
Society and young ladies, and all help mu-
tually for improvement. We should advise
our young people, try and keep them in the
paths of virtue, we should never do anything
we cannot ask the blessing of God upon. Ex-
pressed a wish to hear a woman read the
Declaration of Independence on the Fourth of
July, prayed the Lord to inspire us individu-
ally, to work in that channel where we would
accomplish the most good.
	Pres. Horne made a few closing remarks,
hoped all would think well of what Mrs. Kim-
ball had said upon the woman question, it re-
minded her of what the five fatherless girls
did in ancient times; in the days of Moses.
Those girls obtained their rights of inheri-
tance the same as their brethren; through in-
terceding, though Moses had to ask the Lord;
hoped we would have something to do with
government behind the veil.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, “We thank Thee, O God,” etc., bene-
diction by Mrs. Julia Druce.


