IN MEMORIAM.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Bertha
Greenwood who died quite suddenly at American Fork
June 7, 1890.
	Sister Bertha Eyring Greenwood was born June 12, 1839
at Saxony, Coburg, Germany, and came to America in
1853 and joined the Church in St. Louis in 1859.  She has
been a faithful officer of the Relief Society of this ward ever
since her residence here having acted invarious capacities
and always been on hand to do what was required of her.
	She was a good Latter-day Saint and a true friend to
the poor and needy.  She was also a teacher in the Sun-
day School for several years and has been a great comfort
to her afflicted husband during his long and painful illness
requiring her constant attendance.
	Sister Bertha has been subject to attacks of acute rheu-
matism for several years past and suffered at times very
severely. She had an attack of rheumatism on Sunday pre-
vious to her death which developed into rheumatic fever,
and the slender thread was snapped quite suddenly on Sat-
urday afternoon causing grief of the wildest description
among her family and friends.
	Therefore be it resolved,that we the members of the R.
S. of American Fork tender our sympathy to the afflicted
husband and to the children who are bereft of the care and
counsel of their beloved mother.
	Resolved,that we deem it a just tribute to her memory to
say that she was loved and esteemed by a large circle of
friends and associates and her sudden death is mourned by
all.
	Resolved,that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family also that one be sent to the American
Fork Independant and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication and that it be spread on the pages of our record.


Tho', hard it seems to part with friends,
	Yet we've the assurance given
That ties so dear we form on earth
	Will reunite in heaven.
				MARY S. HINDLEY,
				ELLEN D. CLARKE,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
				ORPHA ROBINSON,
				MARY B. ADAMS,
								Committee.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

