[Column 2]
them all up. In September her mother
would come, her term of school would close
the last of August, and she would be at 
liberty.
	Occasionally she scribbled verses, but
none of them appeared in print, except on one
occasion, some verses on Friendship she had
sent to a friend, had appeared in an English
journal. Hepsie was astonished, for she had
not thought herself in a condition of mind to
write, but it was true, they had been accepted,
and there they were with her signature at-
tached. Had she sent them herself, she
would only have given her initials, or a ficti-
tious name; however, she consoled herself by
thinking no one knew her scarcely, for she
was very modest about her writing; and afraid
of criticism.
	The weary summer months dragged along,
very little like that other summer, two years
before, when she had been so light-hearted and
full of expectancy. There were many rumors
of mobs in the outlying districts around
Nauvoo, and many actual disgraceful wrongs
perpetrated against the Saints, and work on
the Temple seemed to enrage those who had
arrayed themselves in opposition to the
Church. Hepsie had no fears or misgivings
when she heard of mobs coming almost to
Nauvoo and the threats they made of putting
an end to Mormonism, destroying the Temple
and so on; she felt her courage rise and al-
most forgot her individual troubles in those
of her people.
	Her school had closed, she had said her
farewell to the children, and had gone to
stay with Mrs. W. temporarily, looking for-
ward to her mother’s coming; counting the
days and the hours almost, weary of waiting,
when one bright afternoon, a girl came run-
ning towards the house; Hepsie was standing
in the doorway, repeating over to herself
“when will mother come;” the girl almost
stunned her with the news, “your mother has
arrived, she is at Br. P’s. and wants you to
come immediately.” Hepsie fairly flew over
the ground in her excitement, and at sight of
her mother as she crossed the threshold she
fainted dead away; when she came to herself,
she knew it was the tumult of recollections
that crowded upon her brain, at sight of her
mother’s face that had overwhelmed her and
overpowered her. The meeting was an embar-
rassing one after all, much as Hepsie had cal-
culated upon it, bringing up the trying ordeals
through which Hepsie had passed since leaving
her chidhood’s home, the baby’s birth and
death, the sorrow of that time and what fol-
lowed. Then Mrs. Hathaway had many
questions to ask relative to the situation in
Nauvoo, aud poor little Hepsie had to act as
sort of guide and instructor to her mother;
everything was so different to New England
ways, habits and customs, and Mrs. Hathaway
though well acquainted with the theory of her
religion, knew very little of the practical side,
such as one learns by coming in contact with
those of the faith in the daily associations of
life. But Mrs. H. had her religion at heart,
and therefore difficulties were easier for her,
than those not so firmly rooted and grounded
therein.
	Towards the latter part of September, Hep-
sie’s friend Lucy had a little daughter born,
and she was so absorbed in her mother du-
ties and housekeeping, that Hepsie lost sight
of her for a time. So it is the dearest
friends get separated through circumstances,
though the strong ties that bind them need
not necessarily be dissolved.


