VOL. XIX MARCH, 1932 No. 3 EDITORIAL The Relief Society as a Means of Self Realization Self preservation is said to be the first law of life. Life is sacred and it is well that people hold it so valuable and preserve it so tenaciously; but higher than the preservation of it is the realization of self, developing the innate possibilities, calling forth the hidden talents. We know of no organization that so completely helps women to realize self as does the Relief Society. The Master laid down the law of self realization when he said, "Whoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, and whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant." They who follow this admonition realize the paradox of finding life through losing it. The women of the Relief Society realize their better selves by transcending their personal desires and ministering to the general good, by forgetting self for others. They are enriched by their service. No wonder they are deeply spiritual, for in the realm in which they minister one is enriched, not by what is kept but by what is spent. They find the most satisfying happiness in making others happy. They are freed from selfishness, for in their work "sacrifice is growth and service is freedom." Besides the opportunity for service to others, the Relief Society recognizes the rhythm of life?taking in, giving out. It senses the fact that "it is not selfish to cultivate one's faculties, to develop one's talents, to make the most of one's opportunities." The study courses offer educational advantages that are deeply appreciated by the membership. Many women are being educated in the broadest sense of the word through the classwork. Brigham Young said, "Education is the power to think, the power to act, and the power to appreciate." The Relief Society develops all three of these powers. One possesses only the talents that are used, for without cultivation they shrivel and die. The Relief Society woman multiplies her powers through using them. Through this organization opportunity is given for the members to express themselves, and it is a well known fact that expression clarifies thought. Much responsibility is placed upon the shoulders of the officers, and responsibility develops undreamed of powers. The Relief Society woman's emotions are developed through sympathetic understanding and tender ministrations. For ninety years the Relief Society has fulfilled its mission "searching after objects of charity 179 and administering to their wants," developing the members, "provoking the brethren to good works, putting down iniquity and strengthening the virtues of the community," "holding all characters sacred," providing for its members an outlet for the "feelings of charity" that are God-implanted in the woman-heart. From the day it was organized, when the Prophet turned the key, the Society has rejoiced, knowledge and intelligence have flowed freely, and better and better days have been enjoyed by the women who are honored in being connected with this great organization that was founded by the Prophet, and that is instructed and sustained by the Priesthood. Kindness, charity and love have continually crowned its work.