As pioneer life in Utah developed into village life, in each town and hamlet there was organized a Relief Society. In 1854, ten years after the last meeting in Nauvoo, ward organizations were being formed and in a few years more they were on a sound operating basis. The ward organizations were later linked together into stake organizations by President Brigham Young, beginning in 1877, and in 1880 a Central Board was organized to preside over all the Relief Societies of the Church. In 1892 the Board was enlarged and given the title, General Board of Relief Society.
On its fiftieth anniversary, the membership was 25,300; on its seventy-fifth, it was 45,339, and on its ninetieth, it is 64,225.
As the organization grew and developed, its activities were enlarged and extended to meet the needs of each period of time, until today it has grown into the mammoth organization which is now known so well everywhere. In the founding and developing of the state of Utah, the women of the Relief Society had a prominent part, and while their attention was primarily directed to welfare work, they were helpful in every endeavor. Among their early activities were the founding of the Deseret Hospital in 1882, which was the forerunner of the Church hospitals of today; the training of nurses; the establishment of a silk industry which was successful for many years; the operation of their own cooperative stores where they exchanged among other things the products of their labor; the building of Relief Society halls where they held meetings and where they gathered to sew, knit, remodel clothing, make quilts, carpets, etc., for the needy and for funds for their treasuries; the gathering and storing of grain for times of need. They joined the women of the nation in their work for suffrage and peace, and later became affiliated with the National Council of Women. All this was done in addition to their charity and relief work. Educational work for members became a feature in 1902 and has developed until today it is one of the most important projects of the organization.
The Relief Society as an organization has been fortunate in many respects, both from a Church standpoint and from a general standpoint—fortunate in its origin and broad foundation, in its form of organization, its method of operation, the broad scope in both organization and program, the particular period of its existence, in the spirit which has permeated it, and in the devotion of its members. Most important of all it was organized, as has been stated, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was also the founder and president of the Church to which it is auxiliary. It was founded by revelation and under the authority of the holy Priesthood. Such an origin alone naturally gave it great momentum.
Next in importance to the origin of the Society is the spirit which has permeated its work throughout: the spirit of love and sacrifice and service, of progress and inquiry, the spirit which submits to divine authority—the spirit of the gospel. Never has this spirit failed or even faltered in all these ninety years. In its infancy, the organization with all its activities was fostered and supported and developed by the Prophet and was by him made a part of the regular charity system of the Church. It has had the same guidance and supervisory care and support of all of his successors in the Presidency of the Church, as well as of the local Priesthood in stakes and wards. With such universal help and encouragement it could not fail. Being a part of the Church and working so closely with the Church, has given impetus to its entire program.
Its many sided educational work embracing history, literature, art, social science and religion, has reached practically all the mature women of the Church. No woman's organization anywhere can boast of better training than is given in the Relief Society course of study, nor of a larger class enrollment. Its civic projects in health, sanitation and community development have succeeded beyond expectation. Its philanthropic work has been especially fortunate for there is a close relationship between religion and charity. The influence of religion upon the instincts of man is apparent in any consideration of either charity or religion.
The organization was formed when the Church was only twelve years old, and only twenty-two years after the marvelous vision of the Boy Prophet, which ushered in the new dispensation and made way for the restoration of the gospel. Its work therefore covers practically the whole period of the Church's existence. In the development of the Church itself and in all its experiences and dramatic incidents, the Relief Society has had some part. It is therefore rich in historic interest, tradition and experience. Few organizations can point to such a variety of experiences.
Its form and type of organization and its method of operation are patterned after those of the Church. This gives it a sound basis and a foundation especially efficient for functioning. It has had marvelous opportunity for growth and expansion, due to the fact that as soon as a branch of the Church has been firmly established in any given locality, opportunity has been given for the organization of a local unit of the Relief Society, and as the Church has grown and spread, so has the Relief Society. Through this gradual but constant extension, it now covers geographically practically the entire Church. This means that it encircles the globe and is national and international in scope.
In addition to these considerations and advantages, the Society was fortunate in coming into existence in the nineteenth century—the wonderful century which seemed to stand upon the shoulders of its predecessors, thus gaining broader outlook and vision; the century with which began the modern renaissance. The life of the organization has thus paralleled a golden period in history in which there has been greater all around progress than in the whole preceding historical period; a time when the world was unconsciously preparing itself for the fostering and growth of religious freedom and for the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has witnessed also the most important period in the whole history and development of social work.
The world today is very different from that of one hundred years ago when the Church was organized. New methods of locomotion have been inaugurated, new methods of conveying thought and sound discovered, labor saving devices have been invented, and striking progress has been made in the educational and social world. One hundred years ago there were no steamships and Church immigrants were weeks crossing the ocean. Parley P. Pratt and family were ten weeks on a voyage from England to New Orleans in 1843. Farmers were harvesting by hand, women were doing all their sewing by hand, and nobody could send a telegram or cablegram. No woman could enter a college anywhere in the world. No woman could vote. A married woman had no legal status—she could not hold property, she could not use her own earnings without the consent of her husband; she could not act as a guardian and control the person or property of her children; she could not under any circumstances secure a divorce.
A brief statement of some of the achievements since that time will show the progress made. Among them are railways, steamships, automobiles, airships; electric telegraph, wireless telegraph, telephone, radio, phonograph; photography, moving and talking pictures; friction matches, gas illumination, electric lights; typewriting machines, sewing machines; anesthetics, antiseptic surgery, germ theory of disease, X-ray, preventive health work; prohibition; scientific welfare work, abolition of slavery, emancipation of woman. In listing these accomplishments, however, we must not overlook some of the tragic failures—the failure to eliminate war, poverty, crime and disease.
The winning of suffrage, which came about only after a struggle of seventy-two years, from 1848 to 1920, was of great moment to women. That there was lack of progress for women through the preceding centuries is shown when one compares the ideas of Plato in 387 B. C. with those of a New England minister in 1840. Plato affirmed that he who failed in this world would in the next be changed to a woman, and the New England minister said that the degradation of slaves and the degradation of women was approved of God and that he could prove it by the Bible.
In the early nineteenth century women found they had inadequate opportunity for development and little influence in public affairs. When they undertook to work for the anti-slavery cause in 1837, and for temperance, they found they were curtailed and hemmed in on every side, and while Susan B. Anthony began her public work in the interest of temperance and made her first public address in this cause in 1847, she became convinced with others that the only path to victory for women in any cause was through suffrage, and so she with others dedicated herself to this work.
Today women are working successfully in many fields—in business, education, research work, in music and art, in the professions of law and medicine and social work. We hear of successful women business managers, college presidents, and professors, artists and musicians, social experts, lawyers, doctors, women mayors, legislators, congressmen and senators, theatrical producers and aviators. The advancement which has been made by and for women in one hundred years is astounding.
In the face of the past progress and development of the Relief Society, its present officers and members will surely sense their responsibility for its future—and a tremendous responsibility it is. They cannot sit idly by and rest on past achievements. This is a day of enlightenment and progress and if they succeed in carrying on the work in a large way they must have faith, vision, courage, and knowledge, all of which are fundamental to leadership.
"What I do hereafter for charity I shall do through this Society."—Joseph Smith, the Prophet
THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
GREETINGS
By the Presidency of the Relief Society
OUR Relief Society will be ninety years old on March 17, 1932. It has made a glorious record of achievement, having grown from a charter membership of eighteen into an organization exceeding sixty-four thousand members. It is affiliated with the most influential women's organizations of the United States and has a creditable world standing. Incorporated in 1892 under the laws of Utah, it has since been officially known as the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
AS one thinks over the work of the Relief Society during the past ninety years, the care of the sick, the poor, and the needy of the Church is its most significant service. This objective has been its guiding star since it was expressed at the first meeting, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Its work has been to seek out those who need material help—those who have met with sickness or financial reverses, causing helplessness and suffering. Into the homes of such, the Relief Society has entered—a blessing from heaven and a friend in need.