NOTES TO THE FIELD Stake, Nettie I. Yates, supervisor; and next month will publish the one used by the Cottonwood Stake. Grant Stake Outlines for Work and Business Days—1930-1931 Due to the variety in age, financial conditions, and general interests of the members of our Society, we find that on the work day we can interest more women and make the day more successful if we have several groups. We are featuring five special groups: I. The quilting group. This takes care of the traditional work day and supplies an interest for the older ladies. II. The rug group. From material that would otherwise be discarded as useless, we make eight different kinds of home-made rugs. This gives work for many who are not quilters, but are willing to help. III. Art group. In all of our homes, besides the useful, we need the beautiful. Art things are always expensive. If we make our own decorations, we will appreciate them more. The plan is to have a professional art craft teacher give lessons to the ward supervisors each month. IV. Sewing group. We realize that many of our women have done sewing; but the finishing and technique that makes the difference between really fine work and the unsatisfactory things we often see is due to the fact that many who have to sew have never had an opportunity for instruction. This year we hired a professional teacher (Mrs. Thomas). She has given our supervisors a lesson each month to take to the association. The lessons are: 1. To know cloth—kinds for different purposes; how to buy—quality and quantity; preparations of 169 cloth—washing, sponging, cleaning, pressing, shrinking, cutting, etc. 2. Stitches: all different kinds. How and where to use them; learn the sewing vocabulary; helpful suggestions in knowing the business of sewing; suggestions to teachers. 3. Seams, hems, bindings, facings, bias—how to cut and sew. Bias tape as a trimming. 4, Button holes — bound and stitched—how to sew on buttons, snaps, etc. Plackets — different kinds and when to use them. 5. Pockets—tailored, vest, bound, inset, patch, etc.—how to make, where to use. 6. Sleeves—how to measure, cut. Hang, and sew; cuffs and collars as trimmings. 7. Cutting from measurement. Our other three lessons will be given in fitting and finishing; also remodeling suggestions. V. The mothers group. The aim of this group is: 1. For the Society a. To make our association better and more attractive than clubs. b. For our young mothers to get the Relief Society habit. c. To increase our attendance, as it does. In nine of our wards an increase of from 9 to 25 new members is reported. 2. For the mother a. To supply a social need for the mother. She can bring her babies, a special room and entertainment being supplied on that day for the children. b. To give relief to the over burdened mother by helping her solve her greatest problems—managing her children in a scientific and successful way. c. Home appreciation—family appreciation with a religious background; the need of establishing a stable community life. Patterns, and 170 3. Aim for the home. The father's co-operation is solicited in this work. Understanding and practicing right principles makes happier homes. 4. For the community. a. Popularizing higher principles in home life. b. Giving the home and family its proper place in public opinion. 5. For the child—a happier home and a better chance. The work of the mothers group. The time is divided into three parts: I, play, II, work, III. Study. Each division has nine lessons in one year's outlines. I. Play—For small children — Kindergarten songs and games that mothers can engage in and still be about their work. October—Introduction, to show mothers the value of play—what it means to mother and child. We love those we play with, and we play with those we love. Love is conditioned by the effort to entertain, and this service is conditioned by love. October—Substituting things to play—Poem, "Let's Play". Broom or stick for horse; blocks make train; chairs for cars: etc. Make a "list of substitutes" know the value. Mothers should enter into this spirit and assist with their interest but not interfere. November — The imagination. Play without toys. Go through motions of making a cake, driving a car, cooking food, preparing and serving a dinner. Children get a lot of fun if presented wisely. What does the clock say? It will say anything you want it to. Ma-ry-be-good. Bil-ly don't-cry. The rhythm quiets a noisy irritable child, puts them in harmony with rhythm; it soothes. Play we have a baby— everyone must whisper and step quietly so that the baby will not awaken, etc. Songs: "I went across the street" —in motion. "Here's a ball for baby." "So early in the morning." Poems: "On Monday I wash my dolly's clothes" (motion). (There is not room here to give poems and songs in full). December—Hearing. Games and songs that may make children keen in detecting sounds. Recognizing common and unusual sounds, as dropping a spoon, knife and fork; the songs of birds; knowing sound of the step of different members of the family; recognizing tones of voice of different members of the family when they speak the same word. Song: "O, listen to the rain." Games: "I am thinking of a word," "Come G. Come," "Clock talk," "Poor pussy." Playing Santa Claus is popular among small children during December, and also learning Christmas songs and poems. Unselfishness may be correlated with this month's play. January — Sight. Games that stimulate quick recognition by sight. 1. Holding an object up for a second; let the child who recognizes it first have privilege to take his turn of holding up an object. 2. Black-board games. 3. I spy—a game or competition to see who can be first to spy special objects from the window, as cars, bicycles, dogs, men, etc. 4. Drawing. May trace against window. 5. Use of colored crayons, beads, tops, buzzers, blocks, etc. 6. Cut postcards into pieces and put together again. 7. Games—hangman (blackboard game); I spy (a hunting game directed by the words hot and cold); the kaleidoscope. NOTES TO Poems and songs on nature that may help children to see things about them. Asking for descriptions of places they have been. February—The sense of Touch. Madam Montessori Methods. Through touch we learn weight; texture of materials, as cloth, wood, iron, vegetables, etc; surface as smooth, rough, slick, sticky, etc., quality of fabric as wool, cotton, silk, etc. Game—guess what is in a number of small bags, one of meal, salt, starch, flour, wheat, etc. Songs and poems: Gentleness can be correlated with this lesson. March—Motion—for grace, balance, steadying of the nerves. Have a plank for the child to walk on— two dimensions will make two different heights, as 2 by 4. Have child walk on a line or pattern of the carpet. The morning exercise on the radio. Dancing. To make the child skilled in using hands, use soap and clay modeling. Making shadows on the wall. Songs—all little motion songs: "Here's a ball for baby," "A caterpillar on the ground," "I went into a strange foreign land." April—Family tests, for weight, height, strength, holding the breath, measuring chest expansion, etc. Keep record and watch for increase in ability and growth. Honesty and accuracy can be correlated with this lesson. Memory tests are also interesting. May—Planning for family excursions to park, swimming, etc. As far as possible let children plan and prepare for family trips or celebrations. Guessing games on taste and smell, teach child to discover what he really tastes by holding the nose and trying to discern flavors. Work Period Each day some simple constructive work that mothers can have their THE FIELD 171 children do. If children work with mothers they learn what mothers have to do. Nearly every month has a holiday. Let the children make favors, table decorations, decorate the house for festive occasions. In group work we can determine at about what age children can accomplish certain work and take certain responsibilities. Much of the work taken here is preparation for entertainment, and is recommended to be given as rewards when children have promptly and quickly attended to their routine of responsibilities. October—Beads. Children love to string beads. If broken strands are kept they can make combinations. A child three years old broke her beads. She restrung them. The beads were graduated in size and she made only one mistake. Large wooden beads may be purchased for small children to string. Colors may be sorted, or designs made. Children at three can learn to sew on their own buttons. Children can sort buttons and string all of one kind on a string. At what age can a child button his own clothes? Carry a glass of water without spilling? Etc. Children love to do things when they feel the task is important and appreciated. Halloween decorations and favors are easily made and appreciated by the children, even in the home if there is no party. November—Things that can be made from paper. By folding and cutting, paper dolls, furniture, caps (2 kinds), ships, chickens, windmills, etc. Weaving paper mats baskets, etc. Sewing outline drawings on cards, afterwards on bibs, dishtowels, etc. Thanksgiving decorations and table favors and place cards can be made. December — Xmas suggestions and presents for members of the 172 family. With a pocket knife and a coping saw boys can make bread boards, cake boards, tie racks, etc. Girls can make needle work designs for towels, handkerchiefs, etc. Salt beads. We solicit suggestions from all members. (We make our own models and present at the union meeting). Supervisors make their models before going to class. At what age can a child begin to assist in setting the table? At what age can children wash hands, face, neck, comb hair, etc. January—What can we do with spools? Make wagons, cradles, tops, hay forks (spools for pulleys), doll furniture, book cases, weaving, color spools, and string. With cigar boxes and pocket knives, boys can make many things. Crepe paper and oil cloth novelties can be made by small girls. At what age can children peel potatoes and help to prepare vegetables? What age can children learn to make their beds and keep rooms tidy? February—Three holiday or festive occasions. Lincoln and Washington's birthday and Valentine's Day. Patriotic things—flags, red, white and blue decorations, a cake frosted to represent flag. Gum drop pigs for Lincoln's birthday, hatchets for Washington's birthday. If children plan and work for little parties they will appreciate them more. Let mother be the helper and director. For Valentines, decorate a cake as a valentine—heart shaped nut cups. Original designed valentines give the child something to occupy his time, and make for accuracy; also teach color, design, form, proportion, and aesthetics. A valentine is a message of love. March—Spring starts with March with outside games. We present our Easter novelties because it would be too late to give them in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE April. Easter novelties made from egg shells—baskets, cradles, flower pots (plant in them crocus bulbs); make pigs, rabbits, color shell, make faces, make hats and bonnets for them. Make from gum drops and candy eggs, baskets, pigs, and rabbits. For the table, cup cakes with candy rabbits or chickens in green frosting; make cake look like a nest with cocoanut; put eggs and candy yellow chicks on for decoration. Salad: 1. Boiled eggs cut to look like a flower with yellow center; place on plate with shredded lettuce. 2. Boil eggs hard; take shell off; place eggs in beet vinegar to color them red; cut as above or in slices for salad. How to make a kite— book of knowledge. At what age can a child commence helping with the cooking? When is a child responsible for money? April — Children can make flippers, bows and arrows, for target shooting; whistles of several types can be made in early spring. A parachute made of a square piece of cloth, a string tied to each corner, a weight tied to the four strings. Prepare a garden spot, vegetable or flower garden. Are lessons in dancing and music considered as work or as play? How can we discover the special aptitudes of our children? May—How can we obtain the cooperation of our children in the home work? Why do children like to work for the teacher? Why do children like to work for a neighbor or in some other home? Necessity of getting children to school on time helps to regulate many homes during school months; in the summer, this restraint is removed. We suggest that parents learn the value of regularity; value of definite routine responsibility; value of using a chart to assist them. (Franklin NOTES TO used a chart). Suggest Knighthood of Youth chart for the child. A suggestive chart for mothers to keep for the child. Chart Date ................................. Physical condition.................. Food used............................. Recreation enjoyed................... Work ability......................... Child's attitude..................... Mother's attitude.................... Weekly or monthly markings Study For the success of this work we owe much to Miss Jean Cox, supervisor of adult education in the State of Utah, who has shown special interest in this course. She has furnished outlines on several of the subjects we have studied. The outlines were prepared by Miss Anna Page, who has also showed great interest and helped in the work. Oct.—Why study our family— no two children are alike. What makes the difference? How to meet our situations successfully. Get others' view points. Profit by others' experiences. Nov.—Heredity and environment. The part these play in forming child character. Dec.—Attitude of parents to children and their responses. Jan.— Attitudes and emotions of children and the part they play in their adult life. Feb.—Discipline and obedience. Mar.—Rewards and punishments. Apr.—Sex problems. May—The adolescent child. Some of our wards are so interested that they make two sessions each month. They do the study work at the meeting and meet at the different homes for the work THE FIELD 173 and play sections. It makes the social contact stronger. In another ward so many want both the sewing and mother group they have the sewing lesson in the forenoon. Another ward is holding the art work at the home of the art supervisor so more can attend the mother group. Many of the older mothers ask the privilege of attending the mothers group so they can take the information to their daughters who live out of our stake, who have little children they cannot leave or for other reasons they cannot attend. We have been asked if we will hold this course through the summer for those who could not come during the winter. We ask that each group on our workday keep a roll and that members register for the separate classes, that they may feel more responsible for being present at all the classes. We have a suggestive outline for a four years course for the mothers group. Miss Page has sanctioned it and recommends it. Mother's Group Study for Four Years (Subject to Changes) First Year—pre-school age—(physical) Why study Appetite and habits Eating and foods Sleeping Elimination. Play Sex Temper Second Year—emotional— Mental growth and emotions Love Fear Anger Conscience Entertainment Imagination Child's faults Complexes Third Year—parents 1. The Parents Part 2. Methods of training 3. Parents Faults 174 4. Corrective method 5. Child's viewpoint 6. Rewards and punishments 7. Honesty 8. Industry 9. Citizenship Fourth Year—adolescent— 1. Mental and physical development  . Emotions 3. Attitudes 4. Social 5. Financial 6. Sex. 7. Cooperation and companionship 8. Morals 9. Spiritual and life's work.