[Vol7 | January 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Discipline of Opposition in this Newest Year o]
THE  DISCIPLINE  OF  OPPOSITION  IN  THIS  NEWEST 
YEAR  OF   1920. 
Life  is  checkered  with  discipline,  strewn  with  raging 
battles  of  human  will  with  human  will,  of  human  will  with 
circumstances  and  with  the  forces  of  nature.  It  is  the  vital 
part  of  the  divine  plan,  the  pith,  the  marrow  of  human  exis- 
tence. Nay,  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  no  conscious  existence 
can  obtain  without  the  operation  of  opposition  and  of  the  con- 
sequent discipline.  Some  human  wills  may  indeed  refuse  to 
accept  the  discipline  or  acknowledge  the  presence  of  law  and 
of  a  divine  ordering  in  their  various  experiences.  No  matter 
how  opposition  comes  to  us — and  come  it  will,  whether  we 
are  determined  to  grow  upward,  to  work  wisely,  to  serve 
nobly,  or  if  we  are  simply  weak  and  foolish — all  the  opposition 
and  the  discipHne  born  of  that  opposition  will  strengthen  us, 
develop  us,  and  enrich  life  here  and  hereafter,  if  we  accept  it 
for  what  it  is,  and  intelligently  turn  it  to  best  account. 
Everywhere  we  look  we  find  discipline :  the  discipline  of 
fear,  of  disappointment  and  loss,  of  failure,  of  criticism, of  sick- 
ness and  death,  of  work  and  severest  of  all,  the  tonic  discipline 
of  lack  of  appreciation.  In  childhood  and  youth  every  oppos- 
ing force  to  our  appetites  and  desires  is  bitterly  resented  and 
violently  received.  Little  savages  as  they  are,  children  know 
no  law  but  desire,  no  rights  but  their  own.  That  their  desires 
may  infringe  on  other's  rights,  that  the  gratification  of  their

EDITORIAL  49 
wants  and  appetites  may  bring  pain  and  sickness  to  themselves 
or  to  others  means  nothing  whatever  to  their  undiscipHned 
minds.  Some  grown  people,  either  inordinately  selfish,  or 
spoiled  by  coddling  and  over-indulgence  in  youth,  maintain 
this  senseless  and  densely  ignorant  attitude  toward  life  all 
their  days. 
We  have  opposition  from  every  source,  in  every  activity 
and  through  all  life's  manifestations ;  there  must  be,  and  is, 
opposition  in  politics ;  even  in  monarchies  and  under  autocrats 
there  is  the  constant  play  and  inter-play  of  crossing  wills  and 
opposing  purposes  and  plans.  Republics  can  exist  only  on 
the  basis  of  the  constant  friction  between  opposing  factions. 
Were  it  not  so,  a  republic  would  soon  or  late  become  an 
autocracy,  and  express  the  will  and  plans  of  but  one  man  or 
one  set  of  men. 
There  must  be  opposition  in  love.  Novels  are  founded 
on  the  human  triangle  of  one  man  and  two  women  or  two  men 
and  one  woman.  In  the  infancy  of  novel  writing,  as  in  the 
infancy  of  man  and  of  men,  the  battles  of  life  are  fought  with 
sticks  and  staves,  knives  and  guns.  In  maturity  the  battle  is 
between  will  and  will,  or  between  will  and  circumstances  or 
the  forces  of  nature.  There  are  but  three  plots  in  the  universe 
and  these  are  founded  on  the  battle  of  the  human  will  with  the 
opposing  forces  of  love,  of  greed,  or  of  ambition.  The  office 
of  friendship  is  the  discipline  of  wise  encouragement  and 
wise  rebuke ;  as  the  Preacher  puts  it,  "As  iron  sharpeneth 
iron,  so  a  man  sharpeneth  the  countenance  of  his  friend."  (Pr. 
27:17.) 
There  is  constant  opposition  in  business  life.  Men  must 
needs  oppose  one  another.  As  the  old  phrase  has  it,  "Competi- 
tion is  the  life  of  trade."  Today  it  is  the  battle  of  the  business 
giants,  pigmies  are  crushed  to  powder  in  the  struggle.  And 
when  you  shift  the  battle  to  the  opposing  forces  of  organized 
capital  and  organized  labor  you  have  a  death  grapple  which 
threatens  to  destroy  civilization  in  its  throes. 
In  our  homes  this  ceaseless  struggle  of  wills  goes  on  and 
on.  Children  oppose  one  another,  parents  oppose  the  children 
and,  at  times,  oppose  each  other.  The  stronger  will — too  often 
the  selfish  and  self-centered  will — wins  in  this  daily  domestic 
struggle,  and  too  often  goodness  and  unselfishness  submits  for 
the  sake  of  peace.    That  is  always  life's  bitterest  tragedy. 
When  we  set  up  our  wills  against  the  divine  will,  as  we  do 
so  often — and  so  often  half-consciously — we  must  inevitably 
pay  the  price  in  health,  in  love,  in  business,  in  politics,  in  our 
homes  and  in  our  religion.  Only,  how  may  we  always  know 
that  we  are  opposing  law  and  the  purpose  of  the  Lord.    Ah,

50  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
my  friends,  there  are  sign  posts  for  us,  if  we  will  but  study 
them,  all  along  life's  way. 
All  wills  must  bend  here  and  give  way  there,  for,  after  all, 
life  is  just  one  huge  compromise ;  and  we  must  always  remem- 
ber that  the  good  of  the  whole  is  far  more  necessary  than  that 
of  any  one  of  its  parts.  That  is  the  foundation  of  a  republic. 
How  much  to  bend,  when  to  give  way,  that's  our  daily  problem. 
If  we  can  but  face  this  vital  fact  of  discipline,  of  the  need  of 
opposition,  fairly  and  squarely,  the  half  of  our  problem  is 
solved.  But  we  are  like  children,  we  want  our  way  at  once 
and  without  opposition.  We  are  not  willing  to  wait  and  to 
keep  on  struggling.  We  fly  from  discipline.  Discouraged  we 
throw  up  our  hands  and  let  go  of  the  iron  rod.  "Cowards," 
said  Pres.  Joseph  F.  Smith,  to  a  group  of  troubled  women  who 
wished  to  resign  from  their  positions  because  of  bitter  opposi- 
tion :  "Is  that  what  you  would  do  in  general  Church  affairs, 
if  things  didn't  go  right?  Apostatize  because  mistakes  occur 
and  men  oppose  a  good  measure?  Stay  right  where  you  are 
and  work  to  bring  to  pass  what  measures  seem  right  and 
wise!"  Hence,  we  must  count  upon  opposition.  It  is  the 
oxygen  of  human  vitality.  A  man  who  had  a  great  mission 
to  perform  the  following  day  paced  the  floor  all  night  sleepless 
and  alert.  When  asked  by  his  friend  why  he  did  not  retire  he 
replied,  "I  am  afraid  of  the  unseen  wills  working  in  the  dark." 
Then,  opposition  must  come,  and  we  must  make  the  disci- 
pline thereof  fruitful  through  our  wisdom,  our  faith,  and 
through  an  unselfish  desire  to  serve  God  and  our  fellow  men. 
Thus  it  will  become  a  blessing,  leaving  in  its  wake  peace  and 
prosperity.  Will  we,  then,  not  welcome  our  opposing  forces  in 
this  pregnant,  opening  year  of  1920,  making  them  our  servants 
and  not  our  masters?  This  wonderful  opening  year,  the 
centennial  of  that  marvelous  vision  in  the  grove  at  Palmyra, 
when  our  beloved  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  received  his  glorious 
manifestation,  the  opening  of  the  heavens  and  the  revelation 
anew  to  the  children  of  men  that  God  i§  in  his  heavens  and 
that  Jesus  is  his  Only  Begotten  Son.  Will  we  not  remember  the 
long  and  terrible  discipline  of  opposition  which  flooded  the 
pa.th  of  that  prophet,  and  which  was  only  surpassed  by  the 
cruel  opposition  known  to  the  Savior  of  the  world?  From 
them  we  will  draw  our  New  Year's  lesson,  and  will  measure 
our  opposition  by  the  rod  of  iron,  and  by  the  Golden  Rule. 
Thus  we  may  face  the  rising  of  our  New  Year's  day  unafraid, 
prepared.
