HOME ETHICS
======================================================================

HOME ETHICS. I. Christmas greetings to our Relief Society sisters. II. One should read, study and give sincere attention to the birth, life, and mission of our Savior. III. Follow him through all the different vicissitudes from birth until his crucifixion. IV. Ater doing this, one can more fully appreciate the greatness, beauty, and magnificence of Christ's character. V. Why we celebrate this day. VI. How the children, old and young, papas and mamas, and grandparents, join in its observance. HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "I am the true vine, and my Father is the Husbandman." John, 15:1. House Plants: Geraniums are the most popular and easiest grown of all house plants. They require less attention, a moderate heat, and but little moisture, compared with many other varieties. This is a very good time of year for starting new plants, taking slips from those which have been growing in summer gardens. For this, provide a shallow box of sand, and place in a dark closet or room, planting the slips in the box, keeping it rather cool and moist. They will soon show signs of germination, and be ready to transplant into pots. Then bring into the warm room and give sunlight. They will soon put forth blooms. Have good, thick mountain loam, or sandy soil, with good stable manure mixed thoroughly, before placing in pots or boxes for use. Always put a few small pebbles in the bottom of the pot, then put in the soil, thus assuring proper drainage. Mignonette Can be planted anew by planting fresh seeds: as you did in the spring, or by taking up the plants from the garden, with plenty of dirt around the roots, so they do not feel too much disturbed. Place the plants in a cool place for a few days. They will soon begin a new life, and continue to bloom, giving a dainty fragrance to the whole house. There are many who prefer the perfume of mignonette to the fragrance of any other house plant. Begonias: There are many varieties and kinds. All are beautiful, whether of the blossoming variety or the wonderfully 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ornamental begonias with their variegated leaves. Begonias are also easily propagated from slips. They, however, require a great deal of moisture and indirect sunlight they are like the; geranium in that they are almost perpetual bloomers, if they are of the flowery varieties. Fuschias: Once you get a good fuschia plant and give it the proper care, study its wants as to light and heat, spraying its leaves, etc., you can keep it easily for three or four years, or until it grows into a large tree-shaped plant. Fuschias like a south window in winter, plenty of moisture and a good tub bath once a week. Try the purple Storm King if you are fond of fuschias. Give it the treatment and care mentioned above, and you will be rewarded with a plant filled with blossoms the year round. Treat the slips from fuschias as you would geraniums, begonias and other plants. They will bring like results. Placing glass over the slips assists their growth and helps to retain the moisture in the sand. Bulbs: Try the following method of planting bulbs. It will be interesting to the children, as they can watch the development of the roots, and better understand how things mature: Take an ordinary drinking glass or old-fashioned spoon-holder or sugar bowl. Place in the glass a piece of cotton batting about three inches deep, then set in a hyacinth or tulip, crocus, or snow-drop bulb. Keep the glass filled with sufficient water to cover the cotton. Place in a cool, dark closet for ten days then bring it out, place in a north or east window; where there is but little heat or sun, as too much of either will cause too rapid a growth. In a few days the roots begin to push through the cotton, green leaves shoot up from the top, and soon it blossoms. Through the glass the children watch the growth of the plants. Let the mother talk to the children about plant life. Teach them how to plant and care for flowers. This will be both instructive and interesting to the whole family, more especially to the children. Christmas Trees: There is no other people in all the world that makes such extensive preparations for Christmas as do the German-speaking people. The poorest of the poor have the Christmas tree, with its glittering decorations. Its message of good will and friendly wishes for all mankind are better understood and more deeply felt by them than by any other people. The trees most extensively used are red pine, black balsam, red cedar and fir, the red and white pine being generally preferred for Christmas trees, on account of the symmetry and exquisite beauty of this tree. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 Holly: This is a plant used extensively in America for decorative purposes during the Christmas holiday seasons. There are several varieties of the shrub, and it is found mostly in temperate climates. The leaves are glossy, blossoms white, and the fruit mostly a bright scarlet. Holly bears cutting extensively and this makes it excellent for hedge fences. Its wood is white and hard, and it is useful in making knife handles and wood instruments. It grows very extensively in the United States and Africa. The state of Oregon produces a most beautiful variety, which is shipped by tons into our own western cities and states. It is made into wreaths and ornamental designs and sold at Christmas time on our market. Mistletoe: This is a parasitic plant growing on many varieties of plants, especially oak, poplar, ash, apple and other fruit trees. There are about 30 varieties. It grows in length from two to five feet. Its leaves are oblong, and are of a green yellowish tint. It is found extensively in the United States and Eurasia. The ancient Celtic peoples of Europe and the Druids regarded the mistletoe with much veneration. It was thought to be very effective in curing diseases, and in preventing sickness. There are still many old supersitions in Germany and Europe regarding the mistletoe, such as kissing under the mistletoe at Christmas, which is a proof that it is an emblem of love. In Europe it is used very extensively for decorative purposes during the Yuletide season. Potted Plants and Bulbs as Christmas Gifts: While the suggestion may be somewhat late for this year's gifts, especially if we are depending on giving gifts from our own slips and planting, they can be purchased cheaply at florists. We should begin e.arly in September and October to have bulbs and plants, named and marked for our friends whom we love and admire, for Christmas remembrance. A spirit of moderate and sensible giving and receiving may be encouraged in this way. Chinese lily bulbs planted in small pebbles in an earthen or china bowl makes an appropriate gift, and are not expensive, and are more lasting than cut flowers. Any kind of bulbs may be planted in the same way as the Chinese lilies. Of course, they require plenty of water and but little heat, especially at the first stages of germination. . ; 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN December