ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
======================================================================

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY

Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.

1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City.
4. L. C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379½ So. Main St., Salt Lake City.
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City.
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City.
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City.
9. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.
10. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
11. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.
12. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main St., Salt Lake City.
13. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City.
14. CUTLERS, 36 S. Main St., Salt Lake City.
15. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.
16. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City.
17. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City.
18. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.
19. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake.
20. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake.
21. SCRACE'S BAKERY, 24 S. Main, Salt Lake City.

ADVERTISEMENT: L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER

Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter
Ball Bearing, Long Wearing

Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease—no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy.

Another advantage—this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp.

WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO.
379 SO. MAIN STREET
Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENT: S. M. TAYLOR & CO.

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908

S. M. TAYLOR & CO.
UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West

53 years in one location
251-253-255-257 East First South St.
Salt Lake City, Utah

MODERN METHODS
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT
EFFICIENT SERVICE

ADVERTISEMENT: L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE

A SUCCESSFUL COLLEGE GROWS

In one year our increase has been forty per cent.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Day Sessions: seven dollars a month
Night Sessions: four dollars a month

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol. I. December, 1914. No. 12 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS. As the year draws to its close, we naturally turn to contemplate the past and to consider what has been accomplished worthy of merit or to be remembered as contributing to the general good of the world, or the people at large, and whether the year has been one of growth, in the larger sense, for mankind. In looking back this year we cannot help feeling that every other consideration falls into insignificance in view of the uncalled for and totally unnecessary war in which Europe is involved, and which surpasses in cruelty and horror any war since modern civilization began. In this terrible conflict the ambition of kings and rulers has surely reached its climax. Upon the slightest pretext, the horrid enginery and agencies of bloodshed have been set in motion, battle has been forced upon friend nations, and countries whose dreams and labors were all directed along the lines of universal peace have been compelled, in order to save their honor and their life, to take up the sword. Who is to answer for the lives lost in the conflict and the widows and orphans, whose sufferings must be beyond description? Who is to still the prayers, tears and entreaties which avail so little against armed hosts, called into battle under orders from their leaders, whom they must obey? 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN The lines of Kipling's poem continually force, themselves into the mind: "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget, lest we forget!"  Alas, there is no fear now of our forgetting it would be a relief indeed could we but forget the awful situation across the sea. But this is a relief impossible to those whose hearts are filled with pity and compassion. The dreadful spectre of bloodshed and carnage leaves neither peace nor rest in the minds of those who love their fellow men, and whose aim and struggle has been to bring about an era when war should be known no more. However, though our hearts bleed because of the desolation and strife, yet we should remember that there is a God in Heaven, who watches over all, and put our trust in Him, knowing of a surety that He doeth all things well. We should not be forgetful of the peace in our own land of promise, for we all know that America is the promised land, choice above all others. It is cause for gratitude that we as a nation are at peace with all the world; for though Mexico, our southern neighbor, has been and continues to be disturbed, there is no need for anxiety on our part except by way of sympathy with those who are being troubled and injured. As a nation we fortunately still seem free from any entanglement or participation in the unhappy conditions existing beyond the Rio Grande. The Latter-day Saints, as a people, have every reason to rejoice in the prosperity that has been showered upon them this year, especially in vegetation and fruits, the cattle upon a thousand hills, the sheep, and every living thing that adds to the support and sustenance of the people who inhabit these mountain vales. Great things are expected of this peculiar people, and they should keep in mind the counsel given by our leaders in days past and present, concerning the fulfillment of prophecies, when those who are in trouble and in want will flee to Zion for assistance. We who know these things and believe them, should be active and diligent, and on the alert at all times, making preparations for the fulfillment of prophecy, that the people may not be taken unawares, but be ready for emergencies with our lamps trimmed and burning. In these perilous and distracting times, great wisdom should be exercised by those who teach among the sisters in the Church. They should be careful and wise in giving advice, seeking diligently in prayer for the spirit of the Lord to guide them in all their sayings and doings, and duly recognize those who preside over them in the Relief Society. Our organization is expected to be in perfect harmony with the Priesthood in each: RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 locality; and if this is done, there is safety for all, and no danger of getting wrong ideas on any subject. Pride, says the Scripture, goeth before a fall, and the warning is a true one. Humility is one of the noblest attributes of human character, and it will bring down upon its possessor the blessings of Heaven. Finally, in view of the dire condition of the world today and the events about to transpire in the near future, it behooves us as women of Zion to set an example of excellence to all the world having that true charity that never faileth, ; exercising at all times wisdom, in season and out of season and; in all respects ordering our lives and conduct in accordance with our high profession as Latter-day Saints. EMMELINE B. WELLS. EDITORIAL. STAR OF BETHLEHEM. Into the eastern heavens, there shines today the first faint glimmer of that star or comet which astronomers tell us shone over the cave in Bethlehem. It has shone once before when great destructions and devastations swept over the earth, in the year 1300 and today; men who study the heavens are questioning the portent of that glistening star which may be seen about ten o'clock on clear nights, at a point almost directly below the polar star. As the night wanes, it arises higher in the heavens, and in the early morning, between 2 and 4 o'clock, it reaches its greatest altitude above the horizon. Scholars are asked if this world-war be not the battle of Armageddon, referred to in the 16th chapter of the Book of Revelations. Astronomers have been forecasting for years the coming of this star. One prophesy which was made by a monk named Brother Johannes, in the year 1600, written in Latin, is translated into the French papers of the present day. Says Prof. Sothnos Latillier This is the predestined year in which the Star of Bethlehem r*appears in the heavens to herald the battle of Armageddon. Already in the evening skies the star, which is really a comet, is dimly discernible, and as the titanic conflict now raging reaches its climax it will be visible to all eyes. We know what events happened in the year when the Star of Bethlehem first appeared, and we know what has happened on every appearance of the star since then. Can we doubt that the mighty events of this year are connected with its return? Will any reasonable man question that this world-war is the battle of Armageddon foretold in the Bible, in the 16th chapter of the Book of Revelation? 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Truly, my beloved sisters, we are on the threshold of great events. The Star of Bethlehem shines over every cradle and threshold in this present year. As it was in the days of Noah, so it is in these days which are so near the coming of Christ. We are busy with the temporal things of the Kingdom we are giving gifts and making; merry, when our thoughts should rather dwell on the solemnities of the eternities which are understood only by the Latterday Saints. One year is a very short, or a very long time. It is one year ago since the General Board of the Relief Society prepared outlines of study, and one year ago since they decided to publish a monthly Bulletin which should contain these lessons and some other notes. Those who have received the Bulletin are the best judges as to the success or failure of this experiment. This is the month in which we celebrate the nativity of Christ, and although we are reasonably certain he was born in April, and not in December, still we join with the Christian world in making the 25th of December a memorial day to our worshipped Savior and Redeemer. When we go to lay our gifts on the altar of the future, as did the wise men in the cave of Bethlehem, we are minded to question ourselves as to the value and potency of those gifts. When I see a mother with a babe at her breast, to whom she has given the gift of a body, through her own body when; I see a father's loving arms around the shoulders of his growing sons; when I see a teacher forming character in the little students gathered about her desk, when I see a man cheerfully relinquishing a coveted prize that another may profit thereby; when I see our leaders giving of themselves without stint nor withholding in their labors of guidance and wise direction amongst people when I see the women of the Relief Society; trudging about the snowy streets with their gifts for the poor, and their words of encouragement for all, when I see men and women going down into the waters of baptism to bring their  kindred dead out from their prison houses, when I see all of these things, then I say, these noble men and women all have gifts of inestimable value to lay at the feet of the Babe of Bethlehem, and I ask myself, are any of these gifts mine to give? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN S What have I done for the sick, the poor, the tempted, the tried, the widow and orphan, the weak and erring, or for the spirits in prison? Have I saved a soul, or have I fed and nourished a starving body, or administered to a hungry spirit? If I have, then these are my gifts of frankincense and myrrh. I know a good woman who has gathered over $-400 to distribute to the destitute Saints in the European missions through President Hyrum M. Smith. Many of the givers of these gifts were poor widows themselves, struggling and almost destitute, but they have gladly denied themselves, and have appealed to the tender impulses of their friends to use their Christmas money in thus relieving the wants of our own Saints in Europe, whose fathers and husbands have gone out to this dreadful war. This, indeed, is a work of love and charity. Such work and kindred labors will prepare a Christmas atmosphere that will envelope us all in a robe of love and peace. What are you giving this Christmas to the Master? December WOKK AI^D BUSINESS Lesson I. "Charity is the pure love of Christ and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it  shall.be well with them. "Book of Moroni, 7:47. December