HEPHZIBAH.

1  Introduction

	"Truth is stranger than fiction."

	When the artist would paint a picture,
whether it is to be ideal, or a scene from nature,
he collects material, draws an outline sketch,
coloring it as he proceeds with his work, touch
ing it here and there, viewing it in all lights,
shading, or softening according to his fancy,
making it a study and an art. He has posi-
tive material to work with, and also his own
delicate sense of the beautiful to aid him in
his pleasant task. It is the exquisite taste and
skill, with which he combines and links to-
gether substances with thoughts, that give
beauty and tone to the picture.
	The author has no such actual helps in
beautifying and embellishing his work; it is
simply all thoughts, intermingled with fancies
or remembrances, perhaps faint as shadows.
These blended with realities form the pen-pic-
ture, but the design is only in the mind, and
all the solid work must be done by his own
brain. Ideas emanating largely from fancy
wrought into pictures of real life, but all in a
very imperceptible form, until they are, by the
delicate and diligent aid of the author, caught
in their airy flight and placed on paper by the
helpful aid of pen and ink.
	It is a picture of this kind the writer now
undertakes to sketch. The planning, design-
ing and embellishing, all has to be done in
the mind's eye ere it is engraven on paper.
The materials are only fragments culled from
memory's worn and defaced tablets, woven
together with the fine spun thread of imagina-
tion in the golden loom of fancy. If the pic-
ture be true to life, there will be some heavy
dark shading, yet here and there a ray of
sunlight with mellow tinges; occasionally a
storm will sweep over the scene and from its
very intensity will be almost perceptible;
then, too, there will be singing birds, and
babbling brooks, and murmuring seas with
tides coming in, and many things odd and
strange, yet withal some touches of pathetic
sweetness; the holy calm of summer twilight,
mooulight scenes, and stars peeping out in the
distance, like bright harbingers of future hope.
Whatever of a study the story may be, it will
be more real than ideal, more American than
foreign, more modern than antique, and the
readers interest may thus be somewhat inten-
sified.

	A village nestled down among the hills,
		With quaint old fashion'd houses low and brown;
	And picture-like some old neglected mills,
		In days gone by, the pride of all the town.

	In one of the inland towns of the old Bay
State, half a century ago, there was situated
an exceedingly romantic little village. A rural
picture, nestled down among the rocky hills in
a hollow, that had once been a thickly wooded
dell. Around it on the South and West rose
gentle undulating fields where sleek cattle
grazed, sheep nibbled, and young calves and
lambs frisked and gamboled in innocent glee,
for very joy of living. Wild flowers bloomed
in shady nooks and by the winding brooks;
northward it was sheltered by a heavy timbered
woodland, that rose steep and high; and trees
the growth of centuries stood in their proud
magnificence, the monarchs of the forest.
Hard maple, oak, birch, and pine, grew there
in great abundance, and from these leafy woods


[Column 1]

the sawmills further up among the hills were
well supplied. Eastward stretched out in the
distance, long lines and broad plains of rich
meadow and pasture lands; and afar off one
might discern the Church spires and peaked
roofs of the houses in another sleepy old town.
It was not a noisy bustling village, bnt staid
and restful. One could well fancy that old,
old echos still lingered in the hills, and the
people were too "proper" to waken them; there
was such method and precision in everything;
and the women always spoke low and gently,
in soft modulated tones. There were a few un-
pretentious houses, most of them low, and old,
and brown; an old furnace and forge, the de-
light of the village boys; but the principal
feature of the place was an old woolen mill,
situated in the centre of the little cluster of
dwellings, on a clear placid stream of water
that bounds over its rocky bed, on through the
town. Twenty years before the mill was run-
ning "full time" and paid well, employing
three score of hands; the old furnace too, was
bright and glowing then, a brawny arm up-
lifted, and the sound of the hammer at the
forge, the sparks flying hither and yon, gave
life and activity to the scene.
	The times had changed. The old settlers
whose industry and thrift, had turned the
wilderness into fields and gardens, had grown
care-worn and tired, or were sleeping in qniet
resting places in the church-yard near by.
Many of the young, ambitious sons in the
pride of manhood, had gone fortune-hunting
into new localities, where there were other lands
to subdue and make fertile; or weary of the
quiet atmosphere that brooded over their na-
tive village, had grown restless and sought the
bustle of the great, busy world, in some large
city or enterprising town, and so the old mill
stood still.
	The children wondered why the great
building was empty and forsaken, and
thought how splendid it would be to see the
large, old fashioned wheels that seemed so lazy,
turn over and over in the deep still water, send-
ing it dashing and foaming over their ponder-
ous sides. It was not strange that the children
queried and asked numberless questions, for it
was a curious old place, and rumors were afloat
no one knew from whence they came, that the
old mill was haunted, that at night witches
met there to hold high revelry. But somehow
the children did not seem to be afraid, and
were never forbidden to play there.
	Adjoining the mill was a carding machine
which still did regular duty; turning out in
great abundance the soft, white rolls that
were spun on the great wheels in all the
country houses, by the domesticated pretty
girls. Young ladies then, were quite as proud
of their skill in spinning, knitting, and house-
hold employments, as our modern mesdemoi-
selles are of their music and drawing. Tripping
back and forth, to and from the spinning wheel,
drawing out the soft, fleecy rolls, through the
pretty taper fingers, shows of one's hands as
well, and figure more, than sitting at the
piano.
	The handsome, little wheels for spinning
tow and linen, were really beautiful, and the
ideal picture of a lady spinning flax, twirling
her pretty distaff, between her slender fingers,
her dainty foot upon the treadle has been the
theme of poetry and of song. Some writers
tell us our Puritan grandmothers were very
"plain folk," but methinks they were also very
proud.
	The mill had been built at an early period,
in the settlement of the village, and in fact
had been the origin of the couutry itself; for
one by one, the people had gathered there, to
get employment in the factory Now the
owner and proprietor had retired from the busy
pursuits of active life, and the mill was allowed
to stand idle. The master was weary with

[Column 2]

many years, and in the "paternal mansion" he
sat and rested from his arduous labors. Long
after he had withdrawn from the daily voca-
tions once so diligently pursued, he still enter-
tained his friends and neighbors in the most
hospitable fashion at the old farm house. He
never wearied of reciting over and over again,
to his guests, stories of his life; how his father
came there a boy, when the country was new
and wild. His family had been large
land-owners in the city of Boston, but as the
town was enlarged, and the population in-
creased, they sold their land, piece by piece,
and came into the back woods to settle, where
there was more room and less temptation, for
a large family of boys, and subsequently they
had built the mill. He delighted in recount-
ing the hardships and privations of pioneer
life; and dwelt upon his father's hatred of the
British, and the Roman Catholics.
	No wonder he was proud of liberty, for he
had fought bravely for it in perilous places,
and had endured much privation and fatigue.
To him freedom was dearer than life; to ob-
tain that precious boon he had faced death at
the point of the bayonet. His favorite phrase,
which he very frequently repeated to his child-
ren and friends, was one familiar to all Ameri-
can citizens, "Taxation, without representation
is tyranny." The honors conferred upon him,
he considered fairly earned, and was proud of
his handsome uniform, and heavy clumsy
sword, which he always exhibited on training
days. His military air on such occasions quite
awed the children, and they looked upon him
with a degree of reverence mingled with en-
thusiasm, for what heart does not beat a little
faster, when the drums beat and the soldiers
parade, that has the blood of the patriots in
its veins. But the most interesting of all the
old Major's stories, especially to the young
folks, was how his father fell in love with the
daughter of a General in the British army;
and as he expressed it, his magnificent figure,
his manliness and courage, made him master
of the situation, and he won his sweetheart,
in despite of the high sense of filial duty she
entertained, and her aristocratic father's 
remonstrances. Differences were cast aside, 
and distinctions leveled by the magical charm
of true love, and when the war was over, and
the armies of the king had been vanquished,
the haughty General returned to his native
shore, leaving his only daughter, the heir to
his wealth, and the pride of his ancestral home,
with her unsophisticated "Yankee" husband.
	The officer's daughter had received superior
educational advantages, and her accomplish-
ments were far beyond those of the country
girls among whom her lot had been cast; but
she never manifested the least consciousness of
the fact; she had married the man of her
choice, and gracefully adapted herself to the
habits and customs of the people, who were
from henceforth to be her people. A genuine
lady born and bred, she assumed no rights or
privileges more than her neighbor; but bore
herself modestly as wife and mother, honoring
the position she had gladly accepted.
	She played the harp and sung like
a bird; and her costly silks and
creamy laces, which she wore with such an air
of refinement, were the admiration of the
ladies all the country round. It is need-
less to recount her good deeds, her heart was
generous, and her lord was rich, and their
bounties were liberally dispensed.
	It was during their young married life that
the old factory was built, and the village
grew, "in a manner speaking," and prosperity
and success domestic, and financial, attended
the happy couple. He was tall and strong,
and she was so petite that she could standwith-
out stooping under his outstretched arm.
