DEAR EDITOR:	
	I thought if there was room in our good
little paper I would write a few more lines for
it. In my last letter to you I told you about
going to Salt Lake and having a tumor
removed, and I have felt so well and happy
ever since; I want my sisters to see the difference
between being healed by the power of the Lord,
and being cured with medicine. I know that I
was healed by the power of the Lord; I have
never suffered ten minutes with any kind of
pain since I left the Deseret Hospital; and I
do feel so thankful to my Heavenly Father
for it; I never enjoyed myself so well in my
life as I do at the present time. Since I
came home last November I have made six
quilts and six chair tidies, and knit thirty
pairs of stockings, and have done twenty-five
dollars worth of sewing on the machine, besides
getting breakfast nearly every morning, and
looking after all the house work, and seeing
that the girls kept it done properly. If any of
my sisters can do any more than that, please
write and tell me.
	I have never missed one of our society meet-
ings ever since I have been able to walk to
them. I have visited my district as a Teacher
ever since Christmas. I have been a teacher
here for twenty years and I have always en-
joyed myself so much here, and now I am
going to move to Snake River Valley to live;
our boys are getting big now and will soon
want land, and we have not enough land here.
It will be a trial for me to bid my good sis-
ters good-by; the other day I had a sewing-bee
and invited all I could, in order to get to see
all of their good faces once more before I left
them; we had a jolly nice time, and sewed
about thirty pounds of carpet rags; so now I
can have a new carpet to take with me to my
new home.
	I was just reading such a nice piece in the
EXPONENT, written by some good sister, in re-
gard to taking crying babies to conference; it
reminds me of the last time I heard President
Young speak in conference; there were several
babies crying and he told the mothers next
time to stay at home and take care of the
babies and let their husbands tell them about
the preaching; I have always remembered
that and kept my babies at home.
	As ever your sister in the Gospel,
