PRIMARY CHILDRENS' DAY.

	The first day of June is a sort of red letter day
among the Latter-day Saints, on account of its
having been the day when Brigham Young was
born. In his life time his family were in the habit
of celebrating it in some way in which all could
participate, and since his death some recognition
of it has been made by them, when it was at all
practicable, to bring the family together.
	For a few years past the Primary Associations
have made some sort of demonstration on that day
throughout the Stakes of Zion, and it has become
so general as to be spoken of as the Primary
Childrens' Day. It is a very proper thing for
them to make this a general holiday even in pre-
ference to May Day as in this climate the first of
May is almost too cold to admit of climbing the
hills for wifd-flowers or having any out-door exer-
cises. The firsts of June is usually warm and
bright and the flowers are in the height of bloom
and perfection of sweetness.
	This year the children in Salt Lake Stake have
been disappointed in their day on account of the
Young Men's having appointed their annual
conference to commence then and engaging the
services of two or three hundred of the children
under Brother Stephens training to sing for them.
However they will not be deprived of the pleasure
of a day in Liberty Park as it has been arranged
to gather the children of Salt Lake Stake there
on the following Saturday, June 8th, a band of
music will be engaged to play, and there will be
exercises and games for their amusement, and it
will no doubt be a gala day to the little ones.
President Ellen C. Clawson and her Counselors
and a select committee will have general supervi-
sion and will spare no pains to make it.a complete
success. The different Primary Associations must
provide suitable persons to take special charge of
the children so that there will be no danger from
carelessness or accidents, and the President and
her committee will be relieved of any anxiety in
reference to these matters.


