THE DEAR OLD GARDEN.
My dear old garden! still I call it mine;
And mine it is, for in its grateful shade
Of ev'ry tree, and shrub, and flow'ring vine,
My children and my children's children play'd. 
Round these my aching heart instinctive clings,
And they to me are sweet and tender things.

Under those trees I've sauntered to and fro,
In search of hidden gems of precious thought,
Perchance some wayward fancies all aglow
Have been in chains of measur'd rhythm caught,
For rustling leaves, and sighing boughs have stirred
The depths of love, no loving voice hath heard.

And here young lovers, plighted vows have given,
And sealed them with the first fond ling'ring kiss,
That hallows love, and makes earth seem a heav'n,
A sweet enchanted dream of rapt'rous bliss
When two pure hearts in confidence and truth,
Unite their joys and hopes in early youth.

These trees and shrubs, and ev'ry bush and vine,
We've watched from tiniest seed and stem; 
Why then should I not always call them mine?
For in my heart of hearts I treasure them.
No matter how neglected now they be
They were a part of my home-life to me.
 
Yes, I remember sitting there so well,
With baby in my arms and children round;
And a sweet peace hung o'er me like a spell,
While the white blossoms flutter'd to the ground;
For the young apple trees were just in bloom,
And we were breathing in their sweet perfume.

O, how the childish voices loud and clear,
Rang out in laughter and in merry song;
No wonder that to me the place is dear,
To which so many memories belong,
O, would those days but come to me again 
'Twould ease my heart of all this racking pain.

O, little ones, 'mong the long tangled grass, 
Where butter cups and clover nestled down;
Or like a shadow flitting as you pass,
To gather hollyhocks in "silken gown." 
Or pull the morning glories from the vine
Which gaily round the fav'rite tree entwine. 

And honey suckles fragrant were and fair,
And on them humming birds swung to and fro,
But something fairer, sweeter still was there;
A little maiden, singing soft and low;
O, that melodious voice we hear no more,
Save in our dreams, it echoes o'er and o'er.  

My garden! when the world was dark and cold,
And troubles gather'd thickly round my way;
I wander'd there my feelings to unfold,
'Twas there I knelt upon the ground to pray.
In that old garden thro' the maze of years
I scan life's pages blur'd with mists of tears.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]

