TO THE GENERAL READERS OF THE
EXPONENT.
	I am pleased to note the steps that have been
taken by the women of Zion. It denotes in the
near future a more thorough understanding
with the women of this nation, and, I may say
of other nations; we have long been misunder-
stood, but, by being connected with them
through their Association, it is bound to break
the barier between us, and, an interest, if not
an investigating spirit will toke possession of
them at least in a greater or less degree. Al-
though I do not think it will materially alter
affairs with us as Latter-day Saints (unless it
is to restore to us our franchise,) for as a rule
the "Mormon Women" enjoy a freedom of
speech,and in no place are women curtailed by
"the monster man" as little as in Utah, and
with but few exceptions they feel they have the
sustenance of their husbands, fathers and
brothers. Of course there is occasionally an
exception to this rule, where men think a wo-
man's place is in the kitchen, and extends no
farther than the chip yard, but in sickness, or
absence from home, that self-same woman is
expected to take up those duties and carry them
along as smoothly and intelligently as if her
Leige Lord had always taken a delight in
counseling and instructing her. The majority
of the "Mormon" women have taken but very
little interest in political affairs, the day is nigh
when they will have to inform themselves;
there is a great field for improvement, for
wherever these associations are organized they
will necessarily have to study in order to fill
their positions and keep up with the times.
We will no doubt note a marked difference in
a few years where these organizations are es-
tablished and where they are not.
	I see no reason why the "Mormon" women
should not be snccessful in this new field,surely
you cannot find a more intelligent set of women,
and with study, and determination, and the
Lord to quicken their understanding, there is
no obstacle but what they can surmount.
Sisters let us go to with an energy aud zeal
worthy of such a cause and add to our store-
house of knowledge, and not have it said of us
we had a chance to benefit humanity but did
not avail ourselves of the opportunity.
	Yours in the cause of "Woman's Rights"
		JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Orangeville, Utah.


