		    SEVEIR STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of this stake 
was held in the Relief Society Hall in the 
second ward, Richfield, March 15, 1889, com-
mencing at 10 a.m.  On the platform were


President E. Bean and her counselers, Jane 
Spencer, and Theresa Thurber, and several 
other presidents of branches in the Stake.  
	Conference opened with singing, prayer and 
singing.  Opening remarks by President 
Elizabeth Bean; the seeretary read the minutes 
of the previous conference which were accepted. 
President Bean requested the presidents to re-
port; six presidents reported, each one spoke 
of the benefits of the Relief Society, and of 
storing up of grain; of their societies being in 
good condition, and of the good works being 
performed by tbe sisters.
	President Bean was pleased with the reports; 
thought this a time when our meetings should 
be well attended, and we should meet often.  
Said Sister C. A. Hunt had resigned her posi-
tion as secretary of Seveir Stake, and moved 
that she be released by vote, and also to give 
her a vote of thanks.  Sister Christina Sellers
was then sustained as secretary for the Relief 
Society of Sevier stake.  President Bean gave 
good instructions concerning the storing of 
grain; reminded the sisters of the counsel 
given by President Woodruff.  
	Sister Lucy Heppler spoke on the duties 
of secretaries of various associations, urged them 
to be diligent in their work and to make a re-
cord of all business. 
	At the close of the morning session President 
Bean desired all who were present to come in 
the afternoon.  Singing.  Benediction by 
Sister Lucy Heppler.  Adjourned till 2 p.m. 
	Afternoon session:  Conference continued.  
Singing.  Prayer was offered by Bishop Poulsen 
Singing.  Two more Presidents reported their 
wards in good condition.  
	Counselor Theresa Thurber addressed the 
meeting; she gave good instructions; was much 
pleased with the meeting of yesterday, the 
object being to organize a Woman Suffrage 
Association in Sevier County, hoped that we 
would all realize the importance thereof.  
	Bishop Poulsen was pleased to meet with 
the sisters; said that it needed great efforts on 
the part of the sisters to attend to all their 
duties.  Encouraged the sisters to attend to 
their meetings that they might be benefited
and cheered up; spoke of the charity of the 
Sisters' Societies.  Dwelt on the beauty of
honoring and obeying the principles of the
Gospel.  "All trials and persecutions are cal-
culated to make us a great people; it is neces-
sary for us to undergo all of them."  
	President Bean said that we had in a way
been left to ourselves; the day had come for us
to exert our energies and act for ourselves;
that we had enjoyed many privileges and we
had not appreciated them fully.  "Some day
these blessings might be taken away from us 
and we would miss them."  Bore her testimony 
to the truth of the Gospel.  "We should set a 
good example before our children.  O!  how
mnch rests upon the mothers in the training of 
the children that they might become a light to
the world." 
	President Seegmiller addressed the conference
gave good instructions on how to live, and love
and honor home and country.  Said that the
Constitution of the United States was formed
by men inspired by the Holy Spirit.  
	President Bean made closing remarks.  Con-
ference adjourned for three months to be held
in Richfield.  Singing.  Benediction by Presi-
dent Wm. Seegmiller.  
			CHRISTINA SELLERS, Secretary.


