WASATCH AND UTAH.

	On Wednesday morning, May 15, President
Zina D. H. Young, and Sister Lucy B. Young,
left this city by the morning train, to attend the
conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake at Heber City. They went by way of
Pleasant Grove and across to Charleston where
they arrived the same evening. Next morning,
Thursday, 16, drove to Heber City, accompanied
by the Bishop, and others from Charleston, in-
cluding Sister Emma Brown, who presided at the
Conference. President Hatch, Bishops and other
brethren were present; and much to their surprise
and pleasure, Mrs. Willmirth East a dear and old
friend and acquaintance, who is now President of
the Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake of Arizona.
There was a good feeling and spirit, and sisters
Zina and Lucy Young enjoyed themselves very
much, and felt that they were warmly welcomed
by the people.
	The following day the Primary Association had
their Stake conference in the forenoon, and the
Young Ladies' in the afternoon. Saturday, the 18,
the sisters went to Wallsburg and met with the
Relief Society; then back to Charleston and held
another meeting, returning across the valley to
Provo, where Sister Lucy B. remained a day or
two.
	Monday morning Sister Mary John, President
of the Relief Society of Utah Stake, with her
counselor Sister Manila M. Daniels, accompanied
by President Zina D. H. Young, started for
Pleasant Grove early, and held meeting with the
Relief Society at 10 a.m., then went on to Ameri-
can Fork and met with the Relief Society in the
afternoon, and under the auspices of the Young
People in the evening. In the morning, May, 21,
Bishop George Halladay and a company of
American Fork folks, four carriage loads, drove
to Alpine, where a meeting was held with the
Relief Society, and back to Lehi, the same even-
ing, meeting in the Relief Society Hall. The
next morning, Wednesday, May 22, the party
went over to Cedar Fort and met with the Relief
Society there.
	This completed the tour through the settlements
south of Provo in the Utah Stake, and at each
place, there was every manifestation of welcome
and joy, that could have been anticipated, and the
meetings were well attended. Also in Wasatch
Stake, there was a good and kindly feeling mani-
fested, and the sisters have returned well and in
excellent spirits.


