THE WOMAN'S PAPER.

	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was issued on the
first day of June, 1872—Seventeen years ago—the
day being chosen for its coming forth in honor of
the birthday of Brigham Young who was always
its staunch friend and advocate. He expressed
himself on one occasion to the writer as wishing
it to be kept in its original form, and referred to
the Millennial Star, saying he had always been
glad that the size and form of the paper had been
kept the same, and he wished that to be an ex-
ample for the EXPONENT, or words to that effect.
We are aware that there are many of our readers
who view this matter differently, and have been
anxious to see the homely little paper in better
dress and style, and in the form and keeping of a
magazine of literature. But the EXPONENT is for
the benefit, education and development of thought
of all the sisters in the Church, and to make it
correspond to the needs of the largest number,
and adapt it to their conditions and circumstances
has ever been the object of the editor. We admit
that it was our wish to make the EXPONENT a
weekly, and keep the price the same, but that, we
found at present, to be impracticable, and there-
fore decided to reduce the price in order to in-
crease the circulation which we hope may be a
successful venture, and feel that it ought to be,
as it is the only paper in the Territory published
at a dollar a year. Also at present, the only
woman's paper.
	Since the woman's paper has first been pub-
lished it has certainly been a power and an influ-
ence for good among the people. Many are the
testimonies we have received of its doing a good
missionary work, outside in the world, and in
many a lonely cottage in the new settlements and
colonies it has carried joy and comfort with it, and
it has certainly been the means of developing much
talent among our sisters. There are those men
and women, who are now among the ablest authors
in the Territory who published their first efforts in
the EXPONENT. And there are many important
reasons why it should be better sustained. It
contains the history of the organizations of the
women of the Church, and in a great measure the
history of women themselves, and it also em-
bodies the expression of the thoughts, feelings
and convictions of the majority of the sisters.
	The Mormon women are considerably known
through the EXPONENT. It tells of them, and
speaks forcibly in the hands of the strangers.
Much truth has been inculcated through its
pages, and from strangers who have obtained
copies while visiting here, we have often received
letters of inquiry asking for further information.
Whatever awakens thoughts upon "Mormonism"
is assuredly worth cultivating. The humblest
sister has the opportunity to bear her testimony

[Column 2]

to the world in its columns; and this written
testimony cannot be in vain. It is a portion of
good seed sown, and perchance some of it may
fall in rich soil, and spring up and bear fruit to
the honor and glory of God.
	The cultivation of literature in every age of the
world and among every people is one of the chief
sources of refinement and advancement. Time
was when it was not considered proper for women
to edit papers or write for them; but that day has
past, and at the present time there are quite a
number of papers, and solely devoted to Woman's
Work and Advancement. And every person who
desires to see the women of Zion make rapid pro-
gress in knowledge and intelligence, should re-
member that much of this is done through the
press. There is far too little attention given to
home reading and home conversation upon topics
of interest. If much more time was devoted to
educational culture, and much less to frivolous
games and nonsensical talk, the wisdom of this
generation would be increased, and more lofty
and sublime ideas find expression, in language
that would be exalting and purifying in its tones.
	With the new volume of the EXPONENT, let us
hope for an increase of interest in woman's de-
partment of literature, and the sisters' aid in sus-
taining that, which is for their own special benefit
and advantage, and to give them scope and op-
portunity to express views, opinions, and truths,
on all the variety of subjects that are suited to
their tastes, inclinations and circumstances.
	We trust the Presidents of the Relief Society
in all the several branches, will use their influence
to extend the circulation, and help the agents to
perform their duties in this respect, and if they
do, it will be an easy matter for all concerned.
Many hands make light work.


