EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I submit a few items from this far away place.
Thinking they may be of some interest to some
of your many readers. Our Societies, Pri-
maries, etc., in this part of the country, are, so
far as I know, in a prosperous condition.
	Sister Hannah Romney, who was set apart
by Brother Teasdale, two and a half years ago
to take charge of the primary in Juarez,
served well and faithfully in that capacity uutil
last March, when she resigned on account of
moving away, when Sister Margaret Seevy was
called to fill her place, she and Sister Annie
Ikonsen having been able counselors to Sister
Romney, much good has been accomplished,
and quite an interest taken, especially through
the past winter since the efficient services of
Sister Victoria Pratt have been secured to
teach the children to sing.
	The parents as well as the children gave ex-
pression to the love and respect felt for their
late president; and their appreciation of her
faithful labors, by giving her a very enjoyable
surprise party just prior to her leaving; it was
on the 15th, of March. When nearly all the
town, both old and young, had assembled at the
school house, to witness a school exhibition the
closing day of the term; the exercises passed
off in a very creditable manner to both teacher
and pupils; at the close of which the people
were invited to stay; the house was hastily
cleared, and two long tables the length of the
room set, at which 175 sat down to a bounteous
repast, prepared by a few of our energetic
sisters, including the present officers of the
Primary. It proved to be a genuine surprise,
and as Sister Romney expressed herself there
was one feature in particular which just suited
her feelings viz., the children were all seated
first and the grown people waited on them, and
afterward comprised the second table, which
usually falls to the lot of the little ones. The
table was adorned with a very nice bouquet
and wreath, made for Sister Romney and after
dinner it was presented by some of the little
girls to their late President.
	Since moving to Cliff Ranch, a small branch
of the Juarez Ward, she has been called on to
preside over the little Primary of that place,
with Sister Martha Williams of the adjoining
ranch as assistant, and Sister Victoria Pratt,
who also moved to the same place, to resume
her good labor among the children, so that at
present it is prospering nicely, and is attended
by every woman and child in the little settlement
except the large boys who can't be spared from
the field, and the Sunday School includes all
the men, women, and children, as the parents
seem to realize the necessity of setting a good
example before their children in these little
nooks and corners. A Primary has been or-
ganized at Cave Valley with Sister Olive
Moffet, President, and a Relief Society for our
little settlements combined, with Sister Dora
Pratt as President.
	On "May Day," nearly all of the sisters, and
children of all sizes, with a few of the brethren,
who could spare the time at this busy season,
from Cave Valley and Cliff Ranch, met half
way between the two places, at Williams
Ranch, where they were cordially greeted by
the three families living there, and a very
pleasant time was spent in the pine grove under
the supervision of the Primary presidents.
The time was spent in various games and
amusements, picnic, songs, dialogues and reci-
tations, and crowning of the May Queen, Miss
Alta Williams, with a garland of nature's
sweetest of offerings, beautiful violets, daisies,
and other sweet white flowers with every shade 
of green. Our celebration was a grand suc-
cess as a day of enjoyment. The only disap-
pointment being that music did not arrive 
in time to finish up with a dance.

[Column 2]

	 I understand that a nice time was also en-
joyed at Juarez on this day.
		I am as every your well wisher.
			A CORRESPONDENT.
	Sierra Madre Mountains, Mexico, May 9, '89.


