BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

	This Majestic pile, which the reflective mind
contemplates with awe, looms up before the eye,
beyond the imposing tower of the houses of
parliament. While gazing at it the mind

[Column 2]

glances back to the time of the birth and in-
fancy of the great church, when it was built on
the Isle of Thorns, by Sebert, king of the East
Saxons, who died in 616. It then descends to
a time several hundred years later—to Edward
the Confessor—and recalls the incident when
he was attending mass, of his seeing the Savior
as a luminous child—or thought he saw Him.
Owing to that circumstance, prompted by a
feeling of religious enthusiasm, while an exile,
he vowed that if ever he returned he would
make a pilgrimage to Rome for the purpose of
showing his religious devotion. Circumstances,
however, prevented him from doing so. To be
released from his oath Pope Leo IX told him
that he might build a church in honor of Saint
Peter. To carry his purpose into execution
the confessor concluded to erect a church upon
the site of that built by Sebert. He destroyed
the old building, and erected what was an
enormous one for that time, as it covered all the
land occupied by the present building.
	The foundation was laid in 1049, and the
building was consecrated December 28, 1065—
less than a year previous to the battle of Hast-
ings. Henry III was the second patron of the
abbey. It was rebuilt by him in the years
from 1245 to 1272. Edward I continued the
work which had been begun by his father. In
1502 the Lady chapel was pulled down by
Henry VII, and his own built in its place.
Queen Mary refounded the monastery and
Queen Elizabeth the school. Very little of the
original church now remains. This wonderful
building always contains for the traveler some-
thing of fresh interest.
	Saint Paul's cathedral, with all its beauty, is
second in attraction to Westminster abbey.
The latter is not only famous as an ancient
church, but more so on account of being the
resting-place of most of the illustrious dead of
England.
	There is an exceeding charm about the great
pile, for it actually records most of what has
been great in England—philosophers, states-
men, soldiers, poets, artists, and musicians, all
lie here. And the inspection of the tombs is
like seeing them face to face, for in this great
sanctuary we recall their great deeds.
	Westminster abbey contains, as one might
say, the sum total of what has built England.
Here one sees an inscription which tells of the
past glory of the nation—of one who has con-
tributed his mite toward the upbuilding of his
country. Here a chancellor of the exchequer,
under Elizabeth; there a soldier who defended
his land in a time of peril. It is curious to
observe the different styles of tombs, from the
plain forms at the time of William Rufus to 
the extremely ornate ones of Elizabeth's
day.

