OUR CHILDREN.

	Poor, tired mother! I know how worn out
you feel when evening comes. The thought of
resting a few moments, without hearing the least
noise from the little ones, who have required your
constant attention all day long, almost prompts


you to say "yes" when two or three pleading
voices unite, in asking if they may go outside to
play, just a little while.
	Well,—Say "yes" but add, "I will go with you
my darlings, we will have a nice little walk, and
then come home and go to bed."
	"Oh! I'm too tired for that," you think. But,
think again. It will cost you less time, and
strength and anxiety, to go with them for a stroll,
than either to hunt them up and get them all in
again, if they go out without you; or to get them
quieted and off to bed, without a few moments
recreation in the fresh, open air, since their hearts
are set on it, and their natures require it.
	Go out with them; it will do you more good
than lying on the sofa, and wondering what will
occur to make "Willie" think of how late it is
growing, and that he ought to come in. Nearly
every home has its "Willie," does it not? And
"Willie" of course, is the "Wild Lamb" of the
flock. (The Latter-day Saints do not rear "Black
Sheep" in their precious human folds.)
	Have I convinced you that you had better leave
work, rest, and even the half hour's reading you
have been anticipating all day, and go with your
children and help them to enjoy themselves and
"be good?" If I have, now listen to the sweet
music of the glad, young voices, cheering and ex-
tolling your kindness and wisdom. You are more
than paid already, for any seeming sacrifice you
may have made for their sake.
	There is nothing like entering into the child-
ren's sports with them, to make them feel that they
have your sympathies, no other way of
controling them so entirely by force of love.
	I know some children who have their "Play
Evening" at home, regularly once a week.. This
supplies so many wants which would otherwise
be sadly felt. Always when occasion will per-
mit, the mother is with them during the entire
evening. If circumstances unavoidably occur, to
occupy the mother's time in some other way, the
verdict of the children is, "We haven't had a bit
of a nice time, because you were not with us."
Oh! mothers. Be with your little ones all you
can, while you may. It will pay you better than
any other business you can possibly engage in.
		LULA.


[Column 1]

