EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have also received an exquisite bouquet of
mountain wild flowers that gladdened the eye and
brought up many tender memories. These were
the gift of Miss Annie Christiansen of Farming-
ton.
	We acknowledge with much pleasure the gift of
a box of choice flowers and among them a perfect
fig on its stem, from Mrs. M. O. Kelting of
Southern California. The perfume was so intense
that its sweetness filled the house. Many thanks
for the delicate favor.
	On Tuesday 7th, of May in company with
President Zina D. H. Young of this City, and
Sisters Sarah S. Richards and Hattie C. Brown
of Ogden we visited Hooper, Weber County, to
attend a meeting of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Adeline Belnap presiding. There was a good at-
tendance of the sisters in the vicinity though the
day was disagreeable which very likely hindered
many from coming, We dined at Bishop Belnap's
and enjoyed the visit there very much on account
of meeting there one of the illustrious women of
the early days in the Church, Sister Mary Knight
widow of Vincent Knight mentioned in the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants. We also had an in-
teresting conversation about Mexico with Brother
Stowell who drove the carriage over from Ogden
with Sisters Richards and Brown and took us to
and from Hooper Switch to our destination.
	On the 24th of May Bishop Millen Atwood of
the 13th Ward, attained the age of seventy-two
years. And in his honor, the young people of
the Ward under the care and management of his
Counselor, Nelson Empey, prepared a party for
him; and all was arranged so quietly, that it
proved a perfect surprise, and the affair was in-
deed a complete success, and very enjoyable.
The tables were handsomely decorated with 
flowers, and the refreshments were dainty and
tempting. President Wilford Woodruff and Pre-
sident Geo. Q. Cannon were present, and each
made a few congratulatory remarks. Apostle F.
D. Richards pronounced the blessing upon the
food, which was gracefully served by the young
ladies of the ward. There had been a programme
prepared for the evening including an address by
Dr. Barney, which we will give in our next issue.
Meantime, the EXPONENT extends hearty  con-
grattulations to the venerable Bishop, with many
happy birthday anniversaries in the future.
	We have examined the work entitled "Treasure
House of Useful Knowledge," compiled and
edited by Henry B. Scrammell, assisted by experts
in every deparment. It most assuredly is mul-
turn in parvo, and would be a most useful book in
the household. It is divided into six general
departments, which include specific, brief instruc-
tion in a sort of practical way. First, Chemistry
and Health; Second, Domestic Life; Third, Farm
Interests; Fourth, Mechanical Arts; Fifth, Mer-
cantile Life; Sixth, Refinements. Under these
several headings will be found much valuable in-
formation, given in a way that will perhaps save
one desiring to look up the matter, going over
half a dozen volumes. In these days, when time
seems so important a factor, a book of this kind
ought to sell well. Prices. $3.50; plain cloth
binding; $4.00; gilt cloth binding; $4.75, half 
morroco, library. The book contains 1,616 pages,
and is in excellent plain type for reading. H. A.
Hess has the general agency for the Territory.
	On Friday, April 26th, 1889, at 4.p.m. the an-
nual meeting of the Primary Association of the
13th Ward was held in the Assembly Rooms.
Miss Kate Wells presiding. Singing, "The
Childrens Song Prayer," and Bishop Atwood
offered the opening prayer; children sang "Song
of the Seasons." Minutes read, and accepted.


Programme, "Address to the Primary" Johnnie
Merrill. Song, Irene Merrill. Questions on the
first Primary answered by Ray Grant; Essay on
"Truth," Charlie Peterson.  Song, Agnes Kenner,
"Rockaby Baby," accompaniment by Miss Strom-
berg. Questions asked by Miss Agnes McDonald
answered by the children. Recitation Lettie
Carter, "Let the old cat die." Song, Lilie and
May Burt. Dialogue "The Mormon Missionary,"
Misses Aggie McDonald, May Merrill, Charlie
A. Wells, Gertie Peterson C. Reading and Victor
Stromberg. Remarks were made by Sisters
Lilie Freeze, Ellen C. Clawson, Zina D. H.
Young. The children sang, "We are the children
of the Saints," then brief addresses from Sisters
B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells and Relief C. Atwood.
Sang, "Let us all speak kind words to each other,"
dismissed with prayer by the Bishop. There has
been a very decided improvement in this Associa-
tion during the last few years, and the President
and her aids are deserving of great credit for their
zeal and earnestness in training the little ones
in the paths of duty and obedience and correct
principles. A noble and grand labor for the young
women of Zion.


