EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Manti North Ward, is
still alive and striving, with unabated energy,
to do all the good that lies in their power. Our
President, Sister Wareham,said to me "write"
and I will endeavor to acquiesce to her
wishes. The pen wielded by a competent hand,
is "mightier than the sword," but in my feeble
grasp, and with my crude ideas may not amount
to much more than a last year's bird's nest.
	I am—as I think all women should be—
much interested in the question of Woman's
emancipation. How slow men are to concede

[Column 2]

any rights to women except the right to bear
children, to wash dishes, patch, darn, mend
&c. O, I have served my time at these glorious
occupations, and know whereof I speak.
	It is customary for "the lords of creation "in
an argument with women, to quote Paul rather
extensively. Paul says if a woman lack wis-
dom" &c. Paul says "it is a shame" &c. Yes
I know it is a shame, and we feel the shame-
fulness of our position as relegated to us by
the men, and ashamed of our backwardness in
asserting the privileges God intended us to
enjoy.
	I am aware that "Paul" says a great many
good things, and now let us ask, Who was
Paul? In the first place Paul was a Roman,
second an educated lawyer, third he was a
bachelor as we learn from reading, 1st. Cor.,
7th Chap. 7th and 8th verses, fourth he tells
us in his defence before Agrippa that he was
"raised a Pharisee" in the strictest sense of the 
word, and last we know, he did not enjoy that
constant and elevating association with Jesus,
which the other apostles were privileged to en-
joy, and, which might have softened, or slightly
ameliorated his views toward women. Men also
quote Peter where he says "Wives obey your
husbands even as Sarah obeyed Abraham."
How did Sarah obey Abraham? We read that
Sarah wanted Abraham to do something that
was "very grievous" to him, and that God said
unto him, "In all that Sarah hath said unto
thee, hearken unto her voice," and Abraham 
did accordingly; comment is unnecessary. We
will pass by many of the generous, forgiving
brotherly sayings of Jesus to the women men-
tioning only two. When He tarried at the
house of Mary and Martha, (I am only a Martha
but am endeavoring to prepare myself to fill
the sphere of a Mary) Martha being relegated
to the kitchen, with a heavy task before her as
Jesus seldom traveled alone, and in all proba-
bility the company to be entertained was a
large one, and doubtless a hungry one, and
Martha being "cumbered with much serving"
asked Jesus to send Mary to assist her. And
Jesus answerd, "Martha, Martha, thou art care-
ful and troubled about many things. But one
thing is needful Mary hath chosen the better
part and it shall not be taken away from her."
Why was Mary's presence so desirable in the
parlor? Her vivacity, her sallies of wit, her
buoyant spirits, her gaiety, her sprightliness,
her dignified demeanor, the depths of her
reasoning powers, all lent a charm, when
mingled with the more sober aspect of those
devout men, that they were loth to dispense
with; in fact she was the light and life of that
august company.
	Follow Him to the cross, and were not some
of his latest expressions of thoughtful tender-
ness, addressed to the women?
	Again, at the tomb, on the morn of His
resurrection. Who was the first person ad-
dressed by Him? A woman. Who received
the first mission to "Tell the glad tidings." A
woman!  I expect in these last days to again
hear of Women being sent to "tell the glad
tidings," when He comes again.
	And let the women prepare themselves for
this glorious call, it will surely come when
Jesus does. And may it be my happy lot to
be found with my lamp trimmed and burning
is the prayer of a woman who is still in her,
		A. B. C,s.
	March 18th, 1889.


