W. S. A. IN JUAB COUNTY.﻿

	In answer to a call made by a few of the
most influential women of Juab County, for a
meeting to be held, a large number of citizens
both ladies and gentlemen, assembled at the
tabernacle, Nephi, at 2 p.m., March 11, 1889,
to organize a Suffrage Association. Miss L.
A. Schofield nominated Mrs. M. Pitchforth to
act as chairman. Seconded by several ladies,
after which the motion was put and carried.
On motion of Mrs. A. L. Bigler, Mrs M. E.
Teasdale was nominated Secretary of the meet-
ing; seconded and carried. Mrs. S. A. An-
drews then offered prayer. The Secretary then
read the call. Miss L. A. Schofield was then
elected President by unanimous vote. Mrs.
E. B. Bryan was elected First Vice Presidenst
Mrs. M. E. Neff Second Vice President; Mr;.
M. A. Cazier third Vice President; Miss
Louie Udall, Secretary; Mrs. Annie L. Atkin,
Recording, and Corresponding Secretary; Mrs.
L. A. Hartley, Treasurer.
	The following named ladies were elected by
unanimous vote, to act as an Executive Board:
Mrs. M. A. Grover, chairman; Mrs. M: E.
Whitmore, Mrs. Sarah Abbott, Mrs. W. H.
Jones, Miss Emma Adams, Mrs. Mercy Wright,
nd Mrs. Julia Paxman. Miss Louie Udall
read the Constitution of the National Woman
Suffrage Association; after which a motion was
made that the same be adopted. Seconded
and carried by unanimous vote. Mrs. Annie
Atkins read the By-Laws of the Salt Lake

[Column 2]

Woman Suffrage Association. Read by
sections and adopted separately.
	After the organization was effected, Mr. F.
W. Chappell addressed the assembly. He
said: "You have been called together to-day,
to organize a Suffrage Association. The sub-
ject under discussion, is one of vital importance,
to be entrusted with the Elective Franchise.
The ladies of America have more to do than
any one else, with the shaping and moulding
of the character of their children. The ladies
have always been true to any trust reposed in
them. If women voted it would have a puri-
fying effect upon Politics. Ladies have the
interest of the Country at heart, and I do not
think they would sell their votes for gold as
men do. How could a lady teach her children
Republican principles and form of government,
unless she had a practical experience? We
have more to fear from the ignorant votes of
our citizens, than from she muskets of our
enemies."
	Mr. W. H. Jones said he had listened atten-
tively to the Constitution and By-Laws. "The
acquiring of Civil and Political government,
is based on the home, and who has more to
do with home than woman. Men and women
should go hand in hand, and cause no conflict.
When a great movement is agitated it is always
opposed." Quoted Longfellow to illustrate
his ideas. "Man is not without the woman
nor woman without the man." Quoted from
the Constitution of the United States, the 13-
14 and l5 ammendments and explained their
meaning. "The women of Utah had the
Franchise at one time, and they did not abuse
it. Woman had an insight into the character
of man, and she would not vote for a man un-
less he had a good character. No mam who is
not a good husband and father, has a right to
a position of honor."
	Mr. J. W. Paxman said "there is nothing 
objectional in the platform adopted. Women
should have an interest in this movement.
They have my sympathy, and I will aid and
encourage them all in my power. It is no
greater honor to go forth to fight for our rights
than to stand up bravely in defense of them."
	Miss L. A. Schofield said: "every lady
should feel it her duty to make an effort to
obtaiu the Franchise. Many do not under-
stand the true meaning of Woman Suffrage.
Some think woman is trying to usurp man's
rights. Not so! She ouly desires to stand
side by side with him, and share those privil-
eges he values as inestimable. Let the mothers
understand Politics, and their children will
become better citizens, and more intelligent
voters. Was there ever a great cause started
that woman did not wield a mighty influence
in it? She should educate, and fit, and prepare
herself to walk side by side with man.
'Woman was not taken from man's head to
rule over him, nor from his feet to be trampled
upon by him, but from his side to be equal
with him.'"
	Mr. C. Sperry approved the movement of
the ladies, thought they had a right to the
Franchise. He was satisfied that it was benefi-
cial when they exercised it in this Territory.
	The ladies manifested their appreciation of
the sentiments expressed by the speakers, by
frequent and hearty applause.
	The meeting was adjourned to meet in the
R. S. Hall, at 4 p.m. May 21, 1889.
	At the close a number of ladies gave their
names for membership.
		M. E. TEASDALE, Secretary.


