KEEP US FROM FALLING.

	Our Savior says "Whatever is highly esteemed
among men is an abomination in the sight of
God." And to "Seek first for the kingdom of
heaven and all other things shall be added there-
to. For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain
the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what
shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"
	Surrounded, and mixed up with the world aud
its temptations which are calculated to draw the
mind, and affections away from that path which
the Lord has marked out, into forbidden ones that
lead down to eternal misery, and to endure the
scoffs and derisions of the proud, be hated of
all men, persecuted, imprisoned, and slain for
seeking to live the religion of Christ, requires a
strength and determination unknown among the
modern professors of Christianity. The Latter-
day Saints have learned that to be saved requires
something more than merely to believe on Jesus,
that faith without works is dead, and also that it
is a life-time work to become fit for the kingdom
of heaven. Though the cost may be taken into
consideration by the converts, previous to going
down into the waters of baptism, it is impossible
for them to realize the extent of the trials, and sac-
rifices which the Lord will require at their hands
before they can become pure and spotless in His
sight, to be fitted and prepared to enter into His
rest. More particularly is this the case when they
are filled with the first love of the gospel. For
the Holy spirit makes one feel that no trial or
temptation can be too great for them to meet and
overcome. But in the day of adversity, when
that spirit is withdrawn, when they are over-
whelmed in the darkest clouds of temptation, and
heavy waves of sorrow and tribulation roar and
dash with hopeless fury upon the frail and help-
less beings, mistrusting themselves, and fearing,
and trembling lest they be swept away, then they
begin to realize more fully what it costs to be a
saint.
	Those who are firm in the faith know that God
who created every living thing, and planned the
redemption and restoration of every soul, can
willingly trust Him, knowing that He will place
no more upon them than He will give them grace
to bear, and that He tries them only according to
their capacity to endure. He has commissioned
angels who will intercede for His children and
ever stand beside them in the hour of danger, and
affliction, unless their acts are such as to grieve
and drive them away. He has given to all their
free agency, and it is every one's privilege to act
upon that agency. We all have an individual
work to perform, and it is to our own interest

[Column 2]

that we work to this end, and bear in mind, this
fact that our Maker has ordained, and made us
subject to the weaknesses of the flesh to keep us
humble. And that it is not for one to boast above
another, or say "I am more righteous than thou."
For though we may be comparatively free from
certain faults that we see in a brother or sister, it
is not improbable that we are given to just as
great, and may be greater ones. And this should
cause us to examine, and dig deep into our own
hearts for those evils, which perchance are hidden
from our sight while they are being freely dis-
cussed by our neighbors. Remembering that
though we do right in all other things and lack
charity we will be rejected by our Father in the
day of His coming, We may well ask how much
longer are we to be chastened to bring us to that
oneness which is required,and must exist through-
out the length and breadth of the church of God
in fulfilment of the great and marvelous plan of
salvation, and redemption, which we are looking
for in this the last dispensation of the fulness of
times. These are things which should absorb the
thoughts, and stir up the minds of all professing
the name of Latter-day Saint, especially by those
who have been privileged to set their feet upon this
soil, to make homes among these mountain fast-
nesses, which the Lord preserved for His people
as a safe gathering place for those who wish to
build up Zion. Those who have not yet reached
the true standard themselves should be careful in
condemning another, and realize that we are not
all constituted alike, having been born and be-
gotten under circumstances as various as are our
features, or as one star in the heavens above us
varies from the other, and upon whom none but
the Great Ruler of the universe is able to pass a
correct and just judgment. Few are capable of
being merciful as He is merciful toward the weak
and erring who, because they have wandered, or
perhaps fallen into some snare set for their feet,
are by some deemed to be past all redemption.
Many who deem themselves saints would treat
them with disdain, and even call in question those
who would act the part of the true Samaritan.
Like the Pharisees who questioned the propriety
of Christ's sitting at meat with publicans and
sinners when He answered "Them that be whole
need no physician, but they that are sick."
	This classification, which we see growing in the
midst of the Latter-day Saints, is among the
stumbling blocks in the way of the weak, whose
faith has not been sufficiently established in the
truth to cling to it, and to the behests of the Al-
mighty regardless of the acts committed by mem-
bers of His church; and this is another reason
for increased diligence on their part in seeking
for His Spirit, and that perfect knowledge that
will enable them to discern the difference between
the works of God, and those of man. The Saints
are to be tried in all things, in prosperity as well
as adveristy, and those whose carnal desires sur-
pass their love of the true riches may be gratified,
but to their condemnation. "Where much is
given much is required." I have known many
who once rejoiced in this Gospel, but as soon as
the sun of prosperity began to shine upon them,
they forgot the Giver and were lifted up in pride,
and became slothful servants, and apostacy was
generally the result. "The earth is the Lord's
and the fulness thereof," and He has promised
to all those who will seek first the kingdom of
heaven, that all other things shall be added thereto.
He, in kindness, has witheld from His people
what in their youth and inexperience would
doubtless have proven the destruction of the
majority, as was shown in the start, at Kirtland,
Ohio. "No man can serve two masters, for he
will either hate the one and love the other, or else
he will hold to the one and despise the other; ye
cannot serve God and mammon." Where His
bounties have been used properly, to the building
up of His kingdom, feeding and clothing, and

[Column 3]

making the poor to rejoice, etc., instead of seek-
ing self-aggrandisement, hoarding or squandering
it on unworthy objects, to the gratification of un-
holy lusts, His blessings upon such have been
richly poured out, temporally and spiritually. I
have known a few of this class, and I have known
not a few who might have gathered around them
an abundance of the good things of this earth,
but desired rather to spend their lives and their
all, laboring in the Lord's vineyard bringing souls
into His kingdom.
	The wealth of this world cannot bring happiness
as it has proven to thousands. Though Dame
Fortune is often prodigal. she is most fickle, and
as we read in the good book, "it is an easy thing,
in the spirit of the Lord, on a sudden to make a
poor man rich. Wealth and all things else are
from God. Many kings have sat down upon the
ground, and one that was never thought of hath
worn a crown." Nobility and excellence are to be
admired, and should be honored wherever
found; and equally odious is the class whose
loftiest ambition is to "shine in society," and
conceitedly rank themselves peers, because their
spoke in the wheel of time happens to be upwards,
and feel themselves superior in ratio. And the
mind that has become so warped and contracted,
as to measure a person's worth by his worldly
advantages and possessions, and feel it condecency
or bemeaning to associate with a brother or sister
because of their lowly circumstances here, they
will hardly be prepared to dwell with the Redeemer
of the world, who was of the poorest and the most
despised and hated,during his earthly pilgrimage,
and said to his disciples, "Blessed are the poor in
spirit for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."
"Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the
earth." I have met many in the lowliest walks,
in my associations through life, whose brightness
and superior intelligence demanded my greatest
respect and admiration. They were often found
in possession of superior knowledge their educa-
tion being far in advance of those whose groveling
minds soar no higher than this world with its
fleeting and innumerable shams, and mockeries,
caring only for its flattery and their present ag-
grandizement.
	There will be found at the close of this short
career, some wonderful and unlooked for dis-
closures. Many a one who has appeared in the
humblest garbs and been looked down upon as
unworthy the notice of the illustrious ones who
judge of one's qualifications by their outward
adornments, will be found in positions before the
throne of God that will cause a sensation similar
to that of the Jews when they learn that Jesus,
whom they held in scorn and derision and cruci-
fied was truly the Christ.
	The following extracts from a "Revelation
given through Joseph the Seer at Kirtland Ohio,
June, 1831" are profitable for all of us "Harken
O, ye my people who profess my name, saith the
Lord your God, for behold, mine anger is kindled
against the rebellious, and they shall know mine
arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation
and of wrath upon the nations.
	"And he that will not take up his cross and fol-
low me, and keep my commandments, the same
shall not be saved.
	"Behold thus saith the Lord unto my people
you have many things to do and to repent of for
behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are
not pardoned because you seek to counsel in your
own ways.
	"And your hearts are not satisfied, and ye obey
not the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteous-
ness.
	"Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your
substance to the poor, for your riches will canker
your souls; and this shall be your lamentation
in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of
indignation,—the harvest is past, the summer is
ended, and my soul is not saved!


"Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not
broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose
bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not
stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods,
whose eyes are full of greediness, who will not
labor with your own hands!
	"But blessed are the poor who are pure in heart
whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are
contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God,
coming in power and great glory unto their deliver-
ance, for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs.
For behold, the Lord shall come, and His re-
compense shall be with Him, and He shall re-
ward every man, and the poor shall rejoice.
	And their generations shall inherit the earth
from generation to generation, forever and ever.
And now I make an end of speaking unto you.
Even so, Amen.
