Louise Yates Robison
PRESIDENT OF NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
By Jennie Brimhall Knight
Across the street from our home stands a group of beautiful, large maple trees. For a long time they have been a constant joy to all who come their way. The green leaves of spring speak hope, testifying of the coming of grateful shade to relieve the hot summer sun. Then, with their message of good cheer, beautiful beyond expression of brush or pen, come the glorious tints of autumn. These trees were planted by Louise Yates Robison when Provo was her home city. They are typical of her, for throughout her life she has sought to have beauty take the place of barrenness, to see that comfort and succor come to the rescue of those exposed to the fiery darts of want and poverty, and with words of cheer to make more colorful and happy the lives of the downhearted and depressed.
Among women who are blessed in being well born is our new president. Her birth occurred in Millard County on May 27, 1866. Her father was Thomas Yates; her mother, Elizabeth Francis Yates. She says, "I am thankful that I was born to those splendid parents, who were refined, spiritual and loving." Throughout life her father and mother were devoted lovers. They left their native land for the faith they had in the gospel, and bequeathed to their children a reverence for God, for his works, for his promises. Their daughter, following their worthy example, has a perfect trust in the Lord and deep respect for his authority here on earth. In pioneer days her father was bishop of Scipio; her mother a worker in the ward Relief Society and later president of the Millard Stake Relief Society?facts that bear witness to their leadership.
When very young Louise learned to share with others her food and shelter as well as the companionship of her father and mother. In this home the foundation was laid for our new president's work in the Relief Society.
Sister Robison got her schooling in her home town and was for a season a student at the Brigham Young University. At that time Karl G. Maeser was principal?a fact that she appreciates. With hundreds of other students she received abundant spiritual enrichment through contact with his life.
When a very young girl she was married to Joseph Lyman Robison, and thus her career as a student was cut short. Millard County has produced more than its share of gifted people, a fact indicating that a number of unusual families located in that section. Among these was the Robison family, and Joseph Lyman is a scion of that stock. It has been my good fortune to know the members of these families rather well and whenever they speak of young men of promise of Millard County, of the earlier period, they usually name Joseph Lyman Robison as one of them.
Many years of Mrs. Robison's life have been devoted to home making. Her two sons, like her brother Thomas, an engineer, are of the professional class. Her eldest son, Harold, who received his M. D. at the Rush Medical College in Chicago and his Master's Degree in Philadelphia, is a prominent physician of Los Angeles, California. Her son Rulon is endowed with exceptional musical ability; he has a rich tenor voice and is a member of the faculty of the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. She has four daughters?Florence, Winifred, Gladys and Dorothy, all married. Their mother's tribute is "my daughters are as successful homemakers and mothers as my sons are successful professional men." People who have come in contact with this family have been impressed by their mutual devotion and by the endearing terms with which they address each other. Having seen some of the daughters, I know that their mother is justified in her estimate of their ability.
In one capacity or another Louise Yates Robison has served the Church a great many years of her life. Before her marriage she was an officer in the Y. L. M. I. A.; for several years thereafter she was at home with her babies. She says "when they were old enough for me to leave them, I again began Mutual work." For many years she served as president of the First Ward Mutual in Salt Lake City, and later she was president in the Emerson Ward. Then came the period of her service on the Granite Stake Relief Society Board, followed by a call to the presidency of that Board. She was serving in the capacity of first counselor to President Leonora T. Harrington when she was placed on the General Board of the Relief Society and the Executive Committee in the position of second counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams. Sister Robison has also served on the Granite Stake Board of Genealogy, doing active work with Richard Summerhays.
During the war her very efficient service was generally appreciated, particularly by the Red Cross, for whom she did conspicuous work. Her special work at that time was in surgical dressings. She took training and later was sent out by the Red Cross as an instructor. She presided in the gauze room at the Gardo House. True to her nature, she cannot think of these wartime experiences without connecting it with the friendships that resulted from the work. Many a thought she devotes to the "fine women who gave their service to the Red Cross during that period of storm and stress."
Temple work is dear to her heart. She has said that there are no moments of her life when the spiritual seems to dominate so completely and push from her all that is earthly as when she is in the Temple doing the work of that Sacred House. She particularly appreciates her good fortune in being able to attend the dedicatory services of the Mesa Temple in Arizona. During that memorable week President Grant gave her an invitation to be present at every session?a courtesy which she deeply appreciates.
In positions of leadership Sister Robison is modest and unassuming. On April 2, 1921, when her name was announced as counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams, she turned to Leonora T. Harrington, her stake president, and said, "I didn't know there was another woman by that name in the Church." Much to her astonishment, Mrs. Harrington answered, "Why, that's you." From the moment of her entrance on the General Board she has been energetically interested in Relief Society problems. During convention and conference periods she has visited more stakes than her real quota. No personal interest has ever stood in the way of her answering the call of the organization. It is superfluous to say that she is industrious. Her record of achievement bears eloquent testimony to this fact. She has spent many hours in the office when all others were gone. Besides her regular work as counselor, she has acted as chairman of a number of important committees. At her suggestion and under her supervision, a Church-wide campaign for home beautification was launched, resulting in unforeseen and extraordinary interest throughout the stakes of the Church. At present she is a member of the Travelers' Aid Society, having attended two national conventions of this organization. This year her name is published as one of the directors of the Utah Tuberculosis Association. Her interest in social welfare problems has taken her to two conferences for social workers, one held at Denver, Colorado, and the other at Toronto, Canada. She is an active member of the State Conference of Social Work and of other organizations interested in community welfare.
Her kindly solicitude for all and her art of greeting each with endearing terms, coupled with her sympathy and patience, have proved invaluable assets in her work in the burial clothes department. This branch of the work of the Relief Society has been a notable success under her management. The bereaved and sorrowing, whenever they have entered her office, have found a haven of peace during those anxious hours when they are performing the last tender service for loved ones.
On October 7, 1928, President Grant presented her name at the Semi-annual Conference for General President of the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church?a position that she will doubtless fill with the same enthusiasm, energy, and faith that she has put into all other positions to which she has been called.
Sister Robison is interested in the progress of women the world over. Consequently, she has a vision of the great work to be done and the courage to do her part. She is full of faith and has an understanding heart. She comes to this notable position well qualified to fill it with dignity and honor. Our thoughts of her lead us to substitute the feminine for the masculine and repeat the words of the third paragraph of the first psalm in expressing our faith in our new President, Louise Yates Robison. "And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water; that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; and his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper."