presidency and General Board of the Relief Society in April, 1921, Julia was called to the General Board, and served during the entire presidency of President Clarissa S. Williams. It is constantly borne out that the human spirit has its greatest development when it is exercising leadership. How many-sided this great quality is in Mrs. Child may be understood, when, in addition to her Church work and other educational contacts, some of her civic activities are suggested. She has been Vice-Regent and member of the Daughters of the Revolution, a member of the Board of the Utah Public Health Association, Director and Vice President of Salt Lake City Congress of Parent Teachers, and member of the Board of Directors of the Civic Center.
Mrs. Child's public life has been the subject of this sketch up to this point, and splendid as is this extensive public service to her fellowmen, to those who know her best, there is a side which challenges even greater admiration, and that is her beautiful home life. She was reared in a real Latter-day Saint household, which was charged with the spirit of physical, mental, and spiritual vitality. In that home, generous hospitality was coupled with the thought that education is primarily a means to make men better, and that it is useless to fill them with knowledge or stir them to action unless it is all governed by the spirit that gives a higher conception to life. These ideals were carried to fruition in Mrs. Child's own home.
On June 3, 1908, she was married to George N. Child, a worthy companion for a noble wife. He is, at present, the honored Superintendent of the Salt Lake City Schools. She is the mother of one daughter and two sons. These have found in their mother all that the sacred name implies; but the tender and wonderful manner in which she has filled the place to her husband's five other children, is one of her greatest achievements. In this, as in all her fields of labor, she has used "knowledge as the instrument of successf