COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman By Mary Connelly Kimball
Amy Brown Lyman, honored and loved, in the full fruition of her splendid powers, comes to the Presidency of the Relief Society fully trained, informed, equipped to become at once effective in her new office as counselor to President Louise Y. Robison. She loves the Relief Society work and those engaged in it. She is frank and outspoken and her president will know just where she stands, and will find in her a valuable counselor, a considerate helper, a true supporter.
The virility of stock continues generation after generation. Mrs. Lyman evidences that sturdy, dependable, calm, judicious heritage that is hers from pioneer parents. Her grandfather was a graduate of the University of Berlin; her father, John Brown, was educated for the Baptist ministry. He was one of the original pioneers, and, with Orson Pratt, he has the distinction of being the first of the Pioneer Band to see the Salt Lake Valley. His scholarship made him outstanding. For many years he was mayor of Pleasant Grove and bishop of the ward. Her mother was a lover of books, sincere, charitable, and deeply religious. The home was one of love, peace, and good will. The children were taught to do right in such a way that it seemed to them the natural thing to do.
On February 7, 1872, Amy came to gladden her parents' home at Pleasant Grove. There were ten children in the home; hence she knew the joy of growing up in a big family, with the discipline in unselfishness that comes from yielding to the wishes and welfare of others. A student from childhood, she went from the schools of Pleasant Grove to the Brigham Young University, graduating in the class of 1890. For four years thereafter she taught in the training school of her Alma Mater. Following this she taught in the public schools of Salt Lake City for two years. On September 9, 1896, she was married to Dr. Richard R. Lyman, now of the Council of the Twelve. The union has been a most happy one. Two children have brought joy to their home, Wendell and Margaret. Both have graduated from the University of Utah with degrees. Wendell has been very successful in business, and Margaret has spent years in studying the cello at home, in New York and in Paris. She is now the wife of Alexander Schreiner, one of America's leading organists and a brilliant pianist.
Amy began her church work at the age of eleven as secretary of a ward Primary. She has acted in all the offices of a ward Y. L. M. I. A. and as teacher in Sunday School. It is in the Relief Society, however, that her most outstanding public work has been done. On October 5, 1909, she was called to the General Board. On May 5, 1911, she became assistant secretary and in August, 1913, she became General Secretary. She has served as assistant manager of the Magazine since its establishment. In addition to her valuable and interesting "Notes From the Field" she has prepared guide lessons for the use of the society.
Very few have the secretarial ability that Mrs. Lyman has. She is careful, accurate, painstaking. She has the knack of writing the most important proceedings and the best things said at a meeting. Mrs. Lyman leaves the minute files complete from the year of the organization of the Relief Society in 1842 up to the present time. She has assembled historical data covering the period between the Nauvoo meetings and the organization of the General Board in 1892. The minutes are arranged with topical marginal headings and are carefully indexed and cross indexed so that information is available at a moment's notice. She also leaves a complete file of bound volumes of stake reports from the year 1913 to the present, which is a useful and handy reference of historical, statistical and financial data of the stakes and wards of the Church.
Mrs. Lyman also arranged a comprehensive book for use in the wards known as the "Ward Record Book." This book is arranged to record the activities of the ward, which in the Relief Society are varied including roll, minutes, historical notes, statistical data, financial transactions, and yearly summarized reports. It also contains printed instructions to officers. As soon as this book was adopted it automatically systematized and standardized all the mechanical workings of the ward organizations and it stands as a permanent file for ready reference in the wards. A similar book for stake records was also prepared for the stakes by Mrs. Lyman.
Welfare work has been of especial interest to her and under the direction of President Joseph F. Smith and the General Board she had the privilege of introducing so called "case work" into the Relief Society. For years she has studied methods and systems of family relief, taking special courses in Sociology and Psychology, in addition to the Red Cross Home Service Course and a course in field work under the direction of the Denver City and County Charity office. Whenever in her travels an opportunity has presented itself she has looked into relief work. In social service work she is an outstanding authority in the state. She knows and associates intimately with the great leaders of the land in her line of work, and knows the literature on the subject as well as the workers and the authors. She has attended a number of sessions of the National Conference of Social Work. She has become an outstanding figure in the National Council of Women. Its leading women admire her and seek her counsel. She has attended a number of sessions and has served as Recording Secretary of this organization and is now Auditor. By appointment of the President of the Council, she was a United States delegate to the Quinquennial meeting of the International Council in 1925. She was a member of the State Legislature (House of Representatives) in 1923, serving as chairman of Public Health. She was Vice-Chairman of the State Welfare Commission as long as it existed. She has served as Vice-Chairman of the Community Clinic and on the Advisory Staff of the County Hospital; and is at present President of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers.
Mrs. Lyman was recently elected to membership in Pi Gamma Mu, the National Honorary Social Science Society of America. Whatever line of work she undertakes she masters. When she was made secretary of the Relief Society she began at once a study of bookkeeping, office methods, and the work of secretaries, with the result that she has made for the Relief Society a secretary's office that would do credit to any business institution. Relief Society workers and others who have to do with family and other social problems are feeling the influence of her studies and activities. There are people in every stake and ward who are indebted to Mrs. Lyman for helping them to handle social problems wisely and well. She will not live long enough for the people generally to comprehend the value of the far-reaching social service work she has taken even to the remotest portions of the Church.
Perhaps her distinctive characteristics are her passion for work, the amount of it she can do, her interest in books and studies, and her devotion to the Church itself. But she has been best and most devoted as a mother and home maker. Whoever enters her door senses that cleanliness, order, hospitality, and good will that make the home a haven of rest and happiness to all who dwell there. For any and all successes which have come to her husband he proudly gives more than half the credit to his wife. She has been an unfailing support. In his university work, his practice of engineering and in his Church work, all requiring long and frequent absences from home, she has given him every assistance. Not a word of complaint on this account has she ever spoken. No man ever had a more devoted or efficient helpmeet.
Mrs. Lyman is a beautiful, queenly woman of a striking personality. Vivacious, happy, intensely interested in things and people, she is enjoyed wherever she goes. While she has very decided opinions and voices them clearly she is very tolerant of those who differ with her.
Mrs. Lyman leaves the office of General Secretary with the plaudits of her co-workers, "well done" and with the consciousness that she has put into her work the best that she could give. She has been an indefatigable worker and has left nothing undone that would make the work effective and up-to-date. She has been an inspiration to and has encouraged many young women to take up Relief Society work. To her new position she brings a rich experience garnered through years of intelligent service. She knows the Relief Society work in all its phases and in all its departments. She has vision and an open mind, so while she will ever desire to keep all the good of the past, she will ever wish to add the best that the intelligence of the years brings and develops.
Quotations from Edmund Burke
Flattery corrupts both the receiver and giver; and adulation is not of more service to the people than to kings.
People will not look forward to posterity, who never look backward to their ancestors.
Government is a contrivance of human wisdom to provide for human wants. Men have a right that these wants should be provided for by this wisdom.
Kings will be tyrants from policy, when subjects are rebels from principle.
Man is by his constitution a religious animal.