Anticipation Maude O. Cook I gathered from the garden of the years The seeds to plant in fertile fields today;: I watch with patience, through the smiles and tears, — _ For blossoms to adorn some future way. Shat I lay See LeRoy Burke Meagher Time _ Must be quarried carefully, 'Gathered piece by particle, Cupped frugally and bosom-tight, "Fhat I may see another dawn ~) Brightening the clovered meadow _ While robins - Wing out from the new-leafed elm. Prayer Beatrice K. Ekman Father, I think thee for my sight _ That sees the beauty of the night, | That sees the changing seasons pass,, The green of sedge, of meadow grass,. The trees that fling their branches Nah, The drift of clouds across the sky. °°. ~: O-let me have the grace-to'see My brother's need of being free. Enlist in the Sight Against Cancer Lucybeth C. Rampton Utah Division, American Cancer Society Tt there is as yet no known cure for advanced cancer is general knowledge. But do you know that early cancer can often be cured? It is true—early cancer can often be sy This is the message which the American Cancer Society is striving to bring to every person in this country. If cancer is diagnosed early and given prompt treatment, it can be destroyed and a third of the lives lost to it each year can be saved. This knowledge is of particular importance to women. Cancer strikes women principally between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-five—the years when the loss of the mother usually means a broken home. By far the majority of these cases are cancer of the breast or of the cervix. Yet informed women know that of all types of cancer, breast cancer is most easily controlled if it is detected early. Seventy per cent of breast cancer victims can be saved by early diagnosis, and the same is true of cancer of the cervix. Cancer attacks children, too. We associate the disease with middle and old age; but cancer each year attacks more children than do measles, whooping cough, nd fever, diphtheria, and poliomyelitis combined. Cancer in infancy and childhood pro gresses more rapidly than it does in later life. Happily, though, cancer in children responds more readily to X-Ray therapy. It is therefore imperative that these cancers in the very young receive early diagnosis and proper treatment. Not all stricken children can be saved yet, but many can if they get help in time. _ Women are practical. If a danger confronts them, they want to take positive action against it. What can you do to provide intelligent protection for yourself and your family? The American Cancer Society offers the surest answer. The Society is a nationwide organization of the highest integrity, working closely on both national and state levels with the American Medical Association. Until the riddle of cancer's origin can be solved through research, the Society is convinced that at least a third of the lives now lost to the disease could be saved through education.... Over and over again the Society prints and distributes its "seven danger signals" of cancer to which you should be alert: Any sore that does not heal. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. Unusual bleeding or discharge. Any change in a wart or mole. Persistent indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. Persistent hoarseness or cough. Any change in normal bowel habits. > ittce Ge Emphasis is laid on the fact that these symptoms do not always mean cancer, but that only professional diagnosis can determine the facts. What, then, can you do about cancer? You can learn the facts about the disease, including the seven danger signals, and act promptly and sensibly if they appear in your family. You can insist on periodic check-ups for the entire family. And you can contribute generously to the American Cancer Society—financially, of course, and by volunteering your services if possible. Page 269 —