HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Unity Club will give an entertainment
on Thursday evening, Jan. 4, for the benefit
of the Deseret Hospital in the 12th Ward School-
house; the performance will commence at 7:30
o'clock. The programme is an excellent one
consisting of music, vocal and instrumental,
recitations and tableaux, historical and myth-
ological. The committee, Mrs. Maggie Jen-
nings, Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Nett Snell,
Miss Prissie Jennings, and Miss Talulah Young,
have labored earnestly, ardently and continuous-
ly to make the affair pleasing and successful.

	THE Primary concert in the 11th Ward, New
Year's night, was a splendid affair. The
chorus by one hundred and twenty-five voices
was well rendered and the exercises were all in
keeping. The fairy play "The Sleeping Beauty"
was a complete success; the costumes were
pretty and the piece was well presented. Mrs.
Louie Felt deserves great credit as also her as-
sistants who aided her in giving so pleasing an
entertainment. The object is a worthy one, to
benefit an institution for the sick and injured.
The programme is to be repeated for the benefit
of the children of the Association, and we hope
the house will be again crowded to its utmost
capacity in favor of the Association.

	THE Thirteenth Ward Sunday School children
had a time of rejoicing on Thursday, Dec. 28th
Great preparations were made by the Superin-
tendent, Wm. Naylor and his assistants, Wm.
Hennefer and Joseph Morris, also the ladies of
the Sunday School of the Ward, Mrs. Elizabeth
H. Goddard, Mrs. Susan Stringam, Misses
Rumel, Reading, and others. Three Christmas
trees were loaded with presents of a very great
variety and beautiful to look upon. The after-
noon was spent in dancing and pleasant pas-
times, and at 4 o'clock the distribution of pres-
ents begun; the were all numbered and a cor-
responding number given to the child that drew
the gift, which was handed down immediately
from the tree, and the recipient made happy.
Three special prizes were awarded for punctuality,
diligence, deportment, attendance and aiding in
the work. The first was awarded to little Clara
Lawson, seven years of age; second, Anna
Stromberg, and third, Lydia Hanks. There
were some exercises in music, singing, and reci-
tation that deserve special notice. Supt. George
Goddard offered prayer, then the hymn "When
Jesus shall come in His glory," was sung; after-
wards recitations, "Elder Orson Pratt, the ven-
erable Apostle," by little Clara Lawson; "The
old Soldier," by Master Thomas Sloan; "Bingen
on the Rhine," Miss Louie Platte; singing,
Miss Annie Peterson, "They'll miss me when
I'm gone;" Miss Anna Stromberg, "Bye and
bye you will forget me." Elder C. R. Savage
came in a few moments and sang "The Merry
Mormons" in his happiest manner; he also pre-
sented a handsome Bible, Sunday School teach-
er's edition, to the Superintendent, Wm. Nay-
lor, who has filled that position nearly seven
years. Brother Goddard sang the "Hazel Dell,"
and six little girls sang together very sweetly.
It was a pleasant interchange of kindly feelings
between old and young as well as a time to be
specially remembered by the little people. There
were over 300 children present, and as gay and
merry as possible. It was certainly quite a suc-
cess.

	ON Thursday, Dec. 28, 1882, a meeting was
called by the Bishop of the 20th Ward, to con-
vene in the schoolhouse at 2 o'clock p.m. Mrs.
E. S. Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Central Board, her counselor, Miss Mattie
Horne, and Mrs. E. B. Wells were present by
invitation, Bishop John Sharp took charge of

[Column 2]
the meeting and effected the following organiza-
tion after some consultation with the ladies
present. Elder L. W. Richards acted as secre-
tary. The following officers were sustained by
unanimous vote: Mrs. Lula Greene Richards,
president; Mrs. Annie G. Sharp and Miss Clara
J. Romney, counselors; Miss Celia Sharp, sec-
retary; Miss Emma Phillips, assistant secre-
tary, and Miss Nettie Sharp, treasurer. The
Bishop gave some excellent advice to the young
sisters, and Mrs. Taylor, Mrs. Miller, Mrs. Wells,
Mrs. Richards and Miss Horne each made some
appropriate and suggestive remarks to the young
people on the subject of their organization.

	THE entertainment arranged for the orphan
children of the 15th Ward on Christmas day,
was appropriate and commendable. To do good
is always in keeping with the example of our
Savior, but to bless and make happy the hearts
of the fatherless is certainly in accordance with
divine precepts. The Christmas trees were
handsomely trimmed and many of the articles
were made by the fair hands of the good sisters
who assisted Mrs. S. M. Kimball, as well as by
herself; she is very ingenious in making arti-
ficial birds, elephants, rabbits, camels, etc. The
trees were lighted up splendidly with petite
wax tapers, and the hall was like a fairy picture.
Presents, useful and ornamental, were distribut-
ed to the little folks and every heart made hap-
py. There were about thirty children present.
They will undoubtedly remember Sister Kim-
ball in after years as a sort of fairy godmother.
She has indeed proved herself a mother in
Israel.


