THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Pure and white a scroll unwritten
	The new year rises up to-night,
Must we enter it unbidden,
	Unwillingly our actions write?
The deeds of good or ill record,
	Marring its surface here and there,
Impious thought, or broken word,
	Resolves that never fruitage bear.

We gaze upon its open door,
	But dare not on its threshold tread,
Fain would we backward turn once more,
	Awhile to linger with the dead:
Our best intentions seem so frail,
	Our noblest plans a broken reed,
We would not raise the misty veil,
	The same old saddened tale to read.

Repenting, sinning—fold on fold,
	We wrap around of high resolves,
We start—but never reach the goal,
	Our strength in weakness all dissolves:
Our life is but a flying train,
	And wrecks are strown along the track,
We may not gather them again,
	We cannot if we would turn back.

In shiv'ring guise the old year stands,
	And mournful dirge sweeps o'er the way,
The ice winds speed along the lands,
	Unheeding both the grave and gay.
In gilded halls, on cushioned seat
	Their shrieks seem only wintry glee,
But when through wants' low walls they beat
	They wake the cry of misery.

The old year dies 'mid laugh and song,
	Where costly viands sparkle clear,
And through the mazy dance along,
	There traileth now dark pall and bier,
Yet pause they not, by corse or shroud,
	Still revelry and feast go on,
With boasting vain and thoughtless proud,
	Into the untried year move on.

Yet some between the old and new,
	Lay down their burdens at His feet.
And consecrate themselves anew,
	To life more perfect and complete—
There, countless millions kneel to-night,
	Low at the holy altars shrine
Apart from all that can allure,
	They seek for light and truth divine,
Some with generous hand hath staid,
	The widow's sigh, the orphan's moan,
And from the downward path of sin,
	Have brought some wandering children home.
Unholy gains thay have not stored,
	Nor turned the suff'ring poor away,
Have lived the teachings of their Lord,
	Walked humbly in His sight alway.

And in this solemn midnight dread,
	A white-robed army moves along,
And from the ashes of the dead,
	Rise peans of immortal song.
