MRS. SAXON'S LETTERS.

	WE have received from New Orleans two
copies of the "Times Democrat," Dec. 8 and 15,
containing the letters written by Mrs. Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon while in this city dated Nov. 29
and Dec. 7. She writes without fear and tells
what she has seen, and how she has been treat-
ed by the "Mormon" people. In her first letter

[Column 2]
she speaks thus of her visit to Capt. Hooper's
soon after her arrival in this city:
	"I brought with me a letter of introduction to
him (Mr. Hooper), and as he was ill, his wife
came down and met me very cordially. I was
glad of an interview with Mrs. Hooper, for she
is an only wife, the mother of seven children.
One of her daughters is the wife of Prof.
Young, a son of Brigham's, who is one of the
corps of teachers at West Point Academy.
Mrs. Hooper is a believer in the Mormon re-
ligion, and a stout defender of its tenets. She
spoke with contempt of the Salt Lake Tribune,
declaring that if it did speak well of any Mor-
mon the rest would think that something was
wrong, so bitter and coarse had been its lan-
gauge and expressions toward them. The
Tribune editor had told me: 'It paid Hooper to
be a Mormon, and he didn't care anything about
it as a religion.'"
	The next item in her first letter is her visit to
the President of the Church. We give it com-
plete in her own language:
	"I was accompanied by Mrs. E. B. Wells to
the Gardo House to see President Taylor. This
gentleman is now President of the Church, and
has been since the death of Brigham Young.
He was one of the men in Carthage jail with
Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum when
they were killed by the mob. Taylor was hit by
four balls. He is a stern, grave, stately and in-
telligent man, 74 or 75 years of age. He was in
the act of starting, in company with George Q.
Cannon, down to Manti, and our conversation
was very brief. 'Mrs. S. is a newspaper cor-
respondent,' said Mrs. Wells. He smiled
gravely and said, 'All we crave of Mrs. S. is
that she will tell the truth about us. Very few
do that in speaking of us.' 'Believe me, Presi-
dent Taylor,' I replied, 'I shall give your side as
fairly as I can; I look through no glasses colored
by bitter prejudice. I shall state the facts as I
see them.' A few pleasant words to Mrs. W.
and he left us."
	After this follows a good description of the
Gardo House, the Beehive and Lion Houses and
the office buildings occupied by the Church.
She speaks at some length of these places and
what she saw, and then says:
	"Nothing can be more entertaining than the
long talks with Mrs. Young, hearing her tell of
the varied experiences in her journeyings
through the Territory for near 15 years, as the
companion of her husband. She has become
familiar with the people, especially the Indian
tribes, that the Mormons call the 'Lamanites'
from the Book of Mormon."
	She speaks of our judicial affairs intelligently
and approvingly, of her visits in Mormon
homes, the people she met with, etc. A com-
plete description of the Assembly Hall and the
impressive services on the Sabbath and the ad-
ministering of the Sacrament. Here is another
extract from her letter which may be of some
interest, as it shows the true feeling "Mormon"
women have when the sacred and holy condi-
tions of celestial marriage are compared with
the vile practices which exist so extensively in
large cities:
	"I was told by a very good Mormon member
that one of the commissioners had stated 'that
he felt sorry he had seen so little of the Mormon
families during their stay here.' I am certain
that no people living could be much more
patient under all of the Federal meddling with
their affairs than the Mormons are. They hold
their religious tenets with a dogged resolve, and
they claim all as under revelation, plural mar-
riage as well. Looking at it or trying to discuss
it from a physiological standpoint is one thing
that nettles the women of the better class as
much as anything well can. I was talking

[Column 3]
with a very intelligent Scotchman to-day, and
he was citing some cases regarding our foundl-
ing hospitals and ohter Christian charities, re-
sulting from vices, and made a remark of a
nature calculated to arouse the ire of my lady
friends, and it was some little time before I
could induce them to try and consider how much
bearing this would be bound to have in dis-
cussing a subject of such nature. We held a
very earnest conversation on this subject, and
I learned from them many interesting items
in regard to the religious effect on the vices of
great cities as contrasted by the lives of Mor-
mon people, where a child is welcomed joyfully
as affording a tabernacle for a spirit to dwell in."
	In her second letter Mrs. Saxon comments
upon the political situation in reference to John
T. Caine, the Delegate of the People's Party,
and Judge Van Zile, the "Liberal" candidate,
then gives it as her opinion that the ultimate
"effect of the Edmunds bill will be hard to fore-
cast. It is impossible to convince even those
Gentiles who incline most favorably to the
Mormon people, owing to their honest, frugal,
temperate lives, that plural marriage is not still
carried on, as it is one of their revelations, and
most cherished and sacred ordinances. Com-
mon sense tells us that to legislate and enforce
law in this direction will constitute a police sys-
tem of such a nature as to place every house
under the espionage of paid individuals, and the
results growing from such a system be a more
terrible evil than the one against which we are
fighting."
	Mrs. Saxon speaks of the faith of the "Mor-
mons" in this wise:
	"Believing, as they do, in the prophecies of
the 'Latter-day Saints,' they have every reason
to anticipate great and marked changes for
themselves, under the new order and conditions
that a change of national politics will inevitably
bring about. Persecution they expect from
every quarter, and some of them glory in it, for
it more firmly unites the church and renews
the zeal of the lukewarm, binding them as a
people more closely together. This may be
fanatical and weak to the last degree, but what
can you do with a stubborn fact? Sensible,
practical, matter of fact business men will sit
down and give you the Bible, old and new, the
prophecies of Moses and Smith alike, the book
of Mormon, and Doctrines and Covenants, with
as much zeal as an old Scotch Covenanter would
the Bible; declare that he holds all true alike,
and is ready to be offered up for his loyalty to
Joseph Smith. In this day of changing faiths,
let us look upon this resolute willingness to 'die
for a cause,' with an eye of sober judgment and
put passion by. The prophecies of the past, the
signs of the times, the spirit of the people, all
seem to indicate some great and nationally im-
portant event in the near future; and to a Mor-
mon 'Zion' is paramount to all else. They be-
lieve, and so express themselves, that we are
living in the 'last days,' and this modern 'Zion'
is the promised refuge of Israel. I am glad to
say that not until to-day have I had the pleasure
of reading the letter written by Phil. Robinson
to the New York World during the summer.
He bears out my assertions made in my two let-
ters first written."
	Here is another mention of Sunday services
made in her second letter to The Times:
	"I was at church to-day and heard George Q.
Cannon speak. He is one of the twelve apostles
of the Church and had just returned from a
week's visiting with President Taylor in the
Territory. He spoke to about 3,000 people. Not
one left the church. He told of the prosperity
of the people; of the union of sentiment among
them; of the desire to be faithful to all trusts
and loyal in every way to the general govern-


ment. That this vast crowd of people are 'serfs'
is as false on the face of it as anything well can
be. The one great feature is their union and
religious zeal, and the slight line of demarcation
drawn between rich and poor. Every one is
'sister' and 'brother.' The mistress is called
'sister' by the maid who cooks her dinner, and
affection of the most brotherly character is in-
culcated in every meeting. Strife is denounced,
and arbitration is the prevailing rule. Going in-
to law courts is most severely condemned."
	There are several other items in the letters
we should be pleased to notice but have only
space for one more at this time:
	"I was invited, with my hostess, to a surprise
party given a Mormon lady on her sixty-fourth
blrthday; and truth compels me to say that for
genuine, enjoyable hospitality and good-fellow-
ship, memory holds not its equal for many years
past. The party coming brought the refresh-
ments; every relative was informed, and many
of the fifty-four grandchildren of this 'Mother
in Israel' were on hand. Mrs. M. I. Horne and
her husband sat together, when Mrs. Weils
came forward, and, in a neat address, presented
her a magnificent photographic album, with her
friends' pictures within. Her good and noble
life was referred to with genuine heartiness.
Mrs. Horne responded briefly. One of the
daughters sang, the children joining in the
chorus. Then a lovely little poem, 'To Mother,'
was read by the eldest son. Then an original
song by one of her charity co-workers was sung,
all joining in the chorus. Mayor Jennings and
his agreeable wife, with other leading Mormons,
were present. He gave a toast to the lady; a
thanksgiving prayer was offered. Then came a
variety of refreshing delicacies, all handed
around by the sons, sons-in-law, daughters and
daughters in-law of the jovial but young-look-
ing couple, who looked as if they might travel
some time on the declining hill of life, and en-
joy it too, before they slept the final sleep at its
foot, when the fever of living is over. The
evening was essentially cheerful, but its pre-
vailing feature was its religious character. The
Mormon lives his religion in his daily life. The
graces at table, the reverential deference to
Deity, the thankfulness on all occasions are
something that is too real to be anything save
sincere and heartfelt."
	This highly cultured lady who has traveled
from Maine to Texas with her eyes open, and
visited women of all classes and in all condi-
tions, has not one word to say detrimental to
the Latter-day Saints. She came here to see
and to write, to learn facts as they actually
exist, and every opportunity possible in so short
a time was afforded her, to see and hear for her-
self. If more of those who visit Utah would
take pains to gather facts of their own observa-
tions for material to write about, there would be
much less prejudice against this people outside.
Her description of the Woman's Meeting in
this city was truthful and certainly calculated
to impress all who read it with the earnestness
and zeal of the sisters old and young, and the
effectual exertions made to train up the young
in the ways of the Lord, and to understand
their mission upon the earth, instead of en-
couraging them in the vanities and frivolities of
the world. She speaks of the "Mormon" wo-
men as having ideas of their own and express-
ing them with as much readiness as other
women, and that if they were not honest and
zealous in their religion they would make things
pretty lively for the men who are engaged in it.
Mrs. Saxon knows perfectly well that the ladies
whom she met here are earnest, devout Chris-
tians, and that they are working for a better
condition for humanity, in fact for the redemp-
tion of the human family.


