WASATCH STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake was held in Heber City Hall, Nov. 16,
1882, Mrs. Emma Brown presiding. On the
platform were the second counselor, Mrs. Mary
Daybell and the presidents of the different
branches in the Stake. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
and Mrs. E. B. Wells from Salt Lake City,
Bishop Rasband and other brethren. After
usual exercises and reading of minutes Mrs.
Young made a few encouraging remarks, felt
glad to see the sisters coming together to learn
the ways of the Lord. The Wards were then
represented, East Heber by Mrs. Rasband;
West Heber by Mrs. Foreman, Midway, Mrs.
Charlotte Gurney; Charleston, Mrs. Melissa
Murdock; Centre, Mrs. Cluff. Mrs. Wells
made some remarks in regard to the improve-
ment of the sisters who attend their meetings,
spoke of the Deseret Hospital, and made some
explanations in regard to the donations from
the Societies, said there had been a great deal
expended in fitting up the institution to make
it convenient and comfortable for the patients.
She urged the sisters to dovote a potion of time,
if it was only one hour or half hour in a day
to reading good books and cultivating their
minds, and also to read the papers and become
conversant with what was transpiring in the
world, instead of working so hard as she felt
sure many of them did. Knowledge we can
take with us when we go home but not our
worldy goods. Bishop Rasband said he felt
pleased with the meeting and asked the Lord
to bless the sisters who had come to counsel
and instruct the sisters in their duties in this
Stake of Zion. Singing, benediction by Bro.
Todd.
	Afternoon Session: Singing. Prayer by Bro.
Todd, singing. Mrs. Wells made some remarks
upon faith and the peculiar significance of the
hour, and expressed her pleasure at seeing
so many of the brethren attend the Confer-
ence. Mrs. Young spoke of the training
of the children, urged the mothers to keep
them around them and teach them prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and enjoined upon
them to know where their children were at
night. Advised the sisters to read the Book
of Mormon, the book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants, and they would receive spiritual life and
strength therefrom and increase in faith and
be better qualified to rear their children.

[Column 2]
	President Hatch made some interesting re-
marks and suggested that Sister Watson act
temporarily in the place of Sister Muir as the
latter was living at present in Salt Lake City.
President Hatch felt pleased to have the sisters
from Salt Lake come to visit us. Mother
Duke bore a testimony to the truth of the
Gospel. President Brown felt pleased with
the counsel that had been given, and thought
we had enjoyed a good time together. Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing
and benediction.
			MARY BRONSON, Sec.
			AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't Sec.


