EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having, in company with Janie Loveland,
Counselor, and Lydia S. Pierce, Secretary, re-
cently returned from a highly interesting tour
through the northern portion of Box Elder
Stake, in the interests of our Y. L. M. I. A's.
I trust that a brief review of our journey and
labors may prove of interest to some of your
numerous readers.
	Bro. Chas. Kelley, Stake President of the Y.
M. M. I. A.'s, with his Counselor, N. Madsen,
also, R. Jones, Secretary, arranged to travel
with us, visiting, at the same time, their asso-
ciations in the settlements lying in the district
above mentioned. Accordingly, appoint-
ments were sent forward some days previous
to our starting.
	The morning fixed for leaving could scarcely
have been more unpropritious; a heavy, furious
snow and wind storm had set in, also, at inter-
vals, accompanied by pelting sleet, the
weather having turned severely cold. Several
of our friends advised us to abandon this un-
dertaking, an idea we could not foster for a
moment, that of allowing our appointments to
fail, while the gentlemen's were being ful-
filled. Therefore, we bundled up, stepped into
our vehicle, placed our feet on warm bricks,
improvised for the occasion, and gathering
more closely our wraps around us, indicated to
our symyathizing coachman that we were
quite ready.
	Having made a run of twenty miles, speak-
ing in railroad parlance, through snow, mud
and driving sleet, we arrived at Bear River
Crossing, stopped at Brother Standings, and
partook of refreshments generously prepared
by his estimable wife.
	We had now another twenty miles before us
ere we reached Portage, where we had an ap-
pointment at seven in the evening, and the
storm, the severe cold, and fierce wind not
abated. Here again was suggested by some of
the gentlemen the propriety of our returning,
but quite failed of eliciting any signs of weak-
ness. When within five miles of our destina-
tion, darkness overtook us, which, together
with the disagreeable circumstances already
mentioned, failed in adding much enchantment

[Column 2]
to the scene connected with this part of our
tour. We reached Portage, however, just in
season to dispel the cold chills, warm up, and
be on time to fill our appointment. We had a
very interesting and profitable meeting, the
Spirit of the Lord being abundantly poured
out both upon speakers and hearers. At the
close of the addresses, we attended to some
matters relating to the more complete organi-
zation of the Young Ladies Association.
	Having been very hospitably entertained,
we proceeded next morning on our way, and
after a drive of about twenty miles, arrived at
Malad City, Idaho, where we held a very in-
teresting meeting with the Y. L. A., number-
ing about seventy-five members, and in a very
prosperous condition. The day following, we
held a conjoint meeting of the members of the
Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. Associations, filled
several vacancies, and effected three new or-
ganizations. Having here finished our inter-
esting labors; we took leave of the hospitable
Bishop and family, together with numerous
warm-hearted friends, and proceeded on to
Samaria, some ten miles distant, still in Idaho.
Here the meetinghouse was filled to overflow-
ing and the Good Spirit prevailed, and all re-
joiced together, visitors and visited, a time
never to be forgotten. Having attended to the
business required, we left this interesting
locality, and turned our faces homeward.
	Our next appointment was looked forward
to with unusual and extraordinary interest, at
the little city of Washikee, a Lamanite settle-
ment of about two hundred inhabitants, located
some three miles south of West Portage, in
Box Elder Co., presided over by Bishop Zun-
del, assisted by Brothers Ward and Hunsaker.
We were informed they had over two thousand
acres enclosed, six or seven hundred under
cultivation, had harvested upwards of three
thousand bushels of grain this season, had
quite a number of cows, a large herd of sheep,
many horses, and were well supplied with
wagons, farming implements, etc. We noticed
several fine brick houses, and were told they
burned their lime, made their brick, and
hauled all their building material themselves.
They have a large commodious frame building
which serves for their schools and meetings; a
very excellent school is now in progress, con-
sisting of thirty-five or forty young Lamanite
girls and boys, under the superintendency of
Brother Chandler, a very efficient and ex-
perienced teacher, who rejoices in this labor
and mission. We were informed that his dusky
pupils compared favorably with our white
children as regards their intellect, aptness and
readiness to acquire book knowledge, etc. We
were joyfully received on our arrival at this
curious and unique gathering, and warmly
greeted by hearty hand shaking, in which all
gladly participated. We gazed with wonder,
with feelings impossible to describe, upon these
Indian Saints as they were gathered and
seated in their assembly hall. The women,
neatly attired in hats, bonnets and shawls,
carrying their babes in their arms instead of
upon their backs, according to their former
custom. The men dressed the same as our
white brethren, with hair cut short, neatly
combed, etc.; and to crown all, making this
scene so impressive and solemn, was the sacred
and earnest devotion impressed upon every
feature of their countenances, while their choir
chanted praises to the Lord in their native
tongue, and one of their number opened the
meeting by prayer in the same language. When
the time was announced for commencing meet-
ing, the Indian Deacon, with becoming gravity,
and a reasonable amount of official importance
and dignity, drew from his breast pocket a
large brass key, with which he ceremoniously
locked the door; then taking the key and re-
placing it, he resumed his seat; arising there-

[Column 3]
after only to quietly admit some tardy member,
or reluctantly allow egress to an anxious appli-
cant. The order and attention observed
throughout the entire services were highly ex-
emplary.
	There was not a sufficient number of young
Lamanite sisters to form an independent or-
ganization, so we concluded to unite them, for
the time being, with the Young Men's Associa-
tion, and appointed a young lady to act as sec-
retary. The good Spirit manifested here,
warmed our hearts, giving utterance to our
thoughts as freely as at any of our previous
meetings, and its sweet and holy influences
were equally felt by the listeners.
	Leaving this singular community of Indian
Saints, formerly known only as savages, we
proceeded to fill our next appointment at Bear
River City, about thirty miles distant, where
we were very kindly received, and addressed a
large and appreciative audience. We were
pleased to find our association here in good con-
dition, spirited, and wide awake to their re-
sponsibilities.
	About three miles from this place we filled
our last engagement at the thriving little town
called Honeyville. We then drove home, ar-
riving in safety, our hearts overflowing with
gratitude to the Giver of All Good, for His
blessings, preserving care, and the aid of His
Holy Spirit accompanying and inspiring our
labors.
				MINNIE J. SNOW,
					Supt. Y. L. M. I. A.
	Brigham City, Dec. 27, 1882.

