ARTEMISIA BEAMAN SNOW.

	It becomes a sad and painful duty to record
the demise of our dearly beloved Sister Arte-
misia, wife of Apostle Erastus Snow, who de-
parted this life at 12:30 a.m., just past midnight,
of the 21st of December, after a lingering illness
through which she evinced a spirit of fortitude
and resignation to the will of heaven, although
she dreaded the pang of death.
	She was the eighth and youngest child of Alva
Beaman and Sarah Burits Beaman, and was
born March 3, 1810, at Livonia, Livingston Co.,
New York, and was the mother of eleven chil-
dren, eight sons and three daughters, all of
whom are living except three. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints at an early date, and with her
father's family removed to Kirtland, Ohio,
where her father died in 1837, a much esteemed
and highly respected member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With her
mother and two sisters, Mary and Louisa, she
removed to Missouri, where she was married to
Elder Erastus Snow, at Far West, Dec. 18th,
1838, by the late Heber C. Kimball. Soon after
she, with her husband. moved to Nauvoo,
Illinois, at the time of the expulsion of Saints
from Missouri through the exterminating order
of the notorious and vindictive Governor, Lil-
burn W. Boggs.
	Sister Artemisia was one of those who
officiated in the Nauvoo Temple. She might
truly be termed a wanderer in early life,
being in the persecutions and expulsions of
the Saints from Ohio, Missouri and Illinois.
She was in the first company that left Nauvoo
in February, 1846, crossing the Mississippi on
the ice. She drove a team across the plains in
1818, and came to St. George in 1861. She was
a faithful member of the Relief Society from
its first organization here, and also President of
the Y. L. M. I. Association when first organized
and was much beloved by all with whom she
associated.


Her sister Louisa was the first woman mar-
ried in the Patriarchal order of marriage, being
the second wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Her sister, Mary Adeline Noble, bore the first
child in this order of marriage. Sister Arte-
misia was a firm believer in this order of mar-
riage from its first institution, and freely gave
her consent for her husband to take other wives,
which law he obeyed and she lived and associat-
ed with them through life, and was ever a
mother, a comforter and companion to them;
each one of them bearing testimony to her
merit and worth, and I would refer the readers
of the EXPONENT to an address of her's pub-
lished in the issue of the 15th October last,
which more fully declares her sentiments.
	Thus has another noble spirit departed, one
whom we would gladly have retained in our
midst, and we truly feel the loss of her society,
and while we mourn her loss we testify of her
worth as a true Latter-day Saint. She was ever
genial and kind, a loving mother and generous
friend, kind to the poor and needy, a comforter
to the weary and oppressed. Sisters, be com-
forted; we shall meet her again, if we remain
faithful, in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
				FRANCES C. BROWN,
					Stake Secretary R. S.
