HONORS TO PRESIDENT ELIZABETH CADY
	STANTON.
The North British Daily Mail, of Scotland,
Nov. 4, gives an extensive account of the great
demonstration in support of a memorial to her
Majesty’s government, praying for the exten-
sion of the parliamentary franchise to women
householders and rate payers, under the aus-
pices of the Scottish National Demonstration
of Women, at which Mrs. Stanton was ac-
corded the greatest honors. Of her address
the Mail reports;
“Mrs. Cady Stanton, an American lady”—I
can assure you I appreciate the honor that has
been conferred upon me in being permitted to
celebrate with you this grand event of the
crowning of thousands of Scottish women with
the great right of franchise. (Applause.) It
was here in Scotland where was fought, over
and over again, the  battle of freedom:


here where your own glorious poet, Robert
Burns, sang the glad songs of equality for hu-
manity that have gone around the world; here
where your grand novelist, Sir Walter Scott,
drew his heroines, grand, brave, self-asserting,
for I believe the pen of Scott never drew a
weak woman; here too, where your great
divine, Chalmers, so eloquently defended the
rights of individual conscience and judgment;
and it is fitting that here at last the right of
the franchise should be conferred on your
women. (Applause.) And what is this right
of suffrage—a right so laughed and scorned at
by those who do not appreciate its blessing and
its power. The right of suffrage gives you a
voice in the regulation of your homes, of your
streets, of your schools, of your religion, of
your politics. It is vain to talk of the home
being woman’s sphere so long as she has not a
word to say in regard to the laws that govern
that home. I was very much pleased with the
remarks of the speaker who preceded me in
her rebuke of your members of Parliament
and the House of Commons. But, remember,
my friends, behind every one of our legislators
there stands a woman. And what has been
the influence of the women in high places in
this great reform. They have whispered into
the ears of our legislators, our statesmen, our
philosophers that they had all the rights they
want. Our trouble has not been with the
men—they have been open to reason—our
trouble has been with the women themselves.
(Applause.) It is the saddest sight to me to
see a woman well clothed, fed and sheltered,
in the midst of most fortunate surroundings,
robed and mantled, all complacency about her-
self, and saying "I have, all the rights I want."
O, selfish one! I ask you to look over your
garden gate, where all is beauty, fragrance,
and peace, unto the wilderness beyond, where
the immortal flowers are fading fast, with
no kind hands to lift their drooping heads or
any kind hearts to speak them words of peace
and love. (Applause.) Remember, mothers
of Glasgow, our jails and prisons are regu-
lated by law, and what a power you have
in your hands in trying to build up higher
and better towns and cities in your midst.
Remember, man is the representative of jus-
tice, woman of mercy, and we need these two
grand elements everywhere, hand in hand,
walking up and down the highways of life.
(Applause.) It has sometimes been said that
this movement of ours is antagonistic to men.
My friends, how can that be? The women
on all our platforms have sons as well as
daughters, and think you a mother would do
aught to take from the dignity, the glory,
and the praise of her sons? (Applause.)"—Ex.


