MISCELLANEOUS.

	"WOMAN VS. MEN," is the alarming title of
a letter in to-day's Standard, but the terrors of
the title are nothing to the fearsome facts dis-

[Column 2]
closed. It appears that in the B. A. examina-
tions of the University of London only 42 per
cent of the men were successful, but of the
women 73 per cent.; and even of these only
one-third of the men succeeded in getting so
much as a secondclass, while only one-sixteenth
of the sweet girl-graduates failed to be placed
in the first division.
	The writer of the letter (Mr. A. P. Hens-
man) states that he took an active part in the
movement for the admission of women, and is
not a little proud of his female triumph; and
we think it must have been some prophetic
destiny that named him "Hensman." Stand-
ard, London.
	CETEVAYO'S ENGLISH PRESENTS. — The
Cape Times says:—"Cetevayo has brought
back from England many handsome and costly
souvenirs of his visit, including a stick with
silver head and silver ferule given to him by
the Prince of Wales, beautiful Cashmere shawls
from great ladies for his wife and female suite,
superb railway rugs and piles of prints and
other dress stuffs for the use of persons who
perfer the garb of Nora Creina. But of all
his mementoes that which he values most is a
great silver goblet presented to him by the
Queen and bearing the inscription—'Presented
to H. M. King Cetevayo by H. M. Queen
Victoria, August 14, 1882.' In addition to
the goblet the Queen gave him with her own
hands a photograph of herself, rather larger
than cabinet size."
	TITHES IN ENGLAND.—The origin of tithes
in England is curious enough. It would ap-
pear that Ethelbert, King of East Anglia,
made proposals of marriage to Althrida,
daughter of Ofia, King of Mercia. These
proposals were favorably received by Offa, who
had no sooner got the unfortunite suitor in his
power than he barbarously murdered him.
For this heinous sin Offa made his peace with
the church by granting it the tenth part of the
produce of his realm. All this happened in
the west of England about the year 786. In
the time of Edward VI. (1553) the church
tithes may be said to have been placed on the
basis on which they now rest. Since then land
has been continuously rising in value, and con-
sequently with it the amount of tithes. Until
the passing of the Commutation act, in 1836,
there used to be constant dissensions and law-
suites between the clergy and their parishion-
ers as to the collection of these dues. Some-
times a farmer would deliberately allow a crop
to be spoiled, and thereby leave the parson
without any remedy. Sometimes he would
prosecute the clergyman for not removing his
tithe in reasonable time, and he would stop up
roads and bar gates so as to give the clergyman,
his carts and teams a longer journey to and
back with his booty. The act of commutation
removed many of these petty grievances of
which both tithe-payer and tithe-owner com-
plained. The clergyman was by this act to re-
ceive every year the money equivalent of a
fixed and definite number of quarters of corn.
This constitutes the modern tithes which alone
bring into the church a revenue exceeding
twenty million dollars annually, though this
vast sum by no means exhausts the sources of
ecclesiastical wealth.
	A very great grievance at the present mo-
ment is a so-called "extra tithes." These are
levied exclusively on orchards, vegetable gar-
dens, and certain crops, such as hops. They
vary in most every county and parish, and
range from four to fifteen shillings an acre.
They form, therefore, a serious item in the ex-
pense of working such properties, and have
contributed not only a little to increase the im-
ports from abroad into England of hops, fruit
and vegetables. At the present moment they
are being strenuously resisted by farmers in
many parts, though as the law stands there is
but little hope of immediate redress.


