A NEW YEAR'S OFFERING.—1883.

	The way of this world is to praise and bless,
Extol and venerate the memory
Of dear and faithful friends when they are dead.
Too oft while they are with us, we forget, 
Or fail to realize their priceless worth;
We do not sense how much they are to us,
How much our happiness depends on them,
Till they are gone, and then it is “too late!"
Too late e’er to recall one needless pang,
One harsh expression, which we may have giv'n,
Or offer love long due, too long withheld.
	The Gospel light, restored in latter-days,
Corrects—with every other—this mistake;
And those who will accept it, in its strength,
Its beauty and its fulness, "need not err,"
In greater or in lesser things than these.
"The testimony of the Lord is sure,
And maketh wise the simple"—happy truth!
To those who will receive it, it is peace.
But doubts and bitterness will cling to those
Who shut their hearts against its kind approach.
	The year just closed is like a buried friend.
And if its gifts, its precious days and hours,
We've failed to value in their faultless course,
Failed to fill up with useful thoughts and deeds,
Then o’er its grave we may indeed lament,
With sad, unfeigned though unavailing tears.
But if, instead, we've wisely spent the wealth
Of opportunities for doing good,		
That crowded on us in the fleeting time;
Watchful that nothing worth a stroke should pass,
Which we might aid in doing, or might do,
Forming fair shrines for tender memories,
Then truly, we can find no cause to weep
For this kind friend, more than for the vast throng
Of cherished favorites, the sweet and pure,
The good, and wise, and staunch, among our own,
Who have been summoned in the year now past,
To higher spheres of action and of thought.
That they have triumphed, winning fadeless crowns,
We cannot doubt; therefore we will not mourn.
But with the gen'rous feelings, that should live
Within the heart of every Saint of God,
We'll praise and bless Him for His matchless love;
And ceaseless thanks we'll offer for His care, 
And kind protection which salvation wrought,
Anew for us throughout the vanished year,
And—through obedience—is promised still;
And with our thanks this humble prayer we'll raise:
	Our Father, God! Bless Thou Thy chosen one,
Thy servant whom Thou'st called to lead Thy Saints,
Whose head is silvered with the time and thought,
Which he hath spent to glorify Thy name 
In the salvation of his fellowmen.
Bless him with health and with Thy strength, and let
The light of revelation dwell with him,
That he may comprehend Thy mind and will 
Concerning Zion—yea, 'the pure in heart,' 
And with him bless his Counselors; the Twelve,
Their Counselors, and all whom Thou hast called
To bear Thy Holy Priesthood here on earth;
Make harmless every weapon that is hurled
'Gainst those who bear Thy truth into the world;
The young among Thy sons and daughters bless,
Surmount them with the shield of righteousness;
Let faith and union with Thy Saints increase, 
Throughout the Stakes of Zion spread Thy peace;
And through the year just op’ning, may we stand,
Or follow, as Thou wilt, Thy guiding hand.
We ask all things, and say Thy will be done,
In the dear name of Thy beloved Son;
Thine, be the glory, and, let once again,
All Israel say Amen! Amen!! Amen!!!'"
	LULA.


[Column 1]

