BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is from my father's last letter,
which was written at Willmington, Deleware,
June 12th:
	"I am at the house of Brother Sanders, who
is very kind, also his family, and I feel free
and at home here. We arrived yesterday at
two o'clock—left Washington at six in the
morning; stopped one hour at Baltimore. As
for Congress, they have not got it in their
hearts to do the first thing for us, because it is
not popular. * * * But the Lord
is our King, and He has all things in His
hands; as this is the case, it is for Him to give
us our inheritance, for Congress has violated
all rights and claims to the earth, or anything
that pertains to it. I must say I felt indig-
nant some of the time while in Washington,
to see their indifference towards us. There
are some three or four who seemed to be
friendly—I think merely to get our support; I
will give their names: General Sample, of
Alton, Judge Douglas and Mr. Wentworth, of
Chicago—these three men belong to Illinois,
we sent them. General Atchison and Hughes,
from Missouri seem to be kind. Oh, the de-
ception that we find in this world! Elder
Wight and myself have presented a petition to
get redress for our wrongs in Missouri, or for
them to give us some land somewhere in the
world, either in Texas, Arizona or Iowa. The
bill had gone before the committee of public
lands; it was thought by some of the members
that it would go favorable. Do not think that
they can restore what they have taken from us
—that cannot be done in this world. * * *
	"We shall leave here to-morrow for Phila-
delphia, from thence to Boston, as the Confer-
ence will be on the 29th and 30th of July;
then I shall return to New York. When you
get to Philadelphia I can get word from you
in one or two days and come to you. I spoke
to the Captain of the Osprey to see that you
got on to a good boat. You will be treated
kindly, for ladies are not insulted. If you
come, tell William to be careful of the chil-
dren, and keep them out of the wet, and see
that they have plenty to eat. Tell him and
Mary they must attend to prayers when you

[Column 2]

leave—they shall not lose anything by so do-
ing, but shall have health and peace and the
good things of this world. * * *	I
hope to dispose of my land, then I shall be
able to bring them some clothes. Tell him to
be prudent in all things, use those things that
will be for their comfort. I hope to get a line
from you soon, then I’ll know what your cal-
culations are' I shall write no more at present
—this I thought might reach there before you
started. I shall write to the children now and
then. Tell them to write often and direct to
the city of New York. As ever your affec-
tionate husband and father,
		HEBER C. KIMBALL."
	Preparations had been made, and we were to
start for the East on or about the 1st of July;
our kindred had been notified of our coming.
Sister Cobb, before returning East, had urged
my father to bring me to Boston to spend a
portion of the summer, and my expectations
and desires I thought were now to be gratified.
This was the second time that I had anticipated
a visit to the home of my birth, endeared by
the fondest recollections of my infant years. I
longed to see again those dear old meadows
and green woods, where my cousins and I had
strolled together with our playmates, climbing
up the high fences to be able to reach the
nicest autumn berries; and many instances and
scenes I remembered distinctly. There were
my father’s first potter shop and our dwelling
house, built by his own hands. There his first
four children were born—the first was a girl
and the fourth a boy, who were buried in the
little groveyard near by. And though last not
least was the old red schoolhouse, standing
upon the outskirts of the town, near a large
swamp, where I first learned my a, b, c. My
night and day dreams were filled with the
bright hope of future and unalloyed pleasures
which I imagined were in store for me. No
girl, I think, ever felt more animated, or
looked forward with a greater desire for the
happy day to come that would see us off. The
thought never entered my mind that the Pro-
phet could be murdered, causing a sudden
change in affairs that would call my father
home, and thereby all the airy castles that I
had been building be cruelly dashed to the
ground.
	The following hastily written lines tell of
the awful fate of the Prophet and his brother,
Hyrum, and describe the scene in Nauvoo,
aud the deep sorrow and lamentation that filled
the hearts of the people:
	"NAUVOO, June 30, 1844.
MY DEAR COMPANION:
	"Never before did I take up my pen to ad-
dress you under so trying circumstances as we
are now placed, but as Brother Adams, the
bearer of this, can tell you more than I can
write, I shall not attempt to describe the scene
through which we have passed. I saw the life-
less bodies of our beloved brethren, when they
were brought to their almost distracted fami-
lies. Yea, I witnessed their tears and groans,
which were enough to rend the heart of
adamant. Every brother and sister who wit-
nessed the scene felt deeply to sympathize with
them; yea, every heart is filled with sorrow, and
the very streets of Nauvoo seem to mourn.
Where it will end the Lord only knows. We
are kept awake night after night by the alarm
of mobs. These apostates say, "Their damna-
tion is sealed, their die is cast, their doom is
fixed," and that they are determined to do all
in their power to have revenge. William Law
says he wants nine more that were in his quo-
rum, sometimes I am afraid he will get them;
I have no doubt but you are one. * * *
	"There was a strange circnmstance took
place when the Legion was first called out to
defend the city. There were several drums
found with blood upon them. No one could
account for it; they examined to see how many

[Column 3]

there were; they found ten, and when they
were examining the eleventh, there came a
large drop on that one. William has seen
them, and says with all that the drums have
been used, the blood is still plain to be seen.
	"I try to submit all things into the hands of
God. I have felt opposed to their sending for
you to come home at present, and did not know
as they would, until Brother Adams called
here a few moments ago, and told me he should
start in about two hours; if I wanted to write
I must send it to the Mansion within that time.
I have not time to say much, neither is it nec-
essary, as he can tell you all. My health is
better, and the children are all well. I mailed
a letter to you last Monday, directed to Balti-
more. The letters you sent from Washington
all came together last Wednesday; the mail
had not been in before for four weeks. When
I read your pressing invitation for me to meet
you, I again took courage, that the way would
yet open for us to go, but alas! all our hopes
in that direction are blasted. My constant
prayer now is for the Lord to preserve us all
to meet again. I have no doubt but your life
will be sought, but may the Lord give you
wisdom to escape their hands. My time is up,
so now fare you well till we meet, which may
the Lord soon grant, for His Son's sake.
Amen.	VILATE KIMBALL."
	I well remember the morning that the news
came to our city of the murder of Joseph and
Hyrum. I had slept that night with Emily
Partridge at the house of Winsor P. Lyon.
The first sound that broke upon our ears was
the voice of Sister Lyon, as she opened the
door and told us that they were murdered.
	Many scenes in Nauvoo, some of which are
described by my mother, are still fresh in my
memory. I stood in the door as the procession
passed our house, which had increased to sev-
eral thousand, who followed the wagons bear-
ing the martyrs as they proceeded to the Man-
sion. I was an eye and car witness to the in-
sulting speech delivered by Governor Ford
upon the very frame of a building which stood
west of the Mansion, where a few days pre-
vious with thousands I had listened to Joseph's
last address to the Legion, never suspecting
treachery nor the awful tragedy that was being
enacted at Carthage, where this cowardly Gov-
ernor had pledged his honor and the faith of
the State that they should he protected. We
were promised that the laws should be magni-
fied and justice be meted out to their murder-
ers. It was the popularity of Joseph as can-
didate for the Presidency, and the power and
influence that the "Mormon" people were
gaining, that created a feeling of fear among
the apostates and corrupt politicians, and a
deeper hatred took possession of their hearts,
similar to that which was felt by the Jews
towards Jesus Christ, and like them they were
determined to put an end to his earthly career.
	It was the morning of June 24 when Jo-
seph and Hyrum, with the City Council, the
Marshal and a number of others, started on
horseback for Carthage. Joseph halted as
they reached the Temple, and looking with ad-
miration upon it and upon the beautiful city,
he remarked: "This is the loveliest place and
the best people under the heavens; little do
they know the trials that await them."
	Our history tells a tale of bitter woe—the
sufferings of the innocent, the robbings and
drivings from their homes, the wailings of the
widows and the orphans, the fathers and
mothers, brothers and sisters, for their dead
and dying, and the surrendering of their arms
and submitting to all the cruelties that could
be heaped upon them, rather than deny their
religion—but does it tell of any redress being
made for the wrongs done them by this nation?
No, nor do we look for any from them; but
our case will be taken to a higher court, whence
there is no appeal.


