THE YEAR 1883.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT sends a hearty
greeting of a happy new year to its many readers.
Whether here at home in the valleys of the
mountains, or afar off over the seas or in what-
ever land or clime the little messenger finds its
way. May it carry with it a blessing, truth,
light, a ray of sunshine, that all who read it may
be cheered, encouraged in the path of duty,
urged to persevere in doing good and assisting
others. Stronger in the faith and more earnest
in labors for the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	The new year is a time for good resolves, a
desire to improve in all that will help one to
gain the sure road to happiness here and here-
after. A desire to gain light and intelligence
that will be to the soul like a fountain of pure
water to refresh invigorate and strengthen it.
The year has dawned suspiciously for the Saints,
peace prosperity and every needed blessing
abounds in Utah, and future prospects seem
propitions.
	It is good to have such days as Christmas and
New Year's when one is expected to greet
friends and acquaintances with kindly or affec-
tionate salutation. One might grow cold and
hard were it not for some of the pleasant re-
minders that swoop down now and then, and
enfold one in such a loving embrace that one is
glad to submit to all the extra responsibilities,
which ever attend upon new phases and condi-
tions, for the gladness and joy it brings to the
heart. To become indifferent to the happiness
of others and be swallowed up in one's own am-
bition pride or pleasure is a very common falling
among mortals, and sometimes creates such
selfishness as to exclude even politeness, where
affability and kindness should be extended.
Kind words, cheerfulness and smiles help
one wonderfully, to be sure this is not all,
but they are often more acceptable than gifts.
This is not a homily however upon kindness
love or charity but a new year's greeting, and
whatever short comings, faults or blunders, the
EXPONENT may have been answerable for in the
past, we trust that in the future it will be able
to correct them, and improve in its appearance
ere the year that has just dawned shall have
drawn to a close. And again "A Happy New
Year" to all our friends and patrons.


[Column 1]
