DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	As I am a reader of the EXPONENT, have
become very much interested in you also in
your questions and the answers by the Sisters,
on our religious principles I bear my testimony
to you, that they are every word true and em-
anate from the holy laws of God the Eternal
Father.
	I obeyed the Gospel in the Far South at the
early age of 13 years, have never doubted for
one moment since of the truth of this work,
it being 31 years last August since I became a
member of the Chnrch of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints; my husband entered into
the order of Celestial Marriage with my full
and free consent, and I have lived 21 years
in that order of Marriage and I bear my tes-
timony to you that it is true and emanates
from a Superior Power than that of man.
	I do not deny the petty trials of life, those
who are most tried are most triumphant, do
we wish to live here without a trial? then
we would wish to die but half prepared for an
exaltation. We must taste the bitter to appre-
ciate the sweet. Our blessed Lord and Sav-
ior passed through the severest of trials with-
out a murmur, and we must not not expect a


salvation without striving for it, stars shine
brightest in the darkest night, difficulties are
things that show what we are, God has pitted
us against rough antagonists, for what end?
that we may prove Olympic conquerors; and
this cannot be without toil. You say you can-
not accept any religion that will not bear sift-
ing. Our religion will bear sifting, shaking,
turning inside out, there is not one principle
but that can stand the test. Investigate with
pure and honest motives and your harvest will
be rich.
	I believe you to be a woman of true integ-
rity, and will say, Dear Lady, please listen to
and obey the still small voice that whispers to
you from day to day, that the religion so called
"Mormonism" is true; and have a testimony
for yourself and gather to Zion where you can
hear the good word of God proclaimed from
time to time, that will comfort and strengthen
you, and enable you to bear all things patient-
ly. Those who are filled with the love of God
and his laws take no note of petty trials, but
pass them by and say all tend to purify and
sanctify. I bear this my testimony to you with
a loud voice although my body is frail; I have
been an invalid for five years, these are the
sentiments of my heart in, reading your corres-
pondence a great desire came over me to bear
my testimony to you, and hope it will be of
worth. I remain an ernest watcher of your
conversion to the truth.	THE UNKNOWN.


