EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I had fondly hoped to have seen you, with
many of my dear sisters and friends in Utah
ere this, but fate has decided otherwise. I
burried another precious baby boy the eighth
of September last, and on the nineteenth of
the same month I started on a visit to the
North, thinking that the society of friends and
relatives might help to soothe the grief that
seemed to make the future look so dark. My one
little girl was with me, and in company with
some other acquaintances we reached Moab,
Emery Co., where I concluded to remain a few
weeks with a brother. While there the sad
news came to me of the death of Mrs. Matilda
Burnham, who died the 13th of October, six
hours after giving birth to a son, her eleventh
child. She was in the 33d year of her age,
was the wife of Luther C. Burnham and
daughter of John and Eliza Barnett. For
the last five years she, with the rest of the
family, has been laboring as missionaries to
the Navajoes, and by them she was much be-
loved. Previous to her moving to this coun-
try, she resided at Hyde Park, Cache Co., and
was an active and devoted member of the
Relief Society. Her sudden death cast a
gloom over all her friends and especially to
her own family was it sad, to whom she was
a loving wife, a kind mother and sister, and
a pleasant companion and is deeply mourned
for by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. After receiving this sad message,
I returned home at once and with the help of
the Lord will do all I am capable of for the
bereaved family.
	There are only eight sisters in this place,
making it very lonely at times. Sister Aba-
gail Stevens is a faithful nurse and a great
help in times of sickness and trouble. Oh!
how often we think of the great and good
times you have at your meetings in Salt Lake,
and so wish for the time to come when we may

[Column 2]
enjoy the blessed influence that ever attends
such gatherings. The sweet spirit there en-
joyed would help to lift us above the cares of
this life. We trust we are not forgotten by
these same dear sisters whom we regard as the
greatest and best women that live upon the
earth. How thankful we should all feel for
the light of the Gospel that all may enjoy if
humble and prayerful, and how can they live
who are not prayerful? I fear we are too care-
less in regard to this. There is no comfort
like the Spirit of God, that will ever abide
with us if we seek faithfully for it. How
much we have to be grateful for that the world
knows nothing of. We have pure and upright
men for husbands and fathers, and we have
perfect confidence in them knowing that the
secret acts of their lives would bring no dis-
grace on us, or our innocent children. Have
the women of the world this confidence in their
"Leige Lords," would to heaven they had;
there would be many an aching heart lighter,
many desolate homes happier, many innocent
girls saved from the terrible fate that awaits
them through the evils of the present genera-
tion. Do we need the pity of the world? For
my part I think it would be better if they
would pity the condition of their own souls,
and try to save them and not worry so much
about the women of the Latter-day Saints,
who are many times better off than they them-
selves are. In conversation not long since
with a Gentile gentleman, he told me that he
had understood that all the wives who entered
a family after the first wife, did so as servants
to the first family. I assured him that the
people called "Mormons," were too intelligent
and independent to be slaves that all wives
were equal, the marriage ceremony being ex-
actly the same for each wife.
	I have been much interested in Mrs. Scott's
letters and pleased that so many of our sisters
reply to them, have often wished I Mas capable
of so doing, but I trust that she with every
honest hearted person may become convinced
of the Truth, for that will bring more peace
and satisfaction than any amount of wealth
and grandeur could do. We are having love-
ly weather now almost like summer. The
merry holidays will soon be here. God grant
that the New Year may be a happy one for
the Saints; and for all who love to do right.
Success to the EXPONENT always. It comes
like a dear old friend and cheers many a lone-
