JANE WELSH CARLYLE.

	The life of this good woman, in the hand of
a George Eliot, would make a soul-thrilling

[Column 2]

and most instructive homily to women of all
grades; many such have been written, and
read with tears, and heartfelt sympathy, and to
every thinking mind with edification. Yet
we often hear such works derided as trashy
fiction, when in truth they are always taken
more or less from living characters. Dickens,
and George Eliot invariably drew from life.
Sir Walter Scott was so pointed in this, that
his characters were read and recognized. I am
bold to say the writings of these authors, with
Bulwer and many others, cannot be read by
any mind of capability to comprehend, with-
out life instruction, especially to those whose
lives have been spent in comparative seclusion.
The young mind craves food as well as the body,
and is so imperative that it will have it. Then
let them read to their hearts content; if they
read such authors as I have named with ap-
preciation, they will have no taste for inferior
writers. The life of Jane Carlyle shows there
is often more romance in real life, than even
found in books. I have been drawn into this
train of thought by reading a very brief sketch
of this lady’s life, which would certainly make
a book, if taken in hand by a competent writer.
	I have already felt a repulsion to Thomas
Carlyle, great as he was, for which I can
scarcely account, as I have only read portions
of his "Latter-day Pamphlets," but in them he
has considerably developed himself:—on read-
ing this brief memoir of his wife, I felt there
must be some instinct in the feeling! now, at
last, is given to the world the sombre life. The
imprisoned soul of his beautiful, and most
exemplary wife, Jane Welsh; for fifty long
years this woman lived like one who had
"taken the veil." Carlyle, like most devotees
of the pen, was poor; and the life-struggle of
his wife was to economize a small income to
enable him to follow his vocation, his mission
on the earth as "a teacher of mankind"—in
this course she never faltered, but steadily,
daily, and yearly laid herself on the altar of
sacrifice that she might accumulate all good to
a being, who was hard, cold, and unapprecia-
tive; even through the long, weary years they
lived at Craigenputtoch (the very name gives
one the chills), the bleak Scotch hills, stretch-
ing in monotonous barrenness on all sides, yet,
through all she plodded on through her hard
and dreary warfare; without sympathy and
without appreciation, filling the most menial
offices; while far from being the companion of
her husband, she only saw him for a few
moments in his dressing room in the morning
acting as his valet, during the long seven
years of their residence there, for he could
only compose in solitude, and his nervousness
compelled him to occupy a room far away from
the domestic doings of the house. Through
her constant labors of love, she enabled him to
fulfill his great mission, freeing him from all
domestic care; but sometimes she would speak
of the travail that accompanied the production
of his great work, "Life of Frederick the
Great," and in her witty way she called it "the
valley of the shadow of Frederick!" So
Carlyle lived, and wrote in comparative ease,
and Jane, his wife, nourished the life-blood,
and fed the lamp with oil day by day, without
praise and without price.
	But I must retrograde somewhat, that I may
give a brief outline of this noble woman, for
without that, her picture would be entirely in-
complete, and her great merit depreciated, but
death has brought to life and light. I will

[Column 3]

not fail in my purpose—even though I may be
somewhat erratic in the recital.
	"Save the history of Charles and Mary
Lamb, there is no more pathetic history in
English literature, than that of Thomas
Carlyle, and his wife, Jane," and yet how
many have gone down to their graves with a
like history, none knowing and none appre-
ciating?
	Jane Welsh was the petted and only
daughter of a Scotch physician, who boasted
of the family, blue blood, and who had ample
means to live a life of ease and elegance; Jane
was a pretty, gay and lively child, and grew
up a very attractive woman; she received a
liberal education, was bright, and witty, and
possessed a beautiful face, and pleasing man-
ners; all this was a fortune in itself; of
course she had many admirers, but she re-
mained perfectly heart-whole till meeting
Edward Irving, she felt he was the only man
she had ever seen to whom she could commit
her life destiny- Irving had been her tutor,
and now solicited to be accepted as her lover,
but he had been affianced to another woman,
and this was a serious obstacle in the way of
accepting him; yet she candidly confessed she
loved him, but told him he must first win the
consent of his affianced to a severance of their
engagement; but a Scotch betrothal is as
sacred as a Jewish one, and means much more
than is ordinarily received by English or
American society. The young lady refused to
absolve her vacillating lover from his cove-
nant with her, even after she heard that he
loved another; and Jane was too proud to ac-
cept a lover with a broken troth, so ended her
first and only love!
	At this time her father died, she was devot-
edly attached to him, and the shock and sor-
row it caused her, seriously affected her health,
not being of a strong constitntion. To the
latest period of her life she rarely spoke of him,
and always in a sacred hushed way, which told
the reverential love with which she cherished 
his memory. This alone, if nothiug more,
shows a marked phase of the woman's chaarc-
ter—womanly love and devotion, was its most
distinctive features, and which her whole life
exemplified. Edward Irving was the only man
she ever loved—she confessed to a dear friend
in the later years of her life, that she married
Carlyle from ambition, and she added, "he has
far surpassed all that I ever hoped of him, yet
I am miserable!" Here was the grand mistake
of her life, they were the antipodes of each
other, both by nature and education. She was
of patrieian birth, fond of society, proud, sensi-
tive and accomplisded; he was of the yeoman-
ry of Scotland, accustomed to the hard life of
its bleak hills; he had no sympathy with fine
lady arts, was not social, was grim even in his
humor, was dictatorial, believing in himself
and scarcely anything else; but she found him
superior to all around him in intellect, and she
felt he would make his mark in the world, so
she married him. Had she remained single,
relying upon her own capabilities, she would
have become a literary character, of which
she was very fond, and her letters, and diary,
and occasional poems, all reveal the fact that
she composed with ease, and her rare conver-
sational powers would have drawn around her
a circle of admiring friends, instead of which,
she formed a loveless union, her own individu-
ality absorbed in that of her husband, a menial
in position, her home cares and daily struggles


to make a small income suffice, that her hus-
band might be free from the cares of poverty,
that he might devote himself to his mission,
which it seems she firmly believed in—all this
was the sad reverse of the life picture. Yet I
believe it is a very common one. Woman is
a proud being, her Creator formed her so most
wisely. I do not believe any high-souled
woman really loves a man she does not admire
evenmore, still I must have much love in
marriage, or it cannot be an immortal union.
Words may be spoken, deeds may be drawn
up, but if love is not there to seal and ratify,
there must be a scroll over all having some-
thing like such words as, “Held in bondage.”
I feel if Jane Welsh read my words she would
say in the words of Scripture, “True, O king!”
Much more might be told, but the time came
for this woman to enter her rest; she passed
away from all earthly trials, and then, strange
to tell, her husband woke from his apathy,
the vision of his mind seemed afraid and at
once might fancy a tableaux opened before
him of her life, sacrifice for him, and it was
given to him to realize all she had done and
endured for his sake, her loveless and unappre-
ciating husband, and then he mourned her
with all the tenderness that in life he had
denied her.
	“Like many another rare and great,
	Thou wer’t not treasured till too late.”
