MISCELLANEOUS.

	The sword is but a hideous flash in the
darkness—right is an eternal ray.—Victor
Hugo.

	A good conscience is the palace of Christ;
the temple of the Holy Ghost; the paradise
delight; the standing Sabbath of the saints.—
Augustine.

	In Washington, D. C., Dec. 8, 1882, Mr.
Bingham, of Pennsylvania, chairman of the
committee on postoffices and postcards, report-
ed a bill in the House reducing letter postage
to two cents, and it was referred to the com-
mittee of the whole.

	Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, at the recent Wo-
man's Congess in Portland, spoke first of con-
vent life and its effect upon the health. Nuns
live the quietest and most retired life, all their
time engaged in occupations entirely feminine.
But they fade and grow sick and old sooner
than if they were more actively engaged. Di-
ametrically opposed to these are the fashiona-
ble women whose existence is one round of
gaiety and excitement. They fade and wear
away almost as soon as the religious devotees.
The women who are engaged in industrial oc-
cupations do not have a long lease of life and
health. The settled and unvarying hours of
labor, the close confinement, the noise and con-
fusion of the machinery to which they are con-
stantly subjected, the continued absorption of
interest in one direction—all combine to sap
their bloom and strength. In professional life,
Dr. Zakrzewska placed all women engaged in
any kind of active work which calls for the
exercise of all the faculties. She would have
it include not only physicians, ministers, law-
yers, and all who are usually classed as profes-
sionals, but also nurses, housekeepers, book-
keepers, all who have a definite occupation re-
quiring knowledge and skill and calling into
play more than one set of faculties. These, she
said,are the healthiest women. They stay young
and fresh longer than any other class, and as
they grow old are better preserved, both men-
tally and physically. The health of women
generally is much better now than in former
days, but there is still much that needs to be
remedied,—Ex.

[Column 2]
	O flattery, how potent is thy sway; how wide
the bounds of thy pleasing jurisdiction !—Cer-
vantes.

	Books, are the true levellers. They give to
all who faithfully use them the society, the
spiritual presence of the greatest and best of
our race.—Channing.

	A Boston paper is in "favor of women
voting if they want to." A Western paper
"would like to see the man who would make
them vote if they did'nt want to."

	Helen M. Gougar, editor of Our Herald, has
sued Harry Mandler, chief of police, and Chas.
Pook, for libel, and claims damages in $10,000.
This is a straightforward and eminently proper
course to be taken by an injured party.

	It is only a step from the sublime to the ri-
diculous. We read that "Madam Adelina
Patti was invested with the Order of Kapiola-
ni, recently, by the Chamberlain of King
Kalakaua. The order is a star on a red and
white striped ribbon, and was accompanied by
a letter on parchment from His Majesty."
What an honor.

	The rights of woman are obtaining recogni-
tion in Norway. The parliament has just
passed a law, which the King has signed, giv-
ing women the privilege of attending the uni-
versities and applying for degrees in all the
arts and sciences; but the right to hold office
in the service of the state and of participating
in the competitive examinations for such posi-
tions is not yet accorded them.

	A meeting of the executive committee of the
fair for aged and friendless women was held
recently at the house of the president, Mrs. Dr.
Carelton, who presided. Accounts were ren-
dered in from the various tables and other
connections of the fair, sufficient to make it
evident that the net receipts will exceed $2,-
000. A vote of thanks to the president was
enthusiastically passed.

	MADAME SARAH BERNHARDT'S engagement
for South America, the preliminary details of
which the Figaro was the first to announce two
months ago, is, I understand, not yet quite a
fait accompli. Certain details have yet to be
settled. Still the contract, onerous as it is, is
more workable than the first proposition by
which Madame Bernhardt wished to be paid
£300 a night even while she was traveling
from place to place. The new contract is, it is
understood, for £33,000 for fifty performances,
the services of M. Damala being included. This
is at rate of £660 a night, certainly a larger
sum than has ever before been paid to any
dramatic artist. Should Madame Bernhardt
go to South America, she will be absent from
April to September, and will compensate Mr.
Mayer for the loss of his London season at the
Gaiety.—Ex.

	An old Quaker lady of Nantucket, in a
private letter to Dr. Sarah J. McNutt, of New
York, gives a number of curious items from
the genealogy of the island. One of these we
are permitted to quote: "Rachel Bunker, wi-
dow of Dan (?) Bunker, and previously widow
of Barnabas Coleman, and daughter of Sylva-
nus and Abiel Hussey, died 11th mo., 9th,
1796, after an illness of 48 hours; aged 80
years, 6 mo., 23 days. During her time she
discovered much Christian fortitude and resig-
nation, and closed a life of usefulness with
calmness and serenity. She has been for 33
years eminent and successful in her profession,
having in that time assisted at the birth of
2,992 children (30 pairs of twins). She had 12
children, 113 grandchildren and 94 great-
grandchildren." We commend this case to the
attention of those who think professional life
incompatible with maternity.—Ex.

[Column 3]
	The Utah Commission, in a report to the
Secretary of the Interior, recommends that the
women of Utah be deprived of the ballot as a
means of suppressing polygamy. The most in-
telligent women of the civilized world will re-
commend that the present commission to Utah
be supplanted by men of common sense and
ordinary honesty.—Denver Queen Bee.


