Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson
======================================================================

Arsareth. A STORY OF THE LOST TEN TRIBES. Continued. II. My full name is Loner Nikolai Merton. I was born in Chicago, U. S. A., in the year 1883. My father was John Merton, an American. My mother was born in Norway. When I came to the world, my father was away from home, and so the selection of a name for the baby devolved altogether on my mother. Nikolai was her father's name, and Loner was the name of the village from which she had come, and as both had fond recollections about them for her, she gave their names to me as an inheritance. But such names, one may be sure, would not long remain intact in America, the land of abbreviations and nicknames. Nikolai could hardly be shortened into Nick, so Loner lost the last syllable; and thus it came about that I became Lon Merton. Very little of my history from my childhood until I was a man pertains to this narrative. During my youth we moved from Chicago further west. I was an only child. I had the advantages of a common school education. I learned to work on the farm; I traveled considerably in a number of the western states, and thus picked up a good deal of all-round information. Before I was twenty I lost both father and mother. They had accumulated some property which was left to mie. For ten years I lived at the old home, sowing, irrigating, reaping, studying, learning the lessons of life in various ways. It seems to me now that in those ten years on that farm, with ihe eternal hills on one side, and the open valley on the other, I Jived a complete life. If toil and rest, sunshine and clouds, hopes and fears, love and loss — if all these make up a life, then I lived m.ine there, and it seems to me that I should have completed it there — but no, the ways of God are wonderful and not to be found out, at least not by me, it seems. Of that which came into my life, and drove me away from home, made me a wanderer on the earth, I shall say as little as possible in these pages. That concerns no human soul but mine, and the divine heart of One Above. I shall say as little as possible about that, but then it may be impossible to keep it back — it is hard to suppress that which is continually in the heart and in the brain, and even now when I think of that time, I feel as BEYOND ARSARETH. 631 though I could fill these pages with a flood as from my heartbut, no; that would clearly be a waste of precious space. When I felt that I had to leave home I did not sell my farm, but rented it to an honest, trustworthy family. I went to Chicago, then to New York and from there to Liverpool and London. In the masses of humanity found in these places I thought I might find something to distract my mind, but I was not very successful. Then I sailed over to Norway. I could speak a little Norwegian — or at least I thought I could until I landed in that country. But I got along very well, and liked the country. That winter I spent in Paris and Rome, but I went back to Norway early in the spring. I went up to Loner, a little village in the interior of the land. I remained at Loner a week, and had a mind to remain there forever; but that whim soon passed and I was down again to the town of Tunsberg where some of my mother's relatives lived. Tunsberg is winter quarters for a large number of vessels engaged in the whale and seal fishing business. One day, when I was out walking rather aimlessly, I found that the ice was yet thick between the mainland and a small island. I walked on the ice to where a large number of vessels were moored all around an island. They were yet fast in the ice, but there were a number of men engaged in cutting a passage for one of the vessels out into the open sea. I learned that, as the season was advancing, it was time for the fishers to be ofif. They had waited in vain for the ice to break up, but now they could wait no longer, I became quite interested in this scene, and each day I went out to the ships to see what progress was being made. At last the first vessel made its way through a long watery lane and was free. Others soon followed, and as tbey reached the open water, I saw that sailors came from the town with the small steamers and were soon in possession of the fishing ships. Some were steamers, and some were sailing vessels. It was a rare sight when the sails were spread like a mass of clouds, to see the vessel glide over the waves out into the blue ocean. In a week, all but one of the ships had gone. This one lingered and I lingered with it. I had become somewhat acquainted with the men on board, and had made myself quite at home on the little, well-oiled steamer. There was a sort of weird attraction about the ship for me. I say weird because how else can I describe an attraction for such an object, and such surroundings as on board that vessel. At last Eskcn was also ready to put to sea, and I actually felt sorry in having to say goodbye to it. The ship was to get away early next morning, but I was out long before daylight hunting for the captain. 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Captain Larsen," said I, when I had found that officer, "how are you off for men?" "Short yet," said he. "Then take me," said I. "Take you!" he exclaimed, as he looked closely at me from top to toe. "Are you a sailor?" "No, sir," I replied, "but if hands are short, I can help at most anything. I am not so inapt." "Have you ever been in the Arctic," "No, sir." "Ever been a fisher — a common fisherman I mean?" "No, sir; never caught anything larger than a brook trout." "And yet you want to join this crew, and help to catch whales!" The captain swore a little, laughing as he did so. "Where's your trunk?" he enquired. "At the hotel in Tunsberg," I replied. "Well, go and get it. Be back in two hours;— and say, you'll have to get some clothing — " "Fredriksen, Fredriksen," the captain shouted, at which a sailor came up to see what was wanted. "Go with this man to town," were the instructions, "and tell him what he must get in the way of clothing, etc., for a cruise in the Arctic. He is going with us as — first mate, I suppose!" "Fredriksen thought ment of facts until I toldthehimCaptain's last We different. remarks were toback be a within statetwo hours. Black smoke came in great clouds from the funnel of the Esken, and before noon we, too, were out into the sea. Two days later we left the Norwegian coast, and a week later Tromso, and headed for the fishing waters in the Arctic Ocean. III. I believe the Captain of the Esken took a certain fancy, to me, and this, in a way, was my salvation on board that ship. I was absolutely inexperienced in seamanship. I knew nothing whatever of any duty on board. I could perhaps have learned to wash the decks, or help the cook peal potatoes, but Captain Larsen kept me in a resemblance to business in various other ways. He had taken me on the humor of the moment, even as I had offered myself, and it seems he made the best of a bad bargain. I signed no papers, as a regular seaman would have done, I made no stipulations regarding wages, and nothing was said to me about my pay, if I should ever earn any. I don't know but that I was as much the Captain's "first mate" as anything else. The captain spoke English poorly and my Norwegian was no better from a grammatical BEYOND ARSARETH. 633 point of view. Duringour first days out, and in fact all alongwhen he had leisure, he would have me give him lessons in English, and have me talk of America, and the Americans. The fact of the matter was that Captain Larsen was expecting to leave the Arctic fishing business and accept a position in American water the very next year. But that was not to be. But I— what had I done? What would some of the good people in and around the old farm at home now think of me, did they but know? Some of them would think me very, very foolish to thus throw away my life, but little did they know of me, little, I say, did they know of what was really and truly me — my mind, and the life of that mind. I had money, a beautiful farm, some influence, perhaps, a host of friends and one thing only I lacked — but never mind that now. That Northern sea was grand, and I enjoyed it. Day by day, as we proceeded further north, the nights became shorter, until at last there was very little darkness left. The weather was fair, but very cold. The sea was blue, the sky was blue. In an incredibly short time we were in the drifting ice of the Arctic. I had thought it would be a long journey, but it was hardly a week. The white blocks of ice shone in the sun, and now seemed to block our further progress; but long lanes soon opened up on 'every side and on we pressed, from one op&n space to another. We made good progress northward and arrived at the seal's gathering place a few days before we were allowed to kill. I understood that was some tinie in April. It was a rare sight to see the immense ice floes covered with these animals. There were millions of them, I believe, and thev stretched out as far as the eye could see, until they became like mere black specks against the whiteness of the ice. We had no sooner arrived at the "grounds" than a gale set in. It blew furiously for twenty-four hours and tossed the loose ice about like chips. Most of the young seals were pitched into the water and had to take their first lessons in swimming whether they would or not. When at last the storm abaded and the sea became quiet again, there were very few seals for us to capture; so, after a few days, we again headed for the north in hope of finding the old males. The work of taking seals seemed to me such a cruel task that I was glad not to take part in it, though it pleased the men greatly. I never would take part in any killing or butchery at home, and even chopping ofif the head of a chicken was a trial to me. When this seal killing work was going on, the captain and I were sometimes the only hands on board. With the ship safely moored to 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. some ice floe, we had hours in which to talk, and I must say that the Captain's company was enjoyable. One day Captain Larsen showed me the picture of his wife — he pointed it out to me hanging on the cabin wall. Instantly, the face reminded me of someone else, and I stood before it gazing intently. "Well, sir, what do you think of her?" said he, as he peered over my shoulder. "A very sweet face," said I. "Captain Larsen, you are a favored man, and ought to be a happy one." "Favored and happy?" he shouted, as his finger clutched my shoulder until it pained, "with that sweet face back there in Tunsberg, and I not to see it for six months! No, that's the worst of this life," he said in a milder tone, "not to see the face of the woman you love for this long time, nor to hear her laugh, nor her welcoming words; nor to see her smile; or feel her warm, soft arm around your rough neck — Meester Merton, it is very bad' — I can not do it longer. I am going to Amerikee, and she shall be with me all the time." "Yes; Captain," said I, "I do not blame you. You have a lovely wife, and she is good — " "Good? good you say? Yes; the best wife in the world, Meester Merton. They all say that, of course. And you are not married?" "I? Oh, no, I thought you knew that?" "Well, of course, lean not blame you, seeing that I got the only woman in the world." At which he chuckled and laughed. I stood looking at the picture all the time. Something in the face, I could hardly make out what, and the arrangement of the hair reminded me of the past. "You seem to like that picture," asked the Captain. "It reminds me," said I; and then I stopped. "Of someone you know?" "Yes; of someone I once 'knew." "In Amerikee?" "Yes, in America." "Is she dead?" "No, "Oh!" yes, I mean, she is dead to me. Captain Larsen." But there was meaning in that single word. Captain Larsen was a discerning man. He said no more to me then, but put his arm through mine, drew me away from the picture, and said, "Come, we will have a game of checkers." He must have seen my face and read something therein. From that moment I loved Captain Erik Larsen. {To he Continued.)