BARE TREES
By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman
Storm drives the clouds. The sun has set.
A branch moves up and down the pane.
Against the sky in silhouette
The trees are bare along the lane.
The sparrows cheep beneath the eaves.
In chill discomfort they complain.
Above a motley bed of leaves
The trees are bare along the lane.
Belated geese are flying south,
Their call an ancient keen refrain.
The land is drab with autumn drought.
The trees are bare along the lane.
The Gourd Hobby
By Dorothy Nell Mair
AUTUMN days are hobby days! A few seasons past autumn days found us scouting through the fields, the foothills, and the marshes for reeds and weeds of attractive shapes and sizes. We took them home, dipped them in paint pots of enamels and variegated bronze powders, and when we were through we had a gay and artistic winter bouquet. Autumn days still find us searching for decorative material, but no longer do we raid the ditch banks, or snatch long stems of bearded wheat from a farmer's field. Our search takes us now no farther than our own backyards, or the neighbor's, where grow those twisted, fantastic squashes we call gourds.
Gourds are the hard-shelled relatives of garden squashes and pumpkins. Even though we may find them in vegetable gardens, or any warm sunny place where their use as a screen adds a decorative background to some unsightly place, they are not vegetables. They are fruits and the product of a flower. Some of these blossoms are beautiful, covering the long vines that trail for as many as fifty to one hundred feet over the ground, or upon a strong trellis. They bloom at night and are the most attractive at dawn when the flowers are full. With the first rays of the sun the flowers close. The leaves, too, are large and ornamental, adding to their desirability as a decorative screen. The fruit of the vine is the most fantastic and interesting of all, and has been adapted to many purposes.
Growing gourds give a novel touch to the garden during hot summer days. When autumn frosts have killed the vines the fruit is still useful—not as a food—but for decorative ornaments and containers. They are among the oldest of our cultivated plants. The Lagenaria gourds were used by the Egyptians for water vessels and food containers as far back as the Twelfth Dynasty.
MANY years ago gourds were popular as table decorations. Then, as fashion changed, interest in them vanished to some extent. They were much too fascinating, however, to be forgotten by the horticulturists. They were also much too fascinating to be forgotten by the public for long. Interest in gourd cultivation and ornamentation is keener today than ever, having flared forth with new zeal to such extent that the growing, decorating and use of gourds has developed into a worth while hobby.