She is at present President
EDITORIALS
of the Fifth Ward of Provo, Utah. We extend to Sister Merrill and family sincere appreciation for the part this family has had in the advancement of Relief Society work and invoke the blessings of a kind Heavenly Father upon them in their hour of sorrow.
Early Day Minutes
(Santaquin, Utah?June 30, 1878)
THE following minutes taken from the Santaquin Relief Society records under date of June 30, 1878, were read at the President's Banquet recently held in Payson, Utah. The minutes are of interest, bearing evidence of the spirit of our early-day leaders and the clearly defined purposes of the organization in its beginning.
"Minutes of a Special Relief Society Meeting called by Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, June 30, 1878, in Santaquin, Utah.
"Sister Snow spoke and said she came for the purpose of instructing the Relief Society. She said Relief Society was not organized solely for relief of poor, but to save souls and to help bishops in their work of salvation. She said there could not be a true Church without the Relief Society organization, that she had heard Brother Joseph Smith say so. Husbands cannot save us; our salvation depends upon our own exertions. Therefore we should honor our calling, living the life of a true saint. She said we need not be afraid of doing too much or getting ahead of the brethren and if we did, let them hurry up. A woman who always stays at home is not happy, nor can she make her family happy; she is apt to become a fault finder. Relief Society is to promote home industry and to make the people self-sustaining. The people were advised to save grain and to raise beans.
"Mothers were advised to keep their daughters at home and to watch them, not letting them go away to work. The sisters were advised to be faithful to their duties and to keep God's commandments.
"Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke, bearing her testimony to what Sister Snow had said, stating that everything that was necessary for our salvation was in the Gospel, both temporal and spiritual. 'No one can teach a woman how to rear her children but God,' she stated.
"Mothers must rear the captains of the earth, therefore we should exercise care, study the diets of our families, make our own dainties. We should raise our own silk and be self-sustaining. We can make ourselves the elect if we keep the commandments of God.
"Sister Snow again rose to her feet and spoke regarding the right use of our talents.
"The meeting was dismissed by Brother Stickney. The minds of all present had been impressed with the spirit of God, with a sense of their duties both to God and man."
"The cost of alcohol in human life far exceeds that of war, and the victims of alcoholism do not die out, they drag miserably through a sick life, and transmit their decay to following generations."?Professor T. G. Masaryk. (First President of the Republic of Czechoslovakia.)
Music Department
CHOOSING THE CHORISTER
By Wade N. Stephens
Acting Conductor of the Singing Mothers
IN any musical group, the conductor's ability, not that of the members, determines the excellence of the performance. A fine conductor must have all the abilities of a business executive, an army officer, or the president of an organization. Most important of all she must have a thorough knowledge of music and of the art of singing. Such a combination of talents is of course very rare, and we usually have to be satisfied with somewhat less. But here are a few of the things the Relief Society president should look for when she chooses a chorister.
First of all, the chorister should be a trained musician?not necessarily a professional musician, although these are best?one who has studied music of some sort for a number of years. It is a surprise to the non-musician to hear that the best chorister is not always a singer, but often an instrumentalist. This is due to the fact that an instrumentalist is studying music, while a singer is learning to produce a beautiful tone. Often a singer can turn out a better toned chorus, but has not always the musical education necessary to read and comprehend six lines of music at once, and therefore cannot teach the chorus to sing with musical taste. An instrumentalist more often has musical taste, but might not be as good in tonal problems.
Since the best trained musicians in a small community, such as a ward, are usually teachers, the best potential choristers are, in this order, the piano teacher, the violin or cello teacher, the vocal teacher, and the school music teacher. After these come the advanced students of each. The president should try first to secure one of these for chorister. Often the most necessary qualification?musical study?is overlooked in favor of leadership qualities that are useless without musical knowledge. A timid leader who is a musician is preferable to a confident leader who is not. And, having chosen the chorister, the president should leave the personnel of the chorus entirely in her hands.
The technique of conducting is a special study, which few music teachers will understand, because it is seldom taught except at distant conservatories and universities. This, the most universal lack among our choristers, is easily remedied since the organization of the Church Music Institutes by the General Music Committee. Relief Society choristers can take courses in technique and musicianship that will result in better music both in regular meetings and in the appearances of the Singing Mothers. These courses are available to both chorister and organist. If the musicians of your ward already understand the fundamentals of their art, there is a second year course that any musician can take with profit.