Point out the special abilities
LESSON DEPARTMENT
and training of each member of our present Twelve. Why is it wise to have men of diversified training in a council? 5. Show how a man of Philip's temperament and character would be useful as a member of the ancient Twelve.
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 3?ANGER
"Whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Matthew 5:22.
HUMAN tendencies lead us to judge ourselves less harshly than we judge our neighbors. Remember, we are in danger of the same judgment we measure out to others. Anger, an enemy to wholesome personality, is an emotion to be reckoned with daily by most of us. It acts as an insidious poison, destructive to healthy physical and mental functions. Digestion is impaired, clear thinking blurred. Contagion is characteristic of it. Give anger and it is returned with interest. Jesus directed His teachings to our daily needs. He was not as deeply concerned with the justification of anger as with its detrimental effects upon the personality of those who indulge in it. Anger leaves its bad effects whether the cause is just or not.
True, Jesus displayed indignation but not over petty, personal injustices. At the Last Supper He was irritated when the Disciples were bickering as to who would be greatest. It was then Jesus demonstrated the way to show righteous indignation. He, the Master, washed their feet. No angry words could have been so effective. The rebuke was in the spirit of a father concerned with correcting harmful attitudes.
Personality is made up of little habits. The danger of an anger habit lies in the intensity and frequency of its occurrence. Our problem is how to deal with this warping emotion. Repression is not the solution. Outward control still leaves the inward disturbance. Studying situations that produce anger should help to build new attitudes toward persons or circumstances that irritate us.
Modern psychologists agree with the method Jesus used. He taught, supplant anger with a more useful emotion; replace anger with love. "Love your enemies." A victim of vicious hate, Jesus hung on the cross, but He did not retaliate. With love, characteristic of an understanding parent, He said, "Forgive them, for they know not what they do."
"The small personality carries a chip on his shoulder. The great character can go to the cross and pray for his crucifiers."
1. How can analyzing the cause of anger be helpful in combating it?
2. Who benefits most by the elimination of anger?
3. What dividends accrue through the sublimation of anger?
4. In what spirit should righteous indignation be expressed?