EL PASO AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS American side I looked up and saw the Stars and Stripes waving for me. Never did that flag look so good to me before. This was typical of the condition of more than 3500 people. 'They came to El Paso destitute and penniless. 'Their American citizenship was not questioned, but the town was not prepared for such a multitude. 'The officials of the city did all they could to help them, but the townspeople received them with mixed emotions—pity for their plight and hesitancy about taking in so many of a despised people. As there were no houses ready for them at the time, the refugees were unloaded at a lumber yard, and as long as they were in desperate need the United States government fed them. Without any delay, the separate families set up housekeeping between piles of boards and shingles, making the best of what they had until they could improve their situaLATTER-DAY SAINT CHAPEL, EL 387 tions. The unconquerable pioneer spirit of these people showed itself in these trying days. It would have taken a greater catastrophe than this to make them give up. While the women cooked and washed over the campfires, husbands and _ fathers surveyed the town for jobs and vacant houses. Within a week, over half of them had found work and had rented homes. Before a month had passed the entire company had left the lumber yard. [MMEDIATELY after their arrival, Senator A. B. Fall asked for a government appropriation for their immediate aid, and money to send them any place in the United States where they had relatives to help, or an assurance of work. Approximately seventy-five per cent of the refugees accepted this aid, and left El Paso. Most of them went to Utah, but many of the people decided to remain, and it is they who became PASO, TEXAS 388 the nucleus of the present El Paso Ward. They and their children have become respected citizens of the border city. Many of them are now prominent in business, political, and professional circles. 'They have built beautiful and substantial homes, and, all in all, take an important part in the community. One of the beauty spots of the El Paso valley is the country home of Bishop George Q. Payne. It is built of native stone, typical of its surroundings, but it is unusual because of the variety and beauty of the flowers and shrubs which grow in profusion in his gardens. The arid and rocky soil of this country can produce vegetation, but it takes labor and devotion to beautify even a small yard. The saints of the El] Paso Ward take great pride in their chapel. For years the erection of a suitable meetinghouse was the common aim and desire of every Latter-day Saint family in the vicinity, and practically every member has some personal interest in it. It cost approximately $75,000 and compares favorably with the most beautiful and expensive chapels in the Church today. The building is a modified Spanish type, in keeping with the best architecture of the city. The lawns are always green and well-kept, even during the winter. The custodian, Otto Baptist, a convert from Belgium, takes special pride in the upkeep of the Church property. He is, and has been, the only custodian since the chapel was built in 1931. A friendly and gracious spirit seems to radiate from the walls of this sacred edifice, and to the members it is indeed a second home. On RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Sunday mornings they gather on the patio and visit in the warm sunshine. After the evening meeting the foyer is crowded with a friendly, handshaking group who refuse to leave until the last light is turned off. The membership of the ward is constantly increasing because visitors, first impressed by the fraternity and feeling of fellowship the members show for one another, are willing to listen to the truths of the gospel. The El Paso Ward has had only two bishops. Arwell L. Pierce was ordained the bishop in 1918 when the ward was first organized, and he remained in that position until 1942, when he was called to preside over the Mexican Mission. He, more than any other one individual, is responsible for the growth and the happy condition of the ward. He has been a prominent business man for many years in El Paso, but his greatest interest has always been in the welfare of the Church and the people who came to it. His home has been a haven for visitors going to or coming from Mexico, and most of the General Authorities of the Church have enjoyed his hospitality. Because of his unusual possession of a dual citizenship, and also because of the great respect he commands, he has been able to render service to thousands of travelers who have had difficulty in crossing the international border. Whether it was a misunderstanding of the language, laws, or personalities, a call to Bishop Pierce would generally solve the problem. Bishop George Q. Payne has carried on this excellent work. He guided the ward through the war EL PASO AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS years, when, because of the proximity of Fort Bliss to El Paso, hundreds of Latter-day Saint boys were able to come to Church. Special Priesthood classes were held for these service men. The MLA. Planned a full recreation program, and no Latter-day Saint boy needed to investigate the night clubs on the Mexican side of the river for entertainment. 'There were seventy-two boys who served under their country's flag, from the E] Paso Ward. The El Paso Ward was first a part of Juarez Stake, with headquarters in Mexico. In 1919 it was annexed to the St. Joseph Stake, and when St. Joseph was divided, El Paso became a member of the Mt. Graham 389 Stake. Its membership now totals around 700. A high percentage of the people are active in Church work, and a most gratifying number pay a full tithing. Officers travel 250 miles each way every month to attend union meetings at Safford, Arizona, and several high council members and stake officers are members of the El Paso Ward. The dauntless and lofty spirit which has always characterized this group seems to be diffused into all who have later come to make EI Paso their home. Although it was born of revolution and bloodshed, its ultimate destiny seems to be a working unit in the kingdom of God.: ———> Pastoral Gene Romolo Above the emerald herbage-covered hills, A shining dawn arises from the night And one full-throated song thrush blithely trills A paean for the largess of the light. Kissed by the sun and rippled by the breeze, Grainfields are like imbricate amber seas, And pastures that are broad and lushly green _ As David's own, with fatted cattle teem. From a near hillside, bells on browsing sheep Sound, drowsily, a low idyllic lay, And quiet, soft-fleeced, lambs still lie asleep, Unmindful of the re-created day. Here, at this hour, abide content and cheer— For peace, from strength of work well-done, is here. TF Shall Go On Josephine J. Harvey I shall go on, But with the dawn The realization grows ~ That you have gone! I cannot forget And yet — I must go on. My Way Catherine Renstrom I prayed to God for help; Not the easy way, he said; If your shoulders are broad And your heart is brave Your burden will make you strong. So I took up my burden and went my way And my burden became a song.