Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE DEAR OLD GARDEN My dear old garden! Still I call it mine And mine it is, for in its grateful shade Of every tree, and shrub, and flow'ring vine, My children and my children's children play'd. Round these my aching heart instinctive clings, And they to me are sweet and tender things. —E. B. W. WESTMINSTER ABBEY: Poet's Corner—People usually enter the section of the abbey known as the "'poet's corner" at the door where the unfortunate Queen Caroline knocked in vain for admittance to the coronation of her husband, George IV, This section acquired its name from the fact of Chaucer's having been buried there, his monument having been the inaugural one. Among the most important monuments in this section, besides the one to Chaucer, are those of Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, Goldsmith, Gray, Thompson Chapel of Saint Edmund—There isa great fascination in going in and out of the various chapels with their ancient tombs and windows. The sight acts like a spell upon the mind, carrying it into the remote past and causing the actors in former scenes to be present with us. JUNE Thou art here with thy garland of roses; Thou art here once again with thy song; Thou hast brought back the blue sky and sunshine The days so exquisite and long. —Mrs. H. IF. Thomas THE WAY TO REST: Many women never rest. 'They seem not to understand what rest, real rest, means. To throw one's self down with a newspaper or book is not to rest; it is only a change of occupation. To sit down and keep the fingers flying over some sort of fancy work, as if one were pursued by a demon of unrest, is certainly not rest. But to lie at full length on a hard surface; arms extended at the sides, head back, with no pillow, eyes closed, all cares, and worries dismissed—this is rest; this will smooth away wrinkles in the face and in temper; this will give an air of repose to the tired, anxious nervous woman; this will take away many an ache and straighten out the rounded shoulders and craned out necks. SEVIER STAKE: The Relicf Society Conference of this stake was held in the Relicf Socicty Hall in the second ward, Richficld, March 15, 1889, commencing at 10 A. M. On the platform were President E. Bean and her counselors, Jane Spencer, and Theresa Thurber, and several other presidents of branches m the Stake. President Bean said that we had in a way been left to ourselves; the day had come for us to exert our energies and act for ourselves; that we had enjoyed many privileges and we had not appreciated them fully. "Some day these blessings might be taken away from us and we would miss them." We should set a good example for our children.—Chnistina Sellers, Secretary age 294 rPHERE are approximately one hundred women veterinarians 'n the United States. Only one of them, Patricia C'Connor, ls a Z00 veterinarian. At the Staten Island Zoo, in West New Brighton, New York, she arranges the 130-item diet for the animals housed there, C tracts. Their aching teeth, and anaesthetizes them for operations. A regal python, from which she temoved a cancer more than a year ago, is still living. She ls matried to another veterinarian and gives lectures and teaches classes in biology. [UNDES the sponsorship of Lilith Lorraine, poet and publisher of Rogers, Arkansas, the Avalon State Chapter of Utah, with Marjane Mortis of Corinne as director, has recently published a handbook for poets, 'The Lost Word. This useful and inspirational volume contains a poetry dictionary selected by the Utah "Avalons" and a textbook by Miss Lorraine. ASKED at about the age of five what she wanted to be when she grew up, British Edith Sitwell embarrassed her parents by replying, "A genius." That is probably what she is because her early poems, not understood, were publicly hissed; yet now she is being spoken of as a possibility for poet laureate of Great Britain. She and her two brothers, Sir Osbert and Sacheverell, are com sidered "'a prime example of how it is possible to succeed in spite of evely advantage." With the blood of kings and nobles in their veins and wealth in their pockets, they still work assiduously at writing (considered by some too lowly a profession for their exalted station ) They have all won high regard in the literary world.: A collection of dolls of all nations, authentically dressed, is being held in trust by the Children's Museum of Washington, D. C. Mrs. Morris Gewitz, chairman of the project, recently presented to Mrs. Harry S. Truman, to add to the famous collection, a vely "smart" looking doll, dressed as an American business gitl. R. And Mrs. Sam Mercer, of 1 Sioux Falls, Lowa, aged ninetyfive and ninety-four, respectively, are believed to be the longest-married couple in the United States. They have celebrated their seventyseventh wedding anniversary. When moving in a covered wagon from Iowa into Missouri, as a yOunsS married pair, they were stopped and questioned by Frank and Jesse James, the outlaws. All of their six children are still living. The oldest is seventy-four. Page 395 and seek to weaken - and destroy, were Staphically ex. Annual con 'rence of the Pressed, Church of Jesus Christ of Lat. From the OPening address of E] ter-day Saints many felt a great re Ger Benson op the CBS. Church uctance ft leave th abernacle, the Air to the last Words uttered ne felt that as long as he remained at the Concluding Session, one felt within that ereat historic buildin the power, the "Onviction, and the C would be, in some Measure, y Strength of the plea of the Church eld by an echo f the strength of authorities 4 live in accordance the Genera] Authorities 4s demonwith LOspel Principles strated in the conference just ended. Special] €mphasis was Placed on Wo comments were Commonly the need to study the Book of Mor card: "Wasn't it Wonderful that mon, and attention was focused on President Smith was wel] "nough the duty of Latter. To be with ys?" and " 8 Nn all teachers to pre sent truth an leave the interpreta All felt the Impressive solemnity Aine = Hie cent, Fe of the %Ccasion when Our Prophet 2 retation stood with the Bible in his Upraiseqd 'Crp lief Soe:; h: hand in the majesty and power of rs th s Welfan. Members presen 18 calling, and uttered words of. Awful warning to the Inhabitants of all -_ Oration eek te ia the earth f the address of President Belle §. The sourage and yonviction S Spafford as Se pointed Out and resident Clark as he cautioned cautioned Relief Society Presidents Church members 48aNst insidious on their duties in the Welfare pro influences within their midst, and gram, especially as j¢ applied to the vivid Picture drawn by President work of the Sisters McKay, calling the attention of the storehouse 9 saints to the efforts of 397 | utiful, furnished members In the Intermountain on Sunday by the T abernacle Choir, Region ho were Privileged to hear n Monday by Ricks Academy, and the Proceedings Over the radio Staon Wednesday by the Mixed Chor- 10NS, were filled with the spirit of US Of the Brigham Young Univerthe Conference 4nd went on their sity, Y Tejoicing, Tesolved to live bet The th usands of People who af IVES SQ to erit tended the Conference Sessions and he bless; he tens of thousands of Ch Ocha (Hawaii Nake Reliof Society RELIEF Societ women throughoyt the Church JOM With the bereaved Sisters of ahu Stake In Paying tribute to Sister Mary A} Ping Tyau Who died ch 37, 1949. In her Usual good health, Sister Tyau attended elief Society me ting in the aikiki War March 231d. She was sud denly stricken j]] d was j mediately Confined to the hospital Where sh lingered for a fe days Ithout regaining "ONSCiousness. Her Passin €Plives the Organization of a great, g Od, and faithfy] leader d and benevolent friend to € ric Poor alik be a living Conference 'THE Deseret 5 unda Y School Un; unday evening, A Pril 3d, in the Casion for Teviewin he Ichards, jn a dressing the thousands Is close #$SOciation with, Sund ¢ assem bled, ay School leaders and of his Joy Arrangem ents Note: What could be Ore "PPtopriate fo, June, the 10nth of TOses, than a dis CUSSION of flower arrangements and kindred subjects? For this Tea I have asked r. A, eff of t € Neff Flora] Co any, Salt Lake City, to tell f some of his Persona] discoveries th respect to nature's Stock in trade of Cauty, J to "ty he time Over t him," this artic] e A. J. Neff ANY volumes have been dry materia]. Written on the art of flower tC is g stimulatin challenge to the Csigner's abili ranging, Various les tg take seem; have } | en, Around the h. Tule of Covering the Pin frog, may be placed Pleasure CW Pieces of Ower 'Tangement, for it js an with | absorbing Pastime. Is is in the Olved. Th €n, when Ss, you wil] be Us€ the som | " become aware of Othe; Stubs than 4 C well known Pussy Ok around you. Loo willows, By; into the house (proCarefully! 4 any season of the vide YOu don't haye hayfever! The Year, you wil] find Temendous long catkins of the Caroling Poplar, dmount of Nature' SmMamental or the delicay flower of the low] Products you never dreamed boxelder free. Use this Materia] existed. Or cxample, all Winter as it comes on and, when It is gone, long there lS a wealth of interesting there wil] always be OMething else 400 in the sequence of nature to take its place. Whenever you go on a vacation, look for unusual branches, stumps, rocks, and grasses. Here is a hobby for the whole family to engage in together. Make a collection. For instance, instead of speeding across our Utah desert at an unsafe rate, stop once in awhile, get out and walk around a bit. Look especially where vegetation is having a hard time surviving. Usually in windswept areas or on extremely sandy or rocky hillsides—anywhere nature is having a difficult time—you will find the grotesque and weird-shaped branches and trees that are so tremendously interesting. Watch for them! The writer, in company with his entire family, spent two very enjoyRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 able afternoons, tramping the desert southwest of Tooele, Utah. It would be hard to say who enjoyed the outing most, the grownups, or the children, whose keen imaginations were given free play. How delighted they were to discover some twisted branch or weird-shaped stump and proudly add it to our collection. Even the baby seemed to know that some unusual pastime was in progress. My mother, who is of an age when many women pre: fer to sit at home, had a sparkle in her eye, as she picked up such objects as pieces of gnarled native cedar to represent her contribution to our store. We returned home with a wonderful assortment to add to our pleasure and that of our friends for many days to come. The accompanying _ illustration TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS 401 shows a fine specimen, exactly as it was picked up on our jaunt. This branch illustrates perfectly the principle of informal balance. Can't you just picture it mounted on a plaster of Paris base and set in a large window with ivy or philodendron twining around it? OW as to the actual arranging of flowers. Remember it is always desirable to incorporate some accent into the design. It is like a dress. The dress that is remembered is the one with some sort of accent. It gives character to the dress and likewise, accent gives character to the flower arrangement. Usually the best accent flowers are those that grow in tall spikes, such as snapdragons, stocks, glads, heather, Liatris, and the like, many of which are to be found in our gardens. In the absence of a spike flower, one may be improvised by tying or witing flowers together as a garland to resemble a spike. Much has been written about "line" arrangements in flowers, and the term has been unnecessarily shrouded in mystery. Many people have told me: "Oh I couldn't do a line arrangement." Yet they go ahead and make a design and, without knowing it, use an adaptation of this principle. 'There is really nothing difficult about it. A "line" design is merely any arrangement that falls into dominant or accent lines. 'The beginner, placing asters loosely in a bowl usually makes a fine effect. She uses the "line of the circle." Of more character than the line of the circle are those of the vertical, the horizontal, and various combina- 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS tions or adaptations of these two. The principal idea to keep in mind with any arrangement of dominant lines is to keep them flowing, graceful, and spontaneous, never set, rigid, or stiff. One particular form, which is not only interesting but is capable of innumerable variations, ls the line of the asymmetrical triangle. 'The accompanying diagrammatic illustrations show various adaptations of this informal arrangement. 'The diagrams show what would be twigs, branches, or flowers. In actual practice, however, the materials used are seldom found as illustrated but must be cut, bent, and arranged to conform to the desired effect. 'The drawings not only illustrate the principle of dominant lines but serve to show how balance achieved. (Note the effectiveness of may be 403 placing the pin frog "off center" when using a low, shallow bowl.) Much could be said, if space would permit, about the containers in which we place flowers. Do not be afraid to sharply accent. Make dominant lines really bold, leaving no doubt as to their dominance. One good rule to follow is to make your accent a minimum of one and half times the height or length of the container. A florist often uses lines as much as two or three times the dimensions of the container. If any part of the above discussion confuses you, please don't despaitr! Keep trying. Don't lose interest. Learn to experiment. Above all, don't make flower arranging a chore. It should always be on the light-hearted side. Please have fun with your flowers. [This is the third in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. Suitable to particular seasons. —Ed.| In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions -.—<i-<—- Mlargery Katherine F. Larsen Where can one find words for 'her? In the limpid dark wells of her eyes Dwell many mysteries, many sorrows, Yet from their depths spontaneous laughter springs, Sparkling up like fountains toward the sun. Where are words to tell of her? Her voice is as moving and as strangely sweet As the liquid fall of water in a cool canyon. The strength, the flowing quality of her, Are like a constant, slowly changing river. A stillness lies upon her mouth, upon her hands, Until the fluid lines of speech or laughter Ripple them as water under wind. Pressed Flower Pictures—a ''Desj ning'' sning Hobby Mina Hartvigsen Wright, Murray, Utah, Creates Lasting Beauty by Arranging Flowers in Frames "MAKING pressed flower pictures is only one of my hobbies," Mrs. Wright ex. Plains, "but it challenges the skill of my fingers and the reaches of my mind." The possible patterns and combinations of form and color are infinite, but all of Mrs. Wright's "floral portraits"' reveal gtacefulness, expert blending of tones and tints, as well as striking and unique contrasts. In addition to the methods used by many hobbyists, Mrs. Wright experiments with tinting petals and coloring the delicate network of veins in the blossoms. She is an expert at the exacting art of sand pressing. Her designs have won many prizes and awards, including a certificate of honor presented by the Utah Centennial Committee in 1947. Between the newspapers. For weights she uses an old anvil, a pan of nails, or any other heavy material which will exert sufficient pressure. Page 404 PRESSED FLOWER PICTURES 405 When the flowers have been gathered and pressed ready for assembling and designing into "portraits" Mrs. Wright prepares the picture frames and mounting materials. For the foundation of the portrait she uses heavy, smooth cardboard, padded with cheesecloth and covered with silk, satin, or taffeta in cream white or some pastel tint. The flowers are attached to the mounting with liquid paste. A masonite back is used to protect the picture from breakage and to seal it against dust and smoke. Mrs. Wright, in spite of being crippled since childhood, lives a full and useful life. At the age of five she suffered a fall which broke her back and from which she has never fully recovered. Very early in her childhood she Icarned to make yarn flowers and mount them on velvet and under glass. She made tissue-paper flowers; she tinted modeling clay and used it for many arts, making flowers, figurines, and picture frames. She also learned dressmaking, quilt and rugmaking, and various types of handwork. A musician and organist of ability, Mrs. Wright is also a poet, having written over two hundred original compositions. In Church work her particular interest is genealogy, and at home her large family, six sons and a daughter, make life interesting and eventful. "What a privilege is life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," Mrs. Wright often remarks, for she has found the world wide and wonderful, and she endeavors to share her talents and her accomplishments with others.