advertising, newspaper reporting, children's literature, critical articles, stories, and features. At the University of Wisconsin she made a careful study of Latter-day Saint history and wrote her Master's thesis on newspaper treatment of 'Mormonism'"' in its early years. Our readers are already familiar with the many fine stories and articles which Mrs. 'Tarlock has written for the Magazine. Sadie Ollorton Clark, (sister of Fay Tarlock) Houston, Texas, author of "El Paso and the Latter-day Saints;'' Olive W. Burt, Salt Lake City, author of "Young Hearts Are Fragile;" and Estelle Webb Thomas, Farmington, New Mexico, author of "A Family's a Family," are all names familiar to our readers. We have mentioned them before in this department and we shall have more to say about them in future issues. Thank you for the lovely setting you gave my poem "Of April Blossoming"' (April 1949). I am always proud to have my work appear in the Magazine, because I know it is in such good company. —Renie H. Littlewood, Brigham City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine has been in our home for years and I have been Page 432 continually interested in the poetry that is contained in each issue. —Richard L. Pope, Provo, Utah Please tell me the point in the story "Compromise" in the March number... " What should be brought out? Mrs. Lucille R. Seely, Mt. Pleasant, Utah The third prize story 'Compromise' in the March issue was intended to serve as a warning and to demonstrate that no compromise can be made by Latter-day Saints with Church standards. The story showed that if parents fail to observe the Word of Wisdom in their homes and fail to set an example of righteous living, they cannot expect their children to observe Church standards but to follow the parents' unrighteous example. Such _parents bring condemnation upon themselves and jeopardize the eternal welfare of their children —Ed. I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for unnumbered years. I always read it from cover to cover and invariably enjoy it. Thank you for your fine Magazine. —Melba K. Allen, Goshen, Utah Those who really enjoy the Magazine do not mind the increase in price. My sales have fallen considerably, but over 100 per cent is not so bad. We are having wintry weather in midsummer (January). My husband and I have just returned from a 3,000-mile round trip to visit our son's grave. He was a pilot during the war. The place where his body rests is beautiful beyond description—on a gentle slope, surrounded for miles by fields of long, green, waving corn, and in the background majestic and ageless are the towering, rugged peaks of mighty mountains.... The gospel is our only armor. It brings security and peace. —FElsie F. Parton, Penshurst, Australia May you have continued success with the Magazine which is truly an inspiration to all of us out here. —Marion D. Clegg, Heber City, Utah Pook News for the Wool. Ws Now is the time to enrich your library with Sharing the Gospel With Others $2.90 Selections from President George Albert Smith's addresses. Distinctive gems of good will and wisdom. On the Way to Immortality and Eternal |53.00 By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Timely, thorough, interesting, informative treatment of the reasons for the restoration of the Gospel. Vitality of Mormonism _..92.90 By James E. Talmage 104 short, readable, illuminating essays on distinctive themes of the restored Gospel. Introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price ___.$2.25 Readable, factual, fascinating analysis of these modern scriptures. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "Education lives as long as we read good books." 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention 
