[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 884 | Special Feature | The Need of Family Influence Alvin | R. Dyer]
As the core of our civilization, it is the problem of the home to stabilize the famThe Need of Family Influence ily unit; for parents to seek for and take on new strength to meet this problem. The safeguarding of the lives of children; the prevention of their entanglement with superficial surges of spiritual and moral decay, is a prime necessity, if we are to save our civilization. BRING CHILDREN UP IN LIGHT AND TRUTH Acting upon divine revelation from God that conveys this communication unto parents: "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth," (D&C 93:40), the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has renewed its efforts, with greater emphasis than ever before, to strengthen home ties, to build family unity, to bring the reality of God and his purposes into the home, for we know, as the whole of mankind should know, that the failure to do this can only multiply the conditions of moral decay and the lack of spiritual direction that are already upon the world. Of this the Lord in a revelation in our "own time has said: You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction. And now a commandment I give unto you—if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house. (D&C 93:42-43.) To hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saint families who are obedient to this divine counsel there develops order out of chaos, righteous purpose out of lack of direction, and a great appreciation for each individual, 

885 December 1968

 which is pleasing unto God. A greater sense of coordinated values, which builds personal strength, inducing a power of restraint against the superficial things of life is needed. Truly the righteous, well-ordered homes, if the leaders of nations could accept it, is the panacea for their most serious problems. Here is God, if we will but accept him, communicating with his children —to all of mankind—pointing the way. EDUCATION AND THE HOME It is true that our schools play a great part in educating and molding the lives of our youth. But often, without proper home environment, schooling becomes ineffectual. For example, we have the following comments from leading educators: "While about thirty per cent of those who enter high school drop out before graduation, what of the others beyond this who remain to be assumedly exposed to our educational systems and the caliber of teachers who hold forth?" says Ernest O. Melby, Professor of Education at Michigan State University, who infers the lack of effectual school training is due to some extent to home environment:. A large proportion of those who stay in school to graduate leave school with a very poor education, so poor that it unfits them for anything but a low order of skilled labor. Can the teachers be saddled with the sole responsibility... For the failure of the school system to meet the needs of a dangerously high number of pupils? Obviously not. Home environment, financial pressures on the family, and the sheer problem of educating such vast numbers—all have a great deal to do with the crisis. (From the October 886 1964 issue of Redbook Magazine, Copyright © 1964 by McCall Corporation. Reprinted by permission, page 61.) But the incompetence of teachers to give the help needed is also a factor, which again emphasizes the need for educational discipline in the home. James B. Conant, former President of Harvard University, makes this statement, and I quote: The United States today spends a higher percentage of its income on education per child than it has ever spent in its history—yet the net results are discouraging. He goes on to say, in summarization, that children are exposed to about forty teachers on the educational pathway from kindergarten to a high school diploma. With extreme good luck, says Conant, five out of forty or about twelve and one half per cent will be first rate. His statement is quoted further: The others, presiding over seveneighths of your child's career, will range from the adequate—that is reasonably competent, but routine and _ uninspiring—downward to those seriously deficient teachers who are poorly informed, indifferent about their work or temperamentally unsuited to the life of the classroom. (Ibid., page 60.) Thus we can attribute to the classroom that only which it can achieve. THE HAPPY HOME FORMULA The happy home is the heart of success of the family unit. This is achieved by the combined efforts of parents and children. Some few years ago President McKay provided a ten-point program to produce a "Happy Home." I shall refer to these conditions here essentially as he was inspired to give them: 1. Young people should ever keep in mind that the foundation for their own happy home begins in the behavior of pre-marital life. Loyalty to friends, to future husband or wife. To avoid indulgences that will mar the conditions of happiness. 2. Young people should choose their husband or wife by judgment and inspiration as well as by emotion. Wrong choices continue as a cause of unhappiness in the home. 3. Approach marriage with a lofty view. It is ordained of God. It is not something to be entered into lightly, terminated at pleasure, or ended at the first difficulty that may arise. The restraints of youth should ever be acting to preserve the sanctity of marriage that the home may have the proper setting. 4. The noblest purpose of marriage is procreation, the bringing of children into the atmosphere of a righteous and well-ordered home. 7 5. Let the spirit of prayer and reverence pervade the home, that children and parents alike may grow with inward peace that cannot be overthrown by things that transpire outside the home. 6. Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other—'"unless, of course, the house is on fire'— swearing is a vice that has no place in the home or any place, for that matter. 7. Learn the value of self-control. There is an ancient teaching that you find in Proverbs. "He that conquereth himself is greater than he that taketh a city." 8. Foster home ties by continued companionship. In this sense absence does not make the heart grow fonder. It is companionship that fosters love. The vows and covenants of troth are sacred and should be kept. There is nothing in life as compelling as the companionship of husband and wife and the confidence and love of children. There is nothing in this world important enough to sacrifice these conditions. 9. Makeaccessible to children proper literature, music, and appropriate television and motion pictures. 10. Parents by example and precepts should encourage participation in Church activity, thus establishing life's two great The Need of Family Influence paramount ideals. First, to build character, and second to render service. Let children feel that if they would make a home happy—if they, in just a small degree, repay the kindness of parenthood and the sacrifices that Mother and Father have made—they will develop in themselves noble characters. (Taken from The Life and Accomplishments of David O. McKay (unpublished) by Clare Middlemiss.) In supplementing these ten points, the home, I believe should emphasize spiritual strength. Sister Spafford has spoken so well of this today. In this respect, the characteristic of my own mother which I best recall was that of spiritual perceptiveness. This seemed to pervade her life most dominantly. It actually created an atmosphere in our home which bore unmistakable evidence, influence in my life and, I am sure, the lives of other children. She was a "peacemaker" and an example of "meekness." I am told that those of this nature will "see God" and "inherit the earth." TRIBUTE TO MOTHERS I recall an experience associated with spiritual thought, which concerned my own' mother. Many years ago, while fulfilling a mission to the Eastern States, I was privileged, with other missionaries, to participate in perhaps the first pageant-type program at Hill Cumorah. This event came as the climax to our summer activities which had us traveling without purse or scrip throughout the country areas of the mission. My own assignment was in Pennsylvania. On a given day, all missionaries turned their faces toward Palmyra, New York, and with banners 

887 December 1968

 across our backs, upon which was a picture of the Hill Cumorah with appropriate wording, much to the curiosity and questions of many people, all missionaries managed to arrive there in time to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the revealed existence of The Book of Mormon. For three days, to listening thousands on Hill Cumorah and in the Sacred Grove, the saga of the opening of this dispensation and the coming forth of The Book of Mormon was unfolded in song and the spoken word. Today, that story is told on the slopes of Cumorah in a magnificent pageant. This was an important event in my young missionary life. And, of course, my letters home expressed my great anticipation of this event. From my mother came these words of reply and I quote: It will be an honor to stand on the sacred ground where one of the greatest events in history transpired. Surely those who are chosen to be there will be blessed. We all look forward (meaning the family) with interest to that event, for you will actually view the place where the Angel Moroni stood and delivered the plates to the Prophet Joseph Smith. No doubt holy angels will be present and you and others will feel their presence. If our visionary eyes could only be opened we could see and feel many things. (Letter of July 30, 1923.) It is from the last statement, "If our visionary eyes were opened we could see and feel many things," that I desire to speak this day, and in doing so I pay tribute to my mother who possessed a deep sense of spiritual perception, and to all of you mothers here today and to those who are listening in, for 888 it is from womankind and the home that most often come the teachings of spirituality. With reference to the influence of mother, both seen and unseen, I recall the following experience in my own life. In our missionary journeys, as I mentioned, we spent our summer months in the country, traveling the back roads and country lanes without purse or scrip, as they would say in that day. This meant that we would ask for our lodging each night in a home of the people with whom we were doing missionary work. A MOTHER'S MESSAGE In late August of one of my missionary summers we_ were traveling in the country hills of Pennsylvania. One Sunday evening near the little village of Dornsife, my companion and I had found lodging with a very kind lady. She was living in a fine farm house, well kept and as neat as a pin. She happened to be alone at the time, her family was away, but she had no reticence in making us her guests. - All during the evening, as we discussed the gospel with her, and the following morning before we departed, she seemed to go out of her way to make our stay ~ pleasant. For some reason which I did not understand at the time, she seemed to favor me, being especially kind and thoughtful saying at one time, "How proud your mother must be of you." That night, even though I was tired from the long walk and the missionary work of the day, I could not sleep. I thought of my own mother most of the night. I was quite troubled for some reason. Finally, just before dawn, I fell asleep. Two days later, while holding an open air meeting towards evening on the front steps of a village store not far from Dornsife, to which we had invited the farm people in the surrounding area to attend, an automobile drove up. The presiding elder of our conference stepped out of the car and came directly to me, asking that the meeting be closed. This was promptly done. He then handed me a telegram stating that my mother had suddenly passed away on Sunday, and that the family wanted me to come home. As I sat there trying to compose myself from the shock of this news, my mind went back to the previous Sunday, spent in the home of the woman who was so kind. Strange as it may seem, it was while we were there that my mother had passed away. The president of the mission, who wasthen Brigham H. Roberts, requested that I come to the mission headquarters before returning home, but all the way there I prayed that I would not have to go home. At the mission headquarters, which was then 273 Gates Avenue in Brooklyn, I slept in one of the upper rooms of the _ chapel, which was next door to the mission home. On that evening, and I was supposed to leave the next morning for home, I prayed most earnestly that I could stay and fulfill my mission. In the midst of my prayers I strongly felt the presence of Mother. I felt her hand upon my head. I did not see her, but I knew that she was there. It The Need of Family Influence was then that, also, I knew that I would not return home; for she left that message with me. Later that night, toward midnight, a telegram was brought to me in this little room, and it read: "Stay on your mission. God bless you," signed Father. AN EVER-PRESENT INFLUENCE The influence of a good mother is always present in the lives of her children, whether she is seen or unseen. The Prophet Joseph Smith's confinement in Liberty Prison gave to the saints, by inspired and revealed utterance, many noble and lofty truths, and I would like to conclude my remarks with a statement that he made while he was confined in that small fourteen by fourteen foot prison. Said he:.. The things of God are of deep import; and time and experience, and careful and ponderous and_ solemn thoughts can only find them out. Thy mind, O man! If thou wilt lead a soul unto salvation, must stretch as high as the utmost heavens, and search into and contemplate the darkest abyss, and the broad expanse of eternity—thou must commune with God. How much more dignified and noble are the thoughts of God, than the vain imaginations of the human heart! None but fools will trifle with the souls of men. (Documentary History of the Church, Vol. III, page 295.) I am grateful, my brothers and sisters, and _ particularly you sisters who are here today, for the great and continuing work of this organization, and I extend to you the challenge of the great influence that the mothers of this Church can be in the lives of their children. And I bear record of this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.