[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 916 | General Feature | Cookies for the Children Dora | D. Flack]
Flack Ms by J M. Heslop ¥ — ogee enn a amc Assistant cookie makers: Marlane, Karen, Marie; head cookie maker Dora D. Flack, second from the right. 916 Fancy cookies, frosted trees, a gingerbread house, brown fudge, and white divinity—a brilliant background of red poinsettia flowers. Invite your friends and all the neighboring children. Cookies, cookies everywhere! But don't touch until Christmas! Cookies and children go together like bread and peanut butter. Here is a project for the whole family to enjoy. Santa heads can be frosted with a spatula. Coconut is pressed into white icing for beard and fur. Red food coloring paints the rosy cheeks and laughing mouth. Use blue food coloring for the eyes. A decorator set, with tips, does a more artistic job of frosting the cookies. Christmas trees can be iced green with chocolate trunks and decorator balls pressed into the green frosting. Use a doughnut cutter to make angels. Cut plain round cookies and slash twice on a slight curve. This divides the cookie almost into thirds. The bottom third becomes the body. Use the "hole cutter" to make the head, which should be placed on top of the body. After baking, decorate as desired. Paint faces with food coloring. Wreaths are also made with a doughnut cutter. Stars, gingerbread men, and flowers add variety to cookie plates. Are you looking for perfect "packers" for missionaries and servicemen? Yule Cookies and Coconut-Nut Cookies (packed with miniature marshmallows to take the "bounce") arrived in New Zealand in perfect condition two months after being mailed. This Christmas, add cookie-making to your family traditions. And, by all means, let the children help.

They will enjoy it and so will you!; (Continued on page 929) 917 Transparencies by J M. Heslop Sister Layton and her grandchildren admire the antmals—and make identifications. Grandchildren: Carol Layton, center front; Raymond, Joan, James, Christine, and Sister Layton. Yy Ly IS f eam cleus f nimals—A Family Tradition mo > ) Leone G.