[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 946 | Lesson | Social Relations That We May Be One | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 6—That We May Be One Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the value of unity in the home and in various Church activities involving the Latter-day Saint woman. Lesson Follow-up Have a sister report (3-4 minutes) on a scripture, which, in her opinion, is a guide line for a general problem facing the Latter-day Saint woman today. INTRODUCTION This lesson, which is in correlation with Lesson 28, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, titled "Warning to the Priesthood to Follow Counsel," is based on an address by President J. Reuben Clark Jr., delivered at the GeneralPriesthood Meeting of the Church, April 8, 1950. Excerpts from this address and from a conference address of 1943, which also considers the subject of unity, will be used in this social relations lesson. President Clark's message 946 may have important application to a Latter-day Saint woman's home life, her Church service, and, also, to neighborhood and community affiliations. President Clark frequently spoke of the importance of unity. In both public address and in his written works, he stressed the need for unity; unity in belief, unity in spirit, and in action. It was a subject near to his heart. Referring to New 'Testament teachings on this subject, President Clark cites the following scripture wherein Jesus declares his oneness with the Father. From the prayer of Jesus prior to his going to Gethsemane, we read: Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us....... That they may be one, even as we are one. (John 17:20-22; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 10.) UNITY IN HOME AND NEIGHBORHOOD Questions for Discussion 1. Of what value to the Latter-day Saint mother with young children is unity within the neighborhood? 2. In what way is unity of special importance to adult Latter-day Saint women, where there are no children involved? THE HOME THAT UNITY BUILT This is the home that unity built. It was an ordinary house in appearance—with walls and windows and roof—but with a very firm foundation. Inside were the usual fixtures. The parents were well intentioned and intelligent. And there were children, just ordinary, intelligent children. But there was something special, very special, about this house. I think it began when the couple, sitting down together, talked things over. They said, "From this moment forward, this will be a home, not a house, for we will make it a place of happy agreement. We will make it a place of peace, where human relationships are warm and congenial. We will invite love to be ever present, most of all in discipline. Our children will know that they are wanted and loved. We will endeavor to make sharing and respect for the rights of others a part of our thinking and of our daily action. We will play and we will pray together. There will be problems, disappointments, and _ sorrows, Lesson Department this we know, but our faith will support us." And these things happened, just as they had planned in the house that unity built. Listen to their children: Little One of Five Years: "T like our family home evenings because all the people in our whole family are together." The Almost Ten One: "I don't go fishing on Sunday, like some boys I know, but, on other days in summer, my dad takes me and my brothers on fishing trips." The Fourteen, Wishing-He-Were-Sixteen: "No, I can't drive the car, not yet. But the family works things out pretty well car-wise." HOUSE OF DISCORD This is the house that discord built. It was a nice house, with all that a nice house needs—walls, windows, foundation, and roof. There were children, intelligent, innocent children. And there were well-intentioned parents who hoped to establish a successful home. They really hoped that they would, but that is where they left the matter. They did not decide together what they wanted of life as a family. They did not say, "The foundation of this house will be strong and everlasting, for we will fortify it with love and with religion." They did not say, "As the children increase in number, we will work and play and go to church together, that there may be unity and peace in this house." They said none of these things. Moreover, because they did not look ahead and plan, they brought into this house some unneeded even undesirable, things. Some 

947 December 1968

 were so illusive you could scarcely identify them. Then something happened, though it was not a sudden happening. It began when the mother started to listen. She had not done much listening, being so involved in her multiple interests. And listening, she heard the LittleOne-of-FiveYears say to a neighbor child, "Yes, we do have one sometimes, but it's a half-family night at our house, Sally and Bob don't want to be there." And once she heard the Almost-Ten say, "One of my parents says Yes, fishing is all right for Sundays, but the other one says No, church ise And when she listened again, she heard Fourteen, Wishing-HeWere-Sixteen say, with emphasis, "No one in our house pays any attention to anyone else. Nobody seems to care and nobody listens, so what's the use of telling what your troubles and your plans are? I'm fourteen and in the groove, but you just wait until I'm sixteen and I'll make my voice heard." Then the mother said, in anguish, "Something is wrong. Something must be done. This is not a home; it is a house, and it's a house of confusion. It's a house with no compass, with people going every which way. There is no unity, no oneness here." And as she took inventory of her house, she was amazed how few undesirables there were, but also amazed to see how vital and how destructive their influences could be. Now the father had also made some observations, for he had heard the voices of children, above the din of quarrel. So the father 948 and the mother began to list the undesirables which their roof was sheltering: "Criticism of others must go first," the father said. The mother added quickly, "Yes, faultfinding must go, also, so that there will be more room for love." And the father said, '"Love, we will make the rule of consistent discipline." "And we will listen," the mother said, "that we may know what our children think and hope for, and are capable of achieving, and we will counsel thoughtfully." "It will not be easy," the father said, "but we will start now, today." "t know," the mother agreed, "it would have been far easier had we been one in mind, one in spirit, and one in righteousness, right from the beginning." And it would have been. Question for Discussion What do these fables mean to you? President David O. McKay sald: Unity and its synonyms—harmony, goodwill, peace, concord, mutual understanding—express a condition for which the human heart constantly yearns. Its opposites are discord, contention, strife, confusion. I can imagine few, if any, things more objectionable in the home than the absence of unity and harmony. (President David O. McKay, "Unity of Purpose Important to the Accomplishment of God's Work," The 137th SemiAnnual General Conference, The Improvement Era, December 1967, p. 34.) UNITY IN THE CHURCH Speaking, generally, of unity within the Church, President Clark said: Brethren, if this Church is to grow as the Lord wants it to grow, if the: people are to become as righteous in their living as the Lord wants them to become, there must be unity in this Church. It will not do for presidents of stakes or for bishops or for heads of auxiliary organizations to chart their own course. If we are to move forward we must move together. I loathe war so much that I hate to use any illustration in connection with it; but I do call your attention to this fact, of which we are all sensible in these times, that there could be no successful campaign by a series of armies if they did not act in unity. If every general "went off on his own," there never would be a successful operation. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., address at General Conference, April 8, 1950 (Manuscript); Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 28.) IN HARMONY WITH PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH On the importance of Church members being one with the President of the Church, President Clark states: If we are going to bring about and accomplish the great purposes which the Lord has marked out for us and of which we have heard so much, so eloquently, so beautifully, and so truthfully in this Conference, we must be one. As I have said to the Priesthood of this Church over and over again in the past: If we are one, really one, bringing together all of our wills and our forces of character, and our powers, and our abilities into harmony with the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of God on earth at this time, there is nothing which is beyond our power in righteousness. And I can think of nothing that today is more important than that we as individuals shall seek, each and everyone of us, to be one with him who is the Lord's anointed, called and ordained to head His Church. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, October 3, 1943, 114th Semi-Annual Conference Report, pp. 125-126; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 29.) With the foregoing in mind, I recall to your minds that the Lord has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine." We cannot be one unless we are one in spirit, in belief, in knowledge, and in action. There is no other way...." (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, April 7, 1944; 114th Annual Conference Lesson Department Report, pp. 110-116; "The Way of Unity," The Improvement Era, Vol. 47, May 1944, pp. 270-271; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 29.) Class Involvement Questions 1. Do you think faultfinders and commandment breakers are more harmful to Church progress than persecution from without? If so, why? 2. How harmful might be one single Latter-day Saint woman's faultfinding and criticism to the unity of the Church in her area? Discuss briefly. UNITY IN THE AUXILIARIES That unity is of real importance to the forwarding of Church auxiliary purposes, may be attested by every administrative officer of these organizations. Class Involvement Discuss how Relief Society may benefit relative to unity: 1. When members cooperate by trying to understand the program. 2. When they are willing to take direction and counsel. 3. When they are consistent in their performance. 4. When they are friendly with one another, especially to the newcomer or nonmember visitor. 5. When they refrain from criticism of each other and of the local leadership. 6. When they conform to the general standards of the organization at all times. NOT FOR TODAY ONLY Unity within the Church is not a need of today only, but has been important to the spiritual wellbeing of the Church whenever it has been upon the earth. In the early days of the Christian Church, the apostle Paul was much concerned about dissension in the various branches and the need to strengthen them through unity of the membership. 

949 December 1968

 To the Roman saints Paul wrote: Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and the things wherewith one may edify another. (Romans 14:19.) Be of the same mind one toward another.... (Romans 12:16.) To the Philippians he wrote: Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. (Philippians 1:27.) Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. (Philippians 2:2.) SUMMARY The unifying influence of being one in spirit, and mind, and action with others of like belief, can scarcely be overstated. It is especially important to the general welfare of the Church today and to all areas of Church organization. This has always been so. Unity involves human relationships, one to another, and, assuch, it is an indispensable factor in maintaining harmony within the home, in creating a congenial neighborhood, and in promoting community pr
