[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 914 | General Feature | Christmas Home for the Children Oa | J. Cannon]
[Christmas Home for the Children Oa J. Cannon]

Our front door was guarded by two toy soldiers standing at attention under flocked velvet canopies of red and white. A large red bow tied toy drums and horns te an evergreen bough as a door decoration. Each time the door was opened a music box played "Jingle Bells." Just inside the door, an artificial tree was decorated with small toy soldiers, drums, and wise men, and lighted with small elfin lights and tiny sparkle lights. A manger scene was displayed next to the old family Bible which was opened and marked with a velvet ribbon to Luke's story of the birth of Jesus. Above the scene was a ribbon with the words "The Christmas Story is a true story." The fireplace was hung with ten red velveteen stockings, one for each of our nine children, and one for our dog Pierre. On the mantel was another manger scene of porcelain which lit up periodically, along with tiny lights around the wreath. The wreath was made of gilded cones, with clusters of flocked velvet fruit, and a velveteen ribbon. The candles were gold and jeweled. Next to the mantel was a white flocked tree, with multi-colored lights and 914 balls, with an angel on top. Under the tree was a miniature train and track running around a town which was made by the children. It included houses, a church, skating pond with skaters, ski hill with skiers and sleigh riders, an oldfashioned sleigh being pulled by a horse, and a forest with tiny deer peeking through the trees. On the rooftops of the houses, were Santa and his sleigh and reindeer. The round dining room table was covered with a red felt cloth with white fringe, and centered on the table was a gingerbread and candy house with an arrangement of dolls. In the windows stood a "Twelve Days of Christmas" tree of white felt with sequin-covered felt figures—pears, the partridge, and each of the characters in the song. This we designed ourselves. Entering the kitchen and family room, one passed a candy wreath, with scissors for young hands to help themselves. Above, on the mantel, was an oldfashioned clock with a Hickory Dickory Dock mouse of felt perched atop. Of course the hands of the clock were set at one o'clock. Hanging from the rafters of our family room, was a pink velveteen and crepe paper pig pinata full of candy for New Year's Eve. This also we designed ourselves. Our four youngest children were dressed in red polka-dot night shirts and gowns, with matching nightcaps and red velveteen ribbons. 915 enarte) LLACICXA; ookies for Children' Dora D.