[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 902 | General Feature | Editorials The 138th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church; Far From Bethlehem | Vesta P. Crawford]
[Editorials The 138th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church; Far From Bethlehem Vesta P. Crawford]
Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia ). Taylor 902 Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luetla W. Finlinson Norma 8B. Ashton Mayola R. Miitenberger Maurine M. Haycock O The 138th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the historic Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 4th, 5th, and 6th, 1968, in a time of radiant autumn sunlight and harvest time in the ''valley of the mountains." Thousands of saints crowded the Tabernacle and other buildings to hear the words of comfort and counsel, and other thousands throughout the world, by television, telstar, and radio, rejoiced in the testimonies and the inspired guidance of the General Authorities. The singing for the conference was inspiring. The Singing Mothers from the Las Vegas region, under the direction of Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, presented music for the Friday sessions of conference. President David. O. McKay, now ninety-five years old, presided at all the sessions and attended some meetings. His opening and closing addresses were read by his son Robert R. McKay, and his address to the priesthood was read by his son David Lawrence McKay. It was with gratitude and a feeling of special blessings that the saints were privileged to see their Prophet and to hear his words testifying of the divinity of the gospel and its message to the world. President McKay stressed the great need for more religion in the home, and advised Church members to serve their fellow men, and to observe in all their actions the fruits of true religion. He expressed love for the saints and concern for their welfare and gave them the blessings of his calling. ce I am grateful most of all for the gospel, the true Philosophy of a happy life, which Sanctifies and makes Operative all other blessings. There is a general The faithfulness of the members of the Church in the Payment of their tithes and In his fervent closing address, President McKay blessed the saints in all the world: the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land Bountiful... And behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven... And he came down and stood in the midst of them... And... He Stretched forth his hand » +. Saying: Behold I am Jesus Christ, whom the Prophets testified shall come into the world. (3 Nephi 11:1-10.) O The radiance that shone roundabout Bethlehem when the Savior was born Was' prophesied and planned to be a light unto all the world. Not only for the Magi on their far journey, and not alone for the shepherds "abiding in the fields' —not only for those who heard the angels' Matthew, in writing of the sacred birth in Bethlehem, spoke of the prophet who had said "They shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.... And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor..." (Matthew 1:23: 26) The precepts of the gospel, which were carried by the Savior in his ministry, became the counsel given when he Stood in the synagogue 

903 December 1968

 at Nazareth ''where he had been brought up... And all wondered at the gracious words."' (Luke 4:16-24.) The gospel message illuminated the multitudes from the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon ''which came to hear him.'' The gospel of salvation restored by Jesus was taken by his own word to the towns and the cities and the wayside, the seashore, and the mountains, and in Jericho he declared: ''For the Son of man is come to seek and save that which was lost." So it was not alone for Bethlehem that the message came, but for all the world and all time. Even in a far country, in the Western Hemisphere, the Savior chose twelve disciples, blessed the people, and ministered to the children. He gave unto Nephi and other chosen ones directions for the establishment of his Church, and he told the multitude of his further mission: ''But now I go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he has taken him."' (3 Nephi 17:4.) The message of the everlasting gospel came as a restoration in the latter days when Joseph Smith, in the early spring of 1820, saw in a pillar of light ''... Two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description.... One of them spake... And said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear him!" (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:16-17.) Let us remember that Christmas is more than stars and song, more than good will, more than a sacred observance of the Savior's birth in Bethlehem—it recalls the eternal and everlasting gospel for all time and for all the world—for the ages which have passed away— for the present—and for the time to come. VPC %* TOLD BY A SHEPHERD BOY I followed them to Bethlehem After the wondrous word, After the choir of angels came, oe After the song was heard. Over the hill to Bethlehem, Down to a stable door, Into the yellow lantern light, Softly across the floor, Softly beside a manger bed, To find the Christ Child there— How sweet his face, how small his hands, How silky, fine, his hair. Cradled low in a little stall, in a place where the cattle dwell— My heart was filled with a warming joy, A joy no words can tell... I followed them to Bethlehem, While the stars glowed tenderly— Now I keep my sheep on a lonely plain, But a king could envy me. —Sylvia Probst Young 904 Christmas Seals for 1968 'CHRISTMAS SEALS FIGHT A Partridge in a Pear Tree - Tuberculosis... Emphysema Z Air Pollution National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Association IT'S A MATTER OF LIFE AND BREATH O The 1968 Christmas Seal has lifted its motif straight out of old English foiklore. The Seal is ''a partridge in a pear tree''—a plump brown partridge and a ripe golden pear on a field of blue and yellow. Christmas Seals have become a cherished, world-wide holiday custom. It is only proper that this year's Seal is based on another cherished tradition.