[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 905 | Special Feature | A Partridge in a | Pear Tree]
"The Twelve Days of Christmas'' is the rollicking old English folk song in which ''A partridge in a pear tree'' is one of the lines. Much of the fun of the song has always been trying to remember its long list of ''gifts'' that ''my true love sent to me," ranging all the way from two turtle doves to twelve drummers drumming. Yet, Christmas Seals also mean another gift. The breath of life. Take a deep breath. Easy, isn't it? Most of the time we are totally unaware of the breathing process. But for many, each breath is a painful struggle for life. These are the victims of emphysema, chronic bronchitis, asthma, tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases. They are not few in number. Estimates based on household interviews show over fifteen million Americans have asthma or hay fever; nearly four million have chronic bronchitis; sixteen million have chronic sinusitis, two and one half million have other chronic respiratory conditions, including emphysema; 90,000 have active tuberculosis, and an additional twenty-five million Americans have tuberculosis germs in their bodies. Christmas Seals for them mean a gift of health. Through education, research, community service, and other Christmas Seal endeavors conducted by thousands of volunteer and staff workers, the gift of health is made possible. It brings hope to those whose breath of life is waning. For others, the programs of prevention offer hope that they will not one day be numbered as victims. Won't you strike back at tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases which hit you hardest where you breathe? Use Christmas Seals on all your cards and holiday gift packages. And make one of your season's gifts a generous contribution to the Christmas Seal Campaign. It's a matter of life... And breath. 905 'a a O We were not, as my brother Fred used to say, "exactly the poorest family in the community," then he would add, "but it's for certain we aren't the richest, either." We had most of the necessities, but the extras were few and spaced far between. So it was that, by average comparison, our Christmases were rather lean. I remember we used to stare wide-eyed with awe and wonder at the stacks of packages under the Christmas trees at our cousins' homes. All around the bases of their trees would be richly and fashionably wrapped presents—and it wouldn't even be Christmas for another week. At our house, Santa brought everything on Christmas Eve. There just weren't any other 906 presents. To be had, except what we gave each other. These were usually things we made ourselves and we kept them secreted away until Christmas Eve. Then we would get them out and place them in a chair near the tree so Santa could distribute them with the bounty he brought when he came. On Christmas Day we would open our presents, wild with excitement and delight. As soon as everything had been _ opened, inspected, and given an initial breaking-in, we were off for our cousins' houses to see how they had fared. Somehow, looking at all their treasures, made ours seem pale by comparison. We always took fruitcakes, homemade candy and cookies to them. Almost always they gave us grocery boxes of oranges, nuts, and canned goods. The Christmas I remember best was just before I turned eight. My older sister, Marcia, was ten, and she had learned to crochet during the summer. She announced with a great deal of pride that she was going to crochet Mom a pair of hot pads made like little girls' dresses. She had been saving her allowance for the thread, and she had asked her Primary teacher to help her with the pattern. I was really impressed and wished I knew how to do something really beautiful like that. All I could do was some embroidery, but I didn't really enjoy doing it. Besides, I didn't have the kind of money it would take for a scarf or a pair of pillow slips to work. I os hristmas was drawing closer, and we were busy getting things ready. Almost every night we would shut ourselves in our bedroom and work on the gifts we were making for everyone. Marcia would be crocheting as swiftly as she could, being very careful to keep her stitches even and not to miss any. I would sit on our bed and watch her and wish I had something special for Mom, but I could think of nothing. One day I had gone through some boxes on the back porch to see if I could find some odds and ends to trim the book tote I was making for Marcia. Mom had said she would help me sew them on if I could find some scraps and cut out the designs. In one of the boxes I found an old picture frame.