[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 901 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's — espaere a rniure, Sef CE PE ORRACAPEA TAC ACAD Ramona W. Cannon Genevieve Powell, although she is blind, is a successful journalist in the State of Kansas. She is helped in getting around and managing her busy life by her seeingeye dog, Ricci. Mrs. C. C. Long, Ozark, Arkansas, president of the woman's auxiliary to the American Medical Association, is calling upon all state medical auxiliaries to join in launching an action program to end television and movie violence. She hopes for cooperation from other women's groups, P. T. A., and religious units. Mrs. Walter Varney Magee, from Lakewood, Ohio, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, is asking for concerted action throughout America against ''the proliferation of lurid sex, crime, and violence in movies, television, magazines, and paperbacks."' Mrs. Charlotte Leyden, associate director of public education for the National Cancer Society, is working to make a success of films ranging from cartoons to tragic incidents, to be shown throughout the country to battle billion-dollar advertising favoring cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs. Rumer Godden, in Gone: A Thread of Stories (Viking), prefaces each story or group of stories with an autobiographical note relating the writing to some portion of her own life. ''All of them read as if plucked from the heart of life,"" says critic Katherine Gauss Jackson. Ruth Milburn (Mrs. Frank R.) Clark, who was graduated from Brigham Young University with an A. B. Degree in 1918, and who later received a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California, has been associated with the University of Denver since 1945, receiving Professor Emeritus rating in the spring of 1968. She is a recognized national authority on children's speech rehabilitation and was professor of speech pathology at Denver. She was voted the outstanding woman professor in 1959. She resides in Denver, where she continues her research and writing. Mrs. Betty Mintz is a navy astronomer for the United States. She is especially noted for her observance of Icarus, an asteroid (starlike body smaller than the planets), which wheels around the sun every 409 days. Mrs. Mintz reports that much valuable scientific data are being received through a study of Icarus, involving a general testing of the theory of relativity. Dr. Leona Holbrook, professor and chairman of the department of physical education for women at Brigham Young University, has received an Honor Fellowship Award from the American Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. Recently Dr. Holbrook directed a study in educational planning in health, physical education, and recreation in Chile, South America. 901 f q The 138th Semi-Annual ynference of the Church Volume 55 December 1968 Number 12 = Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elina P. Haymond ifary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz E: zabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner trene C.
