The Relief Society Magazine - December 1968, Vol. 55, No. 12

Mary and Her Son Margery S. Stewart You must have wondered When he went away How they would receive him.. Tall and gentle Son. All his words were wheat Within your fields, But remembering Egypt And the hidden flight, You feared that stony Acres stretched before Him now and thorns. In firelanes at dusk You heard the laws Fall, as if fresh minted, From his tongue. His Parables were beautiful To you, yet I believe You sensed the coming sword.... All this before his shadow Quit your door, Your warm loaf napkined In his lonely hand. For you The spinning, candlemaking, Fleece.. Oh, heavy, heavy wheel Oh, wheel of wood Turning toward the doorway Where he stood.

The Cover: "Flight Into Egypt" Murillo (1617-1682) Transparency supplied by the Detroit Institute of Arts Reproduced with permission Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: "Come Follow Me" Painting by John T. Harwood Reproduced by permission of Brigham Young University The original of this painting hangs in the library of the Joseph Smith Building

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

My August (1968) Magazine came today and, of course, I was pleased with my story in it ("Kitchen Money"), but I was especially pleased with the illustrations (by Mary Scopes). She does a beautiful job. The characters illustrated were just as I had pictured them in my mind, particularly Jase and Mrs. Bryson. Please give the illustrator a special thanks for me. The illustrations add so much to the interest and charm of the Magazine.

Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine is a constant inspiration to the women in our stake with each issue.

Bonnie B. Singleton, President Atlanta Stake Relief Society, Chamblee, Georgia

May you always be blessed for your part in it.

Evelyn R. Bluth, President Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, Santa Monica, California

I love all of it cover to cover. I certainly didn't know what I was missing.

Loretta G. Hansen Tremonton, Utah

We want to express our appreciation for the wonderful articles in the Magazine, especially the editorial in the September issue "It Is the Little Things That Count" (by Counselor Louise W. Madsen), and the one on visiting teaching "Because They Care." It is a wonderful gift and also a missionary tool not only in the ward, but also many inactive members who were grateful to receive the truly inspired Magazine.

Nona Stopher Mt. Pleasant, West Australia

I would like to express my gratitude for the beautiful message in "Because They Care" (by Zelma R. West) in the September Magazine. Having been called recently to serve as president of the Lakeview Ward Relief Society, I realize more than ever the importance of visiting teaching and the need to visit each sister in the ward. Our lives are truly enriched by The Relief Society Magazine.

Jo Beth Bradley Springfield, Idaho

882

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.