[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 922 | General Feature | Christmas Is for Friends Tasma | P. Dansie]
[Christmas Is for Friends Tasma P. Dansie]
[Content needs re-extraction — duplicate of following article]

Christmas Is for Friends
Tosma P. Dansie

A woman who lives alone invites her friends to dinner

Transparencies by J. M. Heslop

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Wedgewood table setting, with pink candles, crystal, and silver. Clustered white figurines for centerpiece.

• Plan a casserole as the main dish when you entertain your friends during the holiday season. Begin the dinner with a fruit cup—perhaps a mixture of orange, grapefruit, and pineapple segments, interspersed with maraschino cherries for sparkling color; prepare a tossed green salad (with radishes); and, for dessert, thin slices of fruit cake, or frosted homemade eclairs.

Recipes for three favorite casseroles are given here. Perhaps you will want to try them all during the holidays. Pieces of turkey could be substituted for chicken in two of the casseroles.

Chicken-Broccoli Casserole

1 to 2 lbs. broccoli (parboil)           Make white sauce by mixing:
Brown 4 to 6 chicken breasts in butter.   ¼ cup butter (2 ounces)
                                          2 tbsp. flour

Add milk to make a thick paste or use one can of cream of chicken soup (10 ounces) in place of the milk. Pour over chicken. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake slowly about 1 hour in 300° oven, cover dish with aluminum foil.

922

Chicken Parisienne

Place 4 large or 6 medium-sized chicken breasts, skinned side up, in an 11 x 7 x 1½ inch baking dish. Combine 1 can (13 ounces) condensed milk and one can (10 ounces) mushroom soup, and 1 3-ounce can or ¾ cup mushrooms and liquid with 1 c. dairy sour cream. Pour over uncooked chicken and sprinkle generously with paprika. Bake at 300° for 1 to 1¼ hours or until tender and a golden brown. Serve over hot, fluffy rice.

Ground Beef Casserole

1 lb. ground beef                           1 c. uncooked rice
1 large onion (chopped and                  1 c. chopped celery (uncooked,
    sautéed in oil)                             finely chopped)
1 can cream of mushroom                     soy sauce, salt, and pepper to taste
    soup (10 ounces)

Brown the beef in a large frying pan. Add the chopped onion, cream soup, rice, and seasoning, and cook slowly until done, approximately one hour. Just before removing from heat add the celery. It should be crisp when eaten.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Seated around the table, left to right: Zina Harper, granddaughter; Emma L. Thomas, lifelong friend; Edith P. Johnson, Tasma's sister; Tasma, at right.

923
