[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 900 | Special Feature | With a Heart Full of Gratitude Relva | B. Ross]
With a Heart Full of Gratitude Relva B. Ross D When the time comes that your fingers will not work, your vision is dim, your hearing dull, and your feet unsteady; you cannot sew, you cannot read (not very much), you cannot shop, but you are 'just fine, thank, you," what do you do? You remember! You remember the gay times, the happy times, the times you realized you had made a step forward. You remember the first Christmas tree, a pungent juniper Father brought in after you and two little brothers were asleep; the flaxen-haired doll, high on the tree in the Alpine chapel, which Santa handed to you at the community Christmas party; the early walks through the crisp snow to call greetings to friends and relatives; the wonderful year when your own little son first realized what it was all about; the six o'clock pageants which truly inspired the spirit of Christmas, and the time when your tall, handome son was home on leave and no one allowed a second's thought that this would be his last Christmas. What do you remember? The wonderful books you have read, the armchair travels you have taken to the far corners of the earth; the history you have lived vicariously from the beginnings of time; the excitement of sharing romance with the heroines of fiction, and the emotion experienced in acquaintance with the poets! What do you see? Utah valley from the top of Timpanogos; the Canadian Rockies and prairie sunsets; Utah County when, after a twoyear absence, you round the Point-of-the-Mountain and know you are home again! You recall the satisfaction of adding a new ancestor to your family tree after weeks, or months, or maybe years of research. And, from all through the years, you remember with deep gratitude the kind, thoughtful friends and relatives who have smoothed the path and made the way clear when the going got rough; those who continue to be concerned for your well-being, who call, write letters, shovel snow, and even make it possible, by. Addressing the envelopes, to get letters mailed. So to each of you, everywhere, a heart full of gratitude and again the old familiar, but never trite, wish: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!