[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 881 | Article | Mary and Her Son | Margery S. Stewart]
12 Mary and Her Son Margery S. Stewart You must have wondered When he went away How they would receive him.. Tall and gentle Son. All his words were wheat Within your fields, But remembering Egypt And the hidden flight, You feared that stony Acres stretched before Him now and thorns. In firelanes at dusk You heard the laws Fall, as if fresh minted, From his tongue. His Parables were beautiful To you, yet I believe You sensed the coming sword.... All this before his shadow Quit your door, Your warm loaf napkined In his lonely hand. For you The spinning, candlemaking, Fleece.. Oh, heavy, heavy wheel Oh, wheel of wood Turning toward the doorway Where he stood. The Cover: "Flight Into Egypt" Murillo (1617-1682) Transparency supplied by the Detroit Institute of Arts Reproduced with permission Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: "Come Follow Me" Painting by John T. Harwood Reproduced by permission of Brigham Young University The original of this painting hangs in the library of the Joseph Smith Building Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far My August (1968) Magazine came today and, of course, I was pleased with my story in it ("Kitchen Money"), but I was especially pleased with the illustrations (by Mary Scopes). She does a beautiful job. The characters illustrated were just as I had pictured them in my mind, particularly Jase and Mrs. Bryson. Please give the illustrator a special thanks for me. The illustrations add so much to the interest and charm of the Magazine. Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is a constant inspiration to the women in our stake with each issue. Bonnie B. Singleton, President Atlanta Stake Relief Society, Chamblee, Georgia May you always be blessed for your part in it. Evelyn R. Bluth, President Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, Santa Monica, California I love all of it cover to cover. I certainly didn't know what I was missing. Loretta G. Hansen Tremonton, Utah We want to express our appreciation for the wonderful articles in the Magazine, especially the editorial in the September issue "It Is the Little Things That Count" (by Counselor Louise W. Madsen), and the one on visiting teaching "Because They Care." It is a wonderful gift and also a missionary tool not only in the ward, but also many inactive members who were grateful to receive the truly inspired Magazine. Nona Stopher Mt. Pleasant, West Australia I would like to express my gratitude for the beautiful message in "Because They Care" (by Zelma R. West) in the September Magazine. Having been called recently to serve as president of the Lakeview Ward Relief Society, I realize more than ever the importance of visiting teaching and the need to visit each sister in the ward. Our lives are truly enriched by The Relief Society Magazine. Jo Beth Bradley Springfield, Idaho The Need of Family Influence President Alvin R. Dyer Of the First Presidency {Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] O I think this afternoon we have listened to talks of great wisdom and very high caliber which bespeak the leadership of this great organization today. I have always felt that the Church and kingdom of God ls highly benefited by the Relief Society organization as it continues under its present great leadership, to carry out with intelligence and spirit, the purpose for which it was organized. This morning in meeting with President McKay, who gave the appointment for me to be here today, he asked to have his heartfelt feelings and blessings expressed to you of the Relief Society at this meeting, and there is, perhaps, no one on earth today who appreciates more the value and purpose of this great organization. My remarks today go more directly to the individual than anything else, and particularly to the influence a mother can wield in the lives of her children. The greatest asset of America is not its mineral and oil wealth, not its industries or stockpiles of atomic and hydrogen power, not in its ability to explore space in search of answers to the mysteries of the universe, not even in its great universities, and perhaps not even in its religious institutions, in the freedom of which our constitution was 884 founded. America's greatest asset lies in the potential of her people or the potential of the individual. Man is greater than that which he creates, and God is greater than his ruling power. HOME, THE CENTER OF CIVILIZATION The greatest asset to the individual is the home, where the initiation to mortal life is that of a warm, loving, and righteous atmosphere of a family. A place where the bumps and hurts of childhood and the quandaries of adolescent years find refuge, understanding, and _ strength; a place that, regardless of what might be twisted and out of order on the outside, will be organized and at peace on the inside. The home is the center, the bulwark of civilization; it is not in the state, nor is it in any system that would control the individual. Freedom and the exercise of agency within that freedom is, as has already been spoken of today several times, the God-given right of agency of every man and woman. And this finds its highest expression in the citadel of the home, for the home is the center of civilization, and the primary responsibilities of the home rest upon the parents. The greatest trust that can come to a man and woman in this life is the placing in their keeping the well-being and training of a spirit child of God, for which they have provided a physical body. Concerning this the Lord has said, "they shall teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D & C 68:28.) In ancient times, in the days of the patriarchs, the family life was the whole of life. One of these patriarchs proclaimed this: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." (Proverbs 22:6.) A full interpretation of this scripture implies a way of righteous living on the part of the parents and a teaching of this way unto the children. One would be blind to the truth, or completely apathetic, if the perils, turbulence, and confusion of our modern times were not recognized.