[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 920 | General Feature | Christmas Comes to Denmark Inga H. | Nielsen Dougal]
Meet  the  many  animals — especially  the  traditional  Christmas  animals — the  donkey, 
the  camel,  the  reindeer.  Also,  the  horses  have  come  for  Christmas. 
Of  course,  we  were  not  allowed  to  sample  the  animals,  but  as  we  were  never  able 
to  judge  just  the  right  amount  of  candy  to  fill  the  molds,  we  dropped  the  remainder 
by  spoonfuls  on  heavily  oiled  platters  and,  oh,  how  luscious  were  tne  flat,  round,  clear 
candies  we  might  have  to  eat. 
If  you  were  fortunate  enough  to  have  a  grandfather  (or  anyone  else)  who  gave 
you  some  molds,  I  pass  on  to  you  the  recipe  we  found  most  successful. 
2  c.  sugar 
1  c.  light  corn  syrup 
%  c.  water 
%  tsp.  salt  (optional) 
food  coloring 
any  flavoring  desired 
Combine  sugar,  corn  syrup,  and  water.  Cook  slowly,  stirring  until  sugar  dissolves.  Cook 
to  hard  crack  stage,  remove  from  heat,  and  pour  quickly  into  molds  that  have  been 
oiled  (preferably  with  a  heavy  oil,  such  as  olive  oil),  and  heated. 
If  you  are  not  fortunate  enough  to  have  such  molds,  perhaps  they  may  be  bor- 
rowed or  purchased,  or,  an  experiment  might  be  made  using  cookie  cutters  and  at- 
taching the  two  sides  together  with  the  warm  candy  mixture.  Your  family  will  love 
the  flat  discs  of  flavorsome  color  this  recipe  makes. 
919 

Christmas  Comes  to  Denmark 
Inga  H.  Nielsen  Dougal 
(from  Aarhus,  Denmark) 
*  An  old  Danish  custom  demands  that  no  visitor  to  your  home  during  the  Christ- 
mas season  may  be  allowed  to  leave  without  having  tasted  your  Christmas  cookies 
(Klejner) — otherwise,  you  run  the  risk  of  the  visitor  "carrying  the  Christmas  spirit 
away." 
Transparencies  by  J  M.  Heslop 
A  lovely  table  setting.  Mrs.  Dougal  has  placed  her  heirloom  china  on  a  snowy  cloth. 
The  pattern  is  called  Kongelig  Muselmalet,  made  by  the  Royal  Copenhagen  China 
Company,  Copenhagen,  Denmark.  The  pattern  is  over  one  hundred  years  old,  and  is 
still  being  made  today.  The  design  is  hand  painted  by  people  who  have  had  at  least 
three  years  experience  in  china  painting.  Mrs.  Dougal' s  Grandmother  gave  her  most 
of  the  pieces,  but  she  has  supplemented  with  a  few  extras.  She  is  wearing  the  national 
Danish  costume. 
920 

Recipe  for  Klejner  (Smalls) 
4  c.  flour 
1  c.  butter 
Y4  c.  sweet  cream 
V2  c.  sugar 
tsp.  salt  of  hartshorn 
3  eggs 
vanilla  or  lemon  peel 
Mix  all  ingredients  together  into  a  dough  and  set 
aside  to  cool  for  about  half  an  hour.  Roll  out  thin 
and  cut  into  long  strips  about  1%  inches  wide.  Cut 
the  strips  across  diagonally  into  smaller  strips  about 
3y2  inches  in  length.  In  the  middle  of  each  of  these 
smaller  pieces  make  a  slash  with  the  point  of  a 
knife.  Pull  one  end  of  the  piece  through  the  slash 
to  form  a  half-knot.  Drop  into  boiling  fat  and  cook 
until  golden  brown,  turning  now  and  then  with  a 
fork.  Lift  out  with  a  perforated  spoon  and  place  in  a 
strainer  to  allow  the  fat  to  drip  off.  Makes  approxi- 
mately 150. 
An  heirloom  replica  of  the  first  Christmas.  Note  the  "stone"  towers,  the  arched  gate, 
the  camels  at  the  end  of  their  far  journey— the  mother  and  the  child.  This  setting  for 
the  Christmastime  has  given  joy  to  many  children,  and  to  grownups,  as  well.  The 
delicately  carved  figurines  are  beautifully  colored  and  placed  with  care. 
921 

Christmas  Is  for  Friends 
Tasma  P.  Dansie 
A  woman  who  lives  alone  invites  her 
friends  to  dinner 
Transparencies  by  J  M.  Heslop 
Wedgewood  table  setting,  with  pink  candles,  crystal,  and  silver.   Clustered  white 
figurines  for  centerpiece. 
•  Plan  a  casserole  as  the  main  dish  when  you  entertain  your  friends  during  the  holi- 
day season.  Begin  the  dinner  with  a  fruit  cup — perhaps  a  mixture  of  orange,  grape- 
fruit, and  pineapple  segments,  interspersed  with  maraschino  cherries  for  sparkling 
color;  prepare  a  tossed  green  salad  (with  radishes);  and,  for  dessert,  thin  slices  of  fruit 
cake,  or  frosted  homemade  eclairs. 
Recipes  for  three  favorite  casseroles  are  given  here.  Perhaps  you  will  want  to  try 
them  all  during  the  holidays.  Pieces  of  turkey  could  be  substituted  for  chicken  in  two 
of  the  casseroles. 
Chicken-Broccoli  Casserole 
1  to  2  lbs.  broccoli  (parboil) 
Brown  4  to  6  chicken  breasts  in  butter. 
Make  white  sauce  by  mixing: 
V2  square  butter  (2  ounces) 
2  tbsp.  flour 
Add  milk  to  make  a  thick  paste  or  use  one  can  of  cream  of  chicken  soup  (10  ounces) 
in  place  of  the  milk.  Pour  over  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  slowly 
about  1  hour  in  300°  oven,  cover  dish  with  aluminum  foil. 
922
