[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 951 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement "The Appreciation of Beauty" Bruce | B. Clark]
With emerald-glow, —Alda Larson Brown 950 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—The Appreciation of Beauty Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Five By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "I pray Thee, oh God, that I may be beautiful within." —Socrates Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that beauty enriches living and that a life in harmony with truth and virtue is the most convincing manifestation of womanly beauty. MUSIC Beethoven Symphony #7 in A Major, Opus 92 First movement, Péco Sostenuto—Vivace Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University The topic chosen for Lesson 5 The Appreciation of Beauty gives wide scope for selecting a piece of music to be included in this presentation. Edna St. Vincent Millay's sonnet, ''On Hearing a Symphony of Beethoven" in the text, however, would naturally lead us to choose a movement from one of the nine symphonies of that great composer. The first movement of the Seventh Symphony is selected because of its combination of profundity and cheerfulness, of nobility and lyricism. It is familiar, yet not as well known as some other symphonies. ART: ''Stowstorm"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British Painting reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, page 685. Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, page 690. Like most of the other concepts that we are exploring in this series of lessons, beauty (and its opposite, ugliness) is manifest abundantly both in the natural universe and in our human lives, to say nothing of the whole world of art (literature, music, painting, cated to the creation and sharing of beauty. In order to touch upon these several aspects of beauty, we are dividing this lesson into three subsections: first, beauty in man and woman; second, beauty in nature; and _ third, beauty in art. 951 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON sculpturing, etc.), which is dedi- December 1968 BEAUTY IN MAN AND WOMAN Anyone who can appreciate beauty knows that there is visual beauty in the human form and face equaling whatever else of beauty the world has to offer. Painters and sculptors have spent more hours re-creating the beauty of the human face and figure than on all other things combined, and poets, too, have lavished their most eloquent words in praise of human beauty. Thus, we find Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849) writing a poem "To Helen" that glows with lovely phrasing as he describes Helen of Troy, ancient symbol of the idealization of pure beauty: Helen, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, way-worn wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo! In yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand! The agate lamp within thy hand, Ah! Psyche, from the regions which Are Holy Land. There is, however, another kind of womanly beauty more beautiful than any that is merely physical. Indeed, physical beauty at its loveliest is radiant with the reflection of inward spirituality. And even when physical beauty seems altogether lacking, there can exist an integrity of character, a pleasantness of personality, and a conscious good grooming that are far more attractive than mere prettiness or handsomeness. We can't all be pretty or hand- 952 some, but we can all be friendly and genuine. George Eliot (1819- 1880) had this in mind when, in her novel Adam Bede, she argued for honesty and realism in literature: These fellow-mortals, every one, must be accepted as they are: you can neither straighten their noses, nor brighten their wit, nor rectify their dispositions; and it is these people— amongst whom your life is passed— that it is needful you should tolerate, pity, and love.... So I am content to tell my simple story, without trying to make things seem better than they are; dreading nothing, indeed, but falsity.... All honour and reverence to the divine beauty of form! Let us cultivate it to the utmost in men, women, and children —in our gardens and in our houses. But let us love that other beauty too, which lies in no secret of proportion, but in the secret of deep human sympathy. "STELLA'S BIRTHDAY" Jonathan Swift (1667-1745) also knew that surface beauty is a deceptive quality. In "Stella's Birthday" he shows his lifelong devotion to his beloved Stella (Hester Johnson). He makes her not only a very believable woman, but also a very adored woman. The poem is charming and lovely, not so much because Stella at thirty-four is double her sixteenyear-old size, as because Swift makes clear that he loves her for her mind, her wit, her personality, her goodness rather than for her mere physical beauty: Stella this day is thirty-four (We shan't dispute a year or more)— However, Stella, be not troubled, Although thy size and years are doubled, Since first I saw thee at sixteen, The brightest virgin on the green, So little is thy form declined; Made up so largely in thy mind. Oh, would it please the gods, to split Thy beauty, size and years, and wit; No age could furnish out a pair Of nymphs so graceful, wise, and fair: With half the lustre of your eyes, With half your wit, your years, and size. And then, before it grew too late, How should I beg of gentle Fate (That either nymph might have her swain) To split my worship too in twain. In the preceding four years of this series we have, again and again, presented portraits of admirable men and women—not perfect, because they are human, but with admirable qualities. (See Section 5 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books for a listing of about thirty of these portraits.) One further example of beauty in character, referred to in lesson 2, is Socrates. (See Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, Section Two.) "T pray Thee, oh God, that I may be beautiful within" is the statement by Socrates with which this lesson begins. If ever a man had courage and integrity, which together make beauty of character, Socrates did. Unflinching honesty compelled him to die rather than to violate his integrity. He said, moreover, that whatever the consequences, one should recognize the authority of the law. And so he drank hemlock poison, comforting his friends who had gathered round in his prison cell as the numbness of death crept upon him. All of this is recorded by the great philosopher Plato, who was Socrates' pupil, in the dialogues Crito and Phaedo. The following brief passage is from the Crito: Think not of life and children first, and of justice afterwards, but of justice first.... Depart in innocence, a sufferer and not a doer of evil; a victim, not of the laws, but of men.... Men of Athens, Lesson Department I honor and love you; but I shall obey God rather than you. BEAUTY IN NATURE In "Fra Lippo Lippi," one of his great poems on art, Robert Browning says: You've seen the world— The beauty and the wonder and the power, The shapes of things, their colors, light and shades, Changes, surprises—and God madeit all! — For what?... What's it all about? To be passed over, despised? Or dwelt upon, Wondered at? Oh, this last of course!— you say: But why not do as well as say—paint these Just as they are, careless what comes of it? God's works—paint any one, and count it. Crime To let a truth slip.... If you get simple beauty and naught else, You get about the best thing God invents—... This world's no blot for us, Nor blank; it means intensely, and means good— To find its meaning is my meat and dnnk. The speaker is Fra Lippo Lippi, one of the major Renaissance painters of Florence, into whose mouth Browning puts his own philosophy of art—that God created a world of beauty, and it is the artist's opportunity to reproduce this beauty, isolating points of beauty for greater appreciation. Many poets, as well as painters, share this philosophy of art, and hundreds of excellent poems are concerned primarily with describing the beauties of nature. One of the most gifted of all nature lovers was Gerard Manley Hopkins (1844-1889). Hopkins combines a love of nature with a worship of God, clearly seen in the following little poem called "Pied Beauty": 

953 December 1968

 Glory be to God for dappled things— For skies as couple-colored as a brinded cow; For rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim; Fresh-firecoal; chestnut-falls; wings; Landscapes plotted and pieced—fold, fallow, and plow; And all trades, their gear and tackle and trim. All things counter, original, spare, strange; Whatever is fickle, freckled (who knows how?) With swift, adazzle, dim; He fathers-forth whose beauty is past change: Praise Him. Finches' slow; sweet, sour; Stippling is a method of painting by dotting with the end of a brush, which is exactly the right way to describe the "rose-moles"' dotting the sides of a certain kind of trout—one of the several multicolored things that Hopkinsdraws attention to in this exciting little poem. Equally superb as a nature poet who both described the beauties of nature and created beautiful poetry in the process is John Keats (1795-1821). No poet was concerned about beauty more than Keats, who in Endymion said "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" and in "Ode on a Grecian Urn" said "Beauty is truth, truth beauty,—that is all/Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." SONNET 'COMPOSED UPON WESTMINSTER BRIDGE" Another great nature lover, who found not only beauty in nature but also sublime religious experiences, was William Wordsworth (1770-1850). Of his many nature poems, one of the finest is a sonnet "Composed upon West- 954 minster Bridge" which describes the huge city of London asleep in early morning, bathed from all sides with the beauties and wonders of nature—the gliding river, the open fields, the streaming early-morning sun, and the pure smokeless air in the sky overhead. The sonnet provides us with at least two levels of appreciation. First of all, it is aesthetically beautiful—the liquid sound of rhyme and rhythm, the clean, clear images, the simple but dignified diction. Beyond this aesthetic appeal lies deeper meaning, however. The city is personified as a sleeping giant, wearing the beauty of the morning like a garment (lines 4-5), with a mighty heart beating as it sleeps (line 14), and with the pure world of nature all around. The "smokeless air," contrasting with the smoke and grime of normal city atmosphere, seems especially significant, apparently symbolizing the purity of nature's spirit which pervades the entire scene. The result is a poem enchanting in its loveliness as we feel the slumbering power of the great city of London almost transfigured in the beautiful full dawn of morning.

Earth has not anything to show more fair: Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty. This City now doth, like a garment, wear The beauty of the morning; silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields, and to the sky, All bright and glittering in the smokeless air. Never did the sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour, valley, rock, or hill; Ne'er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep! The river glideth at his own sweet will: Dear God! The very houses seem asleep; And all that mighty heart is lying still! ROSE PARADE TOUR December 26 - January 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 RETROSPECT When my children were young, And careless or mussy, My grandmother smiled, As I tried to be fussy; And she laughed, as with pride I assuredly stated, "Things will be different, After they're mated, No broken knick knacks— No finger marks then, My house will be tidy And spotless again." But now, I laugh, too, At such trivial talk, For my first darling grandchild Has just learned—to walk! —Ruth G. Rothe Lesson Department BEAUTY IN ART In its concern for beauty, literature treats not only beauty in people and beauty in nature but also beauty in art. In this sense, literature both discusses and creates beauty. As an example of sheer artistic beauty in poetry we draw attention to "Kubla Khan" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. (Because this poem is fairly long, we do not have space to print it here; but it is printed in full in the text and is also easily available in many other volumes of poetry.) Many readers feel that there is deep symbolic meaning in this poem, and perhaps there is. Various interpretations have been given, both philosophical and allegorical. Other readers argue that the poem contains no deep meanings but is simply the marvelous beginning of a verse narrative, such as "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" or "Christabel." Still other readers feel that it is primarily descriptive. Our purpose in citing the poem is to illustrate artistic excellence, the sheer beauty of language in the creative hands of one of the great word masters. Whatever else "Kubla Khan" is, it is hauntingly beautiful poetry, "directionless melody" as one critic said, hovering over a dream landscape combining the extremes of beauty and terror. No matter which passage one examines, the wordhandling is flawless—a magic interweaving of alliteration, assonance, rhyme, onomatopoeia, shimmering imagery, varying rhythms—all the devices that in the hands of a master give to

ace. Mankind made plausible, his purpose plain. Enchanted in your air benign and shrewd. With limbs a-sprawl and empty faces pale, The spiteful and the stingy and the rude Sleep like the scullions in the fairty-tale. This moment is the best the world can give: The tranquil blossom on the tortured stem. Reject me not, sweet sounds! Oh, let me live, Till Doom espy my towers and scatter them, A city spell-bound under the aging sun. Music my rampart, and my only one. CONCLUSION The lesson printed here consists mostly of excerpts from Section 5 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, Section 5 contains "There Is a Garden in Her Face" (poem) by Thomas Campion; Sonnet 130 by Shakespeare; "Love Poem" by John Frederick Nims; "Moonrise" (poem) by Gerard Manley Hopkins; "To Autumn" (poetic ode) by John Keats; "Apology for Bad Dreams" (poem) by Robinson Jeffers; the text of "Kubla Khan" by Coleridge; "What Is Poetry?" (essay) by Gertrude Stein; "Ars Poetica" (poem) by Archibald MacLeish; an excerpt (discussing two of Turner's paintings) from Modern Painters by John Ruskin; "On the Grasshopper and Cricket" by John Keats and "Cargoes" by John Masefield, and fuller discussions of all of these than space permits here. The selections by Nims, Jeffers, Stein, MacLeish, Masefield, and Millay are still covered by copyright restrictions. All other selections may be reprinted as desired for teaching purposes. . We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY YY Xow eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antenini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 957 The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord Praise Be to Thee I! Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide December 1968 REMEMBERED SUMMER 'The summer mountains, Waterfalls, Splashing fountains In the rocky brook, Deep pools, sun-bright, The pines in tall Green silhouettes Against blue space Of infinite sky, The soft caress Of whispering wind, Bird song and flight— This loveliness Returns to mind, Evoked now by The single treasure Of a blue jay feather Marking my place In the winter book. —Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn BEAUTIFUL All Grain Stone Ground Flour Mill, @& For full Me I information, write * Dept. R. S. P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 BEST WISHES FOR A Hepes my Fraser of a.