VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1892.	NO. 16.


CONTENTS.

	Shakespeare's Birthplace—Marian Taylor. In
Rural England—A Story. Obedience Better
Than Sacrifice—L. L. G. R.  R. S., Y. L. M. I.
A. and P. A. Reports—Woodland—North Jordan.
—Utah. W. S. A. Reports. Do Something—Ex.
Death of a Heroine—L. W.
	EDITORIAL:—The Relief Society. Things in
General. Half a Century. Editorial Notes. An-
niversary Celebration, Woman's C. M. and M.
Institution—Gladys Woodmansee. An Able Ap-
peal.
	POETRY:—Called Home—L. M. Hewlings.
Loose The Bands—Emly H. Woodmansee: Re-
sponse—Hope. Violets—L. M. H. The Song of
the World—Carrie Renfrew.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	CALLED HOME.

	FANNY AND TALULA.

They have passed away like a gentle breath,
Their eyes are closed in the sleep of death,
In Spring and noon of womanhood,
Tender and loving, wise and good,
Ah! too good for the sinful earth,
Only the angels knew their worth,
So they called them home unto them,
Decking their brows with diadems.—
Better to smile when such true lives,
Are called home from earth's bitter strife,
Better to know their tasks are done,
Trials all ended, glory won.
Sad tears are vain when souls so bright,
Wing their way to the gates of light.—
Called away! but their sweet good will,
Like fragrant odor lingers still;
The tender lesson's mem'ry brings
Love's healing mantle o'er us flings,
We learn to follow paths they trod,
Be more like those, now gone to God.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.
[My heart was touched and moved to write, these lines
after reading the notice of those sisters departure from
earth-life in the last issue of the EXPONENT.]


LOOSE THE BANDS.

List! the song of exultation, (chronicled in sacred pages)
List! the Bards triumphal Anthem—singing through a
	thousand ages!
List, the joyful exhortation—full of promise, hope and
	trust—
"Loose Thy Bands, Oh captive daughters! lift thyself from
	out the dust,"
Loose the bands; Oh captive Daughters, captive Wives
	and captive Mothers;
Life yourselves, 'tis fatal folly, to entirely count on others;
Loose the bands, Oh captive Daughters—claim the privilege
	to be free:
Speed the day of Woman's Glory. Hail! approaching
	Liberty!
			CHORUS:
Loose the bands, Oh captive Daughters—claim the privi-
	lege to be free;
Speed the day of Woman's Glory. Hail! approaching
	Liberty!

Answer! Oh ye captive daughters, answer ev'ry thought-
	ful woman—
Wherefore are we kept in bondage, are we counted strictly
	human?
Born, like men, all free and equal— wherefore are we forced 
	to fight—
Wherefore are we forced to wrestle, for a natural needful
	Right?


In the sacred name of freedom, for the sake of simple
	justice—
With the common right of Suffrage, can't a mighty nation
	trust us?
Oh ye favor'd Sons of Freedom—be magnanimous and
	just;—
Need the "Weaker Vessel" always be compell'd to kiss
	the dust?
			CHORUS.
Apathy, pretends to patience—while conditions harsh and
	hoary—
While oppressive senseless Statutes, mar a nation's name
	and glory;
Antiquated, wrongful Edicts—must be speedily repeal'd;
Woman's Right, must be conceded, Serfdom must to
	Freedom yield;
Join the ranks—and raise the Banner of the Woman Suf-
	frage Army?
Never mind the shafts of envy, never mind the tempests
	stormy;
Liberty! is worth a struggle, worth the cost whate'er it
	be,
Can we ever overvalue, Nature's noblest Legacy?
			CHORUS.
Wiser grows the world—and faster—much is done, and 
	much endeavor'd,
All humanity, rejoices, that the Negro's bonds are sever'd.
Now, in the behalf of progress, as a crowning act of grace—
Let, Consistency, forever, free the Mothers of the Race;
Doubtless, Woman's "Legal Status" is a farce, and noth-
	ing better;
Yet, withal, some "Foolish Virgins" would not loose a
	single fetter;
Wrest from man, the Right of Suffrage—an indignant hosts
	you'd see;
Loose the bands! Oh captive daughters—Hail! approach-
	ing Liberty!
			CHORUS.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]

SHAKESPEARE'S BIRTHPLACE.

	Just as many a Californian allows the
foreigner to out-strip him in visiting the
glorious world-famed Yosemite Valley, so
there are numbers of Englishmen who have
never seen the birthplace of the immortal
Shakespeare, although it is a place of pil-
grimage to the many Americans who flock
annually to the Continent of Europe.
	Stratford on Avon, in the County of War-
wick, is situated in the very heart of England;
in the midst of scenery breathing peace and
contentment.
	The surrounding country is generally flat,
and might be considered tame but for the mag-
nigcent growth of trees which greet one on
every side, and which add a sylvan loveliness
to historical associations.
	The town itself is like many another in the
midland counties and has the same sleepy look
as though its people were quite content to re-
main a hundred years behind their neighbors
and in fact prefer jogging along at their own
easy-going rate to joining in the mad rush for
wealth that characterizes the large cities. Con-
sidering the world-wide fame of the Warwick-
shire poet, it is strange how comparatively
little is known of him with any certainty; this
much we know however that he was born
April 23, 1564, that he was in all probability
educated at the Grammer School, that when
very young he married Anne Hathaway, a
maiden of the neighboring village of Shottery,
a union which proved unhappy, that a few
years later he went to London in order to es-

[Column 2]

cape prosecution at the hands of Sir Thomas
Lucy,—on whose estate of Charlecote, Shake-
speare had been poaching, that in the Metro-
polis he won fame and fortune first as an
actor, then as a writer of plays; that in 1579 he
purchased a goodly sized house in his native
town, to which he subsequently retired, and
which proved the scene of his death in the year
1616. The houses of Stratford are substantially
built, and give one the idea that there is more
opulence than poverty amongst the towns-peo-
ple, a well-to-do air pervading the place. The
principal hotel is noticable as having all its
rooms named after the different Shakespearian
plays; thus the love sick swain may sweetly
dream in teh "Romeo and Juliet" room, and
the ambitious and secretly blood-thirsty ruffian
may take uneasy slumber in the room desig-
nated "Richard III." The house in which
Shakespeare was born is in Kenley St. and at
no great distance from the Great Western Rail-
way Station. Of it Washington Irving wrote
"It is a small, mean edifice of wood and plaster
a true resting place of genius which seems to
delight in hatching its offspring in by-corners."
This however does not describe the building at
the present time, for after having been fre-
quently half-ruined by repairs carelessly exe-
cuted, it has at length been restored to some
thing resembling its original condition, and its
appearance now tallies with the fact that the
poet's father was a man of some means in his
generation.
	The front door leads into a small kitchen,
in which there is a large old-fashioned English
fire-place, with the cosy ingle nook now out
of date. There are two other rooms on this
floor, but it was in a small room upstairs that
the great Shakespeare first saw the light of day
and thither we wend our way. The few pieces
of furniture call for no notice as they never be-
longed to the poet, but the walls scribbled over
with names remind us of the round chamber
in the Tower of London, that prison of William
Wallace where signatures of high and low are
seen side by side. Turning to the window we
see scratched on the glass the autograph of the
great Sir Walter Scott. The rest of the house
is used as a museum and amongst the curiosities
to be found there is a jug which belonged to
the poet, also a chair which he used at his
club; a gold signet ring bearing his initials;
some wood from the mulberry tree that he
planted in the garden of New Place, and the
juice of the fruit preserved in a small bottle.
	Leaving Shakespeare's house behind us we
enter High St., containing a rich collection of
old gabled houses, one of which bears the date
1596. A little further, and we come to New
Place where the poet died.
	Sad to say, nothing remains of the house
but some of the foundation stones, carefully
netted over with wire; the reason of this being
that a subsequent owner first cut down the
mulberry tree planted by Shakespeare, and
then a few years later razed the house to the
ground, because the rates were too high; a
piece of Vandalism which must cause the name
of Frances Gastrell to be execrated by all de-
votees at the shrine of genius.
	In the garden of New Place is a picturesque
ivy-covered well, at which, the cicerone informs
the traveler, every American stops to drink,
but whether to receive inspiration thereby, or
to slake his thirst is unkown.
	The Shakespeare Memorial next attracts
our attention by its somewhat too showy ex


terior which to a thinking mind seems out of
keeping with the great intellect of the man to
whose memory the monumental building has
been erected. It contains however a pretty
theatre, and sundry rooms devoted to different
branches of Shakespearian study, and from its
tower a fine view can be obtained.
	Last but not least of the gems of Stratford
is the Church with most beautiful avenues of
lime and elm partly hiding its gray walls from
view and which add a softened beauty to the
resting place of the great poet. It is in the
Chancel, within the communion table railing
that Shakespeare lies, and on the slab that re-
cords his name, is written in old English

	"Good frend, for Jesus sake forbeare
	To digge the dust encloased heare;
 	Bleste be ye man yt spares thes stones,
	And curst be he yt moves my bones."

	To the right of Shakespeare lies his wife
Anne Hathaway, and his favorite daughter
with her husband and child lie close by.
A walk of a mile brings the traveler to the
village of Shottery where the poet went a
wooing in youth's golden morning, and as we
tread the path across the fields which it is
said Shakespeare himself took many years ago
we cannot help thinking how fair this country
of England is, and presently when a rosy
cheeked lassie comes tripping along, we can-
not help adding, "and how fair its women are,"
for,

	With downcast eyes and look demure,
 	And yet withal so sweet and pure—
	A pleasant picture doth she make:
 	Enough for any man to stake
	His happiness upon.

But away with soliloquy, for here is the
picturesque though humble cottage which
marks the last leaf in the diary of a trip to
the land of Shakespeare. Again we look on
a small kitchen with ingle-nook, and then
mounting the rickety stairs are shown the
room in which Anne Hathaway was born and
a frame containing some of her needle-work.
After duly satisfying our eyes with the treas-
ures of the interior, we enter the old-fashioned
garden, that we may take a draught of water
from the well whence the lovers extracted
nectar long ago, and then we bid a reluctant
farewell to this the heart of Merry England.
			MARIAN TAYLOR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.
IX.

	In those times, the long ago, traveling was
vastly different to what it is nowadays, and
one who journeyed in "slow coaches" could suit
his convenience or his temper; if indeed his
coachman made no strenuous objection, and
Sir Edward Hilliard was Master, as well as
Baronet; it was seldom any one interfered with
his rights, or privileges, or even to speak in
self-defense if he became enraged. No woman
had ever been as self-possessed with him as his
niece Jane, and from her he appeared to ex-
pect the independence of manhood.
	The sturdy, well-fed horses and the old coach
jogged along through the country roads; both
the young ladies were totally absorbed with
their own peculiar thoughts and conditions;
Anna was desperately in love, and Jane knew
not what to think of the declaration so per-
emptorily made by the quiet Dr. to whom she
had gone with perfect confidence for advice in
the dilemma she found herself placed on her
cousin's account. To whom could she go now,
every avenue was closed. Her uncle was heart-
less and resentful; Lady Walton had only
softened him temporarily her presence had been
the magnet; and after meeting the boy, her son,

[Column 2]

he had been more hardened still. There were
many things to be considered, Jane felt as-
sured that young Walton would follow them
to Italy, and she would be at a loss to know how
to protect her cousin. If a man as old as Dr.
Bland and with the training his profession had
given him would show such impetuosity as he
had with her, who had never given him the
slightest reason to think she cared for him,
what might not this determined young lover
do, whom she realized had been given every
encouragement from her innocent and unsus-
pecting cousin. Jane almost regretted leav-
ing the life of toil and poverty that had seemed
her fate at her mother's death, to be thrown
unprepared as she found herself into a whirl
of untoward circumstances, without authority,
or previous experience in such affairs. Re-
luctantly she answered her cousin, who was the
the first to break the silence, though her con-
science reproached her when she remembered
how much more ignorant than her years was this
fair girl, because of her lack of discipline and
womanly companionship. Her own head ached
and Anna complained, and bemoaned the cruel
fate that was separating her from her beloved
Maitland, as she realized they were going farther
and farther away.
	The days dragged on drearily and the
Baronet grew more morose and sullen when
weary with his journey; the channel was rough
when they crossed to France, Anna was very
ill, and her maid was seasick too, and the
whole responsibility fell upon Jane. When
they reached the south of France the weather
was brighter, and the air purer, and the spirit
of at least one of the party grew more con-
tent.
	They were nearing their journey's end, and
there was something to look forward to, though
her uncle still scolded and swore vehemently
and sometimes declared he should die, and
blamed Anna for it all, and "that rascally son
of a rascally father." Patience and endurance
on the part of the uncomplaining niece and
the tears and sobs of his only daughter were
lost upon this irritable old man, who grew
more unbearable day by day.
	They reached Italy at last and found a suit-
able place to winter in, but almost as soon as
they were fairly housed, acquaintances of Sir
Edward's called and invitations to go here
and there poured in; the girls had no heart for
company and the Baronet was almost rude to
his old friends. But when the worst has come
and things get to a crisis a change is inevit-
able, and so it proved in this case. Sir Edward
was taken seriously ill, and Dr. Bland was
sent for, but meantime other physicians were
summoned who pronounced his condition criti-
cal. Jane was attentive and followed out as
near as possible the instructions of the Dr.
under whom she had previously nursed, but
no change for the better resulted; and worn
out with watching and anxiety she was ready
to sink with fatigue, when late one night, after
weeks of weary waiting Dr. Bland arrived;
then she felt that relief had come; the Baronet
had been delirious much of the time and
raved incoherently but now and then Jane un-
derstood it was of Helen he talked, and would
call her to come to him. Never of his wife
or his daughter, and she felt how utterly
barren his life had been, and how destitute
of love and a real home her beautiful cousin,
and her heart softened towards her greatly.
It was good for Jane Conway to have these
sympathetic feelings; she had known the fulness
of love in her early home, and it was some
compensation now to remember the sweetness
of it and it made her more compassionate
towards Anna.
	The Baronet grew worse, but Dr. Bland
succeeded in rallying his scattered senses
sufficiently to know him, and to ask him a
few questions to which he gave straight-

[Column 2]

forward answers; he however insisted on the
Dr's maintaining secrecy from the young
ladies, and wanted no interference from women
folks.
	Waiting in expectancy of death is at all
times a fearful thing, but these two women
far from home, were indeed forlorn, their
only hope for advice lay in Dr. Bland, and
Jane felt the greatest reluctance now to lean
upon him. She had not been willing to trust
herself to speak to him of ordinary matters,
their only conversation had been of her uncle.
Anna leaned wholly upon her more self-
reliant cousin, she would scarcely have been
aware of her father's serious condition had it
not been for the servants; they talked
incessantly of the expected yet dreaded crisis,
until sometimes she would be quite hysterical
and once or twice she had swooned away from
terror, so vividly would they picture the
harrowing scenes. It was a new experience
for her and she longed to hide herself away
from it all; she had written several times to
Maitland but no answer had come as yet and
her very life seemed desolate. Accustomed to
her father's indifference she did not seem to
think it strange that she was never sent for,
and Jane was so engrossed in her duties as
nurse that she seldom had time to think how
lonely her cousin must be, shut up in the
house with only the servants for companions.
The girls had both looked forward to some
gaiety when they were fairly settled and now
how changed was the programme. If Jane
had only spoken out to the Dr. things might
have been different, but her fears lest she
should hold out any encouragement to the Dr.
to speak seriously of his affection, restrained
her from asking help in the time of greatest
need.
	Finally the Dr. himself broke the ice, by
coming upon her suddenly one morning early
as she was out taking a little breath of fresh
air, of which she stood so much in need, with
her constant watching and anxiety, for she
was indispensable to her uncle, though he had
skillfully trained nurses to attend him.
	"At last" exclaimed Dr. Bland without
even a good morning "now you shall not escape
me until I have told you that I cannot go on
living without an answer from you, you should
pity me if nothing more, wearied with long
waiting for some one to love me!" So sudden
were these ejaculations uttered, that Jane had
only voice to say "merci!" But as she did so
Dr. Bland caught the expression of her eyes,
and his heart yearned toward her with an
indefinable feeling of pain, remembering how
utterly alone in the world was this cold and
"proper" young woman. Pale and troubled
she turned away without speaking more "and
you would leave me without another word,
stay, if only for one brief moment, speak to
me." She hesitated but stood like one
petrified, she could not even think so embarrass-
ing was the situation; just then a messenger
approached and mercifully for Jane the
painful interview was over. The servant had
been looking for them through the house,
"his master was worse, the nurse thought him
dying," and quickly the Dr. strode up the
walk and the stairway to the room, where lay
the sufferer; Jane could not summon courage
to enter her uncle's apartments with him after
what had transpired, and yet she knew her
duty lay in that direction; how difficult now
seemed the path of duty, and yet she had
insisted upon others being firm and brave
under all circumstances; how poor her judg-
ment seemed when she was the one interested
but there was no time for brooding, Anna
caught hold of her and like one in despair
begged her to go with her she could not go
alone. Mechanically like one in a dream she
followed her cousin, but when they reached
the doorway, they knew by the look upon the


faces of those around that it was over. A
moment gazing on the bed and both turned to
go, the Dr. came forward and said, 'come in
he is quiet now, no more raving, no more pain
he has gone into the great unknown, he lead
Lady Anna almost stunned as she was and
her cousin walked by her side with the same
stately bearing as ever. No more was said,
the attendants were preparing to close the
doors Miss Conway took her cousin by the
arm and whispered "let us go," and together
they left the chamber of death. The orphaned
girl did not realize her position, she was
thinking less of the dead than the living, she
had scarcely known her father, and could not
be expected to grieve now; it was however a
peculiar experience for them both, and Jane
went over in her mind the list of relatives
who must be notified and what would be
expected of her; she needed sleep and rest,
and while she waited her thoughts flew far
away to her dear old England, and the old
tumbling down house and she wondered were
they to return there or what was to be their
fate?
	We will not dwell upon the harrowing
details of the time that hung so heavily on
the hands of Lady Anna and Miss Conway;
but Maitland Walton found them not know-
ing what had happened and his presence
consoled Anna in her days of mourning;
Jane began to feel that she had been too
mistrustful now that she knew him better;
and it was a relief to her that he could amuse
and entertain her cousin, while she was
engaged upon more important matters. Sir
Edward's solicitor had come over and though
the will was not yet made public, she had
been made aware of some of its contents, and
had been asured she was not left penniless.
The Dr. almost wished she had been, then he
might have hoped she would one day sit
beside his hearthstone, and make the sunlight
of his dreary house. But he felt he would
wait and see whether independent as she
seemed, she would not yet need him.
	After Sir Edward had been laid in the
tomb at Ravenna, and it became necessary
for Mr. Burke the solicitor and Dr. Bland to
return to England, they were anxious to know
if the young ladies wished to go or to remain
until the winter was over; they talked over
the matter and finally decided that it was
Burke's place to speak as he had still charge
of the Baronet's affairs, and their interests.
	Mr Burke felt some delicacy in approach-
ing the subject, and suggested that Mr. Walton
pave the way, to which Dr. Bland assented
willingly. It proved easy for the young man;
and so matters were soon arranged and the
journey undertaken, the only drawback being
that Maitland must not travel with them.
Miss Conway could not be persuaded to consent
to that. The young ladies were in deep
mourning dress,though there was little mourn-
ing in their hearts, and the journey was per-
formed with outany notable incident.
	The coming home however was more
embarrasing; the servants were demonstrative
and the whole place in confusion; all the
establishment seemed to think it their
imperative duty to make a display of their
bereavement and to vie with each other in its
positive expression.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESPONSE.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	
	Your token of friendship has come safe to me
		O'er mountain and desert and plain,
	And the wish that you sent me, I breathe back to thee,
		For it calls up sweet memories again.

	This delicate spray in the corner so fair
		How like the sweet flowers of the heart,


Which if we would save we must garner with care
	And shield from the tempest's cold dart.

A "happy new year" ah, can happiness be,
	While Zion in fetters is bound,
While Satan still reigns on land and on sea,
	And sorrow is everywhere found?

Yet still we will sing a "Happy New Year,"
	For Hope springs afresh in each breast,
So faith all undying dispels every fear,
	And whispers the day dawn of rest.
				With love yours,
					HOPE.
Juarez, Jan 29, 1892.


VIOLETS.

Beautiful Violets! precious and rare,
	Emblems of hope, inspiration of soul;
What joy ye have brought, now banishing care,
	Infusing sunshine and gladness untold.
An angel of mercy sent thee to cheer,—
	To lift up sad hearts this gloomy March morn,
While held in despondence, doubting and fear,
	Worn, weary, wasted, courage near gone.
Loving kindness alone inpelled the thought,
	To convey such beauty fragrance and bloom,
Soothing, enchanting tried spirits o'erwrought,
	Refreshing, and cheering—displacing gloom.
Breath of Elysium prevades the air,
	Fulfillment of promise springtime enfolds
Dainty in loveliness, perfect and fair,
	With never a taint or touch of earth's mold.
Grown out from a bed of darkness and cold,
	Resplendent in colors of varied hue,
Sunbeams of summer, ne'er paint richer gold,
	Green, red and white, royal purple and blue.
We will hold ever in memory's urn,
	Giver and gift, stamped in love and enwreathed,
Fresh green and pure as the day shall return,
	Fragrant with perfume, in blossom and leaf.
			L. M. H.
	Beautiful English Violets sent to the chamber of the
sick on a dreary March morning. By. Mrs. John Sears
1879


THE SONG OF THE WORLD.

	Love, love, love!
Pleads the child heart hungering
For its heritage of heaven;
For its dower of holy leaven
From the All-Compassioning.
	Gently calling,
	Softly falling,
Love, the song the Angels sing.

	Love, love, love!
Beats the hopeful heart of youth,
Thrilling to that vital current
Of divinity inherent,
From the Fountain-head of Truth.
	Though the morrow
	Sob in sorrow,
Love, may speak the trouble smooth.

	Love, love, love!
Throbs life's whispered noontide prayer,
From the lives of toil it rises,
Through the mother's sacrifices,
Through the father's selfless care.
	Ah! to live it!
	Thus to give it!
Is to feel God everywhere.

	Love, love, love!
Sigh the old in underbreath,
'Tis the smile of the immortal
That makes warm the silent portal,
And 'tis all the silence hath.
	While life's gladness
	And its sadness
Slip away to darkling death.

	Love, love, love!
Is the hushed, the smothered cry
Of the world; through evil stealing,
Through the pain and wrong revealing
Man's redemption drawing nigh.


Naught can still it,
	Naught can kill it,
Love of love can never die.
			CARRIE RENFREW.
The Woman's Tribune.


OBEDIENCE BETTER THAN
SACRIFICE.

	"Pastry and Poetry," said grandma smil-
ing upon me, as, at the sound of her bell, I
entered her room and placed upon her table
the desert with which she was to finish her
dinner. "Sit down a moment," she continued.
"I shall not detain you; but that last paint-
ing of Leigh's has made such an impression
upon me, I want to tell you of a circumstance
which it brings forcibly to my memory. The
locks, the water and the ship, Leigh has put
into that picture, represent perfectly, as I
remember it, a scene off the shore of the
Bristol Channel, which I witnessed, one
afternoon, many years ago.
	"There was a beautiful young woman who,
having heard the Gospel taught by the Elders
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, had believed, and applied for baptism.
One of the Elders baptized her and she at
once began making preparations to emigrate
to Utah. On the morning of the day which
Leigh's picture brings so vividly to my
recollection, I found the young woman in
tears and deeply distressed. Sympathetic
inquiries elicited the following sad facts.
	"Four or five years before, her love had
been sought and won by a gentleman of
wealth and high birth; he betrayed and
deserted her. There was a child, a lovely
little girl. The young mother had made up
her mind to take her little one to its father,
and there leave it for him and his relatives to
rear and educate, as they were rich while she
was poor. This she looked upon as being a
terrible sacrifice which she was making for
the Gospel's sake. So it would have been in
one sense. The thought of thus separating
herself from her one and only darling was
breaking her heart; but this was not all. The
Elders had counseled her not to take the step
she was contemplating. They advised her to
keep her child and take it with her to Zion
where it would be taught the way of life and
salvation, promising her it should be a bless-
ing and not a trouble to her. But she had
determined to do otherwise, and hard as it
seemed to consummate the plan, she could not
be persuaded to relinquish it. "She therefore
went aboard the ship, with her little girl, to
make the short run across the channel, and go
to the place where the father resided.
	"What was our dismay at seeing the ship,
when just out of reach of help from the land,
spin 'round and 'round, as if in a gigantic
whirlpool, and then dive down as if swallowed
up in a mighty chasm. Both mother and
child were drowned, with several other
passengers.
	"That was to me,a lasting and very sorrowful
lesson. It caused me to consider how dangerous
a thing it is for any of us to act in opposition
to the counsel of men who have been ordained
of God to lead His people, or any portion of
them; for their words should be to us such
words as will lead unto life and light; and to
disregard them, is liable to lead us unto dark-
ness and death.
	"Our young people should be especially
taught in regard to this matter. It isn't that
one member of the Church is better than
another, but we should honor the authority
which God places upon men and women, and
remember always his admonitions concerning
obedience."
			L. L. G. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
  
SALT LAKE CITY,	March 1, 1892.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

PROGRAMME OF EXERCISES.

	[The general Jubilee meeting will be held in the
Assembly Hall or Large Tabernacle in Salt Lake
City, commencing at 10 a. m., Thursday, March
17, 1892, it being fifty years since the first organi-
zation, March 17, 1842.]
	Singing by the Tabernacle Choir, Prof. E.
Stephens, Musical Director—The Grand Invoca-
tion, by Eliza R. Snow, "O My Father, thou that
dwellest."
	Prayer by President Angus M. Cannon.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation, ye saints of
the Lord."
	Opening Address, President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young.
	Reading, The Revelation to Emma Smith, Mrs.
Zina Y. W. Card.
	Reading of Sketch of the Relief Society, pre-
pared for the occasion.
	Singing by the Choir, Original Song by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, "The Daughters of Zion!
The Friends of the Poor."
	After which, Addresses will be made by the
First Presidency, (Providence permitting.)
	Addresses by Counselors, Mrs. Jane S. Rich-
ards and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	Addresses by the Apostles.
	Speech by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary,
and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer.
	Sentiments, The Relief Society, and The Wo-
men of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y.
	Anthem, "Daughter of Zion? Awake From Thy
Sadness."
			Prayer at High Noon,
		By One of the First Presidency.


THINGS IN GENERAL.

	The Territorial Legislature are hard at work
trying to dispatch what business is pending, and
Committees are making good use of their time in
discussing the various subjects and preparing
their reports the House and the Council. The
puzzling question seems to be how to apportion
means, and more important still perhaps how to
get the means to appropriate. The members are
anxious to act according to the wishes of their
constituency, and to fully consider also the
financial welfare of the Territory. There are
many laudable institutions in this young Territory
that need fostering, strenghtening and building up.
Reformatory and educational enterprises should
not be neglected, and yet the future of Utah
should be well considered and such steps taken as
will further the progress, develop the growth, and
ensure permanent enterprises as will
	The Columbian Exposition will afford an open-


ing for world-wide representation, such as never
has been known in the history of this continent.
The great and growing West with its boundless
possibilities is still comparatively unknown in the
Eastern world. The World’s Fair of 1893 will
give such grand opportunities for celebrity as
as have never before been accessible. To let it
pass without an extra effort on the part of the
men and women of this region of country to make
a creditable showing would be a grievous mistake
and one that could never be remedied. Utah is
positively coming to the front in the van of
States, and the resources within her borders
hold out splendid inducements for men of means,
of skill and ingenuity to make available her native
products.
	
	The bills now before the Congress of the
United States asking for statehood and home-rule
are receiving considerable attention, and are
bringing the condition of the Territory, its
material interests, its social and general history
to the understanding of a greater number of peo-
ple than heretofore; partly through newspaper
comments, and if those are not always just and
true they cause people to inquire, and that gen-
erally results in the dissemination of more cor-
rect information.
			
The amnesty bill seems the most likely to re-
ceive favorable notice and the popular vote. One
would think that the people who had submitted
to the enforcement of adverse legislation, and
without a murmur or any sign of hostility, ac-
knowledged their willingness to abide by the de-
cisions of the courts were entitled to some con-
sideration, when they had not infringed upon the
statutes made specially for them.


HALF A CENTURY.
The Relief Society Jubilee which will be cele-
brated March 17, 1892, is now near at hand.
Letters are coming in from various quarters, and
also verbal communications asking if there is any
special instructions in reference to what shall be
done on that day. The Presidency of the Relief
Society in the Circular issued, gave a general out-
line of what would be expected and left the de-
tails to those who preside in the several wards
and localities, to act according to circumstances
and surroundings and be guided by the sug-
gestions of the spirit to them. It would be
agreeable to the President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young if in each place where there is a celebra-
tion, in the order of their exercises the beautiful
hymn “O, my Father thou that dwellest” by Eliza
R. Snow should be included.
	The sketches of the Relief Society that are
prepared should be historical, and correct in de-
tailing such facts as are used, as it is anticipated
that all these will be collected or called in, and
compiled, or such matter collated from them, as
will form a complete history of the Relief Society
in all its branches and in all lands. There should
be two copies made by each Society that one
may be preserved by the Society and placed in
its record and the other one forwarded to the
Central Board, when it shall be called for.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
will be held in the Fourteenth ward assembly
rooms on Friday, March 11, 1892. Meetings will
begin at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, is desirous that
each branch in the Stake should be represented
by one or more of the respective officers, as there
will likely be business of importance to present,
and special advice given relating to the Relief
Society Jubilee that is to be celebrated on the

[Column 2]
17th of March, wherever there is an organization
of this society in all lands, it being fifty years
since the first society was organized by President
Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Ill., March 17, 1842.

	On Feb. 10, a few ladies met by invitation
at the residence of Sister Julia C. Howe and en-
joyed a pleasant afternoon and evening in social
converse, a delicious dinner was elegantly served
in the most hospitable manner. Mrs. Howe is a
charming hostess, and understands how to delight
her guests, her house has been a favorite resort
for years past, though one by one several of those
who were wont to gather there have gone behind
the vail. We miss their genial faces when we
come together on these occasions, but we know
our loss is their gain, and it teaches the lesson of
appreciation to those who remain. Sister Howe
makes her guests feel so much at ease, that they
are loth to say good night when the hour of part-
ing comes.

	The Relief Society of the Seventh Ward held
its annual meeting Wednesday Feb. 17, Mrs M.
A. Lambert presiding. Bishop Wm. Thorne and
his Counselor Wm. McLachlin were present also
a goodly number of the Society. Visitors present
were Pres. M. I. Horne, and her Counselor E. S.
Taylor, also E. B. Wells. The report of the
Society was very creditable, and showed that the
President and her board had been active and
efficient in their management. Pres. Horne and
the other visiting ladies each addressed the meet-
ing in turn and Pres. Lambert also spoke a short
time. The subjects treated upon were the general
and active work of the sisters organizations, their
advancement in knowledge and intelligence; the
necessity of bringing the younger women forward
in the ranks, the mother’s great responsibility, the
mission of women in the home and in society,
the saving of grain, the coming Jubilee, etc.
After the meeting was dismissed the Society and
Bishop repaired to the R. S. hall in the building
where a sumptuous repast was served to all.
In the evening there was a party in honor of
Sister Annie Dinwoody who was about to leave
the ward having built a new house in another part
of the City. 
	On the 19th of February the ladies of the 19th
ward met in the lower hall of the new meeting
house, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells in the chair, the ob-
ject of the meeting being to diffuse information
and to increase an interest in the subject of equal
political rights and privileges. Mrs. Edwardas cted
as secretary. The meeting opened with singing
from the Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book
and prayer was offered by Mrs. Ann E. Neal.
Dr. Elvira S. Barney read some suffrage notes by
great men and women and commented upon
them in an original manner. Mrs. Sarah Howard
Pres. of a branch of the W. S. A. at South Bounti-
ful, made a short speech, also Mrs. A. J Croche-
ron well known as a literary writer and an in-
telligent advocate for woman’s advancement, Mrs.
E. B. Wells made some explanations and gave
some of the reasons why women should vote and
be eligible to office, substantiating the assertions
made by facts that were apparent in the ordinary
life and sphere of humanity. Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker made quite a telling speech though it
was her first effort on that subject. Mrs. Rawlings
and some others added a few words also the
Chairman. Altogether the meeting was an in-
teresting one and will no doubt be productive of
good.

	There was a reunion of the brethren sisters and
friends in the 13th ward on Thursday evening,
Feb. 18, at the ward meeting house. Bishop N.
A. Empey in charge with a full-fledged supper
Committee and a programme. Heber S. Goddard
took charge of the programme, announced the
exercises in their order, while the Bishop attended


to receiving and welcoming his guests among
whom were many old residents of the ward in the
days of other Bishops; the house was well filled.
After singing and prayer, there was a musical exer-
cise by the Platte brothers on the guitar and
mandolin, finely given and followed by Elder
George Goddard who gave a sketch of the life of
Bishop Edward Hunter in his characteristic style,
first Bishop of the 13th ward and afterwards pre-
siding Bishop of the Church, relating facts and
portraying incidents in a manner true and telling.
Next followed a brief summary ef the life and
labors of Bishop Edwin D. Woolley who suc-
ceeded Bishop Hunter and presided in the ward
30 years, by George Woolley his youngest
son and now Counselor to Bishop Empey.
Bishop Millen Atwood’s son gave a short history
of his father’s life, labors and mission as an Elder
and Bishop, and these exercises were followed by
singing by a selected choir, and Heber S. Goddard
favored the company with the song entitled, “The
heart bowed down—” which was the gem of the
evening. Delicious refreshments were served to
all in the house by the Relief Society, assisted by
the young ladies of the ward. After the interval
of eating and social conversation, the party was
addressed by President Angus M. Cannon, Zina
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells.
Brother Geo. Goddard gave one of his old-time
songs the audience joining in the chorus, and the
party was dismissed with prayer by Elder A. M.
Musser.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION
	OF 
SUSAN B. ANTHONY’S BIRTHDAY.

Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball the President of the N.
A. W. S. A. of Utah Ter. called a meeting of the
officers of the Association and took preliminary
steps towards celebrating in a characteristic
manner the anniversary of Miss Susan B.
Anthony’s birthday in Entertainment Hall in the
15th Ward of this City.
The hall was handsomely decorated and a very
elegant banner hung over the speaker’s desk with
the motto in embossed letters “Taxation Without
Representation is Tyranny,” on one side the
picture of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and on the
other Susan B. Anthony, flowers and flags in pro-
fusion, the lone star of Wyoming occupying a
conspicuous place, and over all waved the
national stars and stripes. Mrs.Emily S. Richards
acted as mistress of ceremonies, relieving Mrs.
Kimball from the care to occupy the seat of honor.
The exercises opened with the song “Help the
working women,” from the “Utah Woman Suf-
frage Song Book.” Invocation by Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard. Song, “Equal Rights.” 
The opening address was by the President,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and was in her usual
original style, making some strong points in re-
gard to woman’s position, in a style peculiarly
her own, Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze gave a telling
sketch of the life of Susan B. Anthony, National
President of the N. A. W. S. A. Reading“Only a
Girl” by Mrs. C. Louise Boyden an accomplished
elocutionist. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a sketch of
“Woman’s Work” or “What Some Women Have
Done,” mentioning Zenobia’ Hypatia, Aspasia,
Martia, and at a later time Elizabeth of England,
Joan of Arc, Isabella of Castile, Maria Theresa, 
Catharine of Russia, Margaret of Austria, and
the good and great Queen Victoria of our own
time.
Recitation, “The Brave Ones at Home,” Mrs.
Elizabeth Mc’Farlane. A poem by Mrs. Emily
H. Woodmansee was read by Mrs. Nellie Cole-
brook Taylor, followed by a song by Thomas
Ashworth “As I sat upon my dear old Mother’s
knee.”
Short speeches were made by Pres. Joseph F.

[Column 2]
Smith, Pres. Angus M Cannon, Hon. Wm. Seeg
miller, member of Ter. Legislature, Hon. Wm. H.
King, Pres. of the Council, the gentlemen all
spoke of woman’s influence and their high appre-
ciation of womanliness and motherhood express-
ing the wish that women might be privileged in the
near future to enjoy equal political rights with
men, referring to the time when the women of
this Territory voted and the manner in which they
lost the franchise; after which the refreshment
Committee announced supper, and all repaired to
the lower hall where an elegant repast was spread
and the guests were waited upon by pretty young
girls in caps with yellow ribbons and white
aprons with rosettes of the same “suffrage” color.
The members of the Association all  wore their 
badges and bows of yellow ribbon and the spoons
and cutlery used were also tied with a knot of
dainty yellow ribbon. The tables were decorated
with ivy and smilax in a tasteful manner. After
supper there was music and social conversation,
and a recitation by President Joseph E. Taylor,
upon woman and her mission on this earth, com-
posed many years ago and written in a lady’s
album, by the late President of the Church Elder
John Taylor. A song by Mrs. Maggie Hull was
sweetly sung, “Edinboro Toon” with the true
Scotch accent and her beautiful and melodious
voice touched the hearts of all.
Benediction was pronounced by Counselor N.
V. Jones.
During the early part of the evening the Presi-
dent received the following telegram  from Miss
Anthony in answer to an invitation or ticket for
the party sent to her at Rochester.
	Rochester, N. Y., Feb. 15, ’92.
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Entertainment Hall 15th Ward.
Greetings dear friends that our Citizens Right
to vote may soon be secured is the prayer of your
Co-worker.
	Susan B. Anthony.

SENTIMENT.
Dear Susan, we appreciate her past labors for
the uplifting of womankind, we love her as a
sister and friend. May she live until the political
shackles are stricken from her sister woman.
This Sentiment I wished to express, or to have
expressed but no opportunity presented. 
S. M. K.


WOMAN’S C. M. & M. INSTITUTION.
	Minutes of an annual meeting of  the stock-
holders of the W. C. M. and M. Institution held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Feb. 13th 1893,
after the regular Ladies semi-monthly meeting.
	Prayer was offered by Pres. M. I. Horne. The
minutes of the previous, or semi annual, meeting
were read and accepted, after which Pres. Horne
spoke of the necessary absence of some of the
officers of the Institution which she very much re-
gretted, but we must proceed with the business of
our meeting.
	The secretary then read a financial report of the
busines for six months, or up to Feb. 1st, 1892.
Pres. M. I. Horne spoke of the discouragement
with which we have had to meet through the non-
patronage of the stock-holders, and the sisters in
general.  Referred to the faithful labors of the
officers and their desire to promote the welfare of
the enterprise.  Exhorted the sisters to patronize
the institution; she felt proud of the result con-
sidering the state of business generally.
	The resignations of the Treasure, E. H. Wood-
mansee, and the Secretary Gladys Woodmansee
were then read. Pres. M. I. Horne moved that the
resignations be accepted as the retiring officers
had other urgent duties pressing upon them,
though she regretted that they were not able to


still hold those positions, the motion was seconded
and put to vote. Vice Pres. M.Y. Dougall moved
that a vote of thanks be extended to the retiring 
officers, for their efficient service. The motion
was seconded put to vote and carried.
Mrs. E. H. Woodmansee spoke in praise of the
officers of the Institution and encouragingly of
the business, urged the sisters to come and take
more stock.
	The following Board of Directors were then
voted in.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne, M. Y. Dougall, M. W. Wil-
cox, C. C. R. Wells, Carrie S. Thomas, Matilda
P. Spencer, Z. D. H. Young, E. H. Woodmansee.
From which the following officers were chosen,
Pres., M. I. Horne, Vice Pres. M. Y. Dougall,
Treasurer, Mrs. Carrie Thomas.
	Mrs. Minnie James was voted in as Secretary.
Meeting adjourned until the 15th of Aug. or the
Saturday nearest to that date.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Sec.


AN ABLE APPEAL.
	[To the World’s Fair Committee of the Utah
Legislature.]
	Tuesday morning Feb. 16, there was a meeting
of the legislative joint committee and the ladies’
committee on the World’s Fair, at the Knutsford
Hotel, the object being to discuss Utah’s need of
an appropriation for the Columbian Exposition.
Hon. Joseph Morrell presided.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury read the following
paper in support of the appropriation of the sum
of $100,000:
	“The board of lady managers of the World’s
Columbian commission desire to develop to the
fullest extent the grand possibilities that have
been placed in their hands by the united action of
Congress, the management of the exposition and
the authorities of the various States and Terri-
tories.
	In behalf of the women of Utah we have the
pleasure to state that thousands of petitioners
from the several counties have sent their appeals
to the Legislature of Utah, now in session, for an
appropriation of $100,000 to properly represent
our Territory at the World’s Fair in Chicago. We
beg to supplement their petitions by our earnest
request that your honorable committee will ap-
prove and recommend such liberal appropriation
of money for this object as will be commensurate
with the dignity, richness, magnitude, productive-
ness and moneyed capabilities of Utah. The wo-
men of Utah are engaged in branches of industry
and we wish to make the best possible showing of
their achievements in every line of labor, educa-
tional, artistic, literary, benevolent, economic. It
is important that we show the bread-winners, who
are fighting unaided the battle of life, the wider
opportunities awaiting them, and what training
will best enable them to seize those opportunities
and make their work of the greatest value not
only to themselves, but to the world. In order to
accomplish these aims in Utah, it will be neces-
sary to thoroughly organize every county so that
a systematic canvass may be made as to the con-
dition of industrial women, their productions and
earnings, whether in the studio, counting house,
schoolroom, factory, mill, dairy, or the farm.
	From the information we have gathered on
these subjects we feel encouraged to assure you
that the women of Utah will meet their sisters of
the different States and Territories in a manner
highly creditable to the energy, intelligence and
talent which characterize the women of the West.
Of the women of Utah there are twelve who have
published one or more books, and several books
are now in preparation, and two newpapers are
published by women. The Salt Lake Tribune,
Herald, the Standard, of Ogden, employ women


writers. We have many excellent musicians, a
few artists in oil paintings, water colors, etc.
Some talented women are now studying abroad. 
Exquisite work is done in China painting,crayon,
beautiful laces, fine needle etc. Silk culture, 
which has been quite an industry in this Territory,
deserves to be encouraged and developed. There
are lawyers and physicians, also, thoroughly edu-
cated women teachers in the public and denomi-
national schools; also in many charitable institu-
tions. In printing offices and bookbinderies large
numbers of women are employed. Women are
also engaged in dairy work. We would add  that
women pay a fair proportion of the taxes. In
consideration of the earnest work being done in
all these branches by women, we again urgently
rqeuest that the legislatnre will generously enable
Utah to make a creditable exhibit of her wond-
rous products and industries at the World’s Fair
in 1893.
	Respectfully,
	MARGARET B. SALISBURY,
	ALICE J. WHALEN,
	Lady Managers for Utah.
	The ladies of the Committee present with Mrs.
Salisbury were Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, Mrs. Judge
Bennett, Mrs. C. W. Lyman, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. E. S. Richards, .Mrs. G. H. Young, Mrs. M.
B. Cannon.
	Mrs. Wells answered some pertinent questions
propounded by the Legislature and Mrs. Richards
made a short speech in which she stated it was
the first opportunity given to women by the  gov-
ernment to make a representation and she felt
Utah had been sufficiently misrepresented, &c.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
	REPORTS.
	WOODLAND.
	On account of the removal of the President
of the Relief Society to Mexico, the Relief
Society of Woodland ward was reorganized on 
Sunday Oct. 25, Stake President, Sister Emma 
Brown being present. The following officers
were unanimously sustained, Emma S. Webb
as President, Jane Van Tassel and Lois Ben-
son Counselors, Lois Benson Secretary, Mary
Ann Moon Treasurer.
						LOIS BENSON, Sec.
			NORTH JORDAN. 
A meeting was held at North Jordan ward
Jan. 12, 1892, for the purpose of reorganizing
the Relief Society. Bishop Heber Bennion
and Counselors met with the sisters, when the
necessary changes were made. Sister Eliza
Spencer (on account of advanced age) not feel-
ing able to attend to her duties was honorably
released. Sister Elizabeth Pixton was chosen
President, and a unanimous vote was taken to
sustain her, with Mary P. Bennion and Mary
A. Webster as Counselors. Sister E. A.
Bennion was released from the duties of Secre-
tary and A. J. Harker was chosen to fill the
vacancy.
	On account of the severe weather our meet-
ings are held monthly. The ward being in a
scattered condition, some members do not at-
tend regularly but a very good spirit is made
manifest, each and all present speak of the
goodness of God, and of the truth of the Lat-
ter-day work.
						ALICE J. HARKER, Sec,

			UTAH STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of Utah Stake
was held in the Meeting House, Provo City,
Nov. 27th 1891. Sister Mary John presiding
with her counselors. President Zina D. H.
Young also present with us.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer

[column 2]

The minutes of the former Conference were
read and approved. 
The President was the first speaker, felt
thankful and was glad to see so many out
would like to hear the Presidents of the
branches report after which we would hear
from Sister Young whom we felt it a great
privilege to have with us to-day. A number
of Presidents reported as having faithful and
energetic workers ready and willing to respond
to every call to help the poor and comfort the
mourner etc.
	Sister Young was pleased to hear the
testimonies that had been borne; there were
many sermons in them. The Lord knows
our hearts, we can be his jewels if we try:
sisters do not doubt this work, we will come
off victorious if we are faithful I thank God for
this society. Sisters meet together often;
comfort one another pray with and for each
other, the Lord will hear our prayers and
answer them too. Mothers watch over your
children; know where they are at night; try to
keep them from imbibing bad habits; use
your influence to get them to attend the
Associations organized for their benefit and
profit. I feel as though the Spirit of our
beloved Sister Ma Smoot was with us; sisters
let us be faithful.
	Counselor Marilla Daniels said it had been
a feast of good things,we must love one another
and strive to keep the commandments of God,
and serve Him with all our hearts. We
must look after our children and raise them in
the knowledge of God that they may be
faithful after we are gone etc.
	Sister Young gave some counsel in regard to
questions asked, spoke a short time on various
subjects; spoke of the high calling of the
teachers and the mission of mercy and love
they were called upon to perform. Comfort-
ing the sick and those that were bowed down
with grief carrying the bread of life to them.
Bro. Brigham said we had no conception of the
magnitude that this Society would attain to.
Sisters do not neglect your meetings the time
will come when many will mourn that they
have neglected these opportunities after sing-
ing and prayer conference adjourned till 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 p. m. with
the usual exercises. Part of the time was
taken up with hearing reports from different
parts of the county and as in other branches
they reported diligence in labors and willing-
ness to contribute to the poor that none might
suffer, many strong testimonies were borne to
the truth of this work.
	Counselor Emily G. Cluff spoke of adorn-
ing the minds of our children instead of
spending our time in dressing them so
elaborately etc.
	Sister Young made some additional remarks 
this afternoon. The sisters are gaining and
growing in the knowledge of the Gospel, let
us try to improve by being better wives and
mothers, teach your daughters to pray and all
your children, that they may have faith in
God, be kind and charitable, when we have the
Spirit of the Lord with us we do not feel to
hurt any one’s feelings, there are links that
bind us nearer than kin; let us be strong in
the Lord, my heart is full of blessings for you
my sisters and I ask God to bless you. Amen.
	Bro, C. D. Evans spoke a short time on the
evils of intemperance and exhorted every
mother to use her influence against it. Spoke
also of the great enticements of the Mining
Camps in drawing our young men away from
home, and they soon lose their reverence for
everything sacred or holy.
	Sister Till spoke upon silk culture, they had
on hand considerable silk ready to weave
when they had an opportunity. 
Sister Young had never lost interest in the

[column 3]

silk question. Pres. Young had said the
elements were full of silk etc. Sister John
spoke on the principle of faith, knew the
Lord could save the sick if we ask in faith,
and let us pray for strength to sustain us day
by day. After singing and prayer Conference
adjourned for three months. Benediction by
Rather Groves,
	Caroline Daniels, Sec’y.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE COUNTY. 
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, Feb. 16, 1892. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard in the chair. Opened by sing-
ing from the Suffrage Song Book "O come,
come away." Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
Roll called. After which 14 new members
were voted in; as no programme had been
prepared Pres. Howard said she would be
pleased to hear from the ladies present.
Dr. E. S. Barney read a sketch,—Some of
the reasons why it is necessary for women to
be interested in obtaining the power of the
ballot.
	Elizabeth McFarlane said she would be
pleased to see our young ladies come out and
educate themselves to hold the positions that
await them; experience gives us education.
Women are the peacemakers of the world,
they have fought many bloodless wars. Spoke
of the work accomplished by the great women
in India in settling the slave question; and the
blood that might have been spared had our
own Government accepted the advice of our
women. It has been estimated that had the
bodies of men killed in the late war been put
into coffins and placed end to end they
would have made a complete band around the
world. Spoke of the steps being taken by our
women to prevent war with Chili, and related
other interesting instances of history on the
same subject.
	Miss Louie Poulten favored us with a song
which was beautifully rendered; and for which
she received a hearty vote of thanks.
	M. Isabella Horne said, I desire all to under-
stand I am in favor of the elevation of woman.
Since the death of our Savior men have
oppressed women more and more and tried to
keep them in ignorance. We can see how
rapidly she advances when she is allowed some-
thing of the same opportunities and privileges
as men. Spoke of the honor shown to women
of the Scriptures; women have more real
courage, as strong minds and intellects as their
brothers. A gentleman once told her that God
made man first, "I answered, yes but He im-
proved very much in his second manufacture.
I was invited to attend a debate on this subject
by a party of young men and women, the argu-
ments were very interesting." Also referred
to an article in our last EXPONENT.
	Vice Pres. Louise K. Spencer made a few
pleasing and encouraging remarks.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, "I hope you will
steadily increase in numbers and intelligence;
let us continually bear in mind that we have
duties to others as well as ourselves, if we have
all the rights we care, for there are many who
have not.
	Elizabeth Price made some remarks in re-
gard to the suffrage entertainment of the pre-
vious evening.
	Vice Pres. Phebe C. Young, "I think suf-
frage ladies should be minute women and al-
ways prepared to say or do something when
called on," related in a very interesting man-
ner a sketch of the life of Empress Josephine.
	Emma Finch 20th, and Julia Ridges 22nd
wards, were appointed to act as agents of the
suffrage society in their own wards.
	Pres. Howard, had been greatly pleased


[Column 1]

with the exercises of the day and with the en-
tertainment on the previous evening. "The
other day in looking over one of my old
journals, it was recalled to my mind that I had
the privilege of dining with Acting Governor
Mann on the day he had signed the bill grant-
ing suffrage to the women of Utah; when he
told me he had done so, I arose to my feet and
in my feeble way thanked him in the name of
the women of Utah for having done so.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in March at the same hour and place.
			M. A. CAINE, Ass't. Sec.

WEBER COUNTY.
	The Woman Suffrage Association held its
regular meeting in the Third Ward Assembly
Hall, Ogden Feb 11th 1891. A suitable prayer
was offered by the Hon. F. D. Richards, previous
minutes read and approved.
	Pres. E. Y. Stanford stated that as this was
our annual meeting for the election of officers
she would briefly report the labors and doings
of the association the past year. Regular
meetings had been held which were usually
well attended. Able and interesting addresses
had been delivered by ladies as well as gentle-
men, and she believed that a better under-
standing was now being reached by both sexes
on the subject of Woman's Suffrage, and that
the question was growing in lavor and
popularity. We have had good support from
some of our prominent male friends in this
County. On Monday last we organized an
association in Huntsville with 36 members.
The officers were duly installed and we had
an enthusiastic and enjoyable time. My many
duties and health, however  are such that a
few weeks ago I tendered my resignation but
consented to continue to act until this meeting.
While I retire from the charge of this associa-
tion after a service of three years, my
sympathies are with the cause and I shall
still give it all the support and encouragement
my feeble ability and efforts will admit of.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards of the Territorial
Central Committee here took the chair
tendered her, and called upon Hon F. S.
Richards who in an able manner explained the
object and aims of women in establishing these
Associations, space however forbids an extend-
ed reference to the many good things refered
to. The effort was most appreciatively received
by the audience.
	The chair then announced that the meeting
would proceed to the election of officers for the
organization of an association for Ogden City
instead of Weber County as it was designed to
organize these associations in all the towns
and settlements in the County where desired
by the people. On motion the Chair
appointed the following named ladies a
committee on nomination Mrs. L. Farr, H.
Brown, Jane S. Richards, E. Y. Stanford and
L. M. Richards. In the absence of the
committee to consult Mrs. F. S. Richards,
addressed, he meeting. "As women we need
to be better informed on all public questions.
The young ladies, are not so interested as they
should be in the suffrage. As we have to
appear in public we have to educate ourselves
in public duties. It is not politics that
degrade man,but man too frequently degrades
politics. Woman is not so much weaker than
man, compare her duties with his and her
physical strength in many respects is equal.
In many departments in public service women
should be called upon to do duty. A police
matron is a very necessary officer, woman
should take charge of woman her sex demands
it, but she is diffident and backward."
	The committee announced their readiness
to report and the following names were
submitted. Miss Roseltha Canfield President,
Mrs Kate S. Hilliard 1st Vice Pres., Mrs.

[Column 2]

Annie Dyer Taylor 2nd Vice Pres., Miss
Lizzie M. Stanford Sec'y, Mrs. Ella
Woodmansee Treas. Miss Canfield positively
declini g the nomination, the committee
substituted the name of Mrs. Hattie Brown for
Pres. Each name was then presented in the
order named by the nominating committee and
unanimously sustained by the vote of the
meeting.
	The Chair then stated that it would be
necessary to appoint a County Central
Committee when it was suggested that rs-
presentatives from each settlement be nominat-
ed a committee, to present the names of those
ladies to be voted upon to constitute said
committee. The suggestion was made a
motion and the call of the roll represented as
present Huntsville 6 delegates, Slaterville 2,
Harrisville 5, North Ogden 6, Riverdale 7,
Lynne 3, Marriot 9, Mound Fort 2, Wilson
Lane 1, and a large delegation from Ogden.
The following ladies were elected said
committee, Mrs. J. S. Richards, E. Y, Stanford
and L. M. Richards.
	Short but interesting speeches were then
made by Mr. D. McKay, Mrs. Stanford,
Mrs. Brown, J. S. Richards and L. M. Richards
when the meeting terminated.
			M. S. WILCOX, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DO SOMETHING.

	This was the watchword with which the
National Woman's Press Association called a
meeting at Willards, to discuss the subject of
the Russian Famine, with its attendant
matters; the grain contributions of the west,
the need of ships, and the desire to help in any
and every possible way. Mrs. E. M. S.
Marble stated the object of the meeting in a
spicy speech of two minutes, into which her
breathless articulation compressed the expres-
sion of sympathy, the out reaching generosity,
the utter mortification, degradation and
indignation of the people, who were so
hindered and hampered by the unaccountable
action of the House of (non) Representatives.
Clara Barton then spoke of what was needed,
and refuted the statements that the Red Cross
Association had made any "appeal," also the
newspaper announcements that money had
been raised and sent to her. She said that the
amount of grain already offered could be
quadrupled in three weeks, if only some means
for shipping it could be assured. She also
stated that Russia was entirely willing to accept
this. No feeling of pride or resentment stood
in the way. Russia's people were starving,
and the government was doing all in its
power. Many officials, including the Legation
here, had donated their salaries—(a good
suggestion for our Representatives.) But it
must be remembered that the very cause of
the famine, was also a cause of decreased
revenues, and do all they could, the home
government could not do all that was needed
and without hesitation, Russia would accept
any help for her suffering people.
	Mrs. Joanna Turner read some extracts from
the London Spectator, and spoke with great
earnestness.
	Ex. Governor Hoyt of Wyoming, was
introduced as "Woman's Friend," a title
which he said was the proudest he had ever
had conferred on him. He then outlined the
plan of the committee for sending help to
Russia, of which he is chairman, and spoke
enthusiastically of what is being done, and of
the power which can be wielded by the press
in arousing public sentiment, and crystalliz-
ing the universal desire to contribute toward
the cause. He modestly alluded to his own
position, and the efforts being made by the
committee, and read a stirring appeal, which
had been prepared to be sent to clergymen, to


follow up those already issued to Governors,
Mayors, and Boards of Trade. He had no
stint of praise for Miss Barton, the Red Cross,
and the people who had already so eagerly
come forward with help and encouragement,
and showed no doubt of the ultimate result.
			Ex.


DEATH OF A HEROINE﻿

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:
	It seems as though it would be doing an
injustice to the many friends (who reside in
Utah, adjoining Territories and Mexico) of
the worthy dead, not to give notice of her
demise through the columns of your valuable
paper which she esteemed so highly.
	Susanne Smith Adams daughter of Anthony
Smith and Sarah Mahurau Smith Meeks.
Was born 30th May 1819 in Grason County,
Kentucky. In the fall of 1834 she moved to
Morgan County Ill., where she became
acquainted with Orson B. Adams to whom
she was married on the 20th of March, 1836.
In the fall of the same year she moved to
Brown Co., Ill. where in connection with her
husband she embraced the Gospel in March
1840. In 1842 they went to Nauvoo where
sha lived until 1846. Then she started West
with her husband, crossed the Missouri River
on the 18th of June and arrived at Council
Bluffs on the 16th of July.
	There her husband volunteered in the U. S.
Service to go to Mexico in defense of his
country. Her wish was to go also that she
might share his burdens in that memorable
campaign. Consent was obtained, and she
packed what little wearing apparel she had in
a pillow slip, and started on that toilsome
journey through a wilderness country with
but two quilts for bedding. Without a
murmur she waited daily on the sick,
administering comfort and cheer to all around
her. On the 12th of October she arrived at
Santa Fe, rested five days and took up the
line of march for California. In the Spring
of 1847 she arrived at Fort John, (now
Laramie,) there it was learned that the Pioneers
were a few days ahead. Following their
trail for 510 miles her company reached the
Valley. Just in sight and within three miles
of the Pioneer's camp they had quite a time of
rejoicing. Traveling down to City Creek, a
short distance below the Pioneer's Camp she
pitched her tent on the 28th of July 1847.
Thanking God for the Oasis of the Desert,
and acknowledg ing Him for the good health
and protecting care she had enjoyed during
her weary travels with the Battalion and into
the valley. She was now prepared to continue
her labors in connection with her husband, as
the servants of God might direct. In 1848
Bro. Adams raised 20 bushels of wheat which
was much appreciated by her, having lived
the first Winter and Spring on roots and
greens.
	They now made a home on Mill Creek
where they lived quite comfortable until
Dec. 1851; then they were called to Iron Co.
where they arrived on the 14th of Feb. 1852.
Here for the third time she had her name
enrolled as a member of the Relief Society;
having been a member of that organization in
Nauvoo and also in Great Salt Lake. In
1854 she was set apart by Apostle Geo. A.
Smith to wait upon her sex in sickness. For
thirty eight years she humbly pursued her
calling with great success. Putting her trust
in God she stimulated the faith of those with
whom she labored—bringing peace, joy and
good cheer to all among whom she administered.
In the fall of 1865 she moved to Harrisburgh
Washington County, and in 1866 the Relief
Society was organized in that place, and she


was chosen President, and acted in that
capacity till 1877, when she resigned on
account of ill health and the frequent calls
from the sick. In 1883 her health was
somewhat improved and in March of that
year she was chosen by Sister E. Laney as her
first Counselor which position she held up to
the time of her death, which occured at 10
p. m. on the 23rd of January 1892 at her
residence in Harrisburgh, Utah, after a
protracted sickness with but little pain or
suffering, she passed away without a struggle.
She leaves a husband one daughter and an
adopted son, twenty-three grand-children five
great grand-children, her mother also survives
her and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
	Just previous to her departure from this
life, she called her son-in-law by name, and
urged him to use his best endeavors to direct
the energies and strength of her grand-children
in those channels that would best promote the
interests of the Work of God, in which cause
she had labored nothing doubting for nearly
50 years. Funeral services were held at Leeds
Meeting House where the largest gathering
that had met there for years, assembled to pay
their last respects to the one they loved so well.
Consoling remarks were made by Counselor
Leatham and Elders Steel, Doge, and
Spillsbury.
	All spoke in the highest terms of her many
virtues and unswerving integrity for the
Cause of Truth.
			L. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Miss Hulda Friedricks, a brilliant young
German, has been engaged by the Pall Mall
Gazette to make a tour of the United States
and write up the Social Institutions of the
country and especially matters relating to
women.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Sarah
Jane Goff Blackburn, who departed this life on the morn-
ing of the 28th of December 1891, at Loa, Piute Co. Utah,
born March 22, 1831, Howard Co., Missouri.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His alwise
providence to call from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah
Jane wife of Elias H. Blackburn.
	Resolved that we regret the loss of her presence in our
Society.
	Resolved that we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family and friends in the great loss of an affectionate wife
and mother.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and regard her
virtues as worthy of emulation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be spread upon our
Relief Society records and a copy be furnished the bereaved
family also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
			NANCY RIDDLE,
			SARAH S. FORSYTH,
			LEAH BLACKBURN,
			SARAH A. ROBISON,
			ELIZABETH C. JEFFERY.

	Died at Holden, Millard Co. U. T. Jan. 25, 1892 (with
paralysis) Ingborg Jenson, beloved wife of Thomas Stephen-
son. She was born at Freskehws Town, Longby, Malmo,
Sweden, and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints Nov. 7, 1857, at Copenhagen. She
emigrated to Utah in 1864 and was married to Thomas C.
Stephenson 1866.
	She has been a faithful member of the Relief Society since
its organization and has been a most efficient and diligent
laborer as a teacher for five years, and was always on hand
when wanted either in work or for means. She has been
to the Temple of the Lord and has done a work for the
dead, and now free from sorrow and pain has gone to meet
with those that will welcome her for the good work she has
done for them.
	Although we miss her company among us we know it is
her gain. She passed away like a child going to sleep
without a struggle; true to her God and the work she had

[Column 2]

embraced and it can be truly said of her she sacrificed her
all for the glorious hope that was within her, she dwells
now in a holier sphere.
	Rest, sweet rest at home in heaven.
		Com.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the hand of death has again been among us,
during the last month, two of our beloved sisters have been
called behind the veil. The first was Sister Caroline Sykes
Julien, who after a long and painful illness was summoned
to her rest on Dec. 4, 1891. She was born May 26, 1832, in
Yorkshire, England. Came to Utah in 1862, became a
member of the Relief Society in the early days of its or-
ganization, she was a faithful Latter-day Saint, had a kind
and cheerful word for all around her, was also a loving and
indulgent mother. She has left eight children and a sister
behind to mourn her loss which they deeply feel being
fatherless quite a number of years.
	Also Sister Hannah Howe departed this life Dec. 24,
1891, aged 61 years lacking two days. She was born Dec.
26 1830, in Warwickshire England joined the Church in her
youth and came to Utah in 1869. She soon became a
member of the Relief Society and for a number of years
has been a diligent and faithful teacher therein She leaves
a husband and four children to mourn her loss as also
many friends and sisters in the Relief Society. Therefore
be it
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief Society do
recognize in the death of our sisters the loss of two faith-
ful workers in the cause of truth.
	And that we extend our sympathies to the families be-
reaved and pray God our Heavenly Father to comfort
bless and help them in this their trying time.
	Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions be sent to the
American Fork Independent, the WOMAN'S EXPONENET,
and one be spread on the Records of the Society.
			MARY S. HINDLEY,
			ALICE ELSMORE,
			MARY B. ADAMS,
				Committee.

	We the sisters of the Rexburg Second Ward Relief
Society send you the following lines in respect to the
memory of Sister Mary A. Ricks who departed this life
Jan. 30th, 1892. She was born Oct. 28, 1870, and was the
wife of Alfred Ricks and daughter of John and Adeline
Roberts; was a member of the Rexburg Second Ward
Relief Society, was the secretary of the Sunday School and
was a leading member of the choir, she was a lovely singer;
we not only feel the loss of her in our Society, but that of
a sincere worker in any spiritual calling and a steadfast
sister and friend; she was one of the noblest of women; of
her it might be said, faithful and true in all things she lived
and died a saint. She suffered untold agony for a few
hours and although many loving hands were constantly do-
ing and anxious hearts praying for her recovery, the Lord
saw fit to release her from this earthly mission and call her
home. None knew her but to love her. The funeral
services were held in the meeting house, appropriate re-
marks were made by brothers T. E. Bassett, F. S. Bramuel
Pres. Thomas Ricks and M. Ricks. she was followed to the
cemetery by a large procession of relatives and friends to
await the resurrection morn.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Sister Mary A.
Ricks,
	Whereas our beloved sister has been called away by the
hand of death, and be it
	Resolved that we in behalf of the Relief Society do sin-
cerely deplore the loss of a patient worker and a true sister
and we tender to the bereaved parents and husband our
mutual sympathy and implore our Heavenly Father to let
the comforting influence of his holy spirit rest upon them
in this deep sorrow.
	Resolved these resolutions be entered into Relief Society's
record also a copy be presented to the bereaved parents
and husband and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	Deaa sister Mary thou art gone,
		To dwell in realms above,
	To await the resurrection morn
		When you'll meet with those you love.
			Com.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE - 324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS- 10 a. m., to 4. 8 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN'S  TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET, Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

(Black square with white square turned 45 degrees with words: "RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY  SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD)
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY! 
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY 
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily 
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY 
IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE, A.E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT, 
Supt.	G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


Apostle F. S. Richards

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

