VOL. 20 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15,1892. No. 19.


CONTENTS.
	Jubilee Conference Lesson—S. W. Richards.
In Rural England—A Story. A Question of
Evolution—W. M. Bicknell. Thoughts on Wo-
man—E. H. L. Educate Woman—May Brown.
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. Reports. W. S.
A. Reports. Birthday Parties—Persis S. Richards
—Rachel Whipple. Julia A. Allred. Apprecia-
tion—Nellie Little. World’s Fair Notes. Notes
and News. Women’s News—Almy Alden.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference and Capstone Cere-
monies. Editorial Notes. Relief Society Notes
—S M. Kimball. Benefits of the Club—M. A.
Freeze.
	POETRY:—The Singing in God’s-Acre—Eu-
gene Field. A Song for a Man—E. Hough.


THE SINGING IN GOD’S-ACRE.

BY EUGENE FIELD.

Out yonder in the moonlight, wherein God’s-Acre lies.
Go angels walking to and fro, singing their lullabies;
Their radiant wings are folded and their eyes are, bended
	low,
As they sing among the beds whereon the flowers delight
	to grow:
	“Sleep, oh, sleep!
	The Shepherd guardeth His sheep!
Fast speedeth the night away,
Soon cometh the glorious day;
	Sleep, weary ones, while ye may—.
Sleep, oh, sleep!"
The flowers within God's-Acre see that fair and wondrous
	sight,
And hear the angels singing to the sleepers through the
	night;
And, lo! throughout the hours of day those gentle flowers
	prolong
The music of the angels in that tender slumber-song:
	"Sleep, oh, sleep!
	The Shepherd loveth His sheep!
He that guardeth His flock the best
Hath folded them to His loving breast-
So, sleep ye now and take your rest—
	Sleep, oh, sleep!”
From angel and from flower the years have, learned that
	soothing song.
And with its heavenly music speed the days and nights
	along;
So, through all time, whose flight the Shepherd’s vigils
	glorify,
God’s-Acre slumbereth in the grace of that sweet lullaby:
	"Sleep, oh, sleep!
The Shepherd loveth His sheep!
Fast speedeth the night away,
Soon cometh the glorious day; 
Sleep, weary ones, while ye may—
	Sleep, oh, sleep!”


[Column 1]
JUBILEE CONFERENCE LESSON.

S. W. RICHARDS.

	The late Jubilee Conference of the sisters
“Relief Society,” held in all the Stakes of Zion,
in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary
of its organization possessed many of those at-
tractive features which only the ladies can im-
part to such occasions, and by their zealous ef-
forts make truly interesting to all participants.

[Column 2]
	Never before have the labors of that Society
been presented to the public, in such an ap-
preciative manner, and awakened such a lively
interest as has since prevailed.
	Not only the magnitude of the labor done,
but the character of those labors, prompted as
they have been by the purest love, by kindness
and charity, such as only the female heart
under the influence of heavenly inspiration can
feel the importance of, excites the admiration
of every one in the least susceptible of divine
impulses; such as are only prompted by love of
God for fellow man.
	The introduction of the teachings of the
Prophet Joseph relating to that organization,
was a very interesting feature to all who were
favored with them; and it is possible a few of
the most important items might be more easily
remembered by isolating them from the gener-
al instructions such as the following;—
	“Women must assist in correcting the morals,
and strengthening the virtues of the com-
munity.”
	“Must be a select society, separate from the
evils of the world.”
	“The organization of the church more com- 
plete by organizing the women in the order of
the Priesthood.” 
	“Officers, if wanted, to be appointed and set
apart as Teachers, Deacons,&, among us.”
	“The Society is not only to relieve the poor
but to save souls.”
	“Women, if pure and innocent, can come
into the presence of God. Angels cannot be
restrained from being your associates.”
	Each of these quotations are a text a state-
ment of facts, sufficient for a sermon worthy the
eloquence and favor of divine inspiration. By
them, the present accepted field of woman’s
labor in the family is extended to the com-
munity. By them we learn that as woman is
the counterpart of man in all that is essential
to the perpetuity and welfare of the race, so is
the organization of this society in the church,
the counterpart to the Priesthood organization;
and as necessary to the completeness of that
organization, as woman was to man in his
creation. We are also informed that it is
woman’s legitimate sphere to labor for the sal-
vation of the souls of men, as well as to ad-
minister to the temporal wants, the necessities
and comfort of his person.
	As the increasing family demands the con-
stant care, and untiring physical and mental
efforts of the mother, while performing her
many duties to the needy and helpless circle
of her home, so the ever increasing family
of God’s children who coming from afar to
their Zion-home, may by this helpful organ-
zation receive the nurture and kindly admin-
stration so necessary to their growth and de-
velopment, and which these loving hearts and
generous hands are ever ready to impart to
those who are as comparatively helpless and
needy in their new-found-home, as the babe in
the home of its parents.
	The food that satisfies the hungry; the
garments that clothe the naked; the word of
consolation that comforts the afflicted; the
testimony that strengthens the faith of the
weak; the assurance that makes hope the
anchor of the soul, and those innumerable
kindly acts of charity that bespeak the love of
God, are all appropriate to, and come within
the sphere of woman’s love and duty.
	An appreciation of woman’s character and

[Column 3]
position was well expressed by the Poet who
asserts, that:-
	“ Heaven when it had created man,-
	Unfinished found creation’s plan, 
	Though men and angels were akin, 
	A chasm still appeared between, 
	Nor would the links together meet, 
	Till WOMAN made the chain complete."
	Indeed , it is through her, both by teaching
and by the sacred virtues embodied in her love,
that the love of God comes to man.
	Her love, in the kindly administrations con-
templated in this society organization, answers
to the feminine element of the world, as truly
as the stern demands of duty and obligation do
to the Masculine Forces associated with the
authority of priesthood, and is as necessary to
a perfect government, as woman was to man
when it was “not good for man to be alone.”
	These two blended together in the harmony
of their appointments, offer to the race of man
all that humanity can desire, the goal of hu-
man happiness, all that christianity can
impart.
	These lessons so forcibly impressed by the
Prophet, teach us that women should be
organized in their labors. That their organ-
zation makes that of the priesthood more
complete, consequently, is not perfect without 
them. That the society is not only to relieve
the poor, as a leading consideration, but must
assist in correcting morals, strengthening
virtue, and in saving souls. That woman’s
work is one that requires a living faith,
abounding with good works in the midst of the
community. A faith that will not only heal
the sick by prayer, but cleanse from those mor-
al diseases that afflict humanity, and be to man
what angels may be to them, ministers of peace,
light and love.
	This condition reached, it may well be said
that angels cannot be restrained from associat-
ing with women thus pure and innocent, nor
they from coming into the presence of God.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XI.
	It was a strange gathering in the great
drawing room at the old Castle on that event-
ful day when the will of Sir Edward Hilliard
was read. Miss Conway and Lady Anna had
talked much together and had so far as
possible prepared themselves for the trying
ordeal. The cousin who had not been expect-
ing a fortune or in fact even a legacy was per-
haps the most deeply thankful of the two, for
her mind grasped the subject in all its bearings
and dwelt upon the probable results, while the
daughter trusted all to those in charge and
only longed to have it all over. Business in
detail she had no conception of and she was so
intensely in love that all other things were
secondary. She listened patiently enough
when her cousin explained how important all
these affairs were, but she comprehended very
little of the matter. How easy it might have
been to deceive Lady Anna, Miss Conway
quite understood.
	Sir Edward's solicitor had everything ar-
ranged in strict accordance with law and the
sense of decorum so apparent in the legal
affairs of the English aristocracy, he was care-
ful in the most minute particular, and it was
almost painful to Miss Conway to be compelled


[Column 1]

to hear beforehand how each one of those far-
off relatives must be seated, and what defer-
ence must be paid to them, whereas she knew
they had only come in expectation of a share
in the estate which in her opinion rightfully
belonged to Lady Anna alone.
	On a damp, drizzly evening in February the
time set for the assembling of all the relatives
of the late deceased Baronet, the family were
seated in the long, low, old-style drawing-room
and solemn and grave was the expression of
each one, as though some sudden revelatiou
was to be made.
	The will was read—the executors named
therein were present and all was silent except
the sobs of the pale, fair girl whose father had
spoken of her as not yet of age, and left her
under the care and guardianship of a man she
had never known. She was stunned and be-
wildered, could not take in the situation, she
had fancied herself free except as her cousin
might advise and now she was utterly at a loss
to know what her obligations were.
	The whole company seemed under a spell,
everything proved so decidedly different to
what had been surmised beforehand. Mr.
Burke and Dr. Bland were the only ones who
seemed composed and equal to the situation.
	One looked at the other as though anxious to
know what the next movement of the play was
to be and as if it were not possible the act was
over, and yet all was silent—finally there was
a signal for rising and a servant announced
"dinner," and Mr. Burke lead the way with
Lady Anna to the dining hall, the Dr. took
Miss Conway, but waited for the guests who
were visiting there to precede them. Aunt
Judith leaned upon a cousin of her's who was
also distantly related to the Baronet, a man
of few words, whose views were strictly in ac-
cord with those of "Cousin Judith's," a thin,
angular sort of a person with weak eyes and
weaker intellect, Mr. Andrews, he had come
simply as a friend not expecting a penny,so he
had stated to Lady Anna distinctly, then fol-
lowed Mrs. Matilda Brookland and her hus-
band a country 'squire from Devonshire, and
her two daughters, Hannah and Susannah with
three half-grown boys, and one or two odd
cousins rather gentlemanly men from a dis-
tance of whose existence until their arrival
neither the family solicitor or the Dr. had
ever heard. This completed the group, and
Miss Conway not been in so serious a mood she
would have laughed outright as they filed in
and were seated at the table where a sumptuous
repast was waiting. They were all in the
deepest mourning garments, and their doleful
faces corresponded with their sombre wearing
apparel.
	A strange party they made indeed, and a
silent one too, there was little in common to be
shared except the Baronet's money and that
was sadly misappropriated according to their
ideas, better understood than expressed evi-
dently from the silence. Gradually the dinner
made them talkative as it generally does and
one and then another gave an opinion to the
next neighbor at table; they spoke low how-
ever, and seemed waiting for an opinion with
which to coincide.
	Finally Squire Brookland the brother in
law clearing his throat and raising his voice
so as to be heard by all present, addressing
himself to his wife said, "I say Matilda your
brother Edward had more money than appear-
ances indicate, but what a miserly life he's
been living all these years in this old place,
and now what'll come of it all, it'll be
swallowed up in lawsuits, aud precious little
good will come of it, not so shrewd a man by
half as I took him for, though it was very little
I ever knew about him anyway," and as he was
about finishing the remark, the cousin of aunt
Judith, Mr. Andrews, in a thin weak voice put
in "I say Squire I don't see why you should

[Column 2]

speak disrespectfully of Sir Edward he's given
your wife a good penny, and here's cousin
Judith his own aunt, who needs help, in her
declining years only a paltry thousand,and his
cousins a bare pittance, and all that lot to some
fine fellow nobody knows who,—what's the
name? I can't remember and who is he any-
how?" That was what they all wanted to know,
and that was the mastery. Neither the lawyer
or the Doctor ventured a word on the subject
and the conversation turned upon the weather
and other topics, and finally the ladies rose
and left the room.
	After the ladies left the table Squire Brook-
land made bold to speak, he had been imbib-
ing some of his relative's old wine, and was
particularly loquacious, he addressed himself
to Burke the family solicitor who had only
condescended to reply to any question by yes
and no.
	"Mr. Burke would you mind telling us who
this stranger is to whom the Baronet has left so
much money, and who is hereafter to take the
name Hilliard, and live in England? Is he a
distant relation or the son of some old friend?"
	"Don't know, never inquired into the matter,
didn't think it was a part of my business."
That was all the answer, and soon after the
gentlemen left the dining hall, and Mr.
Burke announced to the Dr. his intention of
going up to London immediately. The two
withdrew into the Baronet's library, or rather
his "den or smoking room," it was not much of
a library, for he seldom read anything except
sporting news, and there they had a long con-
ference together. "Its going to make a terrible
stir this affair of leaving so much money to
that foreign woman's son,and how his daughter
will take it when she comes to know all I am at
a loss to understand" said Burke in his quiet
way, but so it is and so it must be."
	"We are in no way answerable" the Dr. re-
plied, "and it is no doubt right,a reparation to
be made, to one unjustly treated in his life-
time—the woman who should have been his
wife, and mistress here; what surprises me
most is that he never told his niece, she's a
most sensible young woman."
	"Perhaps he has;" suggested Burke, "she
may be in the secret, but she seems unapproach-
able, however it does not matter, Lady Anna
is the only consideration, her claim to the name
is indisputable, and she may object to this in-
terloper bearing the name, it would be strange
if she were to acquiesce quietly."
	"Better that than have the case go into the
Courts, and a public scandal, and you ought
to tell her so Burke." "But if she don't
speak how are we to know, she looked like a
statue today, pale and cold, yet you say her
color mounted high when she heard that name,
she had never heard of his existence then I'm
quite sure. And Miss Conway I did not
venture to look at. Its a queer affair altogether
a man of the world like Sir Edward who never
seemed to have any love for his own child, born
in lawful wedlock, to leave all that money and
heritage to one unheard of, he must have had
some affection for this woman, or a strong sense
of justice, or a tenderer conscience than most
men."
	And so the two men talked on, the Dr. never
betraying in the least his love for Miss Conway
but he wished in his inmost heart she had not
been left so independent in the will, yet he
felt it was right, but as he was guardian of
Miss Hilliard, and her cousin was to have
charge of her until she was of age, his oppor-
tunities would be favorable to his suit. All
this he recognized and it reconciled him in a
way, and still he was anxious now that he had
declared himself to Miss C.— to have a promise
and in fact to make her his wife. It was quite
in keeping with the man, he had plenty, he
pursued his profession more from love of the
work and of his fellow men than from any

[Column 2]

other motive, but now—there arose another
obstruction, this young fellow, what complica-
tions might there not be, and he would be
necessarily mixed up in the affair. Burke was
to come down from London again in a week,
before that time there would be more news
from the continent, and meanwhile he would
try his fortune with Miss Jane Conway for
good or ill, if he could induce her to speak on
the subject.
	Miss Conway was as much perplexed over
this new heir that had been mentioned in the
will as the others, but not nearly so much
astonished, for she had discovered in her talks
with her uncle that he was susceptible to the
"tender passion," and she had witnessed the
scene with Lady Walton and it had opened
her eyes considerably. She did not feel equal
to broaching the subject to her cousin Anna
though, and determined to wait for Anna to
speak on her own account; things must take
their course she felt, and now she wanted to be
more alone than it was possible with all these
people who had come to hear the will—and
who seemed quite at their ease in the house of
their deceased relative. Aunt Judith particu-
larly with her maid and all her traps kept
things in an uproar, for the maid was fond of
gossip, and the servants were talkative, and
Aunt Judith listened to the gossip from below
stairs reported with elaborations by her maid
and repeated it to Jane her neice wanting all
the explanations. Jane was discreet and never
enlightened her in the least, though she plied
her with numberless questions, about Anna's
sweetheart, and how cruelly he had been
treated etc. And in fact how it was she had
gained such a foothold with her uncle as to be
left almost equal with his own daughter in the
settlement of the estate, while Matilda who was
also his sister had only a small sum and her
children nothing. But Jane was impervious,
no amount of coaxing or wheedling would in-
duce her to say more than that, "she knew
nothing of her uncle's financial affairs." Lest
her cousin Anna should be persuaded to talk,
Jane cautioned her, telling her it was always
best to keep one's affairs from becoming public
property, and that these relatives cared little
except for what they were likely to get, "And
you know cousin Anna" she added, "uncle
Edward never invited them here, seldom men-
tioned their names, never to me but once, and
then not very respectfully, Aunt Matilda is
very well in her way,dignified and lady like but
not like her sister"—and she stopped short for
a sob in her throat, it was seldom, indeed she
ever spoke of her mother, the memory was too
sacred.
	"I remember Aunt Helen when I was very
young" said Anna, "the prettiest picture in my
mind of all the ladies I have ever seen, it is
almost like a dream, so sweet-mannered and
gentle—and so inexpressibly beautiful, and
papa loved her very much I am sure," by this
time Jane was sobbing outright and Anna's
tears were falling out of pure sympathy for
her cousin; when Jane grew more calm her
cousin said, "although you are an orphan you
have the remembrance of a home, with father
and mother while I have never known a
mother's love, that is something to cherish,"
and she paused, as if unwilling to add more,
but Jane knew well what was in her heart;—
that her father had been almost like a stranger
and her home anything but homelike. "We
shall be all in all to each other from this time
Anna, and though there will be many changes
in our life here, yet we have sufficient to live
upon and to travel, we can go abroad, and see
the world, and that will make up some losses,
we have had." "No cousin Jane" said Anna
now warming  to the subject, "I will not go
abroad or anywhere until I know what my
fate is to be, I mean what Maitland will do.
I must see him this separation and suspense is


most trying, you do not know Jane, you have
never loved, and you cannot possibly feel for
me, or know what I suffer."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SONG FOR A MAN.

A song for a man!
Away with the personal plaint!
Away with the twanging of strings one-ended, centered in
	self!
Away with the pity of self and fie! for the inturned eye.
—Turn the eye outward, and lo! there are the earth and
	the sky.
	(O, friend, arise! Short the day and sad is the frown
		of the evening.
	Weep not, and waste not the  light, and spill not the
		wine of thy living.
	Hast thou a hurt in the heart? Limbless thy brothers
		perhaps.
	Are thy feet stumbling and tired?  Others are down in
		the dust.
	This love you mourn, it may have been better to lose it.
	Blow out the ashes of love with the bellows of work—
	Out of your heart and your life, and be done with
		mere fanning!)

A song for a man! These singers who pipe small and
	fine,
Who sing of a gown or a glove, a vase, or a lady's eye—
Dapper dressed dandies in verse—iambic-setters in trade
—Why should we listen to these, when to today there is full
	on the air
All the good unison, drum, trump and clarion,
Pealing a song for man!

A song for a man! The child and the woman, perhaps,
May have smaller music to hear, with no smiting chord to
	alarm.
Who likes may sing of true love, the life of the ages, and
	he
Who likes may bewail the false love which liker is true—
All little, light, of no worth!
But say, to what key shall be set
An unposioned song for a man?

Ah, listen! You'll catch it at dawn,
When the milkmaid and plowboy go forth.
You'll hear it at evening, at noon,
When the axeman is wielding his blade.
You will hear the wheels take it and droon,
And so will the note be set,
Vibrant and stinging in joy,
And you'll sing though your eye should be wet.
You'll catch it and know it, and sing
That the heart joyed in labor, alone,
Is the one that can know or can feel
Or be home for a song for a man!

			E. HOUGH.


A QUESTION OF EVOLUTION.

	If there is anything in the signs of the times,
woman suffrage will, in no long time, be every-
where achieved. The law of change for the bet-
ter, termed evolution by science, is firmly
established. It is the greatest folly to stand in
the way of the evolving wheels. The world, like
a child, grows towards maturity. It will not
stop at the goal which ignorance, superstition
and injustice set up. Is divinely ordained pro-
gress content with the belief that the sun and
lesser lights move round the earth? Has the
spirit of advancement nothing to say against
the crudities and cruelties of barbaric war and
the halting pace of civilization? Creation was
not finished with the religion and inquisition
of the Middle Ages—is not finished now. Na-
ture abhors a vacuum and stagnancy, there is
so much to move and so many places to be fill-
ed that concern the race. Where is the author-
ity, above that of stronger limbs, for one half
of the citizens to take sole charge of the econo-
mic, educational, moral and administrative
affairs of the government? Man alone born with
that wisdom!
	It would, beyond measure, be well for the


opposers quickly to drop their obstinacy, if
they wish to leave a good name to their child-
ren and to be in at the ovation, and glorifi-
cation of universal franchise to which society
is fast evolving.
			W. M. BICKNELL.


THOUGHTS ON WOMAN.

	Man, the noblest work of God, yet not com-
plete without woman. Infancy, girlhood, but
too soon pass away. Maidenhood in after
years seems but a dream. Wife, then Mother
the crowning part of woman's existence. Love
the poet has written "with man is but a thing
apart, but with woman her whole existence."
	"What is home without a mother?" who so
mindful of all the little comforts and who so
truly anticipates the needs of her husband and
children? Woman in her nature is more gentle,
kind and trusting than man. With what forti-
tude will she sustain the most overwhelming
misfortunes. There are many who live a life
of single blessedness, but it seems as though
they had not filled the measure of their crea-
tion. Woman will stand equal with man in
all save physical strength, and for that reason
is called the weaker vessel. Man has been
represented as the sturdy oak, woman as the
 clinging ivy. Would to God men were always
safe to cling to! What wife would not be
proud to have a husband that she could look
up to at all times. There are many cases
where the wife stands utterly alone, and sad in-
deed is such an one.
	The brain of man is said to weigh heavier
but woman's to be of finer texture. Women
comprise two thirds the number of our
Churches and in our day she is wielding a
powerful influence for good. Grant her the
suffrage and her vote will not be cast either
for whiskey drinkers or whiskey sellers.
	In the ordinary affairs of life, woman has a
greater influence over those around her than
man; especially with her children. The
Scottish poet Burns seemed to thoroughly un-
derstand human nature for he wrote that in
the beginning,

	"God tried His 'prentice hand on man,
	And then He made the lassies."

			E. H. L.


[Column 1]

EDUCATE WOMEN.

	[The Education of Woman in regard to
Civil Government and National Politics or the
Science of Government.]
	The women of today are very desirous of be-
coming well educated and having their minds
cultivated to as great an extent as possible.
When we become well educated we will
acomplish what we are striving for viz. our
rights, and every step taken in this direction
has a tendency to crumble and remove every
obstacle that stands between woman and her
rights.
	During the most successful period of the
Roman Government the works of women con-
stituted a principal feature which led Rome
to her victories. They loved and honored their
government and reared their children in the
same light.
	The golden reign of Queen Elizabeth is a
brilliant star that shines very bright among the
works of the female sex. While she was queen,
England was governed by one of its greatest
and best sovereigns. In this age the great talent
and literary success blossomed. The greatest
writers the world has ever known, Shakespeare
at their head, Bacon, Sidney, Raleigh, and
Spencer were her contemporaries. She coped
also with the greatest politicans and statesmen
of the age. During her reign the Spanish Ar-
mada was defeated, the English colony in India

[Column 2]

was settled. England rose from a third class
nation to a first class. Much adventure was in-
dulged in and in every way when Elizabeth
left England it was much wiser, better and
more successful than it had heretofore been.
This is an example of what the mind of woman
can do if it is cultivated in the proper manner.
	The great Napoleon's success was due not
only to his vigor and strength, but he was guid-
ed by the gentle intelligent powers of
Josephine. As soon as he put aside his gentle
guide his victories died and his strength de-
creased until he was taken captive to the Island
of St. Helena.
	When the Revolutionary War was fought,
what credit is due those who were willing to
sacrifice their lives for their country and their
freedom. But while they were on the battle
field the mothers and sisters prepared food
and clothing, nursed the sick and wounded
and in this way did a great deal in aiding the
soldiers, and on the hill of honor, they stand
side by side, women and men, in wearing the
laurels of their victories.
	We find women who would make good
school teachers, book-keepers etc, and while
working in these positions do not get near the
pay a gentleman would get in the same
position. The time is very near when we can
fill these to a good advantage. When merit
alone shall decide who shall hold offices and
execute the laws, and when this time comes,
our intellects will be strengthened, and our
financial affairs equally based with our contem-
poriaries.
	While we are contending for our "Rights"
the sterner sex should not be jealous  of us and
tax their courtesy as did the gentleman in the
street car. A short time ago a lady, who was a
strong advocate of "Woman's Suffrage" en-
tered a street car that was very crowded. The
conductor asked a young man if he would give
his place to the lady. He answered with indif-
ference: "This lady is a strong advocate of
Woman's Suffrage she wants equal rights with
the men and now she can have them." It is
unworthy, unmanly and ungentlemanly, for a
man to try to push a lady down and build him-
self up. A gentleman will wish his mother, sis-
ter, and wife, to attain to as high a degree of
intelligence as he, himself desires to become,
and will aid her in doing so.
	The growth of this great nation is measured
by the freedom, honor and justice given to
those who have stood side by side with the men
in building up the nation to its present con-
dition. It has progressed well in the past.
How much better would it be in the future, if
the other half of the citizens had their fran-
chise?
	The education of our sex is the feature
which will determine our success in the future.
We must educate, or we must perish in our
own prosperity. We must be acquainted with
the great issues of the day; the two National
Parties. We must decide for ourselves what our
politics are.
	The women of to day are rearing their child-
ren as the proud matrons of ancient Rome
reared so many great Romans.
	In the near future they will be entitled to a
greater credit in modern times than is due the
proud matrons of ancient Rome.
			MAY BROWN.


New York courts have recently rendered
the decision that while a woman is entitled
to money earned outside her home, yet the
husband has a right to her services not only in
household work, but in any other manner
which he may direct. "Such services as she
renders him, whether within, or without, the
strict line of her duty, belong to him, and if
he pays her for them it is a gift," becasue he
cannot make a valid contract to pay her for
"extraordinary services."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1892.


[Column 1]

THE CONFERENCE AND CAPSTONE
CEREMONIES.

	The sixty-second Conference now just passed
has been a very important one in the history of
the Church and exceedingly interesting to every
Latter-day Saint. Commencing on Sunday April
3, the services have been calculated to inspire the
people with testimonies of the truth of the Latter-
day work and urge them to practise every virtue
that will make their lives more useful, and to
lift them to a higher and better standard of excellence
here, and create union, and prepare them for the
exaltation to which the righteous may attain
through faithfulness and the love of God. The
congregations have been very large and the
speakers have been greatly blest with the Holy
Spirit which has been abundantly poured out
upon the assembled multitudes.
	President Wilford Woodruff though suffering
from a severe cold has spoken with great power
and earnestness and Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, Pres.
Jos. F. Smith, Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Apostles
Franklin D. Richards, Moses Thatcher, F. M.
Lyman, John Henry Smith, John W. Taylor, H.
J. Grant, Mariner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund,
and Abraham H. Cannon, also Elder B. H.
Roberts, Pres. A. O. Smoot and Elder John
Morgan, addressed the people in the same
earnest and impressive manner, and the Confer-
ence altogether was very significant of the great
work now rapidly progressing.
	 Wednesday April 6th, was the grandest day of
the Conference. The priesthood in their general
quorums according to their order occupied the
stands and main part of the Tabernacle; the peo-
ple filling up the remainder—the east end of the
lower part of the hall and galleries, crowds of
people, an immense multitude filled the doorways
and the yard around. After the morning exer-
cises the meeting was addressed by President
Cannon in response to a resolution that had been
offered during the Conference and Pres. Lorenzo
Snow instructed the assembly as to the order of
the ceremony of laying the capstone of the
Temple, and the shouting of the Hosanna to be
uttered on or after the laying of the capstone, said
the words of the shout were introduced by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith at the Kirtland Temple and
were there used at a solemn assemblage where
the Spirit of God was manifested and the vision
of the Almighty opened up to the brethren. "This
is no ordinary order, but is and we wish it to be
distinctly understood—a sacred shout and em-
ployed only on extraordinary occasions like the
one now before us." Pres. Snow made other re-
marks and then proceeded to give the idea and
the people joined in the hosanna shout, the effect
of which thrilled the hearts of those present.

	PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF
said in substance: If there is any scene on the

[Column 2]

face of this earth that will attract the attention of
the God of heaven and the heavenly host, it is the
one before us today—the assembling of this peo-
ple, the shout of "Hosanna," the laying of the top
stone of this temple in honor of God. My
brethren, sisters and friends, we want to finish
this Temple; we want to dedicate it unto God as
soon as we can, so that the vast host who dwell in
this region of country may go into it and attend
to the ordinances for their living and for their
dead. I hope we shall all lay this to heart and try
to furnish means so far as we can, in order that
the building may be speedily completed. We
are able, as a people, to do this. I realize that
there are many calls upon the Latter-day Saints
for the work and purposes of the Church and
kingdom of God upon the earth; but this work
now before us is a most important event—the
most important that we have upon our hands. I
well remember the day and the hour when this
first revelation for the redemption of our dead
was received by the mouth of the Prophet of God.
Who can comprehend this? Where is the man
or woman who can comprehend this principle,
that we have the power to go into these Temples
of our God and redeem our progenitors—our
fathers and our mothers, from whom we have de-
scended? They never heard the Gospel; they
never enjoyed the blessings which you and I have
in our day and time through the mercy of God.
We are their posterity. They are on the other
side of the vail, shut up in prison, and will remain
there until their sons and daughters go into these
holy places and redeem them, as Jesus went to
preach to the spirits in prison three days and three
nights, while His body lay in the tomb. Some
of them had laid there a long time—thousands of
years—up to the time when Christ was crucified
and His Spirit went to them in prison. 
	President Woodruff then proceeded to enlarge
upon the blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day
Saints in regard to their work in the Temples,
and said he rejoiced in the knowledge that the
Prophet Jospesh Smith, President Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball and others formerly associated
with them in this great latter-day work on the
earth were rejoicing today at what they saw and
heard. The shout of "Hosanna" would enter into
the presence of God and they would rejoice
thereat. So far as we carried out the purposes
which God had placed upon us, and the responsi-
bilities devolving upon us, when we got through
here we should have the privilege on the morning
of the resurrection of sitting down with Abraham
Isaac and Jacob, and those of our relatives who
had already passed away in the family organiza-
tion of the celestial world for ever and ever.
	The choir sang

		The Temple Anthem.
	Benediction by President George Q. Cannon.
	At the close of the services in the Tabernacle,
the priesthood arranged in procession in their
proper order and under the superintendency of
Bishop John R. Winder, marched to the grounds
adjoining the Temple.
	On a stand at the South West corner of the
Temple, were the First Presidency of the Church
Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith, of the Apostles, President Lorenzo
Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Moses Thatcher,
Francis M. Lyman, John H. Smith, Heber J.
Grant, John W. Taylor, Mariner W. Merrill,
Anthon A. Lund and Abraham H. Cannon.
Patriarch to the Church John Smith. There were
also six of the seven Presidents of Seventies and
the Presiding Bishopric, Presidents of Stakes and
their Counselors. There were reporters tables
also where the Deseret News reporters and those
for other papers were seated. The platform was
elevated about eight feet above the ground, and
was decorated with the national colors; to the left
was a platform occupied by the Tabernacle choir

[Column 3]

and another stand also decorated with national
bunting, where stood the Conductor Evan
Stephens and an organ upon which Prof. Jos. J.
Daynes accompanied the music. Held's band
stood immediately East of the choir.
	The ceremonies began with the Capstone march
composed by Prof. C. J. Thomas and played by
Held's band. The Tabernacle choir sung the
hymn, composed for the occasion by C. L.
Walker,

	Glorious God, Eternal Father,
		In the name of Christ we pray
	Thou wilt bless us with Thy presence,
		While this crowning stone we lay;
	Let Thy favor rest upon it,
		Let Thy hand protect these tow'rs
	May Thy peace brood over this Temple,
		It is Thine, O Lord, not ours,
	It is Thine, it is Thine, it is Thine, O Lord, not ours.

	Glory, Glory, Hallelujah,
		Heav'n and earth and angels sing,
		Heav'n and earth and angels sing.
	Choirs celestial join the chorus. 
	Christ our King.
		Praise Him, Praise Him, Christ our King.

	Shout hosannas, shout hosannas,
		Glory be to God our head,
	For His everlasting mercies
		To the living and the dead;
	Joy now reigns where once was sadness
		'Midst the prison's dreadful gloom,
	Millions hail with joy and gladness
		Victory over hell and tomb!
	Victory, victory, victory over hell and tomb.
				CHORUS.

	Sound throughout His vast creations,
		All His wondrous heavenly host,
	Glory be to God the Father,
		Jesus Christ and Holy Ghost;
 	Sing ye bright seraphic legions
		Loud as thunder in the sky,
	Pealing through celestial regions,
		Glory be to God on high,
	Glory, glory, glory be to God on high!

	President Geo. Q. Cannon exhibited to the im-
mense assemblage of people a brass plate in-
scribed,

 		HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
	The Temple block consecrated and ground
broken for the foundation of this Temple, Feb.
14, 1853. The corner stones were laid April 6,
1853 commencing at the South east corner. The
names of the authorities of the Church April 6
1853 and the names of the authorities Apri 16,1892
were engraved also the names of the architects T.
Angell and Jos. D. C. Young, and the finishing
words were:
	"The capstone was laid April 6, 1892, by Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff. This plate and a number
of books were laid in the capstone, Book of
Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Voice of
Warning, Spencer's Letters, Key to Theology,
Hymn Book, Bible, Compendium, Pearl of Great
Price, and some others, photographs of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor,
Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith and of the Salt Lake Temple as it now
stands.
	The following prayer was offered by,

		PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	O God, our Heavenly Father, we desire to draw
near unto Thee at this moment and offer unto
Thee the gratitude of our hearts for this pleasant
and blessed opportunity that we enjoy of assemb-
ling ourselves together on this the sixty-second
anniversary of the organization of Thy Church
in the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of
times. We thank Thee that on this occasion we
are permitted and privileged to lay the capstone
of this building which we have been permitted to
erect thus far unto the name of God, our Father


[Column 1]

in Heaven. And we pray thee, O Father in the
name of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, that Thou wilt
behold us in mercy on this occasion, and accept
of our dedication of ourselves, of our labors, of
all that we have and are upon the earth, unto
Thee, the Lord our God; for we desire to be
Thine, and we desire that Thou wilt accept of us
and acknowledge us as Thy children and that we
may feel in our hearts that our lives and our
course of action are acceptable unto Thee. We
feel Heavenly Father, to dedicate unto Thee at
this time the capstone of this Temple. That we
are permitted to lay it this day, we are grateful to
Thee, and thus finish the laying of the stones of
this building, which has been for thirty-nine years
in the course of its erection. We thank Thee for
the privilege. We pray Thee to sanctify this
service to our good. May it go down in the
memories of those that are assembled here, and
may it be retained in the memories of the young
—the children that are here in our midst—that
they may carry it to their latest day. We thank
Thee that there are a few of us here that were privi-
leged to behold the laying of the corner stones of
of this building, and that Thou hast preserved us
through years that have passed and brought us to
this present time under so favorable circum-
stances as those which surround us. Bless this
vast congregation of people; pour out Thy Holy
Spirit upon them; may they have the Spirit of
God to dwell in their hearts, and may the love of
truth actuate them in all that they do from this
time forth and for ever. Bless the workmen that
have labored upon this Temple; bless those that
shall be immediately engaged in laying the cap-
stone; bless Thine aged servant President Wood-
ruff, and sanctify to him the honor which is due
unto him, O God, of laying the capstone by the in-
strumentality of electricity, that great agency, the
discovery of which has been granted unto the
people of this generation.
	We ask Thee Heavenly Father, now to accept
of us, and to accept of our services, for all that
we do we desire to do in Thy name, and to Thy
name’s honor and glory and to our salvation. We
dedicate ourselves unto Thee. Accept of us we
pray Thee and sanctify unto us every dispensa-
tion of Thy providence, and help us to see and
acknowledge Thy hand cheerfully in all things.
	All of which we ask in the name of Jesus Christ
our Redeemer. Amen.
	The choir sang:
		Grant us peace.
	Architect Joseph Don Carlos Young shouted
from the top of the Temple:
	"The cap-stone is now ready to be laid."
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF
stepped to the front of the platform and said:
	"Attention, all ye house of Israel and all ye
nations of the earth. We will now lay the top
stone of the Temple of our God, the foundation
of which was laid and dedicated by the Prophet,
Seer and Revelator Brigham Young."
	President Woodruff then pressed the button,
thus opening an electric current to machinery
connected with the capstone, the latter being thus
released and placed in position.
		THE HOSANNA.
	The immense concourse of people, led by
President Lorenzo Snow, shouted the hosanna in
concert:
	"Hosanna, hosanna, hosanna, to God and the
Lamb, Amen, Amen, and Amen."
	This was done three times, each shout being
accompanied by a waving of handkerchiefs, ex-
cept when the names of God and the Lamb were
uttered.
	The multitude of people, which must have
numbered from 40 to 44,000, who had gathered to
witness the ceremony of laying the top stone of
the Salt Lake Temple joining in the Hosanna
and waving their handkerchiefs like a great white\

[Column 2]

cloud, in appearance, was indeed beyond descrip-
tion, it was such as one seldom witnesses in a life-
time, emotional, inspirational to a degree the in-
tensity of which can only be realized by those
who participated in the sublime effort to praise
God.
	The choir and congregation then joined in sing-
ing that grand old hymn that has thrilled the
hearts of many thousands,

	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning."

	This sacred and inspiring hymn sung by the
vast congregation assembled was of itself soul-
stirring and must have awakened many reminis-
cences in the minds of those who had witnessed
the great outpouring of the Holy Spirit on a cer-
tain occasion in the Kirtland Temple when the
same hymn was sung there more than fifty years
ago.
	Then the Union Glee Club sang,

			THE TEMPLE ODE.
	[Words by H. W. Naisbitt, music by Prof C. J.
Thomas.]

		All hail this glorious day,
		This grand, auspicious day.
	The vales resound, the mountains ring,
	The capstone on the Temple bring,
	With gladsome peal, united sing,
			Of truth's still widening way.
		The time is near at hand,
	When Christ shall come and claim His own,
	And mid his Saints erect that throne
		Which on the earth must stand.
			All hail that glorious day!
			The shadows melt away;
				The skies are bright,
				Soon truth and right,
	Shall come to earth from Zion's light,
			And man redeemed at last shall shine,
			Our Father’s image, all divine. 

	APOSTLE FRANCIS M. LYMAN
said: Six months ago—it was last October—
President Woodruff expressed, in a council of the
Presidency of the Church and the presiding
authorities of the Stakes and wards, that he de-
sired to live to see the dedication of this Temple.
It was the feeling in the hearts of the brethren
present that an effort should be made to accom-
plish that work. Next April it will be just forty
years from the time of the laying of the corner-
stones of this Temple, and I have a resolution to
offer to assembled Israel today which embraces
the ground covered by a resolution suggested by
our Brother, Willard Young:

		RESOLUTION.
	Believing that the instructions of President
Woodruff, respecting the early completion of the
Salt Lake Temple, is the word of the Lord unto
us, I propose that this assemblage pledge them-
selves, collectively and individually, to furnish
as fast as it may be needed, all the money that
may be required to complete the Temple at the
earliest time possible, so that the dedication may
take place on April 6th, 1893.
	Brother Lyman then stated that he would head
a subscription list with a donation of one thousand
dollars to aid in the attainment of the object ex-
pressed in the resolution. The resolution was
voted upon unanimously.
	Music by the band.
	Closing anthem by the Tabernacle choir—
"Song of the Redeemed," composed by Evan
Stephens.
		BENEDICTION.
	President George Q. Cannon then pronounced
the benediction as follows:
	"O God, our Eternal Father, accept all our pro-
ceedings this day. Let Thy blessing descend
upon this people and upon all that we have done,
and grant that the Holy Ghost may rest down
upon every one of us, and upon all the honest in
heart everywhere. Bless this entire people from

[Column 3]

north to south and from east to west, and the
honest in heart throughout the earth, which we
ask in the name of Jesus, beseeching Thee to dis-
miss us with Thy peace, in His name. Amen.
	Conference was declared adjourned for six
months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"A DICTIONARY of the Book of Mormon" by
Elder George Reynolds, is one of the most useful
new books brought out for some time. It is a fact
that of late years there has been a greater interest
manifested, by our young people particularly, in
the Book of Mormon, and this Dictionary will be
very helpful in the study of the history or record
of the former inhabitants of this country. It con-
tains the names of persons of importance men-
tioned in the Book of Mormon, together with much
other interesting matter in detail, and cannot fail
in accomplishing great good for those who are
desirous of obtaining a more thorough and com-
prehensive knowledge of the Latter-day work
established in the last dispensation by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. This book makes plain some sub-
jects that in reading one might not comprehend so
clearly. It is also a reference book for students
of theological matters. For sale at Parry's book
store, price $1.25.
	We have received from the author, Col. Juan
Lewis, a handsomely bound copy of his "Poems."
—The full title "The Forging of the Sword and
Other Poems by Juan Lewis, Illustrated by
Charles Bradford Hudson." As a whole it is a
dainty volume, quite original in make up and the
poems are some of them quaint and idealistic;
others are strong and deep, and the love poems
are quite emotional, and tender in the extreme.
There is considerable variety in the book which
always makes poetry more entertaining, than
when there is a sort of sameness, as is often the
case. The book throughout gives one a very
good idea of the author, of his originality and
sentiment, his love of domestic enjoyment and
his enthusiastic devotion to his country. Col.
Lewis has been a newspaper, as well as an army
man and is therefore well acquainted with diver-
sification in life. He has written some interesting
serial stories, and a novel quite highly praised
entitled, "Trust Her Not." In journalism his
style is brief, sharp and crisp, in fact one may say
he has the modern style of dealing with matters
and things, and is wide awake on political ques-
tions. Price of the book, Cloth in all colors (full
gilt) $2.00—Leather (all gilt) $4.00.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	[From the Record of the Relief Society kept in
Nauvoo, Ill.] These remarks were made by
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, (deceased) at a meet-
ing of the Relief Society May 27, 1842.
	"In the beginning God created man, male and
female, and bestowed upon man certain blessings
peculiar to a man of God, of which woman par-
took, so that without the woman all things cannot
be restored to the earth. It takes all to fully re-
store the Priesthood. This perfect restoration is
the intent of the society, that by humility and
faithfulness, in connection with their husbands,
they may be found worthy.
	"I rejoice while contemplating the blessings
which will be poured out on the heads of the
Saints. God has many precious things to bestow,
even to our astonishment, if we are faithful. I
say again I rejoice in the prospect before us. By
striving for union one with another, we may be
prepared for the day of choosing. Man will not
choose, but God will say who is and who is not
worthy. We must humble ourselves and live by
he rule given for practice—we must lose sight of


vain things and remember that the eye of God is
upon us. If we are striving to do right, although
we may err in judgement many times, yet we are
justified in the sight of God if we do the best we
can according to our judgement. We cannot go
astray if we will strive with all the energy of our
souls to do right. I rejoice that God has given us
means whereby we may receive intelligence and
instruction. It is our privilege to stand in an at-
titude to get testimony for ourselves. It is as
much our privilege as that of the ancient Saints.
We must "prove all things and hold fast that
which is good." It is our duty to humble our-
selves—it is our most reasonable service to do it.
We must proceed to receive grace for grace,
light and intelligence. If we have intelligence we
have power—intelligence is power. I desire all
evil things may be done away. But as far as
possible throw the vail of charity over failings.
When we see one out of the way, we ought in
humility to go and counsel—and strive to bring
back those who have strayed. We must do as we
would wish to be done by; this is the way to win
souls, and bring them back. Far be it from me
to harbor iniquity, and outbreaking sins. We
may have different views of things. Still there is
some criterion which all may come to and by
bringing our minds and wills into subjection to
the law of the Lord may come to a unity.
	It is impossible while finding fault with one
another to be united. Would to God I had power
to bridle my tongue, I am too apt to make re-
marks; have decided to set a double watch on my
tongue and not offend one of the little ones. I
wish nobody harm; wish it were in my power to
save all within the reach of mercy. Some may
say I have not been so faithful as I might have
been, or my voice would oftener have been heard
in the congregations of the Saints, but I rejoice
in God that all is as well with me as it is. I as-
sure you there are great blessings before you that
would astonish you if you could behold them. I
came here for the purpose of listening to Presi-
dent Smith and being instructed by him.
	"I wish to encourage you to persevere in the
ways of righteousness. There are great blessings
to be conferred as soon as our hearts are pre-
pared to receive them. You have my heart's de-
sire for the prosperity of the Society and I pray
my Heavenly Father that you may go on and
glorify your position."
			S. M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
BENEFITS OF THE CLUB.

	Mrs. President and ladies.—As my thoughts
seem to dwell more particularly on the benefits 
of Club meetings, I will quote a few sayings from
one much wiser than I, which are strictly in ac-
cord with my own sentiments.  You very likely
have heard them before, but it will do no harm to
have them repeated.
	SKETCHES FROM THE "CLUB BOOK.
	"A Club takes off the sharp edges.—Women in
their comparatively solitary lives—solitary as re-
gards each other—I mean, where each one has
been mistress of her own little kingdom, evolving
and administering her own laws—have naturally
grown in individual ways, all angles and sharp
corners.  When a number of them met in society
they were like a collection of roughly hewn stone,
all shapes and sizes, every moment (to continue
to figure) they were ground against each other, 
and each was wounded by the angularity of her
neighbor, the result was a lack of harmony, that
gave a color of truth to some of the most offensive
“sayings” about women.
	The Club is the power that quietly but surely
polishes off these rough edges, and tones down
the corners, ’til women are like the pebbles on
the beach, all rounded and smoothed, while each
[-]etains its own color and texture, its individuality

[Column 2]
in fact, yet the whole may be tossed hither and
thither by the rude winds of life, without friction
and without injury to any.
   Club arrangements will help to take out the
conceit of one’s special importance.”
   When I think of how few such privileges as we
are enjoying tonight, our mothers ever enjoyed, I
pity them from my heart, and wonder how, amid
the continual strain upon their nerves, and the
work and anxiety they constantly endured with
so little recreation, they could ever be cheerful at
all, to say nothing of real happiness, yet I know
from the remembrance I have of many of them, 
that they could smile and sing too. ’Tis no
wonder that they were somewhat sterotyped and
superstitious in some things.
 	I heard a prominent man say, not long ago,
that he wanted to testify, from his own experience
that getting out to meetings and clubs, enlarged
and broadened the ideas, gave tone and vitality
to body and mind, making women better, and
more faithful wives and mothers, that instead of
their work being left undone, it was done in a
better and more intelligent manner.  He said
getting out of the old rut they were wont to live
in, brightened them up and gave them new ideas
of life, that after such meetings they come home
with cheerful spirits, with a better understanding
of the duties of life.
	The young women of today ought to qualify
themselves to do more good in the world than it
was possible for their mothers to do, for the
barriers that imprisoned the latter are being
broken down and removed one by one, so that all
the advantages woman is capable of using are be-
ing and will be given to her, and she will be left
without an excuse if she does not improve all the
talents God has given her, however, in connection
with these great advantages, she needs almost
supreme wisdom to guide her that she may not
overlook the mightier matters and attend to the
lighter ones.  There are so many seeming duties
staring her in the face, that she is wise indeed, 
who can properly discriminate between them and
give attention to the most necessary ones first.
Every true woman understands that the duties of
home come first of all, but aside from these there
is very much she can do to bless herself and
humanity at large. Through going abroad and
mingling with her sisters, she will learn this fact
along with many other important truths not to be
learned in seclusion from society, hence I think
we are not apt to appreciate too highly this im-
portant factor in the higher education of woman.
	M. A. FREEZE.


R. S.,Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPOTS.

ST. JOHN'S P. A.
	Semi-annual Conference of the Primary As-
sociations of the St. John’s Stake, held March
5, 1892. Present of the Stake Presidency,
President E. B. Coleman, Coun. Anna Wohr,
and Sec. Nancy S. Noble.
	Pres. E. B. Coleman presiding.  After the
opening exercises the Central Board, Stake
and Local officers were unanimously sustained
by the conference. After which songs, recita-
tions etc., were recited by the children.  Re-
ports of the various associations were then
read.
	Sister Mary E. Farr encouraged the chil-
dren to honor father and mother and attend
their prayers.
	Pres. Coleman wished to have the Primary
teachers obtain charts as soon as possible, as
it would benefit the children greatly.
	Coun. Anna Mohr and Nancy S. Noble en-
couraged the children to do right.
	Pres. David K. Udall made some excellent
remarks.


Singing by the Primary children. Benedic- 
tion by E. A. Noble.
	NANCY S. NOBLE, Sec.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

		SOUTH BOUNTIFTL.
	At a meeting held in South Bountiful,
Davis Co., Utah, Feb. 11, 1892, a Woman
Suffrage Association was organized as follows:
Pres. Lucy A. Clark of Farmington was
chosen Chairman, Mary Ann Page appointed
Sec’y. pro tem.  After singing and prayer Mrs.
Dye of Salt Lake City addressed the assembly
stating the nature and object of the meeting.
	Adela W. Eardley and Margaret A. Caine,
also of Salt Lake City, gave further instruc-
tions. Mary Clark and Mrs. Stringam of
Farmington spoke encouragingly, giving some
forcible arguments in favor of woman suf-
frage.  Wm. Page of South Bountiful thought
the movement a good one, and also that, what
the ladies of Farmington had done, the ladies
of South Bountiful could also accomplish.
Samuel Howard of South Bountiful was will-
ing that his wife should stand side by side with
him in ‘‘equal rights.” G. W. Crocheron united
in good wishes for the success of the organiza-
tion. Charlotte Atkinson made her first
political address.  The organization was then
effected as follows:
	Pres. Sarah A. Howard, First Vice Pres.
Charlotte Atkinson; Sec. Vice Pres. Rose Ellen
Hatch; Third Vice Pres. Maria Hatch; Sec'y.
Lizzie Hatch Cor. Sec’y. Zina E. Crocheron
Chairman of Ex. Committee, Mary Ann Page,
members of Ex. Com., Louie Johnson, Jane
A. Hatch, Eliza Melson, Emma Moss; Treas.
Sarah A. Atkinson.
	Ten members then enrolled their names, six
ladies and four gentlemen besides the officers
making 22 members in all.
	MARY A. PAGE, Sec’y. pro tem.


BIRTHDAY PARTIES.

PERSIS S. RICHARDS.
DEAR SISTER:
	On the 15th of March. 1892 by invitation of
Sister H. Y. Brown I went to her house and
met other sisters there in honor of the birthday
of her mother, Sister Persis S. Richards, who
reached the ripe age of eighty-six years.
Though feeble in body she has a strong will,
and is very industrious; a great lover of plants
and flowers and at the present time they afford
her much pleasure in tending and caring for
them.
	She is conversant upon subjects of interest
abroad; and takes pains to read the important
changes taking place among the people she
identified herself with in the early days of the
Church. She often speaks of her early asso-
ciations with Sister E. R. Snow, Presendia
L. Kimball and Zina D. H. Young. The 
letters she has received from them of late years
are most precious to her.
	Not being able to meet with us to celebrate
the 17th of March, she wrote a few sentiments
and testified to the divinity of the mission of
the Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was 
personally acquainted.
	She has endeared herself to me through that
sisterly love which characterizes the true
Saint. I write these few lines as a tribute of the 
retpect to her. If you deem proper to record 
them in the EXPONENT it will oblige more 
than one of us.
	With kindest regards yours truly,
	HARRIET D. BUNTING.
Kanab, March 26, 1892.	
	RACHEL WHIPPLE.
On the 10th day of March was our beloved


President’s birthday, Sister Rachel Whipple,
she having held the office of 1st. Counselor
nine years and President fifteen years. She
was seventy-five years old, and has been ever
faithful in the discharge of her duties. We
met at two o’clock at the residence of Sister
Elizabeth Nebeker,. Meeting was opened with
singing and prayer, after which each of the
sisters bore testimony to her faithfulness and
the joy and happiness they had in being co-
laborers with each other in the Society.
	Counselors Jeremy and Nebeker met with
us and gave us good advice and encourage-
ment, also spoke of the respect and good feel-
ing they had for Pres. Whipple. Meeting then
closed with singing and prayer. The company
then sat down to a bounteous supper which
had been prepared by the teachers and friends.
We spent the evening in pleasant conversation
and was favored with some fine selections on
the piano by Miss Vilate Nebeker. We all
went home feeling we had spent a very
pleasant and profitable afternoon.
	A. Ridges, Sec. 22nd Ward.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
JULIA A. ALLRED.
				—
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
	There appeared in a late issue of the Deseret
News a notice of the death of Sister Julia A.
Allred.  Now feeling that her long standing
in the Church, and the fact that she was a
member in Nauvoo of the first Relief Society
organized in the Church under the supervission
of the Prophet Joseph, and the firm stand she
has always maintained under trying circum-
stances, in defence of the truth, requires that
something more be said of her.  I ask space
to communicate a few incidents of her useful
although somewhat retired life.
	She was born in the town of Henderson,
Jefferson County, New York, on the 7th day
of February 1829. Her father’s family em-
braced the Gospel in the early rise of the
Church, and Elder Orson Pratt married her
eldest sister, the late Sarah M. Pratt.  She
went to Nauvoo in the year 1843 and on the
21st of December of that year she was married
[-]o Reddin A. Allred.
	She, with her husband received their en-
[--]wments and were sealed in the Nauvoo
Temple, and left Nauvoo early in the spring
of 1846, and came up with the advance camp
of Israel at Pisgah.  In the fall of 1851 she
went to Utah and the family located in Kays-
ward, Davis Co.
	In October 1852 her husband started on a
mission to the Sandwich Islands.  He was ab-
sent over three years, and none but those who
have passed through like experiences know
any thing about the hardships through which
she with her little ones passed in those long
years for the Gospel’s sake.
	I will here give a few lines of poetry that
her husband sent home to her while absent on
that mission; which she prized very highly.

		On the shore of the great Pacific sea,
		At times in silence I roam;
		While the sound of the mighty water's roar 
		As they beat upon the rocky shore
		And I think of my far-off home.
		The inmate of my little cot,
		They make it a lovely home;
		And were I free from laboring here,
		I would haste to those I love so dear
		In my Rocky Mountain home.

		One moment alone I dare not reflect
		On scenes so lovely to me,
		Lest darkness enshroud me and despair
		Cause me to neglect the truth I bear
		To nations amid the sea.
		Then first of all is the Kingdom of God,
		And things pertaining thereto:
		There joys eternally will remain,

[Column 2]
		We’ll be rewarded for all our pain,
		For God is faithful and true.

		Then I am resigned and gladly too,
		To dwell with strangers afar;
		As I have received so freely I give 
		That all who will for ever may live,
		And shine like the morning star.
		But oh! the deceitfulness of man,
		How few that glory will obtain.
		May we be remembered among that few
		Oh! keep this object ever in view,
		God bless you till we meet again.

	In the fall of 1879, with the family she went
to Arizona. She frequently talked about go-
ing back to the Temple to perform the work
for the Bates family, as she was the only liv-
ing female of the family who had a standing in
the Church. She was the mother of thirteen
children, and had twenty-two grandchildren.
	Her departure was very sudden, caused as
is supposed from heart failure.  She had not
been well for some time past, but was able to
be up most of the time and attend to her
household duties.  On the 5th inst about five
o’clock p. m., she was taken with a smother-
ing sensation apparently with no pain except
for the want of breath.  And in fifteen
minutes she expired, without being able to
communicate anything to us,—at the age of
68 years and 27 days.
	The funeral services were held in the
Thatcher meeting house on the 7th inst.
Patriarch P. C. Merrill, delivered a discourse
full of comforting words; and after a few
timely remarks by Presidents Layton and
Johnson, the remains were followed to their
last resting place by the sorrowing family and
a long concourse of friends.
	P. C. Merrill made the Dedicatory pray[--].
							  COM.
	Thatcher, Graham Co., Arizona, March 23,
I892.


APPRECIATION.
			———
	I wonder if any of us realize the amount of
good accomplished by the women of Utah,
organized into a society for the aid of the poor
and suffering.
	If, by any means, we could ascertain the
moneyed value of the food and clothing dis-
tributed to the poor for the past 25 years; and
if to this we add the number of hours devoted
to charity, we can readily see there would be
an immense credit opposite the names of these
silent workers.
	Suppose the country were to be deprived of
this society of benevolence, and each one of
us required to furnish his or her quota of time
and money for the benefit of the needy and
helpless; we would then become cognizant of
their merits.
	People in general view their efforts with in-
difference probably because of their lack of
publicity.
	These ladies to whom reference is made do
not pose as martyrs or heroines.
	They do good cheerfully without expectation
of rewards, quite satisfied if they have the
sympathy of those with whom they associate
and the approbation of their Maker.
	Unassuming in manner they seem uncon-
scious of the sacrifices they are daily making
for the welfare of others. Indeed I believe
there is more real heroism in the life of one of
our dear old mothers, than that of Alexander
or Napoleon. She does not seek the applause
of the world, but aims rather to be a follower
of the lowly Jesus; for was not His whole life
spent in doing good, healing the sick and com-
forting the sad? Neither was He unmindful
of their temporal wants, for we read that he
furnished loaves and fishes for the multitude.
The same condition of things exists now as in
the time of Christ. We can easily believe


there are as many Martha's as Mary's. Let us
who are not directly engaged in this charitable
work, be more just than the troubled house-
wife of olden time who administered reproof to
her sister when praise was deservedly earned.
					Nellie Little.


WORLD’S FAIR NOTES.
				———
	Denmark has made a World’s Fair appro-
priation of $67,000.
	More than 180 exhibitors are chronicled
from Philadelphia alone.
	A $6,000 monument of Barre granite will
be one of the exhibits from Vermont.
	New York has made a World’s Fair appro-
priation of $300,000.
	Saginaw, Mich., noted as a salt producing
city, is constructing in miniature a complete
salt plant for exhibition at the World’s Fair.
	The cottage in which George Fox, the
founder of the  Society of Friends or Quakers,
was born, in Leicestershire, England, is being
taken down to be re-erected in Chicago.
	The New York Assembly has voted per-
mission for the raising of one or two old sunk-
en vessels in Lake George for the purpose of 
sending them as relics to the Fair.
	Several of the states are having prepared fine
lithographs of the buildings which they will
erect at the World’s Fair, and through the
sale of them are augmenting their amounts
available for building purposes.
	Pope Leo XIII has written a letter strongly
commending the Exposition, which it is be-
lieved will have a most favorable effect in
stimulating interest in the Fair on the part of 
all Catholic countries and communities.
	A feature of Idaho’s Exhibit at the Fair
will be a practical illustration of the system
and benefits of irrigation. A large section of
sage brush soil will be transported to Chicago.
Through this ditches will be run, and trees,
fruits and flowers will be grown in the soil by
the irrigation system. Prospective Idaho set-
tlers are expected to be especially attracted by
this exhibit.
	The “San Francisco Women's California
Book Exhibit for the World’s Fair,” is the 
name of a society recently organized in San
Francisco. The object of the society is to col-
lect a complete library of books by California
writers, files of papers, scrap-books, scattered
papers and sketches worthy of preservation.
These will be taken to Chicago and exhibited
during the Fair. After the Exposition the col-
lection will be given to the Golden Gate Park
Museum.
	The Board of Lady Managers is making
arrangements for an extensive exhibit showing
woman’s share in the illustration of books, in 
engraving and other forms of picture produc-
tion. During her recent visit to New York Mrs.
Palmer consulted with a number of publishers
and received considerable assistance from
them. A list of distinguished woman illustra-
tors was secured and plans set on foot to obtain
old volumes and manuscripts illustrated by
woman, together with historical data concern-
ing woman’s share in this line of work from
ancient times down to the present.
	A circular has been issued by the committee 
of the Indiana Worlds’ Fair commission on ed-
ucation, art, charities and literature calling at-
tention to its work and asking co-operation in
preparing a creditable representation of the lit-
erary status of Indiana. The committee states
that it desires a tabulated list of authors and 
their works arranged in chronological order,


so as to present the literary devolopment of the
State from the time of its organization; a tab-
ulated list of Indiana journalists and journals,
including religious and secular publications;
a complete collection of books of reputable
character written by natives or citizens of
Indiana; all books written about Indiana, its
resources and people; a complete collection of
photographs of Indiana’s authors and journal-
ists, and photographs representing the homes
of such authors, and a collection of photo-
graphs of club houses and the interiors of club-
rooms.


152						WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	An Athens, Georgia, prophet, says we are to
have a wonderful crop this year, but for the
next three years, there will be the most dis-
astrous famine known.
	In South Australia, women are made eli-
gible for election as members of what are call-
ed Boards of Advise, similar to School Boards.
At the recent election both candidates declared
for women suffrage. The successful candidate
is a member of the labor party, which has
avowed for equal suffrage.
	Judge Caldwell, of the Eighth United States
Circuit, has again appointed a woman to the
position of clerk of the United States Circuit
Court. Miss Adelaide Utter has been deputy
at Kansas City for several years and now on
the death of the clerk, Mr. Walton, is appoint-
ed, to the responsible position.
	THERE is a community in the vicinity of
Dublin, Georgia, that lately whipped severely
three bad women that were in their midst.
Some pertinent questions might be asked.
How does anybody know they are bad women?
What and who made them bad? Do they whip
bad men there? Could these women-whippers
stand the test applied by Jesus, "Let him that
is without sin cast the first stone?"--Ex.

   The Woman's World of New Orleans,
Louisiana, is taking an enforced recess because
of the burning of the plant in the great Canal
Street fire in February. The editor, Miss M.
A. E. Farwell, has been a severe sufferer from
illness, but hopes to have her paper out this
month. It is her main object to help the work-
ing women to more equal wages, and it should
be cordially supported. A little help just now
will be doubly valuable as an encouraging
offset to many difficulties.--Ex. 

   The beautiful crayon portrait of Rev. Anna
Shaw, made by Lillian Moore Candlin, form-
erly of Nebraska,but now of Wilmette, Ill.,and
presented by the Nebraska Woman Suffrage
Association to the Wimodaughsis Fair was not
sold on that occasion, but was afterwards pur-
chased by Mrs. Colby, President of the Ne-
braska W. S. A., to be given on behalf of the
Association to the National American W. S. A. 
of which Miss Shaw is the Vice-president. It
will hereafter adorn the walls of the Suffrage
Parlors at 1428. I St.
	While discussing the appointment of Army
Officers as Indian Agents, Senator Hawley
made the following statements:
   "Under this arrangement you would not
have the services of a multitude of good wom-
en from among the best women in the whole
United States. I think I heard the other day
some one remark rather slightingly of them.
The best women of the United States have
associated themselves with this matter. They
are sentimental, if you choose, and religiously
sentimental, but they do know something about
their business, for many of them have lived
among the Indians and dealt with them, and
they show a practical wisdom in the manner
in which they deal with them."

[Column 2]
   Some one of the papers, in referring to
Colonel Ingersoll's remarks at the Carpenter
banquet last week, made him say that he would
rather go to eternal torment with the woman
he loved than to heaven if women were not
there. This immensely delighted a certain
young woman, who soon after took occasion to
tell him so.
	The colonel heard her through smilingly
and then said,"Yes, yes, very nice, only I
didn't say it." This was a blow, but his eyes
twinkled, so she asked him what he had said.
	He took up a pen and wrote for a mo-
ment in silence, handed her the paper and said:
"There now how does that please you?" This
was what he had written: "According to the
theologians woman brought all the trouble into
the world. If this is true, then I had rather
live with the woman I love in a world full of
trouble than to live in heaven with nobody but
men." And the woman liked it better, ever
so much.—New York Press.


WOMEN'S NEWS.

	On Monday March 28th at Union Square
Hall the ladies of the W. P. A. assembled to 
listen to one of the  most entertaining pro-
grammes of the series, there was music and 
reading of papers. During a short recess light 
refreshments were served, Mrs. James Neal
interested her listeners with the reading of a 
paper on Mrs. H. A. A. Beach who has com-
posed a Mass for the famous Handel and
Hayden society of Boston. Mrs. Beach has the
unique distinction of being the only lady who
has ever produced such a musical composition;
that it has worth is evidenced by its accep-
tation by this great organization. The pleas-
ant meeting closed till the next social, Apr.
11th. Some of the interesting numbers on
the programme were as follows: Vocal Duet
Mrs. Newlett and Miss Morse;Song, "A Rainy
Day" Miss Morse; An original Poem Mrs M.
R. Johnson.
						ALMA ALDEN
	San Fraucisco, Cal.


OBITUARIES.

	Died. — At her late residence on Sunday Feb. 21, 1892,
Jane Bate, wife of Herbert Bate.
	The deceased was the daughter of Jane D. and William 
Shelley.  She was born in American Fork, Jan. 8, 1856,
and was married to Herbert Bate in Salt Lake City on the 
31, day of July 1871.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Whereas in view of the loss we have sustained by the de-
cease of our friend and associate Jane Bate, and of the 
still greater loss sustained by those who were nearest and 
dearest to her, therefore be it
	Resolved, that it is a just tribute to the memory of the 
departed, to say that in regretting her removal from our
midst, we mourn for one who was in every way worthy of 
our respect and regard.
	Resolved that we sincerely condole with the family of
the deceased, on the dispensation with which it has pleased
Divine Providence to afflict them and commend them for
consolation, to Him who orders all things for the best; and
whose chastisements are meant in mercy.
	Resolved that this heartfelt testimonial of our sympathy
and sorrow be forwarded to the orphan children (their
father having been suddenly struck with death six days
later) of our departed friend.  Also to be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT of Salt Lake city, and in the
American Fork Independent and that the same be placed 
on the records of the Woman Suffrage Association.
	EMILY HEPERNICK,
	ROSA BOURNE,
	ELIZA BUCKWALTER.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

[Column 2]
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

[RIO GRANDE logo]
The Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT, 
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

