VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1891.		NO. 12.


CONTENTS.

	The Poet's Ideal Woman—J. A. MacDonald.
Interesting Letter—Mary S. Burnham. Emily
Hamilton's Christmas,—A Story Notes and
News.
	EDITORIAL:—Christmas Time. "A Green
Tea" Party. Christmas Display. Utah Woman's
Press Club. 
	POETRY:—Trusting—L. M. H. The Mother's
Reverie Christmas Night — Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. The End of the Play—William
Makepeace Thackeray. Christmas Hymn—C.
L. W. Perfect Trust—E. T. Christmas Eve—
E. B. W.


TRUSTING.

We may not see that mystic path,
	That is marked for us to tread,
There may be trials rough and dark,
 	Thro' which we must pass with dread.
It may prove hard for us to say,
	"Not my will but Thine be done,"
And bow submissive to His sway,
	Striving still to overcome.
With living faith and courage strong,
	Leaning on that gracious word,
Which bade the raging seas be calm,
	Moving onward undisturbed?
Although the way be veiled from sight
	Hidden from our human view,
We'll follow, seeking for the light,
	Trusting all life's journey thro'.
			L. M. H.
Atchison, Kan.


THE MOTHER'S REVERIE CHRISTMAS
NIGHT.

Softly the shadows fall, softly the home-lights glow,
Folding the earth in white, falleth the fairy snow;
Voices of gladness float by on the air,
Hearts full of happiness sing everywhere;
Yet, though the throngs pass by, yet though the loved are
	near,
Sadness, steals to my side—Dearest thou art not here.

Say, where thou art, afar, cometh no thought to thee
Drawing thy footsteps near, where once they used to be?
Around us, amid us, though viewless to sight
Art thou not with us this holiest Night?
Come, by the Father's love, come by His mercy free,
Alone 'mid the joy and song, Dearest, I wait for thee.

Come through the shades of night, come thro' the whisper-
	ing snow.
Hearts full of gladness heed not, only mine own shall
	know.
Come with thy dark eyes to answer mine own,
Speak with the voice that was melody's tone;
Come when the silence falls, where I in loneliness weep,
Come, and thy love-lit smile, Dearest, shall bring me sleep.

Come to me in my dreams ere even the daylight breaks,
Only tonight, beloved, close to the heart that wakes.
Bring me the calm of that holier place
In the pure spell of thy heaven-born grace;
Come, that my soul may learn faithful and strong to be,
Tonight, in a world of joy—Dearest, I wait for thee.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
	  
THE END OF THE PLAY.

The play is done—the curtain drops,
	Slow falling to the prompters bell;

[Column 2]

A moment yet the actor stops,
	And looks around, to say farewell.
It is an irksome word and task;
	And, when he's laughed and said his say
He shows, as he removes the mask
	A face that's anything but gay—

One word, ere yet the evening ends
	Let's close it with a parting rhyme;
And pledge a hand to all young friends,
	As fits the merry Christmas time;
In life's wide scene you, too have parts,
	That fate ere long shall bid you play;
Good-night—with honest gentle hearts
	A kindly greeting go alway!

Good-night!—I'd say the griefs, the joys,
	Just hinted in this mimic page
The triumphs and defeats of boys,
	Are but repeated in our age;
I'd say your woes were not less keen,
	Your hopes more vain, than those of men—
Your pangs or pleasures of fifteen
	At forty-five played o'er again.

I'd say we suffer and we strive
	Not less nor more as men than boys—
With grizzled beards at forty-five
	As erst at twelve in corduroys;
And if in time of sacred youth,
	We learned at home to love and pray,
Pray heaven that early love and truth
	May never wholly pass away.

And in the world, as in the school,
	I'd say how fate may change and shift—
The prize be sometimes with the fool,
	The race not always to the swift;
The strong may yield, the good may fall,
	The great man be a vulgar clown,
The knave be lifted over all,
	The kind cast pitilessly down.

Who knows the inscrutable design?
	Blessed be He who took and gave!
Why should your mother, Charles, not mine,
	Be weeping at her darling's grave?
We bow to heaven that willed it so
	That darkly rules the fate of all
That sends the respite or the blow,
	That’s free to give or to recall.

This crowns his feast with wine and wit—
	Who brought him to that mirth and state?
His betters, see, below him sit,
	Or hunger helpless at the gate.
Who bade the mud from Dives' wheel
	To spurn the rags of Lazarus?
Come, brother, in that dust we'll kneel,
	Confessing heaven that ruled it thus.

So each shall mourn, in life's advance,
	Dear hopes, dear friends, untimely killed—
Shall grieve for many a forfeit chance,
	And longing passion unfulfilled.
Amen!—whatever fate be sent,
	Pray God the heart may kindly glow,
Although the head with cares be bent,
	And whitened with the winter snow.

Come wealth or want, come good or ill,
	Let young and old accept their part,
And bow before the awful will
	And bear it with an honest heart.
Who misses or who wins the prize—
	Go, lose or conquer as you can;
But if you fail, or if you rise,
	Be each, pray God, a gentleman.

A gentleman, or old or young!
	(Bear kindly with my humble lays;)
The sacred chorus first was sung
	Upon the first of Christmas days;

[Column 3]

The shepherds heard it overhead—
	The joyful angels raised it then:
Glory to heaven on high, it said,
	And peace on earth to gentle men!

My song, save this, is little worth;
	I lay the weary pen aside,
And wish you health, and love, and mirth,
	As fits the solemn Christmas-tide,
As fits the holy Christmas birth
	Be this, good friends, our carol still—
Be peace on earth, be peace on earth,
	To men of gentle will.

		WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY.


THE POET'S IDEAL WOMAN.

	The woman of the poet may be said to be
an index to the character of the man; his con-
ception of her worth and relative station mark-
ing him as generous and high minded, or con-
ceited and with a soul of narrow and cramped
calibre. She is also not so entirely an ideal,
but that to a certain degree, she is an exponent
of the time in which the poet lives, as of the
period which he seeks to represent. Those
ages and nations who have raised woman to
the highest pinnacle of importance have al-
ways attained to the greatest mental and moral
excellence; while those who have given her but
a menial or in any way inferior position have
remained correspondingly low in the scale of
intelligence and progression.
	In taking our review of the poet's ideal
woman, we will begin with the grand old
Hebrew writer, Solomon; a man of peace, de-
voted to the interests of literature, art, and all
the refining qualities of a highly civilized so-
ciety, devoted too, if the number and variety
of his female associates be taken as a guide to
the charms peculiar to our sex. In his last
Chapter of Proverbs, he gives us a most strik-
ing picture of his ideal woman. As no words
of mine could be half so telling in their sim-
plicity and power as his own, I shall quote
him verbatim, even at the risk of being con-
sidered prosy by those who are perhaps
familiar with his words.
	Beginning with that which is a woman's life,
he says:—
	"Who can find a virtuous woman for her
price is far above rubies?
	The heart of her husband doth safely trust
in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.
	She will do him good, and not evil, all the
days of her life."
	Leaving this he turns to her industrial 
qualities:
	"She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh
willingly with her hands.
	She is like the merchants ships she bringeth
her food from afar.
	She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth
meat to her household, and a portion to her
maidens."
	Of her business ability he makes mention.
	"She considered a field, and buyeth it;
with the fruit of her hands she planteth a
vineyard.
	She girdeth her loins with strength, and
strengtheneth her arms.
	She perceiveth that her merchandise is good;
her candle goeth not out by night.
	She layeth her hands to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff."


[Column 1]

	He forgets not charity, that characteristic
so essential in either sex.
	"She stretcheth out her hand to the poor;
yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
	She is not afraid of the snow for her house-
hold; for all her household are clothed with
scarlet."
	She is not without pride of her good looks
for he tells us—
	She maketh herself coverings of tapestry;
her clothing is silk and purple."
	The same rule must hold good as to her
family, for—
	Her husband is known in the gates, when
he sitteth among the elders of the land.
	She maketh fine linen, and selleth it, and
delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
	Strength and honor are her clothing, and
she shall rejoice in time to come."
	Among the best of her qualities are these:—
	"She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and
in her tongue is the law of kindness.
	She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness."
	Happily for her, she receives the meed of
appreciation, for—
	"Her children arise up and call her blessed;
her husband also, and he praiseth her.
	Many daughters have done virtuously, but
thou excellest them all.
	Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but
a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be
praised.
	Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let
her own works praise her in the gates."
	From this picture of industry, frugality, and
piety, if we take a stride to the early Greek
maids and matrons, we will perhaps find less
of domestic industry, but more of blind de-
votion to the opposite sex.
	Honor and virtue are still highly eulogized
but while man is gradually assuming the hero
and protector, woman is losing the heroic,
and sinking to the level of a dependent, or
rather a choice bit of property, to beguarded,
shielded with jealous care, but not to be ad-
mitted to his confidence or counsels as an
equal. Helen of Troy would perhaps be as
good a representative of this type of woman
as has been handed down to us, were it not for
the fact of her domestic perfidy.
	Homer gives us however in a few succinct
words, the status of woman in those days,

	"What calls for vengeance but a woman's cause?
	Are fair endowments and a beauteous face
	Beloved by none but those of Atreus' race?
	The wife whom choice and passion doth approve,
	Sure every wise and worthy man doth love.’"

	The bard of Avon in his magnificent char-
acter of Portia, gives us a striking picture of
the higher Roman woman.
	High-minded as evinced by such thoughts
as these:
	"If to do were as easy as to know what were
good to do, chapels had been churches, and
poor men's cottages princes' palaces. It is a
good divine that follows his own instructions;
I can easier teach twenty what were good to be
done, than be one of the twenty to follow mine
own teaching."
	Obedient where she felt it due, as is shown
by the following:—
	"If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die
as chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the
manner of my father's will."
	Honorable where she says to him who holds
her heart's best feelings:
	"I could teach you how to choose right, but
I am then forsworn; so will I never be."
	Tender and yielding enough under circum-
stances calling for the exhibition of those
qualities, yet strong to do and dare when neces-
sity demands as is shown in the trial scene.

[Column 2]

	Of all the heroines of the poets methinks
Portia approaches the nearest to the ideal
woman of our own time and race.
	Tennyson has given us a number of views of
the woman of feudal times, yet they do not ap-
proach the high mental and moral standard of
a Portia. Again they are found occupying
the position of the choice bit of property, with
their individuality entirely absorbed in that
of their husbands.
	In the early history of our own America,
the standard of woman again approaches that
of the patriarchal age portrayed by Solomon.
Longfellow of all American poets the peer, has
much to say about woman.
	One of his most familiar and characteristic
thoughts being that which occurs in his Hia-
watha:

	"As unto the bow the cord is,
	So unto the man is woman,
	Though she bends him, she obey him.
	Though she draws him, yet she follows.
	Useless each without the other.

	The following description of Priscilla the
Puritan Maiden, in his Courtship of Miles
Standish, brings forcibly to our minds the
thrifty ideal of Solomon:

"Then, as he opened the door, he beheld the form of the
	maiden,
Seated beside her wheel, and the carded wool like a snow-
	drift
Piled at her knee, her white hands feeding the ravenous
	spindle;
While with her foot on the treadle, she guided the wheel
	in its motion.

Making the humble house and the modest apparel of home-
	spun
Beautiful with her beauty, and rich with the wealth of her
	being."

	A heroine of a little different order yet still
partaking of the biblical character is Evange-
line.

"Fair was she to behold, that maiden of seventeen sum-
	mers.
Black were her eyes as the berry that grows on the thorn
	by the wayside.
Black, yet how softly they gleamed, beneath the brown
	shade of her tresses!
Sweet was her breath as the breath of kine that feed in the
	meadows.
When in the harvest heat she bore to the reapers at noon-
	tide
Flagons of home-brewed ale, ah! fair in sooth was the
	maiden,
Fairer was she when, on Sunday morn, while the bell from
	the turret
Sprinkled with holy sounds the air, as the priest with his
	hyssop,
Sprinkles the congregation, and scatters blessings upon
	them,
Down the long street she passed, with her chaplet of beads
	and her missal,
Wearing her Norman cap, and her kirtle of blue, and the
	ear-rings,
Brought in olden the time from France, and since, as an
	heirloom
Handed down from mother to child through long genera-
	tions.
But a celestial brightness—a more ethereal beauty—
Shone on her face and encircled her form, when after
	confession,
Homeward serenely she walked, with God's benediction
	upon her,
When she had passed, it seemed like the ceasing of ex-
	quisite music."

	So generally have the poet's written about
woman, that she may almost be called the
"Poets Inspiration," yet to review a hundredth
part of them would be to make an article too
long for an occasion like the present.
	It is for us to assist in raising the standard
of the ideal woman of the future, and then,

[Column 3]

not to leave her simply as an ideal, indefinite
and unapproachable, but to make of her a
living, breathing entity, and ourselves her law-
ful and fitting representatives.
			J. A. MACDONALD.
	Nov. 30th, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING LETTER.

	    New Mexico, 
		     Nov. 30, 1891.
DEAR SISTER:
	I have not forgotten you, nor any of my old
friends in Utah beloved home of childhood;
though my long silence would imply this.
Another year fraught with many blessings,
cares and perplexities has flown. The Summer
and Autumn have been beautiful seasons in-
deed, and though the labor enforced by a rich
fruit crop has been arduous we are very grate-
ful for the tender mercies of an Alwise
Father.
	We have just returned from Mancos, Colo-
rado, where we attended the quarterly confer-
ence. Our spirits were richly fed by the teach-
ings of Apostle Lyman and the Presidency of
the Stake. Surely we all resolved many times
over we would be better men and women than
ever before. God help us one and all to carry
out in our future lives the counsel we there
heard.
	It is a lovely Sabbath day in our quiet home.
The important member of the family has gone
to visit La Platta, the principal part of this
ward and a distance of 14 miles. There are
only three families of our faith at Fruitland,
so meetings are seldom held, yet we have tried
to maintain the Sunday School whenever the
brethren are at home, as we are so few. The
different associations have almost been lost
sight of which all much regret. The sisters
in this little ward have done all they could
and taken an interest in the societies as long
as there was any possibility of keeping them
in working order. We have been led to be-
lieve some of the leading sisters were going to
visit us after the October Conference. We
were much elated and consequently sorely dis-
appointed, but now have settled down to the
inevitable and are as hopefully waiting till
Spring trusting we may not wait in vain.
	Those who are constantly privileged to listen
to the voices of God's authorized servants and
drink in the very spirit of His word can never
fully understand how the soul longs for such
heavenly blessings when for years deprived of
them. Yet we are assured through all that
God will draw very near unto us, if we are
true to him and do we not in such trying
times need his spirit for a constant guide?
	Oh how great would our joy be if we were
not so prone to wander in paths where His
light cannot follow. What is more terrible
than darkness of mind? God pity and help
us my sisters all, to keep above those awful
depths of despair that the unbelieving sink
into.
	We enjoy the papers as much as ever and
trust they may ever flourish. Love and kind
wishes for all our dear sisters in Zion, and
ever praying to be one with you in all good
works, I am as ever your sister,
			MARY S. BURNHAM.


The first Mohammedan woman to take a
degree in medicine lately did so at Odessa.
She expects to practise in Russia.
	A temporary home for messenger girls has
just been opened in Vienna by a company of
charitable women. There is a permanent
teacher, and the cost is not to exceed $2.50 a
week, or less for those who can earn something
in the home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CHRISTMAS HYMN.

While shepherds lay on dewy mead— 
When suddenly, and overhead,
Bright angels sung this joyous strain
"Peace on earth, good will to man.’’
These gracious tidings from on high
Echoed along the star-lit sky!
While shepherds seated on the ground
Beheld the glory all around.
These shining Seraphs said to them,
Behold the Star of Bethlehem!
Yea, where it sheds its glorious rays
Your Savior in a manger lays.
All hail! all hail! the happy morn, 
When Jesus Christ the Lord was born,
Let Heaven and Earth, and Angels sing!
Praises to their Redeeming King.
	C. L. W.


PERFECT TRUST.
Take me! comes in plaintive accents
	From the babe close by my knee,
Wearied Now with toy and plaything 
	Comes she now, for rest, to me.
Never doubting, full well knowing
	I would shield her from all harm,
Mother love is all— so potent— 
	To the babe upon my arm.
Baby hands I know are reaching
	Unto me from Spirit Land,
Friends I love I know are waiting
	Until I shall join their band.
Oft I feel their presence near me
	Bringing solace oft midst pain,
Causing tears but leaving gladness,
	“Like the sunshine after rain.’’
When I plead unto the Father 
	For the strength I sorely need
Surely too The Mother listeth
	To a daughter as she pleads.
And with a perfect woman’s wisdom
	With the power born of right,
In mercy too will heed the daughter
	Struggling here amid the fight.
Though the darkness is appalling, 
	And the tempter's brave and strong,
Oft-times when we would be righteous
	We are tempted to do wrong.
But with heaven’s love above us,
	And with spirit-love beside,
We can hope to reach that haven—
	The perfect trust of a little child.
	E. T.


CHRISTMAS EVE.

On a Christmas Eve in the good old times,
	When the young and the gay were strong and brave,
The Churches pealed forth their musical chimes,
	And the rich of their substance freely gave;
Of their right good cheer and the welkin rang,
With “peace on earth and good will to man."
The castles so grand and the abbeys old,
	Resounded with mirth from night until morn.
And the story of Bethlehem was told,
	How lo! in a manger the babe was born;
Even Christ the Savior, greater than all, 
Who came to redeem mankind from the fall. 
And there gathered around the festive board,
	The great and the noble of many a land,
And they feasted and sung and the music poured,
	In flowing numbers and a measure grand;
And they danced to the rhythm of melody,
	In the halcyon days of chivalry.
Music and jest and laughter and song,
	Filled the ancient halls, and the troubadour
Returned from the wars, would the night prolong
	With his love-lorn tales of a foreign shore,
Of a passion, that absence could not subdue
And the Ladies wept for a love so true.


And often the minstrel who sung so well,
	Was a bold brave knight from the war return’d, 
In this simple disguise his love would tell,
	How while far away he had fondly yearn'd
For a maiden fair, whose colors he wore,
And whose faith, was the shield he proudly bore.
Those were the days of the bold crusaders,
	Who fought like heroes for fame and glory,
And freed their land from wicked invaders,
	Their names are writ in romance and story
How they fought in armor with spear and shield
And the bravest fell on the battle field.
But since that time a change has been wrought
	And men are the bravest who sue for peace,
"Good will" was the message the Savior brought,
 	And the time is coming when wars shall cease;
When the right shall triumph over the wrong,
And the weak confound the brave and the strong
	E. B W.


[Column 1]
EMILY HAMILTON’S CHRISTMAS.

“Tell me my dear mamma, what can we do
this year for Christmas, something new and
odd, I’m so tired of the same humdrum way
of celebrating, with a Christmas tree for the
children, and no amusement except having a
lot of one’s relatives to dinner, whom one
never sees except on special occasions, when
they come to be entertained, with eating and
drinking, and telling the same old stories each
year?”
	“Well Emily are you through, finding fault
with our homely ways? And by the bye, what
would you propose for the children in place of
a Christmas tree?” “O almost anything, a
dancing party for instance, then we young folks
could enjoy it.”
	“But my daughter do you know what it
would take to get up a party, and our circum-
stances this year are only very moderate, and
Frank in college?’
	“O, it wouldn’t be so very expensive, and
Frank will be at home, and we shall want a
change for him.”
	“Frank will be glad to see the children hav-
ing a good time, and he wants rest more than
dissipation, I’m inclined to think from his
letters that he will be quite satisfied with our
common village pastimes, and meeting his old
friends in a social way without any extra ex-
pense; besides Emily, your father is not in the
best health or spirits, money is scarce, and he
objects to any lavish expenditure of means, we
have the little one’s future to think of; remem-
ber what it has cost to give you the advantages
you have had these last two or three years.”
	“But mamma, don’t be always bringing up
what everything costs, it makes me feel un- 
comfortable, I guess papa is just as likely to
make more money; his business is all right,
he’s the richest man in town, everybody knows
that, the girls at school knew well enough that
I could afford to dress differently, and I often
felt as if I would like to tell them, that you
didn’t believe in living up to our income, be- 
cause we had a large family.”
	“Emily,” said the mother, “your father has
been a very careful man, and does not believe
in extravagance, he would not approve of your
manner of speaking of his wealth either, he
never makes any boast of it. I am astonished
that you should mention it in such a way; one
would think you would have more discretion
at your age, I should not like the younger
children especially Bessie to hear you talk as
you are doing now; I can’t understand what
has made you so dissatisfied.”
	Emily sat silently and looked into the fire;
she felt uncomfortable, she was restless and
fancied herself very unhappy, she had only
recently returned from a very popular girls’
seminary, where she had been associated with
young ladies who prided themselves more upon
their personal charms, than their sterling worth,

[Column 2]
and she had heard so much of the style and
elegance of palatial residences in the City that
when she returned to the simple country home
from which she had gone forth so free and
happy, it seemed such a dreary place, and the
people with whom she had been wont to asso-
ciate with their plain apparel, did not look the
same to her, as they had before and it made
her feel almost wicked. The fact was she had
seen the outside glitter and show only, and had
not gone deep enough into the matter to find
that “All is not gold that glitters.”
	Miss Hamilton was young and beautiful,
and life seemed to her a vision of loveliness,
she had been the favored one at home, and the
first and choicest of everything was always
her’s from father and mother and brother, and
even the relatives of whom she had spoken so
slightingly were her admirers generally. Her
grandma “just adored her,” according to her
version of the matter, and now she had come
back so accomplished and they all so proud
of her, yet she was scarce willing to be ami-
able with them. Emily Hamilton like a great
many other young girls imagined she knew
more than her mother and grandmother, who
though very well-meaning had not had the op-
portunities of a higher education, which she
fancied made the difference. This was all a
mistake on her part, for it was not the real
knowledge that had given her these false ideas
of life, but simply the dazzling effect of the
companionship of girls whose home training
had been totally neglected, whose mothers
lived for society and expected their daughters
to make brilliant matches in high life.
	Emily's mother was a very sensible woman,
who loved her home and whose virtues were
of the purest type. She had no idea of the
change in her daughter until after she left
school, or she would have vastly preferred to
have kept her nearer home, where she could
have been under her own influence ana watch-
care.
	Somehow Emily had not the courage to
press the question of a party any further then,
but determined in her own mind to have a
change in the family routine at Christmas time
which was very near. The mother was very
thoughtful after, and she also resolved that she
would speak to her husband the first oppor-
tunity, about Emily, the change in her, and
together perhaps they might make an impres-
sion upon her that would have a good effect.
	When Mr. Hamilton came in as usual to-
wards evening, he noticed that his wife was
not so cheerful as usual and Emily was very
cool; without pretending to have observed it
he asked for some music, or “is the dinner
ready? if so we’ll have a song afterwards, said he
his face beaming with love, as he laid his hand
caressingly upon Emily’s shining hair. It is
so pleasant to have you in your old place again,
I never mean Bessie shall stay away from us
as you have, and there will be no occasion for
it, for you will be able to teach her here at
home.” “But papa, I can’t teach, I have not
qualified myself for teaching.” “O, not in a
school, I don’t mean that exactly, but you’ll
superintend, and help your mother, she has her
hands full with so many.”
Emily scarcely knew what to say, but she
began to feel it was more than she was pre-
pared to undertake. She was thinking of a
winter of pleasure, and herein was discontent,
immediately on her return.
	Dinner was announced and although the
father was unusually cheerful, the conversa-
tion lagged. Emily had not expressed a de-
sire to comply with his request, to sing, and
after their return to the parlor, he waited as
if in anticipation before asking again. She
sat moodily folding her hands idly and toying
with her rings, finally Mr. H. broke the
[Continued on page 94.]


[Column 1]
EMILY HAMILTON'S CHRISTMAS.

			[Concluded.]
silence, "Will you sing for me Emily, or is 
anything wrong here tonight?"
   "No, papa only I'm out of sorts, I guess I've 
got the blues,' mamma thinks I'm disagreeable
I've offended her by speaking about the
Christmas, you know, and papa I don't see
why we should always do quite the same things
in the same way just as they did a hundred
years ago?"
   Mr. Hamilton laughed, "a hundred years ago
no, I don't think we do just the same, why
Emily a hundred years ago your grandmother
was not born. No, I rather think if you were
put back a hundred years you would find
quite a difference. Not so many dainty ele-
gances as you girls have nowadays, why your
great grandmother who lived a hundred years
ago, rode through the woods to parties on a
pillion instead of in a luxurious, satin-lined
carriage. As for Christmas I don't think they had
any, Thanksgiving and New Year's were the
holidays in winter,but suppose you sing for me,
an old-fashioned song, I like old tunes and old
songs, and I'm not over fond of new-fangled
things nor ways either for that matter." After 
a little more in the same strain Emily sang
and her voice so full of melody, clear as a bell,
soothed her mother, as well as quieted even
her own rebellious spirit. Such is ever the
power of music over the human heart. When
she had gone over the list of her father's
favorite pieces, she came and put her arms
around his neck and coaxingly said, "come
papa what about a Christmas party?"
   "Supposing we consented your mother and I
to have this party, whom would you invite?"
Don't you know how disappointed all our
folks would be who've been in the habit of
coming here regularly for so many years?
    "To begin with papa Frank will bring one
of his college friends, I wrote to him to invite
his favorite companion," "O, I see Emily you
have arranged for a partner!" "Then we must
invite the young people that we have always
associated with I suppose, though there are
some of them very ordinary, and I don't sup-
pose they know how to get through any of the
new style dances."
   "Which of the families do you object to, or 
is it the young folks only, who are so objec-
tionable?" "Papa I didn't say I objected, not
exactly; there are not many to choose from,
and they, or at least the young men all voted
for your election to office, and I must be
gracious on that account, I don't think I care
much for any of them, but Harry Montague
has been very polite to me and in every way
possible has shown me marked attention since
I came home; we used to be very fond of each
other when we were children; he always helped
me over the brooks, and lifted me down out of
the trees, and gave me the largest berries when
we went out blackberrying." "Then you do
mean to include him," said her father, "shall
we make a list, taking notebook and pencil
from his pocket and writing; "Frank Hamil
ton's friend, Harry Montague, who next?"
Emily felt nettled, she did not quite like to be
subjected to such scrutiny, and to put an end
to it turned to her mother and asked her
opinion about the invitations. Mrs. Hamilton
quietly remarked, "it is your party child and
I cannot think of making suggestions," and
then as though to conciliate her a little said, 
"you know the girls and boys, two years has
not made many changes, only one or two have
gone away, you are aware of that, Harry might
help you or his sister Susie, she's a very lady-
like girl you'll not object to her as she is
Harry's sister."
   A little more of this sort of banter, and
Emily began to feel as if she would like to
give it up, but then she imagined herself help-

[Column 2]
ing to wait upon the aunts, uncles and cousins
and far off relatives and connections and she
took fresh courage. That night when alone
she consoled herself by thinking, she had been
punished for her perseverity, and that she ought
to have the party any way.
   "After all what does it matter about all
those people, who only come when they know
there's a fine dinner, papa could send them
each a present, I'll ask him," then she hesi-
tated. "No, the party will be more expensive,
there's the music, and lots of extras, no I can't 
ask him for anything more, except 1 must
have a new dress, and wondering whether he
really intended she should give the party she
fell asleep.
   Meanwhile Mrs. Hamilton had opened her
heart to her husband, after the little ones had
all been put to bed, and they decided that
Emily should give the party, and have her
own way about inviting, and see if it would
prove more pleasant for her in the realization
than the family dinner. So Emily was al-
lowed full liberty to proceed with the details.
    A few days after these occurrences, Emily's 
grandmother paid them a visit, she lived a
little distance away, and had not seen Emily
for some time. She was very sweet-mannered
and Emily had formerly been very fond of her,
but she saw the difference in her favorite's man-
ner and deplored it very much; she spoke
freely to her son on the subject and asked him
if he could countenance such hauteur under
his own roof. "Why" said the old lady ,"she
will not be a credit to you, or her mother
either, her pride is insufferable, what good is
all her French, and German, and music and
China painting, when she hasn't a kind word
for any of her old friends?" More in the
same strain, the elder Mrs. Hamilton poured
into her son's unwilling ears, he was ambitious
that his daughter should do well, in fact excel,
but he despised ostentation, and he knew his 
mother's view of the case, would be the one
others would take outside his own family.
   Emily's grandmother spoke very plainly to
her on several occasions, and cautioned her
against being so brusque, with the people who
called; most of them really out of respect for
her home-coming.
   "O, grandma you make me weary, I never
can do what you wish, what are all these
village people to me, I don't mean to be one
of them, I intend to go abroad and marry
some rich foreigner." "Some one with a title,
but without either money or brains I suppose,
and how do you propose to manage after
marriage? people have to live you know, there
are some things that can be dispensed with
but not the bread and butter." "I haven't 
got so far as that grandma, he hasn't put in
an appearance yet in any shape, but I dreamed
of him the other night and when I see him
I shall know him at once." "Worse and
worse child, and then when you see him and
know who he is, as you say, you'll go right up
to him and embrace him doubtless, and tell
him your dream and the wild tale of your love
and waiting?" "No grandma I'm not quite
that foolish, but I know lots of girls do marry
foreigners (I prefer Germans) and they travel
and see the world, one of our girls at school, a
special friend of mine, Fanny Osmond, fell in
love with a Count, and ran away from school,
and they were married, and her mamma was
sent for, and she took her home and forgave
her after awhile, and O, there's ever so much
more of the story only you wouldn't approve 
of it, so I'll not tell you about it."
   "No, Emily I don't approve of runaway
marriages in any case, and the sooner you dis-
card all such nonsense the better for you,and all
with whom you are connected; put all such
notions away from you, and marry some good
young man, whose integrity of character and

[Column 3]
uprightness is well established and you will
have more home-happiness depend upon it."
   The days went by and preparations for quite
a grand party were in progress. Invitations
were sent out and the affair made quite a stir
in the town for such elaborate parties were not
often given in the vicinity except on wedding
occasions. Frank returned from college, and
was quite surprised with the news of a grand
ball. His friend came a few days after, for
Frank wanted to know whether his mother
could arrange for a guest, before he made the
invitation binding. Emily was delighted when
she learned that he was quite an accomplished
young man, and that the coming year would
finish his college course, and he would begin
life as an Attorney at Law. Frank had in-
formed her that his father was wealthy, and
would set him up well,and he would not have to
begin with nothing but a bare office and a few
law books as so many young men do.
     Evergreen trees and vines and scarlet berries
were brought from the woods to decorate the
rooms for the coming event. The hot house
too was robbed of its choicest lilies and plants
for the time being and the trailing smilax
graced and beautified the elegant rooms.
Everything bespoke splendor and luxury.
   Frank's friend had arrived and been intro-
duced and made quite a sensation, both Emily
and her sister Bessie 'fell in love with him at
first sight,' as they termed it, and Mrs. Hamil-
ton herself could not help admiring his genial
and polished manner; Fred Boutwell was a
favorite everywhere, one of those men who al-
ways shine in a crowd, he was the life of any
company, his musical talent and fine baritone
voice were great attractions. He played and
sung and whistled, handled the guitar and
banjo with perfect ease like a real troubadour,
the piano keys were magical to his touch.  In
fact Emily almost wished that she had not sent
out her invitations for she enjoyed his society
so much, that she felt other girls would be an
intrusion. Emily Hamilton was intensely
selfish and wanted now to have this fine young
man devote himself exclusively to entertaining
her.  But it was too late now and Fred unlike
Frank Hamilton liked a crowd. He could 
amuse and interest a dozen girls as well as one
and enjoyed the fun very much better.
    After the first day or two at the Hamilton
home, he showed signs of restlessness; he was
accustomed to the City and when he talked of
New York and the gaiety of the season there,
he made Emily feel that he was sacrificing a
great deal to spend Christmas week there. She
longed for the city life he described so glow-
ingly, and the house though teeming with
everthing to make it a delightful place of en-
joyment, looked simple and homely compared
to the pictures Fred drew of the elegant
mansions in New York City. It lessened her
enthusiasm considerably about the party, and
some way whenever she was alone even for a
few minutes, she felt gloomy and sad.  The
elder Mrs. Hamilton was an observant person,
and not being engrossed with care like the
younger Mrs. H. had a good opportunity to
notice the change in Emily's manner. She
was well aware of the cause, for she had seen
much of life and could weigh and balance
character, was a good judge of appearances,
and had seldom been deceived in her estimate
of people. She had looked upon Fred with
suspicion from the first and felt sorry too, but
Frank was so ingenuous and unsuspecting
that he was likely enough to be deceived. Mr.
Hamilton was so absorbed in his business that
he had little time to spend at home except to
eat and sleep there; public duties occupied his
time to the entire exclusion almost of domestic
felicity.
	Christmas Eve came at last and with it a
heavy snow storm; it had snowed all day and
the sleigh bells were jingling merrily, the


[column 1]
﻿children were in the gayest of spirits and
Emily and Bessie quite exuberant with the
prospect of a sleigh ride on Christmas Eve. It
was finally decided that they should all go in
the double-seated rig but Frank would drive
and he would take Bessie with him, and Fred
and Emily might occupy the back seat. The
ride was pleasant and exhilarating and Fred
made the most of his opportunity, for what
time is more opportune for love making than a
long sleigh ride, wrapped in warm blankets
and tucked in together with buffalo robes.
	While the young folks were out sleigh-rid-
ing the children were having a nice time with
ma and grandma, the father too was at home
and casting aside care for the time being
helped mamma fill the children’s stockings,
though there was no Christmas tree. Some
gossip had already reached them through the
servants and children about the party being
too grand for their own relatives etc., but this
had been anticipated, and consequently didn’t
cause them any uneasiness. 
	Emily had said to her mother she wished
Grandma Hamilton would take it in her head
to go home, for she wanted her room for a
cloak room, it was the only convenient place
for one, but she had not been obliging enough
to go, she lived alone, and after having raised
a large family, her Christmas would have been
a lonely one indeed if she had spent it in her
own home, besides her maid always went home
at Christmas, and for years, she had visited
with one or other of her children during holi-
day time. Emily never dreamed that she was
selfish in wishing her grandma to go, if any
one had told her so she would have resented
it.
	About 12 o’clock the merry party drove up
and halloing, ‘‘Merry Christmas,” were soon
unwrapped and sitting by the warm fire regal-
ing themselves with the most tempting viands
the house afforded. It was noticable to all
that Fred drank freely of the wine, and having
been out in the cold it had a decidedly bad
effect. Even Emily observed it and became
embarrassed, for he grew very free and more
talkative than usual. It cast a damper over
the whole group, every one fell to thinking ex-
cept Fred and he talked on and on, and finally
Mrs. Hamilton motioned the girls and they
left the room together. What a night that
was for Emily, she had listened to the sweetest
words from this young man, the words of a
lover to his sweetheart, and thought him
noble and worthy her affection, the love of a
pure young girl. How fallen was her idol
now! she knew full well that her dream was
over, what a short one it had been only a few
days, less than a week, and she seemed to have
lived ages in that short time, she felt as if she
had known him always, that night he had
kissed her, had held her hands caressingly, O,
how could she bear this humiliation!
	She wished over and over again that she
had not insisted upon giving the party, that
things had taken their regular course and that
she would not be compelled to wear a smiling
face under a broken heart to-morrow. Perhaps
Fred would ask her forgiveness when he
realized that he had imbibed too much, he
would certainly be conscious of the fact she
thought, or at any rate Frank would tell him.
She slept little, and woke early with a
wretchedly dismal feeling. She wanted to go
and tell her mother all, but she hesitated think-
ing as her mother was not aware of any love-
making, it would be as well for her to remain
in ignorance of it, for all was over now.
	Mrs. Hamilton had a serious talk with her
husband that night,her Christmas was spoiled,
and she reproached herself for having allowed
wine on her table even at Christmas time. I
should not readily forgive any one who set
wine before my son if he had such a morbid
appetite, and I am resolved now from this time
[column 2]
never to allow it again, not even for my guests
upon any occasion,” she said to her husband.
He did not see it in the same light, men seldom
do, “he must be a man of weak character to
imbibe like that especially in the presence of
ladies, and when visiting in the house of friends
I feel sure it is not the first time, he is in the
habit of drinking immoderately, and is not a
fit companion for Frank, I shall talk plainly
to our boy about him tomorrow,” said Mr.
Hamilton. “And so shall I,” said the mother
never thinking that this stranger, as it were,
had made himself so dear to their darling
Emily.
	The morning found Fred suffering with
headache, could not come down to breakfast;
Frank made a lame apology for him, but they
all knew, why he had absented himself, all ex-
cept the elder Mrs. Hamilton, who began to
inquire, how it was that on Christmas morning,
when every one is expected to be unusually
cheerful, that they should all seem so low-
spirited. "And when the house is to be the
scene of such festivity tonight why is every
one so dull this morning?” She could not get
a satisfactory answer from any one however,
and was obliged to repress her curiosity. The
little ones were gay enough running here and
there displaying the treasures Santa Claus had
brought them and begging Grandma to tell
them stories of when she was a little girl, and
what Santa Claus gave to her.
	The house seemed more as though prepara-
tions were being made for a funeral than a
ball. Emily had no heart to look at her
Christmas presents, though Bessie had come in
early to show hers, but she found her sister
pale and sad, and went away thoughtful,
wondering why Emily should take Fred’s be-
havior so hard as to make herself sick over
it. It never occurred to the child that Emily
could be so interested in Fred that she should
grieve on his account. As she left her sister’s
room she said, “Don’t let Fred’s affair of last
night make you unhappy, Emily, he isn’t
worth noticing, I hope Frank will never bring
home any more of his chums, I’m ashamed of
him, the idea of his drinking like that.”
	Bessie then had no respect for this man to
whom she had given her affections almost un-
sought; she would gladly have shut herself in
and spent the day in weeping, but she must
keep up, and no one must know how she was
suffering inwardly, so she reasoned with her-
self, and the day dragged its weary length
along. Once or twice when she was alone with
her mother, she had feigned a gaiety she did
not feel, but Mrs. Hamilton observed how
little enthusiasm she was manifesting in the
last details of the party, and said “Emily are
you ill, was the long ride in the cold too much
for you? I shall not consent to your being out
so long at another time.” “O, I wish the party
was over and the house quiet once more,”
Emily replied, “I dread meeting these people
now when the time draws near.” “Indeed" said
the mother, that’s very strange after insisting
upon the party, and anticipating so much en-
joyment, and making your own selections of
everything and everybody, I don’t quite com-
prehend it, has anything gone wrong?” “No
mamma nothing, I think I’m not very, very
well, too much excitement perhaps,” and she
broke down and began to weep hysterically.
Mrs. Hamilton thought it was only due to un-
due anxiety, and perhaps some little remorse
of conscience for her selfishness, even Grand-
ma’s room had been taken for a cloak room,
though she had been very pleasant about it.
It never occurred to this fond mother that
Fred Boutwell was the cause.
	It was Emily’s first real sorrow, and she
wondered how she could possibly meet him,
sometimes she hoped he would be too sick to
make his appearance in the ball-room. What
a wretched Christmas it was to her, and she
[column 3]
had expected to meet her young friends so self-
satisfied and happy?
	Late in the afternoon Mrs. Hamilton asked
to see her dress, it had come home the day be-
fore from New York, and she had not even
shown it to her mother or sister. Reluctantly
she consented to try it on to please them; the
dress was elegant and a perfect fit; any other
time the girl would have gushed over it, for
she had never had such an elegant ball dress
before. Now Mrs. Hamilton observed how
very bad she looked, and felt really alarmed.
“Lie down a little while and keep perfectly
quiet, and you will be rested for the evening,”
said her mother fearing that she was really go-
ing to be seriously ill.
	The Christmas dinner was a very stiff affair
Fred evidently had some serious misgivings,
for he was unusually sedate, and altogether
the dullness was irksome, and every one seemed
glad to leave the table and go their separate
ways. Emily intended to avoid seeing Fred, lest
he should ask her pardon; she feared if he did
she might grant it even against her own will,
but the thing she dreaded came about after all;
as she was hurrying through the hall impatient
to get away from his gaze, he caught her hand
and held her fast for a moment, pouring into
her ears the same impassioned words of the
evening before, only with intensified emotion.
Finding no response he said, “Will you not
speak to me?” Before he had time to say
more she had wrenched her hand from his
tightened grasp, and fled like a wounded bird,
frightened at herself, lest she should betray the
love she still felt, though despising him in her
heart for his unblushing effrontery. But such
men are not easily daunted, she’ll come round
all right he thought to himself, give her a
little time..
	Emily alone in her own room fortified her-
self after this interview; she realized that he
did not see that he had made himself objec-
tionable, and she determined to act indepen-
dently. She made ready for the evening with
as much care as she could, her mother and
sister assisting, and even her grandma must
come upstairs to see how superb her dress
was, and how queenly she looked in the elegant
pink crepe and exquisite lace. She wore a
necklace of pearls and a profusion of white
roses that became her fine complexion
wonderfully, and it was not all surprising that
mother and grandmother should admire her.
	The guests came in good time, for the com-
ing party at Hamilton House had been the
talk of the town for many days beforehand,
and it was quite an event in such a quiet sort
of place. The music was inspiring and the
gay company assembled, and the warm greet-
ings of many former friends of Emily’s girl-
hood days, raised her spirits to an exuberance
more than natural. Harry was there and she
soon let him see that she had not been appro-
priated by Fred as the gossips had been saying.
Frank and Emily led in the first dance, and
after that she waltzed with Harry and it was
easy to see how delighted he was with her society.
Fred as if to vex Emily, paid his addresses to
the prettiest girls in the room, but whatever
she felt there was no outward demonstration.
Harry was far sighted in character-reading, he
had met Fred several times during his stay in
town and had suspected his bad habits, and
therefore looked suspiciously upon him; his
gallantry didn’t weigh much with Harry, who
was more of a diamond in the rough,
and when he saw him paying special attention
to his sister, he felt very indignant.
	Before the evening was half over he was
convinced that Fred Boutwell had been imbib-
ing, too freely of strong drink. After supper
he was leading Susie Montague out for another
dance and Harry observing his condition, went 
and asked her to excuse herself as he wanted
to go home, she hesitated and her partner in-


sisted on her remaining, and as she had not
the least idea why her brother wished her to
go, and really enjoyed the dancing as well as
the company of her partner, she took his arm
and walked away. Harry took Frank aside
and told him; what to do was the question and
avoid a scene; together they went to Mr.
Hamilton and while explaining,in came Emily
who had been thoroughly shocked and felt sure
others beside herself had observed Mr. Bout-
well's condition. Here was a dilemma, Emily
sank into a chair and utterly refused to go
back, something must be done quickly to avert
suspicion, Mrs. H. was called, and suggested
that they all return together and join the
dancers. This little ruse succeeded, the atten-
tion of the company was diverted to the old-
fashioned dancing for Mr. and Mrs. H. called
for Sir Roger de'Coverley and a Minuet
and the old-style figures finished the evening
When the last of the guests had departed
Emily confessed to her father and mother not
only her utter selfishness, but how nearly she
come to being in love with Fred, and how
bitterly she repented her folly. "I shall never
want another party, I feel so humiliated over
this affair." Frank took the blame on himself,
but Emily interposed, saying she had insisted
upon his bringing one of his friends; she had
made a narrow escape; and she never forgot
how near she came to being grossly deceived
by fine words and outward appearances. In
time she came to realize that money and posi-
tion in society do not constitute true gentlemen,
and grew to appreciate the honest love of an
upright man, though he had neither wealth
nor distinction by inheritance. Miss Hamil-
ton's grand Christmas ball was discussed and
criticised for weeks afterwards with all its de-
tails elaborated, until Emily felt she never
wanted to hear of Christmas again.
	Harry Montague had loved Emily from
childhood and he finally succeeded in winning
her for his wife. Frank discarded such com-
panions as Fred Boutwell and when he had
finished his studies came home and courted
Susie Montague; and one Christmas three years
after the unfortunate party there was a double
wedding and a happy gathering at Hamil-
ton House. It is needless to add that Emily
Hamilton always after insisted on having
Christmas trees and a good time generally for
the children, aud family parties for the older
ones,and found real happiness in making them
happy, and positively waiting upon them, and
though her manner was always a little distant
she was pretty effectually cured, by a severe
practical experience, of what her grandmother
had termed her "insufferable pride."


WOMAN’ EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE. B. WELLS Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS TIME.

	Dear old Santa Claus and the blessed Christ-
mas are always welcome; they bring peace and
good will the message of the angels. Joy and
gladness to the lowliest cot and the humblest
household. The Savior’s mission meant as much
and was as effectual to the poor as to the rich,
salvation to all who receive it, and walk in his
footsteps; and so down through the ages ring the
glorious words peace and good-will on earth, and
this is what we hear in the intonation when the
bells ring on Christmas morn. Joy to the world
for a Savior is born.
	“That to the cottage as the crown
	Brought tidings of salvation down ’’
	All over the glorious land wherever Christ’s
message has been proclaimed is this day observed
with festive celebration, as well as religious cere-
mony. In England perhaps more than any other
country the day is honored appropriately by be-
stowing gifts upon the poor. The rich who are
parsimonious even, seldom fail to remember the
poor on Christmas, this is proverbial, and the
custom is fast gaining ground in America. It is
good for the rich whose coffers overflow, to re-
member those who are not so highly favored by
the fickle goddess fortune; and it is also good for
all whatever their worldly circumstances may be
to remember those around them, who may not be
so pleasantly situated as themselves, or even
though they are, it is comforting to any of us to
know that there are others who feel in sympathy
with us, and show kindly feeling even once a
year. It is at any rate a good thing to look
around and see, if there is not some goodly way
in which one can render assistance or bestow a
favor or a blessing upon a brother or sister (for we
are all brothers and sisters, children of the same
heavenly parent) in some delicate manner that
will elevate and ennoble the giver and happify
the receiver.
	“The poor ye have always with you,” our
Savior said on one occasion, and it is verily so,
for if there are none who lack food and raiment,
there are those who are poorer still, who have
sorrows that call for kindness and sympathy.
And to the sorrowing and the mourner, what
more blessed boon than that of love and friend-
ship. That charity that is more than the giving
of alms.
	But one should not dwell upon the dark and
gloomy side of life at Christmas time, but present
the gay and brilliant, the bright and cheerful at
any rate—there should at least be a time of rejoic-
ing now and then,for the world is full pf sorrows,
and the blessed remembrance of a loving Savior’s
birth, should bring with it a feeling of joy and
pleasure to every human heart, a foretaste of
heaven where He dwells and where all may enter
who follow in his footsteps.

[Column 2]
	The people who dwell in these mountain vales
have much to be grateful for even though they
have some things not so agreeable. The children
for instance, their playhouses overflow on Christ-
mas day, Santa Claus has been very lavish in his
regular supplies for the last few years, and our
children of the present know very little of what
the generation now grown up experienced in the
early years in these valleys. Some of the many
little stockings that were hung up around the
primitive fire places were very scantily filled and
others perhaps not at all. The mothers in those
days didn’t go out looking for Santa Claus, but
many an earnest and heartfelt prayer was offered
with tearful eyes and sorrowing heart, that the
little ones might be happy and contented on
Christmas day with what little it was possible to
bestow.
	Mothers often studied long and hard over these
little things that are settled now without the least
difficulty; rag dolls in those days filled the place
of the “regular beauties" we hear of so often now,
and cakes and candy made with molasses were
much more common than with sugar, for if we had
sugar in those days we paid an enormous price
for it, and it was rarely used for cake. But the
children were as happy as though they had all
the goodies in the world, and there was not nearly
so much sickness. Plain food is always best for
children, and many of them now adays eat far too
much pastry and sweetmeats.
	There are other things to do on Christmas day
besides eating and drinking,and the little children
are as capable of bestowing good gifts and mak-
ing acceptable the good cheer as older people—
sometimes even more so. Home should be a sort
of sanctuary at such times where love sits at the
feast and sweetens every dish partaken of. Chil-
dren can make the heart of father and mother
gladder than all earthly blessings. Indeed
Christmas seems a day for children, for Christ
was once a babe, and his birth was lowly; He
came not to a lordly mansion but in a stable
though he was king of all.
	There are so many beautiful books for children
now—so much done for them in every way, and
on every day, that it seems almost impossible to
make Christmas even a holiday, But if they can
do something themselves, can divide of their own
with another, can cheer some one’s heart who is
sick and lonely,or in sorrow, can speak kind and
loving words at home, cheer up the home,
brighten the faces of those around them with
gracious and graceful acknowledgements of kind-
ness and love shown to them, these little things
will be remembered more than the costliest gifts
or the daintiest luxury.
	Our sisters who are young women now and
recollect those childish days, could tell many
pleasing tales of their own experience at those
well-remembered times, and it would be very
pleasant if they would write them up for the home
papers, that the children of today might have
more  true stories to read and less idle trash, than
is usually the case. Children are always anxious
to know if a story is true, and truth is always
more acceptable, and makes a better impression;
and good and lasting impressions made early in
life are the sure foundations of character. Any
story well told will live, a true description of
scenes and incidents lives in history and becomes
a part of history itself.
	Now that the history of Utah is to be written
how anxious we all feel that it should be not only
interesting, but should give the true idea of the
early times of the people here. Their merry-
making, their festivities, as well as the soberer
and more adventurous part of their former life.
	Sir Walter Scott in his poem of Marmion has
given a pen picture of Christmas in the olden
time in Scotland and the British Isles that any
one can almost see it over again when reading it,
so intensely real has he made it. It has been used

[Column 3]
to illustrate fireside pictures in Holiday books
over and over again and it will last while the
English language is spoken. It is only three
paragraphs but tells so much in such a wonderful
way. Here are a few lines that cannot be mis-
taken in their meaning.
		“Heap on more wood!—the wind is chill .
		But let it whistle as it will'
		We’ll keep our Christmas merry still,
	And again he says:
		The fire with well-dried logs supplied,
		Went roaring up the chimney wide;
		The huge hall-table's oaken face 
		Scrubbed till it shone the day to grace,
		Bore then upon its massive board
		No mark to part the squire and lord.
		Then was brought tn the lusty brown,
		By old blue-coated serving man
		Then the grim boar’s head frowned on high
		Crested with bays and rosemary.
		Well can the green-garbed ranger tell,
		How when and where the monster fell;
		What dogs before his death he tore,
		And all the baiting of the boar.
		The wassel round in good brown bowls.
		Garnished with ribbons, blithely trowls.
		There the huge sirloin reeked hard by
		Plum, porridge stood, and Christmas pie;
		Nor failed old Scotland to produce.
		At such high-tide her savoury goose.
	He also tells us of savage tribes in those olden
times, with what festivity they made merry.
	The pioneers here could tell some delightful
things of festive and social amusements, simple
perchance but nevertheless interesting. It may
be the days are not far enough removed as yet,
for everything old is the fashion nowadays, a few
years later these tales may be more acceptable
than they would be even now, but who will be
able to tell them as well. Our own newspapers,
magazines and children’s books ought to abound
with stories, poems, dialogues and dramas from
the experience of our own people, not to same-
ness, but at least well sprinkled in,that the history
written hereafter may have plenty, of matter to
make a rich variety.
	The songs of a people or a nation are always in-
dicative of their character and lives, and have
lived long after the nation in many instances; so
should this people have a history in poetry as
well as in prose, and songs that may be sung long
after the writer has lain down to sleep in his last
earthly resting place. Who is to write these
songs if not the children of the early settlers?
Are not they the ones who should have the
honor?


"A GREEN TEA" PARTY.

	Mrs. Priscilla Jennings of this city gave "A
Green Tea" to a party of ladies, at her residence,
Thursday Dec. 3. The invitations were issued
for 4 p.m. The house was profusely decorated
with vines and flowers; the fragrance of the roses
lilies, hyacinths and carnations with the pleasant
warmth of the rooms was suggestive of a tropical
clime, but bright wood fires were burning in the
open grates, which made the picture more illusive.
The view from the house which is picturesquely
situated on the hill above the street was more
wintry however and indicated the approach of
Winter in the valley.
	After the cordial welcome of the hostess and
the greetings of friends the ladies were seated at
tables arranged tete a tete, and here again was a
display of green ribbons for each guest as well as
the trailing smilax; the flowers that adorned the
tables gave zest to the delicious viands, and a
sweet and particularly pleasing tone to the enter-
tainment.
	Of the repast it is needless to say that everyone


enjoyed it, and the flow of general conversation
through the rooms was spirited and enlivening.
When the guests rose from the table they wore
their green ribbons, a pretty idea of remembrance
of the day. Some exquisite music by the young
ladies afterwards, gave a still more elevating tone
to the unique gathering, and a feeling of restful-
ness which is always pleasant in social parties.
	Mrs. Jennings presented each of the ladies with
a beautiful bouquet of flowers, roses, etc. After
some further conversational enjoyment, the party
reluctantly dispersed. Mrs. Jennings is a most
genial and agreeable hostess. She has been
much accustomed to this sort of thing, as in her
husband's lifetime (the Hon. Wm. Jennings) they
gave many large parties, and always entertained
in some such way the distinguished people who
visited Utah, the Presidents of the United States
and Senators, Generals and people of rank and
note.
	At the tea party at the Jennings house on this
occasion perhaps the most distinguished woman at
any rate by age was Sister Presendia L. Kimball,
whose four score years and more have brought
wisdom and understanding to her spiritual nature
which surpasses the learning of the world. She
is very large and dignified, stately one might say,
and her complexion fair as a lily, her soft white
hair falls around a face beaming with the intelli-
gence that looks out of the soul. Of other
veteran sisters there were M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane B.
Taylor and Jane S. Richards, who are entitled to
the rank of Mothers in Israel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS DISPLAY. 
	The City always presents a gay appearance at
holiday time, and this year is not an exception to
the rule, although money is scarce, goods of all
kinds are abundant and of the greatest variety
imaginable, and evergreen trees on the street for
sale make the showing of Christmas near at hand.
The weather is not very cold and there is not
enough snow to make the mountains and valley
look really wintry enough to be as beautiful as
when it wraps its clear white mantle over all.
	The old reliable Art Gallery of C. R. Savage
comes out with its usual and unusual assortment
of pictures, of almost every variety and a novel
sign to attract attention “The New Wonderland
etc.” At this store one may find almost every-
thing to decorate for the holidays, also many
substantial articles suitable for presents in quantity
and quality to please all sorts of fancies. Mr.
Savage keeps painting and drawing materials,
books of almost all kinds, for old and young.
In photography in every style, this establish-
ment is par excellence. It is quite famous for its
views of scenery, not only of Utah but Southern
California and other interesting places.
	D. M. Mc’Allister at the Utah Book and
Stationery Store, though not so long in the busi-
ness has spared no pains in making his place at-
tractive, and he has succeeded admirably in that
respect. His windows are quite a show for the
general public and attract large crowds daily and
especially in the evening when brilliantly lighted.
Books to suit the popular taste maybe found here
as also classical works of poetry and prose and
all the various kinds and qualities of goods that
are kept in much larger stores. He seems to have
a good faculty of economizing space. Up stairs
where the finest goods are kept, the room is taste-
fully and elaborately decorated. Chinese and
Japanese fancy umbrellas, lanterns and trinkets
being used along with the regular Christmas deco-
rations.
	The China hand painted ornaments and colored
pictures and photographs are very artistic. Miss
Kate Wells’ work being particularly good ;in this
branch of coloring pictures, either in figures,
flowers or scenes, Miss Wells does specially fine
work. Mc’Allister’s is one of the most attractive
places in the City. Books of home production
are also kept on sale at Mc’Allisters’; those of
Alfred Lambourne’s being  very artistic and at-
tractive.
	The Woman’s Co-operative Institution has a
very good assortment of holiday goods, both use
tul and ornamental, as well as dolls and a variety
of toys. Mrs. Goddard who has charge of. the
store has been accustomed to handling fancy
goods, materials for embroideries, silk and
worsted work, and is well adapted to this depart-
ment of the business, as also in handling ladies’
dress materials and trimmings. The store is well
supplied with millinery goods and employs a first-
class milliner and dressmaker. Ladies interested
in woman’s co operative industries should be sure
and examine the stock in this Store before buying
elsewhere.
	Margett’s Bros, have a fine display in the Con-
stitution Building they keep everything in the
Book and Stationery line, all the latest and best
magazines, journals and periodicals, as well as
the daily papers of this City, and Eastern and
Pacific Coast. Their store is a very large one
and abundantly supplied. They make a specialty
of toys also and of everything in the line. They
keep all the finest qualities and grades of paper
both American and foreign, and their window is
one of the finest in town in its arrangement, a
fire burning in a miniature fire-place looks very
home like and cheerful to the passing crowds.
	James Dwyer who always understood how to
suit the popular taste as well as to cater to par-
ticular “fads”in the book and variety article line
has opened a florist’s establishment on Main
Street in one of the Daynes windows and there is
nothing more tempting on the Street than the dis-
play he is making of flowers for the Christmas
time. Roses, and lilies of several varieties and
various other kinds of flowers delight the eye
and feast the soul of the lover of beauty in bud
and blossom. The rarity of flowers at this sea-
son of the year make us all the more apprecia-
tive of the gladdening sight.
	The Z. C. M. I. has outdone itself almost, in
its display of goods and fancy groceries, and
other stores, especially Teasdel’s which always
makes a conspicuous and attractive display at holi-
day time, and also shops have made the most of
the space they occupy and their room for display.
The meat markets always decorate with ever-
green, and dress their meats and fowls to make
them as tempting as possible.
	R. K. Thomas on 1st South St., deals in heavy
merchandise as well as a variety of fancy goods,
has a splendid faculty of showing his stock in
trade to advantage, he has always taken immense
pains to gratify the taste of the public for the
beautiful in the arrangement of his wares, and a
more genial business gentleman cannot be found.
He has been accustomed all his life to the hand-
ling and disposing of dry goods, silks, shawls,
ribbons and laces etc., and in this line of pleas-
ing his patrons he assuredly excels,
	Johnson and and Pratt in the Constitution
Building have not only an elaborate display of
drug goods etc., but also of fancy articles in
glass and silver, and other varieties.
	Hardy and Young in the same building have
made their windows very attractive indeed and
their groceries are very tempting, they also keep
a variety of other goods.
	Barnes and Lewis though carrying mostly very
heavy merchandise generally, have also made a
Christmas display, but time would fail to “tell it
all."
	The Juvenile Instructor have fitted up their

[Column 3]
windows quite handsomely; they have a great
variety of good books, keep all the Church works,
and home literary productions in the best quality
of paper and binding, as well as the cheaper
varieties, so that their prices may accommodate
all purchasers. They keep the best supply of
Sunday School literature and prize cards, report
books for these institutions and all the variety of
stationery; albums and a large assortment of
articles suitable for Christmas gifts, and dolls and
toys in great abundance. There is no better
quality of goods of the kind than at the Juvenile
Office for Sunday School and Association pur-
poses. The new store gives them ample room to
make the place an attractive one for customers,
and they are always attentive and obliging in
showing goods.


UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB.

	The U. W. Press Club met in the parlor of the
WOMAN'S EPPONENT Office Nov. 30, 1891, the
President, E. B. Wells in the chair. Prayer was
offered by Ruth M. Fox. The secretary Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp read the minutes of the meeting of the
organization held Oct. 31, and they were accepted
as read.
	After some informal conversation on matters
pertaining to the press and to Club work, letters
were read by the secretary from Maria M. John-
son, Circleville, Piute Co., Ellen Jakeman, Provo,
Utah Co., Lucinda L. Dalton, Manti, Sanpete Co.
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, South Bountiful,Davis
Co., Martha A. Y. Greenhalgh, Meadow, Millard
Co., and Sophie Valentine, Brigham City, Box
Elder Co. These letters were mostly expressive
of good feeling and interest in press work, and
regret at their inability to be present at the meet-
ing.
	A motion was made and seconded that 200
copies of the Constitution of the Club should be
published in leaflet form for distribution. Carried,
and ordered printed.
	The principal exercises were, an article from
the pen of Susa Y. Gates on the "Local Literary
Field for Women," read by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	A poem entitled "The Mother Author" by Lula
Greene Richards was read by Ruth M. Fox.
	An article in reply to D. P. Felt's opinion on
the Woman Suffrage Question was read by the
President, it was from the pungent pen of Sarah
M. Kimball.
	Julia A. Mac'Donald read an original article on
the "Poet's Ideal Woman."
	Ruth M. Fox an original poem entitled "Greet-
ing," which was very expressive.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp contributed a poem from her
own pen which she entitled "Love Divine."
	Meeting adjourned until Wednesday Dec. 30,
at the same time and place, benediction by Dr.
E. R. Shipp. Chocolate, cake and fruit were
served to the ladies and all agreed that the meet-
ing had been a most interesting one.
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Secy.


The first woman physician in Finland has
practised in Helsingfors since 1883, when she
was employed at a salary of $400 to treat the
poor women of the city. When the contract
was renewed, her salary was raised, and last
year she was chosen as one of the regular city
physicians for certain wards.
	A society of women has been formed in
Amsterdam, the objects of which are to secure
for women educational advantages, the right
to teach in the higher schools, to practise law,
to be appointed to State positions, and to en-
joy legal rights on becoming of age; also to
secure for married women equal rights with
their husbands.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿


[column 1]
			NOTES AND NEWS.
	Ninety working women have formed a labor
union in Antwerp.
	The sad news is received of the death at
Tarpon Springs, Fla., of Dr. Mary J. Safford.
	Mrs. Deming is editor of the Daily Advocate,
Palestine, Texas. Mrs. Buta W. Bowen is
editor and manager of the Cotulla (Tex.)
Ledger.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward has
completed the biography of her father, Prof.
Austin Phelps. It will be published by the
Scribners.
	When a man goes wrong, “There is always
a woman at the bottom of it.” When a man
goes right, we never hear that there is a wo-
man at the top of it, but there is.— Galveston
News.
	The Woman’s Recorder, of Toledo, Ohio,
says: “The State is experiencing a boom in the

[column 2]
work for school suffrage, which draws to it the
most conservative women and men of the
State. We can all unite upon school suffrage.”
	Mrs. Mary Frost Ormsby, of New York
city is a delegate from the United States to
the Universal Peace Congress held in Rome
this month.
	There are half a million Mohammedans in
Austria, and their women will receive only
women physicians. This has led the Austrian
minister of finance to recommend to the gov-
ernment that women be allowed to practise
medicine generally.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer addressed several as-
semblages of ladies in New York City last
week, and was instrumental in having com-
mittees of women organized for beginning
active work for the World’s Fair. In addition
to securing a practical exhibit of the in-
dustrial, educational and ethical work carried
on by women, an effort will be made to have
women appointed on the State Board of Fair
Commissioners for New York, and to have a
portion of the State appropriation assigned to
them.
	Mrs. Electra E. Smith, has been chosen vice-
president of the Illinois Republican Associa-
tion in Washington. This is one of the
largest State political organizations, made up
mainly of government clerks and office-holders
at the capital. Mrs. Smith was for eight years
postmistress at Sterling, III., having received
her commission from General Grant, and is at
present assistant chief in the sixth auditor’s
office. She is well known in charitable and
society circles in Washington.
	Miss Alice Rideout of San Franci co has
been awarded the first prize in the competition
of women sculptors for the attic and cornice of
the women’s World’s Fair building. The re-
ward carries with it a contract for the execu-
tion of full-sized models of the groups at a
price from $1500 to $2500 for the divans and
from $2000 to $3200 for the great forty-foot
panel.
	The successful competitor is not yet out of
her teens. She has made modeling and
sculpture a study from childhood. Three
groups of figures represent respectively “Wo-
man’s Virtues,” “Woman as the Spirit of Civi-
lization,” and “Woman’s Place in History.”
	Miss Rideout has already done some very
noteworthy work. Her last success is more re-
markable as a number of older and more ex-
perienced sculptors were among her compe-
titors, but her designs were in advance of all
others.


[column 1]
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

[column 2]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C, will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

[Rio Grande Western Railway logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
...THROUGH THE...
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD. 
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.G. & P. A.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORC[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
