Vol. 20				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1892.				No. 18.


CONTENTS.
	The Present Administration of the Relief So-
ciety—Dr. R. B. Pratt. Address of Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne. News P. C. W. P. A. Address
of Bathsheba W. Smith. The Agricultural Ex-
periment Station—J. W. Sanborn. Editorial
Notes. Important to the Relief Society. Relief
Society Conference.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference Notice. Relief So-
city Jubilee—Exercises at the Tabernacle.
	POETRY:—Retrospection—Sister Lucy. Too
Late—Marah Rocke. Jubilee Hymn—Hannah
Cornaby.


RETROSPECTION.

	We push the gates of time ajar,
		And mem’ry now roam thro’;
	Threescore and four eventful years,
		Old time hath wrought out for you!
	Stand again at the open door,
		With the same old ardent grace.
	And there reclasp a new-born babe,
		In a loving glad embrace.
	And there each scene renewing o’er,
		With a youthful zeal and thrill,
	Loved ones dear of the cot within,
		To landscape of wood and hill
	We mark the seasons in their flight,
		And recount their changes o’er,
	Sit at the feast, thy birthday night,—
		Time recorded, "aged four."
	Among the merry hills we roam,
		Breathing pure health-giving air,
	And gather around the dear old home,
		As when children free from care.
	Down in the meadow green we stray,
		Cast our lines in “Silver Brook,"
	Trophies eager to bear away
		Of our dainty bait and hook.
	Echoes’ come back of laugh and song.
		We woke in the green wood wild.
	Companions dear around us throng,
		The flower of youthful pride.
	Now to and from the village school; 
		Viewing landmarks by the way,—
	The mill, the pond, the water-wheel,
		Turning off showers of spray.
	Youthful scenes wear an amber glow,
		Touched by mem'rys magic spell,
	We revel in the long ago;
		Hand and heart with "Rosabel."

	The gates close back, the curtain falls.
		Raising now at sixtyfour,—
	In love we greet, and ask for thee,
		Useful life, another score.
	To labor on with ready pen;
		With true heart, and gifted tongue.
	For God, and Home, and every Land,
		Receive the plaudit of "Well Done!"
								SISTER LUCY.

Atchison Kan., Feb. 29th, 1892.
Petname.


TOO LATE

		Some day, I meant,—
	When smoother ran the wheels of life,
And peace and leisure close were blent,
	And all the weary toil and strife
Had given way to sweet content,—
		Some time, I meant
To closer draw love's tendrils dear
	Around my boy, and many ways
So dear to boyish hearts, to cheer
	And brighten all his boyhood’s days,
		And bring content.

		Some time, I thought
To make his life a poem rare,


Replete with noble thought and aim;
A structure great, and good, and fair,
	Crowned by the coronet of his fame.
		I planned for naught.
For, now my leisure hours are here,
	So swiftly time its changes ring,
The scenes that once had been so dear,
	Have now forever taken wing.
		Too late, the thought.

		I little thought
While burdened with life's petty care,
	So swiftly did the moments fly,
That many golden chances, rare,
	Had swiftly, stilly, passed me by, 
		Vanished, unsought. 
My restless boy has learned to be
	Content with other ways than mine,
Has grown away from home and me,
	And left my aching heart to pine.
		Time dearly bought.

		Oh, vain regret!
I should have deemed it sweeter, far,
	His loving confidence to prize.
Sweeter than all life's luxuries are,
	To see the lovelight in his eyes.
		Can I forget?
I should have called most blest, the hours
	That gave him to my loving care,
And shown him wisdom's fairy bowers;
	By many a precept, here and there.
		Oh, sad regret !
								MARAH ROCKE.


[Column 1]
﻿THE PRESENT ADMINISTRATION OF
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				
MRS. ZINA. D. H. YOUNG PRESIDENT.
				
	(Written Tor the Jubilee March 17th, 1892
by Dr. R. B. Pratt.)
	After the death of Eliza R. Snow, which
occurred Dec. 5th, 1887, Sister Zina D.
Young, who had been her first counselor, took 
charge until the semi-annual conference of the 
Church, April 8th, 1888, when she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Society.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards, after the
authorities of the Church had been presented,
said: “Ourlamented Sister Eliza R. Snow
has been president of the Relief Society ever
since its organization in these mountains, and 
has labored with unexampled diligence for its
welfare and advancement. Her death now
leaves the organization without a president.
Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor.
It is now moved and seconded that she be
made president. Sister Young was unanimously
sustained.”
	October 11th, 1888, President Zina Young
chose as her first counselor Jane S. Richards,
as her second Bathsheba W. Smith, cor. sec.,
Emmeline B. Wells. They were set apart 
under the hands of the First Presidency of 
the Church.
	The central board of the Relief Society was
then fully organized as follows: President Zina
D.H. Young; first counselor, Jane S. Richards;
second counselor, Bathsheba W. Smith; sec.
Sarah M. Kimball; assistant sec., Romania B.
Pratt; cor. sec., Emmeline B. Wells; treasurer,
M. Isabella Horne.
	One of the most notable features of progress
of the Relief Society was the inauguration of
annual and semi-annual conferences for women,
where special instruction peculiar to their 
work could be given by the President and her

[Column 2]
counselors and other experienced women, and
where verbal reports are made by the Presidents
of Stake and societies or their representatives.
Each society through these privileges is
enabled to receive the benefit of the combined
wisdom and intelligence of the whole
	The first general conference of the Relief
Society convened in the Assembly Hall of 
this City Saturday morning, April 6th, 1889,
President Zina D. Young presiding, assisted
by her counselors. Sister Young wrote an
eloquent address which was read by E. B
Wells. It consisted of special instructions
upon the duty of women as wives and mothers
and Relief Society work.
	The semi-annual Conference of the Relief 
Society, was held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, October 7th, 1889, Zina D, Young
presiding. There were two sessions.
	Conferences were also held April 7th, 1890
October 7th, 1890, April 7th, 1891 October
7th, 1891 the third semi-annual conference
was held in the Assembly Hall in this city.
President Zina D. Young presiding.
	The approximate amount expended in
charitable work during the years 1888-89-90
91, in Utah, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Sand.
wich Islands, London and Canada was
$70, 892.04. There are probably over 400
branch societies, with a membership of about
25,300. Besides gathering and dispensing 
this vast amount of means, the Relief Society
has organized and managed many enterprises
called home industries, such as the Woman’s
Co-op Store, millinery parlors and dressmak-
ing establishments. Many branches have
built and own their own halls and wheat
granaries. When we consider the many 
thousands of the poor and needy that this
money has comforted, fed, clothed and kept
warm, the scope and industry of the Relief
Society organization can in a measure be
realized. President Zina Young, her counselors
and other sisters travel extensively among the 
Stakes,organizing new branches and instructing
in the work. They have been indefatigable in
their labors and the fruits thereof are already
seen in every part of the Church which has
been blessed by their presence.


ADDRESS OF MRS. M. ISABELLA
			HORNE.

	[Read by Apostle Abraham H. Cannon at
the Relief Society Jubilee in the Large Taber-
nacle, Salt Lake City, March 17, 1892.]

	My Brethren and Sisters:—My heart is
filled with praise and gratitude to my Heavenly
Father that he has spared my life to meet with
you on this important occasion, to celebrate by
a grand Jubilee all over the world, the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the organization of the Relief 
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the
last dispensation of the fulness of times. I am
thankful that I had the privilege of being as-
sociated with the first organization, and of hear-
ing instructions from the President, Emma
Smith. She exhorted us to faithfulness in the
discharge of our duties, and especially to
humble ourselves and not ask God to humble
us, as He might do it in a way that would 
not be very pleasant to us. These remarks
made a lasting impression upon my mind.
	After the martyrdom of our beloved Prophet
and Patriarch, the Saints were permitted to


[Column 1]

remain in Nauvoo till the Temple was com-
pleted, and many of us received our endow-
ments in that House of the Lord. Soon after
this the people were driven from their homes in
the middle of winter during heavy snow
storms and severe frost. I with my family
crossed the Mississipi river in the month of
February, 1846, and camped with the Saints
on Sugar Creek. After that the river froze
over and other companies crossed on the ice.
Early in the Spring we commenced our weary
journey through mud and storm to find a home
among the savages in the Rocky Mountains.
When we arrived at Council Bluffs a call was
made upon Pres. Young by the Government
for five hundred of our able-bodied men to go
to the Mexican war, which prevented us from
continuing our journey and necessitated our
going into Winter Quarters, where we were
seriously afflicted with that dreadful disease—
scurvy. In June, 1847, the saints were or-
ganized into companies to follow the Pioneers,
and I was with the first company that left
Winter Quarters. The trials, hardships and
privations that the people of God endured on
that long and weary journey were great and
can only be understood by those who ex-
perienced them.
	Children were born on the way before we
reached Council Bluffs, myself giving birth to
a daughter at Pisgah, the company started
forward on the third day after.
	When our pilgrimage was over we found
ourselves in a barren waste, inhabited by
Indians. But we were glad to find a resting
place where we could worship God without
fearing our enemies were coming upon us. The
weather was favorable for building, and the
brethren immediately began to saw logs and
erect small log houses, into which many of us
moved without having either doors windows or
floors.
	Here again there were many difficulties to
overcome. The ground was full of snakes
which used to crawl around our houses, but
these were soon killed or frightened away. The
timber was so full of bugs that it was years be-
fore they were entirely subdued. The mice
also were very numerous, running over us by
day and by night, and destroying considerable
clothing, etc., which caused great incon-
venience and trouble. We were also obliged
to live on short rations, digging roots to add to
our store, in order to make our supplies last
until something could be raised for food.
During that winter many of the Mormon
Battalion arrived, and we were under the
necessity of sharing our food with them. We
could put a little grease into a dish with a rag
in it to make a light, and parch a little wheat
to make our coffee, but when it came to making
soap we were put to our wits' end to get
material to make enough to do our washing. I
can hardly tell today how we did succeed. But
the Lord opened our way and blessed us with
cheerful, contented spirits and thankful hearts.
	I well remember the first harvest home we
celebrated. Apostles Parley P. Pratt and
John Taylor called upon the sisters to prepare
a.feast. They prepared what food they could
from their meagre store and set a long table
in the Fort. Although the food was plain and
everything was done in a humble way, our
hearts flowed with thanksgiving to our
Heavenly Father for the blessings conferred
upon us. Our table decorations were sheaves
of wheat and other things that had been
raised. Although the crops were light we had
enough to last us another year, and some to
spare to our brethren and sisters that came
the following year.
	The second year of our being in the valley
the crickets threatened to destroy our crops;
men, women and children had to fight them,
many were driven into the ditches of water
and were piled where there was any obstruc-

[Column 2]

tion, bushels and bushels. The Lord sent the
quails to devour them and thus we were saved
from starvation.
	In the spring of 1849 many of the people
left the Fort where we first located and moved
to their city lots. During the next few years
our numbers rapidly increased, and many
poor saints gathered. Pres. Young then found
it advisable to again organize a Relief Society.
You have heard a sketch read this morning
of the organization of the Relief Society in
this city both before and after the move, I had
the honor of being chosen as First Counselor
to our President Phebe Woodruff, and Sister
Southworth as Second Counselor, in the first
organization of the society in the Fourteenth
Ward, where we worked faithfully for the re-
lief of the poor, and made many useful articles
of clothing which were given to the poor to
make them comfortable for their journey during
the Move. We were re-organized in the same
ward by Bishop Hoagland in the year 1867,
with myself as President, and Sisters Wilmirth
East and Susan B. Wilkinson as counselors.
	The various branches of the Society have
been in good working order from that day till
the present, and their labors and the good
that has been done cannot be written, and are
only known by our Father in heaven.
	In the year 1877 the Relief Society was or-
ganized in a Stake capacity, and I was selected
to fill the office of President of the Salt Lake
Stake, with Sisters Elmina S. Taylor and
Sarepta Heywood as Counselors, Elizabeth
Howard Sec., and B. W. Smith Treas. Sister
Heywood discharged faithfully the duties of
her office until her death,when Sister Helen M.
Whitney was elected to fill the vacancy. The
officers were set apart by Pres. Angus M.
Cannon and Counselors. The first Quarterly
Conference of the Relief Society of this Stake
was held in March, 1878, and have been held
regularly up to the present time.
	I have been a worker in the Society from the
first, and have rejoiced in the work we were
called upon to perform in looking after the
poor, comforting the sick, watching by their
bedsides, and preparing proper clothing for
them when they passed away. A great many
of our brethren and sisters have been respect-
ably clothed for burial by the members of this
society. Thousands of dollars have been
collected and given to the poor, besides re-
sponding to other calls that have been made
upon us. Pres. Young advised the sisters to
build houses in which to hold meetings and
perform their labors. Many branches have
done this, and also built granaries in which to
store their wheat, according to the counsel of
President Young, who was always interested
in the advancement and progress of the sisters.
	In 1870 Pres. Young called me to fill an
important home mission—that of organizing
the sisters into what was then called the Re-
trenchment Association, its object being to
lighten the labors of the women and give them
more time to devote to mental and spiritual
culture. It was some time before I could gain
sufficient courage to perform this labor, but
Sister Snow urged me to do my duty, so with
fear and trembling I endeavored to do so. In
the spring I invited about twelve presidents of
branches of the Relief Society to meet with me
in my own house. They were all willing to
help in the work. We appointed a meeting in
the Fifteenth Ward Hall and had a good
meeting. It was then that a committee of
three ladies, viz:, Mrs. Amelia Folsom Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah M. Kimball, 
were appointed to wait upon Acting Governor
Mann and thank him for signing the bill giv-
ing the elective franchise to women. From
that meeting we adjourned to the Fourteenth
Ward Hall where an organization was effected
with M. Isabella Horne as President, and
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Margaret

[Column 3]

T. Smoot, Phebe Woodruff, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Sarah M. Kimball as her Coun-
selors.
	After Sister Smoot moved to Provo, Sister
Howard was chosen to fill her place and after
Sister Woodruff passed away Sister Minerva
W. Snow was chosen to fill the vacancy; since
the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow, Sisters
Elizabeth T. Webb and Elizabeth Stevenson
have been added to our number.
	Meetings have been held semi-monthly
since that time, and much good instruction has
been given, and many of the sisters have ob-
tained a testimony of the truth of the Gospel
and the divine mission of Joseph Smith, who
had never thought much about religious mat-
ters before attending those meetings.
	I feel thankful to my Heavenly Father that
He inspired the Prophet Joseph to organize
the Relief Society and thus open the door for
the advancement of woman. May the good
work continue. May we appreciate our privi-
leges and go forth faithfully in the discharge
of our duties as mothers in Israel is the earnest
desire of your co-laborer in the kingdom of
God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEWS P. C. W. P. A.

	Mrs Maggie Downing Brainard of the
“Santa Clara Valley” is writing a profusely
illustrated article on the possibilities of
horticulture on the Coast setting forth its
advantages as a profession for women.
	The official seal of the W. P. A. will be a
fac-simile of the badge; a five-pointed star,
bearing the initial of the association and date
of inauguration.
	Mr. Geo. T. Gaden to whom the members
of the W. P. A. are truly indebted for
thorough acts of kindness and who was elected
an honorary member of the association, has
presented a beautiful gold badge (suitably
inscribed) to Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst upon
her retirement from the office of Cor. Sec’y.
of the W. P. A.
	The W. P. A. will make every effort to
entertain in as pleasant a manner as possible
the National Editors Ass’n and in doing thus
will not hold a March Convention.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Vore’s finely illustrated
article on Our Press Ass’n evoked most
praiseworthy comment. The article appeared
in the St. Louis Chaperone.
	Mrs. Lindon Bates of Portland, Oregon was
tendered on March first a handsome Reception
by the Illinois Woman’s Press Ass’n. This
as a compliment to the manner in which their
delegates were entertained at their recent
convention held in San Francisco. The
Reception was held at the Palmer House in
Chicago over 1200 invitations being sent out.
	Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst has accepted a
position on the staff of the National Journal
of Chicago and will henceforth represent
business interests on this Coast not conflicting
with the Californian.
	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, Mrs. E. O. Smith,
Mrs. Anna Morrison Read, Miss Mary
Lambert, Miss E. D. Keith and Mrs. L. M.
McCann have been appointed on the board of
Lady Managers for the World’s Fair in San
Francisco and Mrs Isabella Raymond and
Mrs. M. O. Stanton on the Santa Cruz Board.


Solid love, whose root is virtue, can no more
die than virtue itself.—Erasmus.
         
	He who holds back rising anger like a
rolling chariot, him I call a real driver; other
people are but holding the reins—Hindu.
    
	Give not thy tongue too great liberty, lest it
take thee prisoner. A word unspoken is, like
the sword in the scabbard, thine. If vented
thy sword is in another’s hand.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


JUBILEE HYMN.

	Written March 17, 1892 for the fiftieth anniversary of
the Relief Society. organized March 17, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Ill.

	Well may the songs of gladness
		Within these vales resound,
	Hushed every note of sadness,
		And only joy abound.
	A truce to care and sorrow,
		Let one and all agree,
	Forgetful of the morrow
		To keep this Jubilee.

	The wheels of time have brought us
		With their ever onward pace, 
	Till fifty years their course have run
		For which we render praise.
	We all, God's watchful care should own
		And His great goodness see;
	Only let love our hearts attune
		To keep this Jubilee.

	Nor in our favored land alone
		Will this glad day be kept,
	Where ere the Gospel light has shone
		To show where darkness slept.
	Nations afar and distant lands,
		The islands of the sea,
	With us will join with heart and hand
		To keep this Jubilee.

	The Gospel of Salvation
		With all its gifts and powers
	Has been restored again,
		To light this world of ours.
	And still the poor are with us 
		As Jesus said they'd be,
	Yet all can join with gladsome hearts
		To keep this Jubilee.

	Our Heavenly Father knew
		Just what His church required,
	And in eighteen forty-two, 
		He Joseph Smith inspired
	This society to organize,
		Which through all time will be
	A holiday for us to keep
		A happy Jubilee.

	Since dawned that memorable day,
		How much has been achieved,
	How many sick and suffering ones
		Have had their wants relieved?
	Go ask the living and the dead 
		How great their numbers be,
	Who've cause to join with all their might
		To keep this Jubilee.

	May every officer be blessed
		Who in this work takes part,
	And labor thus for others good
		With undivided heart.
	This work in the beginning small
		Will great and greater be,
	Till happy millions gladly keep
		Each coming Jubilee.

	'Tis meet that we appreciate
		And all due honor pay,
	To the great time we celebrate
		On this auspicious day.
	Nor would we close without a prayer
		Our Father, God to Thee,
	That Thou would'st let thy blessing rest
		Upon this Jubilee.

			HANNAH CORNABY.
Born March 17, A. D. 1822.	Aged 70 years today.


ADDRESS OF BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.

	[Read by Apostle John Henry Smith at the
Large Tabernacle Salt Lake City March 17,
1892.]
MY DEAR BROTHERS AND SISTERS:
	I rejoice that I have lived to see this day—
the Jubilee of our Relief Society.
	Fifty years ago this day our beloved Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society.
	Fifty years ago this day our beloved Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society in Nouvoo.
	After the organization was perfected, and


the president, Sister Emma Smith, and her
Counselors, Sister Whitney and Sister
Cleveland, had taken their seats upon the
stand, 17 members were admitted.
	Hundreds joined the Society within a year.
	Bro. Joseph met with us many times and
gave us much counsel and valuable instructions;
he said "Every virtuous woman should
belong to this Society. This Organization is
not only for the purpose of administering to
the sick and afflicted, the poor and the needy
but it is to save souls. If the Sisters come
before the Lord in humility and faith and lay
hands upon the sick and the Lord heals them,
none should find fault. If ye are pure in 
all things nothing on earth or in heaven can
hinder the angels from associating with you."
	At one meeting he said, he would not be
with us much longer to instruct us. This
made us all feel sad. His words soon came to
pass and wrung our hearts with sorrow and
grief for the great loss we had sustained in
losing our dearly beloved Prophet—for a true
prophet I know he was.
	It has been a "Labor of Love." The
sick and destitute have been blessed, the cast
down have been comforted, and the Lord has
filled our hearts with joy and peace.
	Let us take renewed courage and be more
united and earnest in this great work, and if
any one has ill feelings towards another,
banish them and make this a Jubilee in very
deed.
	May the choicest of Heaven's blessings rest
upon all Israel is my prayer in the name of
Jesus. Amen.


THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT
			STATION.

			Logan, Utah, March 7th, 1892.
TO THE FARM PUBLIC:
	The Territorial Experiment Station, which
is a department of the Agricultural College of
Utah, has so far matured its organization that
it is enabled to widen its field of work.
	During the present season it desires to co-
operate with the farmers of Utah in the investi-
gation of the following subjects:
	I. SUGAR BEETS. For the purpose of as-
certaining the yield, composition, best methods
of cultivation and cost of production of sugar
beets in the several sections of the Territory,
the Station will furnish the seed of one or
more varieties of sugar beets to one hundred or
more varieties of sugar beets to one hundred or
more farmers and test the beets for sugar at 
several periods of development, free of charge.
	Those receiving seed will be required to keep
the cost of production and yield and to for-
ward samples for analysis from time to time.
	To make the investigation of the fullest
value it will be necessary for farmers of the
several sections of the Territory to join in the
trial.  For this purpose I request those in-
terested to forward their names.  Seeds and a
circular of instructions will be forwarded to
those requiring them, about April first.
	II. ALKALI SOIL.  The Station will make
analysis of representative alkali soils for sev-
eral sections of Utah.  Those interested are 
required to forward samples.  Circulars of in-
structions for sampling will be sent to those
who desire to forward samples.
	III. IRRIGATION INVESTIGATION.  The
College and Station expect to make a specialty
of irrigation problems.  It has already accu-
mulated data bearing on this subject. Through
its Chemist, Engineer, and Professor of Agri-
culture with the appliances at their command
several lines of inquiry will be instituted.
	We desire to secure water from all of our
important irrigation streams, artesian wells,
and reservoirs at varying seasons of the year,
in order to ascertain the sediment carried and


the amount of plant food held in solution in-
cluding the gases.
	At a later date will have other requests to
make relating to irrigation problems.
	IV. The Station will render any assistance
that it can by way of identification of insects
and plants of interest to agriculture.
	V. INSTITUTE MEETINGS. The Experiment
Station Staff assisted by College Professors
will during vacation and probably during the
coming winter deliver lectures over the Terri-
tory at such points as interested citizens may
invite them and make the adequate arrange-
ments for halls. The traveling expenses in
part or in full according to circumstances
will have to be met by the locality extending
the invitation. One or several will attend
these meetings and remain for one or more
days as may be desired.
	The press will oblige by copying at least the
sections of this notice relating to sugar beets
and to irrigating water.
		Very Respectfully,
			J. W. SANBORN,
				Director.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On account of devoting almost our entire
space to the Relief Society Jubilee and its
history, together with the exercises in the
Tabernacle, we are unable to publish the next
chapter of the story "In Rural England," and
other matter contributed, but the story will 
appear in our next issue, and also important
notices of the celebration of the Jubilee in
other places.
	We hope our correspondents will continue
to favor us with an interesting variety of
articles on the various topics of the day, we
invite those who have something to communi-
cate, young or old to write for the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and help in the advancement of
truth and purity and all those principles and
ideas which will uplift and strengthen woman
in the various walks of life, and aid in lead-
ing humanity to broader channels of enlighten-
ment and a higher conception of the work to
be accomplished in the redemption of the
human family and the establishment of the
reign of righteousness upon the earth.


IMPORTANT TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The President of the Relief Society, Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, desires to obtain, for future use and
reference, historical sketches of each branch of
the Relief Society in all lands where there is or
has been an organization, the sketch of each to
include the amount of charitable work or dis-
bursements made and for what purposes, with
necessary data; also when organized and by
whom, the names of officers, and the changes
that have been made, if any. The President
wishes the minutes of Jubilee celebrations held in
each ward or place, whether in this country or in
other lands, accompanied with the sketch of the
Relief Society written for the occasion. Address
these manuscripts and communications to Mrs. E.
B. Wells, office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt
Lake City, Utah.


Professor John Gardiner, who is a graduate
of the University of London, and fills the
chair of Biology in the University of Colorado
takes strong ground in favor of the equality
of men and women. He says that the reason
Italy gave a position in Bologna University to
a woman, three hundred years ago, and that
Dante should depict such a character as
Beatrice, was because Italy was a commercial
nation. In peace is woman's opportunity.
Militarism is her destruction. No being has
so much to hope from peace as woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
   
SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 1, 1892.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	The Sixty-second Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
convene in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, at 10
o'clock on Sunday morning, April 3rd, 1892.
	At noon on Wednesday, the 6th of April, the
cap-stone of the Salt Lake Temple will be laid
with appropriate ceremonies.
	The officers and members of the Church gen-
erally are cordially invited to attend the meetings
of the Conference. Also to be present on the oc-
casion of the laying of the cap-stone of the
Temple.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF.
			GEORGE Q. CANNON, 
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
				First Presidency.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY JUBILEE.

EXERCISES AT THE TABERNACLE.

	The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of
the first organization of the Relief Society March
17, 1842, was held in the Large Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City March 17, 1892, and was largely at-
tended by those resident in the City, many
strangers and tourists were also present. The
stands were handsomely ornamented with flower-
ing plants principally Calla and Easter lilies. The
large organ was draped with the stars and stripes,
the flags extending across and a large oil painting
of Joseph the prophet hung high in the centre;
below it an immense key made of the most beau-
tiful flowers, underneath which was the picture
life-size of Emma Smith the first President of the
Relief Society and on her right a picture of Eliza
R. Snow the second President, and on her left
that of Zina D. H. Young the present President.
	Prof. Evan Stephens Musical Director had
charge of the Tabernacle Choir, who furnished
the singing and Prof. J. J. Daynes accompanied
on the organ, the music was specially fine. On
the stand was Pres. Joseph F. Smith of the First
Presidency, Apostles John Henry Smith and
Abraham H. Cannon, President Angus M. Can-
non, Dr. James E. Talmage, and of the officers of
the Central Board of the Relief Society, Presi-
dent, Zina D. H. Young; Counselor Bathsheba
W.  Smith; Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary;
Romania B. Pratt, Ass't. Secretary; M. Isabella
Horne, Treasurer; E. B. Wells Cor. Sec'y.—also
Zina Y. W. Card.
	The exercises of this happy occasion opened
with the choir singing that Grand Invocation by
Eliza R. Snow,

	"O, my Father thou hast dwellest."

	Prayer was offered by President Angus M.
Cannon. The choir and congregation joined in
singing the hymn,

	"How firm a foundation ye saints of the Lord."

[Column 1]

	A most feeling and eloquent address of greeting
and welcome was then delivered by,
		PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	My brethren and sisters and friends, I ask an
interest in your faith and prayers on this great oc-
casion, so that the spirit of the living God may
direct the few words I may utter. I now in the
presence of God and before my brethren and
sisters, hail this welcome day of Jubilee which
has been set apart for us—the sisters of the
Relief Society to assemble together. O, that my
words could be heard by all people, not only by
you my brethren and sisters in this Tabernacle
and throughout Utah but that they might be
heard and understood by all the people of this
continent, and not only this continent but the
continents of Europe, Asia, Africa and the
Islands of the Sea.
	This day we greet you and all our sisters who
are everywhere celebrating this occasion in com-
memoration of the organization, by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, of the Relief Society.
	We praise God that our ears have been saluted
with the glad tidings of salvation again restored
to the earth, through the instrumentality of the
Prophet Joseph. We rejoice in the principles of
the Gospel revealed from heaven in this age; that
the Father and the Son condescended to appear to
Joseph, in answer to his fervent prayer for light
and knowledge, and that our Heavenly Father
pointed to His Son and said "hear ye Him."
These things cause us to lift up our hearts to God
with thanksgiving and blessing. This is a glori-
ous day in which we live. It is the dispensation
of the fulness of times when all things spoken by
all the holy prophets will be fulfilled. This is a
a great day for the sisters of the Relief Society.
The daughters of Zion have met here this day, as
also wherever they are organized, to celebrate
this day, the fiftieth anniversary of our organiza-
tion and to lift our hearts in praise to God. We
rejoice at having some of our leading brethren
with us today. We anticipate having a good time.
The peaceful influence of the spirit of the Lord
is with us; it is full of life and joy.
	A word as to the duties and labors of the mem-
bers of these organizations, of the Relief Society
is appropriate at this time; as sisters of this or-
ganization we have been set apart for the purpose
of comforting and consoling the sick and afflicted
the poor and distressed, particularly those who
love and fear God; to comfort one another in
every trial of life, and cheer the depressed in
spirit, on all occasions; this is our special mis-
sion, therefore keep this in remembrance. If we
continue to do these things in the spirit thereof,
the Lord, at the time when He comes to make up
His jewels, will approve of us.
	My sisters everywhere who have humbly em-
braced the Gospel and are true to it are my
sisters. I greet them as such. I pray God to
pour out His spirit upon all of you today, and
from this time forth. This is a day never to be
forgotten because of the goodness of God to us. I
hope the Presidents and members of every Relief
Society on earth will have such a good time today
as will never be forgotten by them. This is my
prayer and desire in their behalf. As sisters we
have to work out and secure our salvation. Let
us honor the Lord for permitting us to live in this
dispensation, also honor Him for the glorious
principles of truth, light and life which He has
revealed to us through His inspired servants.
	We pray and ask our Heavenly Father to bless
these our sisters, that they may continue to visit
the poor and the needy and see that none suffer
among us. I trust our object will be to improve
in good works, that the sisters, in addition to
what they have already done, will build houses
wherein they can hold their Relief Society meet-
ings and worship the Lord. I hope that the
sisters, through the blessings of God will be en-
abled to do this; that they will continue to sus-

[Column 3]

tain the hands of their Bishops, and work
unitedly; that they will not neglect their families,
nor idle their time away, but look after their home
affairs as well as attend to the duties I have named
Let us help our Presidents and each other and
stand shoulder to shoulder.
	We are blessed with glorious privileges, and
have been. The franchise so gloriously given us,
and enjoyed so long, has been taken from us with-
out cause. It may be restored to us again; let us
hope for this. Let us be pure and upright in our
lives and do good continually; be true and humble
all our days; may we be guided by the spirit of
the Lord day by day. Sisters let us bring up our
children in the fear of God. Ask Him to give
you a portion of His holy spirit to guide you in
all things. Do not neglect these matters sisters.
See that you perform your duties humbly and
faithfully every one of you. If there is one
mother present here who does not teach and in-
struct her children properly, in such a way as the
Lord approves of, I plead with you to do so. Call
your children around you in the absence of the
father, and pray with them. Teach them how to
pray and the proper manner in which they should
do so, that your prayers and theirs may be heard
and answered with blessings upon your heads.
Warn the children of the evils that surround us.
Lift up your warning voice against temptations
now so prevalent in our midst that they may not
become a prey to these evils, but grow up in holi-
ness and in purity before the Lord.
	Encourage home productions of every kind.
Support our paper the WOMAN'S EXPONENT by
subscribing for it. This paper should be in the
family of every Latter-day Saint.
	Above all things may we so live as to have the
spirit of the Lord dwelling in us continually.
Let me say to you sisters be true helpmeets to
your husbands. Be one with them in all things
in righteousness. Let your desires be to make
home what it should be.
	When Joseph received his first vision he was
told that his name would be spoken of for good 
or for evil by all men; from that day to the pres-
ent time, this has been verified. We this day
with the saints of God everywhere, honor the
name because of his inegrity to God and the
principles of light and truth which he was the in-
strument of restoring to the earth for our salva-
tion, and that of the whole human family if they
will but accept of the glad message.
	May God grant that we may stand firm and
faithful to the truth, walking in humility and
purity before Him; may His blessing attend this
people throughout the world on this great and
grand occasion, and henceforth. You mothers
and daughters of Israel we greet you and ask
the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon you
and upon all His people on earth. These are the
desires of my heart and may God grant them is
my prayer for Jesus sake. Amen.
	Mrs. Zina Y. W. Card next read in a very clear
and distinct voice the Revelation given to Emma
Smith, through Joseph the Seer in Harmony,
Penn., July 1830, and published in the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, wherein Sister Emma is
called an Elect Lady.
		APOSTLE ABRAHAM H. CANNON.
	I feel pleased, my brethren and sisters, at hav-
ing this opportunity of assembling with so worthy
an association as the Relief Society. It must be a
source of pleasure to our sisters to look back up-
on the work which has been accomplished since
the organization, by the Prophet Joseph, of this
Society, and it must fill the hearts of many Latter-
day Saints with joy and gratitude to think of the
stupendous work which the sisters, connected 
with these Associations, have done. The great
help they have been to the Church of Jesus Christ
we poor mortals cannot conceive. But we do
know of much that they have ccomplished in


[Column 1]

their mission. We know of many homes to which
they have carried comfort and blessing of various
kinds; in which they have provided food for the
hungry and clothed the naked, and have ad-
ministered relief to those who were sick and
afflicted, God has been with these sisters in their
ministrations. By the power of faith and detection
which has attended them,a great many marvelous
cures have been effected among the people
through their prayers and good works. It has
been a testimony to those who have witnessed
these things that the power of God is in the
Church, and is bestowed upon all those who seek
Him in faith and in humility.
	The work which has already been done by the
sisters and the great good accomplished will be al-
most forgotten in the magnitude of that which the
future will develop, for as the Church shall grow
and as the honest in heart from the nations of the
earth shall be gathered, the field for the exercise
of the talents of our sisters will be greatly en-
larged, far beyond that of which we can now form
a conception, God will put it into the hearts of
those who stand at the head of this institution to
organize reforms and adopt such measures as
shall be of greater benefit to our sisters and to
the brethren than in the past. Their hearts and
sympathies will become greater in the work of
God.
	Now, it seems to me, from the opportunities
offered our sisters, even in this day they can use
an influence and exercise their talents for great
good among this people.
	We speak of charity, of relief which should be
given the poor, but it is mistaken charity to give
to those who are able to earn their own living.
Such charity means the encouragement of idle-
ness among this people, who ought to be a nation
of workers, and become proficient and industrious
in the various occupations of life. Not only young
women, young men and middle aged men, but
our older sisters also should have some object in
life and work for its accomplishment. They
should not alone be taught to use their brains but
also their hands for the accumulation of the materi-
al things of life which are essential to our welfare.
	I remember when upon my mission to Germany
of visiting some of the Industrial Schools which
are there established for girls and young women.
They were taught therein the art of cooking and
other household duties. They received instruc-
tions in these things, and were made to under-
stand, to a certain extent at least, the duties
which would devolve upon them when they be-
came wives and mothers. In these schools they
were also taught to sew and to do all kinds of
fancy work to which women's hands should be
accustomed. Other institutions are in existence
for the good and benefit of the young. It is con-
sidered a disgrace by the people there for a young
woman to grow up in ingnorance of the things per-
taining to her life here upon the earth. But how
is it with us? Among us today we find there are
many growing up with an idea that it is a disgrace
to work. Some of our girls seem to think they
are gaining great advantages in acquiring the ac-
complishments which are to be had at schools or
at home as the case may be, where they receive
knowledge of these things, but they forget the
duties which will hereafter devolve upon them as
wives and mothers in Israel. All such are illy
preparing themselves for the great responsibilities
which the near future will devolve upon them.
	In my estimation it is the duty of our sisters,
who have had long experience to impress our
daughters with the necessity of acquiring those
things which will be a lasting benefit to them.
Teach them the use of their hands, in economy,
in the management ol those things intrusted to
their care, so that when they become wives they
may not be such as will cause disunion in the
household, neither cause a feeling of disappoint-
ment in the hearts of their husbands, but rather

[Column 2]

be fully capable of performing the duties of wives
and mothers, and feel that they have something
to live for in this life.
	Here is a field, unlimited, for the exercise of
the talent of our Relief Society as well as our
Church schools. They should draw into their
Associations every young woman they can find
and teach them to love their fellow creatures here
upon earth and administer to their wants. The
sisters are capable of entering into the feelings of
their sex; of sympathizing with them in their dis-
tress, and of providing for them the proper
necessities in time of need. They should feel
that they have a mission upon earth other than
that of appearing well in society and of shining
brilliantly, because some others do this.
	Brethren and sisters I feel that God is with our
sisters in their labors in these societies, I also
feel in my heart to ask Him to bless and prosper
them, and assist them to do their part in carrying
forward His great work in these latter days.
Amen.
	An historical sketch prepared by Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball, taken from the record
of the Relief Society was read by Dr. James E.
Talmage. The Tabernacle being such a very
large building it was thought wise that the read-
ing of written articles should be by young men
who could be heard in all parts of the house, al
though the sketches and addresses were written
by the ladies themselves.
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	First organization of L. D. S. Relief Society,
and instructions given by President Joseph
Smith.
	By invitation of the President of the Church, a
number of sisters convened in the Masonic Lodge
room, on the 17th of March 1842, President
Joseph Smith, Elders John Taylor and Willard
Richards were present.
	President Smith stated that the meeting was
called for the purpose of making more complete
the organization of the Church, by organizing the
women in the order of the Priesthood.
	John Taylor was called to the chair and Willard
Richards acted as secretary. After singing and
prayer, a vote was taken to know if all were satis-
fied with each sister present, and willing to ac-
knowledge them in good fellowship and admit
them to all the privileges of the institution about
to be organized. All being satisfied, the names
of those present were taken as follows:—
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. Cowles,
Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes,
Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia Robinson,
Philinda Herrick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R.
Marks.
	Pres. Smith then explained some of the duties
that would devolve on members of the Society,
said they could provoke the brethren to good
works, look after the needs of the poor, and per-
form charitable acts. Women must assist in cor-
recting the morals and strengthening the virtues
of the community. Said it is now in order for
the sisters to elect a President to preside over
the Society and let her choose two counselors to
assist in the duties of her office. He would ordain
them, and let them preside just as the Presidency
presided over the Church, and if they needed his
instruction they could ask and he would be
pleased to give it from time to time, Let the
Presidency serve as a constitution and their decis-
ions become precedents for you act upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the designs
of the institution, let them be appointed and set
apart, as Teachers, Deacons &c., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and Sophia
Packard seconded the motion, that Emma Smith
be elected President of the Society, the vote was

[Column 3]

put by the chairman and pronounced unanimous.
The President Elect, made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her
counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary and
Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secretary and Elvira
A. Cowles Treasurer.
	Pres. Joseph Smith read the Revelation to
Emma Smith from the book of Doctrine and 
Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at
the time the Revelation was given, to expound
the Scriptures, to teach &c.
	He then read Scriptures to show that an elect
lady is one elected to preside. By request of
President Joseph Smith, Apostle John Taylor or-
dained Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist President
Emma Smith in the duties of her office, and share
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her former
ordination and blessed her to be a mother in
Israel, a pattern of virtue and to possess all the
qualifications necessary to enable her to preside
with dignity and give such instruction, as may be
requisite in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Pres. Emma
Smith and counselors took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the question,
What shall this Society be called?" Mrs. Cleveland
and Whitney advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and Joseph
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevolent,
Emma Smith and E. R. Snow argued in favor of
Mrs. Cleveland's choice. The gentlemen with-
drew their objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously carried.
	Pres. Joseph then said "I now declare this
Society organized with President and counselors.
All who shall hereafter be admitted must be free
from censure and admitted by vote. Pres. Joseph
Smith laid down a five dollar gold-piece to com-
mence a Relief Society fund and said "What I do
hereafter for charity, I shall do through this
society." Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2 cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1 00, Emma Smith, $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, 50 cts. Willard Richards, $1.00,
John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd, meeting of the Society, March 30th.
President Joseph Smith said, the members of the
Society must act in concert, or nothing can be ac-
complished. To move according to the ancient
Priesthood this must be a select Society, separate
from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting April 28th. Pres. Joseph Smith
said he was present to speak upon the Priesthood,
as his instructions were intended only for mem-
bers of the Society, he wished those not members
to withdraw. After which he called attention to
the 12th chapter of Corinthians, "Now concerning
Spiritual Gifts &c," said the passage which reads,
"No man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by
the Holy Ghost should be translated no man can
know &c., continued the reading of the chapter, 
and gave instructions respecting the different
offices and the necessity of every individual, act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her, and filling
the office to which they were appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to consider
the lower offices in the Church dishonorable and 
to look with jealous eyes on the position of others;
said it was the nonsense of the human heart, to
aspire to positions not appointed of God, that it
was better for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God shall say
to them "Come up higher," said it was talked by
members of the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they had
common sympathy, they would rejoice that the
sick could be healed. The time has not been be-
fore when these things could be in their proper
order. The Church is not now organized in its
proper order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commission given


[Column 1]
﻿to the ancient Apostles, "Go ye into all the world
&c.," no matter who believes these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all theat believe, whether male or female.
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick, let
them do so, and let the good work roll on.  It is
no sin for anybody to administer to the sick that
has faith, or if the sick have faith to be healed by
the administration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to find
fault, spoke at some length on the difficulties he
had had to surmount, ever since the organization
of the Church, on account of aspiring men, said
the same aspiring disposition will be in this
Society, and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would instruct
the Society how to act according to the will of God.
He did not know that he should have many op-
portunities of teaching them, they were going to
be left to themselves, they would not long have 
him to instruct them, the Church would not have
his instruction long and the world would not be
troubled with him a great while, according to his
prayer God had appointed him elsewhere.  The 
congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with their
confidence, their faith, and their prayers, those
whom God had appointed to lead.  Said the keys
are about to be given to you that you may be able
to detect anything false, as readily as the Elders.
If members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them, the sympathies of the 
heads of the Church have induced them to bear
with those that were corrupt, in consequence of
which all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example provoke
the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of going too
fast, resist evil and there is no danger, neither
God, men, angels or devils can condemn those
that resist everything that is evil.  As well might
the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as that soul
that resists everything evil.  You are now placed
in a situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in your
bosoms.  If you live in accord with your privi-
leges angels cannot be restrained from being your
associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent can come
into the presence of God.  If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.  The
devil has great power, his ways are deceptive.
Do not be contentious, but let the weight of inno-
cence be felt, which is more mighty than a mill-
stone hung about the neck, meekness, love, purity
these are the things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the veil will
be rent and the blessings of heaven will flow
down.
	After this instruction you will be more re-
sponsible, it is an honor to save yourselves, all
are responsible for themselves.  Then read the
13th chapter of Cor., "Though I speak with the
tongue of men &c.." said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’ virtues,
do not think yourselves more righteous than
others.  You must enlarge your souls towards
others. If you would do like Jesus and carry you
fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom, He had
manifested long suffering and we must do the
same.
	Said “Though one have the spirit of prophecy
&c.," though one should become mighty and do
great things, overturn mountains, and then
turn to do that which is evil, all former deeds
would not save them, but they would go to de-
struction.  As you increase in innocence, virtue
and goodness, let your hearts expand, let them
be enlarged towards others, you must be long-
suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of
mankind.  How precious the souls of men!  The
Society is to get instruction through the order
which God has established, through the medium of

[Column 2]
those appointed to lead, and I now turn the key
to you in the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow
down from this time, this is the beginning of bet-
ter days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross word,
but let kindness, charity and love crown your
works.  Do not envy sinners, exercise mercy to-
wards them.
	Let your administrations be confined mostly 
to those around you.  As far as knowledge is con-
cerned, it may extend to all the world.  But your
administrations should be confined to the circle
of your acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society.  Those ordained to lead
the Society are authorized to appoint officers as 
the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in your
own tongue do not indulge too much in the gift of
tongues, or the devil will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your comfort.
But I lay this down as a rule, that if anything is
taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be re-
ceived for doctrine.
	Pres. Smith then gave instruction respecting
women administering to the sick by the laying on
of hands, said it was according to revelation, he
never was placed in similar circumstances, and
never had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting, May 26th,
the Prophet read the 14th chapter Ezekiel, and
said the Lord had declared by that prophet that the
people should each one stand for themselves and
depend on no man or men; in the state of corrup-
tion in the Jewish Church, that righteous persons
could only deliver their own souls. Applied it to
the present condition of the Church of Latter-day
Saints.  If the people depart from the Lord, they
must fall, they were depending on the Prophet,
hence there was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the Society.
Be guarded in your speech, no organized body can
exist without giving heed to this caution.  All or-
ganized bodies have their peculiar evils, weak-
nesses and difficulties, the object is to make those
not so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to virtue 
and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never mention
it again, then you will be established in power,
virtue and holiness and the wrath of God will be
turned away.  God designs to save the people
out of their sins.  Jesus said "Ye shall do the
works which we see me do," these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon.
	The tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop N.
K. Whitney, Pres. Joseph Smith being present.
	Eleventh meeting June 9th.  Pres.  J.  Smith,
"It grieves me that there is no fuller fellowship,
if one member suffers all feel it, by union of feel-
ing we obtain power with God, Christ said he
can to call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the righteous
Jews because he took sinners in to his society, he
took them upon the principle that they repent.
Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to
forsake sin, as to take them by the hand and
watch over them with tenderness.  The nearer
we get to our Heavenly Father, the more we are
disposed to look with compassion on perishing
souls.  I say to this society if you would have
God have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other.  How mild the Savior dealt with Peter
saying,- “When thou are converted, strengthen
thy brethren,” at another time he said to him,
“Lovest thou me? Feed my sheep.” The Society
is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting held in the Grove August
31st, 1842.  After relating recent difficulties he
had encountered while being hunted by his
enemies, he said the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare, in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf.  These measures were

[Column 3]
necessary, and your influence helped to bring
about my redemption from the hands of my ene-
mies. I have come here to bless you.  The
Society has done well, their principles are to
practice holiness.  God loves you and your
prayers shall avail much do not cease to let them
ascend to God in my behalf.  The enemy will
never get weary.  I expect he will array every-
thing against me, expect he will array every-
thing against me, expect a tremendous warfare.
He that will war the Christian warfare will have
the angels and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him.
	A few things had been manifested to him dur-
ing his absence, respecting baptism for the dead
which he would communicate next Sabbeth i
nothing should occur to prevent it.  He then
offered a fervent prayer to God in behalf of the
Society.  After the transaction of some business
in the adjustment of which Pres.  Smith offered
counsel.  Said he had one more remark to make
respecting baptism for the dead, which must
suffice for the present and until he had the oppor-
tunity to present the subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must have a
recorder present, that he may be a eye-witness
to testify of it.  It will be necessary in the Great
Council that these things be testified of.  It
should be attended to from this time.  if there
is any lack it may be at the expense of our
friends.  This was the last R. S. meeting that
Pres. Joseph Smith attended.
	During the two years administration of Pres.
Emma Smith and her associates, visiting sisters
were appointed to search out the needy, to find
work for the able-bodied to receive contributions
and to report conditions.
	The labors of the Society were extended to the
four wards of the city.
	1275 names were enrolled as members.  The
recorded receipts were $415.24.
	An appropriate song composed expressly for
the Jubilee by Emily H.Woodmansee, was beau-
tifully rendered by the choir,
	"O blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer."
PRAYER OF PRES. JOS. F. SMITH, DELIVERED AT
	HIGH NOON, MARCH 15, 1892.
[Preliminary Remarks]
	I am sorry to announce that in consequence of
President Woodruff having a severe cold, he did
not feel able to attend this meeting and therefore 
desires to be excused.  He also desires that
the people would remember him in their prayer;
	Agreeable to the with of the Presidency of the
Relief Society we will unite in prayer.  I hope
that all the people who are assembled here will
lift up their hearts unto God, according to their
desires, for blessings upon the Relief Society
throughout all the world, and upon the Church
and those who have been called to preside, and
to labor for the promulgation of the principles
of truth.  We will now unite in prayer.
	O God, the Eternal Father, in the name of 
Jesus Christ thy Son, and in humility before thee
we thy people have assembled here, on this in-
teresting occasion, we desire to lift up our hearts
in prayer and in supplication unto thee, and we de-
sire, Heavenly Father, to draw near unto thee, in
spirit and in truth, in humility and in faith, and
we pray that thou wilt hear and answer our
supplications.  We are grateful unto thee O God,
the Eternal Father, that we are permitted to cele-
brate the 50th anniversary of the establishment
upon earth of this organization, which is called
the Relief Society; and we humbly pray thee
that in our hearts this day, we may feel that
gratitude which is due to thee, that we have
been permitted to pass through a half century,
in comparative peace, that we have been pre-
served by thy powerful arm, from the hands of
wicked men, and from those  who have sought
our destruction and overthrow.  We thank thee


[Column 1]
﻿Heavenly Father that we are permitted to meet
unmolested from the powers of evil and from
mobs, and from such things as were experienced
in the early days of this Church. We thank
thee that thou hast planted us safely and firmly
in these fertile valleys, and that thou hast given
us the rich bounties of the earth, and the fatness
of the soil for our good, our comfort, our pros-
perity and our happiness. While we have been
surrounded by influences which were not calcu-
lated to lead our children in the paths of
righteousness and truth, Thou hast preserved
us from the designs of the destroyer, and from
the powers of darkness. Thou hast given 
unto us a degree of light which has made our
hearts to rejoice and helped us to serve thee. 
Thou hast given us those blessings we have asked
for in righteousness, and power to overcome
many of our weaknesses. Thou hast given us
a desire to establish righteousness in the midst
of the people. Thou hast given us a desire to
establish thy Church in the earth, and to seek
righteousness. We pray that these desires may
continue from this time onward. That we may
live with an eye single to thy glory and labor to
establish thy work on earth, and bring to pass
thy purposes. Wilt thou look down upon us with
much mercy. We invoke thy blessing at this time
upon the aged mothers of the Relief Society.
Many have passed away and those that remain
who witnessed the establishment of that society
by thy servant Joseph Smith, are few, aged, and 
feeble. Wilt thou continue thy mercies unto them
and preserve their lives. Let thy spirit fill their
hearts with joy and peace. Sanctify unto them every
dispensation of thy providence, cause that their
hearts may rejoice in thee and their faith be
strengthened in thy promises.  May thy word
never fail. We pray thee from this time forth
to preserve thy saints, and these aged mothers
until they are satisfied with life. Wilt thou bless
all those who are associated with them through-
out the length and breadth of the land. Bless the
Presidents,Counselors and members of the Relief
Society throughout the earth, in Zion and in
foreign lands, upon the islands of the sea,
and  wherever they are met together this
day to celebrate this 50th anniversary. Wilt
thou be with them by thy spirit to bless
them, to cause their hearts to rejoice before thee. 
We ask thee to bless the mothers of Israel,and to
bless their daughters and bless thy servants and
all thy people. We would remember thine
aged servant President Woodruff, who is bsent
from us on this occasion.  Wilt thou cause that
he may be restored to perfect health and strength.
Continue the vigor of all his faculties; strengthen
him in body and mind, and wilt thou make known
unto him thy mind and thy will that he may be thy
mouth-piece unto thy people and be a father in
very deed unto thy Saints; wilt thou bless also
with him his counselors and the quorum of the
twelve apostles. Cause that the Presidency of thy
Church and the twelve apostles shall be one in
heart, one in spirit, one in purpose, one in their
views for the building up of Zion and the bringing
to pass of thy purposes. May thy servants and
handmaidens be devoted to the establishment of
thy Church in righteousness upon the earth.
O God, bless thy people with those mercies that
they desire in righteousness. Sustain thy servants
and people and preserve them from difficulties and 
the evils that surround them. May thy spirit
direct them and thy power attend them in all they
do. May they dedicate their lives unto thee and
increase in knowledge.  Grant every desire
in righteousness unto thy people.  Heal the
sick, comfort those that mourn; look down in
much mercy upon thy people.  Have mercy upon
the erring ones, call them from the error of their
ways and bring them to a knowledge of thy truth
that they may devote their lives unto thee. Help
us to acknowledge thee in all things.  Unite thy

[Column 2]
people. Bless the elements that surround us; and
the soil, that it may be fertile. Bless thy people
in their incoming and out-going. Grant,O Heavenly
Father, that thy servants whom thou hast chosen
to direct thy work may continue steadfast and
faithful. Bless thou thy handmaidens who have
assembled to commemorate this anniversary.
May we understand thy will and keep thy com-
mandments. Bless all thy people and the honor-
able of the earth everywhere. Fill their hearts with
thy peace. Give unto us such things as we most
need for we desire only such things as shall bring
to pass thy purposes upon the earth.  We humbly
ask all these blessings in the name of Jesus
Christ.  Amen.
		PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.
   Following is a synopsis of his remarks:
	“This Relief Society, he said, has always had
the hearty endorsement and the approval of the
First Presidency since its first organization fifty 
years ago. It had occurred to the speaker that it
would be an excellent thing to erect a building or
buildings, as the case might be, where there could
be a hall for the Society to meet, and which
would be in a measure self-sustaining. He did
not know whether this matter had been con-
sidered yet.  It had already been stated that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had presented the Society
with a building lot, and he did not see why the
plan of building could not yet be carried out.  It
appeared to him to be an easy matter.
	“With regard to the gift of tongues,the speaker
said, it was one very much liable to mislead. The
adversary can easily take advantage of it.  How-
ever, where the Spirit of the Lord directs it, it is
a good thing.  Sometimes, however, persons
speak under the influence of a wrong spirit.
	“In relation to laying on of hands by sisters, the 
speaker said it is a proper thing for mothers, who
have received their blessings in the house of God
to pray for their sick and to rebuke diseases.  It
is just as much the right of the mother as of the
father, although he, holding the Priesthood, can
do it by virtue of this, as well as in the name of
the Lord. The women are not especially called
upon to visit from house to house to administer to
the sick, but they can do so properly, if called
upon.
	“The speaker was thankful for the opportunity
of meeting with the Saints, and wished that the
Lord might bless the work. He exhorted all to
live their religion and do their duties faithfully.
	AFTER THE DAYS OF NAUVOO.
			By E. B. Wells.
		Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
   When the Saints left Nauvoo and during
their journeyings, the Relief Society meetings
were necessarily discontinued, though the
sisters never lost sight of the institution, nor
the promises made to them by Pres. Jos.
Smith, but continued their benevolent work
wherever and whenever an opportunity
presented itself; they were always ready with
willing hands and tender sympathies to
perform deeds of love and charity, and many
were in need of such kindly acts for those were
the days of toil, and of suffering, of scarcity
and of hardship.
   Among the foremost heroines of that event-
ful time should be indelibly engraven the
names of Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young
and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, these Mothers
in Israel with kindly deeds and loving words,
inspired many a fainting heart with faith and
courage, and ministered temporal and spiritual
blessings, to hundreds of the daughters of
Zion, whose paths were not strewn with roses,
but were full of thorns and fiery trials.
There were few gifts to bestow, but many
lessons of patience and resignation to be
learned in the school of experience.
   Early in the settlement of the valley in
1851 and in 1852 the sisters had temporary

[Column 3]
societies in several wards and surrounding
places, and though all were comparatively
poor, yet they helped those in greater need,
and fed and clothed the wandering Indians,
whom we have ever thus tried to conciliate.
In 1855 when in a more settled condition Pres.
Young called upon the Bishops to organize a
Relief Society in each ward, and gave Sister
Eliza R. Snow a mission to assist them in
organizing and to take with her Sister Zina D.
Young as her Counselor. Of some of these
branches we have no record, but Bishop
Abraham Hoagland of the 14th Ward in this
City, organized a Relief Society Sept. 14,
1856 and appointed Sister Phebe W. Wood-
ruff President; and she chose Sister M. I.
Horne,  and Southworth her Counselors. 
About that time Bishop N. V. Jones also
organized the 15th, ward and chose Sister
Lydia Granger President, the 9th ward was
organized with Sister Taft President etc.,
other wards followed—but Johnson’s army
coming here, and the move South, which
occurred in 1858—interrupted the regularity
of the work of the Society and it was not until
after the return of the people to their homes,
and when order was again restored that the
Sooiety was perfectly organized; to bring
about these organizations throughout the
several Stakes of Zion Sister Eliza R. Snow,
Sister Zina D. Young and other sisters
associated with them, traveled and labored
assiduously in all kinds of weather, and in all
sorts of conveyances to assist in making a
permanent success of this institution for the
women of Zion.
	One or two important events bearing upon
woman’s work transpired during these years
that should be mentioned in this connection. 
The enfranchisement of the women of Utah—
which occurred in February 1870—the bill
passed the Territorial Legislature and was
signed by acting Gov. Mann, on the 7th of
Feb. two days later the City election took
place and the first ballot cast by women here
was for Mayor of the City. In June 1872 a
Woman’s paper was issued for the first time
in the Rocky mountain region. the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
   In October 1876—Pres. Young called upon
the Sisters to store up grain against a day of 
famine, and in accordance with that call, fifty
thousand bushels of wheat have been deposited
in bins and granaries mostly owned by the 
Relief Society. Undoubtedly this is the first
instance in the annals of history of women 
laying up stores of wheat.
   To enumerate all that has been done by the
Relief Society would take up too much valuable
time; but the works have been those of love
and charity and performed in the spirit of
meekness and humility.
	CENTRAL ORGANIZATION IN UTAH.
			By Sarah M. Kimball.
		Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
   A called meeting for the election of the
Relief Society Officers was held in the
Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, June 19th,
 1880. Pres. John Taylor, Sec. John Nuttal.
and Stake Pres. Angus M. Cannon on the
stand. On motion Eliza R. Snow was elected
to preside over all the branches of the Relief
Society in Zion.  Zina D. Young and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney were elected
Counselors, Sarah M. Kimball Sec. and M.
Isabelle Horne Treas. (Sec. John Nuttal
by Pres. Taylor’s request read from the Book
of the Law of the Lord.)
   July 17th Pres. John Taylor met with the
Relief Society in the 14th Ward Hall, gave
instructions and ordained the President,
Counselors and Secretary to their various
positions.
	July, 24th, 1880, the Relief Society took an
active part in the grand celebration of Pion ee


[Column 1]

Day in the fiftieth year of the organization of
the Church. Representatives of the Society
occupied ten carriages, the first carriage carry-
ing an elegant white silk banner with appro-
priate inscriptions.
	Feb. 1880 the Relief Society Secretary was
notified that she was expected to furnish a
general semi-annual stastistical and financial
report of the Relief Society at the President's
Office ten days prior to the 6th of Apr. and
Oct. The first general report is dated March
15th, 1881. It cembined the reports of
sixteen stakes, and gave a membership of
12,288, disbursments for six months $3,468,31.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney Counselor to Eliza
R. Snow departed this life Feb. 15th, 1882
her honored name crowned with the blessing
of Saints.
	In June 1882 the Deseret Hospital was
established with Eliza R. Snow Pres. of the
board of directors. Sept. 1882 Romania B.
Pratt was appointed Assistant Secretary.
	Jan. 21st, 1884 a grand ovation was given
in the Social Hall, in honor of the eightieth
anniversary of the birth day of Eliza R.
Snow.
	Apr. 1885 Annual Conference held at
Logan Cache Co. Utah, Relief Society report
included twenty-two stakes. Total number
of members 16,358.
	Last general Relief Society report (Oct.
1887) during the administration of Eliza R.
Snow, members 17,002, branches 302 disburs-
ments to charity for 6 months $7,689,80.
	Sister Snow in company with her brother
Lorenzo Snow and others, made an extended
European tour in 1872 and 3 visited Jerusalem
and compiled her interesting book "Cor-
respondence of Palestine Tourists." Her
Poems and other writings are much valued.
	She traveled extensively in the various
Stakes of Zion always in the capacity of an
instructor, was everywhere received as a
loving friend and a wise counselor. As an
organizer she was unexcelled. Our beloved
Sister and President closed her mortal eyes in
the Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec.
5th, 1887 aged eighty-three years. Her
comparatively long life was eventful beyond
that of most women. This Jubilee day
March 17th, 1892, the name of Eliza R.
Snow will be reverently spoken in various
Relief Society branches and in many lands.
	Apostle John Henry Smith then read the
paper of Mrs. B. W. Smith, and A. H. Cannon
read the article of Mrs. M. I. Horne, both of
which will be found in another part of the
paper.

SENTIMENTS.
E. B. Wells.
Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
	The Relief Society celebrate to-day a
Jubilee that reaches around the world. Never
before that there is any record of has a
woman's Jubilee spread over such an extent
of country. Throughout all the wards and
settlements, in all the Stakes of Zion is this
momentous event being commemorated by 
meeting and rejoicing together in praise and
thanksgiving to God. And not only here but
in other parts of the United States, North and
South, in Canada and Mexico, on the Sandwich
and Samoan Islands and New Zealand, in
Great Britain, in Holland and the countries of
Scandinavia, in Switzerland and Germany,
in Asia Minor, Australia and Tasmania.
What does this woman's Jubilee signify? not
only that fifty years ago this organization was
founded by a Prophet of God, but that woman
is becoming emancipated from error and
superstition and darkness. That light has
come into the world, and the Gospel has made
her free, that the key of knowledge has been
turned, and she has drank inspiration at the
divine fountain.

[Column 2]

All  humanity proclaims this the woman's
era. Everything important tends to emphasize
the fact; the spirit of woman's future destiny
rests upon the sisters, and they obey the
impulses of the times in which they live! the
voice of the hour! the fulfillment of prophecy!
They repeat the hallelujah of woman's
redemption; that has been echoed down
the ages. The women of Zion in every
land lift up their voices to-day in glad
Hosannas for the deliverance that has been
wrought out for them, and the blessings that
have come through this great and grand
organization established fifty years ago, and
by means of which so much good has been
accomplished, not  only in works of charity
and blessing, but in the development of the
higher attributes of the human soul, that tend
to purify, exalt and uplift the world. And
while we celebrate this day of days let us
cherish in sacred remembrance the memory of
those who are not with us, but have gone on
before; and especially should we all remember
the three noble pioneer women, who im-
mortalized their names, and reflected honor
upon all their sex, by their undaunted courage
in traversing the unknown desert plains with
the first pioneers to this valley. Let the
names of Clara Decker Young, Ellen Sanders
Kimball, and Harriet Page Young be handed
down to posterity, as the foremost Pilgrim
mothers in pioneering Westward of the Rocky
Mountains, and remember it was their fidelity
to the truth, that gave them the faith and forti-
tude to endure. And after to-day what new
awakening shall come to us who are still in the
field of woman's work? The refreshing remi-
niscences and rememberances of the past should
inspire us with renewed zeal and courage for
the future; and with a more divine consecration
of our labors to the help of all humanity.
	The choir then rendered in full voice and
strength the celebrated English anthem
"Daughter of Zion Awake from thy Sadness."
	This grand anniversary Jubilee exercises
were closed with a solemn benediction of
thanksgiving to God by Apostle John Henry
Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

       The fourth April Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City on Tuesday evening April 5,
1892, commencing at seven o’clock. It is very
desirable that there should be representatives
from each Stake of Zion, as some business of
importance is to be presented to the sisters.
On account of the greatness of the occasion of
this General Conference of the Church and the
multiplicity of business the Relief Society will
have but one meeting, and therefore a
prompt attendance is essential. All members
of the Relief Society and all interested in this
labor of love are cordially invited.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.


Christianty commands us to pass by injuries;
policy, to let them pass by us. 
          Passionate reproofs are like medicines given
scalding hot; the patient cannot take them.
If we wish to do good to those we rebuke we
should labor for meekness an[-] wisdomand use
soft words for hard arguments.—Dodd.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D. 
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
H URS—10 a. m., to 4. 8 to 6 p. m

[Column 2]
THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year.  Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS 
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET, 
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K.THOMAS
26, 28 ,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
 SALT LAKE CITY. 
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K.THOMAS

[Rio Grande Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY
THROUGH THE.
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes, 
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES. Box 906. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 

