VOL. 20.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1891.			No. 10.


CONTENTS.
	Reply to “A Man’s Advice About Woman Suff-
rage”—Sarah M. Kimball. Trying to Solve the
Problem—E pluribus unum. The Kingdom of
God—Mary Ann M. Pratt. A Talk With Mothers
—Ida Haag. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Re-
ports—Orderville—Emery. Salt Lake Co. W. S.
A. Woman Suffrage. Washington Convention.
Federation of Woman’s Press Clubs—Ex. Notes
and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Transactions of the National
Council of Women. A Pleasant Gathering. Edi-
torial Notes. Extracts From Thanksgiving Ser-
mon. Letter.—Rachel Foster Avery. Reflec-
tions on the Past—M. E. Kimball.
	POETRY:—Man—L. M. Hewlings. The Crown
of the Year—Celia Thaxter. The Mother Author
—L. L. G. Richards. The Indian Summer—Mrs.
Lide Meriwether.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
				MAN.

	What a strange medley being is Man! 
		What a mixture of good and of ill,
	And how wondrous the architect's plan 
		That hath formed such a creature of will, 
	What structure of our world can compare,
		To this perfect symmetrical form,
	There is naught of the earth, sea, or air;
		That hath so many powers combined!
	Mighty fleets of the sea he commands,
		E’en lightning, is held by his power,
	Under ocean, and over the land, 
		Flies his word on magical wire.
	He hath trained too a fiery steed,
		Who for power and strength hath no lack, 
	Like the wild winds it rushes in speed,
		Menacing to all foes on its track
	Thro’ tunnels, o’er mountains, subduing
		The weird wilderness places of earth;
	Thus turning its deserts to blooming,
		And their barrenness into new birth.
	’Neath ocean’s bed, from caverns and caves,
		Treasures are sought for: years clinging there,
	Out from many wrecked mariner's graves 
		Man’s skill hath brought rich pearls for the fair.
	Action, wisdom and glory are his,
		On achievements he builds his renown,
	Art, and science, he grapples with ease,
		And an immortal fame is his crown,
	But this being we designate man,
		With his manifold powers so great,
	With a genius so mighty and grand, 
		This structure, whom the Lord did create,
	Has deep passions, malignant, and dark,
		Base, grovelling, cruel and fierce,
	Buried oft in the depths of his heart.
		Where no arrow of justice can pierce.
	This great being, so God-like in form, 
		Is sometimes a tyrant and fiend,
	Speculating with cold selfish heart,
		In the blood of his fellows and kind.

	Most complicate wonderful man!
		Take heed to your works and your ways,
	For to answer to the wise Builder’s plan
		Ye must live to His glory and praise.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison, Kan.


THE CROWN OF THE YEAR.

In sapphire, emerald, amethyst,
Sparkles the sea by the morning kissed;
And the mists from the far-off valleys lie
Gleaming like pearl in the tender sky;
Soft shapes of cloud that melt and drift,
With tints of opal that glow and shift.


For the strong wind blows from the warm southwest
And ruffles the snow on the white gull's breast—
Fills all the sails till the boats careen;
Low over the crested waves they lean.
Driven to leeward, dashed with spray,
Or beating up through the beautiful bay.

Ah, happy morning of autumn sweet,
Yet ripe and rich with the summer's heat!
By the ruined wall on the rocky hight,
In shadow I gaze at the changing light,
Splendor of color that clothes thee round,
Huge orb of the earth to its utmost bound.

Near me each humble flower and weed,—
The dock's rich umber, gone to seed,
The hawkbit's gold, the bayberry's spice,
One late wild rose beyond all price;
Each is a friend and all are dear.
Pathetic signs of the waning year.

The painted rose haws, how they glow!
Like crimson wine the woodbines show,
The wholesome yarrow's clusters fine
Like frosted silver dimly shine;
And who thy quaintest charm shall tell,
Thou little scarlet pimpernel?

The jeweled sea and the deeps of the air,
All heaven and earth are good and fair.
Ferns at my feet and the mullein's spike,
And the soaring gull I love alike;
With the schooner's grace as she leans to the tide
The soul within me is satisfied.

In the mellow, golden autumn days
When the world is zoned in their purple haze,
A spirit of beauty walks abroad
That fills the heart with the peace of God;
The spring and summer may bless and cheer,
But autumn brings us the crown o' the year.
			CELIA THAXTER, in the Idependent.


﻿REPLY TO “A MAN’S ADVICE ABOUT
	      WOMAN SUFFRAGE.”
MR. D. P. FELT,
		DEAR SIR:
	My attention has been called to your
“opinion of “Woman Suffrage’’ published in
the Woman’s Exponent of November 15th.
Suffragists do not recognize what you are
pleased to call “Horrid men.” Hence have no
fear of being “laughed at,” true suffragists love
all men and all women, and labor as best they
can, with the sickly tools they are allowed to
use for the educational uplifting of humanity.
	Women as a rule have listened to the as-
serting voice of men and have been led by
their precepts too long. It has slowly dawned
upon woman’s understanding that man as a
ruler is weak; in many respects very weak and
unreliable, (remember we love him still,) and
she has been compelled for the good of the
great family to explore new paths leading to
broader fields of helpfulness. Women will
make mistakes, and profit by them, all along
the unbroken pathway, but never so fatally
disastrous mistakes as men have made while
holding exclusive power.
	You assert that suffrage advocates take a
wrong shoot, start out on leaves, or small
branches, they must change tactics, etc., this
reminds me of early Colonial history. Did our
forefathers when they struck for freedom, ask
their usurping oppresors what shoot they
should take, what tactics they should adopt?
You complain that your suffrage friends turn
from you “disgruntled” I think they turn
pityingly.

[column 2]
	You say in substance suffragists will amount 
to nothing until they lay foundations on
which it will take, at least two generations to
build a structure, that will stand the storms of 
ridicule, that today beat upon our frail house,
and cause either depression or the entire crush
of the structure.
	The sure foundations of the suffrage cause
were deeply and permanently laid on the 17th
of March 1842, and the structure is far ad-
vanced. It is too stately and strong to be even
depressed by any lingering effort with the weak
weapon ridicule.
	Your advice to suffragists, to turn their at-
tention to the education of their girls is ap-
preciated. But we have our own ideas about
the nature of their graduating papers, the
routine must contain lessons in moral courage,
energy of purpose, and power of execution;
these must be taught as among the womanly 
graces essential to success in life.
	You say do not teach them to be burly
policemen. My dear Sir, if the members of
the police force are burly, there is a crying
wrong to be righted, my daughter or yours
may be placed in circumstances where they
are liable to arrest, are we willing that a coarse
ungentlemanly man should have this daughter,
or sister in charge? This is one of the condi-
tions in which the policeman should not be
without the policewoman.
	Again the police force have access to dens of
infamy where husbands, brothers, and sons re-
sort, you would have woman wear the long nights
her health and her hope away in unavailing
anguish of soul and have written on her tomb
stone “died of heart failure.” I would teach
my daughter to cultivate the womanly courage
to accompany the police to the den of vice
and help to rescue the inmates. It is to be
hoped that Provo has no need of women
police, 1 so rowingly write that at the present
time Salt Lake City has great need of women
police, Boston, Chicago and other cities have
police matrons. Suffragists are next told not
to teach their daughters that they should sit on 
a jury, we like to be consistently obedient
but conscientiously we have to tell our daughters
that such counsel comes from such as have 
eyes open to popular prejudice, and closed to
underlying principle. Women jurists in
Wyoming and in Kansas have made creditable 
records. No woman ever was or ever will be
tried by a jury of her peers when (the jury is
composed exclusively of men, (consistency is a 
jewel;) if there are any improper jury laws
they must be amended. Any man suitable to 
sit in judgment on a jury trial, will be as much
a gentlemen in a jury-box, or a jury-room, as
in a theatre box or a ball room. Thirdly; “we
must not say it is our right to sit on the Judges
bench.”
	Why not? Deborah judged Israel forty
years and Israel was blessed with a peaceful
reign, our nearer neighbor Esther Morris oc-
cupied the judge’s bench creditably in Wyo-
ming Territory; she is reputed to have passed
just judgment in all cases tried before her; she
passed the sad ordeal of sentencing a man to
the gallows, with this experience, she was no
less the lovable and loving wife, mother and
grandmother, nor the less discreet and hospit-
able keeper of the home. When she retired
from the bench she was crowned with the ap-
pellation a just Judge. At the ratification of 
the admission of Wyoming as a State with
equal suffrage, Ex. Judge Morris, aged and


feeble, was wrapped in the National flag and
brought to the front to receive congratulations
and words of commendation from the Governor
and other officials of the State, which were
echoed by the multitude.
	Our daughters and sons are taught to revere
the names and deeds of such women, and hand
them down to posterity with honor.
	Lastly; we are told that woman’s true posi-
tion is that of mother. Suffragists esteem
motherhood under proper conditions as wo-
man’s crowning glory, but for millions these
conditions are not available. Many thousands
are looking for room to earn their bread and
apparel, and asking custom to allow them to
choose their husbands, control their persons,
and participate with their kinsmen in their
highest aspirations for the good of the home,
the church, the state, and for humanity. Such
women will be helps meet, (suitable) for noble
men, they will earn the sympathy, confidence
and ever abiding love of their husbands,
brothers, and sons, and the respect of the good
and true as far as their, sphere, (influence) ex-
tends. Their noble, emancipated, daughters
will rise up and call them blessed. Life’s en-
vironments will thus become purer and far
more harmonious.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 30, 1891.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRYING TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.

	Republicanism, what is it? is it today what
it was a century ago? Webster’s unabriged
Dictionary does not give the definition of what
it is today. The next great author and de-
finer will be under the necessity of coining a
new word to give the full meaning of what
Republicanism is at present. I used to think
when a little girl listening to my father in
the exciting times when Dick Johnson of
Tenn., was a candidate for the Presidency and
the Editors were resorting to all kinds of
slander, for Johnson had a colored woman for
a wife which ’twas said was the cause of his
defeat some of his enemies published a poem
defining the political strife that was raging
as follows: that class of politicians that could
be bought and sold were mongrel puppy, whelp,
and curs of low degree. I thought then Re-
publicanism was the father of the Constitution
and the Declaration ot Independence covered
the whole platform of freedom and equal
rights to all of her citizens, are women citizens
if not what are they? Are they classed with
lunatics and crimnals, no wonder women are
contending for their rights when the adminis-
trators of this glorious government have en-
tered the opening wedge. They use political
chicanery pass unconstitutional bills, send out
Commissioners to confiscate Church property,
administer test oaths; those who have bought
their seat in the sacred halls of this govern-
ment with that demon alcohol for the purpose
of violating one single clause in the Constitu-
tion will pass away in dishonor and when they
meet the patriots gone before, their counten-
ance, will be fallen. Geo. Q. Cannon was
the first Apostle that ever graced the halls of
Congress, I feel safe in saying he never bought
one single vote, when votes can be bought and
sold such men are not qualified to keep
sacred and inviolate that heaven born inspired
Constitution that guarantees to all its citizens
the right to worship God according to the
dictates of their own conscience; when the iron
heel of oppression stood heavily upon the neck
of our Puritan Fathers, our Mothers brought
forth patriots and statesmen such as never
graced the earth, who gave their lives to be-
queathe that sacred boon liberty to their pos-
terity who are now in exile. Judge Zane
reports thirteen hundred American citizens
having been imprisoned and even women with


babes in their arms for their religion.
In the days of Herod when Jesus was
arraigned before rulers and Judges He opened
not His mouth like a sheep before the shearers,
He was dumb; when reading the impertinent
questions asked the Apostles I was forcibly re-
minded of the humility of the Savior. Women
can tell the Government how to solve the prob-
lem: let Congress pass a law requiring every
man to marry a wife and the great majority
of women petition that honorable body to
make it lawful for them to have a husband.
Motherhood is the brightest crown that woman
wears, for she not only fills the halls of Legis-
lation with her own sons, but the ranks of the
battlefield with the offspring of her own body and
yet she has not the franchise nor the privilege
of answering the end of her creation.
					E PLURIBUS UNUM.


THE KINGDOM OF GOD.

	Read 2nd Ch. and 44th verse of Daniel
“And in the days of those kings shall the God
of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall
never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall 
not be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all other kingdoms, and it
shall stand for ever."
	Daniel said to the king of Babylon that the
God of heaven had shown him what would
be in the latter days, "what should come to 
pass hereafter," the king saw a stone cut out
without hands—and it smote the image upon
its feet of iron and clay and broke them to
pieces—it became a great mountain, and filled
the whole earth."
	Now there was a kingdom to be set up by
the God of heaven, I ask, is there such a king-
dom? does any religious sect of the day pro-
fess to be that kingdom? God says "He will do
nothing except He revealeth himself to His
servants the prophets," He must have prophets
on the earth to reveal himself to in order to
set up His kingdom, why would it be neces-
sary to set  up a kingdom in the Latter-days if
there was one on the earth in which there was
power to break in pieces all others, and stand
for ever. God's kingdom has to be built upon
the rock of revelation, with officers duly
authorized to act in those offices appointed by
the revelations of God's mind and will, to
bring to repentance all mankind for all have
sinned and come short of the glory of God,
not knowing the truth by their own wisdom
neither God, or His attributes. The knowl-
edge of God came by His manifesting himself
to righteous persons, informing them of events
and things that would take place in all ages
of the world as Adam, Moses, Noah, Abraham,
Sarah, Solomon, Samuel, Mary, Elizabeth and
very many others. Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery saw the Lord in the Kirtland Temple
April 3rd, 1836, and the keys of different
dispensations were commited unto them, many
great and glorious things were revealed unto
Joseph the Prophet. A vision pertaining to
the three glories was given to him and Sidney
Rigdon, February 16th, 1832. It would be
well for all Latter-day Saints to read this
vision, and keep in mind the awful state that
those who deny the Holy Spirit after having
received it fall into, and the great joy and
blessings that those receive who are faithful
to the end, they who received the testimony of
of Jesus, and believed on His name, were
baptized after the manner of His burial, being
buried in the water in His name, according to 
the commandment which He has given, and
are washed and cleansed from all their sins,
and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on
of hands of him who is ordained and sealed
unto this power, and who overcome by faith,
and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise,
which the Father sheds forth upon all those who

[column 2]
are just and true. “They are they who are the
Church of the first born," Paul speaks of these
different glories 1 Cor. 15 ch., he says "their
bodies differ, some are celestial, terrestrial and
a lesser glory like unto the stars," Joseph
Smith in the vision calls this lesser glory the
telestial, he saw that these did not come forth
from their graves till the last resurrection,
"some were for Paul, Apollos, Cephas and say
they are some of one and some of another,
but received not the Gospel, neither the testi-
mony of Jesus, neither the prophets, neither
the everlasting covenant.” John says in Reve-
lations, "for the testimony of Jesus is the
spirit of prophecy."
	It is very easy for every one to judge the
truth those who deny it cannot have it, and
truth embraces all things contained in the
everlasting Gospel as revealed to former day
saints and Latter-day saints which is one faith
one Lord, and one baptism. The Lord said
to His disciples that He the Son was the ex-
press image of His Father, therefore we rely
on His word and know of a surety that God
the eternal Father has a body, has parts and
we approach Him as a being like unto His
Son, the Savior of the world, who came forth
from the grave with that body and ascended
up to His Father, and the time is fast ap-
proaching when the Savior will come with that
same body and likeness to dwell with His peo-
ple here on earth, a thousand years. And
who will give heed to the words of a prophet
that God raised up to testify to these things?
I consider the people that live now, will be
under greater condemnation than those who
lived in Christ's day. We have the ensample
of the Jews rejection of the Gospel and the
calamity that fell upon them as a nation, we
have the warning voice on record to the
Gentiles if they reject it, by falling on the
same stumbling block, unbelief, which is caused
by high mindedness and pride.
	Book of Covenants, "And now, after many
testimonies which have been given of Him,
this is the testimony last of all, which we give
of Him, that He lives; for we saw Him even
on the right hand of God, and we heard the
voice bearing record that He is the Only Be-
gotten of the Father.”—Joseph Smith.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 13.


Frances Willard is re-elected president of
the National W. C. T. U.

	The Countess of Aberdeen is now in Chicago
arranging for the exhibit at the World’s Fair
of laces and other industries by the women of
Ireland-

	A new weekly paper devoted to equal
suffrage, the Woman’s Recorder, has just been
started at Toledo, O. The editor is Mrs.
Claudia Q. Murphy of the Toledo Commercial.

	The Illnois Woman’s Press Association gave
a reception at the Grant, on November 5, to
one of their most gifted and successful
members, Dr. Alice B. Stockham the author
of that most helpful book “Tokology.” The
occasion was a “God-Speed” to Dr. Stockham
on her proposed trip around the world.

	The need of having women on the manag-
ing boards of all institutions for children is
illustrated anew by the case of Rev. Samuel
Cotton, rector of Carogh, Kildare, who was
recently charged with criminal neglect and
ill-treatment of the children in Carogh
orphanage. He has just been arrested for
homicide in having caused the death of a child 
by placing it in a cold bath and leaving it in
the open air all night covered merely with a
sack. In the morning the child was found dead,
with the sack frozen to its body.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MOTHER AUTHOR.

Beside the bed of her sick child she watches,
	With heavy, anxious eye;
While Time's cold chisel on his tablet notches,
	The hour of midnight, passing grimly by.

Low, bending, o'er the cherished form she measures,
	The hard-drawn, labored breath;
Sensing how near her darling is to pleasures,
	Across the narrow river, bridged by death.

But the morning breaks with a radiance bright,
And the mother's spirit is glad and light;
Broken the night's dark fetter,
Unloosed the icy spell.
For the father of her child hath said,
With hands placed on the precious head,
"We thank Thee, our boy is better,
And, that he will get well."

Oh! blessed boon, and best to mortals given,
	Who have for faith and strength and patience striven,
That they may seek the Lord in fervent prayer,
	And find Him willing all their griefs to bear.

The noon-day finds the mother busier yet,
Her house in working order to reset.
But in her heart and  brain there softly clings,
A bird-like something which forever sings.
A rhythm or a chant, half prayer, half song.
Hopeful and grateful, earnest, sweet and strong.
No time today, to grant expression power,
Too full of other things the present hour;
But there will come a time in future when,
Her girls to women grown, her boys grown men,
Will ask and will receive life pictures from her pen.
							L. L. G. RICHARDS.
Nov. 30, 1891.


THE INDIAN SUMMER.

			A FROST LEGEND.

		BY MRS. LIDE MERIWETHER.

They are coming again, the dusky Ghosts
	From the happy hunting ground;
Low echoes whisper from far-off coasts 
	Of the hunter’s horn and hound;
The air grows dark with the serried hosts
	That rise from each grassy mound.

The smoke of the camp fire slowly curls
	Round the misty mountain side;
The birch canoe its light sail furls,
	Through shadowy covers to glide;
The fisher's spear in the moonlight whirls,
	And sinks in the deepening tide.

Their oars dip soft in the darkling rills
	Where the water lilies blow;
They have lit their bonfires on the hills,
	In the maple's golden glow;
The warrior dresses his crimson quills
	Where the ripening sumachs grow.

The burning bush lights the calumet fire
	'Mid its leaves of gold and green;
The chieftain’s tawny feathers tower
	Where the sourwood's plumes are seen;
He has dropped his scarlet blanket o’er
	Its branches' glistening sheen.

Did you think you had driven him out or aye,
	Pale face, in your cruel pride?
Oh, fools and blind! his memory
	From wood nor wave has died;
His bow still bends in your forests free,
	His skiffs your waters ride.

When summer has breathed her last low sigh,
	When the weird witch-hazel blooms,
The Manitou's voice is lifted high:
	"Red men! to your old-world homes!"
Then ghosts in a thousand graves that lie
	Come forth from their mossy tombs.

And Nature in robes of red and gold
	Decks mountain and vale and plain,


And birds in the depths of forests old
	Re-echo the glad refrain
Of wind, aud water, and wood, and wold,
	To welcome the Ghosts again.

The sparrows twitter, the robins sing,
	The partridge calls in the corn,
The pheasant drums as he did in spring;
	In the hazy autumn morn,
The wild duck spreads his dusky wing
	At the sound of the ghostly horn.

Chieftain and maiden, brave and bride,
	In their pomp and paint appear;
Under the forest leaves they hide
	When the day-dawn draweth near;
You gaze on the wood in its festal pride,
	And say, "The frost is here."

Ye are mortal clay, and your eyes are blind;
	These shapes ye cannot see,
But come where the mandrake grows, behind
	The wild witch-hazel tree;
Its juices shall your eyes unbind,
	To watch their revelry.

You must come to the deeps of the forest old,
	When the midnight moon shines bright;
A lake in its heart gleams clear and cold,
	And their oars are dipping light.
I know their trysting spot of old;
	Will you come with me tonight?
						The Woman's Journal.
Memphis, Ten.


A TALK WITH MOTHERS.

	Just two o’clock in the morning and I
feign would sleep; but cannot, therefore will
jot down a few of my wandering thoughts.
	I fall to thinking and pondering over the
many duties and cares that devolve on us as
mothers in general in the training and bring-
ing up of our children, and many curious
little incidents are brought to my mind that
cause me to question myself in this wise,—
are we not too indulgent sometimes for the
future welfare of our children?
	Are we not, through our great love for
them often blinded to those little faults which 
though small at the time, in after years cause
the ruin and downfall of our beloved ones?
	Should we not through our great future ex-
pectation of them, be more serious and
thoughtful over this matter? I am startled and
my heart aches as a feeling of conviction
steals over me that this is so, and I promise
myself that I will be more careful and guarded
in the bringing up of my own little ones, that
I through selfish love may not be the loser of
them and be responsible tor their downfall.
	A few of the incidents that have passed
under my notice I will give hoping a lesson
may thus be impressed upon those who may
chance to read it.
	“Helen,” to a child ten years old, “will you
run to the store for mamma? that is a good
girl?”
	“Oh, mamma! I don't want to.”
	“All right then, you attend to the fire, and
mamma will soon return.”
	“Charles will you bring mamma an armful
of wood? be a good boy and hurry.”
	“Oh! mamma! I don’t want to.”
	O yes do, poor mamma’s tired?”
	“I can’t I’m sick.” 
(Mother gets the wood.)
				LATER.
	Mother to daughter, “Helen I do not wish
you to go out to-night with Henry Horne your
father would object very much, were he here
to interfere.”
	“But mamma I don’t see why? It is only
for pastime, and father need not know.”
	“But daughter that would not be honorable
and then this Mr. Horne is not of our faith.”
	(But Helen soon overcomes the mother’s
scruples and goes to the party.)

[column 2]
Her fate I will not dwell upon longer than
to add a secret marriage, an early grave, a
death so horrible that as I write I can but
weep.
	And now about Charles.
	“Mother did you black my boots?”
	“No, my son I did not, I have been very
busy and am tired to-night.”
	“The d—l I told you this morning to be
sure to get my clothes ready as I have made
an appointment for this evening, I promised
to be at Dick Jones by seven and it is now
half past six.”
	The mother with a weary sigh submits,
meekly blacks the boots and he is soon
whistling on his way.
	Charles is now a husband and father his
rule at home I will leave all to infer from the
foregoing. 
	Oh, how many indulgent mothers I can re-
call as I lie here writing and thinking.
	I well recollect a few years ago of an in-
cident that occurred while walking on Brigham
St., Salt Lake City bound for the EXPONENT
office, I met a pale, tired-looking little lady
who accosted me with the question, “Did I
know the whereabouts of Sister Wells?” as she
had just called at the office, found no one in,
she lived far out in the country and was soon
obliged to return home, but so much wished
to get a single number of the EXPONENT be-
fore returning. I offered to return with her
and while on our way she remarked it was a
great feast to her whenever she could get
hold of one of them. To my inquiry “Why
she did not subscribe and get them regular,”
she replied much to my surprise in this man-
ner, “that they subscribed for so much Eastern
literature namely Frank Leslie's,Saturday Night
and the New York Ledger that they could not
afford to take any of the Church papers al-
though she dearly loved the little EXPONENT.
	By this time we had reached the office and
found to the delight of the sister, the Editor
had returned, she soon was in possession of the
much coveted paper and left with a satisfied
look on her face; a feeling of pity welled up
from my heart as I watched her retreating
form out of sight and I wondered how many
well meaning parents had made this same
mistake. 
	At another time I remember of, a brother
calling at our house in the capacity of a
teacher, my husband was to accompany him
on his route. While my husband was mak-
ing ready, my eye chanced to fall on a Juvenile
Instructor which I had been reading to the
children, I spoke of it in glowing terms, of
the good it did in our household, when he
made reply thus,—
	“We did take the Juvenile, but have dis-
continued it as the children are more in-
terested in the stories in the Western Weekly,
(a paper then published in Salt Lake City.)
	After this a damper fell upon our conversa-
tion, I could do nothing but think, think.
	Oh how carefully we watch over and
nourish the flowers in our gardens, destroying
every weed that might injure or destroy a
single plant, every bloom that may come forth
is gazed upon with satisfaction. How much
more carefully and tenderly should we watch
over the sweet flowers of our household in-
trusted to our keeping by our Heavenly
Father.
	How good it would be if more of our
Mothers in Zion would talk to us through the
columns of our little home paper on this all
important subject, thus by relating one
another’s experiences and giving ideas of
home life we might often be able to perform 
a great amount of good.  
						IDA HAAG.


Love is blind, but lovers often make a
pair of spectacles of themselves.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gno copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1891.


TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	We have for sale at this office the book entitled
"National Council of Women of the U. S. 1891."
This book contains the entire proceedings of the
Council held in Washington D. C., in February
1891. It has also excellent pictures which are
good likenesses of the first board of officers and
also the board elected this year. The book is
quite large and is on excellent paper, clear type
and neatly and firmly bound. It contains 372
pages of printed matter,and is very cheap at $1.00
a copy. It opens with a well arranged table of
contents, and at the close an Alphabetically ar-
ranged index which are always helpful to the
reader. There are speeches in the book which
taken singly are well worth the price of the whole
book. Every Relief Society should certainly
have a copy, and understand the nature of the
Council in which they are entitled to representa-
tion. The speeches cover a large number of
subjects and contain much valuable information,
as well as many excellent and definite hints and
suggestions on various topics. Indeed once
reading these addresses is not enough, they want
studying and digesting; they are deep and far-
reaching. It is a work that will live, and which
mothers and fathers may with laudable pride
hand down to their children and children's chil-
dren. It is indicative of the standard, moral
and intellectual, already reached by American
and English women, and also points to the future
advancement of those who follow the lead of
these grand and queenly lovers of humanity.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	In remembrance of Sister Catherine M. Woolley
who passed away some years ago, her daughter
Mrs. Ardella Eardley invited a number of her
intimate friends of the days gone by, to meet at
her residence on the anniversary of her birthday,
Thursday November 19th. Sister Woolley in her
lifetime was quite noted for her hospitable enter-
tainments, dinner and tea parties etc.
	Her daughter Adella is likely to become quite
as celebrated as her mother in this respect, per-
haps more so, because in our day we have greater
and better facilities for entertaining than in the
early days in the valley. Brother and Sister
Woolley were Pennsylvanians and consequently
the party was pretty well sprinkled with people
from the Keystone state, there were more from
there at any rate than any other; there were a
few from New York state, about as many from
Mass., and one or two from Conn., two from
England, and several born in the valley including
four daughters and a son of Bishop Samuel
Woolley and his wife Catharine.


A sumptuous dinner was served to the guests,
and afterwards there was a sort of programme
rendered which opened with a written address by
Dr. Elivira S. Barney. The other speakers were
Sisters Presendia L. Kimball, Zina D. H. Young,
E. B. Wells, Maria L. Nebeker, E. B. Fletcher,
B. W. Smith, Elizabeth Webb, M. L. Woolley, E.
Nebeker, Sisters Pendleton and Starr, the last
lady eighty-eight years of age. Bishop Weiler
considerable over eighty, and Bishop Samuel
Woolley.
	All those who spoke testified to the many good
qualities and the excellent character of Sister
Woolley, her faithfulness and devotion as a wife
and mother, and her integrity to the Gospel she
had embraced in her youth.
	"Her children rise up and call her blessed her
husband also and he praiseth her" may be truly
said of Sister Catharine.
	During the afternoon President Jos. F. Smith,
who had been invited to the party, came in for a
few minutes, and shook hands' all around, though
he excused himself from dinner on account of
urgent﻿ business requiring immediate attention.
The party was a very enjoyable one to all pres-
ent and many things were said instructive and
comforting. Reminisences and experiences were
given that were intensely interesting, especially
that of Bishop Woolley in Nauvoo in regard to
the revelation upon plural marriage. Dr. Barney
spoke with much power in the gift of tongues and
Sister Zina Young gave the interpretation which
was very comforting.
	We cannot but congratulate Sister Eardley
upon her happy faculty of entertaining her guests
which is more than an accomplishment and gives
enjoyment to many.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Weber
Stake of Zion will be held in the Tabernacle in
Ogden on Thursday Dec. 10, and the Young
Ladies Conference, Friday 11th, there will be
two meetings each day commencing as usual at
10, a. m. and at 2 p. m.
	The Story, "In Rural England" is omitted in this
issue of the paper in order to publish the Answer
to "A Man's Advice About Woman Suffrage,"
which we consider of more consequence, and as
we asked to have answers written etc., we desire
to publish as the articles are handed in, so our
readers will please excuse the delay in the serial.
	On Saturday the Primary Associations of this
Stake will hold their Conference in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall. Presidents are earnestly
solicited to bring as many children as can con-
veniently come, and to invite all those who take
an interest in the Primary work to attend the
Conference.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward hall in this
city on Friday Dec. 18, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is desirable that there
should be representative sisters from all the
branches in the County, and all members of the
Society and Bishops and others interested in this
benevolent work are cordially invited to attend.
	Thanksgiving Day passed off very quietly in
the city, family gatherings were quite numerous
and the usual elaborate dinners doubtless, with
happy greetings and grateful acknowledgements
of divine favors and blessings; which has been
a custom in America ever since the early days of
the Pilgrims. Certainly here in Utah this year
with the rich and abundant harvest of grains
fruits and cereals, we should not neglect to thank
Him, who sendeth the early and the latter rain,
and who causeth the seed to spring up and bear

[Column 2]

fruit in the season thereof, and through whose
blessing this barren land has become as a fruitful
field, and literally the desert has blossomed as the
rose.
	The 20th of November ult. was the anniversary
of the birthday of the veteran Mother in Israel,
Sister M. Isabella Horne, who has now reached
the advanced age of 73 years; and those who saw
her on that evening at the party in the theatre
must have been convinced that it is possible to
grow old gracefully. She was dressed in black
silk, wearing at the neck very elegant real lace,
and a corsage bouquet of autumn flowers which
became her well; her complexion is still clear
and fresh like that of most English women,
and her step is still bouyant and light. She is one
who believes in cheerfulness and also in mental
and physical activity. Her husband though
somewhat her senior bears his age remarkably
well, and they are passing together the evening
of their lives tranquilly.
	The Grand Charity Ball in the theatre on the
20th, of Nov., for the benefit of the Deseret
Hospital was a complete success. The Committee
were diligent and efficient as the result has
proven. The music by Careless orchestral band
was excellent, and the dancing itself was like a
beautiful poem. The young girls who had charge
of the decorating and draping the booths and
platform with flags, colored bunting, Chinese
lanterns, umbrellas, fans and other handsome
materials, did their work artistically and it had a
charming appearance. The flowers and vines in
handsome vases and baskets were very tastefully
arranged and the effect was gracefully pleasing.
The girls themselves were more lovely still, in
simple but pretty evening costumes, and alto-
gether it was a unique affair the rustic well of
lemonade was a new idea and filled a nook in the
corner which was very well patronized. The
button-hole bouquets as also those for ladies
made up by the dainty fingers of the lovely girls,
were very beautiful and sold at high prices; and
the delicious candy made by Misses Nell Clawson,
Allie Davis, and May Jennings, was soon dis-
posed of. In every respect the ball was a bril-
liant and enjoyable one, and the party for the
children the following day was also a pleasant
and interesting affair; the day was not very fine
yet the little folks seemed as happy as though
there had been sunshine outside, there were no
clouds on their faces, and the spectators in the
side seats and galleries enjoyed the music and
seemed serenely happy, watching the little ones
in the merry dance.


EXTRACTS FROM THANKSGIVING
SERMON.

UNION SERVICES AT THE M. E. CHURCH.

	The following paragraph is from the sermon of
the Rev. J. Mc'Niece at the services held in the
Methodist Episcopal Church in this City Thanks
giving day Nov. 26, 1891.
	"I have bad my home here now for nearly fif-
teen years, and feel myself a part of the city. I
cannot help being interested in everything per-
taining to its welfare. And because I love this
city and its people, I want to see a city govern-
ment here that will give our city a good name
from the Pacific to the Atlantic; that will furnish
protection for us when we walk these streets at any
hour of the night; that will furnish protection for
our homes whether we are in them or absent from
them. And because some of us are the descend-
ants of the Pilgrims and of Cromwell and his
Ironsides, we do not intend to sit idly by and let
our city drift to the dogs. But let us be discrimi-


[Column 1]﻿

nating. Let us admit that some of those whom
we elected two years ago have been faithful and
tried to do their duty, though in a minority.
Undoubtedly if our city charter put in the hands
of the Mayor the power he ought to have we
should have secured better government. But
certainly it is another cause for thanksgiving that
the official term of some of those whom we
elected two years ago has only sixty days more
to run! Then we will lay them up on the shelf
to dry and try to put Americans in their places
who will do their duty and enforce the laws."
	The Rev. E. E. Carr secretary of the meeting
spoke eloquently and earnestly upon the subject
of the Church and the Liquor Traffic, the follow-
ing is a quotation from his remarks as published
in one of the City papers.
	"There is too much apathy on the part of
Christians toward the subject of the suppression
of saloons. When we, as Christians, fail to do
our duty in endeavoring to down this monstrous
evil, by voice and ballot, we ally ourselves with
the rumsellers. The church is in league with the
liquor traffic when it fails to do its duty toward
the extermination of the saloons, when its mem-
bers vote for whiskey-sellers and whiskey-
drinkers. If we have in our power to save drunk-
ards and do not do it, are we not responsible?
Promises and talk amount to nothing unless
backed by action. You may talk until the hills
grow dim with age but unless you act your talk is
but wind, and cheap wind at that. Oh that
whiskeyism would keep men from being put into
office! God forgive the man who would vote for
a whiskey-seller in the name of decency, in the
name of morality, in the name of reform—yet such
a thing has been done, and done here in Salt
Lake City. We have got to begin scratching
tickets. We can never get temperance and re-
form by praying to God and voting for liquor
men. We have a very good object lesson in
this city. I am prepared to say that until the
present men in office in this city change their
ways or are succeeded by better men, you will
have no laws to restrict the selling of liquor or up-
holding the public morality. The duty of the
church is to preach the Gospel of temperance
and enforce prohibition as much as possible.
There are enough votes among the churches to
turn the scale of political destiny either way. It
is our duty as Christians to turn them in favor of
prohibition."
	Dr. Mabry is reported as having taken issue
with the Rev. Dr. Carr on the question of the
church etc.
	"He was surprised, yes astounded that a
minister of the Gospel would say to the world
that the church was in league with the liquor
traffic. He objected to such a sentiment going
out from that body that the church had any such
connection; he entered a vigorous protest against
the assertion. The church had all it could do now
to fight the world, the flesh and the devil without
having to bear the burden of being allied with
liquor dealers. Because a member of the church
went astray was no reason why the claim should
be made that the church was wrong."
	Dr. Carr responded to the opposition as fol-
lows:
	"I want to state that I am backed in what I as-
serted by the statements of scores and hundreds
of people, who believe in placing the blame where
it belongs. When I spoke as I did I remembered
that I was speaking to an audience of Methodist
Episcopal ministers. I was just as much ashamed
as Dr. Iliff or Dr. Mabry could be, to state that
the church was in league with the liquor traffic.
All resolutions introduced without work, are wind
—all wind. The Christian church, by her ballots

[Column 2]

is in league with the liquor traffic. [Applause.]
Three-fourths of the people of Utah and the
United States vote to sustain whiskey men in
office. Some one has said tonight that the
whiskey men have $400,000,000 to fight their
battles. We have the votes; they buy our votes.
[Tremendous applause.] It is just as respectable
for a man to stand behind a bar and sell drinks to
damn souls into eternal hell as it is for men to
vote to put them in power to sell whiskey. [Ap-
plause.] I tell you the church is in league with
the liquor traffic. Votes count, and I don't sell
mine. Some of you cheered and cheered heartily
when Mr. Mabry resented the charge that the
church was iu league with the saloon. Yes you
all voted for whiskey men at the last election.
The church is not in league with the liquor traffic!
Oh, no! Sentiment is all right, but it must be
crystalized into action. Lord deliver us from evil.'
[Loud and prolonged applause."
	It is gratifying to learn that some protest is be-
ing made by those who have voted the present
incumbents into the City offices, against the man-
ner of allowing the laws to be disregarded. The
Mayor is excused however because the City
Charter does not confer upon him sufficient
authority to control, but in former days, there was
peace and safety in this City under the Charter;
granting however that a more lawless element has
migrated hither, it probably will be necessary to
amend that document. At any rate it is most de-
sirable that some strong measures should be in-
troduced for the security of the people. If the
saloons could go, then other evils that always fol-
low in their ranks would be abolished too. When
there are no saloons, vice and crime will not exist
as it does today. It is commendable in ministers
of religion that they not only speak, but take ac-
tion against such evils as are beginning to grow
to an alarming extent in this City once so peace-
ful and secure.
	The Latter-day Saints since their advent here
have sought to have protection and safety for all
citizens, and quiet reigned on the Sabbath day,
but how changed now, it no longer resembles the
old New England villages in this respect, as was
often remarked by strangers in the days gone by.
It is very evident now that "Liverals" bear rule.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UTAH W. S. A.

	   The Annual Convention of the N. A. W.
S. A. takes places in Washington, D. C., Jan. 17,
18, 19, and 20, 1892. Please estimate according
to the enclosed Constitution the number of dele-
gates to which your State auxiliary is entitled.
	I hope that you will see that your Association
has its dues forwarded to the Treasurer, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford, by January 1st. With dues
should be sent the list of name and addresses of
your auxiliaries. I will send you blanks for cre-
dentials as soon as you let me know to how many
delegates your Society is entitled. On this blank
will also be a place for the name of your member
of the Executive Committee of the N. A. W.
S. A.
	I enclose a copy of the proposed amendments
to our Constitution so that your delegates may
know what will come before them.
	Will you also see that your secretary has her
report ready to be read either by yourself or who-
ever represents your Society at the Convention.
May I ask that an extra copy be made and sent
to me that we may have one for advance reports
of the meeting. I hope that you will not think
that this is asking too much.
	More time than usual will be given to the busi-
ness meetings this year, and it is hoped that much
will be accomplished.


I sincerely hope that you will have a goodly
delegation at the Convention this year, and that
they may come full of ideas to impart to others,
and in turn receive many valuable suggestions to
take home which may be incorporated in your
own State work.
	Please may I hear from you on all points as
soon as possible.
			Very cordially yours,
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.
	P. S. When the Circulars were sent to the
auxiliary associations it was expected that the
Convention would be held in Washington, D. C.,
in February, and consequently there was not so
much need of expediting the work of the branch
associations, but now that the Convention is to
be held in January, the Presidents throughout
the Territory should be more expeditious, in
sending in reports to the President Sarah M.
Kimball, No. 74. S. 1st. West St.


REFLECTIONS ON THE PAST.

	I well remember after suffering from a severe
attack of sickness that nervous prostration fol-
owed; and I felt quite sure that I was about to
he end of the race, and as soon as the gate
opened I should pass through into the world of
spirits.
	I was quite willing to go thinking I had
finished my course and kept the faith and would
soon see the loved ones on the other side. But
an impression came to my mind like this. Would
it not be well to look over my lessons, and read
the Book of Mormon again while I am waiting
for the gate to open? Accordingly I did so.
	I found it more interesting than ever. I could
realize the goodness of our all wise Father to
those who placed entire confidence in Him.
	To such persons were given inspiration, some-
times by visions or dreams or again like Moses
who saw the burning bush, and heard a voice
saying pull off thy shoes; for the place where
thou standest is Holy ground.
	Even so did Lehi. He saw a pillar of fire on a
rock to attract his attention while the Lord spoke
to him. He was told of the destruction of Jeru-
salem, and warned to leave to save himself and
family. He had perfect confidence in the word
of God and was blessed accordingly, in a wonder-
ful manner.
	His son Nephi also was a man of great faith, and
was blessed in proportion to his faith. This we
learn in every instance that where faith abounds
with an earnest desire to keep all the laws of
God, great blessings attend those people.
Neither are we ignorant of this as a people, when
we did earnestly seek to know what was right and
do the same our prayers were answered without
fail by patiently waiting the Lord's own time.
Yet He will do it in His own way, which is better
than we could do it, yea and more effectual, pro-
ducing a greater and better result. I noticed
when the Gadianton robbers were sent out of the
land; how strictly did they listen to those who
presided over the land.
	I also noticed how greatly the people prospered
when humble and faithful in keeping the com-
mands of God and earnestly seeking His aid and
assistance. He always gives wisdom to such a
people.
	This kind of a people lived here in righteous-
ness for four generations after the Savior had
visited them. For He came to this Continent after
His resurrection and taught them the sermon on
the mount, exactly as He taught those at Jerusa-
lem. Here he healed the sick and blessed the
little ones and they spoke with the tongues of
angels and glorified God. Only think only four
generations passed away until pride made its ap-
pearance, and was the first stepping stone to their
down fall.


Indignant and bitter feelings followed in their
train, until one portion of the people swept those
who had been a godly and righteous people from
the earth.
	Several of the nations fell in the same way
pride being the first stepping stone to their down
fall.
	As soon as I regained my health I attended
meeting; and what did I hear? I heard some re-
marks from an aged man, whose character had
always been above reproach; his remarks were
very interesting upon some school question,
showing when it should arrive at the perfection
he desired, he would be proud to see its progress.
Oh I felt to exclaim, do not say proud; only
say as the former-day saints said, I rejoice.
	Did any of the Saints in those days encourage
Pride? Did our Savior ever say one word in His
teachings in favor of pride. No, no. But I have
read His commands which ended in this way,
"Any think either more or less, cometh of evil."
	I think it more than He taught, and there is
danger that He will not be willing that we are
called by His name, for the Apostle says, "He
resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith was told, Doc. and
Cov., Section 90 verse 17th. "Be not ashamed
neither confounded; but be admonished in all
your high mindedness and pride, for it bringeth a
snare upon your souls." Are we not in the snare?
Is not the heel of oppression upon our necks. Do
not we need the help of an Allwise Father to
make our burthens lighter at the present time?
I do earnestly desire that we all read the Book
of Mormon again with a desire to know why it
was kept for this generation.
	When this is done you will see the present day
as clearly as you behold your natural face in a
glass. You will learn how the people were
brought out of their difficulties when the opposite
party gained the victory over them.
	It was God alone who delivered them and gave
wisdom from time to time to save them from im-
mediate destruction. Nor did they fail to give
Him the glory.
	The same spirit to-day will produce the same
effect. Not only so but will enable our youth to
live upright, just and true to themselves, and all
under their care. This will cause the smile of
an Allwise Father to rest upon them; and He
will give them of His spirit to that degree they
can make friends of those who came here seek-
ing their destruction. And they will on the con-
trary become their warm-hearted friends.
	Who that ever had the gift of the Holy Ghost
can deny this fact? Our Heavenly Father can do
that which we can not. Do not fail to become
acquainted with Him through the channels which
He has given us. The written word of both
ancient and modern prophecy. This is the counsel of
		Your aged friend
			M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 14th, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.
ORDERVILLE WARD.

DEAR SISTER:
	I thought perhaps some of the readers of
the EXPONENT would like to hear from our
little branch, Orderville, as there has not been
much said of this place since it was settled.
Our Relief Society is well attended, our Presi-
dent was away this summer but the meetings
were kept up regularly.
	Although there are a good many out on
ranches this season, they have a manuscript
paper which is read once a month, it is full of
good instructions. All the other organizations
are in running order. We feel to thank our
Heavenly Father for blessing us with this

[Column 2]

quiet place where there are so few temptations.
There is not a saloon within forty miles of
here, nor any one that sells liquor of any
kind, which we feel is a very great blessing.
We can sleep with our doors open at night and
there is no one to molest or make afraid. Our
children can play in the open air any where
and there are no bad examples set before
them, all are united in training their children
aright.
	We are trying to live our religion as near
as we know how, some of us at least. I ex-
pect if we should be counted worthy to be
saved in the kingdom of God, we will have to
be tried in many ways yet to test our faith,
and if we stand all the trials and temptations
and come off victorious in the end we will re-
ceive a reward such as we have merited.
	There has not been much sickness here this
summer. There has been but four deaths, and
all these were babies which caused their
mothers grief, but not like those without hope;
for we realize if we are faithful we will re-
ceive them back in our arms in the first resur-
rection as we have laid them down. Joseph
Smith gave instructions in Nauvoo in speaking
of the resurrection of a child.	*	*	Dear
Sisters; the words the Prophet Joseph Smith
preached in Nauvoo are recorded for our con-
solation, what a blessing to have our dear little
children back, where there is no parting, and
no more temptations to lead them astray. 
		CLARISSA WILHELM, Cor. Sec. R. S.
	Orderville, Sept. 1891.
 
EMERY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake was held at Price, Oct.
16th, 1891. Pres. Anna U. Larsen presiding.
Singing "And are we yet alive." Prayer by
Bishop Frandsen. Singing "Now we'll sing
with one accord."
	Pres. Larsen said she felt thankful to meet
in another conference under such favorable
circumstances, and to be blessed with the pres-
ence of Pres. Zina D. H. Young. The written
reports of different wards were read and ac-
cepted, also the presidents of branches that
were present, gave in very interesting reports.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young said she had been
pleased in listening to the reports. Said we
should teach our children righteousness, to
fear God and keep His commandments; said
when we were tried and afflicted we should re-
member that we have some one to lean upon,
a Supreme being, that is pleased to bless us if
we attend to our prayers, we are building
Temples for holy purposes and we should live
so we could have the privilege of performing
labors for the dead, as well as for the living.
Encouraged the sisters to attend to their meet-
ings, said the blessings of God will rest upon
the faithful and those that attend to their
duties.
	Bishop Pulsifer said he felt well in listening
to the remarks of Sister Zina Young, said we
should be awake to our duties and have our
lamps trimmed and burning so when the
trumpet sounds we shall be ready.
	The choir sang "We are on our way to
Zion's happy hill." Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Bishop Olsen.
	Afternoon session: Singing "God attend
while Zion sings." Prayer by Brother Eld-
ridge. Singing "I'll praise my Maker while
I've breath." Counselor Josie Childs said we
should exercise faith and go before our
Heavenly Father for comfort and strength to
rear our children in truth and righteousness;
encouraged the sisters to cultivate patience to
bear with our children and with one another.
Closed her remarks by reading an interesting
and encouraging letter from Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Coun. Ann Pulsifer said we all have a work

[Column 3]

to perform and we should do all in our power
and the Lord would shower His blessings upon
us.
	Sister Young said whatever is good for us
the Lord will give unto us, encouraged young
mothers to teach their children in the fear and
admonition of the Lord, said our families were
the centre of our happiness, the daughters of
Zion should strive to defend the kingdom of
God, to stand firm and be faithful to the end,
asked the blessings of God upon all.
	Bishop Olsen said we let many privileges
slip away from us which the Lord had given
us and which we will some time regret. En-
couraged the sisters to go on in their good work
and reap the blessings they had set out for.
	Coun. Arthur Horsley felt well repaid for
attending the sisters' conference, felt the spirit
of God was in their midst. Brother Eldridge
said he had been greatly edified in listening to
the remarks of Sister Young to the daughters
of Zion.
	Pres. Anna Larsen said she had rejoiced
with the sisters during this conference. Spoke
of her visit through the Stake, had been kindly
received by all, and the sisters came out to
the meetings and responded to the calls made
upon them; asked the mothers to teach their
children to pray, said the test was near when
it will be known who has oil in their lamps
and are ready to meet their Savior.
	The Stake officers were presented and
unanimously sustained. Choir sang, (Anthem)
"The Lord will comfort Zion." Conference
adjourned until April 1892. Benediction by
Brother Samuel Cox.


SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A,

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in
the 13th ward Assembly Rooms, on Tuesday
the 17th of Oct., 1891. Pres. Elizabeth
Howard presiding. Prayer was offered by
Dr. E. S. Barney. Roll called, minutes of
last session read and accepted. The yearly
financial report was read, by Treasurer E. S.
Barney. Pres. Howard announced that the
time had arrived for the election of officers
for the ensuing year, which was then attended
to. Ter. Pres. Sarah M. Kimball occupied
the chair, while the following named officers
were elected by ballot. President, Elizabeth
Howard, Secretary, Caroline C. R. Wells,
Treasurer, Dr. E. S. Barney, vice presidents
First Louisa K. Spencer, Second, Nellie
Colebrook Taylor, Third, Phebe C Young.
	It was then moved and carried, that the
remainder of the officers be nominated, which
resulted as follows: Asst. Sec, Margaret A.
Caine, Cor. Sec. Emma Finch, Chairman
Ex. Com. Elizabeth McFarlane, Dr. M. C.
Shipp, Ardella W. Eardley, Lillie T Freeze,
Mary E. Irvine and Mary E Bassett.
	Pres. Howard, Vice Presidents Taylor
and Young, briefly thanked the ladies, for
their confidence in them which they had
manifested by electing them to office, which
each expressed a desire to fill, with honor to
themselves and the promotion of the cause, in
which they were engaged.
	Pres. Kimball made some suggestions, as to
the work to be performed in the coming year.
Recommended that meetings be held and branch
associations organized. Vice Presidents be
appointed in the Co. wards outside of the
City, and diligent efforts made to increase
the interest in the association, that it might
be an active one, and the result of our efforts
be felt.
	Several ladies came forward and renewed
their memberships and the meeting was
adjourned until the third Tuesday in Dec. at
the same hour and place.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS, Sec,


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

	The American Fork Woman's Suffrage
Association held a special meeting at that
place on Wednesday Oct. 28th. Pres. Hannah
Lapish in the chair. Sarah M. Kimball, Ter.
Pres., and Emily S. Richards, 1st. Vice Pres.
of Salt Lake City, were in attendance. A
large number of members were present. The
meeting house was tastefully decorated for the
occasion and presented an elaborate picture
of art and taste, amidst the portraits of Mrs.
Cady Stanton, Miss Susan B. Anthony, sat Mrs.
Kimball, Mrs. Lapish and Mrs. Evans, and
the stars and stripes floated upon every side.
	The best speakers in the Territory were
represented at the meeting, and their reports
of the progress of the Association were very
encouraging. Mrs. Greenhalgh a laborer for
fifty years for the suffrage cause, said the
women should have equal rights with men, and
there were political positions that women
should fill. Utah women should work for
their rights, for they of all women have more
freedom than any other women in the world.
She said she was proud of the work done by
the American Fork women.
	Ter. Pres. Kimball, said she was a suffragist,
but not a lecturer. Was not an advocate for
women's superiority but that women should
stand on equality with men. She then gave
her ideas concerning the mission of women.
	Electa Bullock, county president, com-
mended the American Fork Association upon
the good work they are accomplishing.
	Emily Richards said that women would
make the best jurors, especially where women
are to be tried. She did not wish men to think
that women wanted to rule,—they only want
equal rights with the sterner sex. Woman
need not neglect her household duties while
attending to politics. She thereby can make
home all the more cheerful.
	M. Garff then favored the assemblage with
the association's Sunday song, "Equal Right's
Banner."
	Joanna Patten said if women had the
right to vote there would not be so many dens
of iniquity to allure the young.
	Bishop Halliday then addressed the suff-
ragists in his usual interesting and instructive
manner. He complimented the association
upon the work they were doing. He claimed
if the women were to receive the franchise and
vote they would do much to suppress in-
temperance, said that is the evil of this place.
He hoped the women would be successful in
their attempt.
	Msr. Stewart said the time was at our door
when the women would have the right of
franchise.
	Mary A. Evans sang the very interesting
song, "Where is My Boy To-night."
	After which benediction was offered by
Joanna Patten and the meeting was dismissed.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	The National American Woman Suffrage
Association will hold its 24th annual con-
vention in Washington, D. C., January 17,
18, 19, 20, 1892.
	The executive sessions, as well as the
public meetings, will be held in the Church of
Our Father, corner of L and 13 Streets.
	The morning session will be devoted to the
discussion of resolutions, State reports,, plans
of work, constitutional amendments and the
election of officers. The evening sessions will
be given to short addresses by speakers
specially invited.
	As only regularly accredited delegates can
vote, it behooves all local and State societies
to roll up as large a membership as possible
and thus increase their representation. Each


State society that pays its fee into the national
treasury is entitled to three delegates and an
additional one for every one hundred members
of the State society and its paid up auxiliaries.
	In the last annual convention, some thirty
States and Territories were represented by a
hundred and twenty delegates controlling one
hundred and eighty-two votes, and we
earnestly hope that all the forty-four States
and six Territories will be represented in the
coming convention.
	As in December the 12th Congress to
which we have made an appeal will
assemble, the women of the entire nation
should concentrate their influence on their
respective representatives and demand more
earnestly than ever before a full recognition of
their political rights as citizens of the United
States. The necessary step to this end is the
submission by Congress of a proposition for a
16th amendment to the National Constitution
prohibiting the disfranchisement of citizens
in any State on account of sex.
	Though woman's struggle for emancipation
has been long and weary, yet her indomitable
determination to secure the blessings of liberty
has ever made the struggle hopeful, and must
make the end triumphant. With woman's
present position in the trades and professions
with school suffrage in half the States of the
Union; municipal suffrage in Kansas, and full
suffrage in Wyoming, we behold the dawn of
a brighter day for the mothers of the race.
The discussion of the great principles of
conscience and judgment in this republic, for
the last half century, has given us a new type
of womanhood, that can no longer be subordi-
nated to the caprice and tyranny of the
powers that be, in either the church or the
State.
	Let us, then, with renewed hope and
determination assemble in the coming con-
vention, and with united voices make our
demands heard.
		ELIZABERH CADY STANTON, Pres.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, V. Pres.
		LUCY STONE, Ch. Ex. Com.
		JANE H. SPOFFORD, Treasurer.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.
		ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]

﻿FEDERATION OF WOMAN'S PRESS
CLUBS.

	The Committee on Organization of the
Federation were called to order in the parlors
of the Woman's Journal, Boston, Mass., at 10
A. M., November 11th, by the chairman, Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood. In the absence of the
secretary of the committee, Mrs. McPherson,
of Washington, was appointed secretary
pro tem. The printed constitution was-
distributed and it was decided that this was
provisional. Mrs. Lockwood read the report
of work done by the committee which had
resulted in the auxiliaryship of the Woman's
National Press Association, the New England
Woman's Press Club, and the Illinois and the
Pacific Coast Woman's Associations, with the
near prospect of Michigan, Utah and Kansas
becoming auxiliary. The chairman in her
report stated that this meeting was not for
the purpose of election of officers, but for con-
ference, etc. To this Miss West objected,
saying that the object of the meeting was to
complete the organization. Mrs. Lockwood
still earnestly supported her wiew of the case.
Mrs. Sutherland, Caroline S. Parks, Miss
Armstrong, and others of Boston, and Mrs.
Rastall of Chicago supported Miss West.
It was then asked that the roll be called,and it
was found that the persons present and
entitled to vote were delegates, Mrs. McPherson
and Clara Bewick Colby, of the Woman's
National Press Association: Helen M. Winslow

[Column 2]

and Miss Armstrong of the New England
Club Fanny H. Rastall, of Illinois, and
Belva A Lockwood and Mary Ellen West,
members of the committee.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	On motion of Miss West the Constitution
was read and discussed section by section. As
adopted its pridcipal features are: Its name is
The Federation of Woman's Press Clubs." Its
objects are to bring into commnnication with
each other the various women's press clubs,
in order that they may compare methods of
work and become mutually helpful; to elevate
the workers, and to forward, by concerted
action through the press, such philanthropic
movements as may commend themselves to the
Federation. No member is to hold more than
one office at a time, and no officer is eligible
for the same office more than one term. The
annual meeting is to be composed of the
officers of the Federation and two delegates
from each club belonging thereto. The presi-
dent of each club in membership is a vice-
president of the Federation or a club may elect
a vice-president. The annual dues of
auxiliaries are $10.
	The election of officers followed. The
nominating ballot resulted in Sallie Joy
White, President, Mrs. Lincoln as vice presi-
dent. Other officers were elected as follows:
Mrs. E. G. C. Edholm of the Pacific Coast,
recording secretary; Elizabeth Merritt Gosse
of New England, corresponding secretary:
Fanny H. Rastall of Illinois, treasurer, and
Belva A. Lockwood of the National Women's
Press Association. auditor. The election of
Mrs. Lockwood was ratified by a rising
vote.
	The meeting took a recess until 2 P. M., at
which time the Federation was called to
order by Mrs. Lockwood and the minutes of
the morning session were read for the infor-
mation of the large numbfer of press women
present. Mrs, Colby and Miss Armstrong
were appointed to escort Mrs. Sallie Joy
Whtte to the Chair, when she was introduced
by Mrs. Lockwood as the president of the
Federation. Mrs. White made a genial and
effective address. She spoke of the growing,
breadth of woman's work on the press which
had been largely assisted by the clubs which
had this day joined hands in a Federation.
Individual women had lacked nothing in
earnestness, nothing in loyalty, nothing in
devotion to their chosen profession which the
world was now beginning to realize was the
noblest that could be chosen by man or woman.
Before this last quarter of the century, however,
only a few exceptional women had been
journalists; to-day there is no well conducted
newspaper without women on its staff. Women
are appreciated not only for their work, but
for their moral force, for the change in the
moral atmosphere of offices where they are
employed.
	The president then introduced Mrs. R. S.
Frost—one of the lady managers for Massa-
chusetts, who gave as a personal message from
Mrs. Palmer an urgent request for the co- 
operation of press women.
	The treasurer and auditor were then
presented to the meeting and-responded briefly.
	Mrs Lockwood said that a lawyer was
accustomed to be on the look-out for delin-
quencies,and she would be most happy to keep
track of the treasurer. Mrs. Lockwood was
then thanked by a rising vote for her services
as chairman of the committee on organization.
	Afterwards letters and reports were read
from several of the States all of an interest-
ing character, which we shall publish hereafter
The gathering dispersed with the singing of
"Auld Lang Syne."
	A beautiful noon lunch was served by the


editors of the Woman's Journal to the dele-
gates and visiting friends. It was a memora-
ble repast, one of the tables presided over by
Lucy Stone, all waited upon deftly, by the
valiant woman's champion, H. B. Blackwell
and their gifted daughter, Alice Stone Blaek-
well, keeping general watch that every one's
bodily and spiritual exhilaration were provided
for.
			Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Christina, Regent of Spain, has
endeared herself more than ever to her people
by her concern for them during the recent
flood. She herself took the lead in organiz-
ing assistance for the afflicted provinces.
	Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender received about
seven thousand votes for the position of
Supreme Judge of Nebraska. This is most
marvelous that this large number of men
should have so outgrown ancient prejudice as
to be willing to place a woman in this position
of importance.
	The New York Woman's Press Club held
its first evening reception in their new club
house, No. 21, N. Eighteenth St. on Nov. 9th.
The occasion being in honor of Mr. Wm,
Wilde, and his wife Frank Leslie. Mrs.
Croley, president of the Club, Mrs. W. F.
Moss and Mrs. S. Rosenfield received the
guests.
	Lady Henry Somerset, in her speech at the
banquet of the Federation of Women's Press
Clubs at Boston, paid a high tribute to Mr.
W. T. Stead, who, she said, had virtually
fouuded a new school of journalism. All
women owed him gratitude. This was received
with applause by the large body of newspaper
women present.
	An exchange states that Miss Rhoda
Broughton has removed from Oxford to
Richmond, and that she is "a handsome,
dignified, clear-eyed lady, past her early
youth." "Miss Broughton has been for so
many years reported by the press as being a
precocious Miss of sixteen years of age who
has evolved her wonderfnl creations out of her
own brain without any experience, that it is
refreshing to learn the above facts."
	"The successful competitor in presenting a
design for the official seal of the Board of
Lady Managers is Miss Sara Bodtker of
Chicago. The design represents a ship of the
time of Columbus above the eagle and coat-of-
arms of the United States. A circle of stars
symbolizes the Lady Managers. The eagle
holds in his beak the laurel wreath of success,
and under his wings is the ivy vine of
friendship. The award was made by the
sculptor St. Gaudens.
	Frances Willard, in her address at the
banquet given to the Federation of Women's
Press Club in Boston, on Nov. 11, paid a high
tribute to the press and to the work of women
who wield the quill, especially to those news-
paper women whose quills are not borrowed
from the porcupine, but rather from the wing
of some angel seeking to raise humanity to a
higher plane. She closed with a humorous
exhortation to all women writers to use quills
taken either from a dove or from the wing of
the American eagle.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Departed this life on the 10th of Nov., Sister Selinda D.
Bringhurst, beloved wife of Bishop Wm. A. Bringhurst.


She was born in the town of Brandywine Chester Co.,
Penn., she emigrated to Salt Lake City in the fall of 1861
in company with her father, mother, three sisters and one
brother, She was married in 1862 and moved to Dixie in
1866.
	Deceased was the daughter of Mifflin and Catherine
Palmer, now residing in Salt Lake City. She has left a
husband, nine children and seven grandchildrent besides
numerous friends to mourn her loss.
	Sister Bringhurst has presided over the Relief Society of
this place for the past ten years. She was a loving wife
and mother and a faithful sister. Her remains were borne
to the meeting house where funeral services were held, ap-
propriate remarks were made by Brothers Savage, Spills-
bury and Slack. She was then carried to the cemetery
followed by a large procession of relatives and friends,
there to await the Resurrection Morn.
	She was one of the noblest of women, of her it might be
said, fathful and true in all things she lived and died a
Saint in hopes of a part in the First Resurrection.
			ELIZA ANN SLACK, Coun.
			ELIZABETH W. LAMB, Sec.
			MARY F. LAMB, Ass't Sec.


OBITUARY.

	We the sisters of the Young Ladies' Association of
Cedar Valley, feel desirous of sending to the columns of
our worthy paper the following lines in respect to the
memory of Sister Lizzie Bennet Berry, who departed this
life September 28, at about half past twelve a m. She
was the President of the Young Ladies, and we feel not
only the loss of her counsel in this position, but that of a
sincere worker in any spiritual calling and a steadfast sister
and friend.
	She was born July 30th, 1869, was the mother of two
little girls, the youngest but four weeks old. She suffered
untold agony for two weeks, which terminated in inflama-
tion, and although many loving hands were constantly do-
ing, and anxious hearts ever praying for her speedy re-
covery, the Lord saw fit to release her from this earthly
mission and called her home.
MEMORIAL AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Sister Lizzie Bennett
Berry.
	Whereas, our beloved sister has been called away by the 
hand of death, and therefore be it—
	Resolved, that we in behalf of the members of the Young
Ladies' do sincerely deplore the loss of a patient worker
and a true sister, and that we tender to the bereaved
parents and husband our mutual sympathy and implore
our Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of His
Holy Spirit rest upon them in this deep sorrow.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered into the
Young Ladies' record, also a copy be presented to the be-
reaved parents and husband and printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.

	How sweet to rest when labor's done,
	As slowly sinks the setting sun,
	How sweet to earn the right to rest;
	And know our labor will be blest,
	And God will call at His behest
	His darling children Home.

			MELISSA WEEKS,
			HATTIE HACKING,
			ATHENA BENNETT,


<column 1>
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

<column 2>
	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.--324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS--8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY. 
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.
[Square picture stating 'RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY' with words that circle around saying 'SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD']

	THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
. . THROUGH THE . .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
	Choice of Three Distinct Routes, 
	AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENEREY
	IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
	EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.  
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
			Free of Charge.
	Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
			IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
	Genl. Mgr.	Supt.	G. F. & P. A.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple, Sir
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country, promptly responded to. 
		DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

