Vol. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1892. No. 13.


CONTENTS. .
in Rural England—A Story. Another Wo-
man’s Answer—M. A T. Senator Hoar on Wo-
man Suffrage. S. L. Co., W. S. A. Fifty-
Second Congress U. S. Faith, Hope and Charity
—Elliza D. Gibbs .A Sketch From Life—Phebe
C. Young. Woman’s Opinion—M. A. P. H. R.
S.,Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Reports—Eden.
Announcements—Clara Bewick Colby. Fine Art
of Tea Making. Notes and News.
Editorial:—An Incident of the Days of Kirt-
land. Fifty Years—Sarah M. Kimball. Decem-
ber 23, 1891—Zina D. H. Young. U.W. P. Club,
—Elis R. Shipp, Sec. Singing Mothers—Bertha
Packard Englet.
Poetry:—Missed—Lucy. The New Era—E.
B.W. For Those We Love—E. R. S. One
Phase of the Divine Mission ofWoman—Julia A
MacDonald. A Lady—Selected. Then and
Now—E. B. W.


MISSED.
I've missed from out life’s Chamber,
Full many a golden ray,
Glad thoughts that cheered and solaced,
E’en when clouds were round my way.
Buoyancy’s brightest flower,
I have missed with much regret,
And many golden hours, 
Each with sixty diamonds set!
Heart-guests of joyful gladness,
Rosy visions of delight,
Sweet dreams unmixed with sadness,
Refreshed with the morning light.
Warm greetings, kind and tender,
Charming smiles imparting bliss,
Of these a countless number,
From my path have long been missed.
I pray the dear All-Father
To grant this earnest wish,
That when from earth I sever,
I may find all, now missed.
LUCY.


THE NEW ERA.

Now, with the dawning of the glad new year,
Comes thoughts of other days and mem’ries dear;
How thrilllngly the finer senses glow,
As retrospective visions come and go;
And lo! we grasp the shadow's quiv'ring ray,
And blend it with the REAL of to-day.

And once again, we wander as of old, 
’Mid scenes which radiant fancies now unfold,
Where loving friends around the cottage hearth 
With song and jest,pour forth their joy and mirth;
We summon to our thoughts the friends we knew,
And linger fondly o'er the good and true.

Oh! hush the throbbings of the pent up heart!
Why will the tears of long-gone sorrows start?
Banish the griefs—put miseries aside—
Let joy replete in merry measure glide—
Yet, pause! methinks I hear the people say,
Another era has begun today.
E. B. W.


FOR THOSE WE LOVE.

Tis joy to work for those we love,
	To know our effort makes their care the less.
For our small sacrifices prove,
	So much of loving tenderness.

For those we love no task’s too great—
	For task it truly ceases then to be,
When little needs we can anticipate—
	And leave beloved ones from sorrow free.

For those we love we work and live,
	To us their lives are Heaven’s choicest gift


That make us e'en forget ourselves,
	And from our selfish aims our feelings lift.

For those we love we breathe a prayer
	To keep them safe from every ill,
Receive our Father’s tender care,
	And know and do His holy will.

For those we love, Alas! the dying year
	Has brought so much of pain and care,
We fain would dry the saddening tear—
	And all their cares and sorrows share.

For those we love we wish the glad New Year
	To dawn with rich effulgence bright!
And as its fleecy pinions flutter near
	To give a glimpse of Heaven’s radiant light.

And who are they? with this touch of art,
	To wake affections sweetest thought.
Go thou and ask each loving Mother-heart—
	For there the perfect love is wrought.
E R. S.


ONE PHASE OF THE DIVINE MISSION
OF WOMAN.

This little sphere, in pristine youth, 
	Tho’ to perfection nearly brought
Still something lacked, to make, in sooth,
	That perfect home the Maker sought.

Transplanted from the realms above,
	Adam, of godly form and mind,
Reigned o’er his kingdom new, with love,
	Yet longed for that he could not find. 

With sympathy the Architect
	Divined his cause of dire distress—
And sent an helpmeet to perfect, 
	His earthly peace and happiness.

A helpmeet mind you not a slave;
	A queen, a priestess if you will:
With him to stand, with him to brave,
	Whate’er betide of good or ill.

Though to perfect a noble plan,
	She fell from favor; Grace Divine
With justice free, removed the ban
	And bade her found a royal line.

"Thy seed,’’ take note, the woman's seed.
	"Thy seed shall crush the serpent’s head;”
By her enslaved—by woman freed!
	Mankind to life e'er-lasting led.

Descended David's royal line,
	Mary, thrice blest of all thy sex;
We count thy mission all divine,
	And to thy cause ourselves annex!
 
The cause of woman! Her to raise
	To equal plane with brother man,
As helpmeet, friend; with meed for praise,
	According to the great, first plan.
JULIA A. MACDONALD.
Dec. 30, 1891.


[Column 1]
﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
VII.
	The morning dawned dull and heavy, after
that eventful evening when Lady Walton, the
proud aristocrat had stolen into the grounds
of her former lover, and for many years bitter
enemy, to intercede for her darling son at his
particular request. The young man believed
that had it not been for the interposition of
his sweetheart’s prudish cousin all would have
gone on well with him but she had raised an
[Column 2]
insurmountable barrier, had watched her
cousin, followed her wanderings in the green
fields and shady groves, and had intercepted
the letters, and closed the doors of the old
castle against him. Something must be done
he was in despair, he appealed to his mother
for he knew full well her intense love and de-
votion to him would give her the necessary
courage "to beard the lion in his den;" but he
knew not what he was asking, he was not
aware when he entreated her to go to Sir Ed-
ward and use her persuasive eloquence, of the
hatred between the two families;he had supposed
that the Baronet's idiosyncracies were the cause
of the estrangement between Sir Edward and
his neighbors, as none of the gentle folks round
about were on intimate terms at the Castle.
Sir Edward and his daughter lived in such ex-
clusive retirement that little was known of his
home life.
	When Lady Walton decided to go and ask
Sir Edward's permission for her son
to visit there as Lady Anna's suitor, she felt
no apprehension of her clandestine visit being
discovered,she knew her own purity of motive,
and her husband was away on business, and
was not expected to return for some days, and
she had no forebodings of evil on his account.
In fact though he had been very jealous the
first few years of their married life. he had
never had the slightest occasion to mistrust
her fidelity in thought, word or deed.
	Lady Walton gave her orders to the coach-
man and he drove rapidly across the bleak
strip of country that lay between the estate of
Sir Edward and her own, on that night after
the painful and embarrassing interview, and
reached the Hall almost immediately after her
husband's unexpected return; in fact she had
noticed a carriage a short distance from their
gateway, but had not observed it closely, so
much was she absorbed in her own thoughts;
she was therefore much disconcerted when on
entering the hallway she found a gentle-
man's traveling bag and wraps, and was met
by her maid, who informed her that his lord-
ship had just arrived and finding her from
home, had inquired whither she had gone, and
was met by the reply, that they did not know;
he had found the young master and questioned
him. Lady Walton was in a quandary,
'what had Maitland told his father how could
she ascertain?" but she did not have long to
consider, for the impatient husband having
heard the carriage wheels sent word for her to
come up to his room, she threw off the cloak
and vail she had worn as a sort of disguise to
conceal her features,and hurriedly entered her
husband's presence, not like one who feared
him, but with a face beaming with smiles and
greeting him most affectionately said, "Dear
Henry how delighted I am to see you, I was
thinking how lonely I should be here tonight,
and now all my fears are dispelled, but are
you not well, that you have come so soon?"
Lord Walton had been uncomfortable and in
fact annoyed when he found his wife out on
his coming home, as most men are, for how-
ever uncertain the coming may be, men always
anticipate the wife waiting for them, and she
had entirely disarmed him of any complaining
by her sweet manner and self-possession. All
his misapprehensions vanished and he
answered her question as he would have done
had he found her sitting alone with her needle-
work.
	Later on in the evening he noticed how


[Column 1]

quiet she seemed and taking her in his arms
he looked into her face and said "Helen have
you been crying, your eyes are heavy and
swollen, is there anything the matter? Are
you not glad I am safe at home once more?,'
She answered him confidently, "Yes Henry I
am truly glad you are here again in our own
happy home-nest, I think I am not very well,
your coming is indeed opportune, for I am in
some anxiety about our boy, he is restless and
dissatisfied and needs a change." The father
loved his son with a pride as great, and as deep
as such a man could, but it was the pride of
name, of rank of honors, not the tender love
that seeks the true happiness of the beloved
object.
	He knew that in him the hope of succession
to title, wealth and estates centered when he
should pass away. Like Sir Edward with
Anna he thought him still a child, and now
when his mother had spoken of him; he laughed,
"foolish, fond, over fond mother," he said, "why
the boy is well I have seen him tonight, and
strange enough now I remember he spoke
similarly of you, said you needed a change,
was restless, had gone for a drive across the
country, and when I asked why he had al
lowed you to go alone, replied it was your
own wish to go unattended. It struck me
curiously at the moment I confess, but when
I heard you come in directly after I forgot
everything in the joy of meeting." Lady
Walton was relieved, she knew now the excuse
that had been made for her absence, and she
realized that she must make some further ex-
planation. The servant announced supper and
Lady Walton ordered it brought up here,
for she was weary and troubled, strive to dis-
guise it as she might. She was glad even of
this little break in the conversation, it gave
her time, and her head ached and her temples
throbbed painfully, she wondered at herself
that she could bear up at all.
	Finally she asked "Henry how did you
find your business in London, was everything
satisfactory? Did you see any of our friends
there or were you too much occupied?" "I
saw very little, did not make any calls, but
heard a piece of news that surprised me greatly
in which you may possibly take some interest,
it was about Sir Edward Hilliard, our old
neighbor over there, I saw his lawyer, Burke
of the firm of Burke and Hemenway, he told
me the story, and all about the family; we who
live almost within a stones's throw know less
about our neighbor's affairs than those at a
distance, you know the old saying. Helen 'go
from home to hear the news,' well it proved
true in this case, for I was not aware the
Baronet kept up such an elaborate establish-
ment."
	At the name of Sir Edward, Lady Walton
had trembled, but as her husbaud rattled on she
gradually recovered herself, so much so as to
inquire with self-complacency, what this
strange story was about, and her husband who
was now busy with his supper, stopped to tell
her what he had heard; the substance of which
was, that as the old gentleman had been so
penurious, he had managed to save quite a sum
of money, but had been seriously ill recently
and had made his will, for he had no son and
was fearful lest his daughter should on coming
into possession of the estate, be induced to ac-
cept the hand of some fortune-hunter, etc., be-
sides added the speaker he never has cared for
the daughter and he wanted some other dis-
posal made of a portion of his means while he
was of sound mind, for it is said, he might die
at any moment or lose his mind, he goes into
such violent paroxysms of passion whenever
he is crossed in any thing; his sister died not
long ago, did you know her Helen?" but with-
out waiting for his wife to reply to his question
continued "she married a poor man, a clergy-
man, I think named Conway, they lived in

[Column 2]

Hampton somewhere, and he brought his
niece back with him after the funeral, a deuced
clever young woman, Burke tells me, a fine
manager, and a capital nurse, and the cranky
old man is quite taken up with her, thinks he
can't do without her at all, in fact he is going
abroad, and intends to take her with him."
	"And his daughter too?" inquired Lady
Walton as unconcerned as possible. "O, I sup-
pose so, but his friends say he has no affection
for her never has had, he was so disappointed
when she was born because she was not a boy.
I can't blame the old fellow though I think
I should have been wofully disappointed if our
first had been a girl, and especially now as
there seems no prospect of any more."
	A lull in the conversation followed and the
supper table was cleared, when the door was
closed after the servants, Lady Walton and
her husband talked a little of trifles, home
matters of no particular importance and
the lady began to feel as if she must speak of
Maitland to his father knowing that on the
following day he was to go to the Baronet, and
that as his father had just returned, he would
wonder at his leaving home. Very little more
was said that evening and Lady Walton had
no opportunity of mentioning Maitland except
in a casual way, but she expressed herself
quite enthuiastically on the subject alluded to
by her husband concerning male heirs; for
although she lived long ago she held the
opinion that girls should inherit equally with
boys; in this she was in advance of her time,
and yet she knew that no such advantages of
education were given to girls as the other sex
enjoyed. She was somewhat relieved when
the hour for retiring came, she excused herself
temporarily to get away for a few minutes to
to speak with her boy, knowing how anxious
he would be to know the result of her inter-
view at the Castle. She found him in his
room pacing up and down as men are wont to
do when perplexed or vexed, and related as
briefly as possible what had taken place and
that he was to call on Sir Edward on the
morrow. The young man was elated with
what seemed to him good tidings, but his ardor
cooled when his mother spoke of the probable
difficulty he would have on account of his
father's being at home.
	"I'll be off early and look after some busi-
ness in town and return that way and it will
not take so very long, I hope that the Baronet
will look favorably upon me, and, there is no
reason why he should refuse me is there?"
"Only you are both so young only children,
but good night, and success to you my boy,"
and affectionately embracing each other,
mother and son parted for the night. Lady
Walton's love for her boy amounted almost
to adoration. He was a fine looking specimen
and his gentle blood was easily distinguished
in his manly bearing and magnificent presence.
She knew he could marry the most beautiful
and accomplished lady in the society of which
she herself was a central figure; but this young
creature who had not even made her debut had
so fascinated him, that he had no eyes or ears
for the many dazzling beauties that thronged
the fashionable places where Maitlaud was al-
ways a welcome favorite.
	Lady Walton was a conscientious woman
notwithstanding her love of pleasure and of
popularity, and she queried in her own mind
whether it was right after all to encourage
Maitland in going farther with this affair, now
that his father was at home; she had taken the
initiative step on the impulse of the moment
as it were because of his intercession, but look-
ing at it now in a calmer way, it seemed wrong;
and she slept little that night in consequence.
	The morning found her still undecided as to
what her duty in the matter was, and she was
ill at ease. She wished her husband would
tell her something further of Sir Edward's

[Column 3]

plans, it might open the way, but she had not
the courage to venture upon the matter her-
self, for they had not mentioned his name be-
fore for years, though their lands were not far
apart. Her husband had asked if she knew
Sir Edward's sister, how well she remembered
her, what a lovely character she was, and un-
til now she had not known of her death; it
brought back many tender memories. And
now she knew who this independent young wo-
man was who had obtained the interview for
her, and that had refused to allow Maitland
entrance to the house. "What will she think
of me, this scrupulously exact young woman,"
she asked herself; but it was all in vain she
had no advisor, she was afraid to go to her
husbaud and tried to justify the part she had
taken in the affair. Looking from the window
she saw Maitland ride into the court below
and dismount, she watched him coming toward
the house, his eyes were downward and his
manner thoughtful, she feared he had met with
disappointment; on the way to his mother's room
he encountered his father, she heard their
voices but could not distinguish words, a few
moments later he came up and before Lady
Walton could speak he poured out to her such
a tale, she would fain have silenced him but
her pride forbade her. After listening to his
recital the mother said, you have not told me
Maitland if your visits to Lady Anna are to
be continued or if you even saw her." "No
mother I have not told you, nor do I know
myself, but I saw her for a brief moment,
knowing I was there she waited for me out-
side the gate. Her father will take her to Italy
soon, and mother I must contrive to go there
too." "Poor boy," said his mother despond-
ingly "you must open your heart to your father
I cannot do more, he must know your inten-
tions."
	Meantime all was bustle and noise at the
Castle preparatory to leaving on a long
journey. Jane was as delighted as a child
with the anticipation of travel in a foreign
land, and Lady Anna would have been, but
for her pining and longing for young Walton.
That morning when he came to the house she
had heard her father's voice in loud tones, and
alarmed lest he was too much excited, had in-
quired of his valet who was with him? on being
told it was a dashing, young man she guessed
the rest, though she was not aware of the
stolen visit of the unknown lady the night be-
fore; determined to see him, as well as to ascer-
tain the result of his coming, she wrapped
herself up, and went out into the grounds un-
observed to watch for him. She was utterly re-
gardless of "the proprieties" her cousin Jane
talked of, and when she reached the park
through which she knew he must pass on his
way home, she flew along under the great trees
that swayed and sighed mournfully, filling her
faint heart with vague apprehensions of com-
ing evil.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The nine lady managers resident in Chicago,
called together by Mrs. Potter Palmer, have
decided to establish a model sanitary kitchen
in the woman's building at the Exposition.
An effort will be made, by a special entertain-
ment or otherwise, to raise the $4,000 neces-
sary.
	"The Woman's Real Estate Association"
was organized in Indianapolis, Ind., a few
weeks ago, and incorporated with $5,000
capital stock. Its purpose is to deal in real
estate, both as rental agents and as speculators,
and it already has considerable property
placed under its control. The members are
ladies of standing. Mrs. Leon Bailey, who
holds a prominent place in the literary and
musical circles of the city is president of the
association.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LADY.

I know, a lady in this land,
Who carries a Chinese fan in her hand;
But in her heart does she carry a thought
Of her Chinese sister, who carefully wrought
The dainty, delicate, silken toy
For her to admire and to enjoy.

This lady has on her parlor floor
A lovely rug, from Syrian shore;
Its figures are woven with curious art;
I wish that my lady had in her heart
One thought of love for those foreign homes.
Where the light of the Gospel never comes.

To shield my lady from chilling draft
Is a Japanese screen of curious craft;
She takes the comfort its presence gives,
But in her heart, not one thought lives,
Not even one little thought ah me!—
For the comfortless homes that lie over the sea.

My lady in gown of silk is arrayed
The fabric soft was in India made.
Will she think of the country whence it came?
Will she make an offering in His Name?
To send the perfect, heavenly dress,
The mantle of Christ's own righteousness?
To those who are poor and sad and forlorn,
To those that know not that Christ is born?
			Woman's Work for Woman.


THEN AND NOW.

On holidays and such like festive times,
	We gather up the shreds of other years.
And sometimes weave them into dainty rhymes,
	Albeit dotted, not with ink, but tears;
For we recall the bitter and the sweet—
	Dark lines, you know, make pictures more complete.

May be we hide these fancy sketches fair,
	From other eyes in the securest place;
And all the while a smiling face we wear,
	That e'en our friends a vestige may not trace
Of that we hold so sacred and apart,
	Entwined within the tendrils of the heart.

It may be more of sorrow, than of bliss.
	No matter, 'tis a link in love's dear chain,
A "part and parcel" of that happiness
	Which often comes through the severest pain.
We know perhaps, how years have sanctified
	The secret which so jealously we hide.

But ah, methinks I'm dreaming when I say,
	So many years, and oh, so long ago!
It only seems to me but yesterday,
	And yet, 'tis longer far, I can but know.
For many dim old pictures do I find—
	Historic relics, crowded in my mind.

Perchance it would be well to illustrate
	Some of these histories at the present time;
I do not know why one should hesitate,
	As old things now are reckoned "half sublime.”
But if we-tell old stories o’er again,
	Retouch them carefully with modern pen.

Yes, there are many critics now-a-days.
	Who pick in pieces what they could not do,
And seldom volunteer a word of praise, 
	E'en though the work is beautiful and true.
One need be brave, if he would truth rehearse,
	A real story, polished up in verse.

Sure, I’ve been wand'ring, if I did not dream.
	Over the hills, and very far away;
And I’m afraid its not a fitting theme
	I've chosen for the happy New Year's day;
For I've been thinking of deserted halls,
	With faded garlands hanging on the walls.

Well, let us welcome in 'the glad New Year,"
	For there is much to make it bright and gay,
And banish from us every doubt and fear, 
	And live within the present, just to-day;
And like the modest lilies, take no thought
	With what the uncertain future may be fraught.
			E. B. W.


ANOTHER WOMAN'S ANSWER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Noting you wish to hear other views upon
those articles on the Woman Suffrage question
given in the Exponent of Nov. 15th, I will
give my opinion as it occurred or rather was
presented to my mind, but think probably be-
fore this you have heard from those who are
better able to treat upon this to me interesting
subject. I was proud to hear from such an
observer as D. P. Felt, upon this question and
consider his ideas very good treating upon
Mother's sphere and her ability to do good,
and her God-given right to stand side by side
with her husband in all that pertains to theirs
and their children's welfare, and I say chil-
dren's children and humanity generally and
she should have a voice in making the laws
that are to govern her and her family and to
be privileged to cast her vote for the President
of the nation whose citizen she is woman is
capable of exerting great good, we can see
what she has done, is doing, and is likely to
do.
	I differ a little from D. P. F. in thinking
that woman has not already laid a good
foundation for the emancipation of her sex.
it may not be of such massive proportions as
we are sanguine it will attain to, but it is
nevertheless constructed, and upon a firm
basis for are we not living in a dispensation of
the fulness of times when God has revealed
himself and all that was lost is being restored,
on reliable ground? did not the Prophet Joseph
turn the key showing wherein woman can be
exalted with her husband and work just as
intelligently?
	Not wishing to trespass too much upon the
columns of our paper I will briefly refer to
the communication of Mrs. Etta L. Gilchrist,
which plainly sets forth what has been
achieved by the united effort of women in this
the nineteenth century see if a pretty solid
foundation has not already been established
towards freeing woman from the shackles of
benighted ages, and placing her where her
light can shine; the main branches fruitful
with leaves opening in various fields and avo-
cations for her further advancement; the read-
ing and cultured woman knows her proper
place by intuition and natural instinct; if her
brother will only take her by the hand she
knows where to plant her footprints.
	The work has begun and in an enlightened
age, that is to revolutionize the world and
contempary mankind man is not without the
woman nor the woman the man in the Lord
Notice what has been accomplished by women
in the United States and elsewhere, and you
cannot convince me it has been done without a
foundation, read the statistics in Mrs. Gil-
christ's article and find that a firm foundation
is laid and the structure surely being erected
that other generations can add to and substan-
tiate, that will reflect credit upon this our age
we are to go on to perfection, laying one stone
upon another until the perfect day hoping to
hear from others upon this important and
never to be lessened project.
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
			M. A. T.
	Provo, Dec. 7th, 1891.


SENATOR HOAR ON WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.

	But it is said that our election processes are
unfit for her partaking. I suppose that is
largely true. I suppose the violence or the
cheating which prevail in some parts of this
country, and which have their allies and
apologists in other parts of the country, are
totally inconsistent with the purity and th


delicacy of women. They are totally incon-
sistent also with the honor and honesty of men.
	We propose when woman suffrage is estab-
lished, if not before, to put an end to these
things. I should not like to have any lady of
my household jostled by the rough crowd in
the criminal parts of a great city, or cast her
vote through a shutter of a beer shop. I do
not think that I ought to be asked or com-
pelled to be exposed to the same thing myself.
But I can not see why we can not easily
change all these things where they exist, so
that a woman can go to the polls as comfort-
ably and agreeably as she goes to church.
The Australian ballot, where it has been in-
troduced, has gone far to accomplish all this
already.
	But I believe that the Republic will never
reach the lofty ideal of the conception of our
fathers; it will never attain the high moral
quality which will be alike its strength and its
safety, until that quality shall be given to it
by the help and co-operation of woman. She
who

	"Stays all the fair young planet in her hands."

will then contribute all her full share to what-
ever of glory or honor shall be found in our
story. The moral temperament, which de-
termines permanently the history of any com-
munity, is given to it by its women. Whether
it be true, as physiologists tell us, that as a
rule the mental and moral qualities of chil-
dren come from the mother and the physical
only from the father, it is at least true that
children learn to follow what is excellent in
the example of their fathers from the teaching
of their mothers. If our children in future
generations are to imitate whatever there has
been of heroism in their ancestors; if they are
to love their country; if they are to be brave,
free, generous, gentle, they must learn the
lesson as their fathers learned it at their
mother's knee. No nation, no city, no house-
hold ever took a lofty place, where the influ-
ence of woman did not inspire it with the
heroic temper. But this influence can only be
exerted by woman to its fullest extent when
she shares the responsibility, and takes her
proper and fair part in the conduct of the
State which she is to influence.


S. L. CO., W. S. A.

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms on Tuesday,
Dec. 15, 1891. Pres. Elizabeth Howard in
the chair. The first exercise was a song read
by the President. Prayer was offered by
Mary E. Irvine. Comments on the Constitu-
tion by Elizabeth Price.
	Adella Eardley was elected Secy. pro tem.
Pres. E. Howard made some interesting re-
marks on the Constitution, thought we should
teach our sons to be honest, honor-
able men, and educate our girls in the same
manner. Made further remarks in regard to
honesty, indebtedness etc., regretted more
ladies did not attend.
	Minutes of the previous meeting were then
read, and with one amendment approved.
	Maggie Bassett then favored the assembly
with a song. Reading from Robert's Rules of
Order by Maggie Bassett. Political clippings
by Adella Eardley.
	Speech by Nellie C. Taylor, upon the order
and system which govern our meetings, and
 the great need of woman uplifting and sus-
taining woman.
	Phoebe C. Young gave a short address.
Pres. Howard made a few closing remarks.
Meeting adjourned untill the third Tuesday in
Jan. at the same hour and place.
			ADELLA EARDLEY, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.   A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	JANUARY 1, 1892.


[Column 1]

AN INCIDENT OF THE DAYS OF
KIRTLAND.

	In the early days of the Church in Kirtland the
Latter-day Saints were generally very zealous in
good works, and very united; they were as
humble as little children, and loved one another
with that peculiar love that the Gospel always
creates, inspires and fosters; and they were de-
sirous of being united, and on an equality one
with another, so that no feeling of disunion should
arise on account of position or circumstance.
	At that period in the history of this people the
organization now known as the Relief Society,
had not been thought of, but the spirit of minist-
ering to those who were in need of either tem-
poral or spiritual help seems to have pervaded the
hearts of the Saints who were possessed of means
and they gave liberally of their substance. Re-
cently some of these things have been recalled to
mind, and the sayings of Bishop Newel K.
Whitney and his venerable wife, who were among
the first baptized into the Church in Kirtland
have come vividly to the writer. Do the
Latter day Saints in this day need to be reminded
that they are all of one great family, and that the
Lord is not a respector of persons, because of
wealth or station; but the humble and meek ones
though poor and in straitened circumstances are
as near to Him as the rich, and popular, and the
learned, who are wise in the things of the world.
Wealth brings with it greater responsibility, for
we understand men and women are only stewards
over these things in this world for the good of
humanity, therefore the wise steward remembers
to put his wealth to good usury, that he may
render a good account to the Great Master when
he shall appear before Him.
	This season of the year when the weather is
cold and work is scarce in many places, and
countries, there is great need of Charity that dis-
penses gifts to the poor and distressed, but here
the people are and have been greatly blest in this
respect and there are few who suffer for want of
the necessaries of life; but there are many cir-
cumstances that are sorrowful and distressing
even when well supplied with substantial comforts,
of these things all are aware and yet many are
neglectful in remembering to do little kindnesses,
and extending sympathy and love when it might
be a stay and solace to the lonely and sorrowing
ones, whose lot in life is not a path of roses, and
who have not been favored by ties and associa-
tions of kindred and friends upon whom they
can lean, for guidance and tenderness at all times.
Blessed indeed are those who are thus surrounded
even though the home is lowly for where love
abounds and binds together human hearts, there
is true happiness.
	Among the Saints gathered as they are from
many lands and of many families, there are many
lonely ones; we often hear the remark, "I am

[Column 2]

here alone," or "l am the only one of all my
father’s house who has received the Gospel,"
these sayings are common, and then there are
many aged and widows and orphans, and many
infirm and afflicted who need kindness, comfort
and sympathy. In a word they need love, the
love that the Gospel teaches, the love spoken of
in John, where the Savior said, "This is my com-
mandment that ye love one another." In the
world and surrounded with temporal cares one is
apt to lose sight of the little duties and get
swallowed up completely, as it were, in what is
seemingly of greater importance and yet it is not
really so, and it is good to be reminded of the
tender charities and ministrations of our Savior
that we may do the works He did, that we may
grow more like Him.
	The incident to which we alluded in the first
paragraph of this editorial, we will give here now
in the words of Sister Whitney, as she herself re-
lated it and after it was written, she approved it
and said to the writer, "that is as near as I can
remember." At this later time we wish most
sincerely that we had taken more, and no doubt
had she been minutely questioned, she could have
recalled other facts in this connection.
	That which we give here was published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT in No's. 9 and 11. Vol. 7.,
dated Oct. 1. and Nov. 1, 1878, under the title "A
Leaf From an Autibiography."
	"We had always been in the habit of entertain-
ing our friends and acquaintances generously
and hospitably, but after we received the Gospel,
we did not feel like using our means and time in
a way that would only benefit those who had an
abundance of this world's means. According to
our Savior's pattern and agreeably to the Prophet
Joseph's and our own ideas of true charity and
disinterested benevolence, we determined to make
a 'Feast for the Poor,' such as we knew could not
return the same to us; the lame, the halt, the
aged, and infirm."
	'This Feast lasted three days, during which
time all in the vicinity of Kirtland who would
come were invited, and entertained as courteously
and as generously as if they had been able to ex-
tend hospitality instead of receiving it. The
Prophet Joseph and his two Counselors being
present each day, talking, and blessing, and com-
forting the poor by words of encouragement and
their most welcome presence; some are now liv-
ing who were present at that Feast; and many
have passed behind the vail."
	"The Prophet Joseph often referred to this
particular Feast, during his life-time, and testified
of the great blessing he felt in associating with the
meek and humble ones whom the Lord has said
"He delights to own and bless." He often said
to me that it was preferable and far superior to
the elegant and select parties he afterwards at-
tended and afforded him much more genuine sat-
isfaction; and to me it was 'a feast of fat things,'
indeed, a time of rejoicing never to be forgot-
ten."
	These words of "Mother Whitney" as we love
to call her, are simple but expressive and the
spirit of them seems even now to testify of her.
She has told the writer many little things that
transpired in those early days that are not set
down in the books so to speak, and in fact are
not on record anywhere except it be as they are
engraven on memory's tablets in the mind of
those who participated therein, or have heard them
from the lips of the Prophet and those associated
with him. Those who were intimately associated
and acquainted with the Prophet, are fast pass-
ing away, and ere long there will be none, who
knew him personally.
	Another generation has come, and many of them
gone since the days of Kirtland, and those who
are aged now were children at the time when the
circumstance transpired which is recorded here.
The only ones we remember hearing speak of it

[Column 3]

were Bishop Whitney and wife, Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Brother and Sister Billings and these
have passed away; but no doubt there are others.
	According to the remembrance of the writer
this Feast was held soon after the Prophet
Joseph and Bishop Whitney's return from the
Eastern Cities and States, whither they went pre-
vious to the completion of the Kirtland Temple,
but the exact date or even the time of the year,
we have been unable to find.


FIFTY YEARS.

	To the officers and members of the Relief
Society in all its branches; the revolving wheels
of time remind us that on the 17th of March
1892, half a century will have passed since the
organization of women in this dispensation, after
the heavenly pattern. The first enrollment of the
Relief Society members was seventeen and seven
not present were received as members by recom-
mendation.
	Tens of thousands have since been enrolled
and branches are in healthy working conditions
(in various localities) in different nations, and on
the Islands of the sea.
	The good that has been accomplished through
the instrumentality of this Society is incalcul-
able.
	The General Presidency of the Relief Society
will in the near future issue a circular of instruc-
tion.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL, Secretary.


DECEMBER 23, 1891.

	This day is the anniversary of the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was faithful to the
last. The Saints know his earthly history, but I
have heard him say we did not know him.
Through the inspiration of God he organized the
Relief Society on the 17th day of March 1842, in
Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill., of which I had the
honor of being a member, and a few yet remain to
testify to his words. We also have some written
at the time by our dear Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith which are much appreciated.
	The 17th day of next March it will be fifty
years since, and how shall we best commemorate
the day? The Prophet said, "we did not conceive
the greatness of the work we were laying the
foundation of." The Gospel has blest us in so
many ways, and an unselfish love is a lesson we
are learning but are not yet perfected in; we wish
all to mutually participate in the Jubilee of the
fiftieth year of the Relief Society. We can esti-
mate means donated, but who can sum up the
deeds of kindness and words of love that comfort
the sorrowing and afflicted, that the faithful sisters
have bestowed. Every faithful saint should aspire
to the honor and privilege of doing good, and as
the word Mormon signifies more good, let us con-
tinue to do more. Some blessings are obtained only
by fasting and prayer, in this way our spirits may
be strengthened and health given to continue our
labors, and as great responsibility rest upon the
mothers there is need of union between the
parents; bow the knee to God as a token of
reverence, thank Him for all the blessings of life,
set this example in your household, that the
children may follow it, and thus claim the bless-
ing of happy homes.
	The Relief Society is to help us to
improve in every virtue, love, kindness, humility
and obedience; we go forth to look after the
needy, to strengthen the faith and cheer the
spirits of the sisters, but let me exhort you never
to neglect the children, our precious gifts. May
we be blest with more wisdom in all things. We
can unitedly pray on the 17th of March and re-
turn thanks to God for raising up a Prophet in
our day, to instruct us how to direct our lives


that we may again behold the face of our Father
in heaven, and may we be filled with charity con-
tinually, as these are days of blessings and trials.
	We desire to extend greetings to all the sisters'
gatherings of every branch of the society through-
out the world,that the spirit of God with love and
union, and forgiving all, may permeate every sonl,
and be assured sisters we have nothing to fear
knowing that God rules. May we be true and
faithful, and our fasting and prayer and rejoicing
be acceptable to God, that Zion may prosper.
The humility of the soul is true wealth.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	Minutes of the meeting of the U. W. P. Club
held at the parlors of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Wednesday Dec. 30th, 1891, at 8, p. m. Called to
order by the President, E. B. Wells. Minutes
read by the Secretary and accepted. An original
poem from the able pen of Julia A. Mac-
Donald entitled "One Phase of the Divine Mis-
sion of Woman" was then read.
	Miss N. V. Davis of the 14th Dist. school told
a very pleasing Christmas story in a happy man-
her. Gladys Woodmansee rendered some fine
musical selections on the piano and and Miss
Davis sang the German Christmas Hymn and
another German song in a very sweet voice.
Treasurer R. M. Fox sent a letter of regret for
non attendance and an original article relating to
the rights of wives and husbands. Dr. E. R.
Shipp read an original poem entitled "For Those
We Love." The President then read a very in-
teresting article on "Club Culture" and remarked
that we wished to obtain all good ideas for club
work as we wanted to do creditable work this
coming year, in order that we may be able to join
the Federation and meet with them at the World's
Fair which will surely prove benefical in the
interchange of ideas and the awakening of new
thoughts.
	The object of this club is purely literary and
all foreign topics will be excluded.
	Gladys Woodmansee read a poem from
Whittier entitled "The Watcher."
	Delicious refreshments were then served by the
President. After which benediction was pro-
nounced by Miss Woodmansee, and meeting ad-
journed until Jan. 30th, 1892.
			ELLIS R SHIPP, M. D., Rec. Sec.


SINGING MOTHERS.

	As night began to spread her shadowy wings
over the great throbbing world about us, from the
open doors and windows of the houses near came
the sweet sound of voices in song. They were
mothers' voices, and no one who heard the wealth
of love throbbing in every line and word could
doubt that some one was being rocked to sleep,
that some little restless head was pillowed upon
a loving arm, that some one's eyes were droop-
ing nearer and nearer the rosy cheek. Yes, in
every house in my immediate neighborhood the
noise and prattle of little children are heard all
day long, and the sweet bedtime song at night.
	Hark ! "Bye O Baby, Bye O Darling." Ah,
 es, that same old song sung to us, I ween, and
to our parents before us. Then in the little white
house just across the way the words, "Jesus Keep
Me Near the Cross," came so soft and low I bent
my ear to catch the words. I fell into a reverie.
How strong and loving and hopeful the voice
sounded, and yet I knew some heart must have
its burden. But burdens must not be laid upon
the little hearts, to sap the sunshine and happi-
ness there. So whatever trouble the mother
knows, the trusting eyes only see a patient, lov-
ing face bending over them. It is ever so. The
papers say, "Meet your husband with a smile;',


and our own hearts say "Meet your children with
a smile;" so we must go on smiling and smiling,
letting the agony at our hearts down, down,
smothered perhaps by and by, by the very smiles
that were so hard to give.
	Ah, what does the world owe to the mothers,
the patient, loving, song-singing mothers? Who
can tell? How many lives have been turned,
changed completely-by the encouraging smile of
the mother, or the song, coming full of love and
gladness to win her child back to the path of
righteousness.
	A lady once lived beside a new house that was
just going up. The workmen were very profane
and as she had a little daughter she feared the
example, as the great oaths followed each other
in quick succession. There were so many of the
men that she could hardly summon courag[-]
enough to ask them to desist, so she thought o
another way. She sang—sweet religious songs
in her clear, strong voice—sang with new en-
couragement as the profane voices were all
hushed, as if listening. As long as she sang
there were no voices, and when the swearing be-
gan and she broke into the sweet old strains of
"Jesus, Lover of My Soul" the voices were all
silenced.
	In the roughest heart some soft spot still re-
mains, and if an old sin-hardened heart can thus
be made different, think of the influence on our
babies. So,dear mothers,let us continue to sing;
sing gladly if you can, even though we do not
feel altogether so ourselves. But let us sing any-
way.
		BERTHA PACKARD ENGLET.
Belmond, Ia.


[Column 1]

FIFTY-SECOND CONGRESS. U. S.

	The Congress of the United States assembled
at the Capitol building in Washington D. C.,
on the first Monday in December 1891—in
the Fifty-second Congress which opened at
12 m. The first business before the assembly
was receiving the resignation of Senators Geo.
F. Edmunds of Vermont and John H. Reagan
of Texas, two very influential members of the
Senate. Credentials were received of Charles
N. Felton to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Senator George Hearst and of
Charles H. Gibson caused by the death of
Ephraim N. Wilson of Maryland, also of
other new Senators.
	The House was called to order by the Clerk
of the preceding Congress, roll called and
house adjourned.
	On the following day Dec. 8, after reports
of various officers the Vice President laid be-
fore the Senate a number of petitions and
memorials, Colorado asks that all public lands
except mineral lands be given to the State.
Montana prays for removal of mineral re-
strictions upon school lands, and both Colorado
and Montana memorialize in favor of Pad-
dock's pure-food bill. The Ladies Missionary
Society of the First United Presbyterian
Church of Kansas City Mo., petition that the
World's Fair may not be opened on Sunday.
New Senators were sworn in and both Call of
Florida and Dubois of Idaho took their seats
though papers had been filed contesting their
places and referred to the Committee on Privi-
leges and Elections. Then names were pre-
sented for Speaker of' the House by their re-
spective parties Charles F. Crisp of Georgia,
Democrat, receiving the highest vote; this
vote shows the Democratic majority in the
House. Quite a number of deaths have oc-
curred according to the vacancies that had to
be filled in the House. W. B. Cochran suc-
ceeds General Spinola of New York, Charles
E. Belknap, Ford of Michigan, John C. Hank,
L. C. Hank of Tenn., John J. Jolley, Gamble
of South Dakota. James Kerr of Penn., was

[Column 2]
 
elected Clerk; In the drawing of seats Ex-
Speaker Reid of Maine, Holman of Indiana
and O'Neill of Penn., were allowed to make
the first selection of places, these gentlemen
having occupied seats there for over fourteen
years.
	Dec. 9, the only business was listening to
the reading of the President's message, when
the House adjourned until Saturday.
	Dec. 10. Six hundred and twelve bills
were introduced in the Senate, No. 1. being
Paddock's bill to prevent the adulteration and
the misbranding of food. General Mandersen
introduced a bill to establish postal savings
banks and to encourage small savings. Mr.
Sherman to establish a public health depart-
ment. Mr. Voorhees to erect a statue in the
Smithsonian grounds to Robert Dale Owen.
Mr. Peffer to amend the naturalization and
immigration laws. Mr. Plumb to grant a pen-
sion to members of the State militia of Kansas
who are incapacitated for manual labor. A
large number of religious bodies presented
petitions asking that the Worlds Fair be
closed on Sunday. A number of petitions ask
for the prohibition of the slave and rum traffic
on the Congo.
	Dec. 14, Bills of importance introduced into
the Senate; Sen. Squires to erect a monument
to Gen. U. S. Grant at Washington; Sen.
Hale to establish a permanent census office;
Sen. Mitchell to prohibit absolutely Chinese
from coming into the United States whether
Chinese subjects or not; Sen. Frye to provide
for a commission on the alcoholic liquor traffic;
Sen. Manderson to provide for the survey of
Alaska.
	Dec. 15, Bills introduced, Sen. Morrill to
endow Howard University, to erect a bronze
statue of Prof. Baird, of the Smithsonian; to
erect a bronze statue of Columbus in Wash-
ington; Sen. Cullom to amend the interstate
commerce act; Sen. Pettegrew to furnish
rations for the G. A. R. at its next annual
convention in Washington. Sen. Mitchell for
the development of silk culture.
	During the week before Christmas the
House was in session only a part of the time
and was occupying itself mostly with the dis-
position of committees.
	Many petitions for closing the World's Fair
on Sunday were received, two of them from
Congregational Churches, New Gloucester, Me.
and Rock Falls, Ill., ask that Congress loan
$5,000 000, to the Fair,conditional upon Sun-
day closing. It is decided the Committee on
World's Fair be known as Committee on
Columbian Exposition.
	Senator Mitchell presented a numerously
signed petition praying Congress to take action
to invite a conference of the governments of the
world to meet during the Columbian Exposi-
tion, to devise, discuss and recommend
measures by which arbitration may be incor-
porated in treaties, international laws har-
monized, an international court established
that shall have jurisdiction in cases which gov-
ernments fail to settle by negogiation.
	Sen. Daniel for the completion of the monu-
ment to Mary the mother of Washington.
	The shaft which is at Fredericksburg dates
back to 1833, owes its origin to Gen. Jackson.
The pedestal is a wreck and the shaft is bullet-
ridden and has suffered still worse from relic
hunters. It is the opinion of notable women,
who should certainly have their opinions
recognized, "that the statue be erected in
Washington, where it may be felt as the prop-
erty of the whole nation, and appreciated by
multitudes.
	Other bills are; to extend privilege of free
postage to historical societies; to purchase S.
W. Price's portrait of Gen. Geo. H. Thomas,
and Wm. Mathew's portrait of Abraham
Lincoln; to provide for the safety of switch-
men, brakemen and engineers. Sen. Cullom


who presented this bill said they had not de-
cided what kind of legislation was necessary,
but this bill was to ascertain if possible life-
saving devices for coupling etc. Sen. Hoar
explained that Mass., had organized the first
railroad commission in this country and this
matter had been considered but they were met
by the fact that the jurisdiction over railroads
engaged in interstate commerce is national
and not a State jurisdiction. Pension bills to
provide for pensioning militia and telegraph
operators engaged with the Union forces in the
civil war.
	Dec. 17, Sen. Stewart made a speech on the
silver question answering the President's objec-
tions to the free coinage. Sen. Dawes pre-
sented a petition of citizens of Mass., signed
by Harriette N. Shattuck President of the N.
A.W. S. A. of that state and many others
praying for the adoption of a sixteenth amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United States
providing for woman Suffrage which was re-
ferred to the Select Committee on Woman
Suffrage.
	The sudden death of Sen. Plumb of Kansas
on Sunday cast a gloom over the Senate ses-
sion on Monday the 21st and when the fact
was announced the Senate took a recess to
allow preparations for the obsequies which
were held at 1:30 p. m. The President and
Cabinet, Diplomatic Corps, members of the
Supreme Court and House of Representatives
were present. The Chaplain read the burial
service of the Lutheran Church and the hymns
"O, Be Ready" and "Nearer Home." The Senate
went in a body to the station and Senators
Peffer Paddock, Dolph, Ransom and Palmer,
with a delegation from the House accompanied
the remains of the dead Senator upon his home-
ward journey.
	Stephen B. Elkins has been confirmed Sec-
retary of war in place of Hon. Redfield
Proctor resigned.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY.

	Faith Hope and Charity, these three are
one, but the greatest of these is Charity.
	Thus saith the Apostle Paul. The same
Apostle also says "without Faith it is
impossible to please God This saying is
quite consistent, quite reasonable, for without
faith in the promises of God we question His
veracity. To doubt His word and promises
we impute to His character both deceit and
falshood. Is it reasonable that the Creator
aud Ruler of the universe would be pleased
with such unjust imputations? Holy Writ in-
forms us that God is truth that it is impossible
for Him to lie. Why not then—if a believer
in the scriptures—place implicit confidence in
His word and promises contained therein?
also if a believer in the Gospel and work of
the last dispensation, why not give credence
to the promises given through God's servants,
the prophets and patriarchs, ordained and
holding the holy priesthood? surely their
word should be as the word of God unto us;
surely the Lord will not hold us guiltless if we
treat lightly His promises.
	St. Paul said "Abraham believed God and
it was accounted unto him for righteousness,
he staggered not at the promises of God
through unbelief"
	Jesus said, "if ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed you should say to this mountain
be ye plucked up and cast into the depths of
the sea and it would be done."
	No doubt many—like the Apostles of old—
would exclaim this is a hard saying who can
believe it. But who dare accuse the Redeemer,
the Lord of light and glory, with uttering a
falsehood. All things are possible with God.
The framer and controller of the universe is in
possession of laws,natural laws, which of course

[Column 2]

mortal man has no knowledge of whereby all
things are obedient to His will.
	What is all the wisdom of finite mortals
compared with the Infinite? scarcely a drop in
the vast ocean. What folly then, who
presumes to question the omnipotent power of
the Deity? rather seek for knowledge and
faith coupled with wisdom to comprehend more
of the power and laws of Him whose wonderful
works and power are manifest in all we behold
and which—although incomprehensible to our
narrow,contracted minds is sufficient to silence
the most obstinate sceptic and cause every
rational being to exclaim nothing is impossible
with such immense illimitable power. Why then
doubt any blessing of Divine favor promised
to weak erring mortals? however improbable
or impossible it may appear to our benighted
minds. Especially we who have espoused the
name of Saint, who profess to believe in direct
communication with heaven; such should seek
earnestly for the faith once delivered to the
Saints. Paul said, "faith was the gift of God,
he also said, "He is the same yesterday, to-
day and forever. Therefore it is our privilege
to seek and obtain the faith the ancient Saints
enjoyed the faith of a Daniel and the three
Hebrews, who were cast in the fiery furnace
and many more too numerous to mention. As
the same Priesthood is restored to man with the
same power, the same gifts, and promises it
is our privilege to avail ourselves of the same
blessings.
	The arm of the Lord is not shortened neither
is He slack concerning His promises. The
Apostle said, "covet the best gifts."  Now
if faith is not the best gift it certainly seems
the most essential for us in these days of
tribulation, judgments, and persecution.
These, are the days of the Lord's controversy
with the world, and the adversary is sowing
the seeds of disease and death broadcast
throughout the entire Universe. Diseases new
and terrible, baffling the skill of human
wisdom laying low the infant and the aged; no
earthly power is adequate to grapple with
the various and dire diseases which are
bursting forth from time to time,and wrest its
victims from the power of the grim destroyer.
	Therefore we can realize the necessity of
that which is attainable through faith in the
promises of the Gospel.
	They are a glorious heavenly boon proffered
on conditions of obedience to the requirements
of the fulness of the Gospel, without money
and without price, whereby we may be able
through the gift of faith to wrest from an
untimely grave our loved ones and prolong
our own existence also. It is not only the
privilege of the Saints but a duty, we owe to
our children, for are they not the Lord's
heritage? how very precious then should they
be in our care. Pure, innocent spirits right
from the bosom of the heavenly parent, com-
mitted to our charge to preserve their
lives and rear them to love, honor and
reverence His holy name and walk in the
paths of truth and righteousness. Thus might
we have the unspeakable satisfaction of return-
ing them to their Heavenly Father unsullied
and without blemish, saying here Father are
the heavenly gems intrusted to my charge; and
receive with what ineffable joy the divine
plaudit, "well done good and faithful servant
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
	Hope is also a great blessing which we
should ardently seek for, it should be cultivated
and cherished by every individual, without it
we could not endure the various and almost
unmentionable ills,that beset us at nearly every
turn throughout life's thorny pathway. Hope
is the boon of every son and daughter of afflic-
tion and can be cultivated to a great extent in
order to sustain us under the many trying
vicisistudes we are called to pass through. It

[Column 3]

is an old adage but a true one, "if it was not
for hope the heart would break. 
	Pual speaking of hope says, "faith is the
substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen."
	He further says, "by faith we stand and re-
joice in the hope of the glory of God." He
also says, "tribulation worketh patience, and
patience experience, and experience hope, and
hope maketh not ashamed." Yet there is
quite a difference between faith and hope.
	Hope according to Webster is a desire with
expectation.
	Faith in God and His promises is a desire
with an as urance of obtaining. Yet faith
without works is dead," so sayeth the Apostle
Paul. St. James also says, "Abraham was
justified by works, when he offered his son
Isaac upon the altar; thus by works was faith
made perfect." Paul says "though he had all
faith so he could remove mountains and had
not charity he was nothing." "Charity never
faileth, suffereth long and is kind, is not puffed
up,seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked,
thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not iniquity, but re-
joiceth in the truth."
	Much more might be said in regard to
charity, but it is evident it does not exist only
in giving to the poor, for Paul said, "though
he bestowed all his goods to feed the poor; and
had not charity he was nothing. There is
one kind of charity which is very essential
for us all to cultivate. It is charity in over-
looking the faults and weaknesses of one
another. It is too much the habit to judge
others, as the saying is, by our own standard.
	Such judgment is not just. We cannot
understand all the surroundings of our fellow-
beings, we know not the circumstances and
temptations with which they may have been
environed. Instead of judging let us rather
thank God that He has preserved us and ours
from such faults and follies, and reach out to
our brother, or sister the helping hand and
assist and encourage them to reform. In so
doing we will show our faith by our works.
Otherwise if we denounce those who err, and
stand aloof from them, saying in our hearts
I am better than thou, the Lord may bring us
into circumstances that will show us our own
weaknesses.
	Thus it is quite important to cultivate a
spirit of humility and charity to all poor fallen
humanity.
	Therefore beloved sisters, contend earnestly
for the faith, gifts, and graces of the Gospel,
which were once delivered to the Saints. They
will prove a bulwark in every time of need.
in the hour of affliction when the sombre
clouds of despondency close around you and
the evil genius of despair stands ready to
clutch your heartstrings, then will they, like
so many sentinels at their post be ready to
come to your relief, with the balm and gentle
influence of the spirit of the Gospel, and in a
still, small voice rebuke the demon of despair
and command him to depart.
	Like the rays of the morning sun after a
dark and tempestuous night, will the effulgent
rays of peace and the spirit of God illuminate
your soul and dispel the clouds of despond-
ency. They will also prove an anchor to the
soul 'mid every stormy blast when tossed to
and fro on the turbulent ocean of life. Like 
a beacon of light in the darkness they will
guide and pilot you into port, like a lamp to
the feet illuminate the straight and narrow
path, that leads to the beautiful haven or
eternal peace and rest.
			ELIZA D. GIBBS.


Kind words are benedictions. They are
not only instruments of power, but of benevo-
lence and courtesy blessings both to the
speaker and hearer of them.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


A SKETCH FROM LIFE. 

	Old memories and thoughts of other days
are crowding on my mind tonight; thoughts of
childhood’s companions, and old scenes and
friends who have long since passed away their
looks and words return with vivid force. Why
is it scenes so long passed from the stage of
time have power to return with such force to
the mind that we can almost imagine we are
looking in a mirror where pictures come and
go, or looking upon a scroll on which is
recording the events of the past.
	One of these pictures is that of an old house
situated in one of the most pleasant parts of
old England, a house large and roomy with its
front windows facing the bay where the stately
ships lay in the harbor. Not the steam ships
of to-day, but the great ‘‘Ships of the line,”
each one with a history in itself, there lay the
Britannia, and the Thunderer, and the great
Victoria on which Lord Nelson won his last
battle and received his death wound in the
moment of Victory, things as familiar to the
children that lived in that house, as are the
street cars and the mountains that surround
our children’s nomes today. The house stood
in the midst of a garden filled with fruit and
flowers with evergreens on every side; then
there were the meadows at the back where the
children gathered the primrose, the snowdrops
and the violets in the early days of Spring,
that later in the season were covered with the
daisy and the blue bell and great yellow butter-
cups, with which the happy children weave
garlands, tell one another’s fortunes, and try
whose face will best reflect the golden beauty
of the flowers: haypy days of childhood passed
away all too soon but leaving a trace upon the
heart that bears an influence on all the alter
life. Yes happy children gather your flowers
while you may for soon, the stern realities of
life will be upon you, and in place of the
flowers you gather now your tender fingers
will soon be torn by the thorns and briers of
life’s-wilderness, and your young hearts be
saddened with the knowledge of the evil and
sorrow that exists in the world, that to you is
now a sealed book.
	I recall a day in the month of April when
the voices of the children are not heard shout-
ing to each other in the garden,for though the
cookoo has returned to the old oak tree and is
loudly proclaiming that Spring has come, its
voice is disregarded; they are not searching the
meadows to see which can first discover where
the sky lark is building her nest, or watching
the flight of her mate as he ascends far out of
sight trilling his song of praise to the great
Creator. On the day of which I speak they
are doing none of these things they are within
the house and their voices are hushed in awe
and grief, for the Angel of Death is hovering
on their threshold and is about to claim for
his own, him who is the head, and support of
that house the loving husband, the tender
father is about to pass away.
	It was the month of February preceding
the time of which I write when he returned
to his home with dripping clothing having
been exposed to a violent storm while in the
execution of his duty, he being Captain of the
Earl of Chatham, and it was his duty to meet
the returning ships before they entered the
bay to receive their stores and see that they
were properly deposited in the Magazines; a
responsible position which he filled with
honor.
	Though usually in the enjoyment of robust
health, before retiring for the night he com-
plained of feeling ill, but thought that rest and
warmth would restore him; he said I shall not
leave the house tomorrow but will stay at
home and rest. While undressing a strange
thing happened to him; he sat upon the side
of the bed and seemed to lose consciousness for

[Column 2]
a few minutes, then said to his wife, I could
see inside of myself, and there is a black spot
at the pit of my stomach, I do not know but
the Lord is about to take me away from you
all. He lay down upon the bed from which
he never rose, for although the best medical
skill was called in, and the loving wife and
family had spent weary days and watchful
nights all had been in vain. The strong man
has become as weak as a child and all know
that the end is near. The elder children
have been summoned from their distant homes
and though two are still absent, yet there are
twelve around that bed of death the husband
and father there awaiting the last great change
fears not death, for though he has not had
the privilege of hearing of the restoration of
the Everlasting Gospel, he has striven his best
according to the light He had, to do his duty
to God and man he has ever given good
counsel to his family and been charitable to
mankind; in the days of his strength and pros-
perity he has endeavored to serve his God and
in the hour of His extremity he has not been
forgotten by Him. And now the Angel of the
covenant stands ready to convey him through the 
dark vale of death.
	His eye is growing dim and his voice faint,
he looks around the room and misses the
younger children, who have been banished
from the apartment a short time before, and
makes the request that they be brought in,that
he may look upon their faces once more and
take a last farewell. They come with fear and
trembling and some of them give vent to their
grief in tears and sobs. He looks at them with
eyes filled with love, he speaks their names
and says a word or two to each, and one a child
of ten whose naturally rosy cheeks have grown
pale with watching by that sick bed which no
calls of companions, or thoughts of play could
induce her to leave that sick room, and has
scarcely ever left it except when compelled by
her mother, and often after being sent to her
bed she has waited till her sisters slept and
then crept back and begged to remain, which
she was often permitted to do, notwithstanding
the remonstrauces of friends who rightly con-
sidered that her health would suffer. She it
was who never wearied of reading to him, and
could most readily turn to his favorite passages
of scripture, those words of comfort that he
loved so well, she approaches the bed suppress-
ing every sigh of emotion, for though so young
the child has thoughts and feelings far beyond
her years, and understands but too well the
loss she is about sustain the dying father
makes an effort to raise the hand that lays
upon the coverlet and turning those eyes of
love that she would never again behold in life,
pronounced in a distinct voice the words, “my
poor little daughter the Lord bless you,”
words that thrilled through every nerve and
fibre of the child; words never to be forgotten
by her. The scene is drawing to a close and
when one of the youngest of the children is
borne from the room in the arms of a friend
turns and with quivering lips says the simple
words “goodbye father,” the fountain of tears
are unlocked and none present can restrain
their weeping.
	How plainly 1 recall the scene. I seem to
hear the dash of the waves upon
the beach, the sighing of the wind in the
trees; to see the sunlight shining through the
open windows, the dying man upon the bed,
the fainting wife, the sobbing children.
	Many years have passed since then and
the children who then mingled their tears
together have been separated from each other
and some have gone to solve the problem of
their existence behind the vail; but the one
that received the sweet “God bless you,” from
the lips of her dying father, still remains,
though separated from all her kindred.
	Many and vivid have been the sorrows and

[Column 3]
trials of her life, but the blessing she received
has been as a beacon light in her path, and an 
anchor to hold her amidst the storms of life.
(She still waits.)
PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S OPINION.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I enjoy reading in the various publications
the beautiful sentiments and arguments of our
noble representative women of the nation for
the emancipation of our sex, from gross and de-
grading oppression by the stronger sex who
have so long retained the ascendancy and
arrogated to themselves the right of making
laws inimical to justice and humanity
which these most excellent and benevolent wo-
men are devoting their energies to rescue from
such thraldom so that woman may be placed
on a proper footing and have influence to
check the progress of inebriety and crime.
Instead, as in the past, women who have hus-
bands have had to toil and labor in poverty to
sustain their families while their husbands are
indulging in intemperance.
	On the other hand hosts of women, un-
married, are exposed to temptation and in-
duced to live lives of dishonor and consequent
misery. 

	Is it not true that the larger proportion of
women worthy to be wives of good men and
true have not the opportunity of becoming
wives and honorable mothers

	I would that all good women might receive
the benefit of the sublime teachings of the
martyred Prophet Joseph in regard to woman
whose friend he was and whose sayings I often
recognize emanating from the pen of writers
who have unwittingly adopted some of his
views. 

	My husband was considered worthy to per- 
form a historic mission to Palestine. In 1840
he was sent by the Prophet Joseph, and went
without purse or scrip, to dedicate that land
preparatory to the return of the Jews in ful-
fillment of prophecy and accomplished the
mission to the divine acceptance.
	Most of the Jews will gather in unbelief, and
by the force of circumstances, are compelled
to fulfill the prediction to return to Jerusalem
(laid waste) to the inheritance of their fore-
fathers.
	M. A. P. H.


R.S.,Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
		REPORTS.

	EDEN WARD.
	Minutes of the Relief Society organization
of Liberty, Weber Co., held in the Liberty
school house Aug. 14, 1891. Pres: Jane S.
Richards presiding on the stand were Sister
Harriet Brown first counselor to Sister
Richards, also Josephine R. West Pres. of the
P. A. of Weber Co., and her counselor Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, Sister Mamie M. Richards
Pres, of the Second Ward Primary, Ogden,
Brother Richards, Bishop Ferren and Martha
Ferren were also there.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come, come ye
saints.” Prayer by Joshua Judkins, singing
“Hail to the brightness." Sister Richards
said “my dear sisters I am glad we have come
up here to the end of Ogden Valley to or-
ganize a Relief Society, I feel glad that you
have such a nice looking place up here, your
crops are looking nice you must feel thankful
that you have no saloons up here When we
go to meeting in Ogden or Salt Lake we don’t


know half of the people. I do hope the sisters
feel united here in this place; do all you can
and the Lord will bless you, I have been go-
ing to a Relief Society in Ogden in which all
sects are joined, their meetings are a matter of
business, to see after the poor.
	I told them if they saw any of our
poor to let us know, we did not wish them to
take care of our poor for we had plenty to take
care of them; you must try and have your
meetings as often as you can, I think you
should have your meetings every two weeks,
and if you have them regular the Lord will
bless you;” made other good remarks and gave
good advice to all.
	Sister Brown said, this is a great deal
larger place than I thought it was, I am glad
to hear that you are going to organize a society
here, made a few good remarks, asking the
Lord to bless us all.
	Brother Richards, “I feel delighted in meet-
ing with you this morning, I can tell by your
looks that you are feeling well your duty is to
attend your meetings, so as you can speak to
one another, and before you go to meeting
ask the Lord to help you, and when you go
home you can work with less trouble, and be-
determined to come to your meetings and the
Lord will bless you; I have seen the time
when the sisters used to have such good
meetings that the brethren were jealous of
them. Brethren hitch up your teams go with
them to meeting and help them along as much
as you can, let me tell you brethren they be-
long to the Church as much as you do, and
have a right to administer to the sick. I
must not take any more of the time so I will
give way asking the Lord to bless you, Amen.”
	Bishop Joseph Ferren, I was at a Relief
Society a few months ago in Eden there were
some sisters from here, they said they would
like to have a Relief Society in Liberty so that
they could attend meeting oftener, so we in-
vited Sister Richards to come and organize a
Society, and after the organization if there is
any feelings go and make things right.
	Sister Richards said it had been moved and
seconded that Sister Mary A. Judkins be Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Liberty, a full
vote was given; moved and seconded that
Sisters Mary A. Chard and Mary Campbell be
her Counselors, full vote; moved and seconded that
Sister Mary A. Ferren be Secretary, full
vote; moved and seconded that Sister Christina
Marshall be Treasurer, full vote.
	Sister Martha Ferren of Eden, said “I am
glad to be with the sisters today, we shall try
to meet with you in some of your meetings as
often as we can.”
	Sister Mary A. Judkins,“I was surprised for
the sisters to call on me to act as president,
but with the help of the Lord I will try and
do the very best I can, and we will try and
have our meeting next Thursday at 2 o’clock.
Singing “How will the saints rejoice to tell.”
Benediction by James Ferren.
	P. S. We are holding our meetings every
Thursday at 3 o’clock.
	MARY A. JUDKINS, Pres.
	MARY FERREN, Sec.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNOUNCEMENTS.

NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
CONVENTION.
	The twenty-fourth annual Washington Con-
vention will be held in The Church of Our
Father, corner L and Thirteenth St., January
17 to 21st inclusive.
	The address of the Treasurer, Jane H.
Spofford is 1412 G. St. N. W.
NOTICE TO THE MEMBERS OF N. A. W. S. A.
	The amendment proposed by me two years
ago to have the State vice-presidents elected by


the National American instead of as now hold-
ing that position by being president of an
auxiliary State society, will come before the
next convention for consideration. I shall
change my amendment so as to ask that the
auxiliary society elect the person who it may
choose to have represent it as the N. A. vice-
president. The point being to make the office
elective instead of ex-officio.
	CLARA BEWICK COLBY.


FINE ART OF TEA MAKING.

	Tea making in Japan is a fine art. The
teapot is small and dainty, like those sold for
bric-a-brac at Japanese shops, and the teacups,
often of fine cloissonnes with plain enameled
linings, are each no larger than a giant’s
thimble. With them is a pear-shaped pitcher
for boiling water, and a lacquer containing
choice tea. Among the the rich these appur-
tenances accompany a brand of tea so rare
that none of it is ever exported. The Japanese
host scoops out enough of the precious herb
(with an ivory implement shaped like a large
tea leaf) to loosely fill the little teapot. He
then pours over it hot, not boiling, water, and
in less than a moment the tea maker begins to
pour off a steam of pale yellow tea into cups
which are never filled more than half way up,
and they are at once served to visitors and
the family. It is needless to say that the tea
losing no part of its delicious aroma, is as
fragrant and delicate as any concoction can
possibly be.—Boston Transcript.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Rev. Amanda Deyo has been elected presi-
dent of the Lackawanna County (Pa.) Wo-
man Suffrage Association.
	The last number of the Australian Woman’s
Suffrage Journal reprints three of Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blak'e’s “Suffrage Fables.”
	Montana’s World’s Fair Commission has
set aside $5,000 of the State’s appropriation of
$50,000 for the use of the women.
	At the last meeting of the Beneficent Society
of the New England Conservatory, Mrs. Rufus
S. Frost, one of the two members of the Board
of Lady Managers from Mass., spoke in behalf
of the work ot the Board.
	Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake is to start early
in January on a tour of Southern meetings,
beginning in Maryland. Mrs. Blake was for
many years president of the New York State
Woman Suffrage Association. She is a well-
known woman, an able writer, and a ready
and experienced speaker, full mistress of her
subject, which she illustrates with a large fund
of interesting and touching stories, all of them
true.
	It is a curious fact that the total number of
men who voted last Tuesday for the Republi-
can candidate for Mayor of Boston (19,534)
was not equal in number to the women who
voted for school committee in Boston four
years ago (19,570) Had those women school
committee voters been enabled by their
victorious Republican allies in the Legislature
to vote for all city and town officers, the re-
sults of last year’s election and of this one
might have been very different.—Ex.


[column 1]
	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.-- 324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.-- 8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

[column 2]
	THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

[Rio Grande Western Railway Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A. M. E. VAN,
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES Box 806. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.   

