Vol. 20.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1891.	No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	In Rural England. Relief Society in Mexico 
—Ida I Allred. Pleasant Primary Work—Lillie
Freeze. Visit in St. George Stake—Ann C.
Woodbury. W. S. A. Salt Lake Co. Weber Co.
W. S. A. Training a Nurse—Mary Cadwalader
Jones. Personals—Marian Taylor. Notes and 
News.
	EDITORIAL:—This and That. Editorial Note.
Aunt Presendia’s Birthday. A Whitney Gather-
ing. A Relief Society Reorganized. A Trip to
Canada—Zina D. H. Young. First Annual Con-
vention of the P. C. Women’s Press Association.
Letter from Arizona—W. East. Franchise Notes
From Wyoming—Therese A. Jenkins.
	POETRY:—To Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron
—L. M. Hewlings. Twilight Reveries—E. B. W.
Let the Dead Bury the Dead—Selected. Dear
Son Seymour—Phebe C. Young.


TO MRS. AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
[On reading her beautiful Poem, “An Ideal Home.”]

I was reading your beautiful poem,
Of a charming ideal earth home,
When my thoughts took the wings of fancy,
Away over mountains to roam,
Over white-capped peaks of winter’s crowning,
Where fierce winds their strength spend in vain.
A down rugged steeps wild torrents stemming,
In search of your fairy domain.
Over cities and valleys of beauty,
I threaded the pathways along,
Viewed pictures from fancy’s revealing,
Of your home, protrayed in sweet song.
Securely sheltered from rough winds sweeping,
From a world’s busy care and strife,
Where smiling peace her vigils are keeping,
To sweeten the waters of life.
Where light of morning ever finds welcome,
Where evening brings quiet and calm,
Hallow’d all labor—grateful thoughts blending,
To Him who is giver of all.
Where the robin and song-bird of springtime,
Come early to gladden and cheer,
Each shrub and tree, with life-draughts full laden,
As stream from rock-riven flows clear.
Sweet bud and blossom pathways surrounding,
Scattering perfume from near and from far,
Home of beauty, with music abounding,
Worship is joy, with love’s guiding star.
Here in this home; this charming ideal,
Fain would I abide in its rest,
Destined by fate to turn to the real,
I’m merely in fancy a guest.
L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kans.


TWILIGHT REVERIES.

The shadows rest upon the mountains high,
And blue and purple haze enwraps them now,
And clouds, fantastical, pil’d ’gainst the sky,
Wreath quaintest garlands round the mountain's
brow.

How gently blend shadows and clouds so gray,
Changing to dullness things but late so bright,
Yet from the beauteous west the closing day
Casts glim’ring glances of its fading light.

Oft have I watch’d the phantoms twilight made,
Dissolving day and night in one another,
And in similitude my fancies play’d
With light and shade, entwining them together.

The soft breeze gently whispers in the leaves,
The tones so musical, and sweet, and low,
The echoes thrilling me—’till mem’ry weaves
The reveries of the hour with “long ago.”


The visions of the past fill all my soul,
And through the vista of the years grown grim
I trace the outlines, as upon a scroll,
Of forms and scenes familiar though so dim.

I see the forests near my childhood’s home
And hear again the voices in the breeze,
And troop on troop the floods of mem’ries come,
And I seem wand’ring ’mid those ancient trees,

And all that then was mine, of youthful hope,
And sweet affection, with her myriad powers,
All these, I gather in the shadow’d scope
Of fancy as I muse in twilight hours.

Sweet tones of love fall lightly on my ear,
Again I feel the clasp of hands now cold,
And shudd’ring pause, ’twixt happiness and fear,
As the vast panorama is unrolled.

’Tis pleasant thus to view the path we’ve trod,
And mark where here and there our feet have stray’d,
Where sometimes fell a heavy chast’ning rod
And soft the whisper, be not thou afraid!

Sooth’d all the wound—and cheered us ever on,
And list’ning close the still small voice we hear,
Now plainer grown than when life first begun,
Helping and guiding as the goal we near.

If on our way some shadows in the years,
Darken’d our path, and hid the light from view,
Now looking back through mists of bitter tears,
We know WHOSE HAND guided us safely through.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.
   All through the lonely watches of that night,
the devoted cousin sat and carefully nursed
Miss Hilliard according to the good old Dr’s.
instructions, and kept the maid within call;
not wishing her to see and hear what might
pass between them in case the young lady
would rouse from the stupor into which she
seemed to have fallen, and should make a con-
fident of her; which she longed and prayed for
in order that she  might know better how to
protect, and help her, and free her from any 
embarrassment on account of her father, or the
young man, who had followed her to the woods
evidently by appointment. Cousin Jane felt
this must be the case, though she knew noth-
ing of the intimacy that had existed between
the two young people. She was deep and far-
sighted, and had noticed some things in Miss
Hilliard’s manner of late, that had given rise
to suspicions, that she scarcely dared to admit
even to herself, and feeling conscious that her
cousin Anna (Miss Hilliard) was not as strong
in character, as herself, and knowing she was
several years younger and had seen so little of
what is termed society, she determined to stand
guard, without being officious, and find out if
possible why Miss Hilliard took such long 
rambles and whether there was any real cause
for concealment. So far she had not been
able to discover anything tangible upon which
to base her suspicions, or that would give her
an opportunity to speak to her cousin except
in the most casual way; to be sure she had
sometimes said, “your charities take up a great
deal of your time, can’t you divide this benevo-
lent work with me?” To such questioning Miss
Hilliard would generally reply, “O, I like to
go among the poor and sick, and take notes of
the way in which my father’s affairs are
managed; indeed I should like to see many
improvements made in the condition of the

[Column 2]
working people.” Though these answers did
not quite satisfy cousin Jane, yet she would
not persist in her questionings, but once or
twice had made the remark, “Cousin Anna
you never have seemed to me to be in the least
practical certainly your tastes do not tend
in that direction.” “Appearances are
sometimes deceptive,” Miss Hilliard replied on
one occasion, and then smiled significantly.
The intonation of her voice, more than the
words, had pained her cousin, she could not
help thinking it was a covert reply, and that
perhaps she had, though spoken in jest, a
double meaning.
   Cousin Jane was only a visitor at the Castle,
she knew she had no positive right to claim
the confidence of her imperious cousin, but
she saw how peculiarly embarrassing was the
situation Miss Hilliard occupied for a young
girl, and how much was expected of her from
her father of which she was totally ignorant.
With only the aid of hired governesses and
masters to instruct her, and these changed at
the caprice of the father whenever they of-
fended him; cousin Jane had judged from the
first, and rightly too, that such influences were
not in the least calculated to discipline her
cousin in proper channels of thought, or guide
her inclinations, or actions towards lofty or
grand aspirations to qualify her for the re-
sponsible position she would be expected to fill
in the near future.
   Her mother Lady Hilliard had died when
she gave birth to the little girl “Anna,” and
the father had never married again, nor had
he devoted much time or thought upon the
education or training of his only child and
heir. Disappointment at first because she was
a girl, had made him cold and indifferent to
the little one, and even the death of his wife
had not softened his heart; though as the child
grew in years, she developed more and more
the tender graces of her angelic mother; but
even this did not touch any sympathetic chord
in the bosom of this man of the world, whose
pride was more than his fortune, and whose
lineal rank far exceeded his merit. He al-
lowed little Anna to grow up almost entirely
under the tutelage of a French governess, who
had been educated in a convent and was full
of duplicity and cunning; she had an Italian
music master, whose temper was almost uncon-
trollable and who was entirely without prin-
ciple, petting and praising her or
scolding her by turns; these and the servants
constituted the household, except on rare occa-
sions some distant relative would come for a
few days and relieve temporarily the dreary
monotony, but Sir Edward never encouraged
such visits, and the stay was always brief. He
had his particular friends, now and then to
dine, or for the hunting season, but Miss Anna
was never brought out on such occasions. She
had scarcely been allowed to associate with
any of the young girls when a child, though
she had often been invited; her father was very
strict in his way and when occasionally she
had asked permission of him to attend some
little party or gathering, he had been so un-
kind and uncivil that she preferred staying at
home, rather than brave his displeasure or
risk a refusal.
   The governess, however, was very fond of
going out herself and as she was Miss Anna’s
chaperone at all times, consequently would
intercede with the father until he would con-
sent to their going if reluctantly. Miss Anna


[Column 1]
had been taught dancing under a proficient
master, and in this accomplishment she ex-
celled all the girls in that vicinity even as a
child.  Her education in dancing, music and
society manners had not been neglected; al-
though morally no foundation had been laid
upon which to build character.  Beautiful,
fascinating, abounding in ideality, with all the
charms of budding womanhood, this tender
sensitive girl was left to grow up without any
proper balance to control her feelings or her
judgment, and without any domestic affection
filial love or any true love at all, as a guide or
light upon the pathway of life.  What is
wealth or distinction of rank or empty titles
or even a Castle for a dwelling place without 
love? And yet many children are thus reared
in luxuriant homes (if such they can be called)
as well as in the hovels, the by-ways; and also
in the Asylums where the children of the
poor, aye, and sometimes of the rich grow up
utterly alone in the world, so far as love is
concerned.
	Cousin Jane had only been a short time at
the Castle when she became aware of the
great lack in Miss Hilliard’s life, and she
studiously set about working a reform, but
planning wisely and carefully to pave the way
for a change in the young girl’s life.  Luckily
Miss Jane Conway was the niece of Sir Ed-
ward, the daughter of a favorite sister, who
had however married a poor clergyman, but
he forgave her when she died and had the
generosity to invite her only daughter to come
to the Castle with him, after the funeral was 
over, adding, “I think my Anna will be glad
of a woman in the house, and it will be a re-
lief to me.”
    Once installed in the old mansion, which
was little more than a ruin, her presence was
felt by all in the establishment—her quiet
dignity and self-possession, her modest deport-
ment at all times, and her cheerfulness, even
though it was apparent she realized the loss
of her mother, won all hearts.  Her stern old
uncle unbent a little when with her persuasive
eloquence she besought him to give them more
of his company in the drawing room, aud he
was not at all aware that he was yielding little
by little, to this rather plain, unpretentious
young woman, whom he had only thought to
shelter for a time beneath his aristocratic roof.
	Cousin Jane did not question Miss Anna
when she woke from her restless, unrefreshing
sleep, she was too wise for that, she saw how
prostrate in body she was, as well as crushed
in spirit, and she only treated her as if she
were a little child, and sought to soothe her in
every possible tender way.  She was glad
when the Dr. came in with his cheery good
morning, and asked in a fatherly way after
his patient; glad too that he suspected nothing
amiss, but only spoke of her having taken a
heavy cold; and that she would be all right
in a few days, with good nursing.  During the
day cousin Jane noticed how very uneasy her
cousin was, and that every time the door
opened or any one stirred outside how dis-
turbed she seemed, and she guessed that she
was in constant expectation, or fear of the
coming of the daring young man, who had 
caused this misfortune, and from whom her
cousin Jane thought she had only been rescued
by a special interposition of Providence.
What her feelings were towards him, or in
what way or by what means he had beguiled
her unwary feet Miss Conway had no knowl-
edge.  She was fully aware however of the
weakness of Miss Anna’s character, and that she
had never been taught any of the practical
lessons of life, by which she had received
definite instruction, illustrated by the true and
noble example of her sainted mother.
	Miss Hilliard did not once ask for her father,
nor for any one, but lay moaning and tossing
though docile as a child with her cousin; the
housekeeper and the governess had both asked
to see her, but, the self-reliant nurse had re-
fused them, telling them kindly she needed no
further help than from Miss Hilliard’s own
maid, and they retired crest-fallen, for they
mistrusted something unusal and were full of
curiosity as the groom had told them that
morning that he was sure Miss Conway had
brought “My Lady” home on horseback, for
only one horse had been saddled, or taken
out, and he found him loose, with the saddle
slipping off by the old elm near the front 
entrance, and “he was all in a foaming sweat
and just ready to drop with fatigue, and sure
it’ll take him days to get right again.”
    “What’ll ye tell the master,” said the house-
keeper, “you can’t keep him from knowing
about the horse any way?” “Leave that to me
I knows my own business!” And away he
went grumbling to himself about “wimen folks
al’ays a prying into other folks business.”
   The days went by, one after another, and
there was very little change in Miss Hilliard’s
condition; her father had returned late one
night, bringing a party of gentlemen with him;
and on his arrival had been told almost im-
mediately of his daughter’s illness by the
housekeeper. At first he was somewhat alarmed 
but became re-assured after hearing from Dr.
Bland, his own physician, that there was really 
no danger, and that it would be quite unneces-
sary to have a nurse as Miss Conway was fully
competent, and most faithful in carrying out
the Dr’s. instructions.  The only objection the
father raised to this was, “I wanted my niece
to take charge of my guests, to sit at the table
with us, and entertain them, she can relieve
me greatly in these matters; I have always
had to do all this myself, and Jane is neither
young nor pretty, so there is nothing to risk in
her case.  She talks well, is well read, knows
all about the laws and statutes of the country,
is well versed in history, and can ride a horse
as well as most gentlemen trained for the
chase;—I’m proud of her and I like to have
her near me, she always knows the right thing 
to say to people, and is modest withal, and ‘by
Jove’ I’ve never seen a woman like her.”
   The Dr. listened attentively until he had
finished and then in his cool, deliberate way,
politely informed him that his daughter’s re-
covery was of more consequence than the en-
tertaining of his guests.  Sir Edward winced
a little under this sarcasm, but replied, “a
hired nurse would do just as well and save my
niece the fatigue of night-watching.” “No
hired nurse however competent would do as 
well as Miss Conway, because she loves her,
and love is everything,” was the Dr’s re-
joinder.
   “You’ll have your way I suppose in despite of
me, Dr’s, always do, so let the matter rest, I
hope Anna will soon be out again!”
   “In a day or two more she’ll be able to
come down stairs, her constitution is a remark-
ably fine one, there is scarcely such a girl in
the kingdom, beautiful as a midsummer night’s
dream.”
   “O, as to that, she is just like her mother
a sort of lily, dainty and fair, but frail and
weak, and yielding, that is my ideal for women
we do not want them to be our masters,” said
Sir Edward.  Dr. Bland retorted “how about
Miss Conway then, she is not frail, nor weak,
nor yielding, according to your estimate of
her, yet you admire her amazingly?” “Just
as I would a young man, or boy, she pleases
me, amuses me in fact, she is the most inde-
pendent specimen of womanhood I have ever
seen;” and so the colloquy ended.
	Sir Edward did not show the least affection
for his child even in her illness, when he
visited; her to be sure he patted her on the 
head and smoothed back her shining hair;
remarking at the time “how very like your
mother,” but there was no depth of feeling,
the fountain of his heart was not stirred,
though he saw her prostrated with physical
suffering and yet she was all he had to bestow
affection upon.  The poor girl was longing for
love, her nature required it, she would have
repaid it a hundred fold, but no! no! it was not 
to be.  The selfish, heartless father feasted
his friends and rode after the hounds, while
his only child lay feeble in body, and melan-
choly in mind, without a father’s tender care,
and only inquired after from day to day
through the servants.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY IN MEXICO.

COLONIA DUBLAR, CHIHUAHUA MEXICO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this far off land
would be of interest to the readers of your
valuable paper, I will endeavor to give you an
account of our condition here. This ward was
organized on the 19th inst. by Apostle George
Teasdale, who called a meeting on the following
morning at 11 o'clock a. m. for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society.  There were pres-
ent of the Priesthood, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Bishop Winslow Farr, Elders Willard 
Carroll and B. H. Allred.  Meeting was called
to order by Bishop Winslow Farr, singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise, &c;" opening
prayer by Elder Willard Carroll, singing
"Where the voice of friendship's heard, &c."
Apostle Teasdale then called for an enrollment
of all the sisters who desired to  become mem-
bers of the Society, all the sisters present gave
their names, being thirty in number.  Apostle
Teasdale in connection with the Bishop and
Elders present then proceeded to organize 
the Society; the officers are as follows: Ida I.
Mortensen, President; Lydia K. Young and
Charlotte Carroll, Counselors; Phebe I. Allred,
Secretary; Josepha Wright, Ass't. Secretary;
Nancy Williams, Treasurer.  We were blessed
with the out pourings of the spirit of God, and
had a goodly time.  Meeting was adjourned
until 3 o'clock p. m. singing, and benediction
pronounced by President Ida I. Mortensen.

	Three o'clock p.m., meeting was resumed,
Pres. Ida I. Mortensen presiding, singing,
"Once more we come before our God, &c."
Opening prayer by Coun. Lydia K. Young,
singing "With joy we own Thy servants Lord
&c."  The roll was called showing the presence
of 29 members, minutes of the morning meeting
read and approved.
	Apostle Teasdale said "I want an expres-
sion of the sisters' that I may know how they 
feel."  A goodly number of the sisters arose
and expressed their desires to improve the
opportunity now presented through this organi-
zation, and that they had greatly felt the
lack of the Relief Society, were grateful that
the time had come that they were favored
thus etc.
	Apostle Teasdale then addressed the as-
sembly, spoke at some length giving the sisters
good instructions, promising them in the name
of Christ his Master that if they were faith-
ful in the discharge of their duties that it 
would not be long until they should have 
their own grain bins, and meeting houses, and
they should be blessed to overflowing; he ex-
horted all to diligence, and invoked the bless-
ings of God upon the people of this Colony.
	Bishop Winslow Farr also spoke very en-
couragingly to the assembly.  Meeting was
then adjourned until the first Thursday in
August. Singing, "A Saint, and is the title
mine, &c."  Benediction by Bishop Winslow
Farr.	
	IDA I. ALLRED, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"LET THE DEAD BURY THE DEAD"

'Tis gone, with its joys and sorrows;
Its sunshine and storms of rain:
Look not away in the distance,
On relics of grief and pain;
Look up, dear friends, instead:
Let the dead year bury its dead!

What if our pride has suffered?
What if the hour of need
Has shown that the friend we trusted
Was worse than a broken reed?
Look up, though our hearts have bled:
Let the dead year bury its dead.

Let us count the abundant mercies
Our one great Friend has sent;
The days of our light and darkness—
All gifts of one sweet intent.
No matter the tears we shed:
Let the dead year bury its dead.

Ah, youth has been taught stern lessons,
And we of maturer years
Have learned a yet keener knowledge
Of life's vain hopes and fears.
How surely God's hand hath led!
Let the dead year bury its dead,

And the new-born year shall find us
Courageous, alert and strong;
Girt up for the strife before us,
Though sharp the trial and long.
On, on, with a firmer tread,
While the dead year buries its dead.
	SELECTED.


DEAR SON SEYMOUR.

I am sitting all alone tonight,
So thought I would a letter write;
For though I know that scribbling rhyme,
Is often but a waste of time;
And that I think I see you smile,
Yet I will thus the time beguile;
Last night from you I had a line
To say that you'd arrived on time,
And though I had but just come home
started out once more to roam,
Through snow and mud; that I might tell
Helen and children all were well.
I found them well and busy too;
Preparing things to come to you;
The little children round me came,
I almost thought they were the same
That once had nestled on my knee,
So sweet and full of love for me.
Oh foolish heart! How vain the thought,
(Though for a moment! soon 'twas naught)
That time had stopped upon his track
And given me my children back;
For it was but the other day
That you were small and young as they;
I murmured not when hard my lot
Nor thought too many I had got,
Though wearied oft with cares and noise
I loved you well! My girls and boys;
When they were sick Oh how I wept,
And watched and prayed while others slept,
And held their heads, and soothed their pain
And then when they would smile again,
Would not have changed for wealth of worlds,
For I had still my boys and girls;
From two loved ones I had to part,
And lay them by with breaking heart,
And though I shed most bitter tears.
Yet wisdom cometh with the years;
And now I know they're free from strife
And life's turmoil with sorrow rife;
And though they left me at life's dawn,
Yet in the Resurrection Morn;
I shall again receive with joy,
And welcome back, my girl and boy.
But where are all the others gone?
I see them all at night or morn?
No more they prattle at my knee,
No more their little plays I see,
And thus I find now years have flown,
That I am left almost alone;
For though 'tis true I sometimes see


Some men and women come to me 
Who boldly talk of snares and strife 
Of business cares, of husband, wife 
Though other loves and joys they claim
And they for this are not to blame,
But can it be they are the same?
That once I rocked upon my breast,
And lulled them in my arms to rest.
Oh, how I grieve to see them go,
And yet I know it must be so,
May the good God who reigns above
Preserve the children of my Love,
That we may meet upon that shore,
Where tears and partings are no more.
Where freed from life's vain cares and noise,
I there may find my girls and boys 
PHEBE C. YOUNG. 
February 28, 1891.


[column 1]
	PLASANT PRIMARY WORK.

	Sunday Aug. 23rd, we saw quietly laid to
rest in the Spanish Fork cemetery the remains
of a good woman, a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and our life long, devoted friend, Sister Millie
Lewis Gay and with a resigned though sor-
rowful heart turned away from the kind and
patient husband, and six children ranging
in age from the wee toddler to the youthful
maidens verging into the slippery paths which
too often lead astray. Trusting them to the
loving care of Him who doeth all things well.

	We joined Sisters Anna K. Smoot and
Eliza Taylor, of the Stake Presidency of the
Primary Association of the Utah Stake and
traveled on to Santaquin, where a meeting of
the children awaited us at 10 o'clock on Mon-
day morning. A house full of parents and
children was a cheering sight; the exercises
shert, cheerful, and suitable for children, were
well rendered to the credit of Pres. Wall and
Counselors.
	At 3 p. m. we met with the Association of
Spring Lake Villa, lately organized and doing
creditable work, considering all things—under
the care of Sister Butler and Counselors who
felt encouraged to still press on in their up-
hill work, of training the little ones in widely
scattered homes.
	That evening we met with the officers of the
Payson district at the home of Pres. Amy
Hancock, who kindly entertained us. It was
a treat to meet with those who were intimate
with Joseph Smith and are ever ready to tes-
ify that he was a Prophet of God.
	Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock the children
and mothers made a good-sized audience in
the Payson meeting house; here, too the child-
ren rendered some very creditable exercises
and kept good order, and appeared to enjoy
singing, "We are the children of the Saints,"
while marching, led by one of the visiting
ladies. At noon we were entertained by the
officers in the vestry which was tastefully
decorated with vines, flowers and flags, and
enjoyed one of the most inviting picnics with
ice cream, fruit, etc., and were sent on our way
rejoicing to Salem, where we were surprised to
see the house full by 3, p. m. Prompt lively
singing by all the children was a delightful
feature, and a well rendered programme satis-
fied us that all were persevering, energetic,
workers.
	In the evening we passed up to Spanish
Fork and held a meeting with the officers of
that District and gladly sought rest and
strength for the coming morrow.
	Wednesday Aug. 26th was an interesting
day for Primary people large and small, in
Spanish Fork; at 10 a. m. the officers, from
all parts of the Stake, met in the
meeting house; this was an assembly to be
proud of, and thankful for; excepting one or
two, every association was represented from
the Lake shore to the canon heights, at Mill

[column 2]
Fork, where the Primary is the only living
organization. Coun. Sarah E. Cluff, Sec.
Mabel Pratt, Ass't Sec. Ida Cheever and
Treas. Ottelia Measer joined the company
making what is seldom seen at any meeting a
complete corps of Stake officers. Here is
Pres. Smoot's special field of action, with
anxious, yet womanly dignity, she hears all
reports; accepts suggestions and wisely attends
to all details of business pertaining to Primary
work. The perfect harmony of feeling, unity
of purpose, and loving consideration toward
each other came the nearest to our ideal of
what should exist of anything we had yet seen.
	At 3 p. m. the Conference opened with a
house crowded in every part, a number of
brethren, among them Bishop Snell, en-
couraged us by their presence, and the exercises
under the direction of District Pres. Argyle,
were all well chosen, varied and short, and
every detail of the conference pre-arranged
with careful fore thought and hard labor.
The singing, under the direction of Brother
Owen Rowe was an evidence of patient pains
taking interest in drilling the little ones for
this occasion, they all sang with force, vim and
sprightliness, so attractive in childish music—
and pleased us better than anything in our
travels. Two original addresses, very prettily
delivered, delighted us, as did much that we
have not space to mention, and the benedic-
tion was pronounced by a little boy about 6
years of age, and could be distinctly heard by
the congregation.
	At noon the good people of Spanish Fork,
more firmly established their reputation for
hospitality by entertaining all visitors. A
sumptuous dinner being served in the dancing
hall. The long tables groaned under the
weight of the good things of the earth so
lavishly spread, and temptingly served by
pretty Primary girls, in airy white dresses and
dainty caps,—some of the young ladies lent a
charm to the hour with sweet strains from voice
and piano. Beautiful flowers gladdened the eye.
and altogether it was a scene long to be re-
membered with joy. One of the hospitable
druggists of the town, invited all the visitors
to quench their thirst at his soda water foun-
tain which was gratefully accepted.
	That night we left Spanish Fork with a
sense of true satisfaction in our profitable
reunion; and on Thursday another time of re-
joicing similar to the last only on a smaller
scale awaited us in Springville. A large
audience of parents and children was
gathered at the meeting house;—the largest
attendance of mothers seen at any place. One
song by the children, "Why parents don't visit
the school," was sung in excellent style by the
little ones, having been carefully trained by
Sister Hannah Friel, and repeated by request;
the programme throughout was a credit to
teachers and children.
	Coun. S. E. Cluff gave the children some
timely advice against the growing evil of card
playing.—and at the close all visitors repaired
to the home of District Pres. Elizabeth
Packard where they were waited upon by the
officers to a tempting and substantial dinner.
Here we all parted with a hearty "God bless
you" for each other. Our faith strengthened
in the "Hope of Israel" and a fixed determina-
tion to more firmly establish the Primary
cause, in all the Stakes of Zion.
	LILLIE FREEZE.


The late Mrs. Sawtelle made an excellent
lawyer, notwithstanding the fact that only a
few years ago many well-meaning people said
that no woman could make a good lawyer.
Probably the majority of women cannot make
good lawyers. Neither can the majority of
men.—Boston Globe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor. 
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No 
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
Exponent office., No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, expect Sunday.
Address all buisness communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]
THIS AND THAT.
ONE of the best things we have heard of re-
cently is the gratifying news of the Amnesty
granted to Joseph F. Smith by President Harri-
son. To be under the ban of the law suffering
for conscience sake, for a religious principle for 
so many years, is to a man like him a severe
ordeal to say the least, and to be once more free
to breathe the pure air of heaven without fear of
molestation, must be joy indeed to such an inde- 
pendent American. To see Pres. Smith once
more in his accustomed place upon the stand in
the House of the Lord on the Sabbath day will be
a general cause of rejoicing.

TELEGRAMS from New Zealand under the date
of September 5th, announce the fact that "the
House of Representatives of New Zealand passed
a bill granting the residential suffrage to women
and qualifying women for election to Parliament."
This is indeed startling news and we hope the
same influence may spread far and wide; and it
will, when once the doors of legislative halls and
parliaments are opened to women, it will be a
lever to move other obstacles out of the way of
woman's progress, and one by one, the walls of 
prejudice will be broken apart and inroads made,
that will give greater light and power and strength
until all barriers will at last be removed, and the
women of the near future stand equal with man
and a grander and nobler and purer condition of
things in all the departments of life and work
because of the more complete harmony which will
be the result.

	WE had hoped and expected ere this to have
had something more positive to report from the
Lady Commissioners for Utah in regard to Wo-
man’s work for the World’s Fair, but have heard
nothing except by telegrams in the daily papers.
We present the following as the most important
of these dispatches.
“Late last night at a conference of the com-
missioners and lady managers of the Territories,
it was agreed that the Territories should consoli-
date in erecting one building for their exhibits.
It shall cost not less than $10,000. 
Behind closed doors the board considered the
circular letters that have been sent out from time
to time in connection with the Queen Isabella
Association. Mrs. Wilkins introduced a resolu-
tion, which was carried, that the lady manager
who assisted or encouraged the sending out of
literature derogatory to the board, should be ex-
pelled from the board and the State sending her
requested to remove her from all connection with
the board.
“The board of lady managers of the World’s
Fair, Sep. 8, appointed a committee to select ex-
amples of specially notable and brilliant achieve- 
ments of women, to be made into a separate dis-

[Column 2]
play in the woman’s building. This display will
range from literature and art to cookery. It was 
announced that a portion of the money set apart
for foreign advertising would probably be made
available for sending agents abroad to work in
the interest of the women's department.

THE Young Woman’s Journal has just com- 
pleted its second volume, it is edited by Susa
Young Gates, daughter of Brigham Young, pre-
viously a well-known and popular writer over the
signature of Homespun. Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor 
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. has charge of the
Department devoted to the special interests of
that organization. The Journal has been quite
successful during the past two years of its publi-
cation and has undoubtedly a brilliant future be-
fore it, for the young women of the Church seem
to have taken hold of the work with determina-
tion and energy and with them there should be no
failures. The poetry it contains has been excep-
tionally good; and the editor has spared no pains
to make it useful and acceptable and entertaining
to the young people. Her efforts in this direc-
tion are worthy of great praise. The biographic- 
al sketches of young women actively engaged
in association work, with their pictures is a de-
lightful feature of the journal. The circular for
the coming year has been issued and contains
notices of the several departments into which the
magazine will be divided, among which are many
noticeable features, viz; The picture gallery, the
literary department, fashion department, Consti-
tutional Government, hygienic department and
several others of equal interest. The mechani-
cal work of the magazine is a great recommenda-
tion. It is published at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor, and that office has every facility for
doing good work in the way of printing, binding
etc. The Journal is $2,00 per year, and it is
well worth the price. We wish the Journal the
utmost success and sincerely hope and believe it
will do missionary work at home and abroad.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	If subscribers who do not receive their papers
will make direct complaint to this office and give
their proper address the matter will be promptly
attended to, if the fault is here, and if elsewhere,
we will endeavor to find out the cause of delay
and remedy it. Mistakes are certainly not made
intentionally; and it is always better to make a
formal complaint as it gives opportunity to set the
matter right, and by doing this much annoyance
might be avoided. Our agents in the various
wards of the several Stakes are earnestly urged
to renew their diligence, and canvass their dis-
tricts thoroughly, that the paper may receive the
support and patronage so much needed, to pub-
lish it, at so low a figure as one dollar a year,
which price should put it within the reach of
every family in Zion. If a sufficient number of
subscribers could be obtained, the EXPONENT
could be issued weekly, which would make it
much more desirable to the public and a greater
help to all the womens organizations it represents.


AUNT PRESENDIA'S BIRTHDAY.

	Some of the friends of the veteran Mother in
Israel, Sister Presendia L. Kimball gathered at
her residence on Monday, September 7, in honor
of the 81st Anniversary of her birthday. There
were two gentlemen and about forty ladies pres-
ent, her sister Pres. Zina D. H. Young being one
of the number, and they had a most enjoyable
time. After partaking of some delicious refresh-
ments, brought with them for the occasion, they
had a spiritual feast of singing, prayer, and bear-
ing testimony; the gifts of the Gospel were also
manifest and altogether it was a time of rejoicing


to all present. Sister Kimball has been confined
to the house for some months, until very recently
and now can only get out on crutches. Her
lameness was caused by an accident, when she
put her hip out of joint,and she has suffered ever
since. We join with the many friends of this
honored lady in wishing her every blessing that
her heart desires, and that her last days may be
her best days, and that she may continue in the
future as she has in the past to bless the daughters
of Zion.


A WHITNEY GATHERING.

	At the residence of Brother Geo. D. Pyper on
Tuesday Sep. 8, there was quite an interesting
gathering of the Whitney family. The party was
in honor of the birthday anniversary of Sister
Mary C. Whitney, Mrs. Pyper's mother. Count-
ing children there were about fifty in all. There
were two of the daughters of Bishop Newel K.
Whitney present, Mary Jane Groo, and Mell C.
Woods, daughters-in-law Helen M. Whitney and
Mary C. Whitney; grandchildren quite a number,
among whom were Bishop O. F. Whitney, Horace
G. Whitney, Vilate Groo Taylor, and Emma
Wells Sears, each representing a distinct branch
of the family. All the children of Mary C.
Whitney, eleven in number, were present, and as
five of them are married there were daughters-in
law, and sons-in-law, and grandchildren, and a
fine looking company they were; of which the
mother may be justly proud; and indeed she
looked radiantly happy and satisfied.
	The evening was passed very pleasantly in
social conversation, and (of course) supper was
served in the most approved and hospitable style;
tables tastefully arranged and nothing lacking to
tempt the most fastidious; after the feast was
over and the parlors were filled again, there was
more brilliant conversation; and music vocal and
instrumental by the Whitney boys and girls their
husbands, wives, and beaux. This was the most
enjoyable feature of all, though perhaps the
party would not have been a perfect success
without the supper, but "music hath charms,"and
when we hear such voices as those of Messrs. Pyper
and Whitney, and young Ensign and Owen, and
we must not forget Bishop Whitney, or the
Whitney girls either, Helen Bourne, Em Pyper,
Flod Dinwoody, these are not all, but suffice it to
say, the singing was the cream of the entertain-
ment at least to the writer.


A RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED.

	The Relief Society of the Second Ward in this
City was reorganized on Thursday September
3rd; the death of the former President Sister
Sarah Smith Wheeler, necessitating its reorgani-
zation. The meeting was held at 2 p. m. in the
Ward meeting house. Bishop L. G. Hardy and
Counselors present, also Sister Zina D. H. Young
who presides over the Relief Society as a whole
in all its Stakes and branches, and Sister E. B.
Wells. Sisters Ann Mc'Gregor and Augusta
Leech, Counselors to Sister Wheeler and also
the Secretary, Sister Sarah Mitchell and the
Treasurer, Sister Phebe C. Young, with many of
the teachers and members of the Society made a
fair sized audience. After the usual opening ex-
ercises of singing and prayer, the Bishop placed
in nomination the name of Sister Mary Elizabeth
Bassett as President of the Relief Society of the
Ward, which was voted upon unanimously. Sister
Bassett chose for her Counselors Sister Sarah
Mitchell and Maria Corbett who were sustained
in this position by all present. Sister Margaret
Caine was selected for Secretary, Sister Johanna
Olsen, Ass't Sec., and Sister Phebe C. Young as
Treasurer. These sisters were all sustained b


vote making the organization complete. The
Bishop and his Counselors Brother Gallagher
and Brother Jenson with Brother Wm. Hart set
the new officers apart.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sisters Mc'-
Gregor and Leech for their able services during
the many years they had labored in the Society.
Suitable remarks were made by the Bishop, who
gave the sisters every encouragement to perse-
vere in the path of duty; the retiring officers
spoke appropriately, also the newly elected board
of officers, and Pres. Z. D. H. Young gave some
valuable instructions to the sisters, and enjoined
upon them to cultivate love and union, urged
them to patronize home publicatians and especi-
ally the EXPONENT. Sister E. B. Wells followed
in a similar strain, and also explained some
matters not quite clearly understood pertaining
to the National Council and Woman Suffrage
Convention. Meeting closed with singing and
benediction.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A TRIP TO CANADA.

	Our Duty and Pleasure; by making this our
motto how much more pleasure we can enjoy in
this life, and be all the time preparing wisely for
the next existence. And how pleasant it is to be
associated; and dwell with those we love.
	I left this City May 13, last; a worthy brother
and his wife were my company from Logan to
Canada, all went well on the journey, until we
came to Great Falls the last station in Montana;
this is a thrifty town, pleasantly situated on the
Missouri river, with two iron bridges, several
Churches etc., etc. On Saturday the 18th, it was
announced “no train from Canada until Mon-
day.” All right, Sunday morning at 9 a. m. a
brass band was in full blast, lovely music, there
was a team with five banners, then came 17 citi
zens carriages,and a team with two span of horses
filled with beer kegs. Sabbath Day there, is a
day of pleasure; the people were mostly Scandi-
navians, a gala day. At 3, p. m. a heavy shower
caused the return in less order than they left, but
the 72 kegs of beer had been drank.
	Monday evening we arrived at Lethbridge and
Tuesday morning took carriage and in the eve-
ning arrived at Cardston amidst the dear ones.
My daughter had been blest through the young
sisters fasting and praying and the blessing of
the Relief Society, after a four weeks siege with
lagrippe and as it were, was recued by the bless-
ing of the Lord from leaving a young family with-
out a mother. It called forth a mother’s grati-
tude to the Lord and to the sisters.
	On the 24th of May Pres. Card arrived home
from Utah in good health, business had detained
him much longer than he expected.
	The 2nd of June the Relief Society met at
Pres. Card’s house; before the meeting closed
the news came that Brother Leavitt was dying,
and as he was living but a few steps distant I
was asked to go over; in about fifteen minutes
afterwards all was over. The day before he was
dressed and out of doors, no one thought of his
going to leave us, he was a tower of strength in
the little settlement, always at his post of duty;
all felt the bereavement.
	All here are very busy attending to the duties
of living in a new country, the sisters were ever
diligent in their duties attending meetings and
looking after the needy of which there are but
few, but all well cared for spiritually and tem-
porally. 
	Ten children were added to the number in
Cardston the short time I was there, I never saw
more healthy children than those born in that
country, not one but was fine-looking that I saw
in Canada. The sweet, quiet, spirit of peace that
reigns there is like the former days in Salt Lake.
	On the 5th of June, we were favored with the

[Column 2]
arrival of Wilby Dougall from Salt Lake City,
whose genial and devoted spirit in the Gospel
cheered us all, and the settlement with his music,
at all our meetings especially the Sabbath
Schools.
	We had a number of distinguished visitors
looking after the welfare of the citizens. In this
thrifty little town there are about 400 Latter-day
Saints; the country has been written up on ac-
count of the lovely grass, grain and vegetables
that it produces, but it must be seen to be appre-
ciated.
	The morning quiet (for the sun rises about four
in the Summer and shines right in the North
window), the quiet is somewhat disturbed by
Brother Bate’s wagon filled with cans gathering
up the milk for the cheese factory; about 500
gallons are daily made into cheese; this is quite
a help to the sisters; for butter making they have
a good ice-house, but no refrigerators as yet;
the season here has been cool and rainy as it has
been elsewhere.
	On the 3rd of July at 9, a. m. a true Latter-day
Saint finished a good work upon earth; he was
one of our most useful men, Morgan L. Hinman,
who had been for a long time a sufferer with con-
sumption. So closed the mortal career of this
good faithful man, his wife who is here has
buried 8 children and two husbands, yet like unto
Job patient and true.
	For several days and nights it rained almost
continuously until the water was never higher,
the people lined the banks, their anxiety was so
great.
	On the 13th of July, Monday, at 3 p. m. was
Primary Day, the children of the Associatio
with the officers, the Relief Society and Youn
Ladies’ Association, met at the meeting house,
and this was the parting or farewell spiritual
feast. It was the first time my daughter had at-
tended meeting for a considerable time. The
gifts of the Gospel were bestowed on this occa-
sion to comfort and cheer us, for all present were
separated from loved ones; the Lord is no re-
spector of persons; His spirit is given to all those
who diligently seek for it. After the meeting we
parted with the dear sisters there assembled
knowing in whom to put our trust, which
lightens the parting, and grateful and full of love
we felt to those who had so kindly remembered us.
	On the 14th of July at 9 a. m. we left our dear
ones there, thankful we had enjoyed the privilege
of visiting the dear daughter and family; I had
again a touch of Lagrippe and therefore thought
it best to return home earlier than I had antici-
pated.
	On arriving at Logan, and once more having
the privilege to look upon the Temple it was truly
joyful to me. I stayed to see the friends there
two days and arrived at home in Salt Lake City
on the 23rd of July to meet with the dear ones
here, and see the walls of another Temple, with
its towers almost completed, and the other sacred
edifices wherein we assemble to worship before
the Lord from time to time; and I was in time to
witness with thoughtfulness our silent 24th of
July which caused many reflections in my  mind
upon the changes that have taken place.
	I am pleased that I had the opportunity of
visiting the saints in Canada and I can testify to
their faithfulness, and humility; they are striving
to perform their duties, yet they labor under
many disadvantages, and have not the precious
privileges we enjoy, who live as it were “under
the droppings of the sanctuary.”
	I am grateful to my Heavenly Father that He has
preserved my life to return home again and be
associated with my sisters in the labors of the
Relief Society; and I am ever desirous of mak-
ing duty a pleasure, and I pray for all my dear
sisters that we may ever have the blessing of the
Lord upon our efforts to labor in the line of our
duty to which we have been called, and that we

[Column 3]
may have an especial care for the needy, the aged,
the sick, and the suffering in love and in meek-
ness, and by so doing our efforts will be pros-
pered and great good will be the result.
	I would recommend also to the sisters to sus-
tain our home interests, trade with our own peo-
ple and patronize home industries. The Woman’s
Store has been established by our sisters, let us
sustain it by our works and our faith; and do not
forget to sustain our woman’s paper the EXPON-
ENT, all these things are to our interest and we
should be diligent in little things as well as in
greater ones. Let us pray for each other and
for all the household of faith, these are a few of
my thoughts for you my sisters and may we re-
main faithful in all things unto the end.
			Lovingly Your Sister,
						ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


FIRST ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE
P. C. WOMAN’S PRESS ASSOCIATION.
	The lady writers of the Pacific Coast will hold
a three days’ Convention (instead of two as be-
fore stated) commencing Sept. 21st. There will
be a session each morning at 10 o’clock and
another in the afternoon at 2, for business only,
but the evening of Wed. 23rd inst. will be de-
voted to a literary and musical programme, when
the doors will be thrown open to the public. The
meetings commence at 8 p.m. and will include ad-
dresses by Mrs. Nellie B. Eyster, Pres. P. C. W.
P. A., Mrs. Emily S.Y. Parkhurst, Cor. Sec. P.
C. W. P. A., Miss E.D. Keith (Di Vernon S.F.
“News-Letter”), Mrs. Alice C. Waterman, Ade-
line Knapp, S.F. “Call,” Alice Kingsbury Cooley.
	Short poems will be given by Mrs. Emily B.
Powell, Charlotte Perkins Stetson, and Lillian
Plunkett. Those who will represent the musical
portion of the programme are, Henry Kirke
White Jr., Miss Jerome and Mrs. Marian Taylor,
L. C. M. Complimentary tickets may be obtained 
from Mrs. Parkhurst, 1419 Taylor St., or from
any member of the Association, but as the de-
mand for them is already very great, it will be
necessary—for those who wish to be present—to
make an early application, in order to receive 
their admittance.


LETTER FROM ARIZONA.
Pima, Arizona, Aug. 21st, 1891.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
MY DEAR SISTER:
Your dear, welcome letter was duly received
and was a comfort to me as I was just recovering
from a severe attack of la grippe having been
very low; this accounts for my long silence, I 
thought I would wait until I collected some
money due on EXPONENT and able to write my-
self, and tell you how happy I was in the society
of your dear husband, and the comforting influence
that rested upon me and my dear daughter, now
they are both gone; but that does not erase that
bright spot in my life.  Truly he was one of God's 
noble ministers, ministering to heirs of salvation.
I am now regaining my health; and I begin to
more than ever feel that truly the harvest is great
and the laborers are few, and that I must double
my diligence and make an extra effort to perform
my labors, because of the lethargy and indiffer-
ence there is over the people which is almost un-
bearable.  When the people of God cease to
reverence their leaders by teaching their counsels
to the rising generation they cease to make that
progress that should characterize His saints.
	Now dear Sister remember me to the sisters
 of the Central board of the Relief Society and all my
dear sisters and friends.  The Lord willing I
hope to come to the April Conference, as it would
not be wisdom for me to come in the winter on
account of my lungs.


The EXPONENT is worthy of our best endeavors
and recommends itself to all the faithful.
	God bless you in your labors is the prayer of
your devoted Sister.
			W. East.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


FRANCHISE NOTES FROM WYOMING.

	Oregon has at last organized for active work.
A letter from there says:
	Henceforth we expect to be classed with the
advance guard on this question. Mrs. R. M.
Robb, Fossil, Gilham County, has been appointed
State Superintendent of Franchise.
	Arizona is putting on her holiday attire for the
Constitutional Convention, which will meet in
September. The women are hopeful, for the
Legislature came near giving them the right of
suffrage last winter. They have very little op-
position to contend with, only indifference. We
feel hopeful that Arizona will soon wave the
banner of equal rights for all. Mrs. S. C. Hughes
is a grand worker for a Constitutional clause.
Many of the members-elect have written to Wyo-
ming for documents.
	The annual reports are coming in. So far
there are thirty-five State Superintendents of
Franchise, a gain of fifteen over last year. We
have been very successful in organizing.
	Mrs. Belle M. Perry, one of the hardest workers
for suffrage in Michigan, has been obliged to
resign the Superintendent of Franchise position
on account of extra work in other lines and ill
health.  She has, however, had a brave, strong
worker put in her place.
			THERESE A. JENKINS,
		National Supt. of Franchise W. C. T. U.
	Aug. 5, 1891.


[column 1]
VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.

Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTER:
Thinking a few items from this part of the
vineyard would be of interest to some of your
readers, I will give you a sketch of a trip—
made by President Anna L. Ivins and Coun-
selors to the sisters of the organizations in the
Eastern part of St. George Stake of Zion.
	We started from St. George on the 17th of
July and held a meeting with the Relief Society
of Washington ward at 10, a. m. the same day;
and as there was a vacancy in the presidency
of this society, Sister Mc'Crevey was the choice
of the sisters as 2nd Counselor to President
Susan F. Chidester, we had an enjoyable time;
the sisters appeared to be glad of a visit and
were encouraged in the discharge of their duties.
After partaking of lunch we drove to Harris-
burg; this is a branch of the Leeds ward, the
Relief Society is in charge of Sister Laney
who is nearly discouraged, on account of so
many people moving away, but expresses a
willingness to continue.  Our meeting was
held at 3 p. m. and was well attended.  After
partaking of the hospitality of Sister Laney,
we continued our journey to Leeds, where we
spent the night at Bishop Mc'Mullens.  At
10 a. m the next morning we met with the
sisters of Leeds, who are presided over by
Sister Anna Wilkenson, this sister is in poor
health.  Notwithstanding the smallness of the
settlement the sisters turned out well and we
had a good meeting at the close of which we
made our way to Toquerville, where we held
another meeting, Sister Bringhurst who pre-
sides over the Society at this place, was from
home, but we had a good time with the sisters
who are all desirous of doing their duty.
	On the 19th inst., following the windings of
Nephi's Twist, which leads up from the
Leverkin, we found the road in pretty good

[column 2]
condition owing to the late rain; we reached
Virgin City where we held a meeting with the
Relief Society at 2 p. m. the sisters there feel
well and are spirited in the discharge of their
duty.
	At 5, p. m. we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation.  Sister Pratt has been very energetic
with the children and deserves great credit.
On the morning of the 20th we bade our
friends adieu, and continued our journey up
the Rio Virgin River to Duncan's Retreat
which is a branch of the Virgin City ward;
there were but few sisters at this place (yet
the word of the Lord was fulfilled wherein
He says," where a few are met together in my
name I will be there and that to bless.") Sister 
Martindale, who presides there, is a fine
spirited woman.
	After traveling 3[-] miles we came to the
Grafton ward, which is located on the same
River.  At this place Sister Ballard is the
presiding officer of the Relief Society, she has
lately buried her husband; and although
there were but few sisters in attendance we
had a good time; we remained with the good
people of Grafton over night.
	On the morning of the 21st we resumed our
journey; at Rockville we met with the sisters
at 2 p. m. when Sister Lizzie Calkins Smith,
(who has been very faithful in her labors
among her sisters as well as in the Primary
Association) resigned her position as President
of the Relief Society of Rockville, and as she
was going to move away, her resignation was
accepted; and Sister Henrietta Stout was sus-
tained as President with Sister Kesiah Hall as
Ist and Clorinda Langston as 2nd Counselors.
The Primary Association of this ward was
 also reorganized with Sister Dally as Presi-
dent.  Bishop Hirshe met with the sisters and
encouraged them with his counsel.
	On the 22nd we continued our journey taking
the South Fork of the Virgin River until we
reached Shonesburg; it is wonderful how the
people ever found this place, as it has to be
reached by dug-ways for the want of room
along the River bank for a road; and if they
ever had any land to farm worth speaking of,
the floods of the last few years have taken it
away, leaving the people with but poor pros-
pects for the future; they certainly deserve
credit for their staying qualities.
	At 2 p. m. we held a meeting with the good
sisters of Shonesburg and reorganized a Relief
Society with Sister Emily De Mill as President
and Fidelia De Mill as 1st and Jemima Beale
as 2nd Counselors.  This place being at the
end of the road, we were obliged to turn back
down the River to the North Fork, which we
followed up to Spring Dale, which we found to
be a most romantic spot; surrounded as it is
by crags and peaks, and this branch of the
Virgin seems to be less fickle as it allows the
land along its banks to remain in  undisturbed
repose; while the husbandman gathers its
abundant yield of lucerne.  It is astonishing
to think how the people have sustained them
selves on this river; their land in many in-
stances being entirely washed away; leaving
them nothing but their garden or orchard;
some have turned their attention to stock while
others have moved away; many more are fix-
ing to go.  Thus situated many people ad-
vanced in years have to strike out and begin
life afresh; yet withal these discouraging cir-
cumstances we found all happy and full of hope,
because of the revelations of the Holy Spirit
that they are in possession of. 
	We held meeting with the Relief Society
presided over by Sister Gifford and had a nice
time; also talked to the children of the Primary
they regretted that we could not stay longer.
We returned to Rockville where we were en-
tertained by Bishop Hirshe and family, who
did all in their power for our comfort.
	On our return to Toquerville on the 23rd

[column 3]
we met with the Primary Association at 6,p.m.
and had quite a nice meeting.
	On the 24th we took in Leeds, held meeting
with the Primary Association at 10, a. m. here
Sister Angel is earnest in her work with the 
Primary.  We continued on to St. George,
where we found all well; and felt assured our-
selves that the Lord had blest us on our eight
days trip; and thankful that He has counted
us worthy of a place, and standing in His
Church and kingdom.
	With kind regards I remain your sister in
the Gospel.
			ANN C. WOODBURY.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	Minutes of the meeting of W. S. A. S. L.
Co., held Aug. 18th 1891, in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms. Pres. Elizabeth Howard in
the chair. Prayer by Sophia Long. Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.  Roll
called, and three new members voted in. 
Elizabeth Price read an excellent article on
Tariff. Pres. Howard introduced Hannah
Lapish, Pres. of the American Fork W. S. A.
who gave a short sketch of the organization
of that branch of Utah Co., said she hoped to
see the day, in the near future, when she could
cast a vote, for the men of her choice. Mary
A. Freeze read an essay, giving some of the
main features of both the Democratic and
Republican systems of government.
	Elizabeth Mc’Farlane complimented the
ladies, (Price and Freeze) on their excellent
articles, said all the fault she could find with
them was, that they were Republican, said a
Democratic government, was distinguished as
an economical one, and economy could bring
about almost anything, the Tariff protected
people who owned their hundreds of millions,
while the poor were oppressed, all around
them. Hoped that party would soon have a
chance again to prove their abilities in that
line, and had very strong faith that they
would.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp was decidedly Demo-
cratic in her views, said she did not feel
qualified to discuss the political questions of
the day, to any great extent, but felt that she
would like to see the majority benefited
Thought it best to resign her position as one
of the Ex. Com., as she did not have time to
attend to that, with her numerous other
duties. But after some discussion, decided to
continue on, for the present.
	Phebe Y. Beatie thought there was good in 
both forms of government, thought the Tariff,
did not create so much difference between rich
and poor as the ability of different individuals
to get along in the world, as some would get
rich, where others under like conditions, would
remain poor.
	Zina D. H. Young made a brief speech,
giving some of her views of the questions
under discussion. Pres. Howard invited any
of the ladies in the hall who wished to do so,
to speak.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had for many
years advocated the co-education of the sexes.
	Jane Freeze said she was heart and soul
with the ladies, in favor of equal rights
thought we should look at both sides carefully
before deciding our course, but she had a
leaning towards Democracy.
	Dr. Shipp did not wish to be understood, as
wishing to resign her position on Ex. Com.,
from a lack of interest in the cause, as it had
her hearty support, but purely from want of
time to attend to the duties thereof.
	M. Isabella Horne speaking of the Tariff,
thought that the Almighty had so ordained
affairs in this world, that no nation could be
independent of the others.
	Sarah M. Kimball, said we are engaged in


a grand cause, and must think and act for
ourselves, not be something because some one
else was, we want to be Stateswomen, and will
have to be educated up to a higher standard,
before we are ready for many things that are
in the future for us.
	Pres. Howard requested the Ex. Com., to
remain for a few minutes after the close of the
meeting.
	Adjourned until the third Tuesday in Sept.
same time and place.
		CAROLINE C. R. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WEBER CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeting of the
Woman's Suffrage association, held in the fifth
Ward Institute, Ogden, on Tuesday afternoon
September 1st, was one of more than ordinary
interest to the members of that society and to
those who frequent those meetings.
	The first speaker introduced, after the
opening exercises, was Mrs. Emily S. Richards.
She regretted that circumstances had prevented
her from personally meeting with the associa-
tion to report orally regarding her visit to
Washington as the delegate from Weber.
County to the Woman's National convention.
She had been treated with great respect and
courtesy. She had had the honor of speaking
of Ogden and the ladies of Ogden in the meet-
ings of the Executive session of the convention,
where there were delegates present from
all parts of the country and many were the
warm expressions of congratulation and
interest extended by a host of friends. "These
conventions are a source of education to the
ladies, as much valuable information is impart-
ed. Woman's aim is to do good.
	"These ladies who are agitating questions in
which the welfare of women are involved are
not the ones who need help, but they are
working for the good of others. Many women
suffer from the labor they perform, and receive
such poor compensation for their work that it
is distressing to think of. Woman in part is
to blame for these things. She must educate
herself for different pursuits and claim the
rights pretaining to them. She should not
depreciate men as all the rights women will
receive will be given by them.
	"The franchise, if given to woman, will not
straighten all that is crooked in life. Woman's
energies and efforts must be directed to do
good, to educate her sons and daughters and
make that education equal. Politics should
form part of onr education. The ladies have
been honored with places on committees for
the World's Fair, and the ladies of Utah
will be called upon to do their part and let us
do that part well."
	Hon. Franklin S. Richards next delivered
an interesting and eloquent address. He
believed the subject of woman's suffrage an
important one. By this meeting he was
reminded of the first woman's convention he
attended ten years ago in Washington there
were but few people at the meeting, not so
many as there are here this afternoon." Since
then he had attended such gatherings and the
largest halls are now crowded," so you ladies
must not get discouraged, the principles you
advocate are correct and men are proud to-
day to acknowledge the work of such gifted
and able women as Cady Stanton and Susan
B. Anthony." Mr. Richards referred to
woman's condition in the past ages, and
explained clearly that the higher the civili-
zation of any nation, the greater the opportuni-
ities and advantages accorded, to woman.
He then related some of the experiences of
Mrs. Belva Lockwood in her efforts to acquire
an education, how she strove against the
objections raised to her entrance to the college
for the study of law but by perseverance she

[Column 2]

succeeded in two years, but was refused her
diploma simply because she was a woman, and
no precedent could be found for awarding a
diploma to a woman. The courts next
objected to her practicing, but by her
indomitable will she broke down every barries
in her path and has proven herself to be an
intelligent and able lawyer. There are now
about ten ladies practicing law in the United
States."
	Mr. Richards then refered to the change
in public sentiment and feeling prevailing all
over the world to that which existed only a few
years ago, regarding woman, and her influence
for good but in a brief synopsis it is impossible
to do justice to the subject so intelligently
handled by Mr. Richards. A vate of thanke
was extended the distinguished visitors and
after a few terse remarks from the Hon. F. D.
Richards on the subject of woman's privileges,
also from Mrs: J. S. Richards and Mrs.
Stanford in appreciation ot the discourses
delivered, the meeting adjourned for one
month.
		LIZZIE STANFORD, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]

THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	"We each begin our duty in the hospital
as probationers on a month's trial. That
beginning is very new to most of us quite
unlike anything in our previous lives.
Before entering the school, some of us may
have imagined that we had a peculiar fitness
for nursing, even if we did not consider our-
selves born nurses. We may have made up
our minds that we knew how to make a
poultice, and to care for the sick by being
kind to them and ventilating their rooms.
We may possibly have read Miss Nightingale's
"Notes" and so are quite sure that we know
something of nursing but that the hospital
training will give us a sort of standing, and
therefore it will be a desirable thing to have.
As we proceed with our training we discover
that we did not know how to make a poultice,
nor how best to care for a sick person. Some
of us, again, know nothing at all about
nursing, but we are not required to know
anything. A head nurse prefers to train the
raw material, so to speak, in her own way.
What is required is that the probationer be
receptive, that she be intelligent and, above
all, active; and in case she has any knowledge
of nursing, or ideas, or opinions, if she is
discriminating she will keep them to herself.
	We have no dreaming time there is no
place for sentiment, and very little for
sympathy in the ordinary sense of the word.
Were we to sympathize with all the woes that
we see, we should be used up, we should
die.
	A probationer enters the ward for the first
time, and is introduced to her head nurse.
She is then probably set to do some simple
piece of work, such as arranging a closet or
folding clothes and the like. On the next
day she will have her regular duties to learn.
As the afternoon goes on she may find her-
self looking at the clock watching for 5:30 P.
M. to come so that she may go off duty, and
she has probably a bad headache. There is a
hospital atmosphere, produced by the smell
of drugs and other unavoidable oders, pre-
ceptible to a fresh nose there are strange
sights and sounds which, combined, give a
sort of shock for the first day. The new nurse
may not be able to sleep that night, and by
the end of the week she may find herself cry-
ing in bed, with pain in her feet and legs.
These little ailments she keeps to herself.
She is anxious to give satisfaction, and she
has to do unquestioningly all that she is

[Column 2]

directed to do. A head nurse is nearly always
considerate, if necessary helping her through
with her work and encouraging her.
	Time goes on and the probationer becomes
a junior, a senior, and finally a head nurse,
and as we proceed with our training, each day
if we will we can learn something we gain
confidence in ourselves and others gain
confidence in us.
	I suppose we are rather an ordinary class
of young women, we never talk of ideals
we may not even think of them perhaps we
have not any. We are essentially matter of
fact we have to deal with human beings and
with facts. Our two years' service to most of
us is a means to an end, and that a material
one, viz: the earning of money. Some one
told us at our commencement that we had
done well to have chosen a profession which
would not go out of fashion and which could
not be done by machinery. That is a good
start anyway, I am speaking of us as a
whole in the school we are told we cease to be
individuals. That does not mean that we
become automatic, for, I suppose there is no
calling for women which needs more per-
sonality, more individuality.
	Whatever may have been the rush,
monotony, or otherwise of our day (and
there are some days in which everything
seems out of joint), when our time to be re-
lieved comes we go away from the hospital
and if we choose we need not give it auother
thought for the next twelve hours. Out of
the hospital we have not a care, unless it is
for ourselves we know how to appreciate our
leisure we are cheerful and apparently happy,
and sometimes frivolous in fact, we are quite
sisterly, as behooves all good nurses to be.
	Our training is divided into what we call
"services." We have so many months train-
ing in the different services. They are
medical, surgical, maternity, gynecological,
eye, skin and throat, and the care of infants.
About six months of our time is spent on
night duty, spread over the two years in
periods of about six weeks' duration. The
large wards of Charity Hospital have each four
nurses—two juniors, one senior and a head
nurse. In the emergency hospitals a nurse
has usually the charge of a ward by herself
with a supervising nurse over all. There are
also "special cases," the patient having a room
to himself and a day and a night nurse
appointed in charge. We each have our
preferences and dislikes, which are of no
account as far as the distribution of the service
is concerned it makes us something to talk
of, but we are under discipline we go where
we are sent.
	We begin our duties in a large ward of
Charity Hospital. The probationer will have
charge of one side of the ward, with the care
of from ten to fifteen patients and all belong-
ing to them. The head or senior nurse will
go round with her and work in with her for
the first time, She is shown how to make
the beds, to change all soiled linen how to
remove a very sick patient from one bed to
auother how to cover a patient and save her
from fatigue while sitting up to have her
bed made the best way for her to get in and
out of bed to keep an eye on the beds that
the patients are able to make themselves, and
so on throughout the details of the morning's
work. The latter part of the day is taken
up with waiting on the patients and keeping
her side in order all the time. The probation
month is especially a time of learning some-
thing new a good deal has to be got into
that month afterward things come more by
degrees. Should the probationer be accepted
she becomes a junior nurse and has the same
kind of work for about three months. She
then goes on night duty she is "on the land-
ing" as we call it, that is, has charge of the


two or three of the wards opening on to that
landing. The junior nurse is feeling some.
what independent and consequential by this
time. She does not have to act by herself;
there is always an experienced nurse on the
top floor to whom she can refer in case of
emergency or otherwise.
	A nurse may never have been up all night
in her life before, so the first night is rather
exciting and anxious; she is very wide awake
until two or three o'clock in the morning when
the effort to keep awake is really painful. A
night nurse does not sleep, that goes without
saying, and should she dose when all is quiet
she has always one ear open. Imagine a
rather young nurse peering around the large
ward with the aid of an antiquated lantern?
It would throw all shadow and the least
possible ray of light and anywhere but where
it was wanted. Sometimes its miserable little
light would go out and the wick have to be
pricked up and relit, then it would spit and
splutter as though it meant to burn well, but
somehow it never would and the gas burnt
low on the landing. When I think of that
lantern I can go all through my night duty
over again. We have a helper to fetch and
carry things for us, and she can be very useful
in many ways. She may be as "good as a
nurse" or she may have a fancy for gossiping
with her friends during the day and so prefer
to sleep at night, and such a lady is rather a
trial.
	The patients have a way of dying at night
in spite of the very best efforts of the nurse
to keep them alive until morning. Some
helpers "never could go anigh a dead body,"
but they "don't mind fetching the things and
standing outside of the screen." It requires
considerable nerve on the part of the nurse to
"lay out" a patient in the small hours of the
morning; when the wards are silent and
gloomy there is something uncanny about it
there is not much of the "beauty of death"
in these cases, but we get used to it after a
time.
	When we become more experienced we have
our emergency hospital night duty. We
occasionally speak of this in rather strong
language; call it "that awful night duty,"
"that deadful night duty." Here is where
a nurse's mettle comes in. She has long
hours—fourteen, and besides the care of the
patients she has the real "ward work" to get
done before eight o'clock in the morning. The
patients in this hospital are very sick; there
are no "chronics," the nurse has critical cases
to watch, and upon her devotion and judgment
the life of the patient man depend. Here the
doctors are hard worked both day and night
and the nurse, if she is considerate, is very
reluctant to call the doctor, and so often has
an anxious time, Some of the cases that
come in during the night are truly
heart-rending The burnt cases are the worst;
if they are not too badly hurt their sensibility
is acute and they suffer dreadful agony.
At about five o'clock the nurse begins to feel
rather badly. She has to brace herself up
and put on a big spurt to get through the
morning's work, and perhaps at eight o'clock
she will go to bed without her breakfast.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


PERSONALS.

	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper W. P. A. spoke
eloquently 'on the subject of "Kindergartens"
at the Reception given President Jordan in
San Francisco, Aug. 16th.
	It would be better if a certain well known
Journalist of San Francisco had more of the
milk of human kindness in his composition;
we can afford to smile when he attacks his
own sex—but when with a zeal, worthy of a
better cause he persistently directs the shafts


of his caustic wit at a woman who is nobly do-
ing her duty in life's hard battle and who
strives to brighten her toil by sprinkling o'er
her pathway some of the sweet flowers of
poesy, we feel that he prostitutes his genius
by putting it to a debasing use. In all charity
we will presume the gentleman to have been
dyspeptic at the time of his article on the
poetesses of the "Call" and so with the well-
known magnanimity of our sex we extend to
him our heartfelt sympathy.
	Why does a leading San Francisco Daily
devote so much space to Professor Annie
Oppenheim the English Phreno-Physiogno-
mist and her so called "novel profession"
when we have in our midst a lady who has
devoted 35 years of her life to this important
science; who eleven years ago published her
first book on "Physiognomy" and who now has
a magnificent and exhaustive work before the
public, one which has received the highest in-
dorsement, and has been translated into
several languages? We refer to Mrs. Mary
O. Stanton of the Women's Press Association
who has been asked to Lecture before the
medical fraternity of the Toland College, and
we think that when intelligent Americans
have listened to, read and digested the
wonderful discoveries of their own country-
women, it will then be time to run after
foreign professors.
			MARIAN TAYLOR.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Anna M. Rothest, of Brooklyn, has just
been granted a patent for an upper case
treadle attachment for typewriting machines.
	To the query, "What have women to do
with politics?" the best answer generally is,
"Politics have so much to do with women."—
Westminster and Lambeth Gazette.
	The Woman's Union for Good Works,
organized at Haverhill, Mass., some months
age, has nearly 300 members, and has under-
taken, as its first important work, the opening
of a boarding home for young women. The
society comprises women from all the churches
and is strictly undenominational.
	The fine art of life is too little considered.
The end of life is life itself. It is not a book,
or a statue, or a painting, or a newspaper; it
is character. Because one is doing or en-
deavoring to do a great work, does it follow
that he shall permit himself to grow irritable,
exacting, jealous or contemptible in his man-
ner of contemplating life? Is not the life
more than meat?—Lilian Whiting.
	Let us labor strenuously to convince the
rising generation of girls—the girls who are to
win our cause for us, if it is ever to be won—
that woman suffrage means nothing else than
the legal right to express an effectual opinion
on questions of interest to every intelligent
woman. Whether that woman be a physician,
or a leader of society, or a sheltered house-
mother, matters not a whit she need give up
no iota of her habits of life to be a suffragist
and, later a voter.—Dorothy Lundt.
	Miss Marion Foster, the "little invalid
artist" of New York, is at the Ocean House,
Newport. Miss Foster is a niece of Secretary
Foster, of President Harrison's Cabinet, She
is looking up subjects from every State in the
Union for her historical painting for the
World's Fair at Chicago, in 1893. Miss
Foster proposes to put on canvas the most
distinguished statesmen, senators and mem-
bers of Congress, who will be in office in
1892 and 1893. The paintings, after the ex-
hibition of the World's Fair, will be returned to
the capital.


Mrs. Frances Woodring has held the office
of superintendent of a coal mine, at Ashland,
Pennsylvania, since the death of her husband
several years ago. She employs 180 men, and
is liked by them. At an early hour she ap-
pears at the head of the shaft, and she remains
there until the men have all gone to work.
She keeps a close supervision over the prop-
ping of the mine and the air supply, and is
actively benevolent to the wives and families
of the miners. Not a single accident has oc-
curred in the mine since she assumed charge
of it.


THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.

The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D. 
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a.m., 4 to 6 p.m.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making: In all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E.  FIRST SOUTH STREET, 
Opposite City Hall.

R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

