Vol. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1892. No. 20.


CONTENTS.
	Maytime Memories—Aunt Em. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. Jubilee Celebration—Julia Druce.
To An Unknown—Ex. A Letter From Miss
Anthony—Ex. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A.
Reports. W. S. A. Reports.  Obituaries. Notes
and News.
	EDITORIAL:—To the Presidents of the Relief
Society. Thanksgiving and Prayer. Relief
Society Conference. A Talented English Woman.
The Woman Suffrage Cause. Editorial Notes.
Utah Silk for the World's Fair—M. A. Till. Laid 
to Rest—Alma Alden.
	POETRY:—The Awakening—L. M. H. To
Bereaved Mothers—E. D. W. April Herald of
Spring—E. B. W. My First Spring Poem—Lue.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
THE AWAKENING.

All night there were whispering voices,
	Thro' the uplands, meadows and trees;
A quiver of life stirred the larches,
	And run with glad speed o'er the leas.
From far sunny south to the northlands,
	Grand strains of sweet music were borne,
And myriad agents of nature
	Were busy at work ere the dawn.
They parted the chains from the river,
	And like a glad child in its play,
Rejoicing in freedom, its murmur
	Echoed thro' the hills far away.
These messengers countless of number,
	Sprang forth from earth's dark silent womb,
Until the whole world from its slumber,
	Awoke into budding and bloom.
	L. M. H.


TO BEREAVED MOTHERS.

Yea, the heart must be proven with sorrow,
	So let not the thy courage fail,
The clouds will be lighter tomorrow,
	And thinner the mystic vail;
For wisdom and grace will be given
	Sufficient for all thy need;
If thy treasures are stor'd in heaven,
	Then follow where Christ shall lead.
Be sure in the midst of affliction,
	While passing beneath the rod,
He'll strenthen the ties of affection,
	And draw thee nearer to God.
Then bravely submit to his dealing
	How bitter so e'er the pain
For the power of Christ is healing
	And thy trails are not in vain.
E'en if weary and broken-hearted,
	With that which thou deemest loss;
Although from the dearest one parted
	He will help thee bear thy cross;
And if the ordeal seems cruel,
	The Father will make it right,
And the brighter thy precious jewel
	Will shine in the realms of light.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
MAYTIME MEMORIES.

	Memories are pleasant companions, some-
times when we are alone, and we almost live
over again the scenes of the past that come so

[Column 2]
vividly to our recollection; oft in the night
time; music is one of the most powerful agents
in recalling tender thoughts of the "days that
are gone," and we are ready to exclaim from
out the fulness of our souls where are the
loved ones that were with us then? and a thrill
of sweetness almost painful tells us it is only
a memory, though we could almost believe we
were back again among the very pastimes and
enjoyments of the days of youth. Among the
delightful associations of childhood, especially
of those who have lived much in the country,
one ever bright spot in memory's golden chain
is the May-day or May time; the sweet May
time when fields and woods are fragrant with
the early bloom of flower and bud and vine,
and when the awakening of Spring has come 
in its freshness and reality.  The bird songs
are inspiring, the woods resound with gladness
at the wild bird's songs.
	"Among the varied songs of May
		That gladden field or grove,
	I deem blithe bird, thy woodland lay
		All other songs above.
	"The skylark cheers the grassy plain
		The thrush may whistle strong
	From budding elms a wilder straim
		Is thine a dearer song.
	"Sure am I that our Shakespeare's might
		Thrilled at thy woodnotes wild
	And doubtless Milton's darkened sight
		Thy melody beguiled."
The squirrels come from their winter retreat
and run and frisk about in the bright sun-
shine as gaily as though they knew that all
nature was holding a general jubilee of praise
and thanksgiving. The whole world of living
creatures rejoices in the light and warmth and
glow of a May day morning and it is meet that
there should be rejoicing for the return of 
beauty, that shines upon the hilltops gilding
the loftiest peaks and in the lovely vales, there
the violet and lily of the valley hide their
modest heads, yet are they searched out be-
cause of the sweet perfume that betrays their hid-
ing place and makes them more sought for than
the grandest flower of the plain, whose bright
colors flaunt in the sunshine. So is modesty
and gentleness always unobtrusive, lowly and
meek yet because of these precious qualities
when found these attributes commend them-
selves and are held nearer and dearer to every
heart than the haughty and arrogant for they
are often worthless, except in outward appear-
ance. So we can learn useful lessons in life
from the flowers, and from the birds, and from
everything in nature.
	It is a well known fact that the nightingale,
the sweetest songster of the forest, is the
plainest in appearance of all the warblers of 
the woodland. Indeed this bird one would
pass by unnoticed can awaken the soul that
has least emotion or music in its composition.
	Tennyson says in "Enoch Arden,"
		"Where a passion yet unborn, perhaps,
		Lay hidden, as the music of the morn
		Sleeps in the plain eggs of the Nightingale."
	Juliet pleading with her love--
		"It was Nigtingale and not the lark
		That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear.
		Nightly she sings on yon pomegrante tree,
		Believe me love it was the Nightingale."
	Well do I remember the beautiful Maytime
in the long ago, and how ardently as a child

[Column 3]
I looked forward for the May flowers to blos-
som in the hills and pastures, and O how fair
and radiant all the world seemed in that fairy
vision of childhood.  How good it is to have
this sweet, glad spot in our lives, and to enjoy
 the balmy fragrance of the buds and blossoms
and drink in the exhilarating inspiration that 
comes with the freshening breeze fo the Spring
morning, as one rambles forth to fields and
pastures, woodland and wold and as it were
converses with the little winsome maiden we
call sweet May.
	How the woods and hills resound with the
merry laughter and fresh young voices of the 
May parties, young men and maidens whose
hearts are being touched by "the tender pas-
sion," that comes naturally often to the most
unimpressionable boys just on the verge of man-
hood.  How sweet is love's young dream even 
in memory, no wonder the poet said,
	" 'Twere better to have loved and lost
	Than never to have loved at all.
	And yet it is a question whether one loses
all, certainly not the memory of true love, that
remains through all the changing, shifting
scenes of this dreary, weary world of bustle
and of work.
	Love true and pure always makes one better
by developing the best and purest qualities
and not only better but more beautiful, and 
there is something enchanting in it that never
quite dies out aside from the memory itself;
but I was thinking of Maytime and not of love,
why should one's thoughts wander away upon
other themes, and yet these two Love and May 
time are closely associated in memory.  It
may be in part however owing to my knowing
that most of the girls with whom I went May-
ing fell in love, so it appeared, even when
children. Gay times those were to be sure,
but  my special delight in the Spring time was
to wander off alone, and of all the haunts of
my early years, the hemlock grove was perhaps
the dearest spot of all and where I let my
fancies run wild most uncontrollably.  O
those wonderful hemlock trees how gracefully
they bowed and nodded, and fanned me, how
companionable they were; I seemed to imbibe
inspiration from association with their signing
and tell tale music, even when the birds that
swung to and fro on their daintiest boughs
were silent or had flown away.  The tiny
flowers that hid themselves away under the 
dried leaves and moss and the edges of the 
rocks, were my childish delight, and the wild
flowers were and are my special favorites; no
child ever could have enjoyed more the
secluded haunts of the woods than I did, un-
less their capacity for appreciation was greater.
New England abounds in these resorts, the
meadows are gay with buttercups and cowslips,
and the fields with lilies and daisies and a 
hundred other lovely blossoms, and the groves
and woods, my heart swells with tenderness 
for them; and the memory of those sweet
Spring-times will remain with me while I
live.
	We have an abundance of wild flowers here
in this mountain region, and our children
gather them with the same ecstacy and de-
light that we roamed the New England hills
and woods in the long ago.
	Let the little ones enjoy these beautiful,
simple pleasures, for the memory will be
pleasant throughout their lives, celebrate with 
gladness and thanksgiving the renewal of the


season of beauty.  All these things speak to
the soul of that God who watches over the
whole earth, who never fails to bring the re-
turn of Spring, with the flowers and birds, and
every living thing rejoices in the good gifts
He sends, so bountifully; the fresh green grass,
the dear old-fashioned lilacs, the crocuses and
hyacinths and all the early tender buds, how
tenderly and gently these things remind us of
the watch care of our Father, who never for-
gets to send his blessings in due season upon
the just and the unjust, and here is anotner
beautiful lesson for us the lesson of love to
all mankind; charity that heavenly attribute
that uplifts the human soul; and will at
length bring us into nearer and closer asso-
ciation with the divine.  And so while we re-
joice in the Maytime let us also reflect upou
the lessons to be learned, and seek the happi-
ness of others, forgetting self and especially
remember the children and the lesson the
Savior taught—“Except ye become as little
children”&c.
	 AUNT EM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XII.
	Things took their natural course after the
funeral; the guests departed, reluctantly per-
haps, but as no encouragement was offered
them to prolong their visit, it was the only
alternative. The old house-keeper had made
them quite uncomfortable, and "spoken her
mind,” as she called it on several occasions,
and Miss Conway felt she had no right to ex-
tend hospitality beyond what seemed a proper
limit, and so the house was cleared at last of
all except the cousins and servants.
	The spring was opening and in the beauti-
ful country places in England the rural scen-
ery is intensely charming; the birds were tril-
ling their highest, sweetest notes in the grand
old trees, and singing on the slenderest boughs,
of the graceful tall bushes, and nature seemed
in its most smiling mood. The grounds about
the house were sort of uncultivated and neglect-
ed, but an admirer of wild and picturesque
landscapes, might revel fancy-free in the de-
lightful solitude offered by the groves and 
shady lanes. Lady Anna was glad to wander
about these secluded haunts and indulge in
expectant reveries of her absent lover, whom
she was constantly thinking would suddenly
surprise her, when rambling alone, as he had
done in the days of their first acquaintance.
	Jane was inclined to be seriously meditative;
she could not help wondering what would hap-
pen next—so many strange events had trans-
pired, and more seemed likely to be in the near
future; for the young man mentioned in the
will was sure to be forthcoming, as the baronet
had provided that he should live in England
and take his name. She could scarcely credit
his being her uncle’s own son, and would fain
believe it was the orphan son of some dear
friend that he felt under obligations to serve.
Anna had not expressed herself fully upon the
matter, though her cousin had several times
tried to learn how she felt about the name.
	One beautiful morning in April the Dr.
overtook Miss Conway as she was wandering
leisurely along one of the many fragrant lanes
near the grounds, and in a very stormy fashion
urged her to accept him as an acknowledged
suitor, even if she had not yet made up her
mind to marry him. The girl was greatly in ,
need of sympathy and of advice; she was al-
most as lonely with her cousin as if she had
been quite left to herself, for Anna was so ab-
sorbed in her love affairs that she could think
of little else; and therefore Jane was more eas-
ily persuaded to allow Dr. Bland to come reg-
ularly to the house. It will be a change at
least from the sameness of our present life,

[Column 2]
thought the young woman, and so it proved;
the visits were pleasant interchanges of ideas
and sentiments, and the time passed swiftly
by, and they grew into favor with each other.
The lawyer came with news from the young
stranger, and arranged with the young ladies
about suitable apartments being made ready
for him; and although it was such a decided
change to think of having a man in the house, 
yet it was inevitable, and they were rather glad
than otherwise. All sorts of conjectures were
flying about, as to who and what he was and
‘‘Dame Rumor’’ was busy, but of this the
young ladies knew very little as they took no
part in society of the country round about
except those living on their own estate, who
were only poor working people, and though
they chatted among themselves of the doings
up at the castle and did not spare the charac-
ter of the late master, yet the young ladies
were not aware of how the baronet was being
abused by those to whom they dispensed their
bounties, and who thrived off the estate. Some-
times the housekeeper would pour out a volley
of gossip to lady Anna’s maid and occasionally,
when waiting upon her young mistress, she
would make bold to repeat an item or two, and
though usually Lady Anna manifested the
utmost indifference, it happened once or twice
that she dropped a word which gave “Timmins”
courage to go on. ‘‘It was from old Ma’am
Farrow we got it,” she explained one night
when brushing her lady’s hair before retiring;
she pretends to know all about the doings
here in days gone by, and says as how there
used to be regular rioting here in the hunting
time, and men, (gentlemen my lady,) had balls
and parties when you was a child, and there
was a sight o’ feasting and that, and carriages
comin’ from a distance and nobody knows who
was in them.” This set the young lady to think-
ing and she determined to tell her cousin Jane,
for though she made no sort of reply to the
maid, except to tell her not “to heed gossip,
or repeat scandal,” yet it had made her feel
very unpleasant, and she lost no time in repeat-
ing all she had gathered to Jane, who had also
seen enough to convince her that the peasantry
were anything but respectful of her uncle’s
memory. She dreaded the arrival of the young
stranger just when these idle stories were float-
ing about in the air as it were, but it was not
possible to avert nor even to postpone his com-
ing, if she wanted to, and she was not sure
things would be better even if she could suc-
ceed in doing so.
	Maitland Walton had written several times
to his betrothed, or so she considered herself—
but she had not seen him, and her heart was
sad and aching for his coming, but affairs were
culminating rapidly towards a climax, not-
withstanding the monotony at the old mansion.
	Dr. Bland was winning his way pretty suc-
cessfully in the affections of Miss Conway; she
was not one likely to fall in love at first sight,
but time and the certainty of uprightness and
sterling integrity were traits she admired in
men, and one she could look up to as her su- 
perior was what she needed. Strength of char-
acter she possessed herself in a large degree,
and a conscientiousness that precluded any pos-
sibility of her bestowing her friendship even,
upon an unworthy man; but she could find-no
fault with Dr. Bland; the more intimately she
knew him the nobler he appeared, and he was
now tolerably sure of securing her hand in
marriage and with it her true heart. Jane
had weighed the matter carefully and had de-
cided that it would be the best for her cousin
to have such protection as Dr. Bland, a mar-
ried man could give; for with her impulsive
temperament there would be more or less dan-
ger, and a young man in the house who might
consider himself at least equal in au-
thority if not even more, would be a constant
terror to such a sensitive nature as Anna’s. 

[Column 3]
	Then there was always the fear of interference
from Maitland Walton, and sometimes in view
of these things Jane wondered if she were
really growing fond of the Dr. or was it only
to better her present condition and relieve
her of the embarrassment that threatened the
future welfare of the household; and indeed it
was not strange that she queried thus. But
circumstances decided speedily what might
have taken a much longer time to settle. Anna
had at last seen her lover and he had confided
to her the cause of his absenting himself from
the castle. Reports had reached his mother
that the baronet had a son abroad, who was
coming into possession, that there had been a
secret marriage and afterwards a separation,
and much more;indiscreetly in her vexation she
had told all this to Maitland, and vowed that
he should never marry the daughter of such an
unprincipled villain. She regretted afterwards,
but her pride was wounded, and she gave vent
to a feeling of jealousy, unwarrantable in a
woman of her years and experience. Henry
Walton had brought the news from London
and had taunted his wife with it, half in jest,
and half seriously, possibly to see if she had
any lingering affection left for his rival; and
the man who had as he believed thrown his
life away because of his early disappointment.
In her anger she had forbidden her son any
further association with the girl he so ardent-
ly loved placing another barrier in the way of
his happiness; she would thus have ruined two
more lives had the fates not taken their destiny
in hand and summarily settled the matter.
	Anna flew to her cousin and told her all she
had heard; Lady Walton had watched Mait-
land but he had eluded her vigilance, disobey-
ed Her positive injunctions and had declared
that nothing should prevent the union when
he became master of his own inheritance; and
she had gladly consented for she could not live
without him, and why need they submit to
such tyranny. Jane reasoned and expostu-
lated and entreated her to listen, give her ex-
amples of such marriages, and the unhappiness
caused by disobedience to parental rule, but
the girl was inexorable, and the result was a
serious illness. Dr. Bland was summoned and
in his position as guardian and physician, Jane
felt he must know all, and it was a relief to
tell it to one who could not only sympathize
but had the wisdom to render aid in such ex-
tremity. He went to Lady Walton and told
her, for he seemed to comprehend the matter
after Jane had related the circumstance of Lady
Walton’s secret night visit, and her own con-
versation with her uncle subsequently he felt
he could consistently express his view of the
situation; he found her ladyship much agitated
for Maitland had informed his mother of his
visit to Anna and his intentions to keep his
promise of marriage to the girl. Lady Wal-
ton knew Dr. Bland’s reputation as a surgeon
and medical adviser and as Doctors are gener-
ally admitted to confidence, he had felt no re-
luctance in paying this visit; and was admitted
without delay upon sending a message to say
he had come as a physician on an important
errand. He was a man to whom any woman
might have entrusted her confidence without
fear of betrayal—this the lady saw at a glance,
he lost no time in telling her she was in the
wrong. Without in the least betraying his
knowledge of her own secret, he made her con-
scious of wrong and anxious to repair the
mischief she had done. Her love for Maitland
was the strongest sentiment she was capable of
and his future was her ambition. Dr. Bland
told her what a lovely disposition Lady Anna
possessed and how delicate her temperament—
that she needed love it was her only hope, per-
haps said he “from a false education by her
French governesses to whom she has been left
wholly in the past until her cousin took up her
abode there.'


“Her father lived much abroad I have been
told,” said her Ladyships though inadvert-,
ently? “Yes, and no,” replied the Dr. “he was
sometimes absent for months but never away
for any great length of time.” “One likes to
know what sort of family one is becoming
connected to, you must be aware Dr. Bland, I
shall have to meet all this in society,you snow
besides his father has not yet been apprised of
any serious relations between the young peo-
ple: he consented to let Maitland go to Italy,
last winter, after much entreaty on my part,
solely to satisfy me concerning his health.”
“Would you like me to speak to your husband
and inform him what has already taken place,
and how seriously the matter appears to me, or
will you undertake the mission?” “I scarcely
know what to do—his father will be offended,
he will say it has all come from my blind
idolatry, indulging the boy in every sort of
nonsense. I know how it will be I shall get
all the blame.”—“And can you not endure his
reproaches for the sake of making happy two
young innocent, beings like Miss Hilliard and
your own and only son?”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


APRIL HERALD OF SPRING.

Now April with its fresh perfume 
	Of fragrant air and gentle showers,
Scatters away the frost and gloom 
	That lingers from the winter hours.
And by the brook, or "moss-grown spring,”
	Fond friends, or lovers, wander near. 
Mellow and low the thrushes sing,
	To usher in the new-born year 
Just opening to virgin life.
	Unconscious of the charms concealed—
The radiant bloom of Summer rife.
	When all earth’s beauty is revealed.
Oh! springtime of the heart’s true love,
	Promise of joy and pleasure sweet,
Well may the cooing of the dove
	Such tender wooing softly greet.
‘Tis fitting time, the early Spring,
	Life's richest treasure to bestow,
While groves and woods with music ring,
	And echoes answer soft and low.
	E. B. W.


MY FIRST SPRING POEM.

I ne’er can tell with what delight,
Tucked up in bed by candle light,
1 read it o'er and o’er at night,
	My very first spring poem. 
Methonght no mortal could refuse,—
That out of hundreds they would choose,
So highly did I prize the muse,
	That wrought my first spring poem.
April Day, on my way to school
Heedless of who might play the "fool,"
Engrossed in thought, not on the rule,
	’Twas sooth to say, my poem.
The joy for me it held in store,
When teachers, schoolmates reading o’er,
Smiling would say, “all must adore,
	That very sweet spring poem.’’
The foreman seated in his chair,
Gave a little start and bigger stare,
Then struck a wondrous tragic air,
	As I produced the poem.
Bowed low, with just the faintest smile,
And said, we've quite a list on file
But if we find yours just in style, 
We'll give it place some season.
This is appropriate for May,
April will do,—please don't delay,
I ventured then and there to say,—
	"I'm sure you'll like my poem."
"No doubt, (he said with elfish grin)
We'll find your poem just the thing,
Yet we have so many in
	I'm sure you'll not mind waiting."
Quite haughtily I turned Away,
Yet on the threshold paused to say,

[Column 2]
"If you don’t publish mine in May,
	it will be too provoking!”
Half angrily welled up the tears,  
"Ah, do not doubt, dispel your fears,
There lies before you scores of years,
	Take courage little maiden!’’
Years rolled around, one whole decade
Merging the dimpled little maid
into a charming matron staid,
	With children round her growing.
Famous histories unbidden,
Far from mortal sight lay hidden,
'Neath the waves of dark oblivion,
	Sharing fate with this spring poem.
Time’s busy wheel its changes wrought,
Kingdoms arose and fell to naught,
Fashions and customs, turning thought
	Into new channels ever.
This morn, my great grandson exclaimed
"Why that was grandma’s maiden name! —
If is indeed, the very same.
	I do believe she wrote it!"
My pulses gave a sudden beat,
I started from my cushioned seat
And stood upright upon my feet,
	Back in life’s early gloaming.
By chance, as subsequently told,
Searching many volumes musty, old,
A parcel dropped, yellow as gold,
	Upon the floor before him.
Thinking it writing of a sage.
He turned to scan the title page,
And soon in reading was engaged,—
	That long neglected poem.
Then by the Prophet’s beard he swore, 
More fierce than he had done before,
“This shall be over-looked no more,
	I’ve found it just in season.”
Just a turn in the wheel of fate.
O’er the world it flies in state.
Charming and fresh, strange to relate,
As nature's springs returning.
Thro’ agencies unknown before,
’Twas sent throughout the wide world o'er
Echoed in song from shore to shore,
	This treasure of a poem.
Eighteen hundred and twenty-nine,
Date quite correct 'twas surely mine.
What bliss in my old age to find,
	Published; my first spring poem.
No language ever can convey
The joy I feel at this late day,
To read when I am old and gray,
	My very first spring poem.
Grieve not, young aspirants for fame,
Work, wait, not seeking praise or blame,
Leave all, even your much—loved name,
	To time that will restore it.
	LUE.


JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

TWELTH WARD S. L. CITY. 
Dear Sister E. B. Wells:
	The Twelth Ward Relief Society held their
Jubilee entertainment on Thursday evening
March 17th, in the 12th Ward Chapel, which
was beautifully decorated for the occasion, and
some lovely flowers growing in pots were placed
upon the stand, and an elegant bouquet, pre-
sented by Sister J. R. Midgley upon the table
in front of the stand. 
	Mrs. Julia Druce, presiding,called the Assem-
bly to order, and announced singing by the
choir; the song "America” was finely rendered.
Br. J. C. Kingsbury then made the opening
prayer, the choir singing “Our God, we give
praise to thee.” Sister Druce called upon
Sister Annie K. Hardy, to announce the pro-
gramme. Address by Br. J. C. Kingsbury, on
Relief Society work in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Vocal duet, “The Birds of
Spring” by Misses Mamie and Clara Wardrobe.
Recitation,“Was Marrage a Failure,” by Mrs.
Sarah Stewart. Sister A. K. Hardy read the
historical record of the 12th Ward in a clear
sweet voice. Song,“Speak a Kind Word to the


Loved Ones At Home," Miss Edith Midgley.
Fantasia on the theme, "Gotterhatte Frans
Kaiser" by Prof. W. Clive, accompanied on the
organ by Miss Belle Morris. Encore, "Then
You'll Remember Me." An Address the Relief
Society Organization of the 12th Ward in 1868,
by Bro. E. Snelgrove. A song, "The Boys Of
The Old Brigade" by Br. John Robinson.
Encore "Rocked In The Cradle Of The Deep"
A Vocal Quartette, "Fairy Moon-light", encore,
Juanita by the Symphony Club. Remarks
by Elder George Goddard, and a song entitled
"Hard Times Come Again No More". An
Essay on Relief Society work by Sister Nellie
Little. A song, "The Song That Reached My
Heart Was Home Sweet Home," by Miss
Blanche Kenner. An excellent repast was
provided by the sisters of the Ward, and served
by our young ladies of the Mutual Improve-
ment Society. Benediction by Counselor John
Druce.
	All went away feeling well and happy.
On the next day, March 18th, our Juvenile,
sisters and brothers, numbering about three
hundred, were treated to a Jubilee Party, by
the sisters of the Relief Society of the 12th
Ward. All enjoyed themselves in the dance un-
til 7, p.m; then they were served with dainty
and delicious refreshments, and all seemed glad
to attend a Jubilee Entertainment.
		JULIA DRUCE, President.


TO AN UNKNOWN.
	You are melancholy; and you are brooding
over your own distemper, and so aggravating
it. Neither prayer or meditation will cure it.
The difficulty is that you are self-centered.
	Every self-centered person must be either
self-conceited or melancholy. Every man is
but a sorry object for his own contemplation.
You are constructing your life on the
Ptolemaic theory; you are making everything
revolve about yourself. The glow-worm and
the fire-fly live in the light they produce
themselves, and they are poor creatures.
Phosphorescence never lasts long.
	Walk in the light of God—that is, in the
light that comes from God. The remedy for
melancholy is to become God-centered. You
are unhappy! What of it? There is only
one question: are you useful? No? Then
become useful. Set yourself, not to being
happy, but to doing other people good. For-
get yourself; think of others. “Happiness is
got by being forgot.” Still do not forget
happiness in order to get it. Simply forget it.
Live for others, not for yourself. It is of
small consequence whether you are happy or
not. It is of much consequence whether you
are of service in the world. Love is the cure
for melancholy.
	“Look up, not down; out, not in; forward,
not backward; and lend a hand.”
								Ex.


A LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.

	To My Suffrage Nieces:—Now that you
have voted me your president, and every one
will be writing me your work, I have just one
earnest request to make of one and all, and
that is that you do not write with any of the
pale, fluid ink, but with a jet black ink, to
start with then you’ll be sure it is black. I
use Stafford’s, but if any of you can tell me
of a blacker ink as it flows from the pen, I
shall be glad to use it. The pale fluids of
to-day, whether for hand or type written
letters, are simply atrocious. And I protest
against our suffrage girls using them for
their own eyes’ sake as well as for those of
their older sister and co-worker.—Susan B.
Anthony.  	Ex.


156											WOMAN'S EXPONENT
====================================————————————————————————————————
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
————————————————————
			﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT

    EMMELINE B. WELLS;	-	Editor.
————————————————————
	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
    Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office,. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
————————————————————
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
====================================
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 1, 1892.


TO THE PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF
			   SOCIETY.
				——
	As the WOMAN'S EXPONENT is the only paper
through which the Relief Society can co-operate
in its work and labors of love,we earnestly desire
that it should be a continued success.
	The Presidents of each Relief Society are re-
quested to see to the appointing of agents who
are suitable to canvass in each ward, so that a
united effort shall be made and thereby all be
benefitted and this home publication sustained.
	Our Jubilee has proven how necessary it is for
us to have a correct record of our work for 
reference, and that there may be perfect harmony
of action and of purpose throughout our entire
organization.
	Hoping that the sisters will be interested and
make this extra exertion to secure an increased
circulation in time for the new volume, that 
through the columns of the EXPONENT our testi- 
mony may go to all the world,
	We remain, Your Sisters in the Gospel,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			Presidency of the Relief Society.


THANKSGIVING AND PRAYER.

   President Woodruff and the First Presidency of
the Church have called upon the people to fast
and pray and give thanks, and have set apart a
day for that purpose, the Sabbath day, the first of
May and this day is to be generally observed
throughout all the Stakes of Zion, in the several
wards according to the direction of the presiding
priesthood. That the devotion and prayers of an
entire people offered up in unison and with fast-
ing will be pleasing to our Father in heaven there
can be no doubt. All who have the spirit of the
Gospel and of the times will gladly respond to
this call, and the congregations of the Saints as-
sembled for such a purpose will realize the need
of drawing near to God and putting away worldi_
ness, seek forgiveness and mercy, and renew
their covenants and resolutions to serve Him
more completely.
   Thousands of the Latter-day Saints will hail
this day as a happy omen for the prosperity of
Zion, the Lord has said He will be inquired of,
and He delights in the services of His Saints
and their gratitude and thanksgiving must be an
acceptable oblation at the throne of grace.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The annual Conference of the Relief Society
was held April 5, 1892, in the Assembly Hall in
this city, at 7 p. m. President Zina D. H. Young

[Column 2]
presiding; her Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith were present, also Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball, Treasurer M. Isabella Horne,
Cor. Sec'y. E. B. Wells and Ass't. Sec. Romania
B. Pratt were on the stand. The Presidents of
the Relief Society of the several Stakes of Zion
were seated in the upper stand; the house was
well filled with ladies, only a few gentlemen be-
ing present.
   Meeting opened with singing,"O, say what is
truth &c." Prayer was offered by President B.
W. Smith, singing, "Do what is right &c."
   Pres. Z. D. H. Young made a very telling
speech that stirred the hearts of the audience;
she referred in glowing terms to the General Con-
ference of the Church and the grand occasion to
be celebrated on the following day, the laying of
the capstone of the magnificent Temple in this
City; thought we had great reason to rejoice in
the blessings vouchsafed to us; especially in the
gems of truth dispensed unto us, in the teachings
of the servants of God throughout the Confer-
ence. Pres. Young thanked the sisters of the
various stakes and branches for their response to
the Jubilee celebration, in carrying out her wishes
and instruction, and expressed herself eloquently
in regard to the greatness of the occasion, its be-
ing celebrated on the two continents, and on the
Islands of the sea, extending all around the
world as it were; urged the sisters to prepare
themselves to do the work well, to strive for more
intelligence, and to set their mark high and en-
deavor to live up to this high standard; and not
only for themselves but the young women and
children of tender years, "O, how my heart is
drawn out to them."
   Paes. Young then expressed herself in refer-
ence to the Society building halls and places of
worship of their own in all the localities where
there were organizations as soon as possible;
thought perhaps it might sometimes be practicable
to buy places cheap of those who were moving
away, or changing their property, and have this
property and such buildings owned by the Relief
Society and be controlled by them so that they
might have a place to meet and so that the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary might meet there too. Pres.
Young said she did not wish to find fault with
anything that had been done, but felt we must
own some property and buildings of our own and
teach our young people to be self-sustaining.
   Pres. Young requested Sister E. B. Wells to
read some remarks of the Prophet Joseph Smith's
to the Relief Society in Nauvoo upon tnis sub-
ject; Sister Wells read:
   "Pres. Joseph Smith donated a City lot to the
Society for the purpose of making homes for the
homeless, and also to furnish work to those who
were out of employment, which he proposed deed-
ing to the Treasurer and her successors in office,
for the use of the Society. He also donated the
frame of a house, and made arrangements for it
to be moved on the aforesaid lot, for a commence-
ment of the establishment."
   "But this benevolent and judicious project with
many others which were designed for the ameliora-
tion of the condition of suffering humanity, was
blasted in the bud by the blighting hand of re-
ligious persecution, and through which the once
beautiful City of Nauvoo became a desolation,
and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico."
   Pres. Young then spoke strongly upon union
and the power it would give us, also upon the
Word of Wisdom and the blessings that would
follow those who would keep that commandment, 
and of many of the teachings of the Prophet
Joseph; said it was his advice that every virtuous
woman in the Church should join the Relief
Society, also referred to sayings of President
Brigham Young upon this subject.
   Sister Sarah M. Kimball said she had been
deeply impressed with the exercises of the Con-
ference, and thought there were some lessons for

[Column 3]
women;" one of the speakers had said he honored
the First Presidency of the Church, the Twelve
Apostles, the priesthood of God, and we my
sisters she said must h onor woman,—and by the 
way,I take this opportunity of inviting you to write
and preserve a memorial of this Relief Society, of
the work which has been done, and of those who
live now, for this generation is fast passing away,
and in this way we shall have a record of our 
work; there will be a committee to do this and 
no one person will decide on this work," made
other suggestions upon this subject.
   Pres. Jane S. Richards, felt like a little child,
and thought we all felt like little children looking
up to our Father and asking Him for the blessing
that we want. The Lord is just as willing to
bless us his daughters as his sons; how we feel
when we are about our work, the Holy Spirit
resting upon us, if we feel our labors are hard or
our burdens heavy, and we have the good spirit
with us it makes them easy and light. We should
remember those that have started this work, and
they are fast passing away, Sister Presendia who
has just left us, and President Young and Sister
Eliza and others, I often feel that Sister Eliza
and Pres. Young are with us, and we could feel
their presence near, and if we could have our eyes
touched to see them, we should know—and the 
angels are near us, and yet we cannot see with
our natural eyes.
   This work of compiling the Jubilee should be
a good labor and an easy one and not hard to ac-
complish with the means there is to do it and the
EXPONENT we want to sustain our own paper, it
is all we have except the YoungWoman'sJournal;
the price of subscription is so little now it is al-
most given away, and we should all of us take it
have it in our homes and read it; the sisters who
stay at home, who cannot get to the meetings of
the Society, get them to take it, it will do them
good; all have not the opportunity to get to the
meetings, there are many hindrances in a family,
let us be very forgiving, if we are forgiving He
has promised us forgiveness; visit the sisters who
stay at home, it will do them good, I didn't used
to go much, I stayed at home my circumstances
required it, there are those not able to get out,
kind acts and kind things bring their reward.
   "We have been having a good time in this Con-
ference, a time of union, the greatest Conference
we ever had,—another capstone is to be laid to-
morrow; the Prince and power of the air has
been determined to give us storms and mud, but
we shall overcome nevertheless. The mothers
need blessing, when the brother spoke of sustain-
ing the priesthood I thought why didn't he go a
little further and bless the mothers in Israel and
the Relief Society which is a very important or-
ganization according to the words of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith, which he gave them by honoring
women in the commencement of the work, they
need prayers, need faith, need wisdom in the 
multiplicity of their cares and labors.
   "Buildings that has been alluded to by Sister
Young is important to the Relief Society, Joseph
the Prophet set the example, Pres. B. Young
counseled us to build houses and granaries, places
of our own to hold meetings in; there are not
many branches but can accomplish this if they
undertake it and persevere; how much better you
will feel when you have your own places of wor-
ship and to meet in; the habit of drinking that is 
growing in our midst and tempting the young is
something deplorable, there is a great deal in the 
word of wisdom besides drinking tea, so many
things that need attention; then we have home
industries that lack for patronage we should make
an exertion to sustain these things, and don't
neglect your prayers,commit all to the care of the
Almighty, live in peace with all people, don't let
the sun go down on your wrath, do not commit
sin when we are angry, we are living for the
kingdom of heaven, may we be true and faithful.


[Column 1]
I rejoice in the Lord .’’Sister Richards made some
remarks upon the rights and privileges of the
sisters and their duty in regard to administering
to the sick and rebuking disease and prayed the 
peace and blessing of God to rest upon the con-
gregation.
	Pres. M. I. Horne rejoiced to see so many
noble women that were interested in the work of
the Relief Society, felt to bless them, those that
had come from a distance hoped they would take
home the spirit of the Conference and diffuse it
among those with whom they were associated,
that the good seed might be sown among the 
sisters who were not able to attend the Confer-
ence; she felt interested in the subject of home-
industries, thought we should exert ourselves to
be more self-sustaining; that we were living in an
important day, when the prophecies of the 
Scriptures and of Joseph were being fulfilled and 
we needed great wisdom; the teachers have a re-
sponsible position, and needed to be prayerful
and have the spirit of the Lord; spoke eloquently
and briefly upon many subjects; the increase of 
wickedness in our midst, the need to watch over
our children and young people, the governing
power and restraining influences, and gave much
good advice to the sisters and the young people.
	Pres. B. W. Smith, spoke of her desire that the
young women should come forward and prepare
themselves to take the places of the older sisters
when they pass away. Said there are 23 Stakes 
that have not paid into the Deseret Hospital fund
we should take this into consideration and not
fail in this; it is a duty we have to perform; to
have a place for the sick and afflicted; we must 
do our part and keep it up; and the EXPONENT
we must have by us; it is a necessity to the Relief
Society; there are many good papers, but the 
EXPONENT is my choice; it contains our record
and we’ll be proud of it some day. I feel as 
Sister Zina said, we ought to have two or three
days for our meetings; we are a host to do good,
I am proud of my sisters and of their  labors. I 
want to do all the good I can and as little harm,
I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
Jubilee celebration its greatness, the immense
country over which it extended, the importance
of the organization, the great results already at-
tained and the promises for the future, the ad-
vancement made by women in all lands, the
prejudices being removed, and the grand oppor-
tunities for improvement, and gave some explana-
tions in reference to the history to be compiled,
and also concerning the storing of grain by wo-
men against a day of need.
	Pres. Young spoke in reference to the history
to be prepared of the Relief Society and nomi-
nated the following Committee whose names were 
submitted and voted upon by the assembly, Sarah
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells, Lula Greene Richards,
Romania B. Pratt, Annie Wells Cannon, Augusta
J. Crocheron.
	Sister Zina said the officers and teachers should
be women of God, we expect our sisters to be
brave in the future as they have been in the past,
humble obedience to the principles of the Gospel
makes us better wives and better mothers and 
better prepared to enter into the presence of God;
as soon as we boast we separate the link that
binds us; like breaking the kite string, there is 
nothing to guide it and it falls or floats away, may
we be preserved and our children with all that
the Lord has given us we have everything to
make us happy.
	Assistant Secretary R. B. Pratt read the totals
of the Relief Society report for the last six months
after which there were a few words of counsel
and comfort from Sister Jane S. Richards, and S.
M. Kimball presented the names of the officers of
the Central Board to be voted upon.
	Zina D. H. Young, President, Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors, Sarah M

[Column 2]
Kimball, Secretary, Romania B. Pratt, Assistant
Secretary, M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer, and 
Emmeline B. Wells, Cor. Sec’y.
	Pres. Young made a few closing remarks,
speaking in the kindliest manner to the sisters
encouraging them to persevere in their labors of
love and to exercise charity and cultivate the
spirit of humility and blest them with a mother’s
blessing, after which Conference was adjourned
until next October, singing Doxology and bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister R. B. Pratt.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

 A TALENTED ENGLISH WOMAN.

	The visit of Miss Florence Balgarnie to our
City was quite a pleasant event, yet the ladies
who met her in Washington last year, and also
those who have heard her praises sounded, and
have read her speeches, were greatly disappointed
in not hearing her speak in public. We had
hoped that when she came we should hear her in
the large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, or in the
Assembly Hall, but her stay was so brief, that it
was quite impossible to advertise a lecture, and
it would have been placing her at a disadvantage
to have urged it so hurriedly. Her voice is clear
as a sweet-toned bell and her manner in speaking
is simply perfect, so natural and unaffected. Her
language is eloquent and she speaks without notes
with the greatest ease and freedom. Altogether
she is a charming, young woman, and we cannot
help regretting that the Salt Lake people had not
the privilege of hearing her.
	It is true that we knew she was coming having
been informed by letter, but were not notified of
the exact time so as to be sufficiently sure, to ad-
vertise a lecture, besides not having her consent
which would have been positively essential.
	Miss Balgarnie speaks for the Liberal Associa-
tions, she styles herself a thorough-going Liberal
and her sympathies are all with the wage-earning
women of all countries, but her work lies with the
working-women of England,Scotland and Ireland.
She tells some very pathetic tales of their condi-
tion and how these Associations are helping them
to better themselves.
	Miss Balgarnie represented at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington as Fraternal Del-
egate, Associations numbering nearly ninety
thousand women, amongst these were the British
Woman’s Temperance Association of which Lady
Henry Somerset is the honored President. The
Women's Peace and Arbitration Society, The
Women’s Liberal Federation of Great Britain
aud Woman Suffrage Associations.
	The morning after Miss Balgarnie’s arrival in
the City,(she came in on a late train), she came to
this office, and Mrs. Emily S. Richards called a
few minutes later and we three ladies went out
together, first making a call at the Deseret News
Office where in the editor’s sanctum the lady was
introduced to a trio of these distinguished gentle-
man C. W. Penrose, John Nicholson and W. J.
Sjodahl, she chatted with Elders Penrose and
Nicholson a few minutes pleasantly and then we
went to the Temple grounds, where she was
shown the Tabernacle and Assembly Hall etc,and
we began our climb to the top of the East tower
of the Temple. The fine view of the city from
the roof and windows of this magnificent structure
she thoroughly enjoyed, as she is an ardent ad-
mirer of the beautiful in nature. From the Temple
we repaired to the residence of Mrs. Phebe
Young Beattie where a delicious luncheon was
in waiting, also one or two other ladies, who had
heard of Miss Balgarnie’s arrival and were
anxious to meet her socially; among them Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the W. S. A. of
Utah. After the lunch a barouche was at the
door, and the party of five drove with her about
town, called at the offices of President Wilford
Woodruff where the lady was introduced to the

[Column 2]

President and also to his Counselor Joseph F.
Smith, and others; she seemed to enjoy the few
moments conversation with the venerable Presi-
dent, and made some inquiries afterwards con-
cerning his age and appeared to think as every 
one must that he is a wonderfully well-preserved
man for his years. The party of fivethen dined at
the Templeton.
	We all talked and Miss Balgarnie had told us
of her tour in America and Canada, and we felt
more and more that her stay was much too brief
for her entertaining conversation.
	Mrs. Beatie opened her parlors for a informal 
reception in honor of Miss Balgarnie in the
evening, but it was impossible to send out many
even verbal invitations on such short notice, yet
a few interesting people assembled in the evening
and the lady conversed in an easy and graceful
way though no set speeches were made. She was
presented with a very handsome basket of choice 
flowers by one of the ladies of the party and
several little gifts of books from both ladies and
gentlemen.
	Among the most notable at the reception were
Apostle Franklin D. Richards and his wife Jane
S. Richards, his daughter Mrs. Nellie Webber,
Mrs. Carrie E. Dye, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
whom Miss Balgarnie had met in London and
passed a pleasant hour with in 1890, Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall, Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, Miss
Margery Dwyer, Mr. Dwyer, Mr. W. B. Dougall, 
and a few others; just before nine o’clock the
carriage came to take the lady away, her good
bye was hurriedly said and accompanied by two
or three of the ladies she took in the Salt Lake
theatre on her way to the train where an opera
company were giving a popular performance, and
then away to the Denver depot where we waited
to see her safe on board and off for New York
via Denver. Miss Balgarnie expected to sail on 
the S. S. Britanica on the 20th of April for her
home in London. It is our impression that the
lady is very much pleased with her visit to
America as a whole. The Yosemite valley she
considered worth almost risking one’s life
to visit. She spent considerable time traveling
in Canada as well, and had visited Niagara Falls 
several times. She was anxious to know concern-
ing the early pioneers to the valley realizing that
the privations and hardships must have been
great. Her visit was a real pleasure for she is a 
very charming person and especially so in con-
versation, though she is something of a radical in
opinions,she sustains the position she takes logi-
cally.
	We shall be very glad to hear of her safe ar-
rival in England, and are interested in her work
which is broad and thorough; and hope to see
what she tells the people in her public speeches
of her experience in America and her visit to
Utah.


THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE CAUSE.

	The advancement of woman's cause is noticable
in many places recently where more privileges are
being extended to women in voting for school
suffrage, municipal suffrage etc. Bills have been
introduced in the Legislatures of several states,
notably in New York, where a bill has passed the
Assembly giving women "the right to vote for all
and every officer hereafter to be elected in this
State and on every question to be submitted to a 
vote of the people." It is the opinion of Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton that the Senate will not pass
this bill, but if not now a day is not far distant
when similar measures will, everything tends to-
wards it; the race is being converted to woman's 
suffrage surely and thoroughly, not excitedly with
out educating but thoughtfully and with the bes
motives in view, the uplifting of humanity through
the mothers.


The bill referred to passed the Assembly April
15, by a vote of 69 to 34. There was some oppo-
sition from a Tammany Hall representative,
which it is said aroused so much indignation as to
carry the bill; following is the bill.
	“An act to prevent discrimination on account of
sex at elections.
	The people of the State of New York Repre-
sented in Senate and Assembly do Enact as Fol-
lows:
	Section 1. Every citizen irrespective of sex
shall hereafter be entitled to vote for all and
every officer hereafter to be elected in this State
and on any question submitted to a vote of the
people, and it shall be unlawful to make any dis-
crimination between citizens on account of sex at
such elections.
	Section 2. No poll clerk, inspector of election
or other election officer or person fulfilling such
duties, shall hereafter refuse to register or to re-
ceive the vote of any adult citizen at any such
election by resson of the sex of such citizen pro-
vided such citizens shall in all other respects
possess the qualifications now required by law.
	Section 3. This act shall take effect July 1893.
	In Kansas municipal suffrage was granted in
1887 and Gov. Humphreys of that State says "the
vote of women has increased at each election.”
At one of the City elections this year in that
state it is stated as a fact that nearly every woman
in the City voted and it was a grand victory for
the better elements of society. “At Jewell the
women nominated a ticket and elected it.” At
Le Roy the issue was the closing of the dives and
joints.” At Newton the woman vote was very
large and a woman was elected a member of the
school board.
	In Illinois the women are making good use of
the ballot for school suffrage. In Freeport in
that State over four hundred men came out to
vote, where last year there were only forty just
to keep a woman from being school trustee.
	At Evanston a conservative seat of learning
there was considerable enthusiasm, and a com-
mittee of woman suffrage advocates did effective
work as soon as they were positive the City At-
torney would allow them to vote, which was not
until the morning of the election. At Blooming-
ton 1,400 women voted for members of the Board
of Education. Women voted largely at Galva,
Hillsboro, Joliet, Aurora, Salem, Princeton,
Normal, Centralia, Vandalia, Effiingham and
pretty well all over the State where the school
elections have been held,
	So woman suffrage is making men wake up to
their privileges lest they should lose them. So
far so good. As a rule in all probability if wo-
men had the privilege of nominating they would
choose men or at least a majority of men. Wo-
men are vastly more generous towards men, than
men are chivalrous to women.
	Wyoming as yet stands alone in the matter of
universal suffrage and has demonstrated the
success of political equality without limitations.
In the House of Representatives in Congress
April 25, Clark of Wyoming introduced a bill
which if it becomes a law, will extend the right of
franchise to every woman in the country over
twenty-one years of age to vote for Representa-
tives for Congress. Thus step by step the way
is being paved with these stepping stones and
occasionally a corner stone is laid by some great
and grand woman in the structure of woman's
Temple of Freedom upon which an imposing
monument of honor may be erected by those who -
come after.
	Majestically the world moves onward and with
this great tide of humanity constantly increasing
in knowledge woman is keeping well abreast of
the time,and the figure of the woman representing
Liberty will ere long be enshrined in a living,
breathing race of women, instead of one carved
out of the cold marble.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTE

	Mrs. Young, President of the Relief Society,
and Mrs. Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
have received official notice of the Biennial Meet-
ing of the National Council of Women which is
to occur in May 1892, and will be held in Chicago
and at which time it is expected they will be
present, as they are by virtue of the office they
hold ex-officio Vice Presidents of the National
Council. Important matters are to be brought
before the Council relating to the International
Council of Women which will meet in Chicago
during the World’s Columbian Exposition, and
will in all probability be the most imposing body
of women from various countries ever gathered
in an assembly for the transaction of business
pertaining to the elevation of womankind through
the advancement of all that pertains to the higher
cultivation of the powers of the human soul. One
of the advantages of the connection of these As-
sociations with the National and International
Councils of Women is in bringing into contact
women engaged in the various pursuits, occupa-
tions and professions that are opening wider
avenues of employment and progression, and
helping to sound the key-note of woman’s free-
dom to all the world. Although perhaps neither
Mrs. Young or Mrs. Taylor can make it con-
venient to attend this year on account of the long
distance, yet they will probably send letters ex-
pressing their views upon the subjects under con-
sideration, and also pay their quota of percentage,
which it was voted should be paid at stated inter-
vals during the intervening four years instead of
paying so large a sum as one hundred dollars
down.


UTAH SILK FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR.

Editor Exponent:
	Brother Graves, Supt. Utah Co. Silk Ass’n. at
the Relief Society Conference held in Provo on
the 15th inst. informed the meeting that Mrs. P.
P. Jennings of Salt Lake City, one of the Ladies’
Committee for the World’s Fair wished three silk
dress patterns made which they propose to wear
there,also a piece of Shot Silk for exhibition. The
following resolutions were sustained at the meet-
ing,
	1. Be it resolved that we, members of the Utah
Co. Stake Relief Society, will do all we can to
meet the wishes of the Ladies’ Committee in re-
gard the World’s Fair at Chicago.
	2. Be it resolved that the President of each
Ward Relief Society, appoint a committee of
three from their Ass’n. to assist in the same. 
	3.Be it resolved that an account of this meet-
ing be sent to the Deseret News and Exponent
asking all those who may have reeled silk or
cocoons that will reel,to send word to Mrs. M. A.
Till, Pres, of U. C. S. A. We hope to have the
active co-operation of these Societies, their
services having been enlisted in this industry
from the first organization in 1877. We have
sufficient spun silk to make one hundred and fifty
yds. fabric; but wish those having reeled silk or
good cocoons to confer with us as early as pos-
sible, we also wish to engage the services of one
or two good reelers. We desire to hear from
those interested in Silk Culture and will be
pleased to answer any question pertaining to the
same, and will post the societies in the near
future regarding their appointment of committees
and also what we wish them to do.
	M. A. TILL, Pres. U. Co. S. A.


LAID TO REST.
	The beloved Cor. Secretary of the W. P. C.A.,
Mrs.Emilie Tracy Y. Parkhurst, has passed away.
Last Thursday eve. the 21st inst, news was re-


ceived of her death after a lingering illness of a
few months. A woman of rare powers, her in-
fluence has been widely felt.  An unfaltering
friend, her life-work has been devoted to the
bettering of her kind.  She had the devotion and
respect of hosts of admirers whose hearts are
well nigh broken in an irreparable loss. She was
the organizer and stay of the P. C.W. P. A. and
none can fill her place with the same tact and
balance as she exercised.
	Today (Sunday) the sad last rites of the Catho-
lic Church over her body were read. The Church
was filled with mourning friends who had come
to take a farewell glimpse of this noble woman
whose life work ended all too soon. 
	ALMA ALDEN.
San Francisco, April 24, 1892.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake, convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 8th of March
President Olivia Widerborg presiding. Singing
"How great the joy;" prayer by Anna Wixom;
singing, "Great God attend while Zion sings;"
Treasurer's report read by Fannie Graehl.
	Counselor Zilla Rees: "We need strength
from our heavenly Father, to perform our daily
duties in the right manner; we need to be
watchful and prayerful; we know the evil one
is working hard; let us try to set a proper ex-
ample before our children.
	Sister Harper: "It behooves us to be united,
we must live in such a manner, as to merit the
approval of our heavenly Father."
	Sister Thorne: "My desire is to do my duty,
I feel it is good to meet together to build each
other up.'
	Sister Dewey: "We who are here, feel we
recieve the benefit of meeting together; we all
please our heavenly Father by feeling friendly
towards one another."
	Sister Christina Jensen desired to do her duty.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker: "Let nothing
hinder us, that we can possible conquer, but try
to come together and assist each other."
	Counselor Mary Wright: "I feel we are a
blest band of sisters; this organization has been
a great blessing to us; the spirit of the Lord is
in our bosoms if we try to do our duty; let us
be prayerful."
	Emilia D. Madsen was the next speaker, then
singing: "May the grace of Christ." Benediction
by Sister Watkins. Afternoon session: singing:
"Guide us Oh! thou great Jehovah." Prayer by
Bishop Dewey. Singing: "How beauteous are
their feet."
	Sister Hubbard: It is long since I have en-
joyed the privilege of being here, on account
of poor health; it is my earnest desire to al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord in my heart,
to enlighten my mind; if we fail to receive
blessings, it is our own fault, for our Father is
always ready to pour out blessings upon us; we
want to be worthy of the society of the faithful.
	President Olivia Widerborg: "I feel the Lord
has blessed us greatly; we have visited through
the Stake and found good sisters, that desire
to do their duties; the Relief Society sisters are
ready to go and look after the poor and needy
and the downhearted. I never saw a time
with greater need for mothers and wives to
live near to the Lord; plead for the Spirit
of God to assist you. The adversary is keen;
let us be united and keep in the straight and
narrow path. Spoke of the coming Jubilee.
	Counselor Charles Kelly: "I hear you are to
celebrate a Jubilee; fifty years have passed
since the Lord moved on his Prophet to organ,


ize this great help to the Church; if a con-
densed report was presented, it would astonish
the sisters; if any one should know the poor,
the Relief Society surely should; there is no
necessity that any one should suffer Zion."
He also made other good remarks.
	Sister Susannah T. Booth: "It looks as though
the sisters had started a new year with reso-
lutions to improve; I realize when we stag
away from our meetings, we miss something
and still those absent ones, perhaps, cannot
govern circumstances. We have to be charit-
able and long suffering."
	Condensed report read by assistant secretary
Anna Wixom. Mary Jensen: "We are not all
alike or brought up alike, but I feel we are
united; that makes it pleasant to work together."
We ought to be the most grateful people upon
earth, for we are the most blessed. Fifty years
ago we were organized; what a blessing it has
been to us; it has certainly made me better."
	Bishop Harper: "It matters not where the
Latter-day Saints meet, male or female, in the
Spirit of the Lord, their testimony is the same
and the Lord blesses those that are true and
faithful."
	Sister Watkins: "I have seen and heard the
Prophet Joseph many times, I know he was
the prophet of God. I was in the meeting
when the mantle of Joseph was received by
Brigham Young."
	"Bishop Hubbard: "I always rejoiced in the
company of the Prophet Joseph I never doubted
that he was a true Prophet, I have never
doubted this was the work of God. I was in
Nauvoo when the Relief Society was organized.
I pray the God of Israel to bless these sisters
and brethren; may they stand firm and faith-
ful."
	Sister Harding: "If mothers are not trying to
keep the Spirit of the Lord to help them, they
are making a great mistake. Sometimes the
greatest trials we go through, are the greatest
blessings we could receive.
	President Widerborg; reported the Scandi-
navian sisters Society said: "Sister Richards
visited me and sent her love to all the sisters;
let us all try our best and not get tired of
well doing. I see before me some of our
noblest women; do not be weary of this great
work." Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing: 'Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing." Benediction: Bro. Graham.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿

W. ﻿S. A. REPORTS.

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th, Ward Assembly Rooms, April 19th, 1892,
Vice President Louise K. Spencer in the chair.
Opened by singing, "Help The Working Wo-
man", prayer by Elizabeth Mc'Farlane; sing-
ing, "Columbia's Daughters."
	Mrs Nellie C. Taylor made a stirring speech
in behalf of working women, and deprecated
the manner in which some women looked down
upon those of their sex who were obliged to
work for their own support.
	Miss M. Goss gave an organ Solo very nicely.
Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read some newspaper
clippings on the subject of woman's labor
and made some comments on the same.
	Mrs. Maggie E. Bassett and Mr. Thomas
Ashworth, sang a duet, accompanied on the
organ by Prof. E. Stephens, which was very
much appreciated. Speeches by Margaret A.
Caine and Vice Prest. Phebe. C. Young, follow-
ed by a song by Miss Maud Pratt, closed the
exercises. The roll was called and the meeting
adjourned until the third Tuesday in May at
the same time and place.
		C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.

W. S. A. OF UTAH.
	A called meeting of the Woman Suffrage

[Column 2]

Association of Utah was held April 7th, in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall; Pres. S. M.
Kimball presiding. Meeting was opened by
singing, "Come, come away," from the Wo-
man Suffrage song book. Prayer by Bathsheba
W. Smith and the exercises continued by sing-
ing.
	Electa Bullock, of Provo, read an "Allegory
on Woman's Rights," by Josiah Allen's Wife;
she also stated they had a manuscript paper
edited monthly.
	President Kimball stated that she wanted
the foundation laid for a grand convention in
the fall; read some questions that had been
prepared to be answered at the convention of
October 1892. Spoke of a committee to recom-
mend a course of study for the associations
throughout the Territory, but had found that
the circumstances in the various counties were
so different that it did not seem possible to
carry the same course out in all.
	Lucy A. Smith, Farmington, read a few of
her ideas on the suffrage question which were
listened to with rapt attention.
	Jane S. Richards thought that if woman's
suffrage was good for a few it was good for all,
and believed that when the time came to share
the benefits of it all would be anxious to do so.
	President Kimball spoke of the great ad-
vantage that would be derived from having a
hall where women could go,and where literature
could be obtained. A call from the stand was
made for a representative from Emery county
and was responded to by Josie Childs. Meet-
ings in that county had not been held for some
time. Women should read, for that was the
best way to gain knowledge. Emily Richards
hoped President Kimball would be preserved
twenty-five years to labor in the cause, for she
had the courage to say what she thought.
(Applause.) President Joseph Smith had
turned the key for Women in this dispensation;
it was six years after this that women of the
nation roused themselves in endeavoring to ob-
tain their rights.
	Margaret Mitchell and Caroline E. Dye
made a few remarks upon the suffrage ques-
tion. Elmina S. Taylor made a stirring speech
and stated she had never failed to cast her vote
when she had the privilege.
	Mattie Barrus, of Wyoming, being in the
congregation, wished to add words of encour-
agement. Had voted there, also held office,
and had seen public offices filled by women
who fulfilled their duties much more credit-
ably than many men had, who occupied those
offices previous to the women.
	Elizabeth Howard, president of Salt Lake
County, Joanna Patten, of Provo, and Dr. E.
S. Barney spoke briefly on the suffrage ques-
tion.
	Mrs. Lapish of American Fork, was anxious
for Sarah M. Kimball, the Susan B. Anthony
of Utah, and other ladies to visit the associa-
tion in her district, for it would do much to-
wards stirring the subject up.
	Meeting then adjourned.
		ADAH CROXALL, Secretary.

S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, March 15, 1892. Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened by
singing from the suffrage song book "A suf-
frage song." Prayer by Julia Druce. Sing-
ing, "New America." Roll called Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved. After
which nine new members were admitted.
Annie Brixon of the 4th ward, Eliza Barton of
the 21st ward, and Margaret A. Caine of the
2nd ward, were appointed to act as agents of
the suffrage society in their respective wards.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke upon the duties of
these agents. The following programme was
then rendered.

[Column 3]

	Mary Silver made a short, interesting speech
upon suffrage. Mary A. Freeze read a poem
"The Yellow Ribbon." Elizabeth Mc'Farlane
spoke upon an article in the Herald against
women being given the right of suffrage; also
referred to an article written in reply by C.
W. Penrose in the News. I am very much
pleased to have such articles come before the
people,and it shows we are attracting attention,
it is agitation that brings education, I was very
much pleased with the remarks of Pres. Angus 
M. Cannon at our suffrage Sociable, and would
like to see one of his sentiments printed. "It
is easy to understand the love and affection
which a man bears for his wife; the love of
parents for their children, but the love and de-
votion of Susan B. Anthony to her sex is be-
yond comprehension and she might justly be
called the mother of her sex." Mrs. Mc'Far-
lane also read a Scotch Poem.
	Dr. E. S. Barney read an article from the
Evening News written by C. W. Penrose in
favor of suffrage for woman.
	Lillie Freeze "I feel that in this suffrage
move I am experiencing something which I
have longed for a long time, not knowing what
it was I did want."
	Notice of a meeting to be held on Friday
March 18th in the 12th ward was given.
	Pres. Howard had been greatly pleased and
instructed in the exercises and felt much
pleasure in attending these meetings.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in March at the same hour and place.
		M. A. CAINE, Ass't. Sec.

AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.
	Dear Editor: If you will give us a little space
in the Utah woman's paper I will try and
give your readers a little knowledge how the
suffrage cause is prospering here. We have a
paid up membership of one hundred and eleven
members. We hold meetings the last Friday
in each month in the Meeting House, by kind-
ness of Bishop Halliday. Meetings are fairly
attended; we have a Civil Government class of
eighteen enrolled students. Visiting Suffrage
members who take no part in the exercises but
who are interested listeners, three to eight.
Our class is becoming very interesting, and
much honor is due Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of
Provo, who kindly offered to instruct these
classes. We also petitioned the Am. Fork City
Council for the use of City Hall for W. S. civil
government class. Our petition was granted
unanimously. Mayor Cunningham instructed
the Sheriff to have a fire made in the Hall
and have it lighted every Monday evening for
the use of the Am. Fork W. S. civil govern-
ment class. Now we feel very proud and ap-
preciate the magnanimity of such men and it is
for such men we would vote to keep in office
who can accord to women such privileges; surely
the movement for equal rights of women is
advancing steadily. We have also made some
praiseworthy appropriations to the amount of
seventy-five dollars; we have a small bank
account of sixty dollars, and in the Treasury
nine dollars for incidental expenses we have
been very successful socially and financially
in giving entertainments; the association has 
property on hand to the amount of a little
over thirty dollars. I will honorably mention
our national flag, twelve feet long, with golden
star for Wyoming upon it, and as each State
gives to woman her emancipation we shall
make the stars golden, until the blue field
shall be covered with the grand galaxy of
golden States. We have the life size pictures
of E. C. Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and the
Susan B. Anthony of Utah, Sarah M. Kimball,
all in gilt frames, with other paraphernalia
for suffrage occasions. We have international
council of women for 1888 and 1891 which we
loan to members on time. We have fifty-one
subscribers to WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Woman's


Tribune. Women's Column, and Woman's
Business Journal. Also in looking over the tax
list we find in Am. Fork precinct one hundred
and nineteen Women who own property to the
amount of sixty-eight thousand dollars on
which they pay taxes, this is taxation and no
representation. Praying that women will
never quit nor get weary in the suffrage cause
until they are both heard and possess the great-
est boon ever given to humanity—the ballot.
	Yours for suffrage.
		HANNAH S. LAPISH, President.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	MARIAN DALLIN WHEELOCK.
Dear Sister Wells:
		It is with feelings of the deepest
sympathy that I communicate to you the death
of our beloved sister, Mrs. Marian Dallin Whee-
lock, who departed this life on the 13th of
March after a lingering illness of eight weeks,
which she bore with patient resignation. She
was a loving and affectionate wife and tender
mother, and was gifted with many noble and
redeeming qualities. Sister Wheelock was the
daughter of Tobius and Anthea Dallin, was
born in Newport, Monmouthshire, England,
May 27th, 1831. She embraced the gospel in
her girlhood and emigrated to Utah in 1852.
Her devotion to the cause of truth has been
manifested in her daily life. She was an earn-
est worker in whatever she engaged in, and
her loss will be greatly felt.
	For many years she was a faithful and
diligent teacher in the Sunday School, where
her labors will be greatly missed. During the
last five years she was president of the Primary
Association of the South Ward, Mt. Pleasant,
but in Aug, 1891, sent in her resignation on
account of failing health.
	She never was happier than when laboring
among the youth of Zion. She was held in the
highest esteem by not only the children of
Mt. Pleasant, but by a host of friends who
knew her throughout the Territory.
	She had the love of all she knew, and if she
had an enemy we knew it not. Her aged
husband has the heartfelt sympathy of the en-
tire community, as also her bereaved children.
	The funeral was largely attended by a host
of sympathizing friends and relatives.
		M. F. C. MORRISON.

ELIZABETH ALLRED.
	In loving remembrance of Sister Elizabeth
Allred, wife of Bishop J. A. Allred, and a faith-
ful Counselor in the presidency of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, associated also with
Sister Sarah Peterson, which place she filled
honorably until her death; she was ever a wise
Counselor. Her demise occured February
22nd, 1892, of pneumonia, at her residence in
Spring City, at the age of 69 years. As a kind
neighbor, faithful counselor and a true friend,
I regarded her with the utmost love and affec-
tion, and on my return home after an absence
of four months I shall miss her society and
companionship more than I can tell, as she was
always one of the first to welcome me whenever
I had been absent.
	Sister Allred was also my Counselor in the
Relief Society at Spring City, Sanpete Co., in our
first Society there many years previous to the
Stakes organization, and I mourn her loss most
deeply and sincerely though I feel assured she
has gone to a better world where all care and
suffering is over and the weary are at rest.
	She has left a host of friends, for whom she
always had a smile and a kind word, whatever
her own troubles might be. She never ceased
to mourn the loss of her only son, Stephen, who
was accidentally killed by the train at Thistle
Station in Dec. 1890, more than a year previous
to her death, leaving a very numerous family

[Column 2]

to whom she was much attached and for whom
she had the tenderest sympathy.
	She was always a faithful wife and mother,
seeking every opportunity to promote the hap-
piness and comfort of the family of her hus-
band, ever their true nurse in sickness, affliction
and trials, watching over them with all the
care and anxiety of a true mother and wife,
ready and willing at all times to sacrifice her
own comfort for their benefit. Together with
her husband, she entertained their friends and
neighbors in the most hospitable manner.
	Sister Allred will be greatly missed as a
representative woman in Sanpete Stake, having
been in the habit of traveling and meeting
with the sisters in the various localities for the
last ten or eleven years; but she has gone from
our midst, and we will see her dear face no more
in our assemblies; but let us, my sisters, emu-
late her noble example that we may be pre-
pared to dwell with her and the many loved
ones who have passed behind the vail. Rest
in peace, dear sister, and may we meet again
where there shall be no more sad partings.
		M. A. P. HYDE.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony will attend the an-
nual meeting of the Michigan E. S. A., to be
held at Battle Creek, May 4 and 5.
	The New York Legislature is flooded with
protests against the proposals to license the
social evil. Petitions against it are coming
in, the Buffalo Evening News says, "by the
thousand" and "by the cord."
	The Republican women of Wyoming are
talking of the formation of a woman's Re-
publican League with the idea of aiding the
party which "gave statehood to Wyoming and
with it presidential suffrage for women."—Ex.
	Sorosis celebrated its twenty-fourth birthday
at Sherry's last month. Three hundred women
sat down to breakfast at tables decked with
smilax, violets and roses. The question for
discussion was "Women's Clubs—their evolu-
tion, their present relations to women and to
society, and their future development."
	The WOMAN'S JOURNAL remarks that while
nearly half the States of the Union have given
women school suffrage and have found it harm-
less, "these school suffrage States are still afraid
that the most disastrous results would follow
municipal suffrage." This seems to be rather
a naive admission that the workings of woman
suffrage, so far as experimented with, are not
at all convincing to the States which make the
experiment.—Boston Daily Journal.
	An amusing incident is reported in connec-
tion with the recent exhibition of the bust of
Louisa M. Alcott, made by Mr. Elwell, the
sculptor, whose boast it is that he was one of
Miss Alcott's "boys." When the bust was
displayed with other works of art at a studio
reception, two women were observed to pause
before a bust of Mary Magdalene and heard to
say, in tones of disappointment, that it did not
come up to their ideal of Miss Alcott.


[Column 1]
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP,
Will commence her Spring class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday May 9, 1892—at
her Office 18, S. Main St. 

	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

[Column 2]
	THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year.  Trial Subscriptions,  five
	weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

[Rio Grande Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE 
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.   Supt.  G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


Hana F. A. Richards

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

