Vol. 20. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1891.			No. 7 [7 crossed out and 8 written]


CONTENTS.

	Woman—Frances. In Rural England. Notes
and News. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Re-
ports—Colonia Diaz, Mexico. W. S. A. Salt 
Lake Co.,—C. C. R. Wells, Sec. Utah W. S. A.
—Ada Croxall, Sec. The Training of a Nurse—
Mary Cadwalader Jones.

	EDITORIAL:—General Semi-Annual Confer-
ence. Relief Society Conference. The Annual 
Territorial Fair.

	POETRY:—Good Wishes—Lula. "Land of Too
Late—L. M. Hewlings. Comfort for the Mother
—Augusta Joyce Crocheron.


GOOD WISHES
		AFTER CONFERENCE 
			October, 1891.

If memory could but keep, in constant view,
The many, many precious things we’ve heard;
So simple, yet so grand, so plain and true;
The thoughts awakened and the feelings stirred;
Then might we live by Father’s every word.

How near to Him—Our Father—we are brought,
While list’ning to the plans His love reveals!
How bright the visions of His presence caught, 
How to our hearts the sacred voice appeals,
While Truth sublime His testimony seals!

By Prophets spoken, and of God approved—
Yea, giv'n of God, those words of life and peace!
May their blest influence never be removed, 
But daily, hourly with the Saints increase,
Till Truth shall triumph, sin and sorrow cease.

May that sweet Charity which conquers wrong,
From Zion's portals o’er the world extend;
That Unity which makes God’s people strong,
Yet stronger grow all virtue to defend;
And Christ, in glory, soon to earth descend.
									LULA.


"LAND OF TOO LATE."

There's a land in the ocean of life,
	Weird, desolate, lonely and drear,
Where the day-star of hope enters not.
	With brightness to gladden and cheer.
There is never a dawn on its shore,
	Nor rift through its cloud darken'd gloom,
Never soft swaying breezes flit o'er,
	This bleak land of terrible doom.
Restless billows surge on there for aye,
	Beat fierce on this land of "Too Late".
No power e'er can hinder or stay,
	Or turn back the tide of regret,
There's no path in the land of "Too Late"
	That e'en genius, can ever retrace,
And never a spot can there be found.
	To commence anew in life's race.
On the cold barren land of "Too Late"
	Opportunity ne'er holds sway,
To bear onward to nobler estate,
	That never admits of delay.
Ever goes forth a despairing cry;
	From this desert of direst fate,
Opportunities all gone by,
	Wrecked for aye, on the land of "Too Late."
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


[column 1]
WOMAN.
---
	Woman is, or should be the equal of man. 
She would be if those rights and privileges,

[column 2]
political, social and otherwise, to which she is
justly and fairly entitled were not fraudulently
withheld from her.  Woman in herself is a
study, and as man at all times has misunder-
stood, and failed to understand or to recog-
nize her true merit, to comprehend of what
she is capable and competent of doing,it is time
woman herself undertook this stupendous and
Herculean task, and to man for the time be-
ing let her remain as a riddle unsolved. Let
her thoroughly examine, discuss and analyze
woman from every point of view.  She per-
ceives many evils at the present time for which
apparently there is no remedy.  Truth is per- 
verted, the Constitution of the United States,
which was founded and established under the
inspiration of Almighty God, spoken of and
treated as a dead letter.  Dead!  Who shall
redeem it?  Raise it from the dust under
which it is trodden? This is a question which
presents itself to the mind of thinking woman.
Is she a fit instrument for such a mighty work?
In what way could she, lone, unaided woman
effect the needful and welcome change. It
would take time, perhaps not in this genera-
tion could the grand consumnation be reached.
Has she patience, perseverance, fortitude and
all the necessary qualifications sufficient to
carry her through?  Let her read herself as
before stated, and become thoroughly ac-
quainted with woman; her ability, and re-
sources, before contemplating a work of such
vast magnitude, and for which she may be
utterly incapacitated.
	Woman in the beginning, when placed in
the garden of Eden, by her Creator to be a
helpmeet for man was in no way either physi-
cally or mentally the inferior of man. But
says man she transgressed the laws laid down
for them by their Maker, in partaking of the
forbidden fruit, she also tempted Adam to
partake of the same, thus being the first to
commit sin and to bring trouble into the world.
Very true, but the probability is if Adam had
tasted it first he would have kept the knowl-
edge to himself and have not offered to share
it with his companion.  Woman has always
since that time had the reputation of being of
an inquisitive nature.  And what is inquisi-
tiveness? but a thirst for knowledge, a desire
to find out something that will be of mutual
advantage to others, and the person immedi-
ately concerned. She wished to share that
which was good with her fellow creature
which is a credit to her, and certainly showed
her to be actuated solely by motives of a purely
unselfish and generous character.
	Woman is generally spoken of and univers-
ally acknowleged to be the weaker sex. 
That she is not mentally and intellectually is an un-
disputable fact, as the abundant literary pro-
ductions produced by women of the past and
present day go to show, some of them being
the most able historical works ever written,
requiring as much careful discrimination and
profound thought as could ever be conceived or
imagined in the brain and mind of her would
be superior, man.    As far as morals are con-
cerned, woman is decidedly in the advance.
One has only to read and observe that in all
criminal offences and of vice in all its various
forms and phases man practically takes the
lead.  It may be argued that woman is just
as corrupt only she does not happen to get
found out.  She denies that, but taking for
granted that it was so, it would go to show that
she possessed superior skill in planning and

[column 3]
devising, and a large amount of executive
ability, which if operated in the right direction
would produce great results.
	That women in civilized life is physically 
weaker than man is beyond a doubt, but that
she was ever created or designed to be so by
her Maker she fails to see; If there were a
difference it should be in her favor as she
has not only to nourish herself but others. 
That woman can endure prolonged labor pri-
vation of food and sleep, in most instances 
better than man has been particularly noticed
and referred to by physicians and others, and
there are living to-day quite as many aged 
and vigorous women who have been as active
and hardworking through life as men.
	The healthy woman is she who has some- 
thing to do, and who finds a reasonable amount
of enjoyment in so doing.   The weakly woman 
is either she who has very little else to do ex-
cept in helping others to make her pretty
things to wear, laces tight, compressing her 
body out of shape; eats everything which is
calculated to disagree with her, thus rendering
her dyspeptic, dances to excess, and outrages 
nature’s laws generally; and she who having 
to work twice as hard as a man, for a small
pittance barely sufficient to keep body and
soul together; or having a large family to take
care of and obtaining no sympathy from her
husband, is allowed to work unceasingly and
beyond her strength, thus destroying her
health, making room for disease, and at length
becomes a confirmed invalid.  This is woman's
fault to a great extent, and should be rectified
by her. 
It is a pretty idea, that of the sturdy oak
and clinging ivy, but is useless in the affairs of
practical and every day life.  Woman needs
something more than poetry, she finds she has
to face the stern realities of life just the same 
as man.  If she commits a crime she is 
punished as severely as man.  But if she per-
form a day’s work just as well, intelligently 
and conscientiously as man, she does not re-
ceive the same remuneration.  The lord of
creation has wrested her natural-born rights
from her under the pretence that she is not as 
competent in fulfilling a duty as man.  She is 
not considered capable of understanding or 
reasoning on such matters as politics and so
forth, and therefore deserves no voice in the 
same.  Man calls her his darling, his love and
his dear, which is all very pretty, but hardly
satisfying in these days when truth is rocked
to sleep, justice chloroformed and politicians 
will persist in viewing woman through green
spectacles.
Well, says man, what is it you require do
you want to sit in Congress, and all that sort
of thing?  No, woman craves no such thing
(although if she ever gets there it will be be-
cause she is fitted for that position.) She
simply asks for what ought to be voluntarily
extended to her, the right to vote, let her stay
at home, mind her own business, and attend 
to her household affairs.  Certainly, Sir, that 
is what she intends to do, but as one conscien-
tous gentleman remarked to a party of ladies,
“If a man cannot spare his wife for fifteen
minutes once in every six months to cast her
vote, he is not deserving of a wife at all."
Exactly, woman entirely coincides in that
opinion.  She is not likely to stop on the road 
to procure a drink of whiskey, neither could
her vote be bought for the same.  That
quarter of an hour would not be wasted


There would be no need of man losing his 
supper on that account, or the mending of
the children's stockings being postponed.  The
laws effect her just as much as they do him,
in fact they effect her more seriously.  Take 
for instance the condition of a widow at the 
decease of her husband,she can touch nothing,
she is not even the guardian of her own chil-
dren, without first requesting the favor of be-
ing allowed to become so.  But the tax card
drops in just the same.  Does the country
need better and more able politicians? De-
cidedly, men who will recognize and assign to 
woman that which belongs her.
*	*	*	*	*
	Let women improve the present time, the
moments are golden do not let them pass by
unheeded. Let woman educate herself, and 
cultivate her mental and intellectual faculties
to the fullest extent.  A healthy mind will
help to build up a healthy body, the two
working in harmony together will make of
woman what she ought to be.  Let her first
study herself, and having learned the alphabet
progress step by step, until she becomes versed
in all matters pertaining to the present and
future welfare of a great nation.  Then having
thoroughly learned the science of government
let her teach it to her sons and daughters, they 
in turn will impart to theirs.  By this means
the peerless and glorious constitution of
America will be preserved that a correct form
 of government be maintained.
	Let woman bestir herself and prove equal
to the emergency.  It is only when stern
necessity and matters requiring the greatest
expediency stare her in the face that she ever
renders herself conspicuous.  Man need not be 
afraid she will ever disgrace any privileges
which may be accorded to her, or usurp the
rights which properly belong to man.
	There is a grand reformation at hand, a great
future opening up before us.  The organiza-
tion of the Woman Suffrage Association was
an important step in the right direction.  The
men of Mormondom,(speaking of the majority)
are the only men on the face of the earth who
appreciate and estimate woman at her true
value.  The little stone which was cut out of the 
mountain without hands, has rolled forth, and 
will eventually fill the whole earth.  There is
something in the far distance which can only
be discerned by the eye of faith.  It is the
reformation not of a nation, but of the whole
world, the time spoken of in Holy Writ when
men shall beat their swords into ploughshares,
their spears into pruning hooks, when nation
shall not rise up against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more.  This is the grand
consummation of all things.  The opening up
of the Millenium in which one of the chief and
prime movers will be woman.
				Frances.
	Fountain Green, Sanpete Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	IN RURAL ENGLAND.

	IV
	“My dear uncle,” replied the thoughtful
niece, in answer to his question, as they sat to-
gether at breakfast that first morning after his
return, “I am indeed willing to do all I can
for your comfort and happiness, but I cannot
play a false part, and therefore I must speak
out plainly, to you after your generous offer
of a home for me, I have been quite contented
here with one exception.  Remember uncle I
have been carefully taught by a wise mother,
and it may seem to you prudish, but I cannot
countenance any freedom on the part of men,
toward young women, or girls, especially; and
I have always been told men were the pro- 
tectors of women.” “And who says they are
not, by Jove I’d like to see the man that dare

[Column 2]
venture into my domain without first consult-
ing me, getting permission in fact, he’d have a
sorry time of it, might get his head broken.
But Jane what do you mean?” observing that
his niece turned very pale, and trembled as she
poured out his coffee.
	“Uncle Edward I think you should know
everything that concerns your only child, and
I have made bold to speak to you, because,
well because it is right, and it must be for the
best, for her and for you.”
	Sir Edward held his cup in his hand and 
paused, “for her and for me, who Jane, whom
do you mean?  have the servants been having
a high time below stairs in my absence?  I
trouble little about them Mrs. Hess (the house-
keeper) manages well—I don’t care even if she
were to leave, so long as I have you Jane.”
	“But it is quite another person in whom I am
so deeply interested, your own daughter, my
cousin Anna.” “Well isn’t she getting on all
right, the Dr. has been attentive you told me,
she’s improving, I’ll go up and see her directly
surely no man, has dared to approach my
house with a view of making love to her, she’s 
a child, a mere child, you are her chaperone
now, that is you must be, I shall expect it out of
you.”
	“Let me see Jane, she will be eighteen on 
her next birthday, just after Christmas, O,
how the years fly, I’ve been abroad since then
more, than once, yes in Italy, and in Greece,
and everywhere her presence my own darling
wife has haunted me, but now that you are
with me I shall stay at home, and look better
after my own affairs, they are in a ruinous con-
dition I fear.”
	Miss Conway saw that he was drifting away
 from the subject and scarcely knew what she
ought to say, didn’t want to make too serious 
a matter of it, and so waited to see what turn
his conversation might take, for she felt deeply
that now her cousin was better something must
be done.
	Finally when Sir Edward had finished his
morning repast—he looked across to his niece
and said, “Jane you have not answered my
question, do you mean to stay with me? be-
cause if not I shall pack up and be off, its far
too dull in this gloomy old place in the winter
time,” “In that case,” Miss Conway replied,
“you would take Anna with you, it might be
the best for her.” ‘‘But how about yourself
Jane?  Not very pleasant to stay here alone
even for a few months, besides what opening
have you?” 
	“I could go as companion to some gentle-
woman,” “or governess,” added her uncle. “No!
never!  I am not even capable of taking care
of one young girl.” “And why,” retorted the
uncle quickly. “Have you and Anna dis-
agreed so soon?”
	“Allow me to explain uncle Edward, we
have been the best of friends Anna and I, but
she needs advise from you, in fact your care,
yes, she needs your presence here at home, or
if she goes abroad, she needs you with her.”
Miss Conway paused, she had spoken plainly
to this austere man, whom even his own child
dare not approach with any save common-
place matters.  In fact father and daughter
were wide apart, each occupied a different
world as it were of thought and feeling; and
this young woman, this stranger relative had
come and grasped the situation intuitively as
it were, and touched the heart even, (if heart
he had) of her haughty uncle.  She trembled
violently as she stood before him awaiting his
answer, she knew not if he would deign to
reply at all, but in her fearlessness she cared
not, for to herself she had said of late,—“Anna
must be saved at all hazards.”
	After this explanation the unsuspecting
father began to comprehend there was some
mystery and he flew into such a violent passion
and swore, and threatened, and created such a

[Column 3]
furore that the Dr. had to be sent for, though
the imperturbable Jane never lost control of
herself for a single moment.
	During the entire scene Miss Conway kept
the servants in awe by her tranquil manner,
and the old Dr. when quiet was at last re-
stored, declared she was a veritable heroine.
However he warned her against rousing the
violent temper of the Baronet again as it
might prove fatal, and in reply received the
astounding announcement from this daring
young woman, that whatever the consequences
he must be warned in time. “Aha,” said the
Doctor who began to suspect something con-
nected with his daughter.
	Miss Conway was puzzled, she scarcely knew
whether to make him a confident or not—and
so replied quietly, “it is a family affair,” add-
ing apologetically, “and I have no right to
make it public.” “But if it concerns my
patient, and he must be apprised of it then I
am the one to whom you should speak, or per-
haps I can solve the difficulty without his as-
sistance and inform him afterwards,” said the
Dr. evidently intent on making the best of the
situation.
	“Dr. Bland you are older and wiser than I
am,” the young woman answered, “it is my
first experience with a difficult problem of the
sort and perhaps I was too pronounced, but
you surgeons, when you have to probe a wound
go to the root of the matter; cut deep so to
speak, Uncle Edward’s pride is strong—but I
want him to remedy the great wrong he is
doing in leaving his child to herself so much.”
“You are right so far Miss Conway,” said the
Dr. but he is not likely to take this advice
from any woman; it must come from one he
would recognize as an adviser, and it cannot
be done just yet—and you Miss Conway are
quite capable of dealing with this “difficult
problem’ as you term it, for the present;
though I have no idea just what it is, I should
infer from your ‘beating about the bush,’ that
Miss Hilliard is in danger, has fallen in love!
poor child don’t know what love is, though I
am well aware she is intensely emotional.”
	“That my cousin knows nothing of love I
grant you, but she imagines a great deal,” was
the reply rather curtly given.
	“So long as it is only imaginary, and there
is no real object, no man in the case, I cannot
see the actual harm unless for the future, and
we can look out for that,” continued the Dr.
intending gradually to draw Miss Conway out
to confide in him.
	And so he did, almost inadvertently he
learned the facts, without incidents, that some
one had without permission of the Baronet
sought the company of the young Lady of the
Castle,and that unsophisticated as she was and
in a certain sense unprotected, he had pre-
sumed beyond the bounds of propriety to say
the least.
	Miss Conway did not need to explain to the
Dr. that her cousin was totally uneducated in
such matters, he was well aware of the fact,
but like her father looked upon her as a mere
child.
	“Your coming to this house Miss Conway
was certainly Providental, and you must stay
at whatever cost until things shape themselves
differently; your nncle needs you now to nurse
him, no one can do it so well, and get Anna
interested in helping you, it may lead to
greater confidence between father and child”—
with this and other fatherly advice the genial
old Dr. left her to think over what he had 
said, and went back to his patient, whom he
found in a high fever, tossing and moaning,
and talking incoherently.  As soon as he could
leave the room he informed Miss Conway of
her uncle’s condition and that he should re-
main through the night; sent off messages to
his young assistant, and gaveinstructions that no


one should be admitted to the house except by
his approval.
	Miss Conway followed the Dr's. advice and
took her cousin with her to the sick room, but
she possessed none of the aptitude or adapta-
bility for nursing that seemed so natural to
her cousin Jane. The two girls were widely
different in every respect, Jane possessed those
qualities that in a man would be termed
masterful,yet there was no display of authority.
Anna was the very opposite, she was without
the balance of character, that under other cir-
cumstances, she might have acquired; her gov-
erness had taught her that ladies only needed
accomplishments; and the books she had read
only fed her vanity and filled her head with
false ideas of love. French novels were her
great admiration, and it was with much per-
suasion that her cousin had induced her to read
books of a better kind, which she selected,and
talked of them to her in such a way as to
awaken an interest in her. Is it any wonder
that with her mind fed upon chaff or poisoned
with sophistry she should be weak and vacil-
lating in character, incapable of judging right
from wrong; she had no standard to judge by;
religion to her was a myth, and yet she was a
girl of good impulses, innocent of wrong in-
tentions as a child, and susceptible of truth
when presented. Her cousin Jane was the
best tutor she could have, for without any
exercise of authority she impressed her with
her personality, and could no doubt have
molded her in mind and developed her best
capabilities, had it not been for the unfortunate
attachment she had previously formed for
Mr. Walton.
	When Miss Hilliard was informed of her
father's illness she was greatly shocked,though
she was wholly unaware of the cause; she
feared her only parent more than she loved
him, but now when she saw him lie so low and
helpless, this great, strong man, she felt a sort
of pity akin to tenderness; and she forgot her
own weakness in devoting herself to him. It
was a new experience, and it was good for her
in that it brought her out of herself—and gave
her new thoughts and fresh duties.
	In a few days Sir Edward was able to sit
up and Jane began to wonder if the Dr.
would keep his word. She realized during the
time of his illness, how proud he was of his
rank and how unforgiving; it leaked out in
his deliriam, and how hard it was going to be
for him to forgive even his own daughter for
and indiscretion; Anna's health improved
rapidly and Jane's fear was that she would
soon be going out in the grounds and meet
with Mr. Walton, for with her quick percep-
tion she passed judgement upon him at their
first interview and believed him capable of
any intrigue or plot, should he be unable to
obtain an interview openly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		COMFORT FOR THE MOTHER.
	The following was written to Mrs. A. R. Shaw of Ogden
on the death of her infant son.
[Republished by request]
A flood of light the midnight filled
And every sound to silence stilled,
And right before the mother stood
A stranger, mighty, pure and good,
He looked into her anxious eyes
Watching the varying feelings rise,
And knew her soul’s calm, steadfast truth
And all her blameless life from youth;
Then answering her eyes of prayer
He opened one white hand, and there
Lay three rich jewels, Oh more bright
Than e’er had met her mortal sight.
And ere she yet could understand
He laid them in her trembling hand.
“Study their beauty well’’ spake he,

[column 2]
"They are thine for all eternity."
Lo! by their light new life began,
New thoughts through all her being ran,
While ecstacy thrilled through her frame
The stranger gently spoke her name,
 And as she raised to him her eyes
Took from her hands the precious prize,
"The Father sent these but to show—
What ’waits you while through life you go,
Safe in the keeping of His love
They shall be yours again, above.’’
Nor artist’s power nor poet’s spell
The words he taught could keep or tell, 
They went beyond the things of earth
To where the mysteries have birth;
Teaching why wrong and sin should grow
They took from sorrow half its woe,
Why the soul's idols turn to clay
And God’s own gifts are drawn away,
And how, though thorns bestrewed her path
Her soul its guardian angel hath.

Then, when the holy guest was gone
A lesser light came, it was dawn.
Like one alone yet fearing not—
Silence—with sacred meaning fraught,
God’s blessing seemed so near her there, 
Life’s dullest burdens seemed no care,
For that sweet sense filled all her soul,
And lightened, strengthened blessed the whole.
Was this life zealot’s faith, ideal?
No, by His blessing this was real,
Stripped of the curse by childlike faith.
Earth wounds pain less, no trials scathe;
And while the mortal still endures,
Through deeper tests still strength assures;
Just as the heart of His own Son
Bore suff'ring ’till his time was done,
Not for wrong doing but to prove
The soul God guards, naught else can move.

The days went on and oft she thought
Of the bright gems the stranger brought.
Smiling to know their light should shine
Her own ’mid splendors all divine,
And strove that outward grace to win
Worthy the grace of soul within;
Yet only half their meaning knew—
That splendors cast their shadows too.

Heaven remembered her and gave
The gift her riven heart had craved,
A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
Their silent beauty almost speech,
Diviner truths and love to teach.
They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
Forgetting earth, where—downward leans
The Unseen—so close to the veil 
It almost touches spirits frail,
Worn faint with trial, 'til the breath
Through joy or woe—is kissed by death— 
And there her soul heard other things
Just as the blind feel passing wings!
So, day by day they lived until
Life seemed so fitted to God’s will;
And prayer the sceptre; ’neath its sway
Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

Day hath its end, its night; souls too,
Have lost their sun of  life from view;
No hands that lift, no voice that calls
But vainly on the darkness falls
Until His hour. However lost
In sorrow's wild, His love hath crossed
The trackless waste, He knoweth where
The mourner kneeleth in despair.
O, mourning mother! Not alone 
Thy riven heart in sorrow’s moan,
Not bitter only, is thy lot,
Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
No stain of earth had marred the name
Of that fair boy thy soul did claim,
No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
Too bright were they for these dull skies;
Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

Remember her that mother pure,
Who didst the agony endure

[column 3]
On Calvary’s hill thou know'st in part
The anguish of her sacred heart.
Thrice blessed is that home wherein
The shad'wy wing of death hath been;
Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
Now, each of these, lifted above
Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
Their witness to thy portion there
Where blessings past and present all
Upward ascending, ever call
The tireless sonl and wearied feet
With them before His throne to meet.

The sweetest voices earth hath known
Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan, 
And nearer sanctified are they,
Where grief hath washed in tears away
The idle thoughts of cloudless hours,
Forgetting how, for sins of ours
The only Sinless, bowed his head,
And worlds with Mary wept her dead.

Not wind and wave in furious storm,
Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
Not blighted by long suffering
Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
Death could not thrill him with alarms;
His last sweet words were unto thee,
Thine the last face his eyes could see,
Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
While the wide world still onward keeps 
It’s headlong course of pride and wrong,
Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
O! better in that little grave,
With mission ended, spirit saved.
				Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
South Bountiful, June 13, 1889.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs, Julia Ward Howe, at the Woman's
Congress, at Grand Rapids, will read a paper
on "Aliens in America."

	A lady (Miss Coffin) has been appointed
Assistant Superintendent of Schools in Detroit
Michigan.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony and Rev. Anna H.
Shaw addressed an immense crowd on Wo-
man's Day at the Western New York Agri-
cultural Fair at Rochester, Sept. 23.

	It is reported that there are only ten persons
in the State Penitentiary of Wyoming.
Wyoming is the only place where women have
had full suffrage for the last twenty-two
years.

	Miss Vinnie Hall, a young woman of twenty
is editor and publisher of the Edgely (N. D.)
Mail.  She began by learning to set type, and 
while at Aberdeen, S. D., she was a member 
of the Newspaper Union for two years and a 
half, being promoted to forewoman of the com-
posing room.

	Mrs. Therese A. Jenkins of Wyoming,
National Superintendent of Franchise, has
been invited to present to the National W. C.
T. U., at its coming convention in Boston, a
banner to represent the Franchise Depart-
ment.  This will be one of the most interest-
ing incidents of the convention.

	Miss Florence Balgarnie gave three lectures
in Detroit, Sept. 20, 21, and 22, to full houses.
Her subjects were "Women in Public Life,"
"The Modern Factory Girl as I knew her in 
East London," and "Ourselves and Our Great-
Grandmothers."  The second subject proved 
especially interesting to those who are studying
the labor question, and elicited many inquiries
and comments.  Miss Balgarnie won many
admirers among the ladies of Detroit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10, a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
  	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,  - OCTOBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]

		GENERAL SEMI-ANNUAL
			CONFERENCE.

	The Sixty-second semi-annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
convened in the large Tabernacle in this City at
10 a. m., October 4, 1891. President Wilford
Woodruff presiding. The First Presidency of
the Church Wilford Woodruff, Geo. Q. Cannon
and Joseph F. Smith were all present which was
a source of great Joy to the assembled multitude.
Of the Apostles,President Lorenzo Snow, Frank-
lin D. Richards, John H. Smith, H. J. Grant, F.
M. Lyman, John W. Taylor, M. W. Merrill,
Anton H. Lund, A. H. Cannon occnpied seats
upon the stand. The congregation was very
large and attentive and the teachings were im-
pressive and inspiring.
	In the afternoon the house was crowded in
every part and there was also an overflow
meeting in the Assembly Hall; the speakers there
were Apostles H. J. Grant and A. H. Lund,
Bishop O. F. Whitney and Elder B. H. Roberts.
In the Tabernacle Pres. L. Snow, Apostle F. D.
Richards and Pres. Woodruff addressed the peo-
ple. The sacrament was administered and the
services were altogether of a nature calculated
to impress the vast congregation assembled there
with that solemnity that should characterize de-
votional exercises upon the Sabbath day. Presi-
dent Woodruff especially spoke with great power
and intense earnestness that found a response in
the heart of every true saint of God.
	The Conference continued to be specially in-
teresting and instructive throughout but the last
day (Tuesday) was a time ever to be-remembered
in the history of the Church, because of the re-
markable power manifest in the eloquent dis-
cources delivered and also the steps taken to re-
fute the misrepresentations made in the Report
of the Utah Commission in regard to the position
of our people.
	A committee was appointed in the morning
session of the Conference to draft resolutions ex-
pressing the views of the people assembled in
Conference, upon misrepresentations made con-
cerning matters in this community. In the after-
noon these resolutions were formally presented.
	The following were read by Hon. John T.
Caine:
			COMMITTEE REPORT
MISREPRESENTATIONS OF THE UTAH COMMISSION
				DENOUNCED.
	President Wilford Woodruff and members
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in General Conference assembled:
	Brethren and Sisters.--Your committee ap-
pointed to formulate an expression of the Con-
ference relative to certain statements made by

[Column 2]

the majority of the Utah Commission in their re-
port to the Secretary of the Interior for the year
1891, beg leave to report the accompanying Pre-
amble and Resolutions, and recommend their
adoption by the Conference.
		Very respectfully,
		John Clark,
		W. H. Rowe,
		Chas. W. Penrose,
		John T. Caine,
		Franklin S. Richards,
Salt Lake City, Oct. 6, 1891.
	PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
 
	Whereas the Utah Commission, with one ex
ception, in their report to the Secretary of the
Interior for 1891, have made many untruthful
statements concerning the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the attitude of its mem-
bers in relation to political affairs; and,
	Whereas, said report is an official document
and is likely to greatly prejudice people of the
nation against our Church and its members, and
it is therefore unwise to allow its erroneous state-
ments to pass unnoticed.
	Now therefore be it resolved by the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints in General Con-
ference assembled, that we deny most emphati-
cally the assertions of the Commission that the
Church dominates its members in political mat-
ters and that Church and State are united.
Whatever appearance there may have been in past
times of a union of Church and State, because
men holding ecclesiastical authority were elected
to civil office by popular vote, there is now no
foundation or excuse for the statement that
Church and State are united in Utah or that the
leaders of the Church dictate the members in
political matters; that no coercion or influence
whatever of an ecclesiastical nature has been ex-
ercised over us by our Church leaders in refer-
ence to which politcal party we shall join, and
that we have been and are perfectly free to unite
with any or no political party as we may individu-
ally elect; that the People’s Party has been en-
tirely and finally dissolved and that our fealty
henceforth will be to such national political party
as seems to us best suited to the purposes of Re-
publican government.
	Also, be it resolved that we do not believe
there have been any polygamous marriages
solemnized among the Latter-day Saints during
the period named by the Utah Commission; and
we denounce the statements which convey the
idea that such marriages have been contracted as
false and misleading, and that we protest against
the perversions of fact and principle and intent
contained in the report of the Commission, and
declare that the manifesto of President Woodruff
forbidding future plural marriages was adopted
at the last October Conference in all sincerity
and faith, and that we have every reason to be-
lieve that it has been carried out in letter and in
spirit; and all statements to the contrary are en-
tirely destitute of truth.
	And be it further resolved, That we appeal to
the press and people of this country to accept our
united declaration and protest, to give it publicity
and to aid in disseminating the truth, that false-
hood may be refuted and justice be done to, a
people continually maligned and almost univers-
ally misunderstood. And may God defend the
right.
	The preamble and resolutions were unani-
mously adopted by raising the right hand and
shouting aye.

Hon. John T. Caine read the following

DECLARATION  BY THE FIRST PRESIDENCY OF
			THE CHURCH.

	Concerning the official report of the Utah Com-
mission made to the Secretary of the Interior, in

[Column 3]

which they allege, "During the past year, not-
withstanding the 'manifesto,’ reports have been
received by the Commission of eighteen male per-
sons who, with an equal number of females, are
believed to have entered into polygamous marri-
ages, during the year,” we have to say, it is ut-
terly without foundation in truth. We repeat in
the most solemn manner the declaration made by
President Wilford Woodruff at our General Con-
ference held last October, that there have been
no plural marriages solemnized during the period
named.
	Polygamy or plural marriage has not been
taught, neither has there been given permission
to any person to enter into its practice, but on the
contrary, it has been strictly forbidden. 
						WILFORD WOODRUFF,
						GEORGE Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.

	Apostle Moses Thatcher moved that we receive
endorse and adopt as true the statement of the
Presidency. Unanimously adopted.
	The Authorities of the Church were presented 
and unanimously sustained by the Conference,
Elder Jacob Gates, Patriarch Lorenzo Young,
and President Geo. Q. Cannon addressed the
congregation and closing remarks were made by 
		PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	Before dismissing this Conference I want to say
that to me it has been the most interesting I have
ever attended,I have never bdfore seen the Latter-
day Saints as ready as on this occasion to spend
the same number of days together in listening to
the teachings and counsels of the servants of God. 
The Lord has said:“Whomsoever ye bless shall be
blessed and whomsoever ye curse shall be cursed.”
I never cursed anybody in my life,and I do not feel
like doing so now, for my heart is full of blessings
to the Latter-day Saints, to my Counselors, to the
twelve Apostles, to the Seventies, to the High
Priests, to the Elders, Teachers and Deacons, to
the Lower Priesthood—all our brethren and
sisters throughout the Church.
	I entertain the same sentiments as have been
expressed here by President Cannon toward those 
who are not of us religiously. There is a feeling
of friendliness toward us, I think, in these valleys
on the part of those outside of this Church; they
seem to feel in their hearts to give us those rights
and privileges which belong to us, under the laws
of God and man. Some of the judges have been
ready to receive our testimoy, our manifestoes
and have seen fit to give and administer righteous
judgment. All such men have my blessing and
prayers, and confidence. I feel that God will
bless them and all who perform their duties with
clemency in righteousness toward their fellow
men.
	The choir sang:
			Let the hills resound with song.
	The benediction was pronounced by President
Woodruff.
	Adjourned till April, 1892.
	The Conference was exceedingly interesting
throughout, and if the spirit of the teaching is
diffused throughout the valleys of the mountains
and the instructions carried out,great good to all
Israel will be the result, and faith and integrity be
increased among the people.


[Column 1]

	Prayer was offered by Counselor B. W. Smith.
Continued by singing,

"School thy feelings, O, my brother, &c."

	Sister Zina D. H. Young remarked when giv-
ing out the hymn, that in this case it should be
"School thy feelings O, my sister. A synopsis of
the minutes of the last April Conference were
read by E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y., and accepted
by the assembly. Pres. Zina D. H. Young wel-
comed the congregation in the most kindly man-
ner and spoke a few words suggestive of what
was expected of the Relief Society. She then
called upon the Presidents of Stake organizations
to make brief reports not to exceed five minutes
each. Pres. Anna Ivins, St. George Stake was
the first speaker, thought the sisters were doing
well and had good desires though the attendance
was not so good as it ought to be, they had not
many poor; the settlements in their stake re-
quired much time to visit on account of  long
distances.
	Pres. Lydia Rich, Morgan Stake, gave a good
report, some sisters were ever ready in all good
works, they hold conferences quarterly and an-
nual meetings in each branch, felt they were do-
ing a good work.
	Pres. Temperance Hinckley, Bannock Stake
had visited this year and thought in that new
country they were improving, realized the import-
ance of the labor.
	Pres. Julia Lindsay, Bear Lake Stake made an
excellent report of what had been accomplished
there, and mentioned that the new region of Star
Valley which was included in their Stake was a
long way off yet had not been neglected.
	Pres. Harriet Bunting, Kanab Stake spoke of
the long distance they were away from the lead-
ing sisters, and  of the many reverses they had
experienced in the way of floods, that had
washed away their dams and improvements, and
the great changes these ravages had made, water
that used to be on the surface was now a hun-
dred feet deep". You may ask how the people
there maintain themselves, the sheep and stock
ranges are the principal resources. We call Long
Valley our Egypt; we go there for our grain. In
Orderville the sisters meet every third Thursday
in a Fast and Prayer meeting, they are 125 miles
from us. We feel that if we are poor in this
world's goods, we are rich in spirit."
	Pres. Barbara Myers, Panguitch Stake, "we
have twelve branches, our stake reaches over 200
miles there is one part where it would not be wis-
dom for us to travel without some of the brethren
we are trying to do the best we can and visit as
often as is practicable, we feel strong in testi-
mony."
	Pres. Susan Grant, Davis Stake, "we hold
quarterly conference, our brethren attend and are
of great assistance to us," &c.
	Coun. M. J. Hammond, San Juan Stake, said
we live four hundred miles away, we labor under
many disadvantages; we have this year met with
a great loss in the death of our President, Sister
Jane M. Walton.
	E. B. Wells read a letter from President Will-
mirth East, St. Joseph Stake, which was very in-
teresting  and stated that letters had been received
from Wasatch, Emery and Maricopa Stakes and
also made some brief explanations upon other
matters.
	Counselor Sage Jones, Parowan Stake, stated
that they were in a prosperous condition this
year had a great deal of grain and other things,
and bore a strong testimony, thought power was
increasing, &c.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake, was glad to
hear from all over this Territory and from other
Territories; since dividing Nephi into two wards
the Relief Society had increased in numbers, re-
joiced in her labors, held quarterly conferences,
and generally visited quarterly except Eureka
which was some distance away.

[Column 2]

	Pres. Adeline Barber, Cache Stake, we have
22 or 23 branches to visit; hold two conferences
a year, we try to hold district conferences or
meetings in remote parts of the Stake; those
who have had grain laid up have done good with
it; in the settlements they mostly have bins or
granaries. The Apostles visit the Stake with
us and Brother George Thatcher lets the sisters
who have not a place to store their grain have a
place in his mill, and will give it back bushel for
bushel when we want it. Excused the secretary
not having a written report on account of sick-
ness; spoke earnestly of the work for the dead.
	Pres. Olivia Widerborg, Box Elder Stake, the
President introduced her by saying she suc-
ceeded Harriet Snow who had often stood here
in her majesty, her husband's testimony on her
death bed was that she"had been faithful and true
in all thingsr" Sister Widerborg gave a good
report of the Stake etc., and spoke of the society
of Scandinavians, who had an emigration fund of
their own and had sent means and brought 42
poor sisters from the old country; said "we have
an excellent fire proof granary; and a good lot of
grain stored in it in good condition. We all feel
it is good to serve God, He has planted for us
the pearl of great price, may we all live for it."
	Counselor Jane S. Richards, President Relief
Society Weber Stake, said she was thankful for
the opportunity of coming to this Conference;
she had been all through the Conference in spirit
if not in body; "the duty of the Relief Society is
to take care of the sick and if the sick are in our
own house it is as much our duty to take care of
them." Spoke of her acquaintance with Sister
Hammond and many others of the good sisters
from a distance that had spoken during the morn-
ing; commended the brethren who had shown
her so much honor wherever she had traveled,
and in the Stake where she presided, said there is
no jealousy with us, no want of holding offices,
they are all humble; was sorry there was any
Stake where they couldn't hold conferences four
times a year, as that was President Young's
counsel and President Taylor and President
Woodruff had never said to the contrary; had
visited a number of the Stakes, every where the
brethren were kind and good; wanted to men-
tion Cassia Stake, "Sister Zina and myself went
to Kelton by train and the President of the Stake
came there to meet us; it took him two days to
come and two to return; we went with him to
Oakley where the Conference was held, traveled
there one way and came back again another way
in order to meet with the different branches of
the Society that are isolated, and we rejoiced in
the good feeling and spirit that prevailed. Presi-
dent Haight accompanied us upon our journey,
and we had an excellent time.
	President M. I Horne, Salt Lake Stake, felt
happy and pleased to hear those who came from
a distance, felt they were worthy to stand in the
positions they occupied, "example is more than
precept," the teachers in the Society should have
the spirit of God with them to comfort, encourage
and bless those whom they visit; she was glad
the Lord inspired Joseph the prophet to organize
the Relief Society; advised the sisters to hold
annual meetings, knew the results to be good;
the people will come to an annual meeting when
they could not come to regular meetings; the
sisters who are not in the Society make a grand
mistake in not becoming members; if mothers
are full of the spirit of God they will impart it to
their families, "I'm proud to say our sisters here
in this Stake are doing well, we have assisted in
emigrating some families;" made other excellent
remarks.
	Sister Louissa Jones, Sec. R. S. Beaver Stake,
said they had many calls made upon them, there
had been much sickness this season; they held
quarterly conferences, and annual meetings; we
have good times and the sisters generally are

[Column 3]

faithful and true as the sun, some who have their
names enrolled never come to a meeting, and
others never join, but there are always the few
who are on hand.
	Coun. Elizabeth B. Mitchell, R. S, Uintah
Stake, said their President was not present but
she gave a good report of the condition of that
scattered place; such a long distance away and
so far to travel that but few could come; they
were trying to keep up with the times and attend
to every duty.
	Coun. Marilla M. Daniels, R. S. Utah Stake,
said she had not expected to represent the Stake,
had been away in Manti, working in the Temple
for the dead, but knew that Pleasant Valley and
some other branches fartherest off had been
visited; had rejoiced during the Conference, there
was such an outpouring of the spirit of God in
our hearts; when the sisters can come from such
a long distance I feel that we are a host in our-
selves.
	Sister Horne gave a report of Sevier Stake
where she had visited and attended the Sisters
Conference,the sisters then were just starting out
on their regular visit up into the mountains.
	Pres. M. J. Atwood, R. S. Summit Stake spoke
of their branches in Wyoming, and that Pres.
Cluff went with them to visit there; last year
Sister Howard went and visited all the branches
with them, said they had emigrated some of the
poor with their means. "We have had several
Fairs and in this way raised money; have con-
tributed, $3,000 to the Stake Tabernacle, also
bought the pillars for the Tabernacle; the Y. L.
have helped some."
	Sister Eliza Whicker reported Millard Stake,
said their President was detained at home on ac-
count of sickness, at the last Conference they
had a very good time, all the branches had been
visited.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt Assistant Secretary read the
totals of the full report of the Relief Society.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke tenderly in re-
membrance of Sister Eliza, her presence, and her
nobility, her great mind and grand work and said
when Pres. Woodruff says "go ahead and do as
you have done and as Sister Eliza did there
ought not to be a corner in the Territory where
there should be a wedge to break the union of
the sisters. Who are the mothers, who are to
train the statesmen; the mothers! Geo. Q.
Cannon was an orphan, he promised his mother
he would never taste liquor and he never has;
 emember this mothers, the training of a child
when young. To the mothers who are left alone
my heart goes out in pity to them, gather your
children around you, teach them, tell them Bible
stories, I've had seven of them on the bed at once
in the morning telling them stories out of the
Bible, true stories,and they would say "mother is
that true?" think of the impression, plant the
seeds of truth in them. We've got revelation
from heaven in our books, and a book hid in the
bowels of the earth,to come forth for us. Can we
come together too often? a book of remembrance
was kept of those who spoke often one to another.
Teach our daughters to pray and read the Scrip-
tures. Bishop Whitney spoke beautifully of
mothers administering; what it would save the
Elders; I wish you could all have heard him.
Humility and Obedience should be the watch-
words of the daughters of Zion. If I should never
speak to you again, remember your duties. O
how many there are who would give anything to
have some one say a comforting word to help
them.
	The saving of wheat is an important mat-
ter. When there is an organization and the Presi-
dent is chosen she should have something to say
in reference to her Counselors. Sisters when
you attend your meetings you do your work better
than when you neglect them; never speak ill of
your husbands or of the authorities of the Church;


it weakens our energies, weakens our power; the
Spirit of God makes this manifest in our hearts.
May you all take home a double interest in the
work of God. Sister Zina also spoke of the
necessity of sustaining the Hospital and also the
EXPONENT, thought agents should act efficiently
and see that we sustain our own paper, a circula-
ting medium, our only organ for the Relief
Society; felt she had much to say but was tres-
passing upon the time. Adjourned for six months.
Singing,

"O, my Father Thou that dwellest," &c.

	Benediction by Counselor B. W. Smith.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The Third Semi-annual Conference was held
in the S. L. Assembly Hall in this City, Tuesday
Oct. 7, 1891, commencing at 10 a. m., Pres.
Zina D. H. Young presiding. Conference opened
with singing,

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, &c."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE ANNUAL TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The annual Fair which closed on the 9th of this
month made a creditable showing of Utah pro-
ducts, manufactures etc., cattle, horses; and the
poultry of various kinds was remarkably fine,
and many awards were made to the producers,
and the stock raisers. All these departments
were well and carefully represented as also the
horticultural and flori-cultural departments, and
those interested in this work who carried off
prizes and premiums will no doubt make a more
successful showing another year, and others will
be stimulated to compete in excellence.
	The Art department consisting of painting,
drawing, etc., was to the writer the most attrac-
tive though perhaps not the most useful to the
Territory at large; the sculpture by Utah artists
deserves special mention, as it has been less cul-
tivated than some other branches; but Utah is
very proud of those who have attempted this
branch of work, and the representation of the
immense statue which is to be used on the cap-
stone of the East tower of the Temple, is indeed
a work of art and considering the subject and the
interest attached thereto by this people, one must
naturally feel that it should be perfection in every
detail. The statue of Brigham Young was as
true to life as any model of the kind could be and
that of Wilford Woodruff gives people an oppor-
tunity to judge for themselves whether it is like
the man himself. Surely there are young men
and women in Utah who should distinguish them-
selves in this line of artistic work. C. E. Dallin
should not carry off all the honors in the years to
come although today he stands at the head and
almost alone in this particular line of sculpture.
	In painting and drawing there were many clever
rivals, and the variety of pictures, sketches, portraits
landscapes, etc., were well worth a longer time
for exhibition. In fact one can scarcely do justice
to such a showing without being a veritable
connoisseur. It is supposable that the judges in
this department were, or at any rate they should
be thoroughly well qualified.
	The Educational department was not by any
means what it ought to have been for Utah, though
the showing of the Agricultural college at Logan
deserved praise, as also some others, Ogden
schools for instance, the Salt Lake schools as a
whole, and some work in particular, but to our
certain knowledge, much more could have been
done in this direction to good advantage.
	In the department of Woman's Work every-
thing seemed too crowded to show to advantage,
and it would be better in our humble opinion to
accord a little more room at another time; this
may seem selfish but being interested in the Utah
exhibit for the Chicago World's Fair in 1893—
we would have been glad to have seen more
showing of rare and tasteful work at the Utah
Fair; because we are sure there are many such
specimens of woman's work that  might have been
on exhibition.
	At another time we shall have more to say in
regard to both the Utah Exposition and the
World's Fair.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.,
REPORTS.

	COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTER:
	We have been very remiss in sending re-
ports of our Primary Association partly
through ignorance, not knowing where to send
to. Then again we have been considerably
out of doors, so to speak, here in our new
settlements of Mexico. As you are aware the
first public building erected is a school house.
Before we had such a building, we had a
school and a Primary Association and we met
under the trees. The Diaz ward Primary
Association was organized on the 4th day of
November 1886 by Apostle George Teasdale;
and since then we have held weekly meetings.
Our first organization was as follows, Sister
Nora Savage, President; with Teressa Leavitt,
1st and Domer Johnson, 2nd Counselors; Irena
Richardson, Secretary; Hannah Mortensen,
Assistant; and Maria Mortensen, Treasurer;
and about 39 members. In 1888 we had a
reorganization, and the following named sisters
were the officers—Teressa Leavitt, President;
with Sarah Gale as 1st and Domar Adams
2nd Counselors; Hannah Mortensen, Secretary;
Herra Johnson, Assistant, and Mary Ander-
son Treasurer, with about 90 members. In
May 1889 we were again reorganized with
Sister Sarah A. Gale, President; Nellie Gru-
well 1st and Roxy Wilson 2nd Counselors;
Millie Gruwell, Secretary; Lizzie Jorgensen,
Assistant; and Lizzie Mortensen, Treasurer;
and this is our organization today, with 147
members enrolled. We have held three fairs
which were very successful in point of de-
veloping the talents of the children, surpris-
ing for a new country. Our average attend-
ance is 75. Our programmes consist of reci-
tations, readings, dialogues, questions and
answers, testimonies, speeches and songs. The
funds we receive are used for the purchase of
necessary books, stationery and contributions,
having lately donated a handsome quilt to-
wards the building of our Academy.
	We send you these few items thinking per-
haps you might deem them worthy of a place
in the valuable columns of the EXPONENT,
which we regard as an important record of
all such events. For the future we purpose
sending proper semi-annual reports.
	Your sisters in the cause of truth.
			SARAH A. GALE, Pres.
			MILLIE GRUWELL, Sec.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co., convened in
the 13th ward Assembly Rooms, Sep. 15 1891,
Pres. Elizabeth Howard in the chair. After
prayer was offered by Elizabeth Price, Mary
A. Freeze by request of the Pres. made a brief
speech in which she said that one of our
brethren had immortalized his name in her
estimation, by giving it as his opinion that a
husband and wife should constitute a firm
from which neither should draw funds without
the consent of the other. She believed also
in women jurors, and legislators, and thought
when the time came that woman should serve
in those positions, there would be a vast differ-
ence in the laws, and that the change would
be beneficial. Spoke in glowing terms of
praise of the noble women in the world, who
were in many respects, themselves blest with
happy homes, and surrounded with comfort,
but had raised their voices in behalf of all
womankind, and that we should accept with
grateful hearts, the benefits derived from their
untiring devotion to the cause of universal
suffrage.


Ardella W. Eardley read the first article of
the Consitution of the U. S.
	Margaret A. Caine read some extracts, and
Emily S. Richards read an excellent essay on
Democracy.
	Sarah M. Kimball said she had been much
interested in Mrs. Richard's very able article
on Democracy, but if either party soould offer
Woman Suffrage, and not advocate principles
which would be for the good of the nation, she
would not join that party. Her politics were,
police matrons, insane asylum matrons, women
superintendents of reform schools, and women
legislators. Said there were perhaps some wo-
men, who could work only in a very limited
sphere, if so let them work in that sphere, but
others could benefit society by their public
labors, and had the capacity to do so, let them
do it, all men had not the ability to perform
public duties, no more than all women, let
each one do all in their power for the good of
all. Said there would be a Convention held
next month, and thought that we would be
surprised to see the progress that had been
made in this work.
	The minutes of the last meeting were read
and approved. Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read an
article on Suffrage, by Ellen Jakeman. Pres.
Howard expressed her pleasure in the exercises
of the meeting, and announced that the meet-
ing was adjourned until the third Tuesday in
Oct. at the same time and place.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.


UTAH W. S. A.

	An executive session of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association was held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly rooms October 3rd, at
ten o'clock. Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie chair-
man.
	Mrs. Howard was appointed chaplain and
opened the meeting with prayer. The minutes
of the executive meeting held April 3rd, were
read and adopted.
	A compilation of the national and territorial
by-laws designed to govern the Utah associa-
tions were read and discussed by sections and
adopted as printed below. The duties of
honorary vice presidents were defined, on sug-
gestion of Maria Y. Dougall. The nomination
of territorial officers was held with the follow-
ing result; President, Sarah M. Kimball; Sec-
retary, Ada Croxall; Cor. Sec., Julia Taplor;
Ass't. Cor. Sec., Nellie Little; Treasurer,
Margery Dwyer; Auditor Dr. E. S. Barney;
Chairman Ex. Com., Phebe Y. Beatie; vice-
presidents; First, Emily Richards; second
Ann Groesbeck; third, Caroline Dye; Emmeline
B. Wells, chairman publishing committee.
	The following are the names of the Terri-
torial honorary vice-presidents, whose duties
and privileges are defined by the constitution:
Zina D. Young, Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba
Smith, M. Isabella Horne, Emmeline B. Wells,
Elmina S. Taylor, Mary A. Freeze, Maria Y.
Dougall, Emily H. Woodmansee, Augusta J.
Crocheron, Ellen Jakeman, Lula G. Richards,
Mrs. Haymond.

	The Territorial Woman Suffrage Convention
convened Oct. 3rd, 1891, at 2 p. m., in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms of Salt Lake
City. The hall was decorated with stars and
stripes and above the stand hung two large
portraits of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan
B. Anthony.
	Pres. Sarah M. Kimball presided. The
Convention was opened by prayer, offered by
Zina D. H. Young.
	M. A. Y. Greenhalgh was elected temporary
chairman while the Territorial officers who
were nominated in the Executive Session were
placed before the Convention. They were
then confirmed.


[Column 1]

	Sarah M. Kimball having been unanimously
sustained as President, again resumed her
position and also made a few remarks.
	The revised Constitution was read by Emily
Richards.

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.
	Article I. This Association shall be called
the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah, and
the officers and delegates shall pay an initia-
tion fee of 50 cents.
	Article II. The object of this Association
shall be to work for the enfranchisement of all
women without regard to party, sect or creed,
and to take such steps from time to time as
shall be wise and expedient for the political
advancement of woman.
	Article III. Sec. 1. The officers of this
Association shall be a president, three vice-
presidents, a secretary, corresponding secretary
and treasurer, with an executive committee of
not less than five, and two auditors. The
officers named in this section shall be nomi-
nated at the business session preceding the
annual convention. The three persons receiv-
ing the highest number of votes for any office
shall be considered the nominees of said con-
vention for such office.
	Sec. 2. The officers of this Association
with the executive committee shall elect an-
nually from the veterans of the cause, hon-
orary vice-presidents, who shall have all the
privileges of other vice-presidents, and whose
duty it shall be to advance the cause.
	Artical IV.—Sec. 1. the officers of this
association with the executive committee shall
have power to change, or amend the by-laws
and regulations at an executive session, and
such changes or amendment, shall be submitted
at the regular meeting where they may be
adopted by a majority vote.
	Sec. 2. They shall also devise plans of
work suited to the development and progress
of the association, and encourage young people
to speak, write essays, and discuss questions
upon political matters and civil government
and such other subjects as relate thereto.
	Article V.—Sec. 1. All county associa-
tions organized throughout Utah may become
auxiliary to this association by adopting this
constitution and that of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association, and paying
annually their percentage specified in the basis
of representation.
	Sec. 2. The president of such association shall
be considered a vice president of the Utah Wo-
man Suffrage Association, and will be expected
to attend conventions, report progress, have a
voice in electing of officers, and entitled to all
the privileges pertaining thereto.
	Article VI. The names of the delegates to
the annual convention of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association at Washing-
ton shall be nominated at the executive sessions
of the association, and be presented to the
annual convention, where they shall be elected
by a formal vote.
	Article VII.—All official papers and docu-
ments shall be signed by the President and
Secretary, or in the absence of the President
the Vice-President next in order. All official
correspondence must be signed by the chair-
man of the executive committee, or the presi-
dent and corresponding secretary.

BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Sec. 1. To comply with the constitution of
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation and that of the Utah Association in
Article Five (5) ten cents per member is re-
quired to become auxiliary to the Utah Wo-
man Suffrage Association, and ten cents to be
forwarded to the National American Woman
Suffrage Association at Washington.
	Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of the treasurer
of each auxiliary association to send to the

[Column 2]

treasurer of the Utah Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation at Salt Lake City, a list certified to by
its recording secretary of the members of said
organization, with their annual percentage be-
fore October 1st of each year.
	Sec. 3. The corresponding secretary shall
send to the auxiliary association notice before-
hand to prepare a report of work done by said
auxiliary, and a notice of the necessity that
said auxiliary shall send this and lists of
names and addresses of members to the treas-
urer of the Utah Woman Suffrage Association
before Otober 1st.
	Sec. 4. All officers of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association shall be ex-officio dele-
gates at large, and every such officer shall be
entitled to vote in all business meetings of
county associations.
	The officers of this association with the ex-
ecutive board and chairman of the publishing
committee, shall constitute a standing com-
mittee to transact all business, and shall also
fill any vacancy that may occur in itself dur-
ing the interim of annual meetings.
	Adjourned till 2 p. m., to meet in con-
vention.

	The Woman Suffrage Association met at 2
o'clock October 3rd at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall according to adjournment.
	The minutes of the previous Convention held
in April 1891, were read and accepted.
	Reports being called for from the delegates
from the different counties, Elizabeth Howard
of Salt Lake County was the first to respond.
She stated that nearly two hundred members
were enrolled but that only a small portion of
them attended the meetings regularly also that
those few had given very efficient help.
	Joanna Patten of Utah County said there
were many good organizations in that county,
that two meetings were held per month at
which the Constitution of U. S. was studied.
	Mrs. Stanford of Weber County reported
that there were over two hundred members in
that county and that interesting meetings were
held all summer. Victor Hugo had said that
the nineteenth Century was the century for
women and she also felt confident the time
would soon come when women would be at
the front.
	Millard County was represented by M. A.
Y. Greenhalgh. Although it was but a small
county the members numbered over 300 peo-
ple, and there were local associations in all
the settlements except two. Spoke of the
efficient help given, not only by women but
men also, in sending her as delegate to Wash-
ington.
	Lucy A. Clark of Davis County said there
were four associations there and more to be
taken up. As in other counties they had
been making a study of Civil Government.
	Ellen Jakeman of Sanpete County although
not a delegate from there, gave some informa-
tion concerning the associations there.
	Morgan County was reported upon by E. C.
E. Francis. That being the smallest county
and the people very scattered, it was rather a
difficult matter to get the ladies together but
meetings were held quarterly in Morgan City.
	Emily Richards having been requested to
speak on the World's Fair, did so and ex-
horted those present to use their influence in
getting their sisters to send their best work.
Was too  much of a suffragist to pass by that
therefore she spoke a few words on
Woman Suffrage.
	Pres. Kimball also spoke a short time on
the World's Fair.
	On motion the Convention was adjourned
"sine die."
			ADA CROXALL, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A preacher with the big head is a man the
devil loves to look at.


THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The "railroad beds" are still unmade.
(A "railroad bed" is one that is unoccupied
during the day, and therefore as it were,
"shunted" and only rolled out at night. They
stand close together in the middle of the ward.)
Occasionally we have a convalescent patient
who can do this part of the work very well.
We had one in this ward last week, but alas,
for the frailty of human nature, she showed
a disposition to quarrel with the other patients
on very small pretexts, so she was dismissed.
With a rueful thought of what might have
been, I go to work at the beds. A patient
goes ahead and strips them for me. We work
with all our might, and they are finished at
ten minutes past nine. The side beds, too,
are nearly finished. This part of the work
necessarily takes much longer, as sick patients
have to be placed in chairs and wrapped up
in blankets, or, if they are too weak, lifted
into other beds, so that their own can be 
made.
	My next work is to take morning tempera-
tures; when I have finished this I see a large
tin can standing near my table. It contains
crackers, butter, eggs, and sugar. These
have to be put away in their proper place,
and the quantity noted. Now, I must write
my diet-sheet, and order the supplies necessary
for to-morrow. It is twenty-five minutes past
nine, the beds are all made, the stands in
order, the floor swept, and the table scrubbed.
The junior nurses are obout through with
washing faces and combing heads, and it is
now high time that I should make a round of
the ward and find out if there is any change in
the patients' condition to which the doctor's
attention should be called.
	While this has been going on the gruel and
milk have been standing on the table, and the
distribution of this falls to my share to-day
also, as I have no senior nurse. Each bed-
patient who cares for it is served with a
portion on a tray; afterward the walking
patients seat themselves at the table and take
theirs. Now the doctors come in to make
their morning visit, the house doctor is told of
any special complaints; he examines these
patients, also any new ones who may not
yet be under treatment, and leaves the new 
orders on my book.
	While doing this work all morning, I have
been trying to keep an eye on what my helpers
are doing, and now take this time to make a
thorough inspection of all parts of the ward,
bath-room included. In the meantime the
special diet has been divided among the
patients needing it most. At eleven o'clock
tonics are given out, afterwards eggnogs and
milk-punches are made and distributed.
	We now begin to breathe freely—the worst
pressure is over if we get no new patient.
Our hopes along that line are doomed to
disappointment, for the helpers from the
woman's bath-room now announce the arrival
of two new patients, and Miss W. disappears
to superintend their bathing.
	I am congratulating myself on not having a
"stretcher case" at any rate, when two men
come in with one. Miss A. quickly places
screens round a bed, and a rubber sheet over
the clean bedclothes. The woman is lifted on
the bed and her temperature, pulse etc. taken.
Her own clothes are soon removed, and a
warm sponge-bath given and hair combed.
These operations have effected a wonderful
change in her appearance, and she now looks
a little more like a Caucasian, whereas, be-
fore the bath, she might have belonged to
one of the darker races of mankind.
	The doctor is notified that there are three
new patients in the ward. It is twelve


[Column 1]

o'clock; Miss A. and I go to dinner, and leave
Miss W. to superintend the patients meal,
and give out medicines afterward. We return
at one o'clock, and Miss W. goes, with the
right to remain off duty till four o'clock.
	The ward is now to be swept again and
put in order for the afternoon. This is
hardly accomplished when two huge bundles
of clothes are carried in, and in ten minntes
time two more. These have to be sorted
and counted. Before we proceed to the fold-
ing of them the afternoon milk and other
extras are given out. That done and the
table cleared, we fold the clothes as quickly
as we can. In due time this is finished, Miss
A. is making a poultice in the bath-room,
and I am putting the clothes in the closet,
when some one calls "Nurse, nurse!" I turn
to see where the sound comes from, and
notice several patients pointing to a bed in
the far corner of the ward. I hurry down
and find the patient's clothes saturated with
blood—a hemorrhage from the lungs. Screens
are immediately placed round the bed, cracked
ice given, and the doctor summoned. He
comes at once, the flow of blood seems to
have ceased, medicine is ordered, and the
doctor goes. The patient's clothes are now
changed very carefully, and she is made as
comfortable as possible. The screens are
just put away when another stretcher is
brought in, and Miss W. who has now re-
turned gives the usual treament.
	It is time for the afternoon tonics, and
eggnogs and punches are again distributed;
after this I take advantage of a few spare
minutes to enter the names and addresses of
patients in a book kept for the purpose.
Discharged patients are also marked off
	The patients have supper between half-
past four and five. At half-past five Miss A.
retires from the ward, the remaining time till
half-past seven being hers to rest.  In the 
meantime the doctor has been in and left a few
orders.
	The giving out of the evening medicines
falls to me, while Miss W. attends to the
patients' needs in other ways. If I had a
fourth nurse I might be relieved from duty;
but it cannot be thought of now. This is
the evening for carbolizing the side beds; the
helpers do this, while we follow and restore
things to order. The rest of the time till
half-past seven is spent in making patients
comfortable for the night, and writing down
new orders and notes on the patients' condi-
tion for the night nurse. We are quite
willing to deliver her the keys when she
comes in, and bid her good-night, while we
go home tired enough to sleep soundly."
	Charity Hospital, as I have said, has chiefly
chronic cases. The work in the accident or
emergency hospitals is somewhat different, as
will be seen by the following notes:
	Leaving the Island at 7  A. M., after
three quarters of an hour's ride in boat and
car, I reach Gouverneur Hospital. On my
arrival I receive from the night nurse both a
verbal and written account of all that has
happened of importance during the night—
arrival of new patients, serious symptons
which may have developed in certain cases,
new orders which have been given by the
doctor, or old ones which may have been
countermanded, etc.
	Then begins the work of the day. The
ward is thoroughly scrutinized, to discover
little things which the helpers are apt to do
slightingly, or not to do at all, stands are
dusted, clean covers and curtains put on; if
necessary; every patient and bed must under-
go thorough inspection.
	Everything is done as quickly as possible,
for the "visiting" may be looked for at any
time after 9 A. M., and it is the ambition of
each nurse to have her ward spotlessly clean.

[Column 2]

	I have six pneumonia cases, who are
poulticed regularly every three hours; they
are also kept on milk diet, and, of course,
require particular attention. I have just
finished putting on the last poultice when
the "visiting" comes in, followed by the
house surgeons, senior and junior. I ac-
company them to the different beds, ready to
receive all orders, and impart any information
which may be required of me. During the
rounds of the physicians, an ambulance call is
given; in due time the man is carried in on
a stretcher; I rush to prepare a bed, which
consists in turning down the covers, and
protecting the whole with a rubber sheet;
with the assistance of one of the helpers the
patient is placed in bed. It proves to be a
poisoning case. As quick as possible I get
ready pitchers of tepid water, a pail, and a
stomach-pump. The doctor then begins his
operations, and I stand near to assist him.
If the patient is very weak, I administer
stimulants hypodermically; an emetic is given.
Fortunately, the case has been attended to in
time, and is soon out of all immediate danger,
although very weak. A little boy has been
brought in with hand and wrist literally
pulverized; the poor little fellow's cries are 
heartrending; an anaesthetic is administered, I
carefully sponge the blood away from the
injured parts, get ready the different solutions,
gauzes, bandages, splints, etc., and stand
near to assist in any way that I can. (I took
care of the little boy for six weeks after that,
and he was seut home cured, having lost but
two fingers.)
	Standing by waiting his turn, is a stone-
cutter. He must have taken his thumb for a
stone, for he has simply hammered it off. The
compression of his lips and the pallor of his
face give evidence of the pain he is suffering.
A thin piece of skin on one side keeps the
thumb from being entirely severed from the
hand; the doctor replaces it and sews it on,
but eventually to save the hand it has to be
amputated.
	Fortunately there are no more accident
cases on hand and I am free once more to
attend to my other patients. I give out the
three-hour medicines, renew my poultices, and
take the temperature, pulse, and respiration
of the patient that came in about an hour
ago; but finding his temperature normal, I
let him remain seated until the doctor
comes in.
	After dinner I give out the noon medicines,
examine the beds of the helpless patients, and
find out from them if there is anything I can
do to add to their comfort. After attending
to their wants, and performing numberless
duties which it would be impossible for me
to relate, I finally feel satisfied that every
patient was comfortable; then I tear up
bandages, which are given to the convalescent
patients to roll; prepare solutions and different
kinds of gauzes to be used during operations;
in the meantime keeping a watchful eye on
all around, so that no patient shall suffer
from want of attention.
	About 4 P. M. I have to take the tempera-
ture, pulse, and respiration of each patient,
which, in  a ward where there are twenty,
takes quite a length of time. After the
temperatures are taken I see that each patient
has his supper, then write an account of all the
orders I have received, which are to be con-
tinued during the night, renew the poultices,
give out the medicines, see that the ward is
in perfect order, and am relieved at 6 P. M. by
the night nurse."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A man has no more right to say an uncivil
thing than to act one; no more right to say a
rude thing to another than to hnock him down.
Johnson.


Liberality consists not so much in giving a
great deal, as in giving seasonably.—Bruyere.
	Better is a dinner of herbs where love is
than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.—Solo-
mon.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence another class in
Obstetrics and Nursing,
on
Monday, Octobor 19th, 1891,
AT HER OFFICE,
No. 18 S. MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
THE  WOMAN’S  TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, SI.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building ,
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping don[-] to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST ST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre. 
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies,
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found th[-] latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

