VOL. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, AND FEBRUARY 1, 1892. NO. 14.


CONTENTS.
	Rights of Wives and Husbands—R. M. F.    In
Rural England—A Story.    Sunday School for
the Deaf—H. C. B.    Birthday of a Veteran. A
Social Event—T. American Fork W. S. A.   S.
L. Co. W. S.    Fifty Years Past, and a Hundred
Years Hence—Dr. Elvira S. Barney.    Woman
Before the Law—Locomotive Firemen's Magazine.
Weber Co. W. S. A.    Interesting Visit Through
Millard Stake. 
	EDITORIAL:— Letter of Greeting.    Relief
Society Jubilee.    Editorial Notes.    In Memoriam.
Faith-Hope-Charity—S. W. Richards.    Christmas
at Mesa—Sarah M. Pomroy.
	POETRY:—A Sonnet—E. B. W.    Love Divine
—E. R. S.    White Lilacs—Annie Fields.  Sunday
School Song—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Greet-
ing to the Press Club—R. M. Fox.


A SONNET.

I sit in the shadows, and twilight,
	Peering through the deep mists of the grey,
	To the years that long since swept away;
Till around falls the silence of midnight,
But a vision has dawned on my sight,
	And has shown me a path o’er the way
	To the floodgates of infinite day;
Tired footsteps at last guided right.
	Sweet music floats o’er me uplifting,
The strong walls of the past cleave apart;
	Pale light the dense darkness is rifting,
Tears of rapture unconsciously start;
	And memory's wavelets are drifting
To the innermost depths of my heart.
								E. B W.


LOVE DIVINE.

Oh Father if I’ve been unkind—
	Unjust in word or thought—
If any heart my acts offend,
	Or sorrow to a friend have brought,
Forgivness now of Thee I seek,
	And power self to subdue.
O make me strong wherein I’m weak
	Help me forgive like You!

Bless me with charity and love, 
	And faith in human kind;
To see the good in others’ hearts, 
	And to their faults be blind.
A helping hand in love extend
	To any down the hill,
That I may prove a loyal friend
	To suffering, sad or ill.

And if a heart is sad or sore 
	From slight, or words unkind—
May I the balm of solace pour, 
	Their wounds to soothe and bind.
O help me love humanity
	And all its virtues see,
For those who love most earnestly
	Are surely most like Thee.
								E. R. S.


WINTER LILACS.

A bunch of lilacs there by the door,
	These and no more !
Delicate, lily-white, like the new snow
	Falling below;
A friend saw the flowers and brought them to me,
	As one who should see
A trifle, a glove, just dropped and returned
	While a loving thought burned.


Dark all day was that room of mine
	Till those flowers divine
Into my darkness brought their own light,
	And back to the sight,
Of my spirit the fairest days of June
	And the brooklet's tune;
Where the garden-door was left open wide,
	While by my side
One sat, who, raising his eyes from the book
	With the old fond look,
Asked if I loved not indeed that page
	And the words of the sage.
And as we spoke the cool blue sky,
	The robin nigh,
The dropping blossoms of locust-trees
	Humming with bees,
The budding garden, the season's calm,
	Dropt their own balm.

All these, my friend, were brought back to me,
	Like a tide of the sea,
When out of winter and into my room;
	Came summer's bloom;
The flowers reopened those shining gates
	Where the soul waits,
Many and many a day in vain,
	While in the rain
We stand, and, doubting the future, at last
	Forget the past !

So you will believe what a posy may do,
	When friends are true,
For the sick at heart in the wintry days,
	When nothing allays
The restless hunger, the tears that start,
	The weary smart,
But the old, old love and the summer hush,
	And the lilac bush.
					ANNIE FIELDS, in Scribuer.


RIGHTS OF WIVES AND HUSBANDS.

	In these times when so much is being said
about woman and her rights I suppose we may
all have the privilege of expressing our opinion;
no matter how much we may differ with each
other. I do not profess to be up to the times on
this question, so perhaps my ideas will not
weigh much. I do not remember a time in my
life when I did not feel that women were the
equal of their brothers but have always been
willing to accord them the leadership (if they
were worthy men) and believe the Lord so de-
signed it when He created Adam first, and
there is another thing I often think about,
why are we required to promise to obey our
husbands in the marriage ceremony? if he is
not our head, or do we expect sometime in the
future to strike that little word out.
	Now do not smile and think I am an old
fogy as I assure you I am quite willing to be
the neck. But while I am willing he should be
the head it does not follow that I am his in-
ferior. Nevertheless let us each work in our
proper sphere for I certainly think there are
many things that women are not adapted for,
just as I think there are many vocations in
life where men would be entirely out of place.
	As to women being educated in all the arts
and sciences, and being informed on all the
topics of the day, or being Lawyers, Doctors,
Teachers, Editors, Clerks, etc., if they so de-
sire it I certainly think it their right and
privilege, and believe that intelligent thinking
mothers will be repaid with intelligent sons
and daughters, and am convinced that educa-
tion of women will bring about refinement in
men. Women are accused of being weak.

[column 2]
Wherein are they weak? I will tell you
where, in their loves and sympathies, for in-
stance how many faults a woman will overlook
in her lover, and grave ones too, even if she
knows they are serious and has made up her
mind not to tolerate them; a few promises, a
few soft words, and with a few exceptions she
will be won over and conclude that after all
he means to be good, and he will very likely
grow better as he grows older.
	That is where our weak point lies, and the
sooner we overcome that one the better it will
be for us, for while I think we should love, we
should let wisdom lead the way and guide us
and not marry thinking to reform our hus-
bands afterwards; let woman demand that her
husband be endowed with every virtue that
she is expected to possess. There are few
men, no matter how degraded they may be
but think their wives should be the embodi-
ment of purity, and very few would marry a
woman that would smoke or chew tobacco or
use intoxicants to excess; they would laugh at
the very idea; and yet although these were the
least of their vices they think it allright because
they call themselves men, to ask the hand of
the purest woman in the land in marriage.
Custom has caused us to think that degrad-
ing actions in women are trifles in men; this
is all wrong; it is just as bad for a man to sin,
as for a woman and we should let all men
know that women so understand it.
	Many of us have thought we must always
have a watchful eye over our daughters, but
our sons could go almost anywhere and take
care of themselves But I say while we guard
our daughters, as the apple of our eye, let us
also watch over our sons; and teach them that
God requires of them the same purity of mind,
and body that He does of their sisters, let
them understand that society expects it, that
women demand it, and then, and not till then
should they call themselves the lords of crea-
tion. It is unreasonable for a smart intelligent
woman to take an inferior feeble-minded,
whiskey-soaked, tobacco smoked man, for a
husband and look up to him as her head and
dictator, but when he fills the requirements I
have mentioned and is endowed with all the
attributes God designed he should have, there
will be few contentions about our proper place
for such a man will be quite willing to give us
every right, and what true woman will not do
any good thing to please such a husband.
						  R. M. F.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				VIII.
	When Lady Anna rushed out of the house
that inauspicious morning that her lover had
called, she heeded not the teachings and advice
of her more self contained cousin, she thought
not of the consequence of her rash act—she
only knew, she only felt that her unbounded
love for him must have expression, and in the
open air she realized a feeling of relief; she
waited until the sound of the horse’s footsteps
were heard and then with all the impassioned
ardor of an unsophisticated child who trusted
implicitly in one beloved almost to adoration,
she stood until she felt the horse’s breath; the
young man was so absorbed, so gloomy and
disappointed that he had not observed her
though she was standing there that he might be


[column 1]
﻿sure to see her. In a moment he had dis-
mounted and before he was aware of it even,he
had caught her in his arms, and pressed her
warm lips to his in a long and passionate kiss.
He came to his senses momentarily and felt
that he was guilty of a flagrant error, but the
girl clung to him and begged him to remember
that she loved him only and always, ever and
for ever, and the hoarse wind echoed her words
upon the breeze,and they came ringing back in
broken numbers,—ever, forever.
	What Maitland Walton’s feelings were at
this unexpected declaration of love from Lady
Anna he could scarcely define to himself. He
knew that he loved her truly notwithstanding
her cousin Jane’s suspicions and her father’s
obstinacy, but now a new objection had arisen,
one that he had never suspected in the positive
enmity of the two families. Both were proud
and unrelenting; assuredly young Walton had
food for thought.
	Lady Anna would probably have fled with
him on that morning had he been as unprin-
cipled as many young men of his age and
class, but he checked his ardor and roused 
himself to a sense of his honor and resolved
that no sin should rest upon him in this matter
that he would win her honorably before all
the world, would conquer every obstacle in
the path to their future happiness, or leave
England forever. He could not remain under
the trees to have any conversation or explain
anything to her in fact all was vague in his
own mind, he made no formal promises or pro-
testations, but she knew instictively as every
woman knows, that his love was not the senti-
ment of an idle hour, a summer pastime.
When he had gone, for he flew as on the wings
of the wind from the temptation that haunted
him, his sweetheart gazed lovingly after him
then fell upon her knees and prayed to die
rather than live without him; little she knew
of prayer, yet as we all when we are utterly
desolate seek the Lord knowing little enough
of His divine character, yet earnestly asking
help from the only Source that is able to give.
Poor girl, she had not been taught faith nor
any of the great and grand principles that are
the rock and refuge of the human soul in times
of trial and of perplexity. Alas! how many
such in the wide world go down for lack of the
simple knowledge of God, that would give
them the true sublimity of courage in the hour
of need.
	But perchance in this case as in some others
her good angel stood by to deliver her in the
hour of peril. She rose hesitatingly and care-
fully retraced her way to the house, and up to
her own room; there her maid found her later
in the day, with wet feet, and damp garments;
but a heavy sleep had come over her after a
violent fit of weeping, and her cousin being
summoned had her undressed and put to bed.
Sir Edward was so upset by the interview
with young Walton that Miss Conway did not
venture to tell him of his daughter’s condi-
tion, but went on with the work of packing for
the anticipated journey; her thoughts busily
occupied with the events transpiring around
her, and what was likely to follow. After
Lady Anna’s adventure she seemed still more
melancholy, she took no interest in what was
going on, and left all home matters to her
cousin, who seemed old beyond her years, and
her decision was the ultimatim on all doubtful
questions. 
	Sir Edward went about more like one in a
dream, than a man in his sober senses after the
visit of Lady Walton. It had left a decided
impression upon him; he was more mellow in
his feelings, but seemingly fearful that any one
should observe it even his own niece or child.
Dr. Bland noticed it and spoke to Miss Con-
way upon the subject, he was being more and
more interested in this peculiarly attractive
and strong-minded young woman every day.
[column 2]
In fact he was beginning to comprehend his
own feelings, and analyze them somewhat in
the solitude of his laboratory, and wonder
what was to be the outcome of indications he
observed in his relations with the lady, who
had made his visits at the Castle of so much
more frequent occurrence. He had never be-
lieved it possible for him to be in love with
any object except his profession; it had been
first and foremost ever since he entered upon
his practice and in his career as a Dr. he
had seen and in fact been brought in close
contact with many beautiful and fascinating
women.
	The evening that the preparations for the
journey were completed and they had decided
to go up to London in the early morning Dr.
Bland made his final call to say Good Bye
and caution Sir Edward in regard to his
health; he had communed with his own heart
had made up his mind to let Miss Conway go
away without declaring himself, and yet he
reproached himself somewhat for being
cowardly, “she will never know and it will be
better so,” he said over and over when alone,
and then he would involuntarily exclaim ‘‘but
she is sacrificing herself to the caprice of this
old uncle who has no regard for her more than
to make his life less burdensome.”
	Opportunities sometimes do for us what we
lack courage to do for ourselves,and so it came
about with the genial kind hearted Doctor.
Miss Conway not suspecting the Dr.’s feel-
ings and not knowing his decision in regard
to herself asked him to step into the drawing
room that she might consult him on a private
matter. Sir Edward was in his own room and
Anna engaged in entertaining him. Alone
with Miss Conway the Dr. was not half as self-
possessed as the young woman, he fidgeted
while she explained that she was about to ask
his advice upon a very delicate matter, and
one that he must keep a profound secret. His
heart seemed twice its usual size, he felt faint
and weak, and begged her pardon without
knowing what he said for being so dull and
promised all and more than she wished. Her
cautious way of stating the difficulties that
had lately arisen, to hinder the intimacy be-
tween her cousin and Mr. Walton revealed
her true character more clearly than ever to
the good man, and when she had finished he
said, “what a fine diplomat you would make
Jane,” at the same moment taking her hand
in his, she drew herself up to her full height
which was not very great, quickly withdrew
her hand from the warm clasp, and turning
her eyes full of indignation upon him was
about to walk proudly away, but all at once
his manliness came to his relief from embar-
rassment, and he conquered by the force of
will-power, that in the best and greatest men
is intuitively recognized even in the most
heroic women; he succeeded in getting Miss
Conway to listen, and urged on by the per-
sonality of her charming presence, he became
as eloquent as any young lover. The quiet
young girl who had made up her mind be-
forehand to a life of single-blessedness, fancy-
ing herself unlovely, and almost without
friends, was completely taken by surprise; for
the first time in her life perhaps she was
totally at a loss to know what reply to make
to such vehement utterances, and stood
like one petrified. “I will not urge my suit
farther at the present moment, but leave you
to decide my destiny after serious reflection,
while absent in person; and without giving
her the least advice on the subject under
consideration previous to his informal
announcement of his own cause, he bade her
a most affectionate farewell and rushed pell mell
out of the house leaving the young lady quite
as astonished as he was himself at his moment-
ary audicity. Jane Conway began to think
the world was turning upside down, coming
[column 3]
from the quiet of her former home into the
midst of the rush and excitement that had
lately taken place in the old ruin of a castle,
that in outward appearance was almost un-
inhabitable; the girl could not sleep, so
strange did it seem that any one should love
her, she almost forgot her cousin’s troubles in
contemplation of her own feelings.
	Morning came at last and after a hasty
breakfast and many admonitions to the old
housekeeper and the steward the lumbering
old coach drove out of the immense gateway
into the open country road. Lady Anna
was silent and thoughtful, traces of tears were
on her fair cheek and Jane was not as attentive
to her uncle’s comfort as usual. Sir Edwrrd
growled at his valet,and was disagreeable with
the girls, but they took no notice until he
broke out all of a sudden in his usual style
more emphatic than elegant—‘ Jane one would
think you were breaking your heart at leaving
the old tumbled down place, by George your
not muah company for a gouty old fellow like
me who needs bracing up, I’m sick of
sentimentality and dont care ever to see the
old place again, I’ll live abroad after this, and
see that my girl steers clear of that young
jack-a napes, and Jane what has come over
you, has Dr. Bland proposed? any one can
see he’s heod over ears in love, you refused
him undoubtedly and he chuckled to himself
I knew he’d make himself ridiculous. If he
knew when he was well off he’d let women
alone, besides I want you to look after me and
your unruly cousin here.” No oue interrupting
or answering him made him savage. Jane’s
cheeks were blazing she would’nt trust herself
to reply and after venting his spleen a few
minutes longer he settled back in the carriage
and fell fast asleep.

SUNDAY SCHOOL FOR THE DFAF.
	The conse t of the Principals of the Deseret
University having been obtained to a Sunday
School for children in the Deal Mute Dept. an
organization was effected.—ED.
	Sketch of organization of L. D. S. Sunday
School for the Deaf, Salt Lake City, Sunday
Jan. 10, 1892. Stake S. S. Superintendent T.
C. Griggs and his Assistants R. S. Horne and
W. C. Burton met Elders H. C. Barrell and
Laron Pratt at the Utah School for the Deaf
where Principal F. W. Metcalf furnished us
with a list of 11 girls and 16 boys as pupils for
our S. School. With them we marched to the
19th Ward Relief Society Room Mr. Metcalf
kindly assisting as interpreter. The pro-
gramme was as follows: Prayer by Supt. T.
C. Griggs, statement of object of meeting to
organize S. School, nearly all present had been
baptized; none held the Priesthood. Elder
H. C. Barrell was appointed as Supt. of S.
School and Elder Laron Pratt as his assistant,
each addressing a few words to the school.
Brother W. C Burton inquired how many had
attended S.School before and many responded.
Brother R. S. Horne related the circumstances
of the crucifixion and death of Christ and Prof.
Metcalf interpreted it. Roll called and
distribution of the first principles of the Gospel
as a lesson for next Sunday. Benediction by
R. S. Horne.				H. C. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Two deputy United States Marshals of
Tennessee have been fined $1,000 and sentenced
by Judge Key to twelve and a half months in
the penitentiary for working up frivolous
prosecutions for the purpose of obtaining fees.
Utah should have such a judge, for in this
Territory a large number of cases against the
Mormons are trumped up for the same purpose,
as may be seen from the large number of
arrests and the few convictions. 
	Woman’s Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUNDAY SCHOOL SONG.

[Written for the South Bountiful Central Sunday
School.]
Ye children saints of Latter-days,
Assemble at the Throne,
And make your songs of joy and praise,
For mercies God has shown.
For heritage in this fair land,
The choicest spot on earth;
Where God led forth His chosen band,
And proved the Gospel’s worth.

Here desolation long had reigned .
O’er barren wastes and snows,
But God the desert has reclaimed
 blossoms as the rose;
And while astray from holy lands,
No hope the red man knew,
The Book of Mormon brought him joy 
And shaped his life anew.

And here to Him in Sabbath hour,
In gratitude we bend,
Oh may His Spirit’s quickening power,
Our listening hearts attend.
Help us to know Thy holy will,
And faithful servants be;
That rising from this life we’ll find
Our selves at home with Thee.
	Augusta Joyce Crocheron


GREETING TO THE PRESS CLUB.

My sisters so dear in meeting you here
	At this our first monthly meeting,
A word I would say in my own humble way,
	By way of Godspeed and a greeting.

May this little band, increase in the land,
	In numbers and knowledge and grace;
May wisdom here grow, and the good spirit flow,
	And truth ever beam in our faces.

And here if we would, 'tis right that we should,
	Discuss all important, great questions
Take line upon line, in their order and time,
	Thus helping the work of perfection.

Of topics quite new, there are not a few,
	To which we might give our attention,
And principles grand, revealed by God's hand,
	Would be noble themes for reflection.

So here like the flow'rs, amid sunshiny showers,
	May we be refreshed, and renewed,
To take up the strife, in the battle of life,
With new courage, and vigor imbued.

And thus we'll go on, 'tis not very long
	Ere Zion will rise in her might;
And women we'll need, that are women indeed,
	That will struggle for truth and the right.

And is it not true 'tis pleasant to view
	A true band of sisters together?
And if we do good, in the way that we should,
	Our Father will bless us forever.

		R. M. FOX.
Nov. 30, 1891.


BIRTHDAY OF A VETERAN.

	On Sunday Jan. 17, 1892 Patriarch Jos.
Horne attained the ripe age of four score
years. On Monday his family and friends
assembled by invitation to honor him and
celebrate the anniversary of his birth. The
children and grandchildren and friends that
were gathered on this happy occasion were
about as many as the number of his years.
The party was given at the residence of his
daughter and son in law Bro. and Sister
H. C. James. Pres. W. Woodruff with whom
Bro. Horne had long been associated was
present, also Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, and Pres.
Angus M. Cannon and Pres. Jos. E. Taylor,
Bishop O. F. Whitney and Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor, Bro. David James also Sister Zina D


H, Young, S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith
Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Cannon,
Elizabeth Howard, E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor,
Amanda M. Cannon, Lissa Taylor, Zine
Whitney, Lydia James and other friends-
	A programme had been arranged consisting
of a variety of pleasing exercises, and opening
with an address from one of the older sons.
There was some instrumental music and a song
by Cornelia Horne Clayton which was very
appropriate,rendered in a sweet voice and with
fine expression, "Dear heart I’m growing old,"
also a recitation by the baby of the family,
the youngest daughter, toasts and speeches by
members of the family all expressing love and
reverence were given, after which Pres.
Woodruff occupied a short time in interesting
reminiscences of days when Bro. Horne and
himself were young,and the great improvements
and inventions since that time; and related
some experiences. Pres Cannon and brethren
and sisters who followed him all spoke of their
friendship and esteem for Bro. Horne and
family and wished him continued blessings of
prosperity, health aad happiness.
	It was a most delightful evening, and a
sweet spirit and influence seemed shed abroad
and filled every heart. Bro. Horne responded
to the remarks made in a very happy manner,
alluded to earlier experiences and his gratitude
in receiving the Gospel in his early manhood.
Sister M. I. Horne his wife, (their marriage
dates back 55 years and more,) directed her
remarks principally to the young members of
the family, who know little of the trials and
privations their parents have endured now
when surrounded with so many comforts and
luxuries. Sister Horne related a few incidents
in her past life, that were very telling, and
calculated to make a lasting impression upon
the young people. Bro. and Sister Horne are
a fine looking aged couple and their family
though large is a very exemplary one. The
eldest son, who also has quite a large family,
resides in Arizona and was not present at the
birthday gathering; one daughter Mrs. Nora
Horne Spencer came from Idaho to participate
in the family festivities.
	A most delicious repast including ice cream
and other delicacies as well, was served by the
daughters and grand daughters of the aged
and venerable patriarch. Such gatherings
and family reunions are pleasant and pro-
ductive of unity and kindly feeling, promote
affection and engender those tender sentiments
that bind together those whose lives as they
grow older, sometimes drift wider apart. A
long and useful life is deserving of honor and
the example of such men as Bro. Jos. Horne is
worthy of imitation


A SOCIAL EVENT.

	On the evening of Dec. 30th, 1891, a
company of invited guests assembled at the
residence of Mr. and Mr. S. O. Crosby at
Panguitch. After a cordial welcome, of the
host and hostess and greetings of friends, a
programme was read consisting of songs,
recitations and dialogues, all of which were
nicely rendered. The music is deserving of
special mention. The singing, which was
accompanied by music on the organ, was
exquisite and gave a still more elevated tone
to the gathering. A sumptuous supper was
served which was freely indulged in by all.
In every respect the entertainment was a
brilliant and enjoyable one and the evening
will long be remembered. After congratulating
our genial host and hostess upon their happy
manner of entertaining their friends, and
returning thanks for the same, the party
was dismissed with a benediction by Pres. J.
W. Crosby Jr.
			T.


AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.

	The W. S. A. of American Fork convened
in the meeting house Nov. 29, 1891 to elect
officers for the ensuing term. The exercises
began with singing and prayer, after which
the secretary read financial report for the
year 1891. President Electa Bullock,
presented the business of the meeting. By
the unanimous vote of the meeting Hannah
S. Lapish, was re-elected for president, Mary
A. Evans, Sec., Alice Elsmore, Asst Sec.,
Mary Bonam, Treasurer. Emily Keppernick,
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Esther Eastmond, Orpha Robinson, Phoebe
Crysteson and Elizabeth Shelley it was left
until another meeting to choose two more to
make the number complete. The Co. Pres.
expressed herself highly pleased with the
success attained the past year, and felt with
such energetic workers sure of success in the
coming year. A vote of thanks was given to
the several Committees for the efficiency in
which they have performed their different
labors. After singing and prayer—Adjourned.
			MARY A. EVANS, Sec.
	American Fork, Jan. 4th, 1892.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeeting of the Salt
Lake W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, Jan. 19th 1892 Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened by
singing from the Suffrage Song Book "O come
come away" Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
Minutes of the last meeting read and approved.
Roll called. after which several new members
were voted in and the programme was carried-
out as follows. Speech by C. C. R. Wells
subject, What do we gain by meeting together
as an association. Reading by Dr. E. S.
Barney "The Woman's Manual of Parlia-
mentary Law" also sketches from "The
Woman's Club Book." Elizabeth Price gave
some items on the Constitution and mentioned
that the association contemplated having a
sociable some time in the "near future" the
time and place to be anounced later on. Vice
Pres. Caroline E. Dye made a brief speech.
Vice Pres. Phebe C. Young said some ladies
paid their membership fee, had their names
enrolled and seemed to think their duty done,
which was well so far as it went, but of
course they could not expect to be educated on
the suffrage question without attending the
association aud taking a part in it. Pres.
Howard expressed her pleasure at the way in
which the exercises had been rendered, and
the interest which was manifested by the ladies
in the cause in which we are laboring, and
begged earnestly of the ladies to pray for the
members of the U. S. Congress, and our Utah
Legislature that they might have wisdom to
guide them in their labors.
	Adella Eardley advocated strict order in
conducting meetings, economy of time, short
speeches, variety of speakers and giving all
the members an opportunity of exerciseing
their ability in the management of the associa-
tion. Elizabeth McFarlane said she liked
extremists!. The Lord had said once of Israel,
He would that they were either hot or cold,
liked a person with a hobby, and loved to have
them ride it. Several meetings were
announced for the present and coming week,
after which the meeting was adjourned until
the third Tuesday in Feb. same hour and
place.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.


It is better to suffer wrong than to do it, and
happier to be sometimes cheated than not to
trust.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT 

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate cast of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	JAN. 15, AND FEB. 1. 1892.


LETTER OF GREETING.

TO THE SISTERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD WE UNITEDLY EXTEND
A HEARTFELT GREETING.

	It will be fifty years on Thursday, March 17,
1892, since Joseph Smith the Prophet organized
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois by Divine
inspiration.
	Sister Emma Smith was elected President, and
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sister Sarah
M. Cleveland Counselors, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
was appointed Secretary, Sister Phebe M.
Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Sister Elvira
A Cole, Treasurer; after which the ceremony of
ordination was performed and Pres. Joseph
Smith declared the Society organized.
	This most momentous event for woman causes
us to view with wonder the past, with gratitude
the present and with faith the future. Therefore
it seems fitting in this our Jubilee year at the
close of half a century, that the branches of this
Society in all lands should unite in celebrating
this grand anniversary by meeting together in joy-
ful yet solemn assembly and that this great
gathering may mark an important period in the
history of this organization for woman.

	INSTRUCTIONS.

	First: The President and Counselors of each
branch are requested to notify all members of the
Relief Society of the Jubilee.
	Second; Let the presiding authorities in each
locality, or ward be consulted and a cordial invi-
tation extended to them.
	Third: Let Committees be appointed to assist
in making preparations for the day, and io invite
those who are to participate in the celebration,
that none may be neglected or forgotten.
	Fourth: That all meet promptly at ten o'clock
in the morning, rendering such exercises as shall
be suitable to this important occasion, including a
brief sketch of the history of the Relief Society
to be prepared and read by some one selected for
the purpose.
	Fifth: At 12 o'clock m., (high noon) let all join
in a universal prayer of praise and thanksgiving
to God; after which let each branch arrange an
entertainment according to their circumstances
that it may be a time of rejoicing never to be for-
gotten.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
			JANE S. RICHARDS
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


[Column 1]

THE RELIEF SOCIETY JUBILEE.

	On the 17th of March of this year there will be
a grand Jubilee of the Relief Society held in all
countries where there has been a branch of this

[Column 2]

organization raised up. The programme has not
yet been prepared for the celebration here in the
centre Stake of Zion but will be in good time.
Meantime a Letter of Greeting has been prepared
by the General Presidency of the Relief Society,
and also a few special instructions that there may
be union and a similarity in the services rendered
throughout the world. This seems to be in keep-
ing with the spirit of such a momentous occasion.
	The length and breadth and vast extent of the
work, spiritual and temporal that has been done
during the half century that is past since the first
complete organization, of woman in the West of
which we have any knowledge,which was effected
in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, cannot be
estimated by any method within the reach of our
finite comprehension. To be sure records have
been kept in branches and in Stakes and also a
general record of such items as were considered
sufficiently important.
	But the best things are seldom set down in the
books anywhere, nor indeed can they be, and yet
we have the assurance of our Savior that our
Father in heaven takes note of all these little
things that seem so small even to us who live
upon the earth.
	Thousands have been comforted, encouraged,
fed with the bread of life and ministered unto by
the sisters of the Relief Society, that would prob-
ably not have been thus blessed had it not been
for this perfected organization, that has taught its
members to search out not only the needy and
distressed bodily, but the sorrowing, the erring,
the doubting, and the tempted ones who need the
uplifting hand of kindness and of tender solici-
tude.
	See that ye love one another were the words of
the Great Master in his teachings to the people,
and those who profess to be his disciples, his fol-
lowers should put his precepts into practise in
their lives. Those we love we desire to honor, to
show favor to, kindness, courtesy and attention.
When men and women do more of this, when
they study to imitate the example of Him, who
was without sin, blameless, then they will com-
prehend in a higher and better sense the charity
that Paul spoke of, the charity "that thinketh no
ill," the charity "that never faileth."
	These are some of the simple first lessons to be
learned by the sisters who have united themselves
together to go on to perfection.
	Just how the Jubilee will be kept in all lands, is
not yet known. In places afar off the character of
the entertainments will have to be determined by
those who know better than the officers here can
possibly know, what will be most suitable to their
feelings and most appropriate to their circum-
stances.
	One fact is pretty well established and that is
that the Relief Society has become a power and
wields a wonderful influence wherever its
branches are spread abroad. It is not only
National but International and has become con-
nected to both these great Federations that have
held their Councils at the Capitol of the United
States. In every town and hamlet where a branch
of the Church is raised up, a good proportion of
its members are women, and very soon they are
organized into a Relief Society and become part
and portion of the parent society and assimilate
with it. The spirit of this Society extends to the
most remote branch even upon the far off islauds
of the sea, and there we find the sisters though
unknowing of the methods pursued here in Zion,
doing similar works of charity, benevolence and
kindness. The Jubilee to be celebrated this year
will crystalize the works and efforts of the women
of Zion into something of greater magnitude and
more extensive proportions than the Society has
hitherto assumed.
	The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith to
the Society in its infancy, should be engraven
upon the minds of the sisters for their encourage-

[Column 3]

ment in that higher development of character
that, they are desirous of reaching.
	It is perhaps not generally known that Pres.
Joseph Smith at that early time donated to the
Society a lot on which to build homes for the
homeless, and also to furnish work to those who
were able to work and were out of employment,
he proposed deeding it to the Treasurer and
her successors in office,for the use of the Society.
Pres. Brigham Young when he reorganized the
Society here in these valleys authorized Sister
Eliza R. Snow and those associated with her to
carry out the original designs as set forth by the
Prophet Joseph and as recorded in the Books of
the secretary that were in Sister Eliza's posses-
sion. This has been the endeavor of those who
have presided all along from that time until the
present.
	And now at the close of the half century of
labor and effort for improvement on the part of
the noble women who have enrolled themselves
as active members of this organization how can
they prove their integrity to the cause,their grati-
tude to God, better than to celebrate in some way
that shall be most general and productive of the
greatest good to all concerned, this day of days,
this woman's Jubilee?


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The suffrage leaflets issued by the S. L. Co.
W. S. Association may be obtained free by ad-
dressing this office, if sufficient stamps are sent
for postage. The leaflet contains the article from
D. P. Fett of Provo, "A Man's Advice About
Woman Suffrage," and the able reply by Sarah M.
Kimball.
	On account of unavoidable circumstances one
incident being the long illness of one of the girl
typo's there will not be a paper for January 15,
except one issued Febuary 1, which is dated on
its title page Jan. 15, and Feb. 1. Compensation
will be made each subscriber however in another
way, so they need have no fear of loss.
	The "Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book" pub
lished by the Ter. Association is for sale at this
office, 10. cts. per copy and we would be very glad
to dispose of them to the local associations or to
individuals. They ought to be used in the suf-
frage meetings having been prepared and printed
for that purpose, as many were at a loss for songs
suitable for these occasions. Nearly all the songs
are by home writers and the tunes are those in
common use, so that they can be available to all,
please send orders and they will be promptly
filled if accompanied with money, as the books
have been on hand more than a year and very
few have been sold, not half enough to pay for
the printing.
	The book of the proceedings at the National
Council in Washington last winter entitled
"National Council of Women 1891," is for sale at
this office, and we should be very glad to have
it circulated among the women interested in
organized work, whether benevolent, social, or
political or in any way progressive. The book
contains speeches and papers from some of the
most eminent women of the country, on many
topics of advanced thought. It is a work that can
be read, reread, studied and discussed and cannot
fail but make an impression for good, the price is
one dollar only and the book contains 372 pages
and is well bound and has photogravures of
the two boards of officers, five of each, the one
elected in 1888 the other in 1891—when sending
for book please enclose twenty cts., postage.
You will get much more than the worth of your
money.
	Special meetings are being held in the several
wards in this City for the purpose of awakening


an interest in and agitating the questions of Citi-
zenship and Suffrage. Women interested in this
movement for political and educational advance-
ment in the respective wards have presided at
such meetings and arranged programmes for the
occasion. The first meeting was held in the
Eleventh Ward on Friday Jan. 15. Mary A.
Freeze Chairman, Lizzie L. Felt, Sec., and the
other members of the Committee were Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp, Sarah White and Jeannette Morris.
After singing from the Suffrage Song Book, prayer
was offered and Dr. Elvira S. Barney read Zerelda
G. Wallace's Suffrage leaflet, speeches by E. B.
Wells and Lillie T. Freeze. The next meeting was
on Tuesday Jan. 19, in the 17th Ward at the resi-
dence of W. J. Beattie, Phebe Y. Beattie Chair-
man and Ella Dallas Secretary. Dr. Barney read
Henry Ward Beecher's suffrage leaflet and
Apostle John Henry Smith made an eloquent ad-
dress on political questions generally touching
upon the local situation and the woman ques-
tion. Pres. Sarah M. Kimball followed with logi-
cal reasonings and E. B. Wells spoke briefly. In
the third Ward Thursday Jan. 21, a meeting was
held at which Della W. Eardley presided and
Miss Irvine was chosen Secretary. Hon.
C. W. Penrose was expected but could not go
and sent a paper instead which was read by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp, speeches were made by Emily
S. Richards, and Dr. Elvira S. Barney. In the
tenth Ward Friday afternoon a meeting was held
where the speakers were Dr. Elvira S. Barney,
Elizabeth Mc'Farlane, Elizabeth Price, M.
Isabella Horne, Phebe C. Young, Mary A.
Freeze, Margaret M. Caine, and Hon. C. W.
Penrose.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

"Of all the thoughts of God that are
Born inward unto souls afar
	Along the Psalmist's music deep, 
Now tell me if that any is,
For gifts or grace surpassing this—
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.' "

	Death often steals away from those who love
them the dearest and the best, the purest spirits,
the fairest flowers of earth, those that gladden
and cheer the home, and whose faces are ever
light with peace and joy. "Death loves a shining
mark," has been written and so it has been in the
sudden departure of the two young women who
died so closely to each other, daughters of the
late President Brigham Young.
	It was a terrible shock to the community when
it was announced that Mrs. Talula Young Wood
only a few months married, was dead, and when
on the following morning it was known that the
spirit of her sister Mrs. Fanny Young Thatcher
had also taken its flight from earth, to those who
loved them most, the blow seemed heavier than
ever. Both were talented and accomplished, and
very generally beloved.
	Fanny the eldest was the daughter of Lucy
Decker and Brigham Young and was born in
pioneer times, January 25, 1849, she died Jan. 21,
1892, nearly 43 years of age; she leaves a married
daughter and two boys and one grandson. Lovely
and tender as a mother, a devoted and affectionate
wife, constant and true in friendship, and faithful
in all the relations of life, and in all the duties
and privileges of a Latter-day Saint; tenderly
loved, and ardently admired for her womanly at-
tributes and graces, of which she seemed not to
lack one; she possessed rare talent in music and
had composed some beautiful pieces when quite
young, but her eyes failing her, she was compelled
to forego this pleasure; her very soul was sym-
pathetically musical and she has gone now to

		"Join, the choir invisible,
	Of those immortal dead who live again.

	When the Central Board of the Young Ladies

[Column 2]

Association was organized June 18, 1880, Mrs.
Thatcher was chosen Treasurer and filled the
office up to the time of her demise. She has
filled the position of President of the Primary in
the 18th, Ward, also President of the Young
Ladies' Association of the Ward, which place she
occupied when called away. Her loss will be
deeply felt in the Ward for she was always ready
to give good gifts as well as sympathy and com-
fort. She had been in delicate health and in fact
suffered a great deal during the past few years,
though she never lost courage, and her faith in
the administration of the ordinances of the priest-
hood was firm to the last. Dear Fanny, sweet and
lovely in her earth life, has gone, we mourn for
the loss of her society here, but she rejoices with
her loved ones there, and we know that "All is
well." May our Heavenly Father comfort the
bereaved ones, the children especially who have
been called to part with an angelic mother, and
may they emulate her noble and wise example,
her patience, and fortitude of character, her self-
sacrifice and deuotion to the principles of the
Gospel.

	"So—by small slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
	By the hearts unspoken yearning,
		By its grief and loss;
	So He brings them home to rest
	With the victors crowned and blest!

	So!—by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded,
		Trampled on the ground;
	So He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.

	Talula the younger was the daughter of Clara
Decker and Brigham Young and was born
on the 4th of March 1861, the day Abraham
Lincoln was inaugurated, and died Jan. 20, 1892
aged 30 years, ten months and sixteen days.
Talula was always a delicate child, while at
school she progressed rapidly and inclined to a
classical education but her health would not per-
mit of constant study. She loved art and gave
her attention to cultivation in painting, she had a
truly poetic temperament and appreciated the
highest and best in all that tended to advancement
in this direction and encouraged and aided her
young friends in these lofty pursuits. Her taste
was exquisite, her love of the beautiful, her idea
of harmony in coloring and other matters was
very fine. She was one of those dainty creatures
that we rarely find like a rare flower or a precious
gem. Her constancy to her friends under all cir-
cumstances was one of the strongest attributes
of character. She had a noble magnanimous soul
was true as steel in friendship, if she had once
trusted she could be relied upon though all the
world frowned, she had the confidence of those
with whom she was associated, and they knew
she would never betray it.
	But she has gone beyond recall, and we who
remain know that "Our Father doeth all things
well."

	"If we could push ajar the gates of life,
		And stand within and all God's working see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
		And for each mystery could find a key."

	"And if through patient toil, we reach the land
		Where, tired feet with sandals loosed may rest.
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
		I think that we will say 'God knew the best."


[Column 1]

﻿FAITH—HOPE—CHARITY.

BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	The columns of the EXPONENT have been used
to investigate the merit of these three words

[Column 2]

which are happily associated together, and I
would be permitted to add my mite to the many
good things already written of their characteristic
virtues which relate to human life and action.
	Faith is treated of, as being the gift of God to
man. True!—and as true, it was the gift of God,
to the spirit of men before man was.
	Faith, Hope and Charity, constitute the ele-
ment of all spiritual intelligences in glorified
worlds. They are to the creations of God in the
spirit world of life, as earth, air and water are to
the human life in this world. They were before
the world and will remain after the world in its
temporal condition shall have passed away. As
it is written—"faith, hope and charity, these three
abide." They are eternal principles.
	These being the virtues and inherent qualities
of the Father, they are transmitted to his children
in the spiritual creation; the likeness of which we
have in the father here, transmitting the virtues
and powers of his own nature to his children after
him.
	Evidence of this fact we have in little children
before their spirits become contaminated with
evil influences that engender doubt and distrust.
They have the most implicit faith in every word
that father and mother speaks to them. They
have no doubts nor fears of the truth of all that
mother can say to kindle their hopes of joy and
pleasure. It is the labor of life, of a mother's
love, to develop what is already implanted in the
spirit by its spiritual creation. Were the germs
not there; they would never be made to grow and'
develop in man, as we understand they are de-
veloped in and constitute the character of our
heavenly Father. The child of innocence, en-
dowed with these heavenly virtues, is a precious
charge with grave responsibilities, committed to
mother's care.
	The life of the child is to be guarded so long
as possible from every false thing whether of
word or act, that create distrust or doubt in the
certainty and truth of humanity, and thereby
weakens the faith that should never be checked in
its growing strength to a full complete develop-
ment in the soul.
	God has imparted the principle of faith as the
foundation for moral action. The mind must have
its moral judgment, its laws of right and wrong
for the development of the spiritual.
	Faith stimulated and brought into lively action
demands works as evidence of its living power,
and these works are always accompanied by hope
of realizing the intent of the act, and thus we find
that faith and hope are virtues always found in
harmony with each other,and are as closely allied
as cause and effect; inseparable in their relation.
These in their operations under the influence of
charity, prompted by the love of God, develop
the character of God in man, and make him like
his Maker. Hope is a rare virtue in the soul's
spiritual development. The soul in which reason
is developed by correct teaching hopes for the
right never for the wrong; for the good and not
the evil; for happiness, never for misery; always
hopes for the reward of virtue, never for vice; is
a power of strength to that endurance so often
necessary to obtain the victory over that which
threatens to destroy, if possible the faith we have
so fondly and justly cherished.
	It is the defender of that faith, the weapon of
our defence against every assailant that would
seek its destruction. The more faith and hope
are cherished, the stronger they become, an
evidence of their virtue and undying merit. With-
out the possession and exercise of them we can-
not please God, the source from whence they are
derived; with them we may be his children, and
inherit the love of God which is charity, the
greatest of the three.
	Charity in this connection—that charity that
never faileth, can only be considered as being the
love of God. "God is love." On this is suspended


all of divine goodness, mercy and favor—all of
truth, justice and judgment. It is the holiest of
all that is holy. It is the prompter of all His
works the very foundation of His tlirone and
constitutes the divinity of His being and' char-
acter.
	For this reason we may safely trust Him, for
love worketh no ill. Like one of old we may say
"though he slay me yet will I trust Him."
Though he may afflict, it is but to purify though
he may chasten, it is to refine, and should he ad-
minister judgment, it is but to redeem and all
these administrations are virtues for man to
pattern after. In this love there is no lurking hate
-to bias the infliction of penalties not justly de-
manded by the law that has been violated. All
men are creatures of his mercy, partakers of His
kindness. His love is not quenched by our in-
difference to it. All these are lessons for us to
emulate, they fill our souls with gratitude to Him
as our Father, and teach us that by loving our
fellow creatures we love what he loves, and as
He is worthy of our gratitude, so may we be-
come worthy and receive the gratitude of others,
by any and all of the administration that love can
devise and acts of kindness demonstrate.
	Faith and Hope reach out for that day when
charity, the love of God, shall prevail over all the
earth, when every thought, word or deed of man
towards his fellow man shall be influenced by its
power, to the bringing in of everlasting righteous-
ness, universal peace, and the fulness of God's
glory be the light of that Millennial day, that
shall bring rest and peace to every child suscep-
tible of these virtues, which constitute the ele-
ment of our immortality, the spiritual strength of
an endless life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS AT MESA.

MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTERS:
	It is with pleasure that I improve this oppor-
tunity of penning a few lines to you. My hopes
and good wishes are that you have enjoyed a very
merry Christmas and happy New Year.
	Christmas passed very pleasantly here a
Christmas tree in our public Hall, loaded with
presents, and distributed by old St. Nicholas him-
self, made the hearts of the children glad, with a
dance for them in the afternoon.
	I myself passed a very agreeable Chrismas
with my family gathered around me, I also had
Pres. Robson and his family with some other
friends. My son Wm. married C. I. R's. daughter
and my eldest son Talmas married a daughter of
B. F. Johnson, formerly of Spring-Lake Villa. At
such a gathering an absent one is miSsed very
much, so I missed Zula, wife of S. F. Kimball.
	Ever having a desire for your happiness and
the success of our little paper, which is such an
able advocate of the rights of women, I will ever
remainlts well wisher.
	Yours with much love.
		SARAH M. POMEROY.


[Column 1]

FIFTY YEARS PAST, AND ONE
HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.

	The 17th of March,1842,was an eventful day
for Latter-day Saint women. Fifty years has
passed 6ince then those years of time were not
ours, they were lent us.
	Now as we have borrowed, should we not re-
turn with usury?
	At least our labors should speak for us in
praise,—that we obey, if we love Him, whose
blood was spilt—His life for us so kindly
given.
	Not only obedience, but humility, was the
great lesson He taught. "Except ye be con-
verted, and become as little children ye shall
not enter into the kingdom of heaven."

[Column 2]

	There was no stereotyped aristocracy of Him
left on record.
	Some have lived many times Fifty Years,
others only so many minutes. This may seem
strange to some, but not strange to the Master.
He gives, and he takes.
	We and all we have is His, if Him we
serve.
	Fifty years .ago a journey was marked out
by a master hand,i he line was straight, but
the road had many curves,to obscure our vision
from hills, and bluffs beyond and lofty peaks
and vales below. With childish eyes we drew
no bounds of distance, and willingly continued
to fill the programme, and complete the
journey.
	In Fifty Years if we have climbed above
the cliffs, we have obtained a magnified vision
by which to scan more closely the lives of wo-
man, and man) and moie safely tread.
	Time now so precious—that we might build
well we must not recount all the labors or
moments of the past, and our own time be
wasted in backward idle gaze, for if to time
lent us, principal with interest is to becom-
puted, we can only reckon and add our future
gain, to our present status.
	What of Fifty years? It is behind us, we
must look before us, some may yet reach it,
but many are past it and with speed are rush-
ing on with all our force and might and if at
twilight only we begin to do the labors of the
day, we are too soon lost in the darkness.
	There is but little time left to complete the
work that God gave us to do, unto the time of
His coining. He said "I'll cut my work short
in righteousness or else no flesh would be,
saved."
	He has given us eyes to see it and hearts
to feel it, for which I praise his high and holy
name.
	What of the next One Hundred Years? (I
will here give a portion of an article which I
wrote on an occasion that called it forth on the
8th of Aug. 1889, refering to one hundred years
hence.) We may believe that,—houses will
then be built as by magic. The works of
man, and the wasting of his muscular force,
will be relieved by electricity, steam power
and other devices. Foreign friends, in almost
a moment, will become our next door neigh-
bors. Our crops in the field will hurry their
growth and maturity by scientific methods un-
til the scriptures will be fulfilled that say,
"The plowman shall overtake the reaper."
The birds of the air will sing the melodies of
the harpist. Our horses will talk to us as with
well written language. The waves of the seas
will dance and be quieted, at the command of
the scientist. The polar seas will be warmed
and yield to the rays of the summer's sun.
The lessons that now seem so hard to the
child, to cope with, will be as simple as the
alphabet is to the sire, for as knowledge ex-
tends, the power of perception will be quick-
ened with the advance of time, and on the
nearing of God's predictions, so will His
power be made manifest, to not only move
upon the scientist to unravel and explain
what appears as mysteries and hidden powers
but He himself, the Great Master of science,
who holds the keys will turn them for man-
kind, in the day of His power and thus solve
the now great problems.
	Let us then leave our neighbor's weak points
to strengthen our own.
	Guyot says "that plants have three periods
of growth. The slowest and longest is that of
the root the next fastest is that of the stem
and last and quickest is that of the blossom
and fruit.
	Henry Ward Beecher in refering to this
says, "I have been wont to think that the
world grew by the root till the advent of
Christ that from the advent of Christ to our
day, it has been growing by the stem and that

[Column 3]

in the period in which we stand it is growing
by the blossom and fruit. Changes that
formerly required a hundred years for ac-
complishment, now require scarcely a score—
things rush to their accoomplishment. And I
make this plea in behalf of woman, not without
hope that I may see, in my day, an improve-
raent in her condition."
	Some movement, it is anticipated, will be
made to celebrate the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the organization of woman in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which will
occur on the 17th of March 1892.
		DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 11, 1892.


WOMAN BEFORE THE LAW.

	Advocates of equal rights have many annoy-
ing things to contend with, many exasperating
arguments to meet, many disagreeable people
to answer, and these are all embodied in the
woman who "has all the rights she  wants."
There is some excuse for the opposition of
men who are unwilling to share their long-ex-
ercised power. Some allowance must be made
for those men who are conscientious in th be-
lief that the lines will be made harder instead
of easier for women when they possess political
equality, and who oppose it for these kindly,
although misguided, reasons. But patience
reaches its limit when it encounters a woman
who would deny all other women the suffrage
because "she has all the rights she wants."
There is only one person more narrow, selfish
and ungenerous, and that is the woman who
signs a "remonstrance" against granting the
ballot. A few women have done this, an in-
finitesimal number compared to those who have
signed petitions asking for the privilege of
voting, and their posterity will blush to read
their names. The woman of a few generations
hence will be utterly at a loss to understand
the spirit that would inspire one of her sex to
ask that freedom and independence might not
be conferred upon her.
	But let us consider for a moment the con-
dition of these women who "have all the rights
they want." We will glance at the events of
one week, that chanced to get into the daily
print, only a small part of what is happening
in this respect all the time. We find Miss
Irene W. Coit passing with honors the severe
examination for entrance to Yale College and
refused admission because she is a woman.
We see a number of Methodist Assemblies
of ministers voting against permitting women
to sit as delegates in the General Conference
simply because they are women. We read of
the Presbyterian Conference of Alabama vot-
ing that women shall not be permitted to speak
in public. In the city of Toledo a street must
be cared for by two commissioners who own
property on the street. Upon one it was found
that every property owner on the street was
a woman but one. Therefore, instead of ap-
pointing this man and one woman, they
selected a man from another street for the
other commissioner. In New Hampshire a
drunken Canadian farmer stole their child
from his wife and gave it to his parents in
Canada. The mother, protected by a detective
secured the child, which she found Covered
with dirt and rags. The father carried the
matter into court and, sustained by the law, a
constable took the child away from its mother
and returned it to the husband's parents in
Canada.
	In Iowa a man and wife lived together eight
years and had two children, but whether they
were married or not, nobody knew. Finally
the man deserted her and left her to provide
for the children by her own labor, which she did.
One night he stole the children. The law de-
cided that, if she was a wifethe husband


should have the children, if she was a mistress,
she might have them. A fine distinction and
encouraging to matrimony! The man swore
that they were married, and the judge gave
him the children. Down in Kentucky a poor
woman worked three months with her needle
to buy a cow in order that she might have the
milk to raise her three little children. Her
husband “traded the cow for a gun, filled up
with whisky, and started on the war-path.”
The woman was helpless because in that State
the wife’s earnings belong to the husband.
These are mere straws, drift upon the current.
Similar cases are occurring every week out of
the fifty-two year after year. And yet well-
protected, happily-situated women, having no
thought for their less fortunate sisters will lean
back in calm complacency and say, “I have
all the rights I want and 1 am not willing that
the burdens should be lifted from the shoulders
Of other women.”
Do they know what are the laws regarding
Women in their own State? There are only
three or four States in the Union where a
mother has the right to her child. In the
oth rs, either the child belongs absolutely to
the father where he has not forfeited his right,
or where both are proved to be equally capable
of taking care of it, the law gives it . to the
father.In New York the father "may-will his
children away from the mother and at .his
death they will be taken from her and dis:
posed of'as directed. He may will away an
unborn child and at its birth it will be taken
from the mother’s arms. In every State in
the Union the joint earnings of the two belong
absolutely to the husband. In many States
the wife’s property, real and personal, becomes
the possession of the husband at marriage. In
others, if the wife dies without children the
husband takes all the property if he dies the
wife gets but one-third, and in some .instances
only ,a life interest in this. In a number.of
States if the woman earns furniture, clothes
arid food by her own labor, the husband may
sell them and pocket the money. If the wife
breaks an arm or leg she cannot iue for
damages, but the husband sues the cause of the
jnjury for the loss ofher services, and the
money belongs to him. In more than half
of the States little children, from seven to
twelve years of age, may consent to their own
ruin, aUd the mothers are powerless because
the law sanctions it.
in forty-three States women are forced to
pay the full amount of their taxes and are per-
mitted no representation, not even the privi-
lege of voting for the assessor. They-are
compelled to obey laws they have no voice in
making and, when accused of crime, they are
refused trial by a jury of their peers. Space
is too brief to mention all the inequalities of
the law. It is true there have been many
mprovements since the day when the old
commonlaw of England everywhere pre-
vailed, which gave a man the same ownership
of his wife as he had of his horse or cow, but
these changes have represented the labor of
years. It will also be found that almost with-
out exception, the champions who secured the
repeal of the obnoxious laws were pronounced
Woman-suffragists, and they will testify that
the difficulty has been infinitely greater be-
cause’they were working for a disfranchised
class. Our law makers represent their con- stituents, the ones who placed them in power.
They have an eye single to the interests of
those who posse33 the influence of the ballot.
They are not legislating for Chinese or Indians
or idiots or women. Women have the right of
petition, but legislators scorn a petition .which
3 not signed by voters. Massachusetts wo-
men petitioned twelve years for the right to
own the clothes upon tfieir backs. While the
natural progress of public sentiment may, in
the next fifty years, be sufficient tp striko.out
most of these unjust laws, is it necessary to
await the slow process of half a century? Can
any one doubt that if women were enfranchised
it would be one-fourth that time until there
would be an absolute equality of the laws?
it will be observed that in considering this
question only the equity has been noticed.
The social side, the effect of woman’s ballot
upon education,-temperance, morality, and
kindred matters, has b?en entirely omitted,
becnji3e there may be a variety of .opinions
upon these subjects but it does not seem pos-
sible that there can be a difference of senti-
ment upon the point that, in matters of justice
all should have the same privilege and the
laws should bear upon all alike. We ask our
readers of both sexes to' lay aside prejudice
and consider this subject from the standpoint
ef reason, logic and broad humanity,' and ,
answer the question whether a government can
be truly republican, which makes these insid-
ous distinctions.
Locomotive Firemen’s Magazine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEBER COUNTY W. S. A. 

	The Woman Suffrage Association of Weber
Co., held their regular monthly meeting in the
Fifth Ward Institute, Ogden City, Nov. 9,
1891. After the usual opening exercises Pres.
E. Y. Stanford addressed the association on
the benefits to be derived from the enfranchise-
ment of women. Read an extract from an ad-
dress delivered by Clara B. Colby, showing
what good had been accomplished by suffrage
in Wyoming.
	Mary Ann Wallace of North Ogden then
delivered the following address on Woman
Suffrage:
	“One of the greatest clouds in the intel-
lectual heavens of today is the question the
right of woman to vote on any and all of the
political issues of our times. The men of our
day are fond of pointing to the grand results
of increasing intelligence among the nations of
the earth. Are these nations composed of men
only? Are the general labors which contribute
to the support of the human race performed by
men alone? Do men make our homes the pure
and hallowed retreats which refresh and re-
new the soul? What is there in the nature of
man which makes him the superior of the wo-
man? Has man any higher source to which
he can trace his origin and existence? He
has drawn the essence of his life from woman
ho owes to woman his form, his intellect, his
brain, bone, and sinew, without her he never
could have seen the light of day, his ideas
have grown into shape under her motherly
care, and man, proud man is today in all his
strength of mind, body and intellect only
what woman has made him. There cannot
be any separate existence for man. God in
the dawn of Creation when he brought man
upon the earth stated this great truth “it is
not well for the man to be alone,”—but when
woman was brought upon the scene and they
were pronounced one then the Architect
finished His work and proclaimed it “very
good.” Let us look at the face of history and
we will find in its lessons the confirmation, of
these principles. Eve stood with Adam; she
being the mother of all living. Abraham and
his lovely Sarah are not separated by the his-
torian. Moses the great lawgiver was the
brother of the generous and great Miriam who
watched his little Ark upon the River Nile,
and the loving heart of a woman, Pharaoh’s
daughter, saved to the world this child to bless
mankind after her cruel father had condemned
him to the watery grave.
	The mother of Samuel the great Prophet
and Kingmaker in Israel; made a covenant
with God which changed her condition and
gave to Israel one of the greatest men known


in history. Jesus the Son of God was the
friend, companion and champion of women
and history tells us that woman was last at his
cross and first at his opening grave; woman
carried from the lips of Jesus the news of his
resurrection.
	Why then should woman be held back from
the Ballot Box, she stands the peer of man
in every other place."
	Short, but interesting speeches were then
made by Jane S. Richards, and Joseph Stan-
ford, Esq.
	After singing by the choir the meeting ad-
journed for one month.
		MARIAN S. WILCOX, Sec'y.


INTERESTING VISIT IN MILLARD
STAKE.

	On October the 29th, Scipio received a very
pleasant surprise, Apostle F. D. and Sister
Jane S. Richards arriving on that evening on a
visit to our settlement, and putting up at the
residence of their neice, Sister Emily L.
Thompson.
	In the evening we called upon them and in-
vited Sister Richards to visit all the branches
of the Relief Society of this Stake but telling
her that there was a considerable distance be-
tween some of the settlements, but if it was
not asking too much of her, we would be very
pleased to have her accompany us on a visit
to them all. Sister Richards very willingly
accepted our invitation and Brother Richards
kindly going with us.
	On the morning of the 30th, Sister Emily
L. Thompson ( president of the Relief Society
of this place) notified the people that a meet-
ing of the Relief Society would be held at
1 o'clock p. m., at which Brother and Sister
Richards would address the Saints. At the
time appointed we met together and received
very valuable and encouraging instructions.
At the close of the meeting at 4 p. m., car-
riages were ready to convey us to Holden. The
party consisting of Brother and Sister
Richards, Emily L. Thompson, Bishop Thomas
Yates and ourselves. We arrived in Holden
in time to partake of hasty refreshments at
Bishop Stevenson's and repair at once to their
beautiful meeting house where we found a
good attendance of brethren and sisters al-
ready assembled. We listened to most ex-
cellent instructions from Brother and Sister
Richards also short speeches from other
brethren and sisters.We all felt greatly
blessed and encouraged.
	Saturday morning, Oct. 31st we proceeded
to Fillmore, ten miles further south. Had a
pleasant drive as the air was fresh and bracing
and the day fine. Many of the brethren were
in from most of the wards of the Stake to at
tend Priesthood meeting, which convened at
10 o'clock a. m. There were two meetings of
the Priesthood which Apostle Richards at-
tended. There was no meeting of the Relief
Society on that day on account of the sisters
not being notified in time. On Sunday, Nov.
lst, attended Sabbath meeting in Fillmore in
the afternoon and in the evening a meeting of
the Relief Society. There was a good attend-
ance of brethren and sisters who paid marked
attention to the encouraging words of counsel
from Sister Richard also the kind, fatherly
discourse of Apostle Richards, who spoke in
high terms of the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of women.
	On Monday Nov. 2, had an appointment for
meeting at Kanosh, fifteen miles south of Fill-
more, at 10 o'clock a. m., and another at
Meadow, eight miles south of Fillmore at
2 o'clock p. m. We left Fillmore shortly after
8 o'clock a, m.. Stake President Ira M.
Hinckley and Counselors Daniel Thompson and
David R. Stevens accompanying us, and


furnishing conveyances to take us on. We
arrived at Kanosh at the time appointed hut
found funeral services being conducted over
the remains of a little boy Willie George who
had been burned to death. Brother Richards
made very comforting and consoling remarks
at the services.
	On account of the funeral we could not hold
Relief Society meeting. Part of the company
took dinner at Bishop Watkins and the balance
at Sister Adelia Kimball's, president of Relief
Society of Kanosh.
	We then started for Meadow, arrived at
2 o'clock p. m. There was a good attendance
of the people of that place also several wagon
loads of brethren and sisters from Kanosh and
one load from Fillmore. The house was
crowded and we held a three hours meeting,
and the spirit of God was poured out abund-
antly upon speakers and hearers. The speakers
were principally Brother and Sister Richards
and the Stake Presidency.
	At 5 o'clock p. m. left Meadow for Fill-
more. The Young Ladies,of this place had
called a special meeting for that evening. As
soon as we arrived some of them waited on
Sister Richards and other sisters of the party,
and invited them to come and talk to them.
A room in the State House was well filled
with ladies, principally yonng ladies. Sister
Richards and other sisters talked very plaiuly
to the girls and we think they will not soon
forget it. All paid marked attention and we
had an excellent meeting.
	Tuesday morning the parties above men-
tioned including the Stake Presidency, started
for Deseret, thirty miles northwest. We halted
about half way at a spring and partook of a
nice lunch. The weather was very pleasant
but the roads rather rough.
	The next mofning at 10 a. m., the three
wards Deseret, Hinckley, and Oasis met in the
school house at Deseret where we listened to
intensely interesting iustructions from Brother
and Sister Richards and others. Met again at
2 p.m., held a three hours meeting and had a
very full house. All seemed well repaid for
coming and thankful to all who had visitedthem.  
	Left next morning for Oak City. Held meet-
ing at 3 p. m. Some of the brethren and
sisters wished, another meeting there, but
Sister Richards was much fatigned from travel-
ing so far over rough, dusty roads so they had
to dispense with it.
	Friday we left Oak City for Leamington.
Held meeting at 3 p. m, and again received
excellent instructions from all.
	We were received everywhere very kindly
the brethren and sisters doing everything in
their power for our comfort. We all felt
thankful for this and most grateful to Brother
and Sister Richards for their counsel and en-
couragement. Their visit to this Stake will
long be remembered by the saints, and will
certainly result in a great amount of good.
We pray that their long and useful lives may
be lengthened, until they have accomplished
all the good their hearts desire.
	At 3 o'clock a. m. Nov. 7, Brother and
Sister Richards left Leamington by train for
their home in the north and later in the morn-
ing the rest of our company separated for
their homes, which we all reached in safety,
well pleased with our trip and thanking God
that his care had been over us, and for the
kindness of our brethren and sisters.
			ELIZABTH F. YATES,
		Pres. of Relief Society, Millard Stake.
			LORINDA E. THOMPSON,
			MARTHA J. ROBISON,
				Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
Manners carry the world for a moment
character for all times.

[Column 2]
	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE--324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS--8 to 10 a.m., 4 to 6 p.m.

[Column 3]
T E . WOMAN’S . TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D.C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre. 

R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

The 
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE

ROCKY MOUNTAINS!

Choice of Three Distinct Routes,

AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD

Two Fast Express Trains Daily

EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.

ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.

Direct Connections made in Union Depots. 
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.         
D. C. DODGE, Genl. Mgr. A. E. WELBY, Supt. J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A. 
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS


The death of Prince Albert Victor, eldest
son of the Prince of Wales, who was the
immediate heir to the throne, has softened
every heart towards the bereaved father.
Prince George Frederic, "Sailor Prince," now
becomes heir in the regular line of succession.
Other deaths of world wide interest are those
of M. Quatrefages de Breau, the well known
Director of the Museum of Natural History
in Paris; Professor Kuenen, the Biblical
scholar, at Leyden; and Charles A. White of
Boston, writer of popular songs and ballads.
A day later the death of Cardinal Manning is
announced, who, leaving the Church of 
England, became a convert to Roman
Catholicism in 1857. He was noted not only
as a writer of ecclesiastical books, but also for
his work in the cause of social and temperance
reform. On the same day, in Rome, Cardinal
Simeon, formerly Papal Secretary of State
died from La Grippe.
			Ex.


It is not work that kills men; it is worry.
Work is healthy; you can hardly put more
upon a man than he can bear. Worry is rust
upon the blade.
	Assuming the population of the world, ac-
cording to the latest estimates, to be about
1,450,000,000 it is estimated that 1,050,000,-
000 are non-Christians, and, of course, 400,-
000,000 only are Christians.


OBITUARY. 

	Died at Clarkston, Utah, Nov 9, 1891, Thaophania
Griffiths, daughter of the late William and Mary Griffin
was born Jan. 6, 1840, at Nanton, Beauchamp, England.
She emigrated to Salt Lake City in 1862, was married to
John Griffiths Nov. 22, and moved to Logan the same
year, moved to Clarkston 1864, at which place her hus-
band died Sep. 27, 1869. She was the mother of two sons
and three daughters.
	Sister Griffiths was chosen Treasurer of the Relief
Society in 1873, which position she held till the time of
her death; she was a faithful Latter-day Saint aud was very
much respected by all who knew her, she took pleasure in
doing good at all times and under all circumstances and
died in the hope of a glorious resurrection:
			Com.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Hannah Howe, who departed thi
life Dec. 24, 1891. She was born in Warwickshire, Eng-
land, Dec. 26, 1830. The wife of Thomas Howe, and the
mother of six children, four of whom are living to mourn
her loss.
	Whereas, the great Ruler of the universe has in His In-
finite wisdom, removed from our midst our worthy and
esteemed co-laborer—Hannah Howe—
	Whereas, the intimate relations held during a two years
membership in the Woman's Suffrage Association of
American Fork City, makes it fitting that we record our
appreciation of her.
	Therefore, be it resolved—that the wisdom and ability
which she has exercised in aid of this association—by
counsel, service and funds will be held in grateful remem-
brance.
	Resolved, that with deep sympathy with the afflicted
husband, children and friends of the deceased—we express
an earnest hope that even so great a bereavement may be
over-ruled for their highest good.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions, be sent to the
family also published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt
Lake City and the American Fork Independent, And the
same be placed upon the records of this Association.
			HANNAH S. LAPISH, Pres.
			MARY A. EVANS, Secy.
	Adopted this day Dec. 29, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

