	VOL. 20	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1891.	No. 4.


CONTENTS.
Answer to Little Girl’s Letter—Evadna.
Foreign Letter—Lib. May Wright Sewall’s Let-
ter. Woman’s Day at Chautauqua—Woman's
Tribune. Woman Suffrage — Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Death of James Russel Lowell. R.
S. Reports—Maricopa—Juab. American Fork
W. S. A. Weber Co., W. S. A. The Suffrage in
Victoria. Golden Wedding—H. B. B. The
White Cross Movement in Education.
EDITORIAL:—Women in Politics. Visit to
Kaysville. Editorial Notes. Charles Ellis' 
Pamphlet. Death of Sister Merrill. Again Com-
forted—M. E. K.
POETRY:—Singing Evermore—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. The Magic of Musical Echoes—E.
B.W. Zinlka Latuni—Augusta Joyce Crocheron.


SINGING EVERMORE.

Should I veil my face in passing
Thou would'st know me without sign,
Thou would'st know me still unchanged
As my own heart knoweth thine.
Though in solitude I dream on
Thou dost sit my soul beside,
Thou dost answer all my asking
O'er the distance dark and wide.

Other eyes may change their meaning
Wiser grown as years pass o'er,
But thine own rhyme with thy singing
Through the silence evermore.

All I strove to do, though failing—
Thou dost know the meaning's worth,
Waiting for the better future
To complete the hopes of earth.
Matters not though great or idle
Discords come and changes pass,
Time holds fresh as souls are deathless
What was valued in the past.

Often life may hush to silence,
All their praises done and o'er,
But thine own to me are singing
Through the silence evermore.
	AUGUST JOYCE CROCHERON.
August 9th, 1891.


THE MAGIC OF MUSICAL ECHOES.

There's a strain of music floats on the breeze,
And its echoes, the rhythm of fairies tell,
And mingling with notes of the sighing trees
It enchants the soul with a weird-like spell.
And the sweetest visions of long ago
Are afloat on the summer breeze again,
And we pause as we think of times swift flow,
And we listen to catch the sad refrain.
The thoughts that come with that musical strain
Bring the past enrapt in a mystic light—
And the halo of memory once again,
Beams dim o'er our path on a moonlit night—
Away in the shadowy, hazy past,
Ere clouds had darkened the azure skies;
Our pulses were quick, and our hearts beat fast,
And earth in its beauty seemed Paradise.
The tender chords of the heart may be stirr'd
By a sweet strain of music soft, and low,
Repeating the echoes that erst were heard
From the depths of the years of  long ago.
A lingering sweetness of cherish'd hours,
Sweeps through our lives as we journey along
As delicate perfume from fragrant flowers,
Or the melody of some long-lost song,
Which wake in our soul where remembrance stays,
The joys which e'en time can never outlive;


And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days
A nameless charm doth their influence give.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
ANSWER TO A LITTLE GIRL'S
LETTER.

	Smithfield, June 16th, 1891.
	MY DARLING SISTER: 
	Your dear, pleasant letter, descriptive of
your journey, (through the Geography), was
duly received, thrice read, and much appre-
ciated.—One point, I wondered at your hav-
ing missed; didn’t your guide direct you to
the world famed Falls of Niagara? I should
like to have had your opinion of them.—
Wouldn’t it be fine if we could really travel,
you and I, and visit some of those places of
interest?—
	But sometimes I wonder if we, young peo-
ple favored to be Utah born, duly appreciate
the grandeur and beauty of scenery by which
we are surrounded, here at home; or if we
realize as we should, the peaceful, happy cir-
cumstances under which we have been privi-
leged to be born and reared; I fear that often
we do not.
	Today I have been strolling by the lovely
clear stream that flows through, and gladdens
the heart of this settlement. Have gathered
sweet, wild flowers; rested in a quiet, shady
nook; listened to the songs of praise from the
throats of the feathery warblers which inhabit
the tree tops, and heard also the voice of
thanksgiving in the sound of the rippling
waters, as they sped onward, joyously fulfilling
the parts assigned them in the great perform-
ance of Nature. And my own heart was
awakened to a sense of the deep gratitude due
from me to my Heavenly Father, for His
abundant mercies. Thoughts of my dear
home, which it is now nearly a year since I left,
recalled to memory’s view, the peaceful
thoughtful face of my father, who still remains
to comfort, encourage and instruct his little
flock, and lead them in the path of truth and
honor. My gentle mother, too, whose fair
face smiles beneath a crown now tinged with
gray, and whose dear voice I seemed to hear
exclaim, “Oh! Father bless my absent child,
and bring her safe to me again.” And Auntie,
with her kind and loving heart. My brothers
brave and true; my sisters pure and chaste
and happy hearted, all gathering round the
hearth at home.—But now they do not gather
as in days gone by. For men who know
nothing of the joys which we have known, say
we must no longer dwell in peace as we have
hitherto done. And God, for some wise pur-
pose suffers it to be so now. But though
power is granted men to separate us in our
homes, they cannot break the band of love
which unites our hearts, thrt one strong band
of everlasting love. And though they may
disturb, they cannot destroy our peace of mind.
Those whose hearts are united in the love of
Christ, whose lives are spent in doing good,
who strive to know and do the will of God,
seeking to gain Eternal lives in the world to
come, will always find much to rejoice over.
	These and many other reflections have passed
through my mind. And while all nature lifts
the voice of praise to the Great Creator, shall
not we praise Him too with prayer and song,
for His protecting care?

[Column 2]
	While listening to the gentle ripple of the
stream, and watching its playful, sparkling
dimples, I thought, how like its wayward, noisy
course, had the hours of my childhood glided
by. No clouds of care or trouble ever made
me sad, or even thoughtful of the great waves,
of the rushing tide so soon to be reached in the
busy life of womanhood; the days, weeks,
months and years passed so swiftly by. To-
day, for the first time in eighteen years, I have
plucked wild flowers within the shady grove,
where oft in childhood I, with other free,
light-hearted children played.
	On my way to this place, as the train
rounded the point of the mountain, emerging
from the canyon, and coming into full view of
this beautiful valley, I gazed upon the home
where I had passed the happiest days of my
childhood, the place in which all my school
days were spent; bright days long to be re-
membered; loved teachers, never to be for-
gotten. I called to mind the first lines of one
of the beautiful songs our uncle D. sings:
	
	“Fond recollections, like visions steal o'er me,
	Taking me back to my once happy home;
	Scenes of my childhood are ever before me,
	Fresh in my memory, wherever I roam.”

	Then I scanned briefly the pages of memory’s
volume, turning them one by one, and noting
the swiftly changing, shifting scenes; sometimes
smooth and clear as summer skies, and some-
times dark and cloudy. But I am not going
to dwell on sorrowful themes. You should see
uncle D. and his wife, if you would behold,
what seems to me, a perfect representation of
wedded life. They are so well suited to each
other, and so happy in each other’s love.  And
what picture can be more interesting than
such a reality as this?
	In a little book which aunt has lent me, I
find these lines:

	O FAIREST OF THE RURAL MAIDS.

	“Oh fairest of the rural maids!
	Thy birth was in the forest shades,
	Green boughs and glimpses of the sky,
	Were all that met thy infant eye,

	Thy sports, thy wanderings, when a child,
	Were ever in the sylvan wild;
	And all the beauty of the place
	Is in thy heart and on thy face.

	The twilight of the trees and rocks
	Is in the light shades of thy locks,
	Thy step is as the wind that weaves
	Its playful way among the leaves.”
	W.C. BRYANT.

	Now Hattie, I consider this a long, long let-
ter for me to have written, don’t you? Please
share it with all the loved ones at home, and
answer promptly, for you know how anxiously
your letters are watched for by,
	Your affectionate sister,
	EVADNA.


FOREIGN LETTER.

	Douglas, Isle of Man July 5, 1891.
DEAR MARY:
Since I last wrote to  you I have seen
several places. Castletown is a very, very
old town, which was once inhabited by
smugglers. The houses are all very strongly
built, the walls very thick to resist attacks


The town derives its name from Castle
Rushen, which is a more imposing and
majestic than picturesque castle. It was
thought to have been built 947 from those
figures in Arabic, which were found cut on an
old beam in a recess behind the old gateway,
by some workmen who were making alterations
in the building; “but the ground for this
assumption was completely cut away by the
fact that Arabic figures were unknown in
Europe for nearly three centuries later A.
D. 947.” The wall around the Castle is 25
feet high and 9 feet thick In the Castle is a
curious old clock which was presented by
Queen Elizabeth in 1597. The clock has
been ticking ever since with the exception of
the time for repairs.
	A few days ago Ma and I took a long
walk into the country.  We walked two
miles along such pretty lanes, with the butter-
cups, daisies and other wild flowers growing
on the grass by the roadside and in the fields.
We passed some gipsies who wanted to tell
our fortunes, but we did not care to have
them told. There were many fruits and
flowergardens along the road. We went into
one and bought some strawberries in a cabbage
leaf. They had a delicious flavor just fresh
from the garden.
	We had horrible weather a week ago, but
for the last few days, it has been fine lovely
and warm.
	Yesterday the fonrth of July it was a lovely
sunny day, the sea had scearcely a ripple on
on it. Of course there were no celebrations
here. Today it is very windy and it has been
raining almost continually.
	We have moved from the place we were
staying first in a house just above it, as at the
first place, the owners of it had rented their
apartments to some one else before we
had decided to stay a week longer. In the
dining room we have now, there is a book
case full of good books with which we amuse
ourselves, when we are not out of doors.
	July 13:—I haven’t been anywhere much
since writing you last except to Saxey to
see Saxey wheel. We went on a steamer, it
is only about seven miles from Douglas.
The wheel is a huge affair. Just imagine
a wheel fully as tall when standing on the
ground as a four story house, each story as
high as ours at home. There was a winding
staircase to go up to the top, but I didn’t care
to go. A man who went up was just shaking
when he came down and he said he never felt
so nervous in his life as when he was up at the
top. The wheel is used in a lead mine to
draw the water out.
	Many of the girls here have lovely hair
and complexions, but their teath are almost
all bad.*	*
	It seems a shame, but I wonder if it is not
with drinking so much hot tea. Most of
them have tea four times a day, two cups at
each meal. The landladies think we are very
strange as we do not care for the English tea
and do not have supper just before we go to
bed at 10 o’clock. *	*	*
	Your Loving Friend.
	LIB.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL’S LETTER.

	The anticipated conference of French wo-
men with Mrs. Potter Palmer, referred to in a
former letter, took place at Mrs. Palmer's
apartments in the Grand Hotel, on the after-
noon of July 1. The first part of it assumed
the character of an informal reception. About
forty persons were present, who constituted
quite a distinguished assembly. M. and Mme.
De Morsier, M. and Mme. Bogelot, M. Mansais,
L. Poeot. Mme. Marie Martin, and Mme.
Kôchlin Schwartz, with other representatives
[Column 2]
of the French Congress, recalled the committee
meetings of 1889. The presence of Mme.
Yoes Gyat (wife of the minister of Public
Works) with Mlle. Gyat, her daughter, of M.
Jules Siegfried, (one of the most influential
members of the Chamber of Deputies,) and 
Mme Siegfried, and the arrival of M. Jules
Simon lent a sort of official recognition to the
affair.
	Among Americans present may be named
Mrs. J. Robert  McKee, Mrs. Russell Harrison,
Mrs. John A. Logan (accompanied by her son
and daughter-in-law), and Mr. Theodore
Stanton. Among other interesting people
whom we met was M. Napoleon Ney (grandson
of the illustrious Marshal Ney), who is deeply
interested in modern sociel problems, and
whose wife is conspicuously identified with
various charitable works conducted by wo-
men.
	Mrs. Palmer received and entertained her
guests with much grace and cordiality. After
an hour spent in sociability and in partaking
of delicate refreshments, Mme. DeMorsier
called the meeting to order and explained its
objects. Mrs. Palmer followed with an ac-
count of the formation of the Board of Lady
Managers, and a statement of its wishes in re-
spect to foreign countries. Great interest was
manifested, and many inquiries propounded
particularly by M. Jules Siegfried, who evi-
dently thought it more important that the ad-
vancement of French women in liberal ideas,
in charities, in education, and in associated
effort should be represented in the various 
congresses to be held in connection with the 
Exposition, than that the actual results of their
industry should be displayed in the Exposition
itself.
	I had been advised that I should be asked to
speak on behalf of the International Council
of Women to be convened in Chicago in 1893;
but, fearing that the discussion of the Council
would result in confusing the minds of those
less thoroughly informed concerning its organ-
ization than are Mme. De Morsier and her
immediate associates, I asked Mme. De Morsier
to excuse me, so that the entire time of the for-
mal séance might be given to discussing the
representation of women's work in our great
Fair. I, however had an opportunity to talk
about the Council in private conversation with 
many of the leaders here, and I have every
reason to believe that men and women alike of
the progressive school will exert themselves to
see that several representative delegates from
organizations of French women sit in the
Council of '93.
	An amusing incident of the conference was
a lively discussion in regard to the construc-
tion of the honorary committee. The name
of M. Jules Siegfried was suggested, but the
nomination, though heartily supported by all
present, was positively declined by the nomi-
nee, who boldly asserted that it was unfitting
to place any man at the head of such a com-
mittee, and advocated with no little eloquence
the propriety of placing Mme. De Morsier at
the head of a committee composed entirely of
women, with the understanding that the gen-
tlemen interested should form a sort of un-
official advisory board. However, all the wo-
men present evidently thought a man at its
head absolutely essential to the dignity of the
committee, and the friendly dispute was termi-
nated by the arrival of M. Jules Simon, who,
upon Mme. De Morsier's motion, accepted the
honorary presidency of the committee, to the
evident surprise of some, but the equally evi-
dent satisfaction of all parties. With this ac-
tion the formal conference adjourned to con-
vene at the same place on the following day,
Thursday, July 2, at two o'clock.
	In this second conference I also had the pleas-
ure of participating. There were present only
fourteen, but the number included no Americans
[Column 3]
excepting Mrs. Palmer and myself, and the
serious enthusiasm with which preliminary
committees were made up and practical  ques-
tions discussed augurs well for the representa-
tions of French women in the Exposition of
'93.
	Arrangements were made to bring the mat-
ter properly before the government in order to
secure its approval and aid. The result of
Mrs Palmer's interview with the minister I
have not learned, as on July 3 we left Paris,
where we had lingered a week beyond our
original plan, in order that I might use the op
portunities afforded by the various conferences
and meetings going forward at this time to en-
list the sympathies and interest of the French
women in the International Council of Women
and to watch the steps being taken to con-
federate their own various societies into a
National Council of women of France. Their
steps are being taken with great circumspec-
tion, but the result is considered assured by
those who are best informed concerning the
progress of social reform in this country.
	Rome, July 14, '91.
					The Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S DAY AT OLD
CHAUTAUQUA.

	A letter just received from Miss Anthony
gives a glowing account of the programe
carried out Chautauqua, New York by the
Chautauqua County Political Equality clubs
and on invitation of Bishop Vincent.
	Miss Anthony writes that Bishop Vincent
himself welcomed the Clubs and their friends
and sat through the first address "that of dear
Mother Wallace, who in her own way rescued
the Bible from its old interpretation against
equality of rights for women." We quote a
brief notice of the day from the Jamestown
Sunday News:—
	"The platform was appropriately decorated
with bunting, flowers, drapery and banners.
Over the speakers' heads was an enormous
banner inscribed "Political Equality!" flanked
by others, bearing the legends, "Woman's
Ballot means Enlarged Opportunities for do-
ing Good," and "Governments Derive Their
Just Powers from the Consent of the Gov-
erned." Around were grouped the beautiful
silk insignia of a local Political Equality
club.
	County President Elnoras N. Babcock, of
Dunkirk, presided, supported by the other
officers of the county P. E. organization. Not
less than a full regiment - one thousand ladies
proudly wore the gold tinted badges that pro-
claimed them either affiliated with the P. E.
club or avowed suffragists. Lilly Dale sent
a contingent of a round hundred, and every
township in the county was well represented.
As the day cleared auspiciously the amphi-
theater was filled by five thousand enthusiastic 
listeners. 
	Mrs. Zerelda G. Wallace received a merited
ovation, not only by her address on political
equality, but as an ideal American matron.
	Rev. Anna Shaw's grand physique domi-
nated the rostrum and her resonant voice
penetrated to the remotest tiers of the thronged
amphitheater, and her cogent eloquence was
worthy of the magnificent audience, the occa-
sion and her august theme," "The Fate of
Republics," which competent critics pro-
nounced the most statesmanlike discourse ever
given in western New York.
	Woman's day was justified by the reception
given to that intrepid Arnold Winkelried of
women, Miss Susan B. Anthony.—Woman's
Tribune.


A man who will lie on his knees won't tell
the truth anywhere.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ZINTKA LATUNI.
(LITTLE LOST BIRD.)
Cold fell the snow on the mountains,
Fierce fell the fire of the foe, 
Yet safe in her fur cov'ring
Little Lost Bird slumbered low.
Cold were the arms of her mother
Clasping her still though in death,
Her lips answ'ring not with caresses
Little Lost Bird's tender breath. 

Then when the dead were all counted,
The wounded gathered aside;
'Mid voices of soldiers and red men—
A baby in loneliness cried!
Lifting her out from the death clasp,
To the General's tent she was borne, 
And in pity, he claimed from the carnage
The babe that the Nation made mourn.

Far from her birthplace and people
They bore her with tenderest care,
For the heart of the man, in the Soldier
Was reached by the dead mother's prayer.
Now in the home of the General—
They keep her sweet Indian name;
O, Lost Bird! may the soul of thy tribe
Stay with thee forever the same.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON
Feb 91.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	The spectacle of American women ( in this
"Land of the free and the home of the brave,")
convening in serious assembly to present their
views and wishes, and claiming that they have
not already, all the rights and privileges of free 
born citizens in a country whose CONSTITUTION
sets forth the statement that "all men are born
free and equal;" seems at first thought strange. 
But, knowing it to be an undisputed fact, that this 
is figurative rather than real, it may be wisdom
to illustrate the inefficiency of poetic and 
chilvalric sentiment, to compensate for the lack
of the legal and more substantial certainty of 
woman's rights. That American women are 
pre-eminently high souled, patriotic, devotional
intellectual, energetic and industrious, is ac-
knowledged. Brave, upon the frontiers of her 
country, faithful in adversity and strong in 
hope for the future of her children reared in 
the solitudes afar from the splendors of civili-
zation, deeming not even the Senate or the 
Presidency an impossibility for them; who shall
dare to call her weak-minded and incapable of 
attaining to greater usefulness that housewifery.
She who has built well, by her spirit and labors
the foundation stones of manhood and woman-
hood, - must she stand back behind those
pillars of strength that her spirit has guided
and reared aloft and be seen only as a shadow
of their greatness? Think of the mother of 
Lincoln, the mother of Garfield! When the 
victory of Washington was achieved he 
hastened to pay his respects to his aged
mother. At the Inaugural of Garfield, at its 
conclusion he turned first to kiss the mother who
had the place of honor beside him. Were all
men like these in nobility of soul, there would 
never be need of a Woman Suffrage Association;
and though there may be thousands of men as
noble and tender in their households yet the 
lever of justice is needed to "leaven the whole 
lump" of humanity. 
	Our own States and Territories differ in 
their own laws for women and children, there is 
not a uniformity of legal protection and justice
throughout America. A man may do in one 
State what in another would be an outrage.
In one eastern State an Amercian girl married a 
foreigner and her husband had legal authority 
to send her children to Europe to be educated
and detained her at home. Another on his death 

[Column 2]
bed bequeathed his three children to his own
relatives in China, and left so little a portion to 
their mother that she was unable to follow
them, nor could she legally do so.
	A noted actress became intemperate, because
her husband pocketed the large sums which 
her popularity and ability earned, spent it in 
high living and gambling and doled out to her
what he considered proper. Had he a right
to her earnings? A man of humbler origin, 
refused to work for less than three and a half 
a day, because it would be lowering himself in 
the eyes of his trade (mining,) so he stolidly 
waited, "holding the fort" of his dignity all 
summer, while his wife went out washing five
days in the week to provide for six children,
pay the rent and furnish him with tobacco and
overalls. Thus, the dignity of manhood and
the submission of wife were properly sustained.
Thus; the lights and shadows are scattered
over land, - forever passing before us is an 
endless panorama of scenes that enliven or dis-
hearten the thoughtful. Where woman is so 
much concerned, can it be inappropriate for
her sisters of freer spirit and stronger courage
to speak in her behalf? Can it be wrong for 
those noble and generous of nature, touched by 
sympathy, to inquire into our laws and see if 
something cannot be done for those less fortu-
nate? What harm or injury has ever resulted
from woman's studying Law a little? What
if certain eminent ladies learned and famous
have quarrelled! Have not eminent legal
gentlemen done the same? And have not per-
sons with no attainments at all quarrelled also?
It ever takes a cause to produce a result!
	Then, again, of our cause or reason is good, 
(for humanity's sake) for studying law or poli-
tics, why not go ahead? As the opposite sex
has crossed over into our domestic domain
and taken some of our avocations from us, why
should we not overtake the invader and capture
some of his professions and emoluments? If
men in certain eastern cities have the right to
control the laundries, and give ladies' clothing
into the Chinaman's hands to wash, thus tak-
ing that branch of business from women, is it
not time that free women arose and said some-
thing?
	But we must not look on the study of poli-
tics as either aggressive or defensive, though
sometimes such are its uses.
	The study of politics is one of the grandest
and perfect, next to religion; in reality one of
the powers of God. It is a portion of His
grand system. I once heard an illiterate man
thus begin a prayer: "Almighty God, King
of Heaven and earth." This is a truth. Can we
think of Him otherwise than as a King? And 
how can it otherwise than enoble and
strengthen us, if we study government, order, 
and justice from the highest and best of earthly
sources, seeking also by the spirit of prayer
and the words of revelation, the more perfect
plan.
	The most beloved Sovereign on earth is a
woman, her Court the purest in morals, her
judges beyond bribes, her soil a refuge for the 
persecuted, and - Oh, America! there the 
Apostles of Truth and the humble convert to 
the faith are safe from mobs, and Courts of
bigotry. "The sun sets not on Her dominions,
and its eternal lights and warmth are the em-
blems of her rule and reign. Look upon 
Victoria, Queen of England, and Empress of
India and judge! by that beacon light so high
that all the world can see, if study - attain-
ments, splendor and power; knowledge the 
broadest and highest, opportunities unlimited -
and freedom unrestricted have made her less a 
wife, - less a mother, - less an honored woman?
	Daughters of Zion, our Heavenly King and
Father has shown us along the pages of His
Holy Book, what woman has been, with His 
approval; and He has a work for us in the 

[Column 3]
future. We were called upon to take be
ginners' lessons in our different Associations
and Societies, and felt weak at first but learning
our duties, found them not too hard. Perhaps
it will be the same in this new branch of knowl-
edge. Let us learn all we may and do the
best we can to help womanhood. The voice
of the many is a power, and, according to the 
Census, women outnumber men; therefore, the
majority of our sex, and the weight of our sex's 
claims for justice weigh heavily in the balance.
We are willing to step into the scales. Gentle-
men - assist us to ascend the steps, and please, 
remain by our side.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	May 26, 1891.


DEATH OF JAMES RUSSEL LOWELL.

Boston, August 12;—At the mansion of
Elmwood estate, where Lowell died, there are
no members of the family today but the
daughter and son-in-law of the poet. His body
lies in the sleeping apartment where the last
hours of his life were spent. His death was
extremely peaceful. Although it was known
he could not live much longer, his death was
nevertheless rather unexpected. The transition
from sleep to death was so easy that for a few
moments nobody in the room observed that he
had ceased to breathe. His eyes were closed
and they never opened. He passed away with
only a heavy sigh to indicate the separation
of a great soul from a worn-out body. The
funeral will be held Friday at noon in Ap-
pleton Chapel, Cambridge. It is probable that
Bishop-elect Phillips Brooks will officiate.
	Lowell's health has been impaired ever
since his return to this country in 1855, after
concluding his diplomatic services abroad. A
year and a half ago his condition became
serious and a fatal termination was feared, but
his health then had a chance of recovery.
Mrs. Burnett, his only child, has been with him
constantly. She is his only near relative except
a brother, whose whereabouts is unknown.
	It appears that the poet was taken sick
about five weeks ago. About two weeks or
more ago he became delirious, and up to
Monday he recovered consciousness only at
brief intervals, when he gave the members of
his family signs of recognition. Monday after-
noon, when the nurses changed his bedding he
suffered intensely when moved, and finally said:
"Oh, why don't you let me die." Those words
were his last. He seemed from that time to
lose heart, and gradually his life faded away.
He continued in a comatose condition until
5:15 o'clock this morning, when the last spark
of life went out. Beside him in his last mo-
ments were the sister of his first wife, his
daughter, Mrs. Edward Burnett, and her hus-
band, the ex-congressman, as well as the nurses
and servants of the household.


The English suffragists, always active; are
stirred afresh by the announcement of Lord
Salisbury. The dames of the Primrose League
are said to be earnestly considering the
propriety of seeking for suffrage in accordance
with the Premier's suggestion, in order to
promote the triumph of Conservative principles.
On the other hand the Woman's Herald
quotes from meetings of Liberal Leagues in
many places, urging immediate action to
induce the Executive Council of the National
Liberal Association, at its meeting next
October, to place woman suffrage on the
Liberal programme. The National Society
for Woman Suffrage is also moving "to put
the female franchise in the forefront, and to
start an active campaign on the subject all over
the country."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT	

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		                      Editor.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms: 
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No 
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.  
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers. 
EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH. 

   Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST 15, 1891.


WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	Almost every day and sometimes more than
once in a day we are asked the question, "What
are you women going to do in political matters in
Utah?" Occasionally one adds "are you going to
organize on national lines?" I suppose people
think, newspaper women are the ones who ought
to talk or have an opinion on the subject.
	As for doing, studying politics to begin with
and finding out how few rights women have com-
pared to men, and how far they are protected in
those few rights, might do to begin with, con-
sidering, the Edmund's Tucker law dealt such a
sweeping blow to all women voters, that there is
scarcely a shadow of a chance to have the fran-
chise restored until very radical changes take place
in the condition of things in this Territory.
	It is possible, to be sure, for women to decide
in their own minds, whether they lean more to the
Republican or Democratic party, but it is an old
saying "the proof of the pudding is in eating it,"
and as neither the one or the other of these or-
ganizations seem disposed to recognize women
in any positive way, women are not very likely to
do more than to look on, and see those who have
it in their own hands, appreciate all the golden
opportunities to benefit themselves.
	It is sometimes a good thing to stand and wait,
and as waiting seems to be about the only thing
women can do at present in a political way, per-
haps its just as well to keep silence too, though
"they do say" that is impossible for women.
There is an opportunity to look on and learn and
if failures are useful lessons, there may be some-
thing gained.
	The Woman Suffrage Associations throughout
the Territory ought to be wide awake in plans
and methods of study that will give them practi-
cal as well as theoretical information, that will
be available at any and every point where wo-
men can help in securing good and honest gov-
ernment for all even if they do have to pay taxes,
and have no voice in saying what shall be done
with the money.
	There are some places in which woman's help
may be asked for, and certainly many places
where it is needed, even if she has no vote. The
way matters stand here with reference to women
it would be best to work for the Sixteenth
Amendment to Congress. In fact we always
have believed in the Sixteenth Amendment, that
would be killing a good many birds with one
stone. That would help all women and when
they had the ballot secured to them by an act of
Congress, it wouldn't be possible for the Legis-
lature or Governor of any State or Territory to
say it wasn't legal and whisky rings couldn't
buy up the votes and enter protest. Our idea is
the sixteenth amendment, and by that time we
will have studied the national questions and
[Column 2]
policies pretty thoroughly, and be prepared to
decide. In the mean time if there is any open-
ing for women, any possible chance to give her
political equality, there are those shrewd enough
to observe it, and report all along the line; so
that immediate action could be taken.
	Women are sufficiently interested in each other
to watch the progress of affairs politically as well
as spiritually, and to take advantage of any
suggestion that will promote the advancement
of their interest. The signs of the times signify
the onward progress that is being made through
organized effort, and the effective help women are
likely to render each other and all humanity in
the great upward movement. The increase of
love towards one another through these united
efforts is one of the most hopeful signs of the
age. The gathering together of women of so
many Nationalities and assimilating their thoughts
and ideas is almost a marvel. Even here in Utah
how many different nations are represented in
Womens' Associations. It proves conclusively
that there is a power and influence binding women
together, such as has not been heretofore; this
spirit pervades the most highly civilized and en-
lightened portions of the earth. No one can
doubt this who reads of the great organizations
of women all over the United States, Canada,
Great Britain, France, Scandinavia, and many
other countries of the old world. While all these
great events are transpiring outside, we at home
in Utah will assuredly be occupied with important
matters, civil, political, educational, and spiritual;
therefore it behooves the women of Utah to study
and find out the great underlying principles of all
good government, and note how these principles
are applied in the national parties, but it does not
yet appear to be the time of woman's choosing in
political issues until further developments of diffi-
cult questions now pending are made in this Terri-
tory.


[Column 1]
		VISIT TO KAYSVILLE.

	On Aug. 7 in company with Sister Elizabeth
Howard we had the pleasure of attending the Re-
lief Society Conference of Davis Stake held at
Kaysville- Bishop Peter Barton was present and
offered. the opening prayer.  Mrs. Susan Grant
presided at the meeting; both of her Counselors
Mrs. Mary S. Clark, and Mrs. Jane Holt were
present, Mrs. Phebe Sessions read the minutes of
the previous quarterly Conference which were
exceedingly interesting.  Reports were then read
from the several branches in the Stake showing the
condition of each organization.  We were greatly 
surprised at the amount of work that had been
done by the sisters especially in Kaysville. Mrs.
Sarah B. Layton who presides over the Relief 
Society in that place, in untiring in her energy and
is possessed of indomitable perseverance.  The
sisters there have been liberal in their donations
to the Deseret Hospital for which they deserve
thanks and appreciation; they not only pay their
monthly dues but there are quite a number of 
sisters too who have kept up their membership
fees and in many places this has been sadly 
neglected.  The associations at Kaysville have
also given fruit, quilts and other things which
have been very gratefully received and although
no public acknowledgement has been made, these
acts of kindness from the benevolent are duly ap-
preciated by the members of the Board of Di-
rectors who have had a hard struggle to keep up
the institution.
	Pres. Grant made some opening remarks
warmly welcoming the visitors and the congrega
tion, she was followed by Sister Howard who
spoke freely upon the present situation of the
people, the signs of the times, and the encourag-
ing hopes held out in the future to those who
could stand steadfast in the midst of trials, and
[Column 2]
endure to the end.  Her remarks were excellent
and she spoke in a very forcible and impressive
manner.  Counselor Mary S. Clark spoke with
much earnestness and power, of the past, present
and future of this people; and dwelt, upon
obedience to the commandments of God.  Sister
Sarah B. Layton spoke of her joy in the labors
she performed and her desire to ever keep in the 
straight and narrow way.  Rejoiced in all the prin-
ciples that had been revealed knew they were all
true and were for the salvation of all who would
obey them and live rightous and upright lives.
Sister Margaret Randall also bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we are
engaged and expressed herself desirous of doing
good to all and assisting in every good work.
The day was a remarkably fine one, and the
green fields and orchards loaded with fruit were
a pleasant sight to behold;  the new mown hay
was everywhere agreeably fragrant and the
flowers abundant. The sisters dined at Sister
Sarah Layton’s and the visit during dinner was
very enlivening. It goes without saying that the
table was loaded with delicacies for Sister Lay-
ton’s hospitality is widely known.
	There was a much larger attendance at the
afternoon meeting and the Primary Associations
were present, to sing for the Conference which
was a very pretty idea, and their fresh young 
voices made sweet melody and the music was an
inspiration in itself.  Brother Phillips made the
opening prayer, the writer addressed the sisters
upon various subjects pertaining mostly to the
progress of the work of the organizations,
gave a sketch of the visit of the wo-
men delegates to the National Council
and made some explanations in regard to
the Council its design and the privilege to be
obtained through being connected with it.  Coun-
selor Jane Holt made a few timely remarks, and
after singing and benediction the meeting was ad-
journed for three months.  These reunions among
the sisters are productive of great good in the in-
terchange of ideas and methods of work whether 
spiritual or temporal; and always promote union
of spirit and harmony of purpose.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Woman's Tribune is certainly one of the
best papers in the United States for women. It
gives general information on all subjects in which
women are interested. It is published weekly in
in Beatrice, Neb., and during the winter in Wash-
ington, D. C. 
	President Zina D. H. Young and Counselor
Jane S. Richards of the Presidency of the Relief
Society attended the quarterly Conference of the
R. S. of  Morgan Stake on Saturday Aug. 1st
and also the Conference of the Young Ladies'
Associations of that Stake. Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze 
of the Y. L. M. I. A. went up to the Conference
of the Young Ladies' and we are informed that
they had a most interesting time, and an excellent
spirit and feeling with good instructions in all the
meetings. In Ogden Sisters Young and Richards
attended a meeting of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation and addressed the ladies. 
Sister Hannah Sorenson who has been giving
lectures on health and hygiene, and subjects con-
nected therewith, also teaching nursing and
kindred subjects to classes of ladies for some
time past,  and meeting with excellent success
and appreciation in the different settlements
where she has taught, has been invited to speak
to select audiences of gentlemen only in Spring-
ville, and complied with the request after some
deliberation. Why should not a woman Doctor 
speak to men as well as men, Doctors to women?
One seems no more inconsistent than the other.
There ought to be one code of morals for both


sexes and that is what people of advanced views
upon reforms are working to bring about.
 
 Sister Olivia Widerborg, President of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, in company
with the Presidency of the Stake, has re-
cently visited Snowville, Park Valley, and
Grouse Creek, at each of which places district
conferences were held lasting two days. Presi-
dent Widorberg was invited to speak at each of
these places in connection with the brethren; she
enjoyed herself very much and was given the ut-
most liberty and treated with the utmost cordiality
by the brethren traveling. These districts are so
far removed from the centre of the Stake where
the quarterly conferences are held that it
is impracticable for the people to attend, there-
fore the necessity for these district conferences

The Secretaries of the Relief Society in the
Salt Lake Stake are earnestly requested to send
semi-annual reports correctly prepared to the
Secretary of the Relief Society of the Stake,
Elizabeth Howard, No. 58. E. 4th South St. Salt
Lake City. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne has visited
nearly every R. S. in this Stake during the past
few months. In nearly every branch visited the
sisters are energetic and persevering, desirous of
performing every duty, and anxious to make
spiritual improvement, as well as to take care of
the needy and the sick. These visits of Pres.
Horne and her Counselors and aids will be bene-
ficial in promoting harmony, unity and love, and
in encouraging all to press forward and be more
and more diligent and faithful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHARLES ELLIS’ PAMPHLET.

   We have only recently scanned the pages of the
pamphlet by “Charles Ellis” (non-Mormon) en-
titled, “Utah 1847 to 1870,” although we had
previously heard two of his famous lectures in
the Theatre in this City. The little book seems
to be a very concise account of the condition
and circumstances of this people during the
period mentioned and also of the treatment they
received during that time from the government
officials and the mobs etc.
   Mr. Ellis’ description of what we term the
grasshopper famine, is quite graphic, and in ad-
dition to what he has told there, thousands of
other similar facts might be given to the world,
and many hundreds of the saints are still living
witnesses of these truths. When we recall circum-
stances which came under our own observation,
the tears will start in despite of every effort to
hinder their falling. Remembering the hard-
ships and privations of those early years in the
valley and the exodus from Nauvoo, the writer
can never listen to murmurings or complaints
without alluding to the past. It seems as though
the hardest-hearted must weep over the famine
for bread in the land. Is it any wonder in view
of these things that mothers should be anxious
to store up grain against another such fearful
time? Mothers whose children have cried for
bread when there was none to give them, are very
likely to impress this solemn fact upon their
daughters if not their sons. This little book
written by one who is not a believer in the Mor 
mon faith but only looks at the matter honestly
and fairly ought to be widely circulated to help in
removing prejudice against this people, who are
struggling to secure and to maintain good gov-
ernment and equal rights to all parties, Mormon,
Jew or Gentile who settle within the Territory.
   The compliment he has paid to Brigham Young
is every word of it true and much more might be
said; even the outside world are beginning to ac-
knowledge the greatness and magnanimity of the
character of this departed leader. Mr. Ellis says
as others do quoting their words, “Brigham was
a great man.” Speaking of him in the following
terms.
   “He was; and when the world sees him as he
was; when the clouds of falsehood condensed
above the quagmires of hate have been scattered
by the sun of truth and the world is permitted for
the first time to see the man, it too will declare
that Brigham Young was a great man! From 1847
to 1870, through trials that would have left an
average man defeated and broken before he had
fairly entered upon them, he was a William of
Orange, a Cromwell, and to his own people, a
Washington.
   His enemies have never wearied of pointing to
the great walls he had built in Salt Lake as evi-
dence that he was preparing to defy the govern-
ment. Those walls would be no obstacle to an
army, and they were built in the years when
thousands of poor Mormons were coming into the
country without means of subsistence. Brigham
was opposed to feeding paupers, and to make a
way for wise charity, he kept hundreds of poor
men at work building cobblestone walls, that he
might support them by the church funds. Well
it would be if all charity were as wisely bestowed.
He made men industrious, and filled Utah with
thriving farmers, by teaching the importance of
industry.
   In the stormy days of that infamous “war” he
was a king among men—“aye, every inch a king!"
He was the invincible protector of a people who,
had done no wrong; who had been guilty of no
crime save that of holding a faith that was re-
pudiated by crystalized and corrupt theology.
Such kings as he

			“Repress the bold,
	And while they flourish, make an age of gold.”

   He found Utah a desert; he made it a garden.
From the despotisms of social life in other lands
he took tens of thousands of people unto whom life
offered nothing, for whom a Christianity of caste
had nothing but stones and scorpions, and made
them prosperous, loyal citizens of the fruitful
valleys of this divine mountain land.
   He lived and died a lover of the Constitution
of his native land, and left behind him a great,
strong, united people, who, when the ambitious
Catholic priesthood and the intriguing combina-
tion of protestant priesthoods have clutched the
Constitution of our country to destroy it and
banish freedom from the land, will be among the
foremost to spring to the rescue and drive back
the vandal hosts of tyrranny! For all these rea-
sons, I say Brigham Young never was, the Mor 
mon people never were, are not now, and I have
faith that they never will be, disloyal to the Con-
stitution and the flag.


DEATH OF SISTER MERRILL.

	Extract from Elder Wm. O. Lee's letter dated
Fagalii, Samoa, July 15, 1891.
	"We have very bad news to report this month,
and our hearts are filled with sympathy for all
those who will be affected by the same. In re-
porting Sister Merrill's condition last month we
thought she ws recovering, but she had a billious
attack and could not keep any food on her
stomach. As a result she became very weak and
a premature birth was the consequence. This
happened on the 28th of June. The child died
next day. An hour after the death of the child,
the mother called Sister Lee to her bedside and
after thanking her for waiting on her during her
sickness, said that she was "going to die;" that
she "could not stay" because "they had come for
her." She then talked with her husband, kissed
him goodbye, and all was over. The sad event
has left a cloud of sorrow behind that nothing but
time and the Spirit of God can dispel. The
funeral was held the next day. The mother and


baby boy were buried in one coffin. By permis-
sion from the manager of the German plantation,
we buried them on the brow of a hill about 200
yards S. E. from the mission house. They were
buried in a dry, elevated place, so that when
Brother Merrill's mission is ended he can take
the bodies home with him. We received the
sympathy of our white friends here and also
many offers of assistance. We can say all that
is good about our dear departed sister. She was
good and pure, had a great desire to fulfill her 
mission and do all the good in her power."
   It is always sad to record the death of the
young but this is specially sad because of the
circumstances, her absence from home, in a
foreign land, so far remote, and while filling a 
grand and noble mission, makes it painful to all
concerned. We remember this young woman
when a child in the Primary Association. May 
our Heavenly Father comfort her husband and
all those who mourn her early departure.
   "Katie Eliza Hale Merrill was born in Grants-
ville, Tooele Co., Utah, Dec. 10, 1871—and was
the daughter of Alma H. and Sarah A. Clark
Hale. She left home with her husband Elder
Joseph Harris Merrill, of Smithfield, last February
and had been an active worker in Sunday School
and Y. L. M. I. A. She is the first sister who
has died while on a mission."


AGAIN COMFORTED.

	Is it not humiliating to be ruled over by those
who hate us? but since the Lord will have a tried
people He will help us bear our trials, if we will
put our trust in Him; for He has said, such shall
never be confounded.
	He also says those whom He loves He
chastens. Remember it is in love and not in
anger, that we have this chastisement today. We
know it is in love when we behold the elements,
how lovely and pleasant has been this summer
when every prospect last winter was drouth, as it
had been two previous seasons. Wells dried up
that had never been dry before.
	But what do we see, lovely clouds floating in
the horizon with cool and refreshing showers
continually, until all nature is looking luxuriant
and prosperous, yes vegetation and fruit are both
excellent this season.
	I also notice that Judge Zane's remarks before
the Republican party were sound and god. I
am told he is an infidel, yet he is an honest man,
we can see in those remarks. He has chastised in
severity at times, but I can forgive him since he is
true to his convictions of right, and maintains
those principles he holds to be right; and is
anxious that good laws should be observed and
kept. Our Father in heaven will require the
same in His kingdom when it shall be set up on
the earth; for we realize this is a preparatory
work to that great event.
	I think our rulers are a little too fast in making
improvements however. They wish them to be
superior to ours; accordingly hurry up matters.
For instance my sister's family, last year put
down a new side walk, it cost 96 dollars. This
season a notice came to have another of a different
kind, put in its place making greater expense.
The law must be obeyed no doubt, and those who
own property must pay the expense, and the taxes
too however high. Yet we still hope they will be
reasonable, as they are sometimes; and again
they are more austere and severe.
	It seems to me that this "liberal" party show
more venom and bitterness than any other. Well
let us search ourselves and see if we need such
severity to make us true Latter-day Saints. We
have the promise "if ye will live Godly in Christ
Jesus ye shall suffer persecution." The Lord can-
not make saints of a proud people. Let us re-
flect, and study our own hearts thoroughly is the
desire of your aged friend.			M. E. K.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference held
at Mesa, June 18th, 1891, opened by the usual
exercises there being a good attendance from
the several wards. Of the brethren there were
present Brothers Wm. Passey A. F. Stewart,
C. R. Hakes and Pres. C. I. Robson and
others.
	Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy presided. The
Society of each of the wards was represented
by the respective President; Barbara Lang re-
ported the Mesa Ward, said the sisters deserved
a good report, they had held their meetings
regularly and were trying to live their relig-
ion.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman, thought the Alma
Ward sisters were trying to improve and keep
the commandments of God.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw said the Nephi Ward
had not held all their meetings during the last
quarter but she thought there was a general
good feeling.
	Pres. Lizzie Macdonald said the Society in
the Lehi Ward was doing well although it
was the same faithful few to be relied on; en-
couraged the sisters to attend to their spiritual
duties.
	Pres. Susan Savage reported the Papago
Ward, said the Lamanites were the "Children
of Promise," and she had great faith in their
future.
	Pres. S. M. Pomeroy felt pleased with the
reports, thought the Papago Ward should
have more encouragement, exhorted the sisters
to more faithful performance of their duties.
	Sister M. A. Hakes knew we were battling
for a great cause, thought we were all striving
to do right each in her own way.
	Sisters S. A. Robson, Charazda Averett,
Syrena Biggs, Emma Rogers and Harriet
Burton, made some timely remarks and gave
good counsel.
	Coun. C. R. Hakes spoke upon the varied
labors of the Latter-day saints; spoke upon
the subject of charity and mercy, said "to err
is human and to forgive divine."
	Bishop Wm. Passey and A. F. Stewart
added good counsel to the Relief Society
and the Saints in general.
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke of the purposes
of the Relief Society, referred to a report of a
meeting held at the residence of Judge Pyper,
Sugar House Ward years ago, and of the many
changes since then.
	There was a general good feeling manifested
at the conference and all felt to renew their
diligence. Adjourned for three months.
	F. E. Robson, Sec.

	JUAB STAKE.
	The fiftieth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Juab Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Nephi Tabernacle, June 23, 1891.
Pres. Pitchforth presiding; the choir sang "The
Morning Breaks." Pres. Paxman offered
prayer; singing "I'll praise my Maker while
I've breath." Officers roll-called; minutes of
previous conference read and accepted.
	Pres. Pitchforth said she was pleased to see
so many present on this the 23rd anniversary
of our organization. Spoke of our loved ones
departed who had labored so faithfully in the
interest of the Relief Society; Sister E. R.
Snow, Sister Amelia Goldsbrough our first
President, and Sister Picton her Counselor;
and many others that have gone to labor in a
higher sphere; spoke of Sister Zina Young and
her counselors and all associated with her in
the interest of the Association. Said we have
much to be thankful for, the needy have been
provided for, and if any have suffered it has
been because it was not reported. Prayed

[Column 2]
that the blessings of God might rest upon us
during our Conference.
	Pres. E. R. Udall reported the Second Ward
Society as being in good condition and ex-
pressed her desire to be faithful. Pres. Ann
Wilkey reported the First Ward in good work-
ing order, said both officers and members were
doing their duty to the best of their ability;
invoked the blessings of God upon all present
that we might be united as the heart of one.
Sister S. A. Andrews sang an appropriate
song.
	Apostle A. H. Lund said: "I am pleased to
have the privilege of meeting with the sisters,
and to hear of the good work they are per-
forming, comforting the sick, and caring for
the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to
be good than great; it is a mission of love to
help those who are in need; thought the work
of the Sisters of Charity was good, even if they
did not have the light and knowledge that the
sisters of the Relief Society had, they were
doing good and performing a noble mission;
but he was sorry they had chosen so lonely a 
life, for “the noblest mission on earth is that of
motherhood; look after the needy especialy
those who do not always ask; for there are
those who can not make their wants known;
give in a way that they will not feel like
paupers, but sons and daughters of the same
father, extend the same charity as you would
to your own brothers and sisters;" he spoke of
the power of healing, and how thankful we
ought to be that our husbands held the priest-
hood; we must put our trust in God, the bless-
ings of the priesthood far exceed gold and
silver and all else in this world; spoke of the
necessity of faith, we must not condemn those
who have not faith sufficient to be healed; they
can have faith unto salvation; recommended
good nursing for the sick, and less medicine;
thought it was right to use caution in con-
tagious diseases but not to the extent of leav-
ing the parents to bury their own dead, that is
too much; hoped the sisters would always be
willing to help; said we should all hold each
others characters sacred, we will gain by de-
fending, lose by slandering. Strengthen each
other, that when the end comes it may be said,
he or she has overcome, we shall eat of the
Tree of Life, every good act gains reward.
Prayed the Lord to bless us with every good
blessing that we might all endure to the end.
	A song by Miss M. Morgan and company.
Sister Aaggard reported the Levan branch in
good order; felt well in her labors with the
sisters. Sister Easthope reported the Juab
branch, said we are few in number, we have
very good meetings; hoped we would all put in
practice the good teachings we had heard from
Brother Lund. Sister Easthope sang "Beauti-
ful Zion for me." Counselor Bigler read a
letter from the Eureka Branch reporting the
Relief Society as doing well, their meetings are
well attended.
	Sister Bryan spoke in her kind motherly
way, advised the sisters to be kind to each
other and build each other up. May we all
stick to the old "Mormon Car," that Sister
Anderews sang about.
	Counselor Hannah Jones was much pleased
with the good advice and counsel of Brother
Lund. Thought there were many who would
give their lives if necessary to save their
friends. Read a very appropriate article from
the EXPONENT called "The School of Sorrow."
The stake and local officers were sustained by
unanimous vote.
	Pres. Pitchforth moved that we sustain each
other, exhorted all to be faithful and strive to
carry out the good counsel we had received
from Brother Lund.
	Bishop Parks felt that we had been blest
with a heavenly influence. Spoke of the good
work the sisters were doing, hoped all would
continue in their labors of love, asked the Lord

[Column 3]
to bless them to that end. Singing "Great is
the Lord." Benediction by Bishop Parks.
Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: choir sang, "I know that
my Redeemer lives." Prayer by Patriarch
Bigler; choir sang, "With all my powers."
	Sister Linton read the report of the 1st
Ward of Nephi, and Sister Delia Clayton
read report of the 2nd Ward. It being the
twenty-third anniversary of our organization
in Nephi, a programme was prepared consist-
ing of songs, recitations, and select readings,
also a number of organ solos. The young
ladies, as also some of the young gentlemen,
did all in their power to make our entertain-
ment a grand success.
	Sister Pitchforth expressed her appreciation
of all that had been done and said. Pres.
Paxman felt honored to be present at the 23rd
anniversary of the Relief Society organization,
highly appreciated the songs and recitations
and music, and heartily endorsed all that had
been said of our loved ones that had passed
away, many names had been mentioned and
there were many more whose lives had been
spent in this grand and noble work; spoke of
the time when we would meet our friends that
had passed away; exhorted the sisters to do
all the good they could, and hoped we would
all meet again in our next anniversary, and
live in joy and peace throughout all the ages
of eternity. Choir sang, "When shall we all
meet again." Benediction by Counselor C.
Sperry. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	ELLEN GOLDSBROUGH, Ass't Sec.


AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.
July 31st was our monthly meeting we had
a very entertaining and instructive programme.
Father Spratly gave a speech on political
questions which was very instructive, though
the old gentlemen is over 80 years of age his
voice was as clear as a bell. Millie B. Garff
sang a song entitled “The Maid of the Mill”
Ray Robison gave a recitation entitled “The
Smitten Rock.” Misses Lee and Mc’Neil
sang a song entitled “The Old Tree in the
Lane.” Emily Keeperieck, read a poem “The
Woman’s Flag.” Instrumental music Ida Chip-
man.
We also displayed our new flag at meeting,
which is twelve feet long with a single star,
about in the center; golden, for Wyoming.
We intend to make each star golden as each
state grants the right of suffrage to women.
We also gave a ball and strawberry festival
from the proceeds we gave our home band
forty dollars to encourage home talent.
It was resolved by the band committee that
resolutions be passed, thanking us for our gift,
but for some reason it did not appear in our
weekly paper the Independent.
HANNAH S. LAPISH, Pres.


WEBER CO., W. S. A.
The womaan’s suffrage meeting was held in
the Fifth Ward institute, Ogden, July 29.
Besides a good attendance of ladies several
gentlemen were present.
The opening exercises over, Mrs. Jakeman,
the agent and correspondent of the Young
Woman’s Journal, addressed the meeting. She
related her experience in advocating woman’s
suffrage in Sanpete county. Sometimes the
work was very discouraging as the idea
generally entertained was that woman was in-
ferior to man, and that her position in life was
a menial one. It, however, took both man
and woman to train and raise a family; in
like manner it required the joint influence


and work of both of the sexes to benefit and
bless the Nation. Woman should not feel dis-
couraged; her cause is not hopeless. She ad-
vised the study of political principles, their
proper classification, and an urgent advocacy
of them in subject form, and woman’s influ-
ence for good would be felt and respected.
Mrs. Moench next delivered an able address
on “Woman’s Sphere.”
Mr. Thomas Shreeves thought there were
many public questions in which woman was
concerned and which required her help. He
believed there would be less crime and fewer
social evils existing if women had a voice in
politics. He commended a union of action
and a support of their leaders in the advocacy
of woman’s claims upon mankind. “Fear not
the hand that rocks the cradle rules the
world.”
After a brief address from the president
Mrs. Stanford, the meeting adjourned for one
month.
The Standard.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SUFFRAGE IN VICTORIA.
Advocates of Woman Suffrage in this
country will learn with something like envy
that a measure similar to that which has so
often come to grief in the Imperial Parlia-
ment has become a Cabinet question in
Victoria. The Prime Minister of that
colony has submitted his project to his col-
leagues, and it will be interesting to watch
for the result. There is no intention to pro-
pose the enfranchisement of women at
large, for which change the time has not
arrived either in Australia or the United
Kingdom. The measure simply provides that
all women who obtain a place on the municipal
register shall be eligible also for the Parlia-
mentary register. These women may be
married or unmarried; all the requirement is
that they shall be of full age and entitled to a
municipal vote according to the laws of
Victoria, and the municipal roll shall furnish
the basis of that for Parliamentary purposes.
Colonials move faster than their kindred at
home. The roots of their institutions are not
yet deep; very few obstinate prejudices have
descended to them as inheritance, and they
can face problems unshackled by sentiments
and considerations which retain vitality in our
older system. They are setting a good example
in this endeavor to remove a harsh disability
from the gentler sex, and we trust their en-
lightened courage will be rewarded with suc-
cess.—Liverpool Mercury.


GOLDEN WEDDING.
	
	The golden wedding of John and Isabella
Beecher Hooker, at Hartford, Ct.,
August 5, was a notable occasion. The 
reception occured in the new City Mission
Building. The interior was beautified by
masses of flowers, ferns and plants. Yellow
was the predominating color, symbolical of
woman's suffrage. The building was thronged
with hundreds of leading citizens, among
them Senator and Mrs. Hawley, of Hartford. 
The attendance from out of town was
numerous and distinguished, including ex-
Senator W. M. Evarts and Miss Evarts.
William Loyd Garrison, John Hutchinson, 
of Hutchinson family fame, Rev. Edward
Beecher, D. D. and Mrs. Beecher, Rev. T.K.
Beecher, Rev. C. E. Stowe, Miss Grace King,
Lynde Harrison and Mrs. Harrison, Susan B.
Anthony, Caroline G. Rogers, Mary S. Howell, 
Charlotte Porter, Rachel F. Avery, Kate T. 
DeRoode, Helen Clark, editor of Poet Lore.
and Mary F. Seymour, of the Business
Woman's Journal.


Among representatives of the World's
Columbian Commission, of which Mrs. 
Hooker is a member, were Mrs. Trautman,
first vice-president Mrs. Pope, Miss Ford,
Miss Brusselle, Mrs French, Miss Dailey
Miss Ives, and Miss Cozzens.
   Letters of congratulation were received,
from the three editors of the Woman’s
Journal and many other absent suffragists.
   Supper and singing were followed by the 
presentation by the Equal Rights Club of
Hartford of a bride’s loaf covered with gold
dollars to Mrs. Hooker, the presentation speech
being by Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, of the City
Mission, and the singing of a couple of old
fashioned hymns by the assembled company.
The evening closed with remarks and a prayer
by the venerable Dr. Edward Beecher.
   John Hooker is to-day the oldest lawyer
in Connecticut, having been appointed reporter
of the Supreme Court of that State in
January, 1858. He has declined a seat upon
the supreme bench, and his ability ha
received special recognition from the Legis
lature. He has written many poems. At the
two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the 
adoption of Connecticut's first constitution,
he delivered an address and poem. For
years he was the only anti-slavery lawyer in
the state, and gave his first vote to J. G.
Birney, an act at that time unpopular. Since 
1869 he has been an active co-worker with
his wife in the woman suffrage movement.
   Isabella Beecher Hooker is the daughter of
Lyman Beecher, and posesses many of the
traits which have made the Beecher family
illustrious. She is sixty-nine years of age,
with all her powers in perfect vigor. She is 
president of the Connecticut Woman Suffrage
Association. and for years has been devoted to
the amelioration of her sex.
	H. B. B.     Ex.


THE WHITE CROSS MOVEMENT IN 
EDUCATION.

FROM ADDRESS OF FRANCES E. WILLARD BE-
FORE THE NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
	How early shall we teach? The age will 
vary, but be sure to let purity have the first
word. The child will ask questions early;
let not the coarse reply get in its work
before the chaste one comes. Science is like
fire, it burns away dross; tell him what science 
says. God's laws are all equally clean and
holy; tell him of the laws of God. But in 
what way shall we teach? According to the
truth of things, The bird in its nest the
flower on its stalk, the mineral in its crystals
all show forth one law. The sanctities of
parentage might best be the key-note. As a
rule, no one is reverenced and beloved by
the child like the mother who bore him.
Teach a little boy to revere and protect all
women for her sake, and teach the little girl
to shield as the "eminent jewel of her soul,"
the potentiality of motherhood. A noble
young woman of my acquaintance, teacher
in a country school; wrote me that she saw
such impurity carried on before her very eyes
in her little school house thot she could not
forbear speaking with her pupils one by one;
and noticing how they gathered in groups at
recess in mysterious fashion, she went out
with them to their plays.
   Would it not be better to abolish recess
altogether, and let gymnastic exercises, under
the teacher's supervission take its place?
This seems to be one of the best practical
means to a higher civilization in our public
schools. Such is the opinion of experts in
education with whom 1 very generally con-
sulted before preparing my address. A dis-
tinguished high-school principal sent me these
hopeful lines:
   "The public school is a composite of lawn
and back alley, parlor and saloon, hovel and
home. But its atmosphere is sweeter both
indoors and out, than in my boyhood days,
and this has come through the inheritance of
better traits of character, the introduction of
better methods of discipline, the abolition of
the promiscuous outdoor recess, the control of
children's reading, the giving of fewer chil-
dren to each teacher, and by a higher moral
ideal among young people themselves."   
   No factor in the woman-question evolution
is more significant than that women are teach-
ing the men that are to be. A solid respect
for women's mental powers must be the
mental habit of the boys thus trained.
Meanwhile there are enough men of brain
and brawn at the head of our educational
system to furnish boys ideals towards which
to grow. With all my heart, I believe there
are two motives on which a lady teacher can
rely: one is a boy's love for his mother 
and his sisters, the other a boy's desire to please
the lady who teaches him: and it is possible
to establish such esprit de corps. that boys
will not do what they would be ashamed to
heve her know, or what she assures them
would be bad examples for the smaller pupils.
Add to this the concept, emphasized by
White-Cross teaching, in the minds of boys,
both large and small, that in every woman
they behold the sacred sex to which each
boy's mother and sister belong, and a great
gain will have been made. The Arabs have 
a choice phrase that they apply to the noblest
young man of the tribe, saying that he is "a
brother of girls." This ideal is the true one 
for teachers to set forth. We send mis-
sionaries to Fijis, but we leave the play-ground
of our common schools practically in the 
hands of a pagan influence, and doom little
children out of sheltered homes to the malaria
of associations as harmful to them spiritually
and physically as the small-pox would be.
We turn them out to take their chances with
the rest. We know the imitative faculty of
the child naturally takes hold of what is
imitated; that impure literature is circulated
freely; and marks that are the insignia of
baseness are often on the walls.
   What we must have in all large schools is
a guardian of the play-ground; a moral
horticulturist whose specialty is physical
ethics; an apostle of health whose gospel
outranks that of head or hand, for without it
the head is apt to swim, the hann to tremble
and the heart to be a cage of unclean 
birds. 
	In contemplation of my present golden
opportunity of speech I have written to 
capable teachers whose names were given
me by leaders of the host, and have two
sentences to quote in this connection:
   "I take it for granted that you know, even
to the extent of being heart-sick over it, the 
frightful condition of most schools in respect
to the impurity in language, actions, and
defacement of school buildings and grounds.
Rural schools are usually worse than those
of cities and towns—for I really believe that
rural life tends to be more depraved in this 
respect than it is possible for the life of a
busy city to become."
   Another leader contrasts the condition of
things in an ordinary town with one where
women are on the school board and give
careful attention to the condition of the 
school building in this regard. Sixteen Statei
have now given women power to be school
officers, and in the name of health and holiness
let them be up and doing as house-cleaners for
the commonwealth.
Ex.


"Mrs. Ida May Davis, recently elected school
trustee in Terre Haute, Ind., will, according
to custom, serve as secretary of the board dur-
ing the first year of her three years' term."

   "MRS. TODD, who assisted Colonel Higgin-
son in editing the poems of Emily Dickinson,
recently gave some interesting reminiscences
of the recluse poet. "Toward the middle age,"
"Miss Dickinson ceased to leave the house;
even her loved garden was deserted for a con-
servatory. By letters and gifts she kept up
her connection with friends; and to children,
to whom she was always a good fairy, she
would lower sweet surprises and gifts from the
window. Only a few of the manuscript poems
left by this strange and gifted woman have
been published."

   Women taxpayers are constitutionally
empowered to vote in Montana. The Daily
Leader of Great Falls, Montana, says:
   Some of the people of Washington may try
to prevent it in their feeble way, but woman
suffrage is already an assured, a successful
fact. Wyoming is an example of its success.
The Montana constitution says: "Upon all
questions submitted to the taxpayers of the 
State, or any legal subdivision thereof, women
who are taxpayers shall, equally with men,
have the right ta vote." This is a broad
provision, and high legal authority declares
that it gives women taxpayers a right to vote
at any election. Twenty-five years from this
time they will exercise the right of suffrage in
every State in the Union, and the rising
generation will wonder at the stupidity and
intolerance of their ancestors who stood in the
way.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	It is with feelings of sadness that I here record the death
of our beloved Sister Stena Ericksen, which took place in
Mt. Pleasant on the 11th of July, at 17 minutes past 10
p.m., of pneumonia, she had been sick two weeks and
everything had been done that human skill could devise,
but all to no purpose.
	She peacefully passed from this sphere, surrounded by
her husband, children, and many dear friends, who deeply
mourn her sudden departure.
	Sister Erickson was a good woman, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint; she embraced the Gospel in her native
land, Denmark, when a girl, and availed herself of the first
opportunity of emigrating with the Saints, to this the land
of her adoption.
	She became the wife of Brother Ericksen, by whom she
had 8 children, 9 of whom still survive her, two sons, and
four daughters.
	She was a faithful member of our Relief Society and a
most energetic teacher for the last fifteen years; of a kind
disposition, always on hand to help the sick, or those who
were in trouble; an affectionate wife, and a most indulgent
mother, and the counsel and admonition she gave her
children while she was able to talk will long be remem-
bered. May they emulate her good example and profit by
her wise and judicious instructions, and show that her
labor in their behalf has not been in vain.
	We deeply sympathize with the bereaved children on
this trying occasion seeing their mother has been taken
in the midst of a life of usefulness, being only 51 years
old. May she rest in peace, and may we who mourn her
departure, prepare to meet her again, that our joy may
be full.
	M. F. C. MORRISON,


DEATH OF JANE M. WALTON.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Jane M.
Walton, who was suddenly deprived of life in a most sad
and shocking manner by being accidently shot while
attending a social party on the 24th of July at Monticello
where she resided.


Sister Walton was born the 16 of July 1846 making her
45 years and 9 days old. She was one of the Pioneers of
the San Juan Mission being one of the first who landed
here in 1880. She lived in Bluff about 8 years when she
with her husband was called to help build up Monticello.
A husband and three grown up children are left to mourn
her loss.
	Sister Walton was President of the Bluff Ward Relief
Society as long as she lived there, and was also Stake
President of the Relief society from the time the Stake was
organized till the time of her death.
	She was an earnest and faithful worker wherever duty
called her, and was universally loved and respected where
she was known.
	Whereas:—Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has suffered to be removed from our midst our beloved
Sister Jane M. Walton. Her faithful and zealous labors
as President of the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake of
Zion, also the great interest she always manifested for
the young, and as a teacher in the Sabbath School, both
by her presence and wise counsel, make it fitting that we
record our appreciation of her labors.
	Therefore:—be it resolved that we the officers and
members of the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake do
mourn her loss, realizing we have lost a noble and
benevolent Sister, her heart being willing and her hand
 ready to help the poor and comfort the sick.
	Resolved:—that a copy of these resolutions be placed on
the records of the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake
and that a copy be sent to the bereaved family and to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	MARTHA HAMMIND,
	JOSEPHINE WOOD,
	ELIZA A. REDD,
Committee.
Bluff, San Jaun Co. Utah, Aug. 6, 1891.


IN MEMORIAM.
Juarez, July 6, 1891.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
	DEAR FRIEND;
	I have desired to write a few lines in memory of our
two dear young friends, so suddenly and unexpectedly
called away, Parley and Aurelia, or Eda, as we called her,
son and daughter of Heleman and Victoria Pratt, beloved
and prized beyond measure by all in the home circle, be-
loved and mourned by all who knew them.  Their last
visit to Juarez was to attend the conjoint meeting and
Eda's name was on the programme for the next meeting
they took the deepest interest in the Improvement Associa-
tion, coming twelve miles to attend that and the Sunday 
School and meetings.
	May the Lord comfort those upon whom the loss falls so
heavily, as He alone can comfort, giving peace to the
aching hearts, and may He help them to realize that they
had a mission in the Spirit world, that they were prepared
and ready for the Father's work there, as they were ever
ready to do their part in the labors of this life, their will-
ing hands and cheerful presence will be sadly missed in 
the home circle, and among their friends, and associates
and although the parting is hard--

	'Tis sweet to give them back pure as they came,
	Untarnished by a tint of sin or shame—
Now with the ransomed we can write Parley and Eda's
	name.

But oh, the hearts at home are very sad,
Longing for those who always made them glad,
And the poor throbbing brain goes almost mad,

Thinking of vacant places, of why they had to go,
So young, so full of life, in youth's first morning glow,
When all looked bright to them and beautiful below.

Dear Eda said, sobbing by Parley's grave,
"I cannot live without him," and the wave,
Of death rolled back, and her we could not save.

So now the sunlight rests upon the two,
Still side by side as thus in life they grew.
Loving and kind and ever good and true.

Two silent graves upon the mountain's crest,
Two mortal bodies sleep in quiet rest,
Two glorious spirits with the pure and blest.

Mysterious birth entrance to death and pain,
Mysterious death, portal to life again,


And happy they who this blest life attain,
There victory will be the victor's cry,
There never, never more the loved ones die,
There never, never more will come good-bye.

Peace to the dear beloved one's gone before,
Treasured their memories 'til time shall be no more,
And we'll meet in glad reunion upon the golden shore.
	S. E. R.


Woman's Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.
	A bright  newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
	Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
	Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONAERY, EQUI-
POISE WAITS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates 
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the counry promptly responded to.
	DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.



﻿CLloman’s Voice
-AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.
A bright newsy weekly paper, treating of a]l
reforms that affect women is a firm defender of
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.'It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King s
Daughters and MissionsExposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
sm—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
Address? ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
Temple, Boston, Mass.
sis's Si-pitm Mi
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Malting In all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, lints and Uonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping douc. to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
TvT 10Q TP FIRST SOUTH STREET, ‘
JNO. iziO Hi. r‘ opposite City Hall.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30auJ 32 East 1st SulliSt,
1'aSALTLAKECITY.t,
The Leading Retail, 
Casli Hou-se,
R.K. THOMAS
h Special to the Ladies. .
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found tf' latest styles and pioductioris.
n
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, .
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIPIS
. - And an elegant assortment of
DRY aOODS..,
Special department for Ladies1 Misses’ and In-
fant’s .Shoes.
112, 114, 116,-118 East Temple Sir.. IDAVIDIES&..CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Kg- Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORL’fc.
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, BOX 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
