The Plan of Salvation By Wilma Stolworthy. "We will go down for there is space there, and we will take of these materials and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their head forever and ever." (Book of Abraham 3:24, 27. Pearl of Great Price.) WHENCE. The heavenly home in all its radiant glory nestled among the trees. Under their shade a group of girls sat talking. The serious look on their faces evidenced an earnest conversation. A beautiful girl was the center of the group, to her the remarks were made or the questions asked. "Aren't you afraid to go? Just think of the change it will be." "Yes, sickness, pain and temptations will be there. But mother says my new parents will give me a heritage that will fit me to meet all these. They will give me the privilege of being born under the New and Everlasting Covenant. Their constant counsel and guidance will keep me from straying far from the right path. I am anxious to go now." "But the change? Aren't you afraid of that?" "No, mother says that the months spent next to my earthly mother's heart will prepare me for the change. Then when the time comes for my birth all will seem natural and I will enter the new world with no fears nor misgivings. After all, girls, the earthly birth is but a forgetting which gives us a chance to show what our life here has prepared us for." The mother came to the door and called. The girls ran quickly to her side and the door closed upon the group. A few days later the chosen girl stood with her guide ready to leave for her new probation. Goodbyes were said through tears. Then with her mother's and father's blessing she passed into the new world and new life that was to prepare her for future glory. WHY? Long hours of suffering, a deep taste of the bitter sweet, a cry of pain, and a baby girl was ushered into the world of pain and joy. The baby was a tiny, frail bundle of helplessness, but 
 Through the loving care of her mother she in time grew into healthy childhood. Her time was spent as other children's time was spent..\ mother's loving counsel, with an occasional wise correction kept her feet ever in the path of truth. She grew up to love purity of sex and all things beautiful. In time the Church high school opened its enchanted doors to her. Here her life grew and became broader. She formed new friendships with other girls and, boys. Temptations of a new kind came into her life: but her teachings from her earthly mother helped her over the rough places, and life grew full and sweet to her. Suddenly a new crisis came into her life. The mother was taken ill and for five long years ihe daughter gave up school and all the bright plans of youth to care for the suffering mother. Then, one day, God called the mother home. The old home was broken up and the girl went away again to resume her school work and studies. Some years later she met the man of her choice and in a temple of God she was sealed to him as his wife for life and through all eternity. A new home was built. Many times she, too, tasted of the bitter-sweet and learned to know the joys of motherhood. The little family grew older. The children one by one left the old home nest. Then came the summons for her who had been both daughter and mother. And one day she passed so quietly and peacefully from her life here on earth that the loved ones could scarcely tell that the spirit had left its mortal tabernacle, She had gone to her rest. WHERE? A group stood waiting at the gate of the heavenly home. A messenger and companion were seen coming. In a moment the daughter was in her heavenly Mother's and Father's arms. What rejoicing! What joy and happiness was theirs. Reverently the Father's hands rested upon the daughter's head, and his voice in deep full tones pronounced the Father's blessing. "Beloved daughter, you, who kept your first estate, were given the privilege of living your life on earth. While there the laws of your second estate were fulfilled. Now shall glory be added upon your head for ever and ever." A look that comes only to those who meet the fight bravely and who win bravely and gloriously overspread her face. Peace filled her heart and she now knew that when her husband's call came they would travel together the road of Eternal Progression. Out of the