[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The 113th Semi-annual Widtsoe]

On Saturday morning, October 3, 1942, at the opening session of the 113th semi-annual conference, another man was sustained in high office in this Church?Joseph F. Smith, Patriarch to the Church?and responded with a testimony such as one would expect from a great grandson of Hyrum Smith, the martyr, brother and companion in life and in death of Joseph Smith the Prophet.
Joseph F. Smith, sixth Patriarch to the Church, is best known perhaps as Professor Joseph F. Smith, head of the Department of Speech at the University of Utah. For purposes of convenience only, he is sometimes listed as Joseph Fielding Smith III, to distinguish him from his uncle, Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve.
The new Patriarch has many rich gifts, both of mind and of spirit, and of personality. His call comes to him at the age of forty-three, and his appointment fills a vacancy that has existed for more than ten years?since the death of Hyrum G. Smith in 1932.
He has an acquaintance with many peoples, many countries, and many customs in this land and in Europe and the islands of the Pacific. As the son of Apostle Hyrum M. Smith and Ida Elizabeth Bowman, he lived in Europe during his father's presidency of the European Mission. The schools of both England and America have contributed richly to his academic background, and his service as a missionary in Hawaii gave him yet broader experience in yet another part of the world.
Joseph F.
Smith is also a sincere and entertaining host in his home, where his three daughters and two sons are growing up with a love of truth and an example of faith?and in all of these things his able and lovely wife is an equal sharer?in ideals, in activities, in devotion to all good things, in able management, and in undeviating integrity. Sister Smith was the former Ruth Pingree whom he married in 1929. She is a member of the general board of the Primary Association, and her mother, Pauline Taggert Pingree, is a member of the Relief Society general board.
Many of the major universities of America have opened their.
Doors to Joseph F. Smith, both as a student and as a teacher. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Utah in 1924, where his abilities in speech and dramatics were encouraged by Dr. Maud May Babcock, whose interest in him was a guiding factor in those earlier years. A certificate of phonetics from the University of London followed a year. Later, and then came the succeeding year his M. A.
Degree at the Uni- JOSEPH F. SMITH versity of Illinois. He has been both student and teacher at the University of Wisconsin. He has taught two summer sessions at the University of Minnesota, and one summer at the University of Iowa, and one summer at the University of California at Berkeley, and two years and five summer sessions at the University of Wisconsin; for the past seven years he has also taught during the summer sessions in the Banff School of Fine Arts, a subsidiary of the University of Alberta. His friends in his profession, which he now gives up in response to Church call, are numbered among the highly accredited, and he holds membership in several societies, fraternities, and professional organizations including the National Sociology Fraternity; Theta Alpha Phi, the National Dramatic Fraternity; National Forensic Fraternity; Sigma Phi Sigma; and Phi Kappa Phi. The new Patriarch's Church service has been consistent and varied, as a missionary, as a former member of the Granite Stake Sunday School board, as a teacher of various quorums and classes, and, since 1929, as a member of the general board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association.
Born in Salt Lake City, January 30, 1899, and orphaned since 1918 by the tragic death of both father and mother within a few months of each other, he has come through many of the reverses and vicissitudes of
751 JOSEPH F. SMITH life with growing faith and purpose and demonstrated ability. His ministry, one of blessing, will bless the membership of the Church wherever he goes. His many gifts and his unquestioned faith will sustain and enrich the lives of those among whom his calling and official responsibilities will take him. Joseph F. Smith, Patriarch to the Church, is a man of courage and integrity, and will serve his generation well, in accordance with the highest ideals and purposes that the Lord has made known to man.