[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Overtones Sartori]

Overtones Dott J. Sartori Little words are quite enough To carry the overflow That is brimming from a heart, Which you already know; Quiet words that hardly sound Above unspoken things, For words are only overtones Of songs that my love sings. ?Shall the Youth of Zion Falter'' Rulon W. Clark - Judge of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City, Utah "Shall the youth of Zion falter, In defending truth and right? _ While the enemy assaileth, Shall we shrink, or shun the fight?" WE HAVE sung this good old Mormon hymn for years, hoping, praying, and working to the end that the youth of Zion shall not falter in the maintenance of the high standards of the Church. Now, more than ever, we are concerned with the welfare of our young people. The rapidly changing social and economic conditions, the great war, the influx of population, and the opportunities both for good and for bad, greatly concern us. Can your youth withstand the temptations, take advantage of the opportunities afforded them, and emerge victoriously to carry on the responsibilities which await them?
Delinquency seems to be greatly increased in all sections of the country since the outbreak of the war. Miss Marjorie Fry, former chairman of a Juvenile Court in London and a visitor at the National Probation Association Convention at New Orleans, Louisiana, last spring, told of the increase of delinquency among the young people of England since the outbreak of the war. Judge Coombe, of the Juvenile Court in Adelaide, Australia, in his yearly report says, "In common with other parts of the British Empire we note with regret that the number of offenses (not including traffic breaches) has again risen?this time _ from 7og to 770.
Recent reports Page 754 from England and Canada (with which I find myself in agreement) ascribe this rise to war conditions, including relaxation in family authority and a spirit of adventure and restlessness in the air."
Reports from courts in the United States show a marked increase in delinquency, and our own records show that the referrals to our Juvenile Court jumped to go6 cases during the first six months in 1942 from 478 cases during the same period in 1941 and 602 cases in 1940.
Many of our older boys, ages 16 and 17 years, who have caused the most frequent referrals to the Court are now employed or enlisted in the armed forces, and there has been a noticeable decrease in such referrals.
Work has also been available for many of our older girls, but there seems to have been no noticeable decrease of their cases to the Court. In fact, there have been recently several older girls referred on serious offenses, and these are presenting some of our most serious problems. Sex offenses, venereal infection, and ungovernableness have been far. Too prevalent.
Complaints are being made that many of our young girls are seen out late at night on the streets, in the parks, and in beer parlors.
Because of this, it has been suggested that a law be passed prohibiting unmarried girls under 18 years of age from.
Being on the "SHALL THE YOUTH OF ZION FALTER" streets or in public places between the hours of 12 midnight and 5 a.m.
Unless properly chaperoned or on proper business. The City Law Department is now considering the legal aspects of such a law.
Even if such a law is passed, it does not solve our problem. The enforcement of it cannot cure the evil, and it can only be enforced as the people demand it. We have long since learned that we cannot "'legislate morals." The enforcement of such laws only assists in the maintenance of the standards of morals established by the people themselves. The police and peace officers of the city, county, and state are doing the best they can to see that our laws are enforced.
They are trying to correct an undesirable condition which we, as a people, have permitted to exist. If our boys and girls are running the streets at night, visiting unwholesome places, or doing things they should not, we should face the issue squarely and ask ourselves, as parents and guardians, why we permit these conditions to be. Why are not our children at home and in bed at a reasonable hour at night, and why are we not providing wholesome entertainment and recreation for them in desirable places? It is true that some of our older children get beyond our control and refuse to comply with our requests.
This may be due to our failure or inability to properly train them in obedience and in adherence to correct principles. If this is the case, then it may be necessary for the court to remove the delinquent child from the custody of his parents and make him a ward of the state, The 755 law imposes upon parents the duty of training and caring for their children and of bringing them to maturity as good citizens. It is only when they fail in this respect that the courts can deprive them of their tights to custody. But when there is such a failure, the state may be substituted to give the child such education and training as will be for his welfare and the best interests of the state. Our Supreme Court has held (31U 473)?"The state in its sovereign power has the right, when necessary, to substitute itself as guardian of the person of the child for that of the parent or other legal guardian, and thus to educate and save the child from a criminal career; that it is the welfare of the child that moves the state to act, and not to inflict punishment or to meet out retributive justice for any offense committed or threatened. In other words, to do that which it is the duty of the father or guardian to do, and which the law assumes he will do by reason of the love and affection he holds for his offspring and out of regard for the child's future welfare." If some of our youth falter, then we as parents falter with them.
They are ours; they are part of us and the extension of all that we are into the future generation.
Their name is our name, and they continue it either for good or for bad. T has been my experience that most parents are deeply concerned about the welfare of their children. The failures they have in the rearing of their children are mistakes and not willful neglect.