[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Volume II of Sings]
er for  children  or  adults;  such  as, 
"Crime  and  Punishment"  (I  Kings 
21 )  or  'The  Golden  Calf"  (Exodus 
32). 
3.  Select  a  group  of  short  essays  or 
epistles  on  charity,  humanity,  etc., 
and  compare  them  in  content,  style, 
etc.,  with  modern  writings  of  these 
types. 
4.  The  dramatic  element  of  a  choice 
story  may  be  brought  out  by  a  drama- 
tization of  some  of  the  scenes. 
Reieiences 
Moulton,  Dr.  R.  C,  The  Modern  Read- 
er's BibJe. 
Phelps,  William  Lyon,  Human  Nature 
and  the  Bible. 
McClure,  James  G.  K.,  The  Supreme 
Book  of  Mankind. 
Moody,  D.  L.,  Pleasure  and  Piofit  in 
Bible  Study. 
Armstrong,  R.  A.,  How  to  Know  the 
Bible. 
Baikie,  James,  Living  Stones  oi  the 
Bible   (Illustrated). 
Beveridge,  A.  J.,  The  Bible  as  Good 
Reading. 
Giddard,  Grace  H.,  and  Baldwin,  D.M., 
Types  of  Literature  in  the  Old  Testament. 
-^- 
Sociai  Science 
What  "America"  Means 
Lesson  4 
Constitution  of  the  United  States 
(Tuesday,  February  23,  1943) 
We  say  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard;  it  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner;  it  is  to  all  those  who  are 
privileged  with  the  sweets  of  liberty,  like  the  cooling  shades  and  refreshing  waters  of  a 
great  rock  in  a  thirsty  and  weary  land.  It  is  like  a  great  tree  under  whose  branches  men 
from  every  clime  can  be  shielded  from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun.  (Documentary  His- 
tory of  the  Church,  p.  304) — The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.

810 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1942 
'pHE  two  great  constitutions  of 
the  world  are  the  British  Con- 
stitution and  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States.  The  British  Consti- 
tution is  what  we  call  a  Convention. 
It  is  not  written  in  words,  or  enacted 
in  a  formal  document,  but  it  is  a 
Convention.  If  asked  to  describe  it, 
we  would  describe  the  Magna  Char- 
ta,  the  Petition  of  Rights,  the  Bill  of 
Rights,  and  other  documents  which 
together  make  the  Constitution  of 
the  British  Empire.  These  docu- 
ments are  written  and  modified  and 
formed  for  the  time.  Our  Consti- 
tution is  very  different.  It  is  a  single 
document,  the  only  one  of  its  kind  in 
history.  Alexander  Hamilton,  a 
young  man,  saw  that  the  colonies 
could  not  live  together  and  work  to- 
gether without  a  common  under- 
standing of  conditions  of  life.  He. took 
for  his  opportunity  one  of  those  small 
things,  which  have  such  great  conse- 
quences in  life,  and  called  a  conven- 
tion ostensibly  for  the  deciding  of  the 
controversy  between  Virginia  and 
Maryland  over  the  oyster  fisheries  in 
Chesapeake  Bay.  This  issue  was 
seized  to  start  the  Constitution  by 
this  able  man,  for  when  greater  is- 
sues arose  among  the  colonies,  Ham- 
ilton advised  the  holding  of  a  Con-
