[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Social States]

Social Science What "America" Means Lesson 4
Constitution of the United States (Tuesday, February 23, 1943) We say that the Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner, it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. (Documentary History of the Church, p. 304)?The Prophet Joseph Smith. 810 HE two great constitutions of the world are the British Constitution and the Constitution of the United States. 'The British Constitution is what we call a Convention. It is not written in words, or enacted in a formal document, but it is a Convention. If asked to describe it, we would describe the Magna Charta, the Petition of Rights, the Bill of Rights, and other documents which together make the Constitution of the British Empire.
These documents are written and modified and formed for the time. Our Constitution is very different. It is a single - document, the only one of its kind in history. Alexander Hamilton, a young man, saw that the colonies could not live together and work together without a common understanding of conditions of life. He.
Took for his opportunity one of those small things, which have such great consequences in life, and called a convention ostensibly for the deciding of the controversy between Virginia and Maryland over the oyster fisheries in Chesapeake Bay.
This issue was seized to start the Constitution by this able man, for when greater issues arose among the colonies, Hamilton advised the holding of a Convention to settle the issues for all the colonies. Cicero, an ancient Roman writer, wrote in his "Treatise on the Commonwealth" these words: "A state is a union of people, associated in an agreement of law and a community of interest." 'These words describe the spirit of the Constitution of the United States.
Such a social community existed among the independent American Colonies when the Constitutional Convention met. Its  delegates derived their commission directly from the people of this united social community, welding together the people of the states.
This fact is well stated in a book entitled The Story of the Law by John M. Zane, a former resident of Salt Lake City. The colonists had many interests in common and were in a sense a nation before the Constitution was drafted, because the states were held together by the natural laws of community interests. 'The colonists had grown together in a natural way. As to their rights, they claimed the general rights of all Englishmen, because those rights were defined in the laws which they brought with them. The Constitutional Convention was a complete body of free persons united together for their "common benefit."
This simple analysis concerning the spirit behind the Constitution as written by Mr.
Zane makes clear to every American the sacredness of Lincoln's expression: "A government of the people, for the people, and by the people." The Convention which drafted the Constitution of the United States met at Philadelphia in May 1787. The place was Independence Hall, where the Declaration of Independence was written and given to the world. All the original.
Thirteen states were represented except Rhode Island. The fifty-five delegates formed as notable a gathering of men as ever came together.
There were George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, James Madison, James Monroe, Edmund Randolph, Gouverneur Morris, John Rutledge, Rufus King, Robert Morris, to mention only a few of the noted men. The LESSON DEPARTMENT Convention was organized and George Washington was made chairman. His speech of acceptance, though brief, was a forceful one.
Said he: "It is probable that no plan we propose will be adopted.
Perhaps another dreadful conflict is to be sustained. If to please the people we offer what we ourselves disapprove, how can we afterwards defend our work? Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair; the event is in the hand of God." | The delegates to the Convention fully appreciated the difficulties that confronted them. It was agreed that none of the debates be printed or otherwise published without special permission. For much of our knowledge of the proceedings of the Convention, we are today indebted to the copious notes of James Madison, published after his death. One of the early acts of the Convention was the adoption of a resolution "that a national government ought to be established consisting of a supreme Legislative, Executive, and Judiciary." The delegates were generally agreed that it was dangerous to entrust too much power to the people, and they were prepared to incorporate certain "safeguards" in the new government. "The evils we experience," declared Eldredge Gerry, "flow from the excess of democracy." The delegates as a whole favored a strong central government and restrictions on democracy, but as to ways of restrictions, the delegates were not all agreed. One group wished to make the states clearly subordinate to the national government; while the smaller states through their 811 representatives argued that the sovereignty of the states must be preserved. Two plans were offered for the consideration of the Convention: that of Peyton Randolph, known as the Virginia plan, and the New Jersey plan proposed by William Paterson of New Jersey. The one plan proposed a nationalist program, or a strong central government; while the other suggested the continuance of a league of states, each with sovereign rights, but each with increased power and authority. Asa result of these two views, the Convention agreed upon a legislature of two houses. The members of the lower house, or House of Representatives, were to be apportioned among the states on the basis of population, while in the upper house, or Senate, the states were to be represented equally. 'wo senators were to be elected from each state. All bills for the raising of revenue were to originate in the House of Representatives; otherwise the legislative power of the two bodies was equal. Thus "the great compromise," as this settlement has come to be known, established the national principle in the House of Representatives, while it preserved the equality of the states in the Senate.
Other large questions arose in the Convention which had to be settled. One was that of slavery and the authority to regulate commerce, and often a middle ground had to be found for the solution of differences.
When the document was completed and the time came for the signatures of the delegates, only thirty-nine remained to attach their names to the Constitution. It was then necessary to refer the document to the ratification of the states, and naturally its 812 merits and defects became topics of daily conversation.
People who favored its adoption called themselves Federalists, while those opposed were called Anti-Federalists. 'The influence of the press, men of letters, and of the pulpit was thrown on the side of the Federalists.
Many disapproved of the Constitution because it had no Bill of Rights for the protection of individual liberty. The first 'Ten Amendments to the Constitution were added in 1789, and these became known as the Bill of Rights. It was a monumental task which the Convention accomplished within four months, and time has proved the efficacy of their wisdom and knowledge. The Constitution provides for three departments of Government: 'The Law Making Body, or Legislative; the Law-interpreting Power, or the Judiciary; and the Law-executing Power, or the Executive Department.
While there was a separation of powers, the members of the Convention provided an elaborate system of checks and balances.
Each department of government was subject to check through the exercise of powers granted to the other departments. For example, a majority of Congress cannot make a law if the President disapproves, and the President cannot obstruct legislation if it be favored by two-thirds of the two branches of Congress.
Congress can limit the power of the President by many laws which prescribe his duties, and the President can in turn obstruct the Congress in many of its measures.
When you read the Constitution, you are impressed with its simplicity,  and yet its depth of meaning as to human affairs is apparent... It was not written as an expression of mere political wisdom. It shows something of the influence of Divine power.
During the summer when the Convention was thrown mote or less into turmoil by debate, Benjamin Franklin made a beautiful and touching appeal for conciliation, and said in one of the outstanding statements that was made during the Convention:; I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth: That God governs in the affairs of men. As the members of the Convention approached the table to sign their names, a gentle smile illumined Franklin's countenance, and later as the new Government was inaugurated, he passed away. As Beck says in his book The Constitution of the United States: Surely these men, morally as intellectually, were great in the unusual magnanimity of silence!
There were giants in those days.
Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. You should carefully read the Constitution of the United States. You will enjoy its simplicity and noble analysis of how our nation is governed.
Like all great. Documents, it should be read and re-read. 2.
What were the steps that led to the drafting of our Constitution? 3. In what other document of American history do you find the thought expressed in the Preamble of the Constitution? (Read again the Mayflower Compact as found in Lesson 2. 4. 'i hat is meant by checks and balances?
Give example. 5.
What are some of the basic principles of the First Ten Amendments, commonly called the Bill of Rights? 6.
What department of our Government LESSON DEPARTMENT interprets the meaning of the Constitution? 7. Why do the Latter-day Saints hold the Constitution as a sacred document? 8. Do you know the name of the first great Supreme Court Judge who did so much to interpret the meaning of the Constitution in our early history? References Any one-volume history of the United States is your best help. 813
Channing, History of the United States. Beard, American Government and Politics. Walker, The Making of a Nation. Woodburn, The American Republic. Farrand, The Framing of the Constitution of the United States. Wirth, The Development of America. Adams, The March of Democracy. See address on the Constitution given by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., General Conference, October 3, 1942, and published in The Deseret News, Church Edition, Saturday, October 17, 1942.