[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: General Presidents of Smith]

% General Presidents of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. ) Bathsheba W. Bigler Smith Fourth Relief Society President Lesson 4 (Tuesday, February 23, 1943) IN few cases have conversion to Mormonism brought so marked a contrast in manner of living as occurred in the Bigler family of West Virginia. Mark Bigler was a Southerner of Pennsylvania-Dutch descent, while his wife, Susannah Ogden, belonged to a well-to-do, aristocratic family in Maryland.
Their home was spacious and hospitable and lively with the activities of seven children. Bathsheba, their young daughter, was well trained in the art of homemaking by her mother, a gentle, pious woman, an excellent housekeeper, and an artist at needlework. By association with her father, the girl developed executive ability. She rode a horse well, and frequently accompanied her father over his large estate, where he inspected houses and property, and directed his men in cultivating land and raising stock. Her parents were people of education who gave their children the intellectual advantages that were available. By environment and training Bathsheba acquired the social graces traditional with a wellborn a Southern girl. All these qualifications fitted her for her later leadership among women.
Bathsheba was born in West Virginia, May 3, 1822.
When at age fifteen she first heard the Mormon elders preach, she was so impressed 814 that she prayed humbly to the Lord. She felt His spirit come upon her and knew that the Gospel was true and that it was for her. The other members of the family were likewise converted and baptized, and henceforward the hospitality of the Bigler home was extended to the elders. One of them, George Albert Smith, cousin of the Prophet Joseph, a young man of fine appearance and character, fell in love with the queenly and beautiful Bathsheba. In the autumn of 1838, most of the Bigler family left to join the Saints in Far West. The father was coming later by water, with farm supplies and machinery.
Bathsheba enjoyed the journey by wagon over hill and dale and prairie and through dense forests. But once in Missouri, the converts found that they had left the sunny friendliness of Virginia only to encounter the cold hostility and hatred of the Missourians toward the Mormons. All her life Bathsheba said, "Nothing was as bad as the Missouri persecutions."
Near the Grand River, the Biglers camped overnight with some Saints from the East, but fortunately decided to take a different route from theirs to Far West. The other party was caught in the Haun's Mill massacre, where nineteen people were killed, many wounded, and some maimed for life. The Biglers settled on a farm a few miles from Far West.
Three days after their arrival, Apostle David Patten, one of their own people, was wounded by a mob at Crooked River. He was carried to their home.
Bathsheba heard his dying testimony of the truth of the Gospel, and his exhortations to his wife and all present to abide in the faith. Indicating  that he held no grudge against anyone, he died in the true spirit of Jesus Christ.
Bathsheba saw thousands of mobsters arrayed against the Saints, and heard their shouts and savage yells as they seized the Prophet Joseph to take him to Liberty Jail. She saw the Saints robbed, beaten, and forced to sign away their property. But she felt the spirit of the Lord sustaining and comforting His people, who knew that they were suffering for the Gospel's sake. [N the depth of winter, 1839, the Biglers, driven from their newly purchased farm, migrated with thousands of other Saints to Quincy, Illinois, where their father joined them.
There both he and Bathsheba experienced their first illness, ague and fever, from which Mark Bigler died. In 1840, the saddened family moved to Nauvoo. In 1841, Bathsheba married George A. Smith, the youngest of the Twelve Apostles. He had recently returned from a two- ~ year mission to Great Britain. Mrs. Smith, only nineteen years old, was invited to attend the organization meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. She was the youngest of the eighteen charter members, and the last of them to die. In 1846, Sister Smith, with her small son and daughter, joined the exodus from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters, where she lost, first, her mother, then an infant son, a few hours after his birth. Her husband accompanied Brigham Young and the original Pioneers into the unknown West. On his return he remained at Winter Quarters outfitting the departing companies until 1849, when he and his family journeyed across the plains.
LESSON DEPARTMENT The Smiths were much better equipped than most of the Pioneers.
Their wagon was called a "house on wheels." The floor was carpeted.. The cover was high enough for people to stand erect. A corded frame was used for a bedstead in the back of the wagon. In the center were four chairs. In one side of the wagon cover was a door, and in the other a window, which could be opened at will. On one wall hung a mirror, a candlestick, and a pincushion. In Utah, Sister Smith bore the usual Pioneer privations and difficulties, living in tents, wagons, huts, and performing heavy labor with her hands. In 1858, a comfortable, roomy home, which was also the Historian's Office, was built for her opposite the Lion House. When Johnston's Army was sent to Utah, Sister Smith joined the migration of Mormon women to the south.
They had left straw around their houses with the order to apply the torch the moment the army came over the mountains.
Fortunately this tragedy was averted, but the women remained away until their safety was assured. Mrs. Smith, in Provo at this time, spun wool by hand and wove it into jeans, linsey, and blankets. She spun and wove flax, and made it into table linen, sewing thread, and other necessities. She wove fringe and wool rugs, and braided rag carpets, besides making clothing, candles, and soap.
When she returned to Salt Lake, she found her once lovely garden higher than her head with weeds. But the family made a new one, and she and the two children irrigated the orchard and gardens when their turn came to use the water.
Often that was in the 815 middle of the night, and fearlessly she would arise and set to work, as her husband was absent frequently on Church work. In 1860, her only remaining son, George Albert, Junior, while on a mission, was killed by the Indians who were generally friendly but were just then seeking revenge for the reported slaughter of their squaws and papooses by white soldiers. Brother George A.
Smith was first counselor to Brigham Young, and Sister Bathsheba associated with all the leading men and women of the Church, frequently ? entertaining them in her hospitable home. At one time, a large surprise party with an elaborate dinner was given there for Sister Eliza R. Snow. In 1876, Brother Smith died. Earlier, Sister Smith had written in her journal, "I believe that but few in the wide world have been as happy as we have been. We have no differences; our religion and our expectations are the same."
After his death she wrote: "Good angels had come to receive his precious spirit, perhaps our sons." SISTER SMITH had been active in Relief Society as a ward teacher, treasurer, counselor, president, and as a stake officer; but after her husband's death, she did much more public work. In 1888, she became second counselor to Sister Zina Young, president of the Relief Society, and from 1901 to her death in 1910, she was president of that great organization.
During that time, a department for mothers' work was introduced, and practical nurse service was increased and systematized so that the needy might 816 have free attention, and the women of small incomes might receive experienced help at moderate prices. Ward Relief Society conferences were introduced, and the Bishop's Building was completed, with headquarters for the Relief Society.
That organization had contributed liberally to the cost of the building. Sister Smith traveled widely through the settlements of Utah, encouraging and counseling the Relief Society sisters, who honored and revered her. She was a dignified, intelligent, devoted woman, with deep spirituality and a loving heart of her people, the Latter-day Saints. She officiated at the ?t of the Nauvoo, Logan, and Salt Lake Temples, worked for seventeen years with  
Eliza R. Snow in the Endowment House, and with Zina Young presided over the women's department of the Salt Lake Temple. She herself presided over the women in the Salt Lake Temple for many years. She died September 20, 1910. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 118 et passim Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim Woman's Exponent, September 1910; May 1909 "Presentation of Bathsheba W. Smith Portrait to Capitol," Relief Society Magazine, June 1930, p. 338
Pictures of: Handbook of Relief Society, p. 108