[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Birthday President Heber]

Birthday For President Heber J. Grant
"Dream, O youth, dream nobly and manfully, and your dreams shall be your prophets."
Oh let his autumn day be beautiful With sunlight on his native hills And symphony of fields in burnished glow;
Let all his homeland valleys bring A rich fulfillment of his early dream And deep content for him to know;
Still let the height of temple spires tell The splendor of the work he loves, And when he sees their pattern in the dawn
Let him recall the days and years When his devotion to the Prophet's plan Gave men a dream to build upon.
And let him know the words we all would speak If we could hold the seasons back; Still let us cherish all his life conveys?
The steadfast courage and the faith, The breadth of wisdom and of sympathy That mark his span of lengthened days.
And all our prayers shall stand beside His autumn and his eventide.
Vesta P. Crawford
This quotation by Lord Bulwer-Lytton is frequently used by President Grant.

The One Hundred and Thirteenth Semi-annual Church Conference
(October 3 and 4, 1942)
Elder John A. Widtsoe
Member of the Council of the Twelve
THIS unique general conference was confined to the leadership of the Church?presidencies of stakes and Priesthood quorums, high councils, bishoprics and other similar presiding councils?in short, to the 11,000 men who form the presiding Priesthood leadership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At the three sessions on Saturday and the two on Sunday, the great Tabernacle was well filled; indeed, on Sunday, when more men were free to leave their daily vocations, it was filled to capacity. Perhaps no other conference like it has been held in the long history of the Priesthood.
Elder Joseph F. Smith, son of the late Apostle Hyrum M. Smith was called to the office of Patriarch to the Church, otherwise there were no changes among the general authorities of the Church.
The Gospel in this unhappy day became a theme of the speakers. The unchanging law of God in a changing world; the stern necessity of choosing for ourselves the road we shall travel; the greatness of our heritage as Latter-day Saints to give us strength in the midst of temptation; and the power of the Priesthood to help and guide in war and home service, were subjects stressed by many of the speakers. The responsibility of the Priesthood in leading modern Israel along paths of righteousness was frequently mentioned. This responsibility begins at home, in the stake or ward or quorum; but extends into the world, for the purpose of the Church is to save souls?the souls of all men. Holders of the Priesthood if they live righteously are the "sons of God," who by example and precept must teach the Gospel to all the world. The present world upheaval will furnish new and unexpected opportunities to preach the Gospel at home and abroad.
The importance of the home in guiding youth was given special emphasis. Father and mother, under the law of the Lord, must instill the Gospel spirit into the hearts of the members of the family. They must impress upon their children that no man or nation can survive happily unless every labor be done in obedience to spiritual concepts. Our responsibility for our boys and girls, divinely placed upon parents, can not be ignored if we are to please the Lord.
PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr., explained, impressively, the essential meaning of the United Order, and its relationship to the Welfare Plan, a subject of utmost importance in this time of dangerous political and economic theories. He made it clear that the United Order bears no relationship to socialism or communism, as commonly understood, for the principle of private ownership is basic in the operation of the economic system revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. "Perhaps... when the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation... we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order."
President Clark also discussed the Constitution of the United States as affecting the land of Zion?North and South America. He pointed out that the Constitutions of the American republics contain the basic principles of freedom found in the Constitution of the United States, and that, without these principles, dictatorship, tyranny, and slavery are likely to arise.
President David O. McKay delivered Sunday morning the address for the Church of the Air. It was an eloquent discussion of today's problems and their cure. Men have forgotten God. Therefore, we have the world's present "mad orgy of death." He called upon the peoples of the world to return to the things of permanent value?they which are set forth in the simple Gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus and His doctrine are man's guiding light. Jesus is ever the light that shines in darkness.
The message of the First Presidency, delivered at the first session of the conference, was as a voice of love and authority to all the world. It began with a blessing for all men, and continued with a fervent testimony of the truth of the latter-day work. Then, in powerful words it set forth the evils of breaking the Word of Wisdom and called especial attention to the cruel effects of the use of alcoholic beverages. Obedience to this divine law of health is necessary in this day when man's every power, undiminished, is needed. The message then gave consideration to the moral conditions of the day; explained the fearful effects of violating the law of chastity; and called upon the Latter-day Saints to live the clean life. The sanctity of parenthood, and the attendant obligations, were brought to the attention of the people. "Motherhood is near to divinity." The Church was called upon to stand as a unit against evil and for righteousness.
There were in the message words of love and good cheer to our men in the armed service everywhere. "The Church is and must be against war," and it believes that "international disputes can and should be settled by peaceful means." The message closed, after an expression of gratitude for the devotion of the great body of the Church, with a glorious prayer:
Our Heavenly Father: In deep humility we Thy people, Israel of today, come to Thy throne pleading for Thy grace and Thy mercy. Forgive what Thou hast seen amiss in us, overlook our waywardness, keep not in mind our lightmindedness and our forgetfulness of our debt to Thee for all we have and are, but hold in memory our desire to serve Thee and to keep Thy commandments, and increase these to us from day to day. Let nothing be betwixt us and Thee at this hour.
And standing thus, our Heavenly Father, we beseech Thee speedily to work out Thy purposes in the earth. Bring quickly to those against whom Thy righteous anger has gone forth because of their iniquity, a sense of their sins and great guilt, and plant in their hearts a will to repent and hereafter to walk in Thy paths, guided only by Thy commandments, that, Thy purposes accomplished, peace, Thy peace and the peace of man, may return to bless the earth.
Stay the hands, O Father, of the Destroyer. Let him not further curse the world with the slaughter of Thy children, nor pour out upon them a fuller measure of the sore afflictions of famine, plague, and pestilence. We know what Thou hast decreed against a sinning world, but we humbly bow at Thy throne and with our whole hearts we pray Thee that, as seemeth to Thee well, in Thy infinite knowledge and wisdom, Thou wilt abate Thy righteous indignation, take away from the full measure of Thy punishments, hasten the carrying out of Thy purposes, shorten these days of world tribulation.
We know how we, Thy children, have erred, we know how we have failed to live the lives Thou has marked out for us, but at this time, O Father, we humbly pray that Thou wilt close Thine eyes to our misdoings and recall not our frailties, nor withhold forgiveness for our transgressions, but grant us this, our prayer for the speedy fulfillment of Thy purposes, that peace may come, that the cries of a wailing world may no longer afflict Thine ears, and that Thy people may again go forward in their work of spreading Thy gospel and bringing salvation to the honest in heart.
Bless the needy, the sick, the world over; make easy the pains of the innocent and righteous ones who have been torn by war; comfort the mothers, the widows, the fatherless. Be merciful to all who suffer in mind or body or spirit.
For thy boundless mercies to us we are humbly grateful. Lead us day by day so to live as to be more worthy of Thy manifold blessings without which we should perish. Grant us these blessings, O Father, for we ask them humbly in the name of Thy Son, Jesus Christ. Amen.
AT the last session of the conference, Sunday afternoon, the sacrament was administered to the thousands who crowded the Tabernacle. The general authorities, assisted by presidents of high priest quorums, broke the bread and served the water, blessed by President Rudger Clawson and Apostle George Albert Smith. The ward bishops of the Church passed the bread and water to the assembled multitude. It was a solemn and beautiful ordinance and occasion.
After the administration of the sacrament, testimonies were borne. Through the courtesy of radio station KSL, every person bearing his testimony was enabled to speak into a microphone, so that every word was heard distinctly by all present. The first to bear his testimony was President Heber J. Grant. His loving, forceful words pierced every heart. His mother had been sealed for eternity to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, therefore he was a son of the Prophet. In a spiritual experience it was revealed to him that he was called to the apostleship because of the request of Joseph Smith, to whom he belongs for eternity, and of J. M. Grant, his earthly father. This
(Continued on page 818)