LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March)
EDWIN ARLINGTON ROBINSON
Edwin Arlington Robinson might almost be called a "poet's poet," as it is safe to say that he is a very general favorite among poets. In the University of Paris we heard a lecturer refer to him as the first among modern American poets. To call a man a "poet's poet" is in no way an intimation that he will appeal to the masses; more often it is a suggestion that he carries with him a finesse of thought and style that is beyond the average person. However, we feel that there are enough poems of Mr. Robinson's that are fairly simple to answer our purpose in this lesson.
Edwin Arlington Robinson came very nearly being a Christmas baby. He was just three days old on that eventful 25th of December, 1869, that marks the period of his birth. He was born in the village of Head Tide, Maine. When a mere child his family moved to a town no great distance from his birthplace, called Gardiner. He entered Harvard College in 1891. By 1893 he had published a volume of verse. His first representative work was published under the caption of The Children of the Night, which appeared in 1897. Then came a struggle to make a living in the City of New York. Five years passed before the publication of Captain Craig, which appeared in 1902. His condensed method of expression, as shown in Captain Craig drew attention to the fact that America had produced a poet out of the ordinary. President Roosevelt, no doubt having in mind the fact that other American men of letters had been helped in their financial struggles through federal positions, offered him a place in the New York Custom House. Robinson entered the Custom House in 1905, remaining there until 1910. The year he left marks the publication of another volume of poetry known as The Town Down the River.
Yet the book above all others which was to establish his reputation as one to be regarded as foremost among American poets of today, is The Man Against the Sky, published in 1916. This volume was followed by The Three Taverns, in 1920. In all that Robinson has done he has challenged attention, because he is not inclined to merely accept things; he has the type of mind that "probes," turns things over, analyses, examines from many sides. This type of mind is one that is greatly admired in the twentieth century, so that some of Robinson's fame is undoubtedly due to a quality of mind which pleases the "intellectuals" of the day.
From The Man Against the Sky, published by The Macmillan Company, we include the poem entitled "The Gift of God," which is a very truthful revelation of the attitude of an adoring and proud mother, one who sees much more in her own son than is apparent to others:
THE GIFT OF GOD
Blessed with a joy that only she Of all alive shall ever know, She wears a proud humility For what it was that willed it so, That her degree should be so great Among the favored of the Lord That she may scarcely bear the weight Of her bewildering reward.
As one apart, immune, alone, Or featured for the shining ones, And like to none that she has known Of other women's other sons, The firm fruition of her need, He shines anointed; and he blurs Her vision, till it seems indeed A sacrilege to call him hers.
She fears a little for so much Of what is best, and hardly dares To think of him as one to touch With aches, indignities, and cares; She sees him rather at the goal, Still shining; and her dream foretells The proper shining of a soul Where nothing ordinary dwells.
Perchance a canvass of the town Would find him far from flags and shouts, And leave him only the renown Of many smiles and many doubts; Perchance the crude and common tongue Would havoc strangely with his worth; But she, with innocence unwrung, Would read his name around the earth.
And others, knowing how this youth Would shine, if love could make him great, When caught and tortured for the truth Would only writhe and hesitate; While she, arranging for his days What centuries could not fulfil, Transmutes him with her faith and praise, And has him shining where she will.
She crowns him with her gratefulness, And says again that life is good; And should the gift of God be less In him than in her motherhood, His fame, though vague, will not be small, As upward through her dream he fares, Half clouded with a crimson fall Of roses thrown on marble stairs.
"The Master," one of the poems taken from The Town Down the River, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, is another portrait of the immortal Lincoln. It is presumably written by one of his contemporaries shortly after the Civil War:
THE MASTER
A flying word from here and there Had sown the name at which we sneered, But soon the name was everywhere, To be reviled and then revered: A presence to be loved and feared, We cannot hide it, or deny That we, the gentlemen who jeered, May be forgotten by and by.
He came when days were perilous And hearts of men were sore beguiled; And having made his note of us, He pondered and was reconciled. Was ever master yet so mild As he, and so untamable? We doubted, even when he smiled, Not knowing what he knew so well.
He knew that undeceiving fate Would shame us whom he served unsought; He knew that he must wince and wait The jest of those for whom he fought; He knew devoutly what he thought Of us and of our ridicule; He knew that we must all be taught Like little children in a school.
We gave a glamour to the task That he encountered and saw through, But little of us did he ask, And little did we ever do. And what appears if we review The season when we railed and chaffed? It is the face of one who knew That we were learning while we laughed.
The face that in our vision feels Again the venom that we flung, Transfigured to the world reveals The vigilance to which we clung. Shrewd, hallowed, harassed, and among The mysteries that are untold, The face we see was never young, Nor could it ever have been old.
For he, to whom we had applied Our shopman's test of age and worth, Was elemental when he died, As he was ancient at his birth: The saddest among kings of earth, Bowed with a galling crown, this man Met rancor with a cryptic mirth, Laconicand Olympian.
The love, the grandeur, and the fame Are bounded by the world alone; The calm, the smouldering, and the flame Of awful patience were his own: With him they are forever flown Past all our fond self-shadowings, Wherewith we cumber the Unknown As with inept Icarian wings.
For we were not as other men: 'Twas ours to soar and his to see. But we are coming down again, And we shall come down pleasantly; Nor shall we longer disagree On what it is to be sublime, But flourish in our perigee And have one Titan at a time.
In the poem entitled "An Old Story" taken from The Children of the Night, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, we have condensed, in poetic form, the oft-told tale of one who resents the help and associations of a valuable friend, oblivious of his great worth, until after death:
AN OLD STORY
Strange that I did not know him then, That friend of mine! I did not even show him then One friendly sign;
But cursed him for the ways he had To make me see My envy of the praise he had For praising me.
I would have rid the earth of him Once, in my pride! *** I never knew the worth of him Until he died.
Edwin Arlington Robinson is distinguished among poets for his ability to draw portraits. No discussion of the poet would be complete that did not recognize the master's hand in this respect. His portraits are not of the ordinary sort, but are what are designated as "psychological portraits." He has given to us a whole gallery of paintings that use words rather than canvas and pigment. As an illustration of his portrait-painting we cite "Miniver Cheevy" taken from The Town Down the River, published by Charles Scribner's Sons. Miniver Cheevy was one of those dreamers who dreamed of the past and wished he were of it, and made a failure of the present that offers, in many ways, blessings that the past did not contain:
MINIVER CHEEVY
Miniver Cheevy, child of scorn, Grew lean while he assailed the seasons; He wept that he was ever born, And he had reasons.
Miniver loved the days of old When swords were bright and steeds were prancing; The vision of a warrior bold, Would set him dancing.
Miniver sighed for what was not, And dreamed, and rested from his labors; He dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, And Priam's neighbors.
Miniver mourned the ripe renown That made so many a name so fragrant; He mourned Romance, now on the town, And Art, a vagrant.
Miniver loved the Medici, Albeit he had never seen one; He would have sinned incessantly Could he have been one.
Miniver cursed the commonplace And eyed a khaki suit with loathing; He missed the mediaeval grace Of iron clothing.
Miniver scorned the gold he sought, But sore annoyed was he without it; Miniver thought, and thought, and thought, And thought about it.
Miniver Cheevy, born too late, Scratched his head and kept on thinking; Miniver coughed, and called it fate, And kept on drinking.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give illustrations of how the name of Lincoln has been "reviled and revered."
2. What thought has the author in mind when he writes the lines "That we, the gentlemen who jeered, may be forgotten by and by."
3. Sum up the pictures of the past presented in "Miniver Cheevy."
4. Give some information about "Thebes and Camelot, and Priam's neighbors."
5. What does the author mean when he says "He missed the mediaeval grace of iron clothing."
6. Do you think there is any irony in the poem "The Gift of God?"
7. Is there anywhere an intimation that this adored son might fall short of real greatness were he put to the test?