[WomansExponent | Vol14 | 1885 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: MISCELLANEOUS. | Author: Unknown]

MISCELLANEOUS.
	Though God may seem to frown in His
providences, yet He always smiles in His
promises.--Ex.

	Live near to God, and so all things will ap-
pear to you little in comparison with eternal
realities.--R. M. M' Cheyne.

  Good temper, like a sunny day, sheds a
brightness over everything. It is the sweetener
of toil and the soother of disquietude.--
Irving

	It is always good to know if only in passing
a charming human being: it refreshes one like
flowers and woods and clear brooks. --George
Eliot.

	If you have any doubt about woman's hav-
ing time to vote, visit a crazy quilt show, and
write yourself down as ignorant of woman's
spare time, as of woman herself.--Richmond
Independent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Nowhere can a man go that temptation can-
not find him, Temptation possesses a free pass
on all railroads, a free berth on all the boats, a
free entrance to school-rooms, and business
offices, and play-grounds,—and even to the
churches.—S.S. Times


The Bill to render legal marriage with a
deceased wife's sister stood for second reading
on June 11th, but as the Lords did not sit on
that day it could not come on, and it has since
been withdrawn. The question is one which
will probably be submitted to the new Parlia-
ment at an early date after the general elec-
tion, and as it is a subject on which there is a
very strong feeling among women the injustice
would be obvious if they were to remain en-
tirely without representation in the Legislature
which, will be asked to deal with it.—Ex


Patents have been issued, to women during
the week ending June 23rd, 1885, as follows:
	Mary G. Barbour, Bradford, Mass., Broiler
or Toaster.
	Clara E. Hosmer, Auburn, N. Y., Leggin.
	Mary E. Woodward, Parker, Dakota Ter.,
Folding crib.

	The following patenss were issued to women
during the week ending June 30, 1885:
	Lydia J. Cadwell, Chicago, Ill., Apparatus
for treating the products of rendering-tanks.
	Lydia S. Purington, Westboro', Mass., Cor-
set.
	Anna Dormitzer, New York, N. Y., Win-
dow-cleaning chair.
	Charlotte A. Gandill,Brooklyn, N.Y.,Lady's
skirt-protector.


