Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

CHOSEN from among all the state "Mothers of 1948" and a few extras, Mrs. Helen Gartside Hines of Springfield, Illinois, was selected United States "Mother of 1948." Sixty years old, she has ten children, nine of whom served in the armed forces during the war. She has the largest family listed in Who's Who in America. She has served on the Springfield school board and is the author of articles on family life.

FRIEDA MILLER, director of the United States Women's Bureau, believes that any woman who will fit herself for a post can have a career after she is forty. She must, however, be flexible and able to adjust.

AN interesting recent convert to the Church is Agnes Dalziel Hitchings, noted portrait artist, who has studied with some of the world's best teachers in Paris. A native of Scotland, she has painted in the African deserts and in tropical isles.

ELsie Jensen (Mrs. Philip Brach), regional director of the American Association for the United Nations, with offices in Los Angeles, has been a teacher among the California Indians, and was a member of the United Nations Delegation to the UNESCO Conference at Mexico City. An ardent worker for international peace, she addressed the Soroptimist convention in Salt Lake City.

Soroptimist clubs in Denmark, China, and England are exchanging knowledge of their respective countries.

Mrs. Amy Mellor Howe, ninety-four, an active genealogical worker in the Church, died in March in Salt Lake City.

PORTLAND, Oregon, has elected its first woman mayor, Dorothy McCullough Lee. Mrs. Lee unseated Mayor R. E. Riley, winning more votes than he and five other male candidates combined. Mayorelect Lee will introduce the city manager type of government and will take official charge of the police department. A promise vigorously to combat vice was a major plank in her platform.

F Stone and Star, a recently published anthology, contains poems by the Utah Sonneteers: Alice Mortey Bailey, Claire Stewart Boyer, Leila Grace Bassford, Maude Blixt, Christie Lund Coles, Berta Huish Christensen, Vesta Pierce Crawford, Beatrice K. Ekman, Anna Prince Redd, and Dorothy J. Roberts. The poems cover a wide range of subject material and reveal much variety in creative technique. Most of the authors are well-known to readers of The . Eight of the women represented have been successful contestants over a period of years in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest.