Vol. 

Shrift as a Way of Life
LATTER DAY Saint women have been given the priceless heritage of thrift. From frugal New England housewives, from industrious European homemakers, from wise pioneer women who loved their homes and considered work a privilege, has come this tradition of thrift. It is a most wholesome and valuable combination of industry and economy, and may be explained as the unusual ability to do without—to make things do or to make them over—to create something from nothing, as the saying goes.

The heritage of thrift, which was a necessity for survival in pioneer days, is still of great worth and is the mark of a good housekeeper even in our mechanized civilization. The criterion so well defined in Proverbs (31:10-31) is still applicable to all women, even to those who live in cities, for thrift is, as explained in scripture, a virtue of many phases, embodying particularly the wise selection and securing of life's necessities and a careful use of everything.

A virtuous woman seeketh wool and flax, a worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household.... She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.... She is not afraid of the snow... For all her household are clothed with scarlet.
 
Examples of pioneer thrift, many of which apply equally well to the troubled days in which we live, are numerous. "Take, for instance, the father's outworn suit or the mother's unfashionable coat. What happened to them? They were made into trousers and a jacket for the young son or into a skirt and coat for a growing girl. Then, again, the same material was used for a still smaller child. Eventually the original article of clothing found its way into a quilt, a rug, or into the covering (or stuffing) for a chair. Even the final scraps of a ragged rug became part of a mattress or a cushion. At times, even thread was saved and no buttons or fasteners were discarded.

The long series of articles made from one piece of material were neither ugly nor cheap looking, but were made lovingly, with much attention to fine detail. And the bread which the industrious homemaker prepared for her family—what was the process there? Whole-wheat flour (often ground at home) was used, and when the brown loaves had been slowly baked they were (and still may be) a great delicacy. Dry bread was never wasted. If not used with milk or in soup, it was ground and kept handy for toppings on baked dishes, for making dressing, or for use in puddings.

Soap making was another pioneer art which is still useful. Very few homemakers who do not throw away enough fats and grease to provide at least part of the necessary laundry soap. And soapmaking is not a difficult process, and it is fun to do.

The creative and constructive abilities of women find satisfying expression in securing, preserving, and using the necessities of life—in making an art of homework. The home and its surroundings are a wide and wonderful world, filled with infinite possibilities.

To paraphrase Proverbs, if you would find a happy woman, look for one who is busy in the ways of thrift, who considers homemaking an opportunity for the development of many skills. Who maketh herself coverings of tapestry... She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness." V. P. C.