Principles and Laws Governing Good Singing Florence J. Madsen
Member, Relief Society General Board

How wonderful is the human voice! It is indeed the organ of the soul. The intellect of man sits enthroned, visibly, on his forehead and in his eye, and the heart of man is written on his countenance, but the soul reveals itself in the voice only—Longfellow

This is but one of the many recorded statements that have been made by poets, philosophers, and musicians during past centuries on the wonders of the human voice. This high estimate of the voice is just as much a reality today as it was then. This is a golden age of musical possibilities. Most schools and churches regard vocal study and performance as indispensable to the perpetuation and advancement of educational ideals and moral growth. Our Church has always encouraged and stressed the development of musical talents.

Courses have been adopted, singing groups have been organized, and teachers and leaders have been appointed to advance musical culture commensurate with Church ideals and interests. This has led to specialized activity in the art of singing. Vocal art includes several very important factors which, in turn, are made up of many fundamental details. In order to effect further advancement in our singing organizations it becomes necessary to study and emphasize these. Since tone quality is the basic element of beautiful singing, this detail should be given first consideration. The vowel is the source of tone. If it is perfect the tone will be likewise. This fact makes it fundamentally necessary to study the vowel, how to speak and sing it properly. Vowels must be sung without restraint or interference of any kind. To do this the following rules should be observed while singing: a. Open the mouth almost to a yawn position. B. Originate all vowels in the same place, the back of the mouth—the pharynx. C. Sustain all vowels from beginning to end with the same volume unless otherwise indicated. D. Sing the vowels in the easy range of the voice with "M" as the prefix and sustain each one eight counts, four gradually louder (crescendo); four gradually softer (decrescendo or diminuendo). Sing in slow tempo. Then increase to sixteen counts and divide in the same proportion. Avoid all throat restriction and tension of tongue and jaw in all singing. E. To sing properly the chest and nbs must be kept high and expanded, while the abdominal muscles are lifted and contracted. This type of breathing should be practiced until it becomes a habit. This is also essential to good speaking.

[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting.]