Literature of the Gospel Restoration." A brief outline suggestive of the study centers of this part of the course follows:
1. Literature of the Beginnings Background study of family and boyhood of Joseph Smith in source writings—and study from literary viewpoint of Joseph's own story of the restoration.
2. Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Study of some of the dramatic events portrayed in this new "Book of Books"—this from the standpoint of effective storytelling.
3. Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon Study of distinctive contributions of religious import and of literary value in the Book of Mormon.
4. Words of Light and Truth From the Prophet Study of choice selections from the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
5. Earlier Evangelistic Literature Study of selected excerpts from diaries, autobiographies, and other writings by loyal ones who helped in establishing the Church through testing years.
6. Lyric Expression of the Restoration Study of gospel songs and other poetic expression vibrant with the message of the new dispensation.
7. Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years Study of selections from this expository literature written to clarify and impress basic principles of the restored gospel in action.
8. Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Study of distinctive and dependable literature portraying soul-testing, dramatic incidents that mark the rise of the Church under the inspired leadership of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
This spread of inviting work may we again impress represents a pioneering venture into a rich realm. It is entered into humbly with one thought, that of doing good. Our hope is not to cover the wide field with adequacy; rather do we trust that it may be opened alluringly, that new interest will be wakened, enjoyment and enrichment come to those who pioneer with us.
Further, this first year's work on "Literature of the Gospel Restoration" should lay a good foundation for the second year's course which is to be centered round the general theme, "Literature of the Expanding Pioneer Period." 
Lesson 1—Literature of the Beginnings Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, October 19, 1948
O P letters often give living glimpses of the past. Thoughts, feelings, home news, comments on passing events, informally written to friends and loved ones, are revealing of the character of the writer as well as of the days in which he or she lived. Sometimes such letters, in parts, rise to literary excellence; always they are source material of more or less help to historians and authors.
Fortunately for our present purpose, two such old letters have been preserved since the days when Washington was President of our country. They both were written by a stalwart American, Asael Smith, paternal grandfather of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and great-great-grandfather of George Albert Smith, now President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This grandsire, born in 1744, twelve years after the "Father of our Country" came into the world, had lived through the stirring years of the French and Indian War, the Revolutionary War, in which he took part as a soldier of the American army, and on through the founding of our Nation to the year 1830, when our Church was organized.
The first of these letters, written to a friend, Jacob Town, reveals Asael Smith as one of the solid New England type, God-fearing, patriotic, of loyal friendship, with independent spirit, and a sense of humor.

After acknowledging with appreciation a letter from his friend, telling with gratitude of the well-being of his family, and giving word of the building of a new home, Asael writes of a "noisy" political party just defeated in its hopes to seize power. Then he comments: For my part, I am so willing to trust the government of the world in the hands of the Supreme Ruler of Universal Nature, that I do not, at present, wish to try to wrest it out of His hands.... He has conducted us through a glorious Revolution and has brought us into the promised land of peace and liberty; and I believe that He is about to bring all the world in the same beatitude in His own time and way. Then comes this touch of pleasantry: Give my best regards to your parents and tell them I have taken up with the eleventh commandment, that the negro taught to the minister, which was thus: The minister asked the negro how many commandments there were and his answer was "eleven, sir." "Aye," replied the other. "What is the eleventh? That is one I have never heard of." "The eleventh commandment, sir, is mind your own business." So I choose to do. Write to me as often and as large as you can and oblige your friend and well-wisher. (signed) Asael Smith

The second letter, written for his family, and to be read after his death, contains such gems of religious thought as the following: The soul is immortal; you have to deal with an infinite Majesty. Do all to God in a serious manner; when you think of Him, speak of Him, pray of Him, or in any way make your addresses to His great Majesty, be in good carest. Trifle not with His name nor with His attributes, nor call Him to witness to anything but is absolute truth. If you find that you stand in need of a Savior, Christ saith: "Look unto me."

Other gems of practical wisdom are in these lines from the letter: Above everything avoid a melancholy disposition, that is a humor that admits of any temptation and is capable of any impression and distemper. Any honest calling will honor you, if you honor that. Persevere in the way of well-doing and you may hope for success.

The letter closes with this paragraph: And all, and myself... And wish to leave to you everything I have in this world but oblivion; but leaving my virtues, if ever I had any, to revive and live in you (B.H., Comprehensive History of the Church, I, pp. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12). Surely the virtues of this grandsire have lived on in his posterity and have been amplified for the everlasting good of mankind.

Another type of literature represented by the History of Joseph Smith, by His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, brings us close to the Prophet's boyhood, and gives the story of his visions and soul-testing struggles through the earlier years of the restoration. All this is portrayed in its relation to loyal family life which characterized the Smith home. It is a story out of a loving, heroic mother heart.

In straightforward narrative, with 483 richness of incidents such as women more than men treasure, the life of her son Joseph is portrayed. Naturally the background of ancestry, of the struggles to make a livelihood in what was frontier Vermont and tugged western New York are given attention. One feels, too, the devout faith in God from the first through the pages of the little volume. At times, too, the narration attains qualities of story-telling art.

In chapter fifteen, for illustration, where heroic efforts are made with mother love and faith to save her son Joseph from a dangerous infection, the little drama is stirringly told. Doctors had decided the boy's leg must be amputated, but the mother insisted that one more trial be made to save it. This is the mother's story: The principal Surgeon... ordered cords to be brought to bind Joseph fast to a bedstead; but to this Joseph objected. The doctor, however, insisted that he must be confined, upon which Joseph said very decidedly, "No, doctor, I will not be bound, for I can bear the operation much better if I have my liberty!" "Then," said Dr. Stone, "will you drink some brandy?" "No," said Joseph, "not one drop!" "Will you take some wine?" rejoined the doctor. "You must take something, ation to which you must be subjected." " exclaimed Joseph, "I will not touch one particle of liquor, neither will I be tied down; but I will tell you what I will do—I will have my father sit on the bed and hold me in his arms, and then I will do whatever is necessary in order to have the bone taken out."

Looking at me, he said, "Mother, I want you to leave the room, for I know you cannot bear to see me suffer so; father can stand it, but you have carried me so much, and watched over me so long, you are almost worn out." Then looking up into my face, his eyes swimming in tears, he continued, "Now Mother, promise me that you will not stay, will you! The Lord will help me, and I shall get through with it."

Another home drama of heart-touching quality is portrayed with like skill in chapter nineteen. Here the death of Alvin Smith, eldest brother of Joseph, is related. Again the tender mother love, the loyalty of the family, more closely drawn together through the persecutions heaped on them for the sake of devotion to the truth, are revealed.

This faithful brother's counsel to all of them, and especially to his brother Joseph, is most impressive: "I am now going to die, the distress which I suffer, and the feelings that I have tell me my time is very short. I want you to be a good boy, and do everything that lies in your power to obtain the Record. Be faithful in receiving instruction, and in keeping every commandment that is given you. Your brother Alvin must leave you; but remember the example which he has set for you; and set the same example for the children that are younger than yourself, and always be kind to father and mother."

How faithfully this beloved brother's counsel was followed is impressively revealed in the life story of the Prophet Joseph. Happily we have that story in his own straightforward words. With distinctive clarity of style and convincing detail—for all whose hearts and minds are open to accept spiritual truth—the autobiographical sketch is written. Yet, whether accepted or not accepted, it has the qualities of a classic—it will be read and re-read down the ages.

What gives to this life-story such classic qualities? Its central message that God lives.

This the boy expressed with simple, trenchant words: I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me.... I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.: Here is a courageous statement that will ever stand high in religious literature of the world. It is a burning testimony of truth out of the soul of a youth who had been given a divine work to do. With his characteristic straightforward style, Joseph Smith relates the rest of the story of the gospel restoration as he lived it. It is a simple, direct, natural unfolding of a stirring sequence of events. From a literary viewpoint, like other effective narration, it moves forward with clarity of sentences and orderly paragraphs. Such writings may be compared to a chain made up of "story links." Observe, for illustration, this construction of "Joseph Smith's Own Story." After a brief paragraph on his birth in old Vermont, and of the new home in western New York, this chain of events is given: Religious Conflict; A Boy's Problem; Biblical Wisdom; First Prayer; Divine Answer; Derision and Ostracism; Heroic Testimony of the Truth; Lonely, Wayward Years; "An Angel from on High"; A