EARNING THRIFT STAMPS By Utah's Famous Cartoonist, Jack Sears. 
 Women who have Lighted Pioneer Home Fires. MARY ELIZABETH GARDNER TURNER. Bedford, Wyoming. Mary Elizabeth, daughter of Archibald and Mary Ann Bradford Gardner, was born February 1, 1850, at Mill Creek, Salt Lake County, Utah. Her father being a great mill man, her young days were spent partly in the canyons in summer and at Mill Creek in the winter. Now the first thing that made a lasting impression on her was when they were preparing to move South; they let her help pack the flour in the boxes which her father took with him and which he stored in what they called the Flour House. They lived in this house until he could build a better one. Sister Turner thinks they did it more to amuse her than because of any good she could do, but she was proud to think she could help get ready for the move. Another time she can remember when she felt proud; it was along about the time when cloth could not be bought and their clothes were nearly worn out, so her mother took her straw-tick  it was one of those narrow-striped blue and white ones  and made three of the little girls dresses. They braided wheat straw and made a hat out of the braid and trimmed it with a band of green calico with little yellow flowers on the calico. They also made what they called pantalets: the tops were made of any kind of pieces they could get, but the bottoms were made of the same green calico that the hats were trimmed with. They came a little below the dresses to keep the sun from browning their legs as they had neither stockings nor shoes at that time. Their feet were washed nice and clean and their best clothing put on, and hand in hand they would start off for meeting. There was a saying that "Queen Victoria never dressed better  all new clothes at one time." This family did not stay long South before they moved 
 back. Her mother stopped at what is now known as Riverton, as the father had a hay-field there. The howling of the wolves at night is well remembered by those early pioneers; on one occasion they came and stood with their front paws on the window sill and looked in at the family, but the mother made a big fire in the fireplace, and told the children not to be afraid, as no wild animal would come near a fire. Her father was called as bishop of West Jordan, and the family moved there and made that their home until the mother died, January 27, 1864. November 25, 1865, Mary was married to William Turner, son of James and Mary Ann Finch Turner. They made their home on the east side of the river, which consisted of a log room with a door and a twelve-light 10x12 window in the west, and a six light of the same size glass in the east. For Robert Gardner Rebecca Gardner, Mary Elizabeth Gardner Turner a cupboard they had two holes bored in the logs and pins put in, with boards laid across. They did their cooking in the old-fashioned fireplace. Their dishes consisted of a camp-kettle, a bake-oven, frying-pan and a tin bucket for a teakettle. A table was made of a large clothes-box put up on two pins in the wall with a curtain around it, where different things were kept. A bedstead was made by boring two holes in the logs, one in the north and one in the east side; then taking a short piece of a pole and boring two holes in it to match the others, then putting short pieces of the pole in them and lacing it across and across with a horsehair rope for springs (which they did themselves). However, they had a pretty decent set of dishes which her husband brought with him the year before they were married, when he went back after emigrants. They used benches for chairs and WOMEN PIONEERS. 487 were happy in their love for one another, and they were as well fixed as any of their neighbors. While living on that side of the river they had four children, but lost the first, a boy, when he was two months old; the second, when he was only four hours, and the third when she was eighteen months. They began to think they were not going to rear any of their children. While still living there her husband made another trip after emigrants. The next child was born, February 19, 1870 (the oldest living at the present time), and when she was a little over a month old they moved over to the west side of the river, about one mile west and about a quarter of a mile south of the Jordan Mills, where they took up some land. As they had started to dig the first canal on that side there was nothing but sage brush and no water fit to use nearer than the river, so they tried to dig wells, but could get no water. While in that condition her husband was called to go and help to haul the saw mill down to Mount Trumbo, to saw lumber for the St. George Temple. He was gone over six weeks, but Sister Turner thought that long enough as she had to carry her baby, lead the cow and carry water for house use, one pig and a dozen chickens, and there were many tramps roaming around as they were building the railroad up to Bingham and that was not far from their home. As they had no neighbors nearer than a mile, if she was not too tired she would go to her father's at night to sleep, otherwise, she used to take her bed out in the brush or in the grain after dark (as they had seven acres of wheat that year), and make up her bed, take her baby, go backwards, straighten up the trail, and go to sleep, as she knew if anybody came they would go to the house and never think of looking there for anyone. One Sunday after her husband returned home and while he was at meeting, Sister Turner heard a noise, and thinking it was a terrible wind, she went to the door, and to her great astonishment and dismay she saw a great swarm of grasshoppers, so thick that they darkened the sun like a black cloud, and alighted on the grain. By the time her husband returned from meeting there was hardly enough grain left to show there had ever been any, and there was no garden left except where the onions were: there were holes left in the ground, as the grasshoppers had eaten all the onions but the little roots. So they hooked up their cattle the next morning and went up Mill Creek Canyon to her father's mill. Sister Turner cooked for some of the men while her husband logged there till fall; then they went back home. Her husband was always a great man to think of others. They lived between the two roads going to Bingham, and if he knew of anyone being up there for wood and did not get home before dark and a fog or storm came up, he 
 would always have the light in the window, so they could see it if they got lost; and there has often been folks go to them and say that they would surely have frozen to death if it had not been for the light. At the time of the persecution, Sister Turner, with others, used to visit the penitentiary about every two weeks to visit the brethren (who lived so far away that their own folks could not get there), and take them such things as the law would allow, and take their washing and do it for them. As they were not allowed to see more than two at once, they would stay until their time was up, and would get the two brethren to give them the names of two others in the same fix. They would do the same for the next two, and so on. Sister Turner continued her visits until they moved to Wyoming. When she came back the next June she went to visit the brethren again. The man in the office, where she went for the pass asked whom she wanted to see, and she handed him a paper with six names on, and said she did not care which two he gave her as she did not know either of them. He said she must have come out of pity if she didn't know any of them, and that she could see them all. That was the last time she visited the penitentiary. Sister Turner joined the Relief Society when Sister Eliza R. Snow and others organized the Relief Society in Jordan. She was chosen president of the Thayn Relief Society when she went to Wyoming and when that ward was divided was chosen president of the Bedford Society until the family joined the Grover ward. She has since been chosen as one of the stake aids, which position she still holds. Sister Turner says that her husband was never called on a mission to preach, but often was called to do work, and he never refused or complained at what he was called to do or give. He was called as a member of the first High Council of the Star Valley Stake, and held that position until his death, October 17, 1906. After the canal was finished in West Jordan, they built a brick house of six rooms and lived there till their last child (the tenth, a girl) was nearly eight years old. On account of the persecution her father could do nothing at home, so hearing they needed a mill out in Star Valley he went there and built both a saw mill and a grist mill. In August, 1890, they took a notion to go out and see her father. They were gone about two weeks and when they got within a few miles of home her brother met them and told them that the little girl had diphtheria. They got home in time to see her alive, but she died that night (August 28). It was indeed a severe blow to the mother and father. They fixed up their things and sold their home to President George O. Cannon, and started for Star Valley in September, WOMEN PIONEERS. 489 where they arrived on the 25th. They settled on a nice stream near the mouth of a canyon (Willow Creek). The family and a young man who was with them lived in a 10x12 tent and covered wagon. While the men folks were cutting a road over a mountain to get to Afton, where the saw mill was, in order to shorten the distance instead of going around the regular road, the mother with the younger boys and the girls went hunting a place to get their winter wood, and were picking out a place to build their house, and by night they had accomplished both. They got out the logs and with the assistance of a young man who came and offered to help them, laid up the logs. Excepting for the one day's help they did the work by themselves, but it seemed slow, as the lumber had to be hauled ten miles over that rough road. Sister Turner assisted her husband while the rest were busy getting wood and hauling hay, which had to be hauled eleven miles from the north. In October of that year eleven inches of snow fell, and those who had been there for some time said that it wouldn't go off till spring. So to be sure of a home they went to Afton and bought a house and lot and also a cow. But in a few days the snow was all gone, so they finished their house as they all went to work with a will. One of the girls put on the roof and did other work. Sister Turner made the door and window frames  one panel door for the front and two batten doors for the back. In six HOME AND SAW-MILL OF TURNER FAMILY IN TURNERVILLE, WYO. 
 weeks they had their house finished and moved into it. They also had a shelter for their horses. They never used their home in Afton, but brought the cow home and turned her out on the flat to feed, and one night Sister Turner went to get the cow to milk her. Hearing something in the willows and thinking it was the cow, she followed the sound, but could not see the cow, the willows were so thick, but could hear its heavy tread and see the grass straighten up; so on she went till she came to a clearing, when the animal raised up on its haunches and made a peculiar sound, and to her surprise it was a large black bear. She was not more than two rods from it, but never went any closer to it. She went away and let the bear do the same. There were many wild animals roaming the hills in those days. When they moved into their new home they needed furniture and as there was no furniture store nearer than sixty miles and to bring much that distance was impossible, Sister Turner herself made a cupboard, a kitchen cabinet, bedstead, bookcase and other things which the family are still using. She then made a spinning wheel  head and all  on which her youngest daughters and herself spun yarn for all their stockings besides enough to make a piece of linsey forty yards in length. A dress made of the linsey Sister Turner wore eleven winters, then gave it to an Indian woman. Sister Turner's oldest daughter came back to Utah to live. After the family had been in Wyoming a few years the father built a saw mill which he and the boys ran till his death. Then the mother took charge of it and she and the boys have operated it every winter since. After the saw mill was built the father built a new home, the picture of which is given here. According to this sketch, Sister Turner has done all kinds of work, from building houses and running saw mills to doing her own housework. She has grubbed brush, helped to plow, fenced, watered, hoed, cut the crops with the sickle and scythe. She is now sixty-eight years old and last year she helped to clear a little over half an acre of new ground and put in potatoes. She then dug the post holes and helped to put the posts in and put up the slabs around it. She also dug a piece of land 148 feet long, one rod wide, and put in her own garden. She does her own chores, feeds and tends five head of stock, milks two cows, and tends to a span of mules which she drives herself. She says that her father was a great man for machinery and often said it was better to wear out than to rust out, so Sister Turner is endeavoring not to let herself get rusty, and with the amount of work she is doing at present, there is little danger of such a thing happening to her. She feels that she is greatly blessed, as she has all of her family, excepting the oldest daughter, around her  so near that she can make them WOMEN PIONEERS. 491 hear when she calls. She has seen them all married in the temples and has now forty grand children living and five dead, and all that are old enough have been baptized. There is only one family outside of their own who lives in their little valley, which has been named after the family (Turnerville). The oldest son filled a mission in the Southern States about twenty years ago. The third son is on a mission now in West Virginia. The daughter who lives there in that little valley is president of the Primary, and two of Sister Turner's daughters-in-law are her counselors. The other has charge of the Religion Class. Sister Turner has done temple work for about 200 and still hopes to do a great deal more, or pay for having it done.