GUIDE LESSONS. 539 Teh power of a word is greater than we think, because the word actually partakes of the thought or action of which it is the symbol; and if the body is a necessary part of the soul, enclosing the spirit within it and making it possible for the spirit to speak and move and act, so then is the wo d the important part of the thought of which it is the tabernacle, or the body. Let your imagination dwell also a moment on the condition of a family who were born and brought up and given no names by which to call each other. They would have to motion to each other, out in orsuch call confusion each otherand "Say," anrl At chaos. "scarcely a daymancould once the be lived would find a name for the woman and the woman would choose something by which to call her children. Primitive savages, like children, make signs to each other, and this sign language is still used by ome savage races as well as used in a small degree by semi-civilized people. In the army they make signs with little flags from one point to another and from one ship to another, which they call "wig-wagging." God Himself gave Adam and Eve names, as you will find in the Pearl of Great Price. He not only did that, but He also instructed Adam to name the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air (Pearl of Great Price). Indeed we learn from this sacred book that Adam learned to write, and, of course, to read through the teaching of an angel (Ch. 6, verses 5, 6, 7, 8). We know from reading the Bible how reverently and carefully the ancient Hebrews chose names for their children. They were named reverently, because the parents realized that there is a close spiritual connection between a name and the person who bears it. And while anyone need not be unduly influenced for good or evil by his name, still the chances are that there will be an intimate reaction between the name and the person. Pagans became superstitious over naming, and fear often dominated them in their choice of personal names. People who have anv religious belief make ceremonial occasions for christening children, or bestowing upon them names. These ceremonies differed, of course, according to time, place and nationality. QUESTIONS. What is a symbol? (See dictionary.) How do Indians communicate at times? How were Adam and Eve named? Give a name incident from the Bible. What ceremony attends the naming of Latter-day Saint children? What is your personal name? And yours? And yours? 
 Let each member of the class endeavor to ascertain the meaning and origin of her personal name. Student lUbles often contain a list of Hebrew names and their meanings. Dictionaries, encyclopedias and other sources may be consulted. When impossible to ascertain the meaning of the name it may be referred to the Stake Genealogical Committee, who may send to this office the lists of any personal names, if of Anglo-Saxon origin. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in October. CLOTHING THE FEET. One of the most essential comforts which an individual can possess, is that of proper covering for the feet. In fact one is not well dressed unless health and comfort are the concern of the wearer. Many times shoes and hose are selected with never a thought of comfort or economy. Money is expended wholly for style, fad, or color, and with never a consideration of suitability or wearing quality in the articles purchased. Someone has said that the moral advantage of family life is the suppression of a one-sided development. How well may this statement be applied in regard to the clothing budget. To discourage extravag'ant and unnecessary buying, and to purchase wisely, should be uppermost in the problems of clothing expenditures of today. Frequent reference to the family budget in regard to footwear would be the means of setting right many who blindly shop for such articles. It is difficult to find an average percentage cost to be allotted to shoes and hose, owing to the variation in the least possible minimum or number of pairs required to meet the demands for different individuals. However, in observing budg'et accounts for girls in school and office, there is sufficient proof to say that an average expenditure for footwear should not exceed one-fifth of the total amount expended for clothes. A woman earning fourteen dollars a week should not afiford more than two dollars a week for clothes, forty cents of which should go for footwear. This amount could not possibly pay for an outlay of silk hosiery and novelty shoes. It would merely cover the expense of sensible, good-wearing shoes and hose, and in addition, for the upkeep of old ones which may be repaired. The life of shoes depends greatly upon the care taken of them. Several pairs alternated in the wearing provides a chance for proper airing and less chance to lose their shape; especially GUIDE LESSONS. 541 if fit with shoe trees while not in use. Soles replenished or patched are necessary economy. Rubbers worn in wet weather prevent water from rotting the threads and separating the soles. Substantial low heels are satisfactory not only in properly balancing the body, but they do not wear off readily, hence require less repair than do fancy heels. Heels not repaired in time cause shoes to lose their shape and good appearance. Rubber heels are very satisfactory in wear and comfort. Leather may be kept flexible and impervious to dampness if occasionally rubbed with tallow, oils or vaseline and allowed to thoroughly dry before wearing. Invest in a mild polish which will not crack or rot the leather. Patent leather shoes do not wear long, and being nonporous are not comfortable in hot weather. Cheap shoes are not economical. It is best to get a standard make of shoes and buy no others unless the make is dependable. The care of stockings is also a vital feature in their service and length of life. Frequent laundering removes perspiration which rots and destroys the threads. Silk hose in contact with hot weather are weakened materially. They should be washed in a lukewarm suds of soap and water at least three times a week, if in constant use. To prevent runners starting at the top of the stocking, a machine stitching may be run around the hem with the use of a fine needle. A blunt needle in this case would cut the threads and do more injury than good. The tops of good stockings may be reinforced by using the tops of cast offs which are worth while. New feet may be used in old stockings or feet cut from old uppers, arranging the seam to come on the sides of the foot so as not to make a disagreeable ridge under the foot. Oftentimes, runners are started from the garters which can be avoided by placing a pad next to the sharp edge of the clasp. Much inquiry has been made in regard to proper supporters. The elastic above or below the knee stops circulation, hence it is very necessary to have the support come from the shoulders or hips. Straps may be made to extend from the shoulder and to cross in the front and back. Hip garters are widely accepted as there is no strain upon any particular part of the body, and they are easily made with the use of a yoke which fits the hips from which extends side and front garters. In purchasing hose it is very important to know a reliable make and to consider an economical grade, as cheap and unstable hose tend as much in depleting the purse as does the lack of immediate repairs. QUESTIONS. What important features should be kept in mind in purchasing shoes and hosiery? 
 What significance does footwear have in regard to the family budget? Upon what depends the life of shoes and hose? How do you care for shoes? For stockings? How may old hose be utilized? What is your opinion in regard to supporters? What brand of hose do you purchase? OUR SURNAME BOOK. The Surname Book will be ready for our students and friends by the 1st of September. There are 600 pages, with thirty-one chapters, and the Church surname index; with thirty-eight maps, charts and illustrations. Price, $3.00. In lots of one dozen or more, $2.75. The edition is limited, send in orders immediately; first come, first served. MUSIC BOOK. We hope to have our Music Book ready by October Conference. Price, 75 cents. Lots of one dozen, 65 cents. Send orders for both these books to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. HOUSEKEEPERS PRIZES AT STATE FAIR. The Premium List of our coming State Fair has an innovation in the shape of an intelligent, up-to-date list of prizes for Housekeepers and Homemakers. Certainly Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe has done a brave, unheard-of piece of work. Prizes for all sorts of women's and children's clothing  not alone fancy work and embroidery  but shirt waists and children's nighties, pin cushions, knit shawls, gifts for invalids and old ladies, kitchen aprons, homemade hats, comfort kits, pajamas, darning and patching, remodeled clothing, Victory bread, one-piece dishes, meat pies, cottage cheeses, dried vegetables and fruits, with budgets for families of two or twenty on incomes or no incomes  well, surely, the women will go en masse to the Fair. Glad someone realizes housekeeping is a business and homemaking is an art. Good-bye, Fancy Work! Good-day, War Bread! The Country Needs Your Help The demands upon business executives today are the greatest ever known. They are constantly seeking bright, willing and capable workers who can handle various parts of the office routine. PREPARE FOR SERVICE Fit yourself through taking advantage of one of our courses to take one of these good positions. Throw your energy into winning the war by helping to keep business going. This appeal is especially directed to young women. Write or call and see us at once. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Shorthand Bookkeeping Telegraphy Burroughs Calculator Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 1918-19 The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, September 15, 1918, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. Term eight months. This course consists of general instructions in nursing, emphasizing Home Care of the Sick, with practical demonstrations, seven and one-half hours per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures and practical demonstrations in Invalid Cooking, First Aid Work, Hydrotherapy, Sterilization, and lectures on Elementary Hygiene, Public Health, Contagious Diseases, Drugs and Solutions, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. These lecture courses, which are given successively and cover a period of five hours a week, will be given by prominent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course will be required to do at least twenty-five hours of field work in practical nursing during the term under the direction of the school. Tuition $25.00 cash, thirty days service charity nursing. Tuition to be paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. For further information, address Mrs.