[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: Miss Alice Louise Reynolds | Author: Unknown]

MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
(First Utah lady to obtain a degree in Eng-
lish University.)
	Miss Reynolds whose full name is given
above has returned recently from abroad,
where she has been studying and has suc-
ceeded remarkably well and reached the
dignity of receiving a degree in an honor
which comparatively few American women
have ever obtained abroad. She is the first
from Utah to receive this reward of merit,
and the Utah women are certainly honored
in her successful achievement of this dis-
tinction.
	It is a well-known fact that our boys and
girls have, when studying in colleges and
universities in America, been quite success-
ful in any line of education as specialists or
otherwise which they have undertaken.
	The women of Utah will feel a pride in
the success of Miss Reynolds and will look
forward with fond anticipation to results in
her future pursuits of knowledge in the lines
of work wherein she has specialized.
	It has long been known among the peo-
ple of this state, that Miss Reynolds was a
brilliant scholar, and was doing excellent
work in the Brigham Young University.
And now we are justly proud that she has
been awarded this "high degree," from so
famous an institution as the London Uni-
versity. It is very well known how critical
these learned professors are, and therefore
we feel assured that Miss Reynolds has
"won her spurs" honorably and must have
been diligent in season and out of season,
or she could not have succeeded in meriting
the honor conferred. We are aware that
it is quite impossible to slight one's work
in those old and famous instiutions of learn-
ing.
	Miss Reynolds held the position of As-
sistant Professor of English in the Brigham
Young University at Provo for sixteen
years, and fianlly decided to travel through
some of the European countries and study

[Column 2]
in some of the famous institutions of learn-
ign in other lands.
	It is well understand that women students
at Oxford and Cambridge and other great
English schools are not granted a degree,
this is only done in the University of Lon-
don—therefore Miss Reynolds made choice
of that celebrated institution—and studied at
three of the many colleges of that Univer-
sity King's College on the Strand in South
Kensington and University College. The
courses she selected were special studies in
Tennyson, Arnold and Browning and a
course in higher criticism by Professor Ker,
a course in the romantic poets, by Guth-
keltch, and one in English history, by Pro-
fessor Polland. She also did research work
in the library of the British Museum, on
the history of the Tudor period and in the
life and works of Browning.
	Miss Reynolds it appears, had privileges
of social intercourse that are new to some of
us not familiar with English schools, etc.
	One very charming feature is a 4 o'clock
tea served in the women's rooms, and con-
siderable friednliness prevails during that
hour among the students. Chapel was an
interesting period, no one is admitted ex-
cept wearing the regulation costume. There
are many very new and interesting things,
that could be mentioned in connection with
Miss Reynolds' studies in these great old
English institutions and libraries—and it is
well for women who are desirous of gen-
eral information along literary lines to be-
come acquainted with these things from
those who have been among these wonderful
places and actually partaken of the uplifting
tendency of the higher and broader fields
of advancement and have come home to us
with the humility that is characteristic of a
true Latter-day Saint.
	Miss Reynolds has visited many of the
old cities on the continent, and we all know
travel is educational in the truest sense to
those who are at all observing, consequent-
ly the lady must have a mine of informa-
tion to impart to those who come within her
sphere of activity. She has been invited and
is expected to make an address during the
afternoon of the Relief Society Conference
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City,
early in October—the date not yet an-
nounced.


[Column 1]
