A POET SURPRISED.

	A correspondent thus tells a New York
paper how the Poet Laureate was recently
caught "in the suds" by Queen Victoria:

	"The Queen once sent him word that she
would honor him with a visit on the follow-
ing day. The announcement was received
with full royal welcome from the poet and his
household, which, be it said in all respect has,
with all the attractions, some of the disad-
vantages of poetical atmosphere. Order
does not there reign supreme in outward
things. The house was, however, put under
arms to receive the royal visitor; TENNYSON
arrayed himself in solemn dress-coat; Mrs.
TENNYSON wore an appropriate toilet; the
younger TENNYSONS were snatched from
mud-pies, washed and dressed, and kept in
bondage to the best clothes for the whole
afternoon, while a delicate repast of straw-
berries and cream and flowers was prepared
in an arbor out of doors. But the day
passed, and the next, and the next, and no
majesty appeared. The household drew a
sigh of regret—and lapsed into slippers and
mud-pies once more. But lo! one morning
as the children were at their favorite pas-
time in the garden, and the poet meditating
in his dressing-gown, and Mrs. TENNYSON
on domestic cares intent, a horseman dashed
up to the gate, and shouted ‘The Queen!’
and before TENNYSON could don his coat or
warn his wife, the royal carriage drew up
before the house. With the instinct of a
true gentleman, he went forward to greet his
sovereign, called his family to him, and led
her majesty into the house. Then there
was an awful pause. Suddenly the poet
raised his head and looking at the Queen,
exclaimed, ‘Oh, woe is me! For five days I
waited,ready in suitable attire,to receive my
Queen. My wife was ready, and my chil-
dren were washed and pictures to behold,
and her majesty came not; and now she has
come, and found us in what a plight!’ the
poet groaned. The Queen broke into a
merry laugh, and the ice thus broken so
gracefully and wittily did not form again
during the visit.”


Whittier, Bryant, Lowell, Longfellow, Bret
Harte and Bayard Taylor are the best paid poets,
and receive from $50 to $100 for almost anything
in verse that they write.


