		BY H. D. COLLINS.

	   True, godly principles evinced
		In actions good and kind,
	   But seldom fail of skill to heal,
		And to reform the mind.

	   The stranger feels the lenient hand
		Of charity and grace;
	   No longer doubt that God is love,
		When thus we learn his ways.

	"Let your light so shine before men, that
they may see your good works, and glorify your
Father which is in heaven." Mathew, 5th
chap. 16th verse.
	I believe that every kind and charitable
deed or act that is wrought by the spirit and
influence of divine grace, or through love
and respect to the word and commandments
of God, the same will be recognized and ap-
probated of God; in all cases where suffer-
ing humanity require those acts, whether
the supplicant be called saint or sinner. Al-
though, I think the latter has sometimes
been vainly substituted as a foundation for
objectionable causes, and excuses for neg-
lect, even in circumstances of special need.
But this theorem, I consider no model for
us, who profess to be the disciples and fol-
lowers of Jesus Christ, for we do not acquire
our moral virtue, or system of practice, pre-
cepts and rules through the crafty and
churlish devices of worldly and wicked in-
fluences where there is neither foundation
nor chance for Salvation. But we have a
prototype of divinely better morals, which
teaches us to love our enemies, bless those
who curse us, do good to those who hate us
and pray for those who despitefully use and
persecute us, that we may be the children
of our Father in heaven. We understand
that Christ came not to call the righteous,
but sinners to repentance, and for this end
should we not labor? "Know ye not," saith
the apostle Paul, “that if ye convert a sin-
ner from the error of his ways, ye have sav-
ed a soul from death, and covered a multi-
tude of sins?” And I believe that Gospel
charity, whether it be of words or deeds
being administered in the spirit of loving
kindness, will, with God’s help, result in
much good. And if the effect does not im-
mediately appear, the administration may,
after many days be brought to remembrance,
and be the very means which God may use
in His providence, to bring about timely
conversion and heartfelt gratitude to Him.
But let faith and works be combined in all
our contributions of charity, and special acts
of kindness, that they may be approved of
God, and attended with divine blessing.
Then we shall see the afflicted rejoice, and
when they find the salvation of God in this
way, our hearts will be made glad, and we
shall be led to rejoice in the riches of his
goodness, being made the hopeful instru-
ments of his grace in saving souls from
death, and of covering or preventing multi-
tudes of sin. If we labor for righteousness’
sake, our reward is sure. Finally let us
strive with all diligence, and pray earnestly
that our hearts become sanctified to God,
pure and holy—that all we do, whether at
home or abroad may be done in righteous-
ness, and with an eye to his glory; for by
our works we shall be judged. I believe
that in this great and last dispensation of the
fulness of times, there will be much requir-
ed of the people of God, both to do and to
endure. And without the whole armor of
godliness, I think we shall be found want-
ing. I feel for one, that I have much to do
and much to gain before I shall be able to
accomplish altogether a good purpose in this
point of view. But by the grace of God, I

[Column 2]
can say that I do not feel at all discouraged;
for the Gospel truth truly grows brighter
and brighter to me. And I am resolved to
press forward “toward the mark for the
prize of the high calling of our God in
Christ Jesus,” keeping this heavenly at-
tainment or prize in view, and closely ad-
hering to my abiding motto, “Faith, Hope
and Perseverance.” I believe there is no
opposite power that shall be able to stay our
onward progress unto victory, nor separate
us from the love of God, which is in Christ
Jesus, if we neglect not our little duties of
each day. And I would here say to my be-
loved friends and co-workers in the king-
dom and patience of Jesus Christ:—Let us
not be slothfull, neither let us be weary in
well doing; for we shall reap in due time, if
we faint not. That we who bear the name
of Christ may so fulfill our missions here, as
to gain an eternal exaltation in the Kingdom
of our God, is my ardent hope and prayer.


[Column 1]
