R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Matilda P. Killian, Secretary of the
Salem, Utah Co., R. S., reports their annual
meeting held Jan. 7th.  Bishop Joseph Tan-
ner and Brother Henry G. Boyle, from Pay-
son were present; also quite a number of
other brethren, and a full attendance of sis-
ters.  An interesting, pleasurable, and ben-
eficial meeting was held, with which every
one who participated, seemed to be well
satisfied.  The Society in Salem, though
small, is moving forward in good works;
and those connected with it, feel determined
to do their part in assisting to bring about
the great plan of redemption.  Sister Mary
C. Read is President of the Society.
	From Ogden we have received an interest-
ing account of meetings lately held by the
young folks, Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young being present by invitation.
The young ladies met in the afternoon, and
an evening meeting was appointed, to
which the young gentlemen were invited.
Before the time specified for the opening of
the evening meeting, the hall was filled to
overflowing.  After addresses had been made
by the visitors and several senior residents
of the city, twenty-eight young ladies and
nineteen young gentlemen made remarks,
thanking those who had been instructing
them, thanking and praising the Lord and
bearing testimony of his goodness, and the
truth of His Gospel.  In all, the speakers
druing the evening amounted to fifty-nine.
The Secretary, Mrs A. M. Frodsham, con-
cludes her report by saying "A great deal
of good is being accomplished through the


efforts of the sisters.  May God bless all
who are engaged in the good work."
	A report from West Weber, informs us
that on the 13th of January, Miss E. R.
Snow and Mrs. Zina D. young, met with the
Relief Society of that settlement. There
were also several visitors from Ogden pres-
ent.  The assemblage was large, the meet-
ing an interesting and a profitable one.
Mrs. Jane S. Richards was nominated, and
unanimously sustained by the members of
that Society, as President of all the Relief
Societies of Weber Co.  Mrs. Mary Douglas
is President and Mrs. Puah S. Hart Secre-
tary of the West Weber Society.
	The Washington Relief Society, reports a
meeting held on January 28th; at which
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,Lucy B. Young,
Snow, Ivins, Crosby, Townsend and others
from St. George were present.  An excel-
lent meeting was held, and the Society felt
greatly blessed and benefitted from the en-
couragement and instructions received from
the missionary Sisters.
			B. A. GOODEL, President,
			JANE FREEMAN, Secretary.
	Sister Jane S. Coleman, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Smithfield, writes us that
on the 2nd inst., a very interesting meeting
was held by the Society of that place. The
sisters felt well and spoke good things, and
the Spirit of God was manifestly present in
their midst.


[Column 1]
