	S. L. City.			EVA WALSTRUM.

	HARRISVILLE, Weber Co., Jan. 18th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As an invitation has been extended to all
who wish to correspond with the EXPONENT,
and as I feel it a great privilege which I en-
joy in connection with many others, I wish
to avail myself of it.
	In perusing your paper, I find many sub-
jects of interest, and note among others, the
all important subject of Woman Suffrage,
which at present is occupying so great a
share of attention from Eastern ladies. I
say, God bless them, and continue to inspire
them to go on in their laudable pursuits, un-
til oppression of every kind shall cease!
	I hope soon to see a more general waking
up among our own ladies, that we may no-
tice  “the signs of the times;” and instead
of reading the trashy novels of the day, be
found reading our own good EXPONENT, ob-
serving its wise hints, and learning to write
intelligently for it. Thus becoming better
qualified to fill the every day duties of life,
and also duties of a more public nature to
which we may be called. If some think
ours a dull paper, I cannot favor their judg-
ment: I think all can learn something to
their benefit from reading it. I hail it with
pleasure and rejoice in the day I live; and
I pray my Father in Heaven to bless the
Editor and all who labor to bring to light
precious truths.
	Yours in the bonds of peace,	E. S.

			GOSHEN ,Utah, Jan. 13th. 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	I desire to mingle my voice with those of
my sisters in bearing testimony to the truth.
	I have been a member of this church for
twenty-five years; am one of the number of
which the prophet said, “There shall be two

[Column 2]
in a bed, the one shall be taken and the
other left.” Could I have been taken from
a good husband for any thing else than for
the sake of the Gospel? No indeed! But
I know this to be the work of God, and I
pray that I may ever be obedient to His
voice.
	It is a day of testing. And when I see so
many people regardless of those things
which it has been prophesied should come
to pass in the last days, and which are so
rapidly being fulfilled day by day, I wonder.
Do fathers and mothers, who are neglecting
to teach their children to understand and
walk in the ways of truth, realize the worth
and importance of these things? 	When
they use harsh and unbecoming language to
their little ones, do they count the cost, or
weigh the probable effects?	O! my bro-
thers and sisters, let us be wise in time, and
not be found sleeping with no oil in our
vessels.
	We have a good Relief Society here, in
which I am a teacher. I think we should
all be teachers and learners of the ways of
the Lord, and doers of his work.
