			WOMAN.

	Woman what art thou? A mere weed
which has so cumbersome grown that it is
to be plucked and burned as stuble? Or art
thou from the animal creation of that por-
tion which has become so numerous that it
is worthless because of its number?
	The pearl says, "I am sought from my
hiding place because of my worth." Man,
for what sought ye woman? To gratify the
lower passions of thy nature, the animal
man? Or was it to add more brilliancy, and
more stars to thy crown? Thus a high and
holy nature to gratify, a nature that charac-
terizes a Damon a Pythias a God! The Bible
declares that man (mankind) the noblest
work of God was the last that was placed
on earth, and all other things were formed
first, for the especial benefit of man; also
that God pronounced man and woman one
flesh. God took much pains for man (and
for woman as she is a part of man:) to con-
sider his necessities, to bring from chaos
and organize for his comfort, He toiled six
days, as we read six thousand years. But
woman was essential, and necessary to com-
plete the great design, and He saw that He
had made an aching void in the heart of
man that could not be filled without a com-
panion, and that was woman. He also de-
creed that she should be called by man his
mother, his wife, and they, one flesh. Then
man, what are you doing when you allow
one portion of yourself to go to decay, and
with your own hand kindle a consuming
fire to destroy, or sever from you that which
God designed should be a part of yourself?
That part too in which your glory rests! O
man behold her worth! Think ye there is
no accountability to God for your steward-
ship of this refined portion of his work? Is
there no responsibility on your part, to estab-
lish your identiy as a husband? And when
you have sacredly covenanted before God to
love, and cherish, and to fulfill all duties
and obligations pertaining to the holy order
of matrimony, is there no trust to which
you are bound to be faithful? If not, then
wife thou hast none. But to thy God thou
art bound to ever love and respect, for He
has established His identity in thy organi-
zation.
	Woman with her vine like nature, reach-
ing, clinging, twining, arives at her zenith
if she has a staunch support. Although her
nature feeble and pliant, may be in a state of
apathy for a time, if it has been blunted by
a rude hand, which perhaps has carelessly,
thoughtlessly deprived it of its object.
When it again recovers sufficient strength,
it will reach for another object; for this is a

[Column 2]
law of nature, a law of God. There is a
tie of affection, a cord of love, carded by
acts of friendship, spun by patience, and
sized by the milk of human kindness. And
this woven by continued endurance, will
form a mantle of charity that will cover all
defects of the human heart and make per-
fect union.
	Woman is man's teacher; from the cra-
dle she begins to form his character; and his
future, whether good or bad, is more or less
the result of woman's training. Hence, the
necessity of woman's school. She should
gather wisdom from the fountain of all
intelligence, and her fund of knowledge
should be inexhaustable. If she realizes the
extent of her mission on earth, her moments
will be to her as so many pearls, by which to
ornament the mind. Her bounds should not
be limited to the mere menial duties of life,
she should be allowed a free pass to the store-
house of knowledge, that she may acquaint
herself with facts that will enable her to
mold and frame mechanically, the charac-
ter and consequent course of future genera-
tions. Woman should aspire to dwell on the
pinnacle for which nature has designed her,
as the mother of nations. Heaven has en-
dowed woman with powers so suited to her
calling, she watches the cradle of sleeping
innocence, and with vigilance aids the steps
of youth to manhood; and with gentle train-
ing, with affection, stamps woman, and
mother, on its every thought. She has in-
spired in man's heart a desire to take a part-
ner in life, a "fac simile" of his teacher in
childhood. And as his dreams of childhood
are fraught with such vivid recollections,
how can he fail to behold the beauty of
woman, and love her as his mother, sister
and wife?					"I'LL TRY."


