HOME AFFAIRS.

	MISS GEORGIA SNOW has been nominated by
the Governor for Territorial Librarian.

	THE POSTAGE on the EXPONENT is six cents
a quarter, or twenty-four cents a year paid in
advance.

	A PRIVATE communication from Cache Val-
ley, informs that the meetings held by the home
Missionaries, throughout the county are hav-
ing a happy tendency in stirring up the Saints
to renewed diligence in the way of Salvation.

	OUR CITY readers should not fail to notice
that Mr. Moore, the postmaster, has provided
a drop letter box, expressly for city letters. It
is placed near to where the registered letter,
and money order window was formerly, and its
contents are to be distributed every hour.

	BEING EVER ready to pick up items credita-
ble to our sex, we were pleased to hear Bishop
Thos. Callister, of Fillmore, when recently ad-
dressing the 14th Ward Sunday school, say,
that as far as his knowledge extended, every
young lady of that place attended Sunday
school, either as a teacher or scholar.

	THE RELIEF SOCIETY of the Seventh Ward
held a pleasant party in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, on last Wednesday evening. Mrs.
M. A. Needham, Mrs. M. T. Beatie, Mrs.
Jane Evans, Mrs. S. Dinwoody, Miss Josie
Evans and Mrs. Mary Woodbury were the
ladies composing the commitee. We tender
many thanks for kind remembrance, in the
form of an early invitation.


TRACK LAYING on the Utah Nothern R. R.,
between Ogden, and Brigham cities, was com-
pleted on Thursday, the 5th inst. Travelers can
now take the morning train here and, with
one change only, get to Logan by mid-day.
Which is much more pleasant than by the for-
mer route, with its two changes and arrival
near midnight, at its Nothern terminus. The
energy and public enterprise of those gentle-
men, who have labored so successfully are com-
mendable.
	AT THE monthly meeting of the Deseret
Sunday School Union, held on the evening of
the 3rd inst. considerable attention was direct-
ed to the subject of amateur theatres, in con-
nection with Sabbath School entertainments.
It was considered by a majority of the speakers
that songs, recitations, readings and all exer-
cises comprising Sabbath School entertain-
ments should be of that character only which
is best calculated to carry a good influence,
morally or religiously.
	AT THE Nominating Convention, which was
held in the Old Tabernacle, on the afternoon of
Saturday, the 31st ult., for the purpose of nomi-
nating city officers, we were pleased to note,
that a goodly number of ladies were present.
There are, however, some intelligent women
in this city, having the right of elective fran-
chise, who are too indifferent to exercise the
power they hold in this respect. But with the
opportunities now afforded for the advance-
ment of women, in this Territory, we hope to
see all such weaknesses overcome in the early
future.
	MONDAY, THE 9th inst., was an active day
among the voters of this city, it being the one ap-
pointed for the municipal election. At one time
five different tickets were in the field, but by
Monday morning only two worthy of notice--the
non-Mormon party having withdrawn their
ticket and given their full support to the Mor-
mon-opposition ticket, composed of old resi-
dents and Mormons, several names being the
same as those on "The People's Ticket." As
far as we konw, the day was not marked by
any particular difficulty or disturbance. The
number of lady voters is said to have been
greater than at any former election held here.
Notwithstanding the strong opposition "The
Peoples Ticket" carried the day by a very large
majority. The officers elected were: Mayor: D.
H. Wells. Aldermen: Isaac Groo, Geo. Cris-
mon, Jeter Clinton, John Sharp, A. C. Pyper.
Councilors: Brigham Young, Theo. McKean,
Albert Carrington, J. R. Winder, Henry Grow,
N. H. Felt, David McKenzie Feramorz Little,
Thos. Williams.


