LITTLE FOLKS.

	A little boy at Green Bay played barber-
shop with his little sister, shampooing her
head with a bottle of pepper-sauce, just as
he had seen them do down town.

	When Arthur was a very small boy his
mother reprimanded him one day for some
misdemeanor. Not knowing it his father
began to talk to him on the same subject.
Looking up in his face; Arthur said, sol-
emnly, "My mother has 'tended to me."

	If a little girl cannot take her grandfather
on her lap as he takes her on his, she can get
his slippers, or put away his book, or gently
comb his thin locks; and whether she thinks
of it or not, little kindnesses, even such as
these, that come from a loving heart, are the
sunbeams that light up the world.

	An Essex lady sitting in her parlor and
engaged in the dreamy contemplation of
the mustache of the young gentleman who
was to escort her and her sister to the con-
cert was suddenly awakened by an ominous
whisper in a juvenile voice at the door:
"You've got Ann's teeth an' she wants 'em."

	A little Irish girl about six years old, liv-
ing in Massachusetts, was lately telling some
of her schoolmates—children of Protestant
parents—what great things the priest could
do. "Why" said she, "if he wishes he could
turn a man to stone!" The other children
laughed and said, "We don't believe it."
"Well," was her reply—beautiful for its sim-
plicity—,'if I were you, I wouldn't believe
it, but I've got to."

	When the Emperor of Germany was lately
on a visit to a village in a distant portion of
his dominions, he was welcomed by the
school children of the place. After the
speaker had made a speech for them, he
thanked them. Then taking an orange from
the plate, he asked: "To what kingdom does
this belong?"
	"To the vegetable kingdom, sire," replied
a little girl.
	The Emperor took a gold coin from his
pocket, and holding it up, asked, "And to
what kingdom does this belong?"
	"To the mineral kingdom, sire," replied
the child.
	"And to what kingdom do I belong, then?"
asked the Emperor.
	The little girl colored deeply, for she did
not like to say "the animal kingdom," as he
thought she would, lest his Majesty should
be offended, when a bright thought came,
and she said with radient eyes:
	"To God's kingdom, sire."
	The Emperor was deeply moved, a tear
stood in his eye, and placing his hand on
the child's head he said most devoutly:
"God grant that I may be accounted worthy
of that kingdom!"


