FACTS AND FIGURES.

	It is estimated that 6,000 of the 8,900 jewelers
in Newark, N. J., are now idle.
	A bar of gold worth seventy thousand dollars is
a curiosity of the day in San Francisco
	There is a great revival among the Shakanese
Indians, 164 of whom have been baptized.
	There has recently been an increase in the de-
posits of the Boston banks of over $1,000,000.
	A very large number of American sewing ma-
chines have been sold in Vienna which were never
made here.
	Fifty dollars have been voted in Waterbury,
Conn., to feed the sparrows through the winter and
build them houses.
	Count Von Moltke, the leader of the German ar-
mies recently celebrated his seventy-fourth birth-
day. He is well, strong and active.
	According to Hudson's "Journalism in America"
the United States has 5871 newspapers and period-
icals, while the rest of the world has but 7642.
	The total attendance at the Vienna Exposition
foots up, according to official count, 5,340,073, of
which 1,603,573 belonged to the noble army of
dead-heads.
	The Union Pacific Railroad Company sold during
the month of October, 1873; 19,351.82 acres of
land, at an average price of $5.68 per acre, amount-
ing to $109,640.86. Sales averaged 134.39 acres to
each purchaser. Total sales to Nov. 1st, 1873; 819
100.55 acres, at an average price of $4,52 per acre,
amounting to $3,705,201.49.
	The Southern Cultivator tells of a great grape
vine as follows—“The Lord Raleigh vine, on Roan-
oke Island, N.C., was 3 inches in diameter in 1610,
when its colony landed there—the first in North
America. It now covers 1 1/2 acres, and last year
yielded 46 barrels of wine, 1,840 gallons, at $2 per
gallon, $3,680. To European or Northern visitors
this statement would be fabulous, but it can be
seen any year; and in Terrell Co., N. C., there is
one which is a great deal more productive—this
one last year produced 63 barrels, 2,520, gallons, at
$2 per gallon $5,040.


﻿THE WOMEN of Ohio have entered a cru-
sade against whiskey. May their heroic ef-
forts meet with deserved success. A late
telegram from Cincinnati anounces the fol-
lowing:—The excitement of the woman's
whiskey war is unabated. Throughout the
State, in the most prominent of interior
towns, prayer meetings are organized in bar
rooms or on the side-walks, and patrols are
kept through all kinds of weather. The la-
dies of Greenfield, Highland county, have
inaugurated evening visits to saloons, at any
hour from six to ten o'clock. The result is
to empty each saloon by the rear door as the
women enter by the front. At New Hol-
land, Pickaway county, twenty-five ladies
have volunteered for the crusade. They
visit every shop daily. At Washington,
Fayette county, where the women initiated
the movement, the liquor traffic has been
entirely stopped. Charley Beck, whose sa-
loon is outside of the corporate limits, has
been visited by ladies every day for nearly
two weeks. He is a jolly German and
treats the ladies kindly, but refuses to accede
to their propositions. The entire country is
being scoured for signatures to the total ab-
stinence pledge. At Gallipot, Gallia county,
the ladies' brigade of active workers num-
bers ninty-one. They work in three divi-
sions, but have made little headway with
saloon keepers, some of whom order them
off their premises and they enter and put
out the lights. In most counties the success
is marked.


﻿CHARLOTTE GUILLARD was the first no-
table woman printer. She was in business
for sixty years in Paris from 1506 to 1567,
and was celebrated for the correctness of
her books. Women were employed and
commended as compositors in Italy as early
as 1481.


A LADY reporter on a news journal, asked
her husband, who had just come in from the
street, to give her an item of “local inter-
est.” He laconically complied with the re-
quest, by replying that he had torn his panta-
loons. That’s all the feeling some men
have.


It would sometimes seem as if mother-
hood were a lovely artifice of the great
Father, to wean the heart from selfishness
by a peaceful and gradual process. The
babe is self in another form. It is so inter-
woven and identified with the mother’s life,
that she passes by, almost insensible grada-
tions from herself to it; and day by day the
instinctive love of self wanes as the child-
love waxes, filling the heart with a thou-
sand new springs of tenderness.—Harriet
Beecher Stowe.


