NATURAL CONDITION OF MAN.

	The natural and healthy condition of man
is one in which he works for what he re-
ceives. Those who contribute nothing to
the general stock ought to take nothing
from it. The accumulation of capital in
private hands is creating, in continually en-
larging numbers, a class of people who have
abundant means to spend on themselves,
while they have nothing to do in return. A
man makes a fortune, as it is called; he
leaves it to his children, who find themselves
to have inherited the services of an army
genii, potent as those of Aladin's lamp to
minister to their pleasures. Fools spend
their share on indulgence. Indulgence is
usually synonymous with vice; and as long
as their purses hold out they do mischief to
every one who comes near them. This kind
of thing happily does not often last long. The
money is soon gone, and there is an end of
it. But the majority have sense enough to
avoid ruining themselves by extravagance.
They live on their incomes, ladies especi-
ally, and having their time to themselves,
and being spared the necessity of exertion,
are considered exceptionally happy—yet
happy they cannot be. Satisfaction of mind
is allotted by Providence only to industry;
and not being obliged to be industrious, they
lose the capacity for it. Enjoyments pall on 
them. Having allowed the period of life
to pass unused when occupations can be
successfully learned, they are unable to take
their places afterwards on the beaten roads
of life. They stray into fancy employments;
they become dabblers in politics, dabblers in
art, dabblers in literature and science. Noth-
ing succeeds with them sufficiently to put
them on good terms with themselves, and
then men and women alike, and particularly
the better sort of them, being without
wholesome occupations, craving for some-
thing which will satisfy the demands which
their minds are making on them, they fly
to the opiates and anodynes of the quack
doctors of the spiritual world.—"James An-
thony Froude."


BRITISH ELECTIONS have been attended
with riots and mob disturbances this season,
more even than generally in former years.
Much diversity of opinion prevails, accord-
ing to late news from London. The British-
ers seem to have forgotton that "union is
power."


A New Rake.—Josh Billings thus speaks
of a new agricultural implement, to which
the attention of farmers is invited: "John
Rogers' revolving, expanding, unceremo-
nious, self-adjusting, self-controlling, self-
greasing, self-righteous hoss-rake, is now
forever offered to the generous public. The
rakes are as easy to keep in repair as a hitch-
ing post, and will rake up a paper of pins
sowed in a ten-acre field of wheat stubble.
These rakes can be used in winter for a hen-
roost, or sawed up into stove-wood for the
kitchen fire. No farmer of good moral char-
acter should be without this rake, if even
he has to steal one.


