EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A RELIGIOUS man in Oregon refused to
join the Grangers because "they had let
women in." It is a great pity such men
have not a world to themselves.
	THE CORCORAN Art Gallery is built of
brick and brown stone and is said to be one
of the handsomest buildings in Washington,
D. C. It was opened to the public, as a fine
art exhibition on the 19th ult.
	DR. DIO Lewis thinks a baby should not
sleep with its parents because it must, when
placed thus, be constantly enhaling the im-
pure breath and poisonous emanations from
the bodies of the adults. The objection ap-
pears to be a reasonable one.
	DENMAN, THE School Superintendent of
San Francisco, has suspended nineteen
teachers, for repeated tardiness in entering
upon morning duties. This does not speak
so well for the enterprising spirit in the
cause of education in that city.
RACHEL, THE French actress, is said to
have received a salary of only $7,200 a year,
in her best time. If that [---] [--] [---] sal-
ary for "playing," what estimate should be
placed upon the labors of those who work
hard, many of whom receive less than half
that amount?
	ONE OF the sadest stories of recent date,
is told by a young woman who was saved
from the "Ville de Havre." She gives
her name as Miss Edgar. Being an expert
swimmer, she was able for a long time to
support herself and her mother in the wa-
ter. But at last becoming numbed and ex-
hausted, she could no longer cling to that
one—her best and dearest of all earthly
friends—and unable to assist her farther,
saw her slowly sink away and settle under
the water, scarcely a moment before the
boat appeared, by which she was rescued.
	TRAGEDIES ARE now transacted as fre-
quently, or nearly so, at the home hearth,
in some parts of the country, as upon the
stage of the theatre. Within three days,
but recently, we have found cases recorded
of as many wife murders, in news jour-
nals from different localities. In giving a
moment's reflection to these terrible state-
ments, we are led to wonder why Utah and
her domestic institutions, in which rarely
if ever any thing of a like nature may be
chronicled as local, should be derided or con-
demned by any other portion of the world—
more particularly by any woman.
	A LADY writer has stated that twelve
years ago she came west with the prospect
of speedy death, according to one of New
England’s best physicians. But she now re-
joices in perfect health restored. And this
happy result she attributes to the interesting
occupation of "bee tending," which has
kept her much of the time in the open air.
She recommends this healthy vocation to
women, especially those delicately inclined.
Whether the "bee tending" is beneficial as
a health restoritive or not—and we doubt
not it would so prove in many instances—
open air exercise is what thousands of peo-
ple suffer for, when believing themselves
in need of other, less simple remedies.
[Column 2]
	WE FIND the following in the "Washing-
ton Capital" of a late date. "A good, or
rather a bad story has leaked out and is in
active circulation regarding a famous sena-
tor, whose name has figured extensively in
these columns, as it has throughout the
country. It seems that a very respectable
lady, once a belle and yet quite handsome,
finding herself beggared by the present fi-
nancial crisis, sought employment from the
Government. She brought a letter of in-
troduction to our able-bodied senator and
had an appointment made with him, at his
request, in a committee-room of the Senate.
They met alone, and the solon soon shifted
himself from the chair to the sofa upon
which the lady sat; and then, as he grew
interested in her, put his senatorial arm
about her slender waist and attempted to
bring the orifice of his intellectual edifice,
called, through courtesy, a head, to bear on
her mouth. The poor woman, struggling
from his brutal assault, started up and asked
the man what he meant by such an insult.
"Insult! insult Madam!" responded the
solon. "I meant no insult; this is the neces-
sary preliminary to [--] [--] service exami-
nation." We need not say that this neces-
sary preliminary ended there and then, and
the poor, distressed woman was seen to steal
from the Capitol building crying over the in-
dignity and degredation offered her." We
have no authority upon which to mention
the name of the honorable (?) "solon," of
whom this story is related; but we doubt
not that he is a near relative, in spirit at
least, to those generous, pitying souls who
are so anxious to have Congress do something
for the emancipation of the “poor, ignorant,
illused women of Utah.”
	HENRY B. Blackwell, of the “Woman’s
Journal,” has a good deal to say, and says it
in rather forcible language, concerning the
measures taken by certain members in Con-
gress with the view of disfranchising the
women of Utah. We clip the following:
The repeal of Woman Suffrage was not even
alluded to during a long debate in the Sen-
ate upon a bill which disfranchises the
women of Utah and which makes any fu-
ture attempt by a woman to vote, a misde-
meanor punishable with fine and imprison-
ment, and prohibits the men of the Terri-
tory from ever again extending Suffrage to
women. This is, indeed, a conclusive evi-
dence of the necessity of Woman Suffrage!
Think of it! Senator Wilson was present,
who had himself introduced a Bill to give
women Suffrage in the Territories. Half-a-
dozen other Senators, known to be in favor
of Woman Suffrage, were present. And yet
these men all sat silent and several of them
voted for this bill which takes away suffrage
from the women of Utah. Henceforth let
women trust no man to represent their po-
litical interests who is not elected in part by
the votes of women. It is a crowning evi-
dence of the truth of the maxim that "no 
one class can safely be trusted to represent
another." * * * The population of Utah
is divided into two hostile classes, Mormons
and Gentiles. The Mormon voters, even
without the women, largely exceed the
Gentiles in number. But this preponder-
ance is increased by the votes of the women
because almost all the women of Utah hap-
[Column 3]
pen to be Mormons. Indeed, almost all the
resident population, the farms, the homes of
Utah, are composed of Mormons. They are
a peaceable, industrious people, devoted to
their peculiar observances, with a theology
which not only permits but inculcates poly-
gamy as an article of faith, and are charac-
terized by the exclusiveness of social feel-
ing, which sectarianism develops and perse-
cution intensifies. The Gentiles, on the con-
trary, are chiefly composed of miners;
rough, reckless frontiersmen, without fixed
homes, without wives or female relatives.
This floating population is naturally jealous
of Mormon supremacy and impatient of re-
straints, whether salutary or otherwise.
When a Gentile sees a Mormon and the wo-
men of his family cast several votes, he does
not stop to consider that he might neutral-
ize these votes by making a home and in-
viting his female relatives to leave the East
and settle with him in Utah. Nor does he
ask himself whether these women have not
quite as much right to vote as himself, upon
questions which equally concern all [-] [--]
[---] [--] [--] [---] numerical dis-
advantage and appeals to the authorities in
Washington to strike down the women.
And such men as Senator Frelinghuysen are
prompt to do his cowardly bidding. * * *
The utter indifference of Congress to the
rights of the women of Utah is in singular
contrast to its almost morbid sensitiveness in
regard to the rights of colored men. Sup-
pose that the Senate Judiciary Committee,
in view of the very "peculiar condition" of 
South Carolina, had quietly reported a bill,
the effect of which would be to deprive
colored men of suffrage? Would a long de-
bate have taken place without a single allu-
sion to the proposed "limitation of suffrage"
to white men? On the contrary, Mr. Sum-
ner would have exhausted the resources of
eloquent invective, and every Republican
Senator would have denounced the proposi-
tion as a conspiracy against liberty. Let us
hope that the day will come when the rights
of women will find as many and as earnest
defenders in the Congress of the United
States as the rights of colored men find now.
But that day will never dawn until the
women of America are armed with the bal-
lot.


