NEWS AND VIEWS.

	If any lady expects to make a fortune by
adopting the name of "Young," and "telling
what she knows about Mormonism," in St.
Louis, she had better calculate on doing it in
one night. The people there don't turn out
well to see such a show the second time.
	The present session of the Territorial Legisla-
ture will close in about six days. Judging from
the way in which work was apparently being
pushed through, in both houses, when we vis-
ited them, we should say, the gentlemen com-
posing the legislative bodies will have the sat-
isfaction of feeling that they have done their
part to accomplish much good for their constit-
uents.
	On the 2nd instant, Mr. Mellish, on leave in-
troduced in the House of Representatives at
Washington, the following bill; which was read
twice, ordered printed and referred to the Com-
mittee on Territories: "A Bill to relieve the
women citizens of the Territories from politi-
cal disabilities."
	"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Amer-
ica in Congress assembled, That from and after
the passage of this act no female citizen of the
United States, residing in any of the Territo-
ries thereof, shall be debarred from exercising
the right of suffrage at any election held in
such Territory, anything in the laws of the
United States or in the laws of said Territory
to the contrary notwithstanding."
	There is good sound sense contained in this
little bill, and we trust Congress may see it.


On the 10th and 11th instants, news came
from Xenia and Cincinnati, Ohio, concerning
the Woman's War on Whisky, of a very encour-
aging nature. May their work continue until
the desired end is accomplished. A portion of
a telegram in relation to it, informs us that
in Washington, Ohio, a man named Passmore
opened a new saloon last week and immediate-
ly the whole moral and religious power of
the town turned upon him. Ladies prayed be-
fore the door all day and till half-past ten at
night. During a snow storm an immense pro-
cession marched to Beck's, who had enjoined
the women from using a tabernacle in front of
his place. Those enjoined remained in church
to pray. Beck on seeing the procession, said he
too would stop; only one remains, and he asks for
another day to consider. At Blanchester all of
the saloons are closed. At Logan the ladies
likewise celebrate a complete victory. At Lan-
caster and other places the work is beginning.
At Pomeroy a society has been organized on
the principle that there is enough moral and
religious power in the city to exterminate the
business of trafficking in intoxicating drink,
and will resort to law only when other means
fail.


