HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Mothers, Speak Kindly.—Children catch cross
tones quicker than parrots, and they often become
permanent habits in them. When mother sets the
example, you will scarcely hear a pleasant word
among the children in their plays with each other.
Yet the discipline of such a family is always weak
and irregular. The children expect just so much
scolding before they do anything they are bid, while
in many a home where the low, firm tone of moth-
er, or the decided look of her steady eye, is law, they
always think of obedience, either in or out of sight.
Oh, mother! it is worth a great deal to cultivate
that excellent thing in woman, a low, sweet voice.
If you are ever so much tried by the mischievous
or wilful pranks of the little one, speak low. It
will be a great help to you to even try to be patient
and cheerful, if you cannot succeed. Anger makes
you wretched, and your children also. Impatient,
angry tones never did the heart good, but plenty of
evil. You cannot have the excuse for them that
they lighten your burdens at all; they make them
only ten times heavier. For your own, as well as
your children’s sake, speak low. They will remem-
ler that tone when your head is under the turf.
So, to, will they remember a harsh and angry tone,
Which legacy will you leave to your children?
	Cream Pie.—Cover the pie-tin with a good crust,
but not too rich; then fill with sweet cream; sprinkle
generously with flour and sugar; cover with crust;
bake quick, and you have a pie fit for a king. To
be eaten when cold. 
	A Useful Soap.—The following is commended
by those who have tried it for scrubbing and cleans-
ing painted floors, washing dishes, and other house-
hold purposes:. Take two pounds of white olive
soap and shave it in thin slices; add two ouuces of
borax and two quarts of cold water; stir all together
in a stone or earthen jar, and let it set upon the
back of the stove until the mass is dissolved. A
very little heat is required, as the liquid need not
simmer.  When thoroughly mixed and cooled, it
becomes of the consistence of a thick jelly, and a
piece the size of a cubic inch will make a lather for
a gallon of  water.
	Borax for Cleansing Blankets:—The Boston
Journal of' Chemistry gives the following method
of cleansing blankets: Put two large teaspoonfuls
 of borax and a pint bowl of soft soap into a tub of
cold water.  When dissolved, put in a pair of blan-
kets, and let them remain over night. Next day
 rub and drain them out, and rinse thoroughly in two
waters, and hang them to dry. Do not wring them.
But this is not the only domestic use to which borax
may be put. Says the same journal: Borax is the
best cockroach exterminator yet discovered. This
troublesome insect has a peculiar aversion to it, and
will never return where it has once been scattered.
As the salt is perfectly harmless to human beings,
it is much to be preferred for this purpose to the
poisonous substances commonly used. Borax is
valuable for the laundry; use 1 lb. to about ten gal-
lons of boiling water, and you need only one-half
the ordinary allowance of soap. For laces, cam-
bries, etc., use an extra quantity of this powder. It
will not injure the texture of the cloth in the least.
For cleansing the hair, nothing is better than a so-
lution of borax water. Wash afterwards with pure
water if it leaves the hair too stiff. Borax dissol-
[Column 2]
ved in water is also an excellent dentifrice, or tooth
wash.
Oat meal for bone and muscle:—Liebig
has shown that oat meal is almost as nutri-
tious as the very best English beef,and that
it is richer than wheaten bread in the ele-
ments that go to form hone and muscle.
Professor Forbes of Edinburg, during some
twenty years, measured the bredth and
hight, and also tested the strength of both
the arms and loins of the students in the
University—a very numerous class, and of
various nationalities, drawn to Edinburg by
the fame of his teaching. He found that,
in height, breadth of chest and shoulders,
and strength of arms and loins, the Belgians
were, at the bottom of the list a little above
them the French very much higher the
English and highest of all, the Scotch and
Scotch-Irish, from Ulster, who, like the na-
tives of Scotland, are fed in their early years
with at least one meal a day of good milk
and good oatmeal porridge. Speaking of
oatmeal, an exchange remarks that a very
good drink is made by putting about two
spoonfuls of the meal in a tumbler of water.
The Western hunters and trappers consider
it the best of drinks, as it is at once nour-
ishing, unstimulating, and satisfying. It is
popular in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, two
and a half pounds of oatmeal being put into
a pail of moderately cool water. It is much
better than any of the ordinary mixtures of
vinegar and. molasses with water which far-
mers use in the haying or harvest field.


For the EXPONENT.
