EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT;
	Will you give an "out sider" space in
your columns to make a few remarks?
	Two years ago I came to Utah, sharing
the general prejudice of Gentiles against
an institution they know nothing of. I be-
lieved them—the Mormons—to be ALL that
the most uncharitable had said. I expected
to find them ENEMIES in every sense of the
word to "Gentiles. I found them FRIENDS,
Brothers and Sisters. Kind, hospitable,
charitable and forgiving.
	For two years I have lived in their midst;
their private life is no sealed book to me,
and their extreme forbearance, and patience
under the wrongs inflicted upon them are,
indeed creditable to them.
	Mormon men and women alike, seem to
lean confidingly upon that strong arm that
never faileth, and in all their trials, look
above for wisdom and guidance. As a peo-
ple I consider the Mormons CHRISTIANS in
every sense of the word. A religion which
enables people to go through such over-
whelming troubles, with such serene hope-
fulness, cannot be IMMORAL.
	The Mormon religion calls forth all the
best, holiest, purest impulses of the human
heart. A wholly corrupt, bad person CAN-
NOT BE a MORMON in the true acceptance of
the word.
	Particularly have I interested myself in
the DOMESTIC life of these people of Zion.
	That there are wrongs, and cruel ones, ex-
isting now in Utah, I do not deny; but not
the wrongs—claimed by Mrs. Ann Eliza
Young to be laid upon them by the CHURCH.
The Gentiles (my own people, grieved as I am
to say it) are the wrong doers. They have
commenced a system of persecution against
these people in THEIR OWN LAND, that may
end in sorrow to all.
	I have read Mrs. Ann Eliza Young’s Lec-
ture delivered in Denver, Colorado. I re-
member of once reading—“A LIE that is
PART a lie is a hard matter to fight.” If
this be so, Ann Eliza has not even availed
herself of this weak subterfuge. FALSE is

[Column 2]
stamped upon her lecture from Alpha to
Omega.
	For instance: imagine any enlightened
people giving credence to such a statement
as this:—“In the Presidents household, they
have what is called “ration day,” once a
month; each family receives—five (5) lbs.
sugar, 1 lb candles, a BAR (not box) of soap,
and one (1) box matches.” This paragraph
requires no comments to those who have
seen and know President Young and his
family. It speaks for itself. And if, as she
says,—“The poor and helpless in Utah are
the abject slaves of the rich and powerful,”
from my experience I believe their “sla-
very” to be sweet, and their “ignorance”
bliss indeed.
	I do not wish nor intend to comment upon
Mrs. Ann Eliza’s Lecture; as I said before,
to intelligent thinking minds it speaks for
itself. She may be a very estimable lady,
but nature, in her formation, evidently for-
got two most important ingredients—Truth
and Gratitude.
	I have many dear friends among the Mor-
mons. And I believe these people are sus-
tained by powers not of earth, and that they
will come forth from under this dark cloud
of persecution, purer, firmer in their FAITH
(if this be possible,) and stronger than ever.
I may not believe in all points of their relig-
ion, nevertheless, it is no reason why I can-
not see the good in it. THEY do not believe
in MINE, yet they have never persecuted
me because I saw fit to worship God one
way, they another. And because I may not
consider President Young to be an inspired
Prophet of God, does this prohibit me from
thinking him a most excellent gentleman, a
kind husband and father, a man of principle
and sterling integrity, a man well calculated
to lead a people of sense and righteousness
to God? It does not. And I believe in the
Celestial Kingdom a bright crown of glory
awaits him; and I, a GENTILE WOMAN, hope
to meet him there, after all the turmoil and
persecutions of this life are over, where, I
believe, Mormon, Jew and Gentile will be
rewarded according to the works done here
in the flesh.
	Dear Editor, will you kindly pardon this
intrusion upon your valuable time? I felt
I must write you, if only a few words, to
convey my thoughts and feelings towards
my Mormon friends.
	Your prosperity will always cause me ex-
treme pleasure. Any adversity that may
fall upon your people, the deepest sorrow.
And believe me ever your TRUE friend,
though a				"GENTILE."


