WOMAN'S POWER.
	Junius Henri Browne writes in the November
Galaxy:	Where is the man with parts and princi-
ples that has not been managed by a woman? What
hero of the past (the present is slow to recognize
its heroes) has not had its heroine, even though she
be not so recorded?
	Pericles was managed by Aspasia in everything
that added to the greatness and glory of Greece.
He was proud to admit his indebtedness to her.
She helped him to his pedestal, and drawing her
after him, he crowned her with laurels, and, pro-
claimed her a goddess fit for the Parthenon. He
had no fear to be thought inspired or guided by her,
for he was the lofty leader of lofty men, standing
so high that he uttered the wisdom of Olympus.
	Hyperides, the rival of Demosthenes,  was so
managed by Thyrne as to render his effort in her
behalf the crown of his eloquence. The beauty of
the woman flashed into his thought; the symmetry
of her form swept through his sentences, and she
stood acquitted by the power of her reflected loveli-
ness. Caesar and Antony knew from the first what
a siren Cleopatra was. The great Julius saw her
consummate management when she rose, like a rare
aromatic flower, from the bale the swarthy Sicilian
had brought. He felt the presence of the splendid
apparition kindling a new destiny in his veins, and
he advanced to meet it with open arms. Unfortu-
nate as her influence was in many respects, she
must have answered in some way to his noblest
nature. No woman, not even Egypt's enchanting
queen, could have retained him for years unless she
had awakened that which was best in him and most
promising for the future.
	Antony, magnificient rowdy that he was, detected
the management of Ptolemy’s daughter while she
rode up the Cydnus with silver oars to obey his
summons, as the goddess of youth and love. To
live in luxurious effeminacy with her he sank the
Spartan element that was in him and drew the Syb-
arite to the surface. How supreme must have been
the tact that could rivet to her side the sturdy sol-
dier and enthrall him with voluptuousness, while
he saw his Roman veterans disowning their allegi-
ance in favor of Octavius, and the empire he had
gained by mighty prowess and hardship crumbling
under his dazzled eyes.


