THE BALLOT AND THE BULLET.

	A lady conversing with a gentleman upon
the right of woman suffrage, was told by
him that the ballot and the bullet went to-
gether—“will you fight as well as vote?”
"Yes," Was the ready reply, “by hiring a
substitute as you did during the late war.”
Women are for peace, not war: and this is
one of the many reasons why they should
have the right of franchise. Yes, a true
woman is for peace when it can be secured
upon honorable terms; at the same time she
will fight or encourage and sustain those
whose business it is to fight, when it is nec-
essary.—That is when her rights and those
of her friends are invaded, as has been prov-
en in the history of the past; as in the
case of Joan of Arc; also Artimesia the
Queen who joined the immense invading
army of Xerxes. She was in command at
the great battle of Hellespont, on which
occasion the king, seated on a high eminence,
where he could look down upon the engage-
ment said, “See—see Artemesia the Queen!
She acts like a man, while our men act like
women!” But for all this, we are opposed
to woman's going to war when the greatest
battle is fought at home. Ask the man who
goes to the battle field, which he would con-
sider the greatest task, to face the enemy
and be shot down in defence of his country,
or to take the place of the true wife and
mother, who not only lives to mourn the
loss of friends and country, but her husband
also, and her sons. There are thousands of
women who have thus been called to mourn,
who are now asking the right of franchise.
But if such bills as the Frelinghuysen are
to be made law; to disfranchise the noble
women of our land who fill the chair of
state and the halls of Congress with their
sons, and the ranks of the battle field with
the offsprings of their own bodies, the lover
of freedom can but exclaim, mockery! No
longer call this a Republican form of Govern-
ment. Take down the standard of liberty


and cease to mock the Goddess by desecra-
ting her inalienable rights. Fold up the flag
of our beloved country that so proudly waves
over sea and land, and lay it in some sacred
sepulchre; until the mother of Washington,
Jefferson, and the mothers of the framers
of the Constitution of the United States,
shall come forth and demand of their sons
their inalienable rights, the elective Fran-
chise. 				WILLMEITH EAST.
