SPLINTERS.
	Judge Guigon of Richmond, Va., has re-
fused to grant a petition of the colored citi-
zens of that place, asking that colored men
be put on Juries when colored criminals are
to be tried.....There are 32,000 citizens
in New York State, under sentence for 
felonies...Henry M. Stanley, who led a small
body of men through Central Africa, two
years ago, in search of Dr. Livingstone the
great African traveler, has recently comple-
ted a book for big boys which treats of the
life and ways of the people of Central Af-
rica......Carlotta Bettini, the Italian revo-
lutionist, recently died at the age of sixty-
one......The ladies of Edinburgh are said to
contemplate presenting in their name, a
suitable gift to the Princess Marie of Rus-
sia, on the occasion of her marriage with
the Duke of Edinburgh.......White coal has
been discovered and is coming into very
general use on the Australian continent......
Colored people are excluded from the grange
movement in Maryland and Virginia......
Corporal punishment has been abolished in
the high schools in Boston......China proper
is said to be the most densely peopled re-
gion of the world, and to contain at present,
one-third of the human race......Miss Stet-
son of Normal, Ill. has been sent as a medi-
cal missionary to India......Mrs. Patterson of
Greenville, Tenn., a daughter of ex-Presi-
dent Johnson, has the reputation of being
the best butter maker in that place.....There
is but one woman editor in Mississippi......
The life of Agassiz, written by his wife, will
soon be ready for publication......A son of
Charles Dickens has recently been called to
the bar......The two rival British statesmen,
Gladstone and Disraeli, are of nearly the
same age, the former being 64, the latter 68
.....Dr. Stephen Smith, the Health Com-
missioner of New York, says that intemper-
ance is alarmingly on the increase among
women in high as well as low life......An
equestrian statue of Joan of Arc, life size
and in bronze, has been ordered of M. Fre-
mier, by the French Government......The
Protestant pastor of Madrid, Don Antonio
Carrasco, was lost in the Ville de Havre......
Mr. John Stuart Mills' Autobiography is
exciting great attention in England......The
"Washington Capital" calls Grace Green-
wood "One of the most admirable corres-
pondents known to our newspaper world."
.....St. Louis has given Nilsson an enthusi-
astic reception.....A widow in Maine burn-
ed her home because the law said she must
give it to the brothers of her deceased hus-
band according to his will.......Mrs. Webster,
a skilled physician, has been appointed pro-
fessor of Hygiene and Physician at Vassar
College......Lady Burdett Coutts leads the
crusade against cruelty to animals in Eng-
land......A lady of Elsworth, Maine, is can-
vassing that city, obtaining signatures to a
petition to the Legislature to have the po-
litical disabilities of woman removed.


