[Vol39 | August 1952 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Board | Title: Relief Society Bulletin Cover and Masthead]
Vol. 39 AUGUST 1952 No. 8
Dry Season Lael W. Hill Now we concern ourselves with the shape of a cloud— With direction and swirl and gusty-sudden wind; The plain grows listless under the sun's hot flood— Its weight of summer lies heavy on the land. Who would have thought we could weary of skies so clear Or look to the rise of dawn with a clutching dread Hard at the heel of our thought? But the sun's desire Shimmers over us, and its portent is not good. Now we concern ourselves with the shape of a prayer For billows of dark above us, cool and kind, Released into silver channels across earth's floor— And the grateful calm of souls after it has rained. The Cover: Lake Almanor and Mount Lassen, California Photograph by Don Knight Frontispiece Saguaros Along San Carlos Lake, Arizona Photograph by Josef Muench From Near and Sar Gnvitation to Relief Society Women, women, God is calling, Calling you from home today. Leave your work and bring your children— You can study while they play. Learn the truths about the gospel, Literature, and science, too. Come all women here among us, God will love you, if you do. Come and join our Singing Mothers, Sing the strains of life and love. We are led by noble women, Of their time they freely give. Come and sing about the gospel, Join with us in songs of praise. Then your burdens will be lighter, Life will bring more happy days. —tLera Clark Maughan Bountiful, Utah "The Hee-Haw Pony" story by Florence B. Dunford (third prize story, March 1950) is still a special favorite of the children of my family. They ask for it again and again. They remember the pony and the children, especially the little gitl who stuttered. Needless to say, I like that story, too. —Clark N. Stohl Salt Lake City, Utah How lovely Iris Schow's mother must be! I'm grateful that she gave us a glimpse of her through her poem "Our Young Mother' (May 1952). And Sylvia Probst Young, in her simple, beautiful way, makes us recognize the Miss Tracys in our communities and appreciate and love them a little more ("A Tribute to Miss Tracy," May 1952). —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I very much enjoy the serial '"Uncertain Possession," by Beatrice R. Parsons (beginning in January 1952). In fact I enjoy all the Magazine. It is a tribute to your fine editorship. —Sylvia_ Probst Young Midvale, Utah As a family we would feel that we had lost something or someone if the Magazine did not arrive each month. Our seventeen-year-old daughter thinks it is the best publication printed and looks eagerly forward to its arrival. This, of course, is just sharing our own feelings in the matter. —Mrs. Ivy Gregson New Westminster, B. C., Canada I have always shared my mother's Magazine (Mrs. Alice M. Lambert, Roosevelt, Utah), but sh

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - = - = - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - _ - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering a ~ - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams. Christine H. Robinson Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Nea Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Bering Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance Helen W. Anderson; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - ~ - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford 
Vol. 39 AUGUST 1952 No. 8