[Literature: Coleridge the Poet by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Lesson 26—Coleridge the Poet (1772-1834) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 163-190) For Tuesday, November 18, 1952
Objective: To study Coleridge's poems as illustrations of his poetic theory, that we might more fully understand, and thus enjoy, his works. Productive Period of Coleridge's Life HROUGHOUT Coleridge's entire life he suffered greatly from theumatism and neuralgia. It is possible that he began the use of opium to alleviate his pain. In his youth he found release for his fierce intellectual energy in reading widely.' In later years Coleridge recalled that even at the age of three he read a chapter from the Bible. Throughout his years of formal education he was always regarded as a precocious youth, but because he habitually read what interested him rather than what he should read for his classes, he finally left Cambridge in 1794 without a degree. From his earliest years Coleridge wrote a great deal of promising poetry. During college he wrote a play, which was later revised and produced successfully. During the next three years after college he was so preoccupied with revolutionary social, political, and economic reforms, Unitarianism, marriage,. And journalism, that he wrote little poetry, and it was governed by conventional form and tone. 'Then, in 1797, he met Wordsworth, who later referred to Coleridge as "the most wonderful man I have ever known." Each personality stimulated and complemented the other into one of the most significant petiods of co-operative literary activity in English literary history. In this union of talent and genius Wordsworth found — stimulation which was lifelong; for Coleridge it lasted only half a year—"that glorious half-year" from November 1797 to May 1798—yet in this brief petiod his greatest works were written: "The Ancient Mariner," "Christabel," part one, and "Kubla Khan." Also during this period the two poets talked into reality the theory and plan of their Lyrical Ballads, which, with Wordsworth's prefatory statement added in 1800, became one of the most revolutionary and important writings in English criticism. In 1798
Coleridge wrote "France: an Ode," and four years later, in 1802, his "Dejection: an Ode" lamented the departure of his poetic powers. Henceforth, as earlier, poetry was not his primary concern, but philosophy and religion, and one or the other of the following occupations: farmer, tutor, preacher, reporter, political writer, reviewer, editor, translator, lecturer, dramatist, and philosopher. That any man can achieve poetic immortality with such a tiny handful of poems forces us to conclude  558
From an Old Print RYDAL WATER IN ENGLAND'S BEAUTIFUL LAKELAND This lake, and others near it, formed the scenic surroundings for much of the best work of Wordsworth and Coleridge. 
Nab Cottage, home of the poet's son, Hartley Coleridge, may be seen in the background across the lake.
That they must excel in whatever virtues they possess. And it is so. Concerning Coleridge's poetic powers Leigh Hunt wrote: Of pure poetry strictly so called, that is to say, consisting of nothing but its essential self, without conventional and perishing helps, he was the greatest master of his time. If you would see it in a phial, like a distillation of roses, it would: be found without a speck.. If from poetry we remove all "conventional and perishing helps," such as whatever vogue in imagery, diction, rhyme, rhythm, and stanza form might be popular, what have we left to define as poetry? In our last lesson we learned that Coletidge defined "imagination as the soul of poetry."
Because this quality is supreme in his own poems, just as his criticism said it should be, we see not only the beautiful harmony between his own theory and practice, but also Leigh Hunt's justification for praising the purity of poetic content which Coleridge's poems contain. "The Ancient Mariner" In order to study Coleridge at his best, we must turn to "The Ancient Mariner," a poem whose universal appeal has never dimmed and which is generally acclaimed as the best literary ballad in English. For generations it has been read by every schoolboy, which tempts one to say that any poem which can be understood and enjoyed by the average person automatically for- LESSON DEPARTMENT feits all claim to being great literature.
Actually it is characterized throughout by the simplicity of greatness: it is so inevitably direct and clear and unified that not until one attempts to duplicate its qualities elsewhere does Coleridge's full achievement begin to be realized. If we agree to allow "The Ancient Mariner" (and "Christabel' ) to represent Coleridge at his best, we might also feel it profitable to discuss its merits in terms of some eight critical values which Coleridge presented in his definition of poetry (Biographia Literaria, ch. XIV, the basis of our last lesson).
Ideally the greatest profit from such an approach is the realization that no great work of art can arise from a basis of inferior critical standards, and that while the artistic creation may fall far short of fulfilling ideally the author's critical principles, on the other hand, the artistic creation can never rise above the goals the artist is attempting to attain. Critical Values of Poetry Applied to "The Ancient Mariner" 1. "The living truth of the whole." 'The narrative tone, simple ballad verse form, common but brilliantly sharp words, and boneclean organization; the mass of authentic detail, both of the physical reality and revelations of inner psychological suffering and terror—all are unified by the warming imagination into a living oneness.
Proof of the flawless unity is found in the spell of the supernatural which the reader, almost as if he were the wedding guest, feels so strongly from the first to last.
There is no desire to skip, no fleeting concern with any reality save that of the power 559 arising from the page before him.
Words are scarcely acknowledged as such, so rich is the experience, so real is the need to live the story. 2.
Reality of senses re-created imaginatively.
Sight is the supreme sense: that which we see vividly we remember; that which we remember we continue to see with the inner eye. We cannot escape from Coleridge's magic because so skill- - fully, so intuitively, does he present before us the central yet common detail.
Following the suggestion of his words, we realize within us the detail which at once suggests the whole.
Limiting our search to the first section, let us discover the sensory words with which he gains and holds our attention, one of the most difficult feats for the storyteller.
Only three phrases are needed to make the mariner completely real before us: "long gray beard, "glittering eye," and "skinny hand."
Only two are necessary to depict the ship amid the fierce storm: "sloping masts," and "dipping prow." To transport us deftly to the Antarctic, Coleridge needs three images: one for the eye, "ice, masthigh, came floating by, as green as emerald"; two for the ear: the ice It cracked and growled, and roared and howled, Like noises in a swound The ice did split with a thunder-fit Note the vigor of the verbs in the first line and the eerie, unfamiliar flavor of swound, which first shocks by presenting some tertrible unknown, then somehow magically suggests the combined flavor of swoon and wound, both of 560 which add greatly to the fulfillment of the poet's intent. 3. [he power of imaginative reality as superior to heterogeneous actuality. 'This point is demonstrated in No. 2 above: selection and condensing are the secrets of good writing. It should also be pointed out that never a wasted stroke is made as he transports us from the wedding to the Antarctic, to the Pacific, to harbor home.
Compare such narrative power with the hodgepodge of detail which constitutes an actual day, or which now within your mind is all you have of some trip you have made. 4. Re-creation of psychological and supernatural realities through the senses.
Because these end-values arise more strongly from an.
Entire scene, from the accumulative power of many scenes, and finally from the poem as a whole, it is difficult to limit their origin to isolated images. However, at least the general direction of Coleridge's intent can be indicated by pointing to lines which appeal to more than the senses. For example, | He holds him with his glittering eye and the guest _ listens like a three years' child.
Within himself each reader some- | how knows why a glittering eye blinds, yet it is a knowing which is so common a knowledge that it is most difficult to state it in words. We expect Coleridge to marshal all available forces to intensify his effect.
Just as this first scene is made more immediate by being written whenever possible in first person,  present tense (I am), so he gradually begins to personalize the forces of nature, that they might convey mystery, awe, and the great inner conflict between good and evil which tortures the Ancient Mariner and all the world. The sun is neither good nor bad as Out of the sea came he but the sun is he, not it, and the mystery of the sunrise inspired all primitive peoples; even today's rational man tends to stand in awe before it. The forces of evil begin to emerge symbolized as the Stormblast,, "tyrannous and strong.
Struck with his o'ertaking wings... And forward bends his head" as he pursues with yell and blow his foe, the ship. It is to be expected that this evil force takes man to a place of evil. One of the eternal terrors is that of whiteness, the absence of all color, all life. Surrounded, then, by the ice making "noises like a swound," and the "dismal sheen" of the snowy cliffs and fog, the ship is desperately in need of any sign of rescue and hope. It is at this moment that the Albatross comes, As if it had beer a Christian soul, We hailed it in God's name. In this drear nothingness anything graceful and alive must represent forces of good. 'These men, terrified by a seemingly malignant nature, not only accept the bird as good, but as a symbol of Christ and a benevolent God. It is only after the bird arrives that the enclosing ice thunders apart and liberates the ship, as if enraged that the forces of good have come to champion the LESSON DEPARTMENT helmsman who now can steer an escape. | For the moment the forces of good are triumphant; it is then that "a good south wind" carries the ship to safety and peace, while the happy crew calls the Albatross to food and frolic. But almost at once the forces of evil again begin to descend; soon the ship is once more surrounded by the awfulness of white: Whiles all the night, through fog-smoke white, Glimmered the white moon-shine. It is in the stanza following that the Ancient Mariner confesses shooting the Albatross. He never gives a reason why, but we accept the returning whiteness as _ the symbol of evil. It is this incident which reminds us that man by his very nature succumbs to evil, not for any reasoned cause, but merely because in moments of weakness man feels the fascination and unexplicable mysteries of evil, and does not resist. At the moment it seems almost superfluous to mention Coleridge's next two points: 5.
Avoid artificial materials; use those true to life. 6.
Poetic faith inspires "willing suspension of disbelief." So skillfully has the poet brought us to believe that the events of nature and man mentioned thus far say to our inner souls far more than such events usually express. 7. The end of poetry is pleasure or delight arising from within the whole poem itself.
While the poem should please, the source of that high pleasure should be within it, whether the source is meter, rhyme, - 561 or truth.
Here and elsewhere in his critical writings Coleridge approves of truth that arises from within the poem, but opposes the addition of another truth or lesson imposed on the organic poem from without.
Thus to read "The Ancient Maniner' only as a lesson which points the moral that we should be kind to birds, or to point to the nearfinal thought beginning, He prayeth well, who loveth well Both man and bird and beast. (text, pages 584-586 ) as the kernel of the poem which justifies all else, is to read Coletidge with a shallowness as unfair to his genius as it is unsustaining to us. 'To moralize thus is to violate the integrity of both poem and poet. 'This poem is a great moral allegory, in which the conflict between good and evil is recreated through use of imagination, symbol, and sense imagery. Instead _ of preaching a moral, this poem creates within itself a far larger, deeper theme: that when man, constantly torn between the elemental conflict of good and evil, succumbs to do evil, he suffers for his sin and expiation is never complete; only in part he can atone by showing love for all life. Let us not narrow so great a theme into a moralizing about kindness to animals. 'T'o do so is to sell the soul of the poem for a mess of pottage. 8. "Imagination is the soul of poetry."
Without the blending power of the poet's living imagination no poem can come alive.
Without imagination, which is first and last, all else is vain.
Only with imagination as its soul is such a poem as this possible. — $62
Other Poems of Coleridge These same values and rewards _are found in "Christabel" (pp. 176- 184), developed by similar techniques, although in this poem the tone of mystery and the developing awareness of evil are suffused more subtly throughout the entire fabric of the poem. Likewise a fragment, the sensuous, luxurious "Kubla Khan" (text, pp. 184-185) is an intense revelation of Coleridge's rich imagination. "France: an Ode" (pp. 185-187), has the tone and power of great poetry, and best represents the pure idealism of the young Coleridge. "Dejection: an Ode" (pp. 187-189) is powerful in its pathos as Coleridge bids farewell to "My shaping spirit of Imaginaa (1. 86) which he feels he has ost. Note to Class Leaders: While on first reading it might appear that this study of Coleridge has been only  to justify his criticism, actually the purpose of this detailed approach has been twofold: (1) to point out how great art arises when solid critical principles have first been clearly established; and (2) to sketch, in some detail, a method for absorbing a poem with profit and increased understanding, hence enjoyment. The suggested method for presenting this lesson is, first to discuss in detail similar to that within the lesson as much of "The Ancient Mariner" as time will permit; then to read the poem aloud. It would seem particularly profitable, here as elsewhere in our study, to encourage the class to read both the lesson and "The Ancient Mariner" some time before the lesson period. Suggestions for Discussion 1. Why is "The Ancient Mariner" a great ballad? 2. How can its large, sustained popularity be accounted for?. How does Coleridge make us see and feel what he wishes us to? 4. What is the function of unity within a poem? How is it attained in "The Ancient Mariner''?, 5. Discuss the poem as a conflict between good and evil. | Womeel «hecenas like Progress of Man Part Ill—In the Way of Destiny | Lesson 16—The British Constitution Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, chapter 30). For Tuesday, November 25, 1952
Objective: To make clear how Great Britain has set before the world an example of free government, the outgrowth of centuries of struggle for liberty, and how her political organization has influenced for good constitutional systems all over the world. The Secret of England's Greatness HE island of Great Britain, including Wales, Scotland, and England, is slightly larger than the State of Utah and less in area than the State of Colorado. This "tight little isle" as it has been called, has exercised a wonderful influence upon the world. It has been said that England's LESSON DEPARTMENT isolated position is by far the most important factor in the understanding of her constitutional history. Great Britain is separated from the main coast of Europe by a narrow strip of water some twenty miles wide, but this channel has afforded a natural defense against the other nations of Europe.
From time immemorial the nations of Europe have manifested a jealousy of each other, and have possessed a desire to possess as much of their neighbor's territory as they could obtain by the power of might.
This greed and fear have necessitated the creation of large standing armies on the continent of Europe constantly at hand ready for any emergency. The English Channel has obviated any such need on the part of Great Britain. The Bill of Rights, passed in 1689, declared that "the maintenance of a standing army in time of peace without the consent of parliament is contrary to law." England's greatness also lies, Dr. William Bennett Munro has said, in the genius of her people: The fusion of racial strains—Celt, Saxon, Norman and Dane—gave to the British islands a breed of men in whom the ardor for free political institutions was strong. So strong did it prove to be, in fact, that it ultimately became the root of Britain's difficulties with her own colonists. The people of the British Isles, and their descendants wherever scattered, have in all ages been impatient of improvised, uncertain, or dictatorial authority; on the other hand they have had at all times an innate respect for political authority based upon their own consent. And something, finally, must be attributed to the happy accident that no rigid constitutional framework was devised in the earlier stages of British history 563 to hold the course of political develop-.
Ment in check. The Briton has never had much use for political abstractions. He has been openly averse to a system of government based upon fixed principles and involving the application of exact rules. For this reason the British constitution has never been permitted to assume a stereotyped form. It has remained umnsystematized, uncodified and to a degree indefinite (The Governments of Europe, pp. 3-4). Then, again, the blood of Israel is profusely scattered throughout the island of Great Britain; not so profusely in the "Emerald Isle."
This accounts for the fact that the friction between England, Wales, and Scotland could be brought to a peaceful close with a unity among these peoples; but in Ireland the conflict has gone on even to the present day. Moreover, another sign that the blood of Israel was widely diffused in Great Britain is manifest in the fact that out of this land have come to the land of Zion the thousands who have received the gospel.
Next to Great Britain there have come out of Europe the largest numbers of Latter-day Saints from the Scandinavian countries, and then from Germany. All of these nations are closely related by blood. Political Stability of Great Britain While in early times England was subject to absolute monarchial rule, in the course of time that nation developed into the world's greatest imperial representative government. In the British nation, when the people become dissatisfied with an administration, they take the same steps which are taken by the people 564 of the United States, they resort to the ballot box and express their choice.
When that choice is expressed it is the end of the matter, the people respect the will of the majority. In despotic countries this is not so. The art of free government has been the greatest contribution. Of the AngloNorman race to the civilization of the world.
Civilized man drew his religious inspiration from the East, his alphabet from Egypt, his algebra from the Moors, his art and literature mainly from Greece, and his laws from Rome But his political organization he owes most to English conceptions, and constitutional systems all over the world are studied with words and phrases which can be explained only by reference to the theory and practice of English government. It is true, of course, that representative government has sprung from the soil in other countries, but it has usually withered and died. The British constitution is the mother of constitutions; the British parliament is the mother of parliaments. No matter by what name the legislative bodies of other countries may be known, Congress or Chamber, Reichstag or Rigsdag, Storthing or Sobranje, they all bear the impress of their maternity. It is hardly an exaggeration to say, therefore, that the democratization of the entire civilized world, largely through the influence of Anglo-Norman leadership, is the most conspicuous fact in the whole realm of political science. Not to know and appreciate this fact is to miss the first clue to an understanding of the science of government (Munro, The Governments of Europe, page 1). It is true there has been representative government in other countries. Ancient Greece was under such a rule. For hundreds of years the Nephites had some sort of government of that kind, and many of the Germanic tribes of Europe, even while they were in the midst of their savagery, and before Christian ity reached them, exercised a sort of democracy. But these forms and.
Attempts at.
Popular government perished in the course of time. The influence of the British Empire has been the: leaven, in this regard, which has leavened' the lump in modern times. The pain, the struggles, the accomplishments obtained in behalf of freedom, have been felt in many other lands, and other peoples have been influenced by them. Unique Character of the British Constitution Great Britain has never assembled a constitutional convention like the American colonies did. In 1787. The British constitution is a composite picture containing many fundamental measures passed by Parliament, and her unwritten laws which have survived the ages. It is composed of the charters, statutes, precedents, traditions, and court decisions that have come down piecemeal from very early times. It may be defined as being without definite body and form, but, nevertheless, composed of many parts. It is a living thing. It may at any time be modified or changed by act of Parliament, yet the great features which express the liberties of the people are so definitely fixed and the thread of this freedom is so indestructibly woven through the fabric that to destroy it would be to destroy the nation itself.
While the people of the Empire _ are living under a monarchial form of government, and they honor their king, yet all the affairs of state are well within the hands of the people.
LESSON DEPARTMENT The British system of government shows great stability. This comes, no doubt, through long centuries of custom and training. The enforcement of the law in Great Britain is superior to that in the United States, where too much attention is paid to the technicalities and too little to the spirit of the law. In this respect the United States needs drastic and permanent reform. 'Io our shame our officers at times have shown disrespect for the intent of the law and inexcusable delay at the expense of the taxpayers. Because of the law's delay and the failure of justice through technicalities, we have witnessed in the United States disgraceful scenes within recent years—scenes which have brought down upon our heads the just rebuke and ridicule of foreign people. Fabrics of British Constitutional Law There are several great elements at the basis of British constitutional law. These are: the Magna Charta of 1215, the Petition of Right of 1628, the Bill of Rights of 1689, the Act of Settlement of 1701, the Act of Union of 1707, the Great Reform Act of 1832, the Parliament Act of 1911, and the Government of Ireland Act of 1922. These, taken altogether, however, constitute but a fragment of the British constitution. 'There are many ordinary statutes which have been passed by Parliament dealing with sundry matters. 'These acts range over many centuries, coming down to very modern times. The common law is the body of legal rules which has grown up outside of 565
Parliament and gained general recognition.
English history began with a monarchy where the king was practically supreme. The king made the laws and his officers enforced them. 'The change came gradually, and the responsibility of making and enforcing the law was eventually shifted to other shoulders. The Stuarts held to the doctrine of the divine right of kings.
They also sought to destroy the measure of representative government which had been established before their time.
James the First was wise enough not to attempt to enforce all of his views.
Charles the First was not so wise, and his attempt to enforce his despotic rule carried him to the scaffold. It is said that in the reign of Charles II the people were as indifferent to their form of government as at any time. One historian has said: Charles II was at this period as absolute as any monarch in Europe. The nation seemed to have lost all idea of liberty, and nothing but the indolent, unenterprising disposition of the king prevented him from riveting the fetters of tyranny so as to render them indissoluble (General Biography, Vol. 2, page 616). Charles, however, died without accomplishing his purpose, and his brother James II, who succeeded him, was eventually forced to abdicate and William, Prince of Orange, and his wife Mary, eldest daughter of James, came to the throne.
This was the end of despotic rule in England. Today Parliament makes the laws of England, and, while its form is that of a monarchy, it is neverthe- 566 less "'a veiled republic." No statute is valid today without the Crown's consent.
There is never an appointment made, including that of the Prime Minister, except it is done in the name of the Crown.
Britain is today "Her Majesty's government," and every department is "Her Majesty's'—the navy, the army, Parliament, or whatever it may be. Parliament, however, wields the real power of the British government. It can make her laws and change them, but the people would as soon expect to see the island sink into the depths of the sea as for Parliament to attempt to change some of the fundamental principles which have become so well established through long usage and custom, such as the right of the individual  to the possession of private property, which is a part of the constitution, but not a part of the written law. | Thoughts for Discussion 1.
What has been the distinguishing mission of Great Britain in history? 2.
Have someone report what has been the effect of her island location upon Britain's history.
Cite historical events. 3.
What factors have made for the stability of the British representative system. Of government? 4.
Show that, despite the continuance of the Crown, "Parliament wields the real power of the British government." 5. Why is the English Parliament justly called "the Mother of Parliaments?"
Name countries which have modeled their form of government, in part, after that of Great Britain. Jo a Seacher Alta J. Vance She lived above the world And caught up many to her higher plane.
Between her and those who walk in clay There was a bond If they but wished to grow. She placed high value on the human soul And recognized its limitless possibilities. For a dozen years she taught me; For a life time I shall recall her teachings; And I shall hope my heaven Will At her feet— give me further learning To hear her voice and know again Her majesty of soul. » ' Real Estate (Continued from page 515) work until the boys get older.
Might be you could find work in Halloway in the winter, if you needed more than the farm would make."
Christie sat quietly for a while, her eyes half closed.
When she finally spoke there was a new determination, a lilt of hope and courage in her voice. "We're going to do it, Mr. Burrows. We're going to buy your farm! Somehow I know that it's the answer for us." And she was more certain than ever when the boys came back, and she told them her decision.
Johnny was beside himself with joy, and the glow which had been gone from Ross' eyes since his father's death miraculously returned. Fisher Towers (Continued from page 517) off the bottom of Fisher Towers, on up toward the LaSal Mountains, in Forbidden Valley. Forbidden Valley is so named because it is so difficult to reach. In Onion Canyon the roadbed and the stream bed are the same for about a mile. The canyon is narrow, only ten feet wide in one place, and not much more all the way, with the walls rising four hundred feet.
These walls are the same deep red as the Fisher Towers, being part of the same formation. The whole Moab area is full of places of great beauty and strange sights, towers and gorges, cliffs and canyons. Yet even here Fisher Towers are unique and deserving of the visitor's highest praise. SACKED MUSIC CHURCH PIANISTS CELESTIAL ECHOES ROVENGER..0._ 91.00 CHAPEL ECHOES PERRY.. Ccccccscccccsuesessssseescecesnveseeeeeen
175 CHAPEL MUSINGS PERRY..--cccccecccosmmuesessssnesessessneeeseee
75 SABBATH DAY MUSIC RANDOLPH..---ccscccccosssccconseeseoveeeeeo-s 1.00 SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO ARNO) Soe. 1.25 SACRED PIANIST STICK LES -cccccsc-ccccsssececcsseseecesssseeeeeee 1.00 SACRED PIANO ALBUM GAHM ooccccccccccccssccccssececsssvececseeeeeee 1.25 SACRED PIANO VARIATIONS STICK LES cocccccceecccceeeesecteccccccccee wh ®D TRANQUIL HOURS» PRESSER. Ccccsscccccscccescccsesscecessveeeees-ee 1.25 TWENTY PIANO DUET TRANSCRIPTIONS OF FAVORITE HLMNS KOHLMANN 0000.. Eect Music Sent on Approval — We Pay Postage — FIRST OF ALL — RELIASAITV ahha 1 MAIN STREET SALT Ms city 3, had ic Co