LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) THE CHILD?STUDY COURSE LESSON 4 THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INTELLECT IN CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH Based on chapter 4 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs. In Part One of our text we are considering the different phases of the child's growing personality?his instincts, his active nature, his intellect, his moral and social traits, and his mastery of the arts of expression. The last lesson, it will be recalled, had to do with the child's active nature and needs, the main point being that, since the normal child is active, the chief job of the parent is to wisely guide this activity. We shall now consider the growth of the child's intellect. To help us here we have Chapter IV written by Dr. Walter F. Dearborn, professor of Education at Harvard University; a very reliable authority. 
 A.?WHAT IS INTELLIGENCE? Intelligence is difficult to define because it can never be detached from a lot of other personality traits which are closely related and which overlap it. The following, however, are samples of the definitions of intelligence attempted by a number of leading psychologists: 1. "The ability to learn." (Pintner.) 2. "General intelligence is the ability of the organism to adjust itself adequately to new situations." (Stern.) 3. "Intellect in general is the power of good responses from the point of view of truth or fact." (Thorndike.) It is interesting in this connection to note the very remarkable reference to intelligence made by the Prophet Joseph Smith: 1. "The glory of God is intelligence ---- 2. "Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be." Questions 1. Can intelligence be acquired, or is it part of the child's equipment at birth? 2. What has the brain to do with intelligence? 3. What is the difference between intelligence and knowledge? 4. Where and under what circumstances did the Prophet Joseph make the above statements with respect to intelligence? B.?HOW CAN WE TELL HOW INTELLIGENT A CHILD IS? (Pages 73-79) If one were asked to roughly estimate, without the aid of a test, the intelligence of a child, one would undoubtedly interview the child, cross-examine him, and observe his reactions generally. This common-sense method of appraising a child's intellect was used by the teachers in Paris when Alfred Binet started to experiment with intelligence tests. The intelligence test which Messrs. Binet and Simon devised is nothing more nor less than a refinement of this common-sense procedure. The chief difference being that the questions, instead of being asked at random, are standardized for the different ages. When these questions were made uniform it then became possible to compare the answers and responses of one child with those of other children. This is the genius of the intelligence test. The term "Mental Age" is used to indicate concretely the child's general level of intelligence. Thus, if Alice, 10 years of age, displays intelligence like that of the average eight-year-old child, we say that Alice has a mental age of 8 years. The I. Q. or "Intelligence Quotient" represents merely the relationship of the child's mental age (M. A.) to his chronological age (C. A.) Thus, in the examples cited, Alice would have an I. Q. of 80, which is arrived at as follows: 10.00 (C. A.) 8.00 (M. A.) 80 (I. Q.) Questions 1. What is distinctive about the intelligence test of Binet and Simon? 2. What has been the effect of their work? 3. What other ways of testing and measuring intelligence do you know about? C.?WHERE DO THE INTELLIGENCE TESTS FALL DOWN? (Pages 79-82) There has been a great deal of criticism of the various intelligence tests because it is said they do not accurately measure intelligence. In the first place, it is contended that native intelligence cannot be tested apart from learning. That is to say, the intelligence test of necessity measures knowledge, experience, and learning, as well as capacity. Secondly, the child's facility or lack of facility with language enters into the test to a great extent. Thirdly, that the personality of the tester, the conditions under which the test is given, and the physical and emotional state of the person being tested, affect the results very materially. Fourthly, that most intelligence tests fail to discover and measure the nature and extent of unusual intellectual powers. Granted these criticisms and others, the fact remains that intelligence testing has come to be a most helpful method of comparing and classifying persons for educational and vocational purposes. It is axiomatic in the field of mental testing that the results of intelligence tests should, in individual cases especially, be accepted tentatively and interpreted very cautiously. Questions 1. What other values and limitations can you see in intelligence testing, as it is now practiced? 2. What kind of training is necessary to administer and to interpret intelligence tests? 3. What dangers lurk in the careless and unprofessional use of intelligence tests and test results? 
 D.?MENTAL AND PHYSICAL GROWTH (Pages 83-88) One of the most important and at the same time difficult problems is the inter-relationship of mental and physical development. The author's discussion of this topic is an excellent bit of work; it should be read carefully and with the following questions in mind: 1. Does the intellect develop at the same rate and for as long a period as the body? How is this to be explained? 2. What is the difference between the intellectual development of the inferior and the superior child. (Examine the chart on page 82, noting carefully the differences in the 3 curves.) 3. What is the author's theory as to why prodigies often "peter out" in later years? 4. How do you harmonize the author's statement that "The intelligence quotient tends to remain constant during the greater part of the period of growth?" (page 83.) With the actual facts in the cases cited? (pages 86-87.)