[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The New Year Relief Society Prayer]

EDITORIAL

.

Motto  Charity Never Faileth

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor                 Susa Young Gates
Business Manager       Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager      Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. V.                           JANUARY, 1918.                           No. 

Be kind, our Father, as in long past days, to thy daughters in Zion. Remove from us fear of death and of bodily ills. Plant in our hearts faith and hope in Thee, in place of dread and gloom. Renew the springs of life within our toil-worn bodies, and touch with healing balm our maternal terrors in these last dreadful days upon thy footstool. Shield our sons from sin, and our daughters from vanity. Give wisdom to our husbands; and to all, loving patience. Spread the wings of thy Spirit over our homes, with the peace that follows Thy presence. Let the cords that bind this great Society be strengthened by our unselfish companionship. Increase our powers to serve Thee, through helping oft each other. Balance our daily choice of duty by the scales of wisdom and calm deliberation. Remove excitement and over-zealous enthusiasm far from us. Give us to see the only solution for the sickness of the war-ridden world in the preaching of Thy all-healing word. Help us carefully to train our sons as soldiers of the Cross, ready for life or if need be for death  with the shield of purity, or on it.

Remember mercifully the President of this Society in her unflinching testimony and constant avowal of Thy purposes. Magnify her counselors, inspire all who bear office and responsibility herein that each may be as a light set in the windows where storms rage without. Direct those who hold the destinies of this Nation in their hands. Turn them as Thou wilt. Especially do Thou remember our representatives at Washington who hold the holy priesthood and who stand as beacon lights in the midst of swirling waters. In faith and gratitude we pray for President Joseph F. Smith, who stands as the mouthpiece of divine revelation, between Thee and Thy earthly children. We praise Thee for the gifts of wisdom and leadership with which Thou hast mightily endowed him. Above all men on earth, for we pray him and his associates, especial witnesses of Christ, that their feet may never stumble, their spirits never fail. Likewise be merciful to all who minister in the ordinances of the priesthood for the living and for the dead. Give us victory over despotism and barbarity; sanctify our Country's cause. Strengthen the principle of republican government in every land and clime. Give us all to know that we are citizens of Thy kingdom and pensioners on Thy bounty. Let the light of love and sympathy illumine our lives and shed radiance over all our dark hours. Hasten the day when men shall glorify Thee and seek only to do Thy will. Come, Thou King of kings, rule upon this earth and banish death, sin and all iniquity. We wait upon Thee, Lord.

OLD GLORY.

The stirring and patriotic poem found on our frontispiece page is by George H. Brimhall, president of the Brigham Young University at Provo. The author could have chosen no more opportune time for its presentation than on the occasion of the birthday of the former loyal and honored President Brigham Young. After these verses were written and an audience of several hundred were thrilled with their rhythm and beauty, set to ringing music by Prof. Clare W. Reed, head of the music department of the University, it was decided to send the words and music to Chicago for publication. From the
publishers, a leading Chicago newspaper obtained the poem, and from it was copied in one hundred journals and newspapers throughout the country who sent requests for the song. The song can be purchased at any music store, price 25 cents.