[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: If We Could See the End Annie D. Palmer]

If We Could See the End. Annie D. Palmer. Ah, me, if only we could know the way, The thing to do and the word to say. That would help our fellows and do the good That with all our hearts we wish we could! There's many a blunder and stinging wrong Would be kept from our lives as we plod along If we the end could but see. Sometimes a gift with keenest delight We prepare for a loved one with all our might, And instead of pleasure it gives unrest That is poorly hidden within the breast, And we never can look or think or care For the misplaced gift, for regret is there. Oh, the end is far to see. It may be a word of praise we give Hoping to help someone to live In a happier mood, and by some mischance Of occasion or wording or tone or glance Our meaning is lost, and counted a sneer. Hurting the spirit we meant to cheer. The all we may not see. A desire to do, or hear, or possess A thing for self we oft suppress That another the happiness may receive And that other is burdened and made to grieve. And they in turn will sacrifice all And to the receiver 'tis wormwood and gall, Because they cannot see. Ah, such misunderstandings are hard indeed! If we could but feel a comrade's need. And always do and give and say Just what we desire, how it would pay! But each spirit close shut in its earthy cell Is condemned apart from its fellows to dwell And thus, we cannot see. Sometime, dear God. in thy infinite love Wilt thou in mercy these barriers move;' Abolish these walls of oppressing clay That hinder our spirits and shut us away. And condemn us to live in our prison cell Through life alone, all alone, to dwell? O Father, help us to see! By Amy Brozun Lyman, General Secretary. Liberty Stake. The Liberty stake Relief Society recently held a teachers' convention and social in the Second ward meetinghouse. There were four hundred Relief Society workers in attendance. Special instructions were given to teachers on their duties, with many excellent recommendations for future work. It was suggested that the teachers make it a point in their monthly visits to discuss all topics that deal with home problems such as family budget, food problems in war times, thrift and economy in household management, family planning, etc. The home-bound work was discussed. Our readers probably are familiar with the particular work that is done in the Liberty stake in the interest of those who are unable through sickness to leave their homes. A general discussion was held and questions on the teacher's work were answered and explained. Luncheon was served from 12 to 1 o'clock, when the ward teachers were the special guests of honor. After the luncheon a concert was held. Curlew Stake. In Curlew stake the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations have united for Red Cross work. A committee was appointed from each of these three boards to organize the work and as a result of the work of this committee a Red Cross auxiliary has been organized in each of the wards of the stake. Alpine Stake. One afternoon during the month of October, the women of the Relief Societies of Pleasant Grove, Manila and Lindon put up eleven hundred quarts of fruit,  tomatoes, peaches, pears and apricots. The City Council of Pleasant Grove donated $25 and the rest of the cash expenses were met by the three Relief Societies. The fruit was donated by the townspeople, and the management of the cannery, with all the workers, gave their services. The cans of fruit were packed in cases and have been stored in the Relief Society emergency cupboard. Fremont Stake. The Fremont stake has on hand $200 worth of imperishable. 
 food stuff. This stake has recently added twelve beautiful quilts to its emergency cupboard. Northern States Mission. While the Relief Societies at home have been accomplishing so much along "preparedness" lines the Missions have also been doing special work along these lines. In the West Iowa conference, the lady missionaries have directed and assisted the women of the Relief Society in canning and drying fruits and vegetables. In those cases where the women were not able to purchase fruits, the elders, under the direction of the conference president, collected and carried fruit from the orchards in the rural districts to these women. As a result all of the families have conserved large quantities of fruit for winter use. St. George Stake. Accepting the invitation of the various bishops the ward Relief Society choirs furnish the singing for the fast meetings. This feature has greatly increased the attendance at the fast services. Denver, Colorado. The Institute for Home Service given under the direction of the Bureau of Civilian Relief of the Mountain Division of the Red Cross began its work on November 5, and will continue for a period of six weeks. The Institute is limited to twenty-five students in order that field work may be efficiently given and properly supervised. The Institute is under the direction and supervision of Miss Gertrude Vaile. chairman of the Bureau of Civilian Relief. Lectures are given by Dr. Osbourne, of Boulder University, Miss Gertrude Vaile and Miss Florence W. Hutsinpillar, assistant secretary of the Bureau of Charities, of Denver. Colorado. Utah is represented at this Institute by the following women: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Miss Mae Hawley, of Salt Lake City; Mrs. Cause and Miss Cora Kasius. of Ogden; Mrs. Hendrickson, of Logan, and Mrs. Palmer of Provo. The field work is given under the direction of the Bureau of Charities and the Red Cross Division Headquarters, and consists of family and institutional visiting and investigation. The object of the Institute is fully realized in the splendid instruction in methods of conducting home service work among the families of soldiers and sailors. Granite Stake. An entertainment of a most pleasing character was given at the Granite stake tabernacle on Tuesday, October 23, by the stake and ward Relief Society officers, in honor of two retiring member? of the stake board, Mrs. Laura E. Cutler and Mrs. Emily M.