THE SEX.

	THEODOSIA BROWN of Whitehall, weighs
400 pounds, and lives on a daily allowance
of one egg and one prune.
	MISS ANNIE Lippincott, a daughter of
"Grace Greenwood," lately made her debut
on the lyric stage at Dowagiac, Mich.
	HAVING NO children, Laura Keene reared
and bore the educational expenses of her
two nieces, and made them her heirs.
	GIRTON COLLEGE at Cambridge, England,
a new institution, founded to promote the
higher education of women, is now open.
	MISS ELIZABETH Ball, a Dublin lady, who
died a few days ago, has bequeathed £6,200
for founding a church and several Protestant
charities.
	MRS. SARAH J. Hale, the editor of Gody's
Lady's Book, is 85 years old and is still vig-
orous in body and mind. She has been a
widow since 1822.
	ATTORNEY-GENERAL William's wife pro-
poses to the ladies of the Cabinet that no
refreshments shall be provided at their en-
tertainments this winter, and that the mon-
ey they would cost be given to the poor.
	MISS EFFie Moore, a great-granddaugh-
ter of the widow of Ethan Allen, is the
leader of scholarship and deportment of the
last freshman class in the University of Ver-
mont and State Agricultural College at Bur-
lington.
	A NEWSPAPER managed by women, has
been established at Pueblo, Mexico, and a
Catholic priest who has recently married, is
contributing to it a series of articles against
the celibacy of the clergy.
	MDLLE. BELOCCA the new prima dona at
the Italian Opera, Paris, is a young Russian
lady, who enters the theatre with a decided
vocation for the stage. She belongs to a
family of high consideration, enjoying an
income of over 100,000fr. a year, and her
father is one of the most distinguished
savants in the empire.
	MISS SARAH E. Fuller has received an
award of merit for wood engraving from the
Vienna exhibition, a very well deserved
tribute to years of patient skill and effort.
Following this good example our own Gov-
ernment gives her no less substantial encour-
agement in the shape of the contract for
illustrating Prof. Raymond's work on min-
ing.—Golden Age.


NOTICE is given in the "Woman's Jour-
nal," of a woman's tea party, to be held to-
day in Faneuil Hall, to celebrate the one
hundred years that have elapsed since our
brave ancestors threw the tea into Boston
Harbor to prove their determination not to
pay taxes, while they had no representation.
The Women Suffragists will use the occa-
sion to emphasize the fact, that to-day, while
women pay taxes on millions of dollard they
have no representation.


