WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column1]
		PROGRESS OF A YEAR.
THE FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECU-
	TIVE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN WO-
		MAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is a representative body, composed of
auxiliary State associations. The main work,
therefore, devolves upon these State socie-
ties, and will be reported in detail by them
this morning.
	The principle work of this Association is
to create auxiliary societies, to stimulate
them to activity, to watch for opportunities
to forward our cause in every State and Ter-
ritory in the Union, and to prevent all hos-
tile legislation, both by the States or by
Congress.
	I am happy to report that during the last
year we have formed two new auxiliary
State societies, one in Maine and one in New
York. In accordance with a vote adopted
at our last annual meeting, we have co-op-
erated with auxiliary State societies in pre-
senting Memorials to the Legislatures of
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Virginia,
South Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Kansas, California,
Oregon and Nevada.
	In this work Mrs. Tracy Cutler and Mrs.
Margaret V. Longley, gave most effective
and valuable service. We have also corres-
pended with members of Congress, and
worked actively to defeat the effort to merge
Wyoming in Colorado, and to abolish Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah.
	The Judiciary Committee prepared and
carried through the United States Senate a
bill to suppress polygamy in Utah, which
also prohibited women from voting, and
established the English Common Law con-
cerning wives in the form "in which it ex-
isted at the time of the Declaration of In-
dependence." The common law, as con-
strued at that date, gave to every husband
the "custody of his wife's person," the right
to "give her moderate correction," the right
to keep her by constraint, the right to all
her money. It took from the wife every
thing, rights of person, rights of property,
blotted out her legal existence; and left her
with the one right to be maintained. A
right which is accorded to idiots and town
paupers.
	For this enormity Senator Frelinghuysen,
of New Jersey, is especially responsible.
Under the covert expression, "The common
law as it existed at the time of the adoption
of the Declaration of Independence," he
struck a dastardly blow at every right of the
married women of that Territory. The bill
passed the Senate but was defeated in the
House by the active opposition of Mr. Sar-
geant of California, (now senator from that
State) and by other representatives, so the
women of Utah still vote.
	"A Memorial, in behalf of Woman Suffrage,
was presented to the Massachusetts Legis-
lature, signed by Lydia Maria Child, Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps, Louisa M. Alcott, Abby
W. May and many others; also a Memorial
headed by John M. Forbes, Ingersoll Bow-
ditch, Dr. Samuel G. Howe, Gov. Claflin,
Wm. Boyd Garrison, and a long list of
worthy names. Both were refered to a joint
special committee. Nearly a week's time
was devoted to its discussion, and at each
session the galleries, aisles, and all available
standing space in the House of Representa-
tives were literally crowded with men and
women, eager listeners to the debate. The
vote was taken on the same day, and imme-
diately after the vote for the United States
[Column 2]
Senator, and was lost, 77 Republicans voting
for and 121 against it; 17 Democrats voting
against and 2 for it. This action was taken,
in spite of the square and complete endorse-
ment of Woman Suffrage in the platform of
the Republican party.
	Since it thus appears that men will allow
themselves to accept nominations to the
Legislature, while they feel no moral or hon-
orable obligation to support the platform on
which they were elected, the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Society have voted to form
Woman Suffrage Political Clubs, united by
the following pledge:
	"We, the undersigned men and women,
citizens of Massachusetts, of all political
parties, believing that Woman Suffrage is a
vital political issue, do hereby organize our-
selves into a WOMAN SUFFRAGE POLITICAL
CLUB, for the purpose of forwarding the
Movement, morally and politically—by the
systematic circulation of tracts and newspa-
pers, by holding public meetings, and espe-
cially by helping to elect the friends of suf-
frage to the Legislature and to defeat its op-
ponents."
	Two such clubs are already formed, one
in Dorchester and one in Lawrence. Thus
is begun the seed sowing for a new party,
by those who know that God works with
those who work for principle, and that every
law of the universe is on the side of those
who side with justice.
	The Massachusetts society has circulated
a large number of tracts the past year, and
added to its former list three new tracts by
Geo. F. Hoar, T. W. Higginson and Mary
F. Eastman. It is now arranging for a se-
ries of Conventions to be held in most of the
large towns and cities of the State, with a
special view to forming Woman Suffrage
Political Clubs.
	The growth of public sentiment in favor
of the interests of Woman is steady, every
day growing wider in its scope.
	The higher education of Woman was
very ably discussed at the Social Science
meeting in Boston, and the subject was
more widely noticed and considered by the
newspaper press of the country than ever
before. Perhaps the most noticeable fact on
this point is the establishment of the Boston
University on the basis of equal opportuni-
ties for men and women in all its depart-
ments. Four ladies, who passed excellent
examinations, are already members of the
Classical course. Every College or Univer-
sity, which has admitted Woman, reports
good results, and in no instance where they
have ever been admitted have women after-
wards been excluded.
	A convention of Woman ministers was
held in Boston last May, with very satisfac-
tory results. Twenty ladies were present
who had been regularly ordained, most of
them are settled in charge of congregations
and are laboring with much acceptance as
ministers. A Woman's Peace Meeting was
also held, about the same time, giving the
voice and influence of Woman for peace.
Both these meetings were under the special
care of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
	Several ladies are in successful practise of
the law. Mrs. Hapgood Nash is the law
partner of her husband in Maine; Phebe
Couzzins in St. Louis; Miss Hewlett in Illi-
nois, and Mrs. Lockwood in Washington, are
each admitted to the bar as regular practi-
tioners. Four women in Michigan Univer-
sity are in the law department. Dental col-
leges in Philadelphia, Baltimore and Cincin-
nati admit women.
	Women physicians are more numerous ev-
ery year, and are as successful as men. In-
deed, Woman's place in the medical profes-
sion is so well established that efforts are be-
[Column 3]
ingmade to give her access to greater advan-
tages for study, as a matter of necessity.
	Training schools for nurses have been es-
tablished in Boston and New York.
	In New Jersey women have been made
eligible to the office of school trustee, and
several have been elected, while in Massa-
chusetts a large number have been elected
members of the school committees. The
Legislature of New Hampshire voted that
the women of that state were not competent
to vote on school committees. One is not
surprised at this, when we know that the
same Legislature passed a law giving any
married man whose wife had been insane
twelve months, a right to sell her real estate.
The insane married woman, in New Jersey,
whose reason is restored after thirteen
months, returns to find her property confis-
cated and with no power to get it back. Is
it strange that a body of men who could pass
such a law should think that women were
not competent to serve on school commit-
tees?
	Quite a number of women have been
elected County Superintendents of public
instruction in Illinois and Kansas. The law
making women eligible to this and other of-
fices connected with public instruction in
Illinois, was enacted at the instance of Hon.
J. B. Bradwell. The Supreme Court of
Illinois has decided that a wife may con-
tract, sue and be sued, may earn, own and
enjoy property on an equality with her hus-
band.
	The Common Council of St. Louis reject-
ed the petition oi one thousand women of
that city, asking for the repeal of an odious
city ordinance by which houses of prostitu-
tion are licensed,and women subjected, legal-
ly [?] to the grossest indignity. But the
Rev. Geo. Eliot brought suit in the courts,
and obtained a decision declaring the ordi-
nance unconstitutional. It is understood
that those who desire to continue the license
of this sin, will appeal to the Supreme Court.
	The circuit court of the state of New
York decided, in the case of Miss Anthony
and other women, who claimed their right
to vote under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
amendments, that their votes were illegal,
and a fine was imposed on Miss Anthony.
Thus the law holds that to be a crime, when
done by a woman, which is praiseworthy and
right when done by a man.
	"Scribner's Monthly," the "Churchman,"
and other conservative publications have
lately attempted to revive the fading idea
of the ownership of wives by their hus-
bands. But the great Methodist church has
stricken out the word "obey" from its mar-
riage service. and all the Protestant sects,
except the Episcopal, are fast following the
example. And in many of our States, the
past year has witnessed important modifica-
tions of the property laws for wives, all in
the direction of equality in the marriage re-
lation. Nowhere has there been any re-
verse legislation. The High Courts of Hin-
dostan have affirmed the right of a widow
to the independent use of property inherited
from her deceased husband. Everywhere,
spite of Dr. Holland and the "Churchman,"
the tendency is to equality of rights between
husband and wife, and between man and
woman in all the relations of life.
	LUCY STONE.	Chairman Ex. Com.


California, it is stated, pays more Internal
Revenue tax than five of the New England
States together.

	The nomination for the Chief-Justiceship, of
Attorney-General Williams is not popular.


