MISCELLANEOUS.
	Be frank with the world. Frankness is
the child of honesty and courage. Say what
you mean to do on every occasion, and take
it for granted that you mean to do just what
is right. If a friend asks a favor of you, you
should grant it, if it is reasonable; if it is
not, tell him plainly why you cannot. You
will wrong him and wrong yourself by
equivocation of any kind.

	A printing office has been opened in con-
nection with the Vienna Institute for the
blind. The whole cost of this undertaking
was derfayed by the Imperial Government
Printing Office. Er. Frahkl, the superin-
tendent believes that by special tuition his pu-
pils will be enabled to learn the art of print-
ing, so as to equal in dexterity those not so
afflicted.—The Lithographer.

	TWO ROMEOS— During the celebrated com-
petition, in the year 1749, between Garrick
and Barry, in the character of Romeo, it
was observed by a female critic that, in the
garden scene, Garrick looked with such ani-
mation, and was so spirited in his gestures,
that if she had been Juliet, she should have
thought he was going to jump up to her, but
that Barry was so tender, melting, and per-
suasive that, if she had been Juliet, she
should have jumped down to him.

	What we want is strong-minded and large
natured women who will not be the slave
of dress, or of reform, or of any one idea;
who will understand the philosophy and re-
cognize the beauty and adopt the necessities
of dress without staining its possibilities;
who will neither dwarf nor magnify its im-
portance, but will know how to follow fash-
ion with moderation and discrimination, to
lead it with benificince, and make it in all
things a minister of grace. If the woman
is subordinate to the dress, it is not the
fault of the dress but of the woman.—Gail
Hamilton.

	Sara Coleride, whose memoir has just
been published in London, said a good many
bright and sensible things, but nothing bet-
ter than this of Dr. Chalmers: "O, when 
the wordy doctor does get hold of an argu-
ment, what a sputter he does make with it
for dozens of pages. He is like a child with
a new wax doll; he hugs it, kisses it, holds
it up to be admired, makes its eyes open
and shut, puts on it a pink gown, puts on it
a blue gown, ties on it a yellow sash; then
pretends to take it to task, chatters to it,
shakes it, whips it; tells it not to be so proud
of its fine false ringlets which can all be cut
off in a minute; then takes it into favor
again, and at last, to the releif of all the
company, puts it to bed."


