REPORTER'S COLUMN.
	MR. AND MRS. FRANK TOWNSEND
left the city on Wednesday, to visit familiar
scenes in St. George; while they drink wine
with cherished friends there, we miss them
at home.
	WE ARE IN RECEIPT OF FAVORS
from R. T. Burton, London, R. Mudge, San
Francisco, and E. Hoffman, San Leandro.
		AND ACKNOWLEDGE	
documentary indebtedness to our Prove cor-
respondents, M. and L. They may look for 
reposnse in the EXPONENT.
	WM. B. FAHNSTOCK, M. D.,
in a treatise on Artificial Somnambulism,
claims that it requires ten different functions
to constitute a faculty of the brain, viz.
Conciousness, Attention, Perception, Mem-
ory, Association, Likes, Dislikes, Judgment,
Imagination, and the Will.
	AN ENJOYABLE CHOIR PARTY
was given in the 15th Ward Hall, on Friday
evening, December 12th, a commendable
feature of which was, that it closed at 12
o'clock.
			WHILE
we bespeak for our friends and patrons a
merry, merry Christmas,
	SANTA CLAUS'S COMPLIMENTS;
the rolling wheels of time bring again the
season specially dedicated to festivity, and
kindest expressions of sentiment, and good
wishes. After providing good cheer for the
least favored in the community, we naturally
desire to make our immediate family, and
kindred, and personal friends feel the
warmth of genial sun-shine that fills our
hearts, and as worldly gifts are always an ac-
ceptable medium of expression, we reflect
upon what will please this one, what will
become that one, and what will fit the other.
Then the money question comes up, and we
wish the J. Cookes, & Co. had all been
honest, and let the currency of the country
do its legitimate work—pay for honest labor.
Then so many more little socks could have
been filled, and so many more hearts made
glad.
	Many a corner that was devoted last year
to the family Christmas Tree, must this year
be vacant; many tables that (figuratively,)
groaned under the weight of luxuries last
Christmas, will stand, neglected by the wall
on the forth-coming gala-day. And why is
it so, while there is as much money in the
country, and just as many good things as
formerly? It is because of dishonesty and
bad management, together with a lack of
financial ability in our country's representa-
tives. Sad realities for a proud, experi-
mental government to present to an approach-
ing Centennial. Shade the picture. And
heed the lesson—that is easier to practice
honesty and voluntary retrenchment, than
to be compelled to eat the fruits of dishon-
esty and to practice compulsory retrench-
ment.
		BRING DOWN THE PRICE.
	Sewing machine monopoly has reached
[Column 2]
the dimensions of a swindle. Our readers
may not all know that sewing machine man-
ufacturers have become immensely wealthy
on their immense profits; and to increase
their wealth-power, they are in league to
maintain the established extortionate prices.
The average cost of machines at the various
manufacturies is estimated at $13, 16.
Agents bring these machines to us for from
$80 to $125,00.  Our sewing machines
should not cost us more than $25,to $35.
While we celebrate the centennial of the
soaking of the tea in Boston Harbor, let us re-
solve to let agents pay storage on machines
until they or their employers bring down
the price.					S. M. K.


