Must she, TO PROVE SHE HAS A SOUL,
Fling gentle attributes away,
And where black war-clouds darkly roll
And death's red banners float, enroll
Her kindred humankind to slay?

Best fitted for the sword or pen
Are woman's slender, stainless hands?
The one devours the life of men;
The other helps him back again
To heaven's bright, celestial lands.

Is woman's mission strife or peace?
Her fittest task to wound or heal?
To rivet fetters or release
Woe's weary victims and increase
Man's power to fight and conquer ill?

Or say you, do I look too high
And ope for her too wide a door?
Must she not turn her longing eye
On anything beneath the sky
Beyond her small domestic lore?

Is she but fit to sweep and sew,
To spread her master's table well,
To go and come, to come and go,
On one unvaried round, and grow
In nothing good if nothing ill?

Has she no mind to cultivate?
No heart for fatherland to glow?
No int'rest in the future fate
Of sons and daughters, that her state
Is almost slavery, vile and low?

With heart and hands with petty cares
So overfull, she cannot gain
That culture which alone prepares
To mold Humanity's sweet heirs
Fit to adorn a lofty plane.

Since on the souls of men her seal
In fadeless characters is set,
Oh let her know, behold and feel
The glorious crown of mortal weal
Her God, upon her brow has set.

In woman's hand her God has placed
His dearest and most sacred care;
With lofty aspirations graced,
While attributes and motives chaste
For her high destiny prepare.

As idle tools will surely rust,
Neglected harps lose perfect tone,
So human powers howe'er august,
When left without improvement just
Dwindle till usefulness is gone.

As plants untended droop and fade,
And weeds choke out most precious seed,
So woman's mind, a desert made
By long suppression, needs the aid
Of cultivation broad and deep.

Her wisdom makes her son more wise,
Her courage makes her daughter brave,
And in the light of her fond eyes
Whose hope, in their bright future lies
Will loftier thoughts their spirits lave.

Let woman,s sphere, then, not be small;
Her powers developed, not confined,
Her intellect, will, body, all
Emancipated from the thrall
Which far too long has round them twined.

Whatever she can well perform,
Whatever she aspires to do,
Whate'er expands, protects from harm
Or gives her life an ample form
Is well, O man, thrice well for you.

When your mind's culture is complete,
Your nature polished and refined,
For mate in life t'is surely meet
You have a soul, not simply sweet,
But strong and noble, heart and mind.

No shadow, charming toy nor slave
Can ever be companion true;
To fit her for her duties grave,
More light and room must woman have—
To walk side by side with you.

Your children thus will nobler be,
Their powers thrice be multiplied,
For turn to history's page and see
The hero's mother; it was she
Who made him worthy of our pride.
							LU DALTON. 
[Column 2]
			R. S. REPORTS
	The Secretary of the Farmington Relief
Society, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, reports
that the young ladies of that place, under
the supervision of President Mrs. Holmes
have been organized into an association;
with Mrs. Lucy A. Clark as President;
Mrs. Mary E. Robinson, Mrs. Pheobe Peart,
Miss Julia Haight, Miss Elizabeth Cowley,
Miss Emma Holmes, Miss Ellie Rogers
Counselors; and Miss Lousia Stayner and
Miss Minerva Richards, Secretaries. Miss
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D. Young were
present at the organization, and the report
of our correspondent shows that a very inter-
esting meeting was held.
	On the 27th of November, "Thanksgiving
Day," Miss Eliza R. Snow and a number of
other visitors met with the Relief Society
of the 19th Ward of this city. The meet-
ing was presided over by President Mrs. A.
A. Pratt, who announced that it was held
as their Annual meeting, which was post-
poned in July, on account of her being ab-
sent from the city. One very pleasing point
made in Miss Snow's remarks to the 
assemblage was, that whatever advance-
ments might have been made by the sisters
of the Society since its organization, of
which she was unable to judge, its members
had just occasion to be proud of the marked
improvements which had been made by
their President and Secretary; she was proud
of the progress of her sisters in different
parts of the Territory where she had visit-
ed, and thankful for the interest manifested
in the cause of enlightenment. She was
followed by several other speakers, includ-
ing Bishop Raleigh. In the evening the vis-
itors attended a meeting of the Young La-
dies' Association. Altogether, the ladies of
the 19th Ward considered that "Thanks-
giving Day" had been to them a very pleas-
urable and profitable one.


