AMATEUR COOKERY.

	There is a kitchen millennium approach-
ing, when the occupation of domestic croak-
ers will be gone, and they will have to search
elsewhere for employment, because the ques-
tion of service is to be speedily settled.
"What shall we do with our daughters?"
questions Mrs. Livermore of nearly every
lyceum audience in the country. "Make
cooks of them," answers Mrs. Howe tri-
umphantly, and sets to work at once on her
plan of reformation. It has had a small be-
ginning in the "Girls Club." They meet
every Saturday during the winter. When
it was time for the meetings to cease for the
season, they resolved themselves into a num-
ber of small clubs for work during the sum-
mer. There was a French class formed, an
Italian class, a class in mental philosophy,
another in social analysis, and at Mrs. Howe's
suggestion, a cooking club.
	This is by many the largest class of all,
and decidedly the most enthusiastic. All
manner of experiments are tried; old fami-
ly recipes are hunted up that have been
hidden away because they have been utter-
ly useless, and yet were kept in the family
like a tradition. French cook books are stu-
died with more earnestness than was ever
given to French grammar. The regulation
cook looks on aghast, but as yet says nothing.
She is a trifle more supercilious; she is very
skeptical; she does not believe that this new
enthusiasm will last; she does not dream
that her scepter is falling from her hands to
the dainty white ones open to receive it.
Isn't this the beginning of a social revolu-
tion?
	Every week a supper or dinner or a break-
fast is given at the house of one of the
members, and every one has to contribute
something to the feast: The mysterious
"something" comes in a hand-basket care-
fully packed, and is given into the hands of
the ones who arrange the tables. Then there
is such a flutter of anticipation and eager-
ness until the doors are opened into the
dining-room, when they all flock eagerly out,
first to test each other's cooking. "How
nice that bread looks. Who made it?"
	"Oh! these delicious almond cheese cakes,
where did they come from?"
	"I brought them," calls one; "and what a
time I had with them. I didn't butter my
tins enough, and they broke dreadfully when
I took them out; but I mended every one,
and you never would know."
	"Parker House rolls! Who is up to that, I
wonder?"
	The blonde beauty of the club acknowl-
edges the rolls, and her sister, a young ma-
tron, lays claim to the bread, while the
chicken croquettes are owned by a bright,
black-eyed girl, who, when her duties as act-
ive member of the Cooking Club permits
her, translates biographies from the German
and writes pretty letters for the papers. Of
course these girls are very careful of criticism,
and they praise everything that comes to the
table, as they feel in duty bound to do. But
there is, beyond all this, a test by which
everything is really tried. After the sup-
per is over, a general talk on cooking ensues,
and recipes are exchanged. If a recipe is
not asked for, the unfortunate dish is never
again offered at the table. One of the young
ladies has already determined on gathering
together the nicest recipes, those that have
been tested, and publishing a cook book—a
cook book for girls, to be used for all practi-
cal purposes by the coming cooks. It will be
designed for those young house-keepers, too,
who are going to begin their domestic in
the old-fashioned way—of caring for their
houses themselves and making them really 
homes.—Boston Post.


CHEERFULNESS IS an excellent wearing
quality. It has been called the bright
weather of the heart. It gives harmony to
the soul and is a perpetual song without
words. It is tantamount to repose. It ena-
bles Nature to recruit its strength; whereas,
worry and discontent debilitates it, involv-
ing constant wear and tear.


