		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	ORDER.––Never leave things lying about
–– a shawl here, a pair of slippers there, and 
a bonnet somewhere else, trusting to a ser-
vant to set things right. No matter how
many servants you have, it is a miserable
habit, and if its source is not in the intel-
lectual and moral character, it will inevita-
bly terminate there. Children should be
taught to put things back in their places as
soon as they are old enough to use them.
If each member of the family were to ob-
serve this rule, the house would never get 
much out of order, and a large amount of
vexation and useless labor would be avoided.
	TABLE CONVERSATION.––A great deal of
character is imparted and received at table.
Parents too often forget this; and therefore,
instead of swallowing your food in sullen
silence, instead of brooding over your busi-
ness, instead of severely talking about others, 
let the conversation at the table be genial,
kind, social and cheering. Do not bring dis-
agreeable things to the table in your conver-
sation any more than in dishes. For this
reason, too, the more good company you
have at your table, the better for your chil-
dren. Every conversation, with company at
the table, is an educator of the family.
	WHAT MAKES A CHEERFUL TEMPER.––
If by chance one stumbles on a  household
where the woman does not disdain house-
wifery work, and especially the practical su-
perintendence of the kitchen, there we may
be sure we shall find cheerfulness and con-
tent. There seems to be something in the 
life of a practical housekeeper that answers
to the needs of a woman's best nature, and
that makes her pleasant and good-tempered.
Perhaps it is the conciousness that she is do-
ing her duty––of itself a wonderful sweet-
ener of nature; perhaps the greater amount
of bodily exercise keeps the liver in good

[Column 2]

tone; whatever the cause, sure it is that
homes of the active housekeepers are more
harmonious than those of the reckless and
do-nothing sort.
	TO DETECT COPPER IN PICKLES OR
GREEN TEA.––Put a few leaves of the tea
or some of the pickle, cut small, into a phial,
with two or three drachms of liquid ammo-
nia, diluted with one half the quantity of
water. Shake the phial, when, if the most
minute portion of copper is present, the
liquid will assume a fine blue color.
	ICEING FOR CAKE.––One pound of pul-
verized sugar, the whites of five eggs. Beat
the whites until very dry, to which add the
sugar very gradually, a teaspoonful at a
time until all is added. Put on the first
coating without thinning. Make the second
sufficiently thing with lemon juice or rose-
water to go on smoothly. Put in a warm
place to dry.
	ANTIDOTE FOR POISON.––A poison of any
conceivable description and degree of poren-
cy, which has been swallowed intentionally
or by accident, it is said, may be rendered
almost instantaneously harmless by swal-
lowing two gills of sweet oil. An individ-
ual with a very strong constitution should 
take double the quantity. The oil will neu-
tralize every form of vegitable or mineral
poison with which physicians are acquainted.
	SPICED TOMATOES.––To four pounds of
large, red tomatoes, take two pounds of good
brown sugar, a pint of cider vinegar, half
an ounce of cloves, and half an ounce of 
stick cinnamon. Stew all together in a pre-
serving kettle over a slow fire, until the to-
matoes are nearly cooked. Take them out
and put them on dishes to cool, letting the
syrup go on simmering slowly. When the
tomatoes are cold, return them to the syrup
and finish cooking. Let them become cold 
before putting them into jars. The syrup
must be boiled down as thick as molasses,
and poured cold over the tomatoes. Tie them
down with bladder or waxed paper.
	A VALUABLE CEMENT.––The following is
a useful cement to fasten objects of wood to
others of metal, glass, stone, etc. Good
cabinet makers glue is warmed up with wa-
ter to the consistency necessary to connect
wooden objects; then add enough sifted ash-
es to bring it to the thickness of a varnish.
The cement should be applied to the surface
of the objects to be united when warm, and
then they should be pressed together tight-
ly. After cooling and drying, the surfaces
are so strongly united as to require great 
force to separate them. Grinding stones
fastened on wood, and handles to painters'
stones for grinding colors' have been used
for more than a year without exhibiting any
appearance of fracture.
	LEMONS FOR FEVER.––Says Dr. Hall;
When persons are feverish beyond what is
natural, indicated in some cases by a metallic
taste in the mouth, especially after drinking
water, or by whitish appearances on the 
greater part of the surface of the tongue;
one of the best "coolers," internal or exter-
nal, is to take a lemon, cut off the top, sprin-
kle over it some loaf sugar, working it down
into the lemon with a spoon, and then suck
it slowly, squeezing the lemon, and adding 
more sugar as the acidity increases from be-
ing brought up from a lower point. Inva-
lids with feverishness may take two or three
lemons a day in this manner with the most 
marked benefit, manifested by a sense of 
coolness, comfort, and invigoration. A lemon
or two thus taken at tea-time, as an entire
substitute for the ordinary supper of Sum-
mer, would give many a comfortable night's

[Column 3]
sleep, and an awakening after rest and in-
vigoration, with an appetite for breakfast to
which they are strangers who will have their
cup of tea for supper, or "relish" and "cake,"
and their berries or peaches and cream.


