	      SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN.

	On the 4th of January, 1851, Elder B. F.
Grouard, Br. Pratt's missionary companion,
made a great feast, to celebrate his 33d birth-
day. It was at his own dwelling house; a
building 70 feet long, without a partition;
in which three families lived, one at each
end, and one in the centre, each knowing
its own boundaries: room plenty, cooking
all done outside.
	The manner in which the house was built;
showed taste and ingenuity. Timbers up-
right, sticks woven between, like a willow
basket, plastered out side and in, with lime,
made from the coral rock, white as new fall-
en snow. The roof, a thatching of the leaves
of the "Farra" tree, a foot in thickness, im-
pervious to both rain and heat.
	To this feast a hundred guests were in-
vited. The food was purely native, with
the exception of fifty mince pies, made by
four American women, who were there with
their families, belonging to the mission.
The pies were made for the special occasion,
and acknowledged to be of superior quality.
The ground floor of the house was first cov-
ered with long coarse grass, thickly lain;
then broad mats spread through the centre,
from end to end, answering the purpose of


both table and seats. Then table cloths of
plaited leaves, on which the food was lain,
independent of dishes. Then large leaves
the size of dining plates were placed in or-
der around; these last were in the place of
china. The cocoa nuts, containing the sweet
milk, which we were to drink instead of tea,
were made to stand erect, so as to be used for
drinking cups; (one to each plate,) plucked
at an early stage, when the milk is delight-
ful drink. The rough bark taken off, the
shell of a pale yellow, contrasted beautifully
with the dark green leaves. The pigs, fowls
and fishes, were cooked whole, by the na-
tives, in ovens made in the ground; served
up as neatly, unbroken, and unbruised, as
any white woman in the world could have
prepared them. Then the fruits of the Island,
a score of varieties, were interspersed, giving
a charm to the whole.
	I have seen tables adorned with the costli-
est dishes, but never did my admiration rise
so high on any like occasion, as at the sight
of that table! When all were seated around,
Brother Grouard called on the Lord in the
Tahitian tongue, which we could mostly un-
derstand; and rendered thanks, that he had
lived to see that day; for which he had so
fervently longed, for eight successive years,
when Elders would come to his relief, and he
be at liberty to return to the church. It was
truly an affecting scene, cheerful as everything
appeared. Those of us who knew him best,
knew what he had mentally suffered, in that
secluded world, among a people who, though
they clung to him with the devotion of chil-
dren for a parent, were incapable of com-
panionship for a man in every way consti-
tuted to enjoy society of a high order; and
though he might love them for their artless
innocence, there could be no interchanging
of corresponding sentiments between them to
satisfy the longings of an aspiring mind.
	After the dinner was over, the lord of the
feast made an appropriate and pathetic
speach in his own language, (interpreting to
the Island guests,) relative to his joy in greet-
ing so many of his old friends on that for-
eign shore—the missionaries with their fam-
ilies had but newly arrived—and how he
felt repaid for his years of solitude, in see-
ing our faces once more in the flesh. A strong
sense of duty had bound him there, as he
had been instructed previous to leaving Nau-
voo, not to build up churches, and leave them
without an Elder to preside: he had been
true to his trust. After receiving hearty con-
gratulations; he further remarked, that if he
lived 33 years more, which would bring him
to his 66th year, he would make another
feast, and invite us all, if we were living
on the earth. We all expressed wishes that
it might be so, however great the uncer-
tainty.
	A few words, I must say about the dresses
of the native sisters: Their dresses were
principally of fine bleached domestic; there
were a few pink muslins; long, lose robes,
reaching below their feet, which were bare:
these robes were as neatly washed and ironed
as they could be done. The younger women
wore wreaths of flowers about their heads
and necks, and flowers in their ears for jewel-
ry. Flowers in January, natural ones; fine-
ly scented; and the only kind prized by the
native women. "Oh," thought I, "here in
this little world" (I could walk around it in
a day,) "stern winter does not come! No
biting frost, no ice or snow. The God of na-
ture has set their bounds—'Thus far canst
thou come and no further'"	L. B. P.


