			PERSONS.

	In one of his celebrated essay, Lord Ma-
cauly discusses the love letters of Sir Wil-
liam Temple. He says he would very wil-
lingly exchange tons of State papers for a
very moderate amount of these love letters.
The letters of William Temple to his Doro-
thy are certainly interesting enough, and at
this time of the year especially, may be as-
sociated with wider and deeper sympathies
than the Triple Alliance. Macauly says he
would very much like to know what proofs
of tenderness a young lady would be per-
mitted to give her lover. We should for
our own part have thought that this was a
dangerous and distracting subject for his-
torical investigation, fraught with decided
peril to the historic mind. The first idea is
that the manners and customs of lovers do
not greatly vary in any age. This, however,
would perhaps be a mistake. In the dia-
logues of Erasmus the young lady refuses
to give her betrothed a single kiss, classically
observing, "Ut me totam iilibatamaque tibi
trodam." In some shades of society cares-
ses have been strictly inhibited, and it is in-
teresting to see that Lord Macaulay had di-
rected his powerful mind toward the eluci-
dation of the subject. In the opinion of
another great writer, with whom Macaulay's
mind had much in sympathy, we mean
Alexander Pope, love letters lay at the
foundation of all literature. He describes
how they “speed the soft intercourse from
soul to soul:"
Heaven first taught letters for some wretch’s aid—
Some banished lover, or some captive maid;
They live, they speak, they breathe what love inspires,
Warm from the soul, and faithful to its fires;
The Virgin’s wish, without her fears impart,
Excuse the blush, and pour out all the heart.
	Most of us know by heart Tennyson's 

[Column 2]
pretty little poem about "The Letters,” how
“she gave my letters back to me,” which
the young lover refused to receive:
	She told me all her friends had said,
		I raged against the public liar;
	She spoke as if her love were dead,
		But in my words were seeds of fire.
	I spoke with heat, and strength and force;
		I shook her breast with vague alarms—
	Like torrents from a mountain’s source—
		We rushed into each other’s arms.

	Love letters form part of the choicest ma-
chinery of the poet and the novelist. Pope’s
own letters, whether to Lady Mary Wortley
Montague, or to Erinna, or to Martha Blount,
are probably love letters, and we shall watch
with much interest their elucidation by
Whitwell Elwin. One of our most popular
novelists discusses with much force the great
value of these letters, and how men who
are unable by word of mouth to do them-
selves justice can nevertheless thoroughly
reveal their whole nature in their love let-
ters. This is probably very true. Many
men get on much better in paper work than
in a viva voce examination. At the same
time it must be very puzzling to many
young ladies of the present day to have
highly intellectual letters from their lovers.
They must be greatly puzzled when gentle-
men of a speculative tone of mind, or some
sucking young “lion” of the press of the
future, sets forth his whole nature for Aman-
da or Amata. As a rule the letters of any
genius with a gift of utterance must cause
decided wonderment to the fiancee who will
probably mainly rely upon the endearing
expressions at the beginning and end, or
any wax kisses that may be discovered on
the envelope. We have heard it suggested
that young ladies in such difficulties had
better apply to their brothers at college.
That the subject of love may not loose its
power over the minds of young men, ob-
serve that the sapient authorities of the
University of Cambridge have given as the
subject of a gold medal this year,
	"Hominun Divuugue voluptas
	Alma Venus."
	The love letters of eminent persons are
generally letters written before they became
eminent. A great author will not confine
his intellectual efforts to the penny post
when a publisher will handsomely remuner-
ate him for revealing them to the world.
In the case of poets a large part of their ef-
fusions might without much straining, be
brought within the category of love letters.
But then other “eminences" mostly write
their love letters before they achieve great-
ness or have greatness forced upon them.
This is a great consolation for the lawyer
that can get no briefs, the doctor that can
get no practice, the young politician who can-
not get a seat, and the young writer who has
his articles rejected. They can take it out
in their love letters. I am sorry for any
eminent man who has to engage in this de-
scription of correspondence. According to
the old joke the lawyer might tie up his let-
ters with red tape, and the physician may
make a muddle of his prescription. Love
letters must take it out of a man, and, in
point of fact, love-making requires an
amount of time and concentration of pur-
pose that can be ill-spared from professional
pursuits. Eminence generally means effort,
and a man in full work cannot afford time
for such ludibria lunce. They form the glo-
rious privilege of leisure and youth.
	Among the more remarkable love letters
is the celebrated volume of “Foster’s Es-
says.” We believe that all these remarka-
ble essays were originally written to the lady 
to whom he was engaged. McDonald makes
one of his novels simply autobiographical;
love letters written by a man to vindicate

[Column 3]
his character in the eyes of the woman he
loved. Literary men are not always so vol-
uminous in this description of epistle. We
once detected a very able reviewer in the
weakness of writing a love letter. “I’ll
not detain you long,” he observed; “I never
give the young women more than a 'short
notice.'" The young reviewer ought to have
written his letters a year or two before; he
had now too much work on hand. There is
a glorious old poet, Thomson, the author of
“The Seasons,” who shows a sad gleam of ro-
mance in his verses to Amanda.—From
London Society.


﻿FORGET-ME-NOT.—In the'Gardner’s Mag-
azine is related an interesting incident of
a lady gardener who gathered a handful of
the world renowned flower forget-me-not,
and to preserve them as long a period as pos-
sible, they were put in a soup-plate filled
with rain-water. The flowers were placed
near the window. In a surprisingly short
space of time threadlike roots were emitted
from the portion of the flower-stalks in the
water, and they ultimately formed a thick
net-work over the plate. The flowers re-
mained quite fresh, excepting a few of the
most advanced, when gathered, and as soon
as the roots began to run in the water, the
buds began to expand, to take the place of
those which faded, and up to the middle of
November the boquet— if it may be called
—was a dense mass of flowers, and a more
beautiful or chaste ornament for the indoor
apartment cannot be imagined.


