FEMININE BEAUTY.

	The loveliest adornment of perfect wo-
manhood is unconsciousness of self. If the
woman possessed of this rare virtue be lack-
ing in physical beauty, nay, even plain, there
is an air in her innocence and simplicity
more potent than the smiles of the fairest
featured siren that ever deluded the sus-
ceptible heart of man. There is something
in the presence of a vain and pretentious
woman that, be she ever so fair, repulses
rather than attracts admiration. She is re-
garded only for the symmetry of her form
and features, and like a cold and senseless
statue of stone, her eyes never change or
lose their fixed and soulless expression; they
never lighten up with the beauty of thought
nor sparkle with the conception of any new
and sublime idea; their changeless look is
not the repose of peace, nor the steady gaze
of unchanging happiness—it is only the
fixed stare of a heartless, worldly woman,
whose only thought is of self; who is ever
insensible to the pleasure of doing good to
others—an expression of unchangeable
selfishness.
	True beauty lies in the hidden perfections
of the soul. The most lovely type of per-
fect womanhood is the being whose heart is
not insensible to refined and tender feelings
that mingles and blends itself with every
act and deed of her life. No feminine face
is truly beautiful that does not wear, to a 
certain extent, an expression of content-
ment and repose. Ruskin has said: "Do
not think you can make a girl lovely if you
do not make her happy. There is not one
restraint you can put on a good girl's nature—
there is not one check you give to her in-
stincts of affection or of effort—which will
not be indelibly written on her features with
a hardness all the more painful because it
takes away the brightness from the brow of
virtue. The perfect loveliness of a woman's
countenance can only consist in the majestic
peace which is found in the memory of hap-
py and useful years, full of sweet records;
and from the joining of this with that yet
more majestic childishness, which is still
full of change and promise, opening always,
modest at once and bright with hope of bet-
ter things to be won and to be bestowed.
There is no old age where there is still that
promise—it is eternal youth."—Ex.


[For the EXPONENT
