EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT.

	Improvements in the arrangements  of
schools, methods of teaching, and in the choice
of teachers, are taking a decided and pleasing
prominence in the grand march of progress, in
this Territory as well as in other portions of
the world. No changes which are marking the
present era of time, can be of a more satis-
factory nature, and none could be more neces-
sary.
	In time past, it has been with the teachers
of youth here, too much as with the clergy
abroad. Parents have thought that their chil-
dren must go to school, no matter what sort of
a school was taught; neighborhoods have con-
sidered that schools of some kind must be es-
tablished within their precincts, even if they
had to pay high prices to persons totally unfit
to fill the positions of teachers. Just as men
having no ability for accomplishing anything,
have been installed in the pulpit, in different
parts of the world, as teachers, of the gospel.
	Often, in consequence of a want of educa-
tion and reflection, parents and guardians have
thought that one would do very well as a tutor
and overseer of little children, if he were so un-
fortunate as not to be naturally gifted with a
common portion of good sense, or even though
his moral character might be questionable.
	Utah however, as probably many other por-
tions of country when newly populated, until


late years has been in a great measure excu-
sable for the supporting of schools of inferior
quality. When all the inhabitants of her com-
munities who could and would work at man-
ual labor, were compelled to do so for the sub-
sistence of themselves and their families; how-
ever much natural abilities or education might
have enabled many of them to excel as in-
structors of the young, there was little room
for choice as to who should be the common
educators of the children.
	But happily, that period is passing away, and
brighter ideas of better methods are being
molded into practical shape. Men and women
of superior talents, great force, energy and
strength of character are coming forward to
aid the genuine cause of real advancement.
And present appearances indicate profitable
and gratifying results.


