		LITTLE GRAVES.

	Little graves—they are sacred things,
holding through all the long vista of years a
hallowed spot in our memories. Our minds
are carried back to a time that seems but
yesterday, as we contemplate the little
mound of earth which covers what we once
considered our chief treasure. How we
clasped the little forms to our hearts, fondly
thinking that our holy love could protect
them from every harm; but sickness and
pain laid hold of them, and all our strongest
efforts were unavailable. Death, grim and
relentless claims them and we can only
weep over the icy forms which but a few
short hours before were warm, breathing,
loving human beings. And we are fain to
acknowledge the strength of that grim
hand, that can change to lifeless clay the
glowing beauty and bright impulses of the
treasured forms. How quickly the hand of
decay marks its progress! All too soon the
lovely form must be robed in the habiliments
of the grave. The cold, clods fall upon the
coffin lid; and colder yet upon our hearts is
every sound that shuts them from our sight
forever! Forever? No! it is not forever!


Only a few short days, or years perhaps,
and we shall all be gathered to that un-
known land, to meet the angel forms that
wait to give us welcome there. And yet,
in those short years, what changes come!
New ties spring up around us, and other
little forms claim our love and care. New
joys surround us, new sorrows cross our
paths: and often when we kneel in fervent
prayer, we feel to say, Heaven's will be
done; 'tis better thus, our little ones should
sleep, and know no care, nor grief of life's
dark hours. God is all merciful, and in his
care no pain or toil or dark unhallowed pas-
sions fix their impress on the immortal soul.
No taint of crime, or guilt can reach the
heart that went so innocent and pure.
	Oh Thou great power supreme! Who
holdest the destinies of our poor, erring
hearts, say, hast thou seen some merciful
providence, in strewing thus our land with
little graves?
	Let us gaze with reverence on these way-
marks of our mortality; and when our long-
ing hearts are filled with high ambitious
thoughts, and love of gold or fame or emi-
nence shall fill our minds, we'll kneel beside
our buried hopes, and know that all our
cherished plans, our worldly hopes and fears,
our pleasure or despair, must end in this—
the grave.—
	Kneeling beside those little mounds, we
may shed grateful tears, and ask in prayer
the holy power that guides our daily walks,
that our paths may all be filled with peace,
and love, aud righteousness; that we may
so live that when our souls are called hence,
we may join the angel bands, and rejoice
with the faithful where sin and sorrow en-
ter not.						M. J. T.
	Provo.


For the EXPONENT.
