A Prince of Ur.
Homespun.
The lofty chamber of Azzi-jaama was ablaze with lights if the master workman could not go about, he could burn great cauldrons of oil in the illumination of his own costly audience chamber, even at the mid-day hour. It was a theory of his, that crime and sin loved darkness; light was the enemy of baseness and murder. So he was extravagant in his demands of more light. This Sabbath day he was very restless. His gleaming eyes and ebony face worked with silent emotion. He knew that his daughters and his one cherub boy were about to die. He had been deceived by his crafty wife concerning their imminent danger, and fancied, from the exceeding quiet and silence that brooded over his dwelling during the earlier part of the day that the terrible catastrophe was averted for the time—and he was somewhat comforted. A long but muffled whistle, sounded so close to his ear that he would have been startled, only that his was a nature that was prepared for sudden changes in the universal phenomenon which we call life. Signing to one of his attendants, the thick curtains over the grill-work in the lower end of the apartment was lifted, a hidden doorway was revealed, and at another signal, the eunuch placed a key in the door, and the low portal swung inward, revealing a dark and low passage, leading downward in the bowels of the earth. From this aperture, there presently emerged the tall form of the Damascean merchant. He was followed quickly by the first shepherd who had accosted him at the city's gates but an hour before.
Azzi-jaama gazed sternly at the merchant, who was an apparent stranger to him, and said sharply: "What bird has flown, and whose gold is ready that you seek my presence so rudely and without invitation, through my private passageway?"
The merchant again changed the posture of his upstretched arm, and with his fingers all outspread, he said quietly "The bird is caught, and now lies panting upon Elkanah's altar."
"Slaves, retire! I will call if I require your presence." The black servants quickly withdrew, salaamiing profoundly as they left his presence. The carver turned to the merchant. "Speak without fear. What is thy clear meaning?"
"Thy daughters, Azzi-jaama, now are in the sacred walls of the Ziggurat, while thy little child plays with the fires of Elkanah."
"God of Adam and of Noah! Can such things be? Is my life, my prayers, my devotion to my master, my sacrifices of all that I have held dear lost upon the God of Noah? Can my master Terah sit by while I am thus despoiled? What have I not sacrificed for him?"
The old man's cries were pitiful in their agony—terrible in the revelation of the cankered spot in the strong courage which had sustained him through his chequered life.
The shepherd, distant cousin of Terah, and himself a lifelong friend and associate of the Javanese image-maker, stepped sadly forward and said with profound emotion: "May it not be that thou hast served Terah better than thou hast served God?"
The cripple screamed out with the force of the blow. This was the tortured thought which had banished sleep from his pillow since Abram had last visited him and had frankly hinted just such a solution to his life-failure.
"Out upon thee, for a sword-speaker. Thy thrust pierces my vitals. 'Tis that which makes this hour hell unqualified. My daughters have remembered their sainted mother's teachings better than I have remembered my covenants beside the altar of my grandfather Japheth. O merciful God of Adam and of Noah!"
The two listeners shrank from this naked revelation of a strong soul's unveiling. But they could not stop their ears. The piercing voice cried on—
"Take my life but spare my lovely daughters. They, O Lord, have been true to Thee. I alone am the culprit. Visit me, O Lord, with thy hot displeasure! Punish me with death upon the altar, or in any way that will shrivel my flesh and scarify my body. But spare, O spare my children! These are so innocent, so helpless!"
It was more than men could endure. The merchant said boldly "Men must bear whatever life may bring. Spur thy courage, Idol-maker. Death is not our worst sorrow."
"Ah, thou hast used my title—Idol-maker—once so cherished, so desired. It is that which hath caused my downfall. It was this cunning hand, this fertile brain that I allowed to be mine undoing. I was proud of my skill of my ability to fashion the curious and grotesque idols which should symbolise to these vain worshippers of wood and stone, the very gods which they were so determined to see and touch and cover with jewels. And when my master Terah saw my skill, he listened to my pleadings. He thought it no particular harm to make the idols—someone must do it for these vile Assyrians. And why not we? His will, and my cunning laid the foundation of all his wealth and of my present misfortunes. O that I had slain my foolish wild ambitions. 'Tis ever thus we think the gift, the personal fame, will bring renown to God if we but lavish time and life upon its cultivation. But we turn around to worship at the idol-throne which we have set up in our own minds, and forget to worship God who is a spirit and must be worshipped, in the spirit—jealously. I have worshipped my gift instead of my God. And how much better am I than the heathen king Nimrod, who is now offering up my lovely children on the altar I have myself designed and fashioned. O God, thy judgements are just, but they have slain me!"
The old man paused, his whole frame shaken with the powerful emotions he had called up. With his face bowed low upon his arms, he shook as if with sudden palsied age.
At last, the merchant, thinking to divert his attention, said as quietly as he could "That is not all the story we have come to tell. Not alone thy daughters, but the son of Terah is also to be slain upon the altar of Elkanah this night at rising of the moon unless he will hold the knife of sacrifice upon thy children."
"What? Speak again!" The old man was vibrant with attention.
"Speak, I say—drag not thy words. They carry more than my poor life-interest. Speak, I say."
"The young prince Abram is to be offered on the altar this night, unless he offers up thy daughters."
"Abram? Prince of the house of Terah? Friend of Pharaoh, reader of the heavens, builder of the Pyramids, philosopher, and priest after the order of the Son of God?"
"I have said it," repeated the merchant.
The old man looked for confirmation to the shepherd. He too bowed his head in acquiescence. The Idol-maker was now fully roused. His own loss was forgotten in this new and awful discovery. Though he was a tender and devoted father, he was an all-serving man when the life or liberty of his master was threatened. And Abram was the best and truest friend that the House of Terah had ever known.
"Come we quickly to the business in hand. What are thy plans?" said Azzi-jaama.
Briefly they outlined the plan which Lot had devised, and which Terah himself had approved of.
"The plot is good but what of father Terah?"
"He has been approached. His heart has been torn with the news of your own loss, and with the discovery of idol-worship in his own household."
The old man's face was struck with a spasm of recollection but he motioned for the merchant to proceed.
"The whole equipment of our tents and household will encamp this night outside the gates of the city. We have already secured the most of the horses for sale in the markets; we have provisioned for a year and word has been sent to the very uttermost portions of our tribes to prepare for instant immigration from the land of Ur. We know not whither our master will go but this we do know: Terah has consented to lay down all this pretense of loyalty to a cruel and an apostate senile king, whose only law is corruption, carnage and whose only religion is idolatry."
"My prayers—if I may still hope to be heard—" here the old man's voice again shrilled into personal pain.
The merchant interrupted him.
"Idol-maker—nay, I will not stain thy name with that title. The friend of Abram, and of God, I call you by your proper name—Azzi-jaama, let not thy thoughts dwell upon thy past. The past is an open grave to many of the best of men. But they or you may close it up and wreathe its memory with fragrant flowers of good deeds, if but the gracious monument of repentance be erected over that spot. Forget the past; remember only the promising future. The man is never wicked who acknowledges his sin, or his mistake, and who prays for strength to overcome that sin. It is only when we justify ourselves in sin that we are wicked and unregenerate. Your very sorrow proves that you are still capable of repentance—nay, that you are still the friend of God and of Abram."
"You are not without intelligence, merchant," said the old man with grateful humility, "even one so young can feel for the sufferer."
The merchant signalled his pleasure at these words, and the old man continued "One thing must be done before we leave this accursed place. There must be someone strong and true, with powerful arm and untainted spirit, who will go into my master's workshop and there destroy everything which my cunning brain hath imagined of idols and images. There must not be one idol, nor one precious cylinder left, to canker the mind nor to debauch the imaginations of the heathen about us."
"Your wishes have already been met."
"What meanest thou?"
"The prince Abram hath entered the workrooms last night and surprised Mardan and a hundred followers of the black art in the very act of idol-worship in the caves below. He hath utterly destroyed every image and idol. He hath not left one single toe or hand. There is naught but mortar, broken stones and twisted bronze and gold about the place. All else is crumbling ruins."
"Ah—that image—and that one was my pride—my beautiful—are all gone—but stay! My mind reverts to my sin! My pride is not yet brought to heel before my spirit. What weak creatures we men be! So Abram hath wrought this very needed destruction. How he hates the worship of these heathen gods. I pray that his own soul may never come in contact with temptation."
"He would withstand it, friend." It was the voice of the shepherd. He too was a devout friend of Abram, and he could not resist thus voicing that loyalty.
"I doubt it not."
"One question more," said Azzi-jaama. "The Princess Sarai?"
"We know little of her. She has been cloistered in her own apartment all day. But she has been commanded to appear at the sacrifice at midnight, on pain of being forced herself to sit upon the pavement of the goddess Mylitta. She hath helped to plan this flight—and hath fashioned well nigh all its details. For Lot is not a thinker; he is just a soldier. Abram is shut up in his own chambers, under the direct guard of the king. So Lot hath let the princess guide our plans. And well she seems to know. For even Terah trusts her with direction. He is like a broken reed. We know not what the princess has in mind about her own release, but we may trust her; for she hath surely planned this flight with skill and prudence."
Their conference was suddenly interrupted with another long and sibilant whistle. And the low portal in the end wall was again opened, and this time a score of sheiks, themselves leaders of great divisions of shepherds like themselves, crowded into the hall. The council became general. What was decided could best be gleaned from the closing remark of Azzi-jaama when they were about to separate.
"This passage, known only to my master's household, hath been enlarged by me, till now it goes even to the outer walls of the city. You may seek this refuge, if the soldiers press upon you too hardly. I shall try to secure some at least of my own household, a few at a time, and you may find them gathered in the place of rendezvous when you come without. I may not go, but I charge you to remember those whom I shall place in your keeping. Now, let no man value his life when his master and his God demands the sacrifice. For God and Abram must be your rallying cry. Haste, for there is not one moment to lose. The moon will rise exactly at the midnight hour, and that is but a few short hours away."
The men had scarcely left the chamber, when the curtains at the end of the corridor leading into the inner chambers of the house, were thrown violently up and the magnificent form of the Cushite woman stood before her husband. Her eyes blazed with the fires of death and her huge bosom heaved with violent emotions.
"Thou ingrate! Thou traitor! Thou coward and trickster! Whom dost thou serve? Thine own self! Thou canst not even be true to thine own interests!"
"Peace, woman," said the Image-maker, harshly, "thou hast exceeded thy limit. Shut thy lips over thy ravening passions. I will not hear thee."
"Not listen to me? Fool—carrion—thou death-in-life, what canst thou do to prevent me? How canst thou hinder my lips from pouring out the hatred and disgust with which thy besotted body fills me every time I see thee? Not listen?"
The infuriated woman struck her hands together angrily. As she did so, a dozen slaves came tumbling and trembling into her presence.
"Slaves, seize this living carcass of a man, take him to the lower dungeon under this hall, where all of you have cowered under my just anger. Quick I say—seize him—"
The Idol-maker strove to rise to his feet. But his body was sore upon him. His breath came in gasps he could only fling his arms—those arms which had carved and shaped and fashioned the cunning symbols of the peoples' mad idolatry. A few gasps, and the Idol-maker was dead. The brute woman looked wildly at her work and then with a grunt of fierce disgust she fled from the death chamber.

The Damascean merchant hurried away to speak with the political prisoner Abram. He was determined not to alarm Abram with the recital of his danger until the plans were all completed.
The Sabbath day, with its quiet silences which had been made almost unbearable to Prince Abram by the tense attitude of uncertainty with which all things in his father's palace were shrouded, had faded into the golden and roseate sunset clouds which lay like jewels from Indus against the brow of the western sky.
Abram was still busy with the hurried preparations for departure which had crowded the sacred day with most unusual and much regretted labours. But death and life for all his clan and family lay in the balance. His mind dwelt occasionally on the memory of the Princess Sarai, but so pressing were the demands of his present occupation that he scarcely had a moment to devote for this blissful occupation.
As the sun dropped slowly out of sight behind the western rim of the world, Abram looked upward at his beloved and sacred shrine, now dismantled of all its glories, and as his servants bore away the last bale of his stuffs he saw approaching him up the steps of his terraced porches, the form of the Damascean merchant.
"Strange," muttered the prince in his beard, "till yesterday I had never seen this gracious and engagingly honest Damascean—and yet, my heart is already drawn out to him with an inexplicable warmth. His face, his eyes, his very voice-tones convince me that he is the friend promised me in my dream."
"May the Prince Abram live forever," said Eliezer, in the language of the courts.
"Nay, friend, say rather, may Abram deserve to live forever," and the prince extended his hand, over which Eliezer bowed to the ground in lowly salute.
"Look abroad," said Abram, as he placed his hand upon the rough abaya of the serving man. "What scenes may not the rising sun of the morrow greet in the proud and luxurious city of Ur."
"Ay, indeed," replied the merchant with troubled awe.
"Alas, my friend," said Abram with a sigh, "this Sabbath day is almost all that is left to Assyria of the beneficent laws of our common father Noah. How soon men forget, how soon they forget."
"Ay, my master—if there were no tablets, no laws, no Sabbath services nor sacrifices, men would as quickly revert to primal savagery as would the huge double lily pads in the artificial lake yonder drop back into the single lipped flower of the jungle, if human care and cultivation were withdrawn. It is constant words and things and ceremonies which keep men's minds turned toward God and His ways."
The terrace where they stood commanded a good view of the gigantic slopes and walls of the great yellow-red-violet-golden and silvered Ziggurat which itself was reared in the midst of the priestly college and surrounding courts of the city's walls in the southern end of Ur. The setting sunbeams glanced across the glittering walls of this gorgeous Ziggurat and almost blinded the eyes of the watchers. The coloured walls of the lower halls and terraces were not less brilliant and startling than were the simpler but richer gleams of the gold and silver upper terraces. And the whole structure looked like some gigantic earth-crown, set in its embrasure of surrounding greens and all lay upon the long winding river banks like a jewelled tiara as the Euphrates trailed away northward, its silver band holding the Ziggurat as it were as an earth titanic crown-jewel.
Naught but an occasional echo of the chanting and liturgy of the temple ceremony reached the distant watchers on the terrace of Abram's private Ziggurat. But they saw the procession mount higher and higher, the thin and fluttering white garments of the women contrasting with the dark or golden tresses of the priestesses; the robe of the tall priestess in the lead was radiantly enriched and gloried by the long and gleaming golden fringes which wound about the body from shoulder to ankle. The sunset caught an occasional glitter of a jewelled amulet on a bare ankle, or the long glittering golden fringes, or a blazing emerald in the frontlet of the head dress which was a part of their formal priestly robes.
"What mockery, what devilish mockery," cried Abram as he folded his arms and looked with anguished eyes upon the distant, moving, ascending figures. The occasional sound echoes of the musicians throbbed across the silent Sabbath spaces, but they were quickly subdued by the nearer splash of the river on the walls of their terrace, or the subdued cries of the boatmen who managed their craft as quickly as might be.
"These apostate descendants of our father Shem have so covered up in the centuries since father Noah came down from the Ark, the simple and glorious truths of the Gospel, that it is mockery indeed to worship a god as they do."
"Tell me, my prince, I would know, for I am but a student at thy feet? Behold thy servant, instruct him in the ways of the Lord."
The prince looked with the brooding eyes of joyful recognition into the upturned face of his newly-made friend and disciple.
"Seest thou the abominable idol which stands, not only in the place of honour in many of our market-places and in the Potphar's Hill whereon is the Ziggurat, but is even now a part of the very palace grounds of my father—it is—"
"The fish-god, Cannes?"
"It is so called by the Chaldeans. How bestial to thus degrade into the mummery of idol worship the plain tradition of Father Noah's coming into this far-eastern land as he came down out of the Ark. To make him a Fish-god! It was used as a symbol at the first, and so accepted by the priesthood. But now priests and people alike worship the idol as it stands.
"Noah taught the people that God was the father of the race," continued Abram. "That man had been made in His divine image. Man's attributes are inherited from God, and those attributes in Jehovah have become glorified and intensified for power and action. The human family on earth has its counterpart in the Divine Family in heaven. By the side of God stands His wife, like the woman by the man. They are accompanied by their Son, who is the heir to His Father's power and He is the representative of the Father and His interpreter. As man stands at the head of all created things in this world, so, too, God stands at the head of all creation. He has called all things into existence, and He can destroy them if He chooses."
"Can it be that the voluptuous Ishtar has been developed out of this revelation concerning the Divine Mother?"
"I know not, Damascean. But this I know: God could not exist save it were with His wife and our Mother. Ishtar is the very antithesis of all that Mother means; she has been evolved out of the astrology which has grown up from the true teachings of the science of astronomy so long understood by the descendants of Shem, and even here in Ur taught by myself, in my younger days at the college of this city. Our mighty father Noah taught the gospel truths alike to all his family. These truths have been changed and interpreted to suit each descendant or people. Alas, for father Noah!"
"Where came he from?"
"From the chosen land across the great waters that now divide the earth since the days of Peleg. He and his three sons were the only ones left of all the sons of Adam save except the descendants of Cain who had already drifted over here and had filled up the countries of Egypt, Indus, and all the Accadian and Turanian lands. These superstitious peoples, our great ancestor Noah found, and to them he taught the ancient order of truth and the gospel of Jehovah. He wrote a book on the origin of things, and taught his sons the beginnings of creation and of civilisation. He left his records with his son Shem. But what have the most of his descendants done with these great and precious truths? Buried them in the mass of idol worship and pagan, heathen rites which have merely engrafted into the vile superstitions of these ungodly Turanians. The Rabmags are everywhere usurpers of the priesthood of God. Men have a desire to worship and when they know nothing and cannot find the whole truth, they wrap themselves about with its shreds and tatters. It is the teachers, the priests whom God will hold to swift and terrible reckoning; for He knows what hypocrites they are. And Nimrod the great and terrible—he knows; he knows—that is his crime and it will bring his punishment."
"Dost know, my lord, that Nimrod hath doomed thee for the executioner of the altar, or death is to be thy portion?"
"What say you, friend? Art sure?"
"So sure that every one save thyself knows of this outrage. Hark!"
Even as they spoke a confused babble of voices rose from the courtyard.
"See, Damascean, there is trouble below—" A woman's cry rang out of the Sabbath stillness.
"It is the princess Sarai. Quick, change thy abaya with me—give me thy staff—stay thou in my place."
"But Master, thy life will pay the forfeit of thus defying Nimrod."
Abram was gone.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)