"The Conference Folks."
Elsie Chamberlain Carroll.
"O, I almost forgot to tell you, mother; Conference will be held here after all. They have an epidemic of measles in Glenville. Father just got word and wanted me to be sure to tell you. Two of the apostles are coming and some sisters to represent the Relief Society and Primary." Young Richard Easton's eyes had not left the headlines of the newspaper while he delivered this information, and now he settled himself comfortably in his father's congress chair to read the war news. But something in his mother's long, weary sigh, and the way she dropped into the rocker by the window, made him look up.
"I feel like I'd rather fly than have 'conference folks' just now," she explained apologetically. "The house is so dirty, and part of the bedding ought to be washed, and I miss Nellie so when it comes to cooking for company. She always liked to fix the fancy dishes and—well I was just feeling so relieved that it wasn't going to be here this time."
Mrs. Easton had just nursed her husband and four sons through a siege of spring grippe, and was hardly recovered from a touch of the same malady herself. Dick studied his mother silently. His two and a half years in the mission field, he had left but a month ago, had given him a new understanding. His mind recalled the familiar crowd of "conference folks" his mother had entertained during the fifteen years his father had been Bishop of Hilton. There were always the apostles, and other Church authorities from the city, in whom he and his younger brothers stood in embarrassed awe. Then there were usually two or three bishops from some of the other wards, with their wives, and usually a son or daughter or two. His father's old missionary companions from Glendon always came, and his mother's cousins from Freeville. These were their regular guests. Then there were always others who had no special headquarters. He recalled many a time when their company list had exceeded twenty—and there were seven of themselves. Where his mother had managed to stow them all, only a bishop's wife could guess. It had always been a mystery to him, although he did retain vivid recollections of himself and three brothers on such occasions, being packed like so many sardines on the old dining-room sofa with a row of chairs to hold them from rolling onto the floor. He had his suspicions that his father slept at such times, in his morris chair in the parlor, and his mother in the rocker between the baby's cradle and the old sofa. And the feeding of the multitude! Conference time had always been a synonym for a feasting time in his early years. It had stood for chicken and custard pie, and chocolate cake, and fruit salad and creamy puddings. Great scott! How had mother done it? Just she and Nellie—and now Nellie was away at college. No wonder she felt like she'd rather fly. He'd had some experience himself—cooking in the mission field.
"Well, I mustn't sit here, even if I don't know where to begin. They'll all be here by noon tomorrow, and maybe some of them will come tonight. Brother and Sister Duncan usually come early, and the Davis girls like to come for the dance usually held the night before conference starts."
"Mother, why is it you always have such a mob? There's no sense in it. There are enough families in Hilton that conference need not work a hardship on any one. You never get to a meeting, do you? Why do they all come here?"
"Yes, I get to a meeting or two nearly every time, and I suppose the reason they come here is because father is Bishop and it's a sort of custom. Goodness knows we can't always make them comfortable. But they are welcome, of course. I really didn't mean what I just said. I wonder if you'll have time to help a little this afternoon. We'll have to put some extra beds and cots up stairs and I'll have to get you to catch some chickens and bring up a sack of flour from the granary." Mrs. Easton left the rocking chair and went into the bedroom where Dick could hear her opening and closing drawers, taking stock of the supply of bed and table linen. His face had been serious with his recollections of the moment before, but it now became grave. Mother was not well. No wonder she felt unequal to a task two or three women might well shirk. She ought not to be allowed to do it. He followed her into her bedroom.
"Mother, why don't you let the conference folks help with the extra work they make. As I remember it, you and Nellie do all the dishes and everything else, don't you?"
"Yes, mostly," and another sigh escaped mother. "You see, they come for the meetings and—"
"Well, they're not in meeting all the time. They shouldn't sit around and let you wait on them when they are here. It isn't right."
His mother laughed. "I used to think that, too, Richard. But it's hard to know how to go ahead in another's home when you are company, even if you want to."
The young man stood thinking while his mother took a pile of sheets and pillow slips and began to climb the stairs. He noticed that she stopped twice to get her breath before she got to the top. Mother wasn't as young as she used to be, and she wasn't well now, either. That thought persisted in Dick's mind. She ought not to have all this extra work and responsibility. Of course, he would help what he could—but—. A sudden thought took possession of him. Why he'd do it all mission style. He'd make mother go and spend the three days of conference with Grandmother and go to all the meetings and have the rest she needed. He realised that he'd have to get her out of the way, or his plan would never work, because the foundation of the mission style of handling such a situation, was the elimination of all unnecessary work (and mother might insist that some of it was necessary), and every one doing his share. He rushed up the steps two at a time and found his mother sitting on one of the beds her hand at her side.
"I get all petered out, climbing stairs since my cold," she explained.
"Look here, mother, I've got a plan for this 'conference folks' business, and you've simply got to let me try it out. You've bossed me for twenty-three years, now I want you to let me be the boss once," and he gave her an affectionate pat on the shoulders. He sat beside her and went into detail with his plan. At first Mrs. Easton remonstrated, as he knew she would, but finally his determination and her own weariness won his case and she promised to let him have his way, if father did not object.
"It isn't like there was no other place for them to stay," he reminded her. "There are plenty of people to take them in, if they don't like my manner of hospitality."
Dick hustled about fixing the beds at his mother's direction, before he went to the office to talk his scheme over with his father. As the young man had anticipated, Bishop Easton fell in heartily with the plan. "I've worried a good deal over the hardship conference time always works on mother," he told his son. "Of course, we like to make everybody welcome and we are always glad to have the authorities and our friends with us, but it is almost impossible to get help at such times and mother really never gets anything out of it but a lot of extra drudging."
"Well, she's going to this time, if my plan works and if it is successful we can try it every time, and if it doesn't work well, I imagine mother won't have quite so many to do for again anyhow." Dick laughed, as he hurried to his field of action.
That afternoon a little before dark Mrs. Easton packed her best dress, a night gown, a kimono, and an apron into Dick's suit-case, while Billie, her youngest, was getting ready to go with her to the other side of town to Grandma Hepworth's.
"I do hope everything goes all right," she began, as she hesitated a moment in the doorway, looking doubtfully toward the kitchen.
"Of course, things'll go all right," her big son assured her. "And you must remember that you are not to worry or think about us down here at all, and I want to see you at every meeting with grandma."
Mrs. Easton still lingered. "Do you really think, Richard, that you'll be able to get to part of the meetings? It would be a shame for you to miss them. Everybody will be so anxious to see you and talk with you."
"Sure I'll get to the meetings. Don't you worry. Now, good night. I'll see you at ten o'clock in the morning," and Dick kissed his mother on the cheek and gave her a gentle little shove toward the porch.
As soon as he was sure she was gone, he took a pencil and paper from his pocket and sat down at the kitchen table. "Now, let's see about our menu. With what bread mother had on hand and the big batch we baked this afternoon, there ought to be bread enough. If we run out there's plenty of crackers in the store. Mother says she always cooks six or eight chickens—part roasted and part chicken pie—but we'll change that to eight or ten pounds of good boiled beef, which will be just as 'fillin''—and a whole lot more economical, as to time and money, too. We'll cut out the pies and cakes and fancy stuff Nell always fusses over for days. There's a raft of good canned fruit in the cellar that won't tempt us to overeat like the fancy stuff would, and so go to sleep in meeting. This should be a time to feed the spirit instead of overfeeding the body, anyhow. I'll cook two big pots of Boston baked beans, and hull a kettle of father's good flint corn, and bake a couple of whopping rice puddings. I think that, with plenty of good milk and butter and cheese will keep body and soul together until the folks get home again, anyhow."
The next day Richard Easton slipped from his seat, as the choir was singing the closing song for the forenoon meeting. He hurried home where he had left his younger brother Phil in charge. He found Phil with his habitual book, but he had not forgotten to start the fire at the time Dick had told him, so that was all that was necessary. The baked beans sent out an appetising odour when the oven door was opened. The young chef placed a large saucepan half full of water on the stove. "Go down and bring up a pan of milk for me, Phil. It is quite chilly today, so I'll make a pot of cocoa." The beverage was soon bubbling on the stove, while the cook and his young assistant bustled about the kitchen. "Come now, we'll get things on to the table. No, we don't want a tablecloth. Get that roll of paper napkins and asbestos pads I brought from the store. Scatter them around on the table and leave a pile at each end. O, yes, and hang up that roll of paper towelling by the sink. There's no need of mother having a lot of extra washing. No one will object to wiping on a paper towel a few times. Now put the plates on in stacks, and the glasses too, and put the knives and forks in convenient piles. That's fine. Now run down cellar again, and bring up some butter and a couple of kinds of fruit while I cut the bread."
A few moments later the buzz of the 'conference folks' coming into the front door with the Bishop, reached the dining room. Dick with his mother's big apron on and his sleeves rolled to his elbows, went in to meet them. He spent a few moments in happy greetings with old friends whom he had not seen since his return from his mission, then he slid open the folding doors which led to the long dining room. "Dinner is all ready, people. Mother was not well, so we sent her off to Grandmother's during conference, but I hope you won't mind. I elected myself 'chief cook, and bottle washer' in her place. Of course, I can't do it up like mother, but I think there's enough to fill up on. Just help yourselves in the buffet style we practise out in the mission field. When you are through, you will find a place for your dirty dishes out in the kitchen where Phil and Ned will supply you with clean ones."
Bishop Easton stood at the head of the table and "returned thanks," and in a few moments the crowd were busily and happily following Dick's instructions.
On the last afternoon of conference, Dick permitted his mother to come home to see how his scheme had worked out. She was immediately surrounded by her visiting friends. "Sister Easton, we've missed you, of course," said the Bishop's wife from Glenville, with a dish and a dish towel in her hands, "but, I've never enjoyed a conference so much in my life. You've certainly solved the 'conference folks' problem for us all. I have grown to dread the times we have conference in Glenville. But it is so easy when things are simplified and every one lends a hand to the work, instead of sitting around feeling stiff and uncomfortable, not knowing how to help, yet knowing we ought to."
"It's not only easier, this way," remarked Bishop Marrian, of the Hooper ward, as he joined the group, "but we all have a jolly good time when we are turned loose like this, and made to feel so perfectly at home."
From the kitchen door, Dick beamed into his mother's relieved and satisfied face.
PASSING THE MUSTARD.
Even Christian Science readers will probably relish this joke from Life:
"Christian Science father (taking his boy across his knee): 'Now, Willie dear, remember that this doesn't hurt me any more than it doesn't hurt you.'"