Sary Ann's Family.
E. C. C.
It was one day in September that Sary Ann got a letter saying that her uncle Henry Pixton was dying and wanted her. She left on the next train for Palmyra and in about a week we heard that old Pixton was dead and had left Sary Ann a fortune. You may be sure the news made quite a stir in Fern Heights, and we were all busy guessing what Sary Ann would do with her money.
Well, we didn't see nor hear anything of her for about a month, then one morning as I was busy a scouring my knives and forks I happened to glance out of the kitchen window and I see Sary Ann a-coming through the back gate. In a minute we were in each other's arms. You see Sary Ann and I have been friends all our lives.
After our first greeting I looked Sary Ann critically over. She gave a funny little laugh as she took the scouring cloth from my hand and sat down to my job at the kitchen table.
"Yes, it's the same old black alpaca I wore when I went away," she laughed, and I noticed a new kind of something daring in her voice.
"But your money," I said. "Your uncle left you all his money, didn't he?"
"Is that any reason why I should make a fool of myself? Every one I've met since I got home yesterday has stared at me just as you did. Did you all think I'd come back in a Harum-scarum skirt or some other tom-fool outfit?"
"But, Sary Ann, what are you going to do with your money?" I was that curious I couldn't wait any longer.
"Sally Barton says you'll donate it to the Church, and Susan Gillet is sure you'll go to Europe as soon as the war's over, and Liz Daniels says you'll build a swell house and lord it over Fern Heights the rest of your days. I tell them they're all wrong, though I don't have any guess coming myself. What are you going to do with it, Sary Ann? I'm dying to know. Have you decided yet?"
Sary Ann scrubbed so furiously on one of my thinnest spoons that I was afraid she'd wear a hole in it.
"Yes, I've decided," she said, at last, looking real defiant-like. "But I ain't told a living soul for fear of being laughed at. So I'm giving you fair warning, Marthy Mathews, not to laugh." She paused a minute and threw back her head.
"I'm going to use Uncle Pixton's money to get me a family."
I sat down and stared, hardly understanding what she meant.
"For heavens sake, Marthy, don't look like that. That's worse than laughing." She stopped scouring and looked me square in the face and began talking fast like a lawyer arguing his plea.
"And why shouldn't I have a family? You have one. Every woman in Fern Heights has one, and I'm just as good as any of you. I'm just as good a cook. I love children just as much and know just as much about taking care of them, and a sight more than most of you did when you got your first ones. I'd make just as good a mother as any woman in this town."
She stopped as if giving me a chance to refute what she had said, but I knew it was all true, and besides I was still dumbfounded. Pretty soon she went on.
"Why should I be deprived of a woman's right to a family just because when the rest of you were being courted I was a big, awkward, bashful girl and no one picked me out for a wife."
You see, Sary Ann wasn't popular with the boys when we were girls. I reckon the only beau she ever had was Lem Peters and he was bigger and clumsier than she, and left Fern Heights when he was still a boy, and went to Mexico.
Sary Ann went on, still defiant-like.
"I'm not blaming the men. It ain't them I want. It's a family. I want little children to feed and dress and cuddle just like any other woman. I want children of my own. You can't know how it is to envy every mother you see."
"But, Sary Ann," I finally managed to say, "you surely don't know a thing about mother-love, or you'd know that all the money in the world couldn't buy one little scrap of a baby."
Sary Ann laughed that queer little laugh again. "Bless your heart, Marthy, I know I couldn't buy one from a real mother like you; but for all that, ain't the world full of poor, little homeless waifs who need a mother and a home just as much as I need a family?"
I saw that she was very much in earnest, so I asked her how she was going to manage it.
"Well, I'm going to build a big, plain, comfortable home on my south forty, then I'm going to advertise for my family."
"Why, Sary Ann Dickson, you must be crazy," I told her. "Don't you know that will only bring all the riff-raff in the country to your door?"
"Oh, I'll reserve the right to choose my posterity," Sary Ann answered, as calm as you please. "And if I don't make a better choice than some folks do, I'll be ashamed of myself."
"I'm going to have a real family," she went on. "Not an up-to-date, fashionable family where one or two little chicks have to wander lonesome around a big house, being cheated out of the brothers and sisters they ought to have. There are going to be big sisters and little sisters and middle-sized sisters and big brothers and little brothers and brothers that go between and babies—O Marthy, you don't suppose I could find twin babies?" Sary Ann's face fairly glowed. "I'm afraid I'd wear one out, I want to cuddle it so much."
"But the worry, and the work, and the responsibility," I reminded her.
"And the satisfaction, and the joy," Sary Ann ended for me, with a smile that transfigured her plain face.
Well, the next week the big, white home began to go up on Sary Ann's south forty. As soon as it was finished she did what she said she was going to do. She hung out a sign: "Wanted: A Family. For particulars call inside."
"I know," she confided to me, "there'll be lots of applicants I can't take, for I'm advertising in the newspapers as well. It will be hard, turning them off, but I'll see that something is done for them."
Well, the day the sign was put out Sary Ann's would-be family began to arrive, and after that there was a stream of them. They came from grey-haired men and blear-eyed tramps, to new-born babes. Sary Ann, unruffled and good-natured, passed upon them all.
The Irish widow who came with her nine children, she established in the old cottage on her upper forty, and gave them work. The dozen or more cripples she sent to proper institutions where they received needed care and treatment at her expense. The score of the feeble men and women she took to the old people's home. After picking out her own "flesh and blood" from the mob of urchins who beset her, she sent the ones not elected, away, each one happier and better off than before the interview.
In about two months Sary Ann had her family completed. There were the Parker sisters, Ruth and Agnes, sixteen and eighteen years old; Polly Needham, about ten; Florence Giles, a little younger and cunning little Bessie Ferris, whom some one sent from a distant city. Then there was Tom Ainsworth, most grown, who was a kind of invalid. He was the son of Sary Ann's Uncle Pixton's housekeeper, who died suddenly. And there was Jess Meekem and Billy Stubbs and Vernie Dobson, ranging in ages from two to ten. She didn't find twin babies, but she took poor Mrs. Finnigan's two little ones, when she died, and goodness knows they were near enough of an age. Besides these, she adopted old lady Ballinger for a grandmother for her family. She said she thought every child needed the sweet influence of a grandmother.
Well, I never in my life saw a happier mother than Sary Ann. She got to be really beautiful. It was a good sight to see her bustling and singing about that fine big homey home, directing her happy family. They all idolised her, and I don't blame them.
About a year after Sary Ann adopted her children, Fern Heights was surprised one day to see Lem Peters strolling about the streets again. He had been all over the world, it seemed, and had come back to ask Sary Ann to marry him. They were married on Thanksgiving day, and it's a sight to bless your eyes to pass the big home and see them sitting out on the porch enjoying that adopted family.