Current Topics.
James H. Anderson.
The Jewish relief fund received liberal subscriptions in Utah, where anti-Semitic prejudice has less hold on the people than almost anywhere else.
In Mexico, since the present troubles began there, 112 Americans have been killed, the murderers being punished in only two or three instances.
General Villa, the Mexican revolutionist, bandit and rebel, continues on the warpath, with no certainty when his killing and plundering activities will cease.
The "Lusitania" case between the United States and Germany developed into a long haggle about passenger ships being armed for defensive purposes, and final settlement appears to be in the far, dim distance.
Josephus Daniels, United States secretary of the navy, has forbidden naval officers to talk on war preparedness. Whether the gag is applied because these officers know too little or too much is not stated.
The Uintah basin in Utah is to have direct railway communication with Salt Lake City in the near future—so railway officials say. The line will be a vital factor in developing that part of the State.
Lindley M. Garrison, United States secretary of war, had agreed with President Wilson upon a program for the increase of the army; then the President went on a speaking tour and returned with a change of program, whereupon Mr. Garrison, not being able to assent to the alterations, promptly resigned.
Persistent nagging and faultfinding on the part of a wife has been decreed by the Utah Supreme Court to be a sufficient cause for divorce. The rule, however, fits that kind of a husband, too.
The Italian army has made slight progress against the Austrians the past month, in the European war zone, but the situation as between those two belligerents presages little change for some time to come.
Ex-Governor Sulzer, of New York, advocates the placing of a tax of $1,000 per gallon on whisky. Instead of absurd "playing to the galleries," why not be sensible and eliminate whisky beverages entirely? It's the only method worth while.
Aerial raids from Teutonic sources give much worry to the entente allies. Only in France do German airships seem to encounter much danger of being brought down by the fire of guns on terra firma.
Mildred Marek, six years old, was killed by being struck over the heart by a baseball, while some boys were playing in a yard at Nampa, Idaho—one more victim to ball playing by boys in the vicinity where little children are wont to gather.
Dr. John A. Widtsoe has been selected as president of the University of Utah, and Dr. E. G. Peterson as president of the Agricultural College of Utah. Both are very capable men for the positions to which they have been elected.
Lynchings in the United States, in 1915, included four persons whom later developments proved were innocent of the crimes charged. More than ever each year this calls for the stern curbing hand of the law against such mobocracy.
Preparedness for war on the part of the United States continues to be a debatable policy, in degree rather than in essentials. Many leaders of thought throughout the country seem to feel that readiness for war means the development of an uncontrollable desire to engage in armed conflict.
The "Mormon" Church appropriation for its church schools for 1916 amounts to $303,000; this comes from the tithing of the Saints, which also furnishes funds for the support of the poor, and thus the money goes back through beneficial channels to the people.
O. N. Hilton, the lawyer who became notorious in the case of Murderer Hillstrom, says that "Mormonism" "is the vilest thing in national life today—the admitted menace to everything worth preserving." Like other persons grossly unclean in word and deed, Hilton evidently feels that everyone who does not bow to his aims should be destroyed.
President Joseph F. Smith and Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley departed in the latter part of February for Hawaii, to direct the laying of the cornerstone of a Temple of the Lord in those islands—a gratifying development in the progress of the gospel among the people there.
Minimum wage laws in Massachusetts, especially for women, are shown by the statistics of 1914 and 1915 to have increased the ranks of the unemployed, from the fact that many workers were not sufficiently efficient to earn the minimum wage required by business conditions and consequently were dismissed, only the more efficient, trained workers being given employment.
Winter floods in the United States, outside of the Rocky Mountain region, caused considerable loss of life and property. The most serious calamity was in the Otay and San Luis Rey valleys, California, where 65 lives were lost, 3,000 people rendered homeless, and over $2,000,000 in property destroyed.
The European war's most notable development since the first of this year has been the Russian victories over the Turks and south of the Black Sea, and in the Asiatic arena, to the east extending toward a juncture with the British and French forces that will cut off Syria from Turkish dominion. The "sick man of Europe" seems about to receive a fatal thrust from the Asiatic side.
Louis D. Brandeis, a Boston attorney, was nominated by President Wilson to fill the vacancy in the United States Supreme Court. Immediately thereafter, a strong protest went up, and the Senate judiciary committee held an investigation. The objection to Lawyer Brandeis was in effect that he was an extreme radical whose appointment would be a menace to the public weal and that he had been guilty of unprofessional conduct in his law practice. That he is a Jew also adds to his unpopularity with narrow-minded people.
The Canadian parliament house at Ottawa has been destroyed by fire, and several war munition factories, both in Canada and in the United States, have been burned recently under circumstances which cause a belief that destruction is the work of agents of the European Teutonic allies. Taken in connection with the fact that the Federal grand jury at San Francisco found 32 indictments in February against German consular officials for alleged violations of neutrality laws, the presumed Teutonic offensiveness on this side of the Atlantic seems to be quite extensive.
Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman.
Annual Conference. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society will be held April 4th and 5th, 1916. On Tuesday, April 4th, two general sessions will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, meetings commencing at 10:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m. All Relief Society officers and members are invited to be in attendance. On Wednesday two meetings will be held for officers, in the Auditorium on the Fourth Floor of the Bishop's Building. Matters of vital importance to officers will be discussed at these two sessions. All officers are urged to be present.
Special Meetings. On Saturday, April 8th, two special meetings will be held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, the morning session commencing at 10:00 a. m. will be in charge of the committee on Obstetrics and Nursing and Public Health. Topics will be given on the Care of the Mother and Child and Emergencies. The work in Public Health for the summer months will be outlined and discussed. The afternoon session, commencing at 2 o'clock will be devoted to Home Economics. This meeting will be in charge of the Home Economics Committee, and the following subjects will be discussed: Household Wastes and How to Prevent Them, Co-operative Housekeeping. These topics are outlined to be given in the regular lessons in May and June, in the various ward organisations.
Relief Society Books. The books for secretaries and treasurers have at last been mailed out to the stake presidents for distribution to the wards. The price of the secretaries' book is $1.75, and that of the treasurer is $1.25. Bills for the books will be mailed to the stake presidents. These books will not be carried by the book stores. Extra copies may be obtained, by sending orders to the General Secretary, Room No. 29, Bishop's Building.
Farm and Home Conventions. The Farm and Home Convention held in Logan, from January 24th to February 5th, was a success in every particular. The attendance in the Home Economics Department was especially large. Great interest in this department is no doubt due mainly to the fact that the Relief Society has taken an active interest in this work. Most of the stakes adjacent to Logan were represented, and many of those at a distance sent delegates. The lessons, as outlined in the Relief Society Home Economics Course, were presented and discussed for the special benefit of our workers. Many other subjects of interest to home-makers were considered, the demonstrations and other special features being particularly attractive. The General Board was represented at the convention by Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde, chairman of the Home Economics Committee, and Miss Sarah Eddington, also a member of the same committee. Every ward in the Benson stake was represented at the Home Convention at Logan, the Stake Committee was also in attendance. Mrs. Ella Bassett, the capable secretary of Deseret stake, travelled all the way from Delta to Logan, to take advantage of the Roundup. Mrs. James Paxman of Nephi was also in attendance as a representative of the Juab stake.
In a letter from Prof. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Idaho Technical Institute, we learn that the Home Convention in Pocatello, Idaho, was successful beyond all expectation. The attendance was good throughout, and was greatly augmented by the presence of representatives of the Relief Society organisation, who were shown every courtesy in the way of special instruction in their particular line of work, as well as in a general way.
Genealogy. Genealogical report given at the Liberty Stake Relief Society Conference by Annie Lynch, Stake Supervisor of Genealogy and Temple Work for the Relief Society: "In making the report on Genealogy and Temple work for the past year, we congratulate the sisters of Liberty stake on the excellent record made. The roll of attendance at our stake Temple days shows that 1,033 days have been spent in Temple work. This is donation work, the lists being furnished by the wards, in turn, of those who cannot do their own work, or who are not financially able to hire it. This represents an attendance of 400 individuals, including a number of the younger sisters. We are delighted to have these younger women join with us. Our Temple work has been a united labour of love, and all have been blessed. We are gratified with the results. This year we have two objects. First, to continue our donation work; second, to encourage and assist, if necessary, those who have not already taken up their own lines. Charity begins at home, and our first duty is to our own kindred. The lessons have been fairly successful. The class leaders deserve great credit for their untiring efforts. The cards filled out each month show an increased attendance and interest. Committees have been appointed in most of the wards to take up the living Records."
Magazines. The supply of January, February, and March Magazines is exhausted. As there are many new subscribers who are particularly anxious to obtain copies of these numbers, we shall be pleased to purchase a limited number of these copies from subscribers who care to dispose of them.
Mrs. Alfred Guehm of Logan writes the Magazine: "I have just received the February number of the Relief Society Magazine, and I think that alone is worth $1.00."
Northern States Mission. In a report from Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, President of the Relief Society of the Northern States, we learn that there are now twenty Relief Society organisations in this Mission, all doing excellent work. Mrs. Ellsworth has recently been on a tour through the Mission, and is very much gratified with conditions in general. During the year of 1915, there were sixteen societies, eleven of them only one year old. The total enrollment was 276, with an average attendance of 175. Several of the societies have made a practice of holding work meetings on the afternoon of meeting day at the home of the President, and a theology meeting at the home of an investigator, making two meetings in the same day.
In the Winnipeg Society there are twenty-two enrolled members, with an average attendance of twenty-four women. This large attendance was due to the fact that many friends of the members have attended the meetings to assist in preparing clothing for the Canadian soldiers. This work continued as long as the Government could supply material, since that time the Society has turned its attention to the making of children's clothing, which has been given to the needy or has been sold at nominal prices to those who are able to pay for it.
In Milwaukee, there are now two Relief Society organisations, a German society and an English society, with about twenty-five members in each. In the past, these members have all met together, but because of the fact that many of them cannot speak and understand English, it was thought best to make two organisations. It is very fortunate that one of the missionary girls in Milwaukee speaks the German language. She has been appointed to act as class teacher in this Society. Her companion is acting in the same capacity in the English branch.
In this Mission, the Relief Society has established 106 genealogical records, and 104 family records. They have sent in 511 names to the St. George Temple for baptism, and 36 for ordinance work; 1,127 Church magazines have been distributed, and 2,706 tracts; $713.68 has been distributed for charity, $318.36 for general purposes, and they have a balance on hand of $266.61. This Mission has sent in 161 subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, and have recently placed $168 with the Presiding Bishop's Office for a wheat fund.