The program for the Utah Day was as follows: DEMONSTRATION OF CLASS INSTRUCTION IN GENEALOGY. Tuesday, July 27th, 1915 10 a. m. Invocation Lesson: (a) Sources of Information (b) Methods of Recording 2 p. m. Lesson: (a) Approximation of Dates (b) Numbering (c) Work in the Library Instructors: Nephi Anderson Mrs. Susa Young Gates EVENING PROGRAM. Invocation Dr. Emmeline B. Wells President National Woman's Relief Society Address of Welcome Anthon H. Lund President Genealogical Society of Utah Address: Utah as a Melting Pot Joseph F Smith, Jr. Secretary-Treasurer Genealogical Society of Utah Pioneer Reminiscences President Joseph F. Smith Historical Sketch of the Genealogical Society of Utah Chas. W. Penrose Vice-President Genealogical Society of Utah Song "O Ye Mountains High" Emma Lucy Gates Report of Genealogical Extension Work in the Relief Society Elizabeth C McCune Benediction Heber J. Grant The evening session was marked by a crowded house. Many strangers and friends unable to get chairs, stood through the whole of the program. The full proceedings will be printed in the Utah Genealogical Magazine. Pioneer Reminiscences, by President Joseph F. Smith, were replete with vivid incidents and attractive stories. President Lund presided in his own dignified and gracious manner, which encompassed every one present with its genial radiance. President Penrose gave a succinct and interesting history of the Utah Genealogical Society, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune read with completeness and satisfaction the report of the extension work in the Relief Society, which rounded out the program. The singing of Emma Lucy Gates was, as always, beautiful and appropriate. Few of our even ordinary vocalists would do what this great singer did that night— sing without any accom
 paniment of piano or instrument. Her reputation artistically and morally did not suffer from her generous action. The International Congress of Genealogy which opened the next morning in the same hall was crowded and enthusiastic. The Address of Welcome given by President Henry Byron Phillips, and responded to by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., was peculiarly interesting to us. Utah was honored in the choice of our young apostle, and he rose supremely to the occasion; while we felt that California was likewise honored in the apt and happy choice of him. The program for the Congress will be printed in its entirety in the Utah Genealogical Magazine. Among the very notable papers presented during the three meetings of the Congress was one on Chinese Genealogy, by Kiang Shao Chuan Kang-Hu, a cultured Chinese of the California University. It was a marvelous unfolding of the conditions concerning pedigrees and genealogical keeping amongst this little known, and yet ancient people. Going back 6,000 or 8,000 years, pedigrees are religiously kept by all families of the better classes. The genealogist is chosen from the clan once in thirty years, and is maintained by his labors. He keeps and records each birth, death and marriage of the whole clan. Twelve hundred years before Christ each head of clan was compelled to frame a verse. The members of that clan all took the first word of that verse as a middle name. The second generation all took the second word, the third generation the third, and so on down. That explains why nearly all Chinamen are "cousins." One can tell the clan and the generation of any particular Chinaman if one knows his clan verse. Surnames were given much as in America. Two other papers which discovered vast possibilities of genealogical import in strange peoples were those on the Hawaiian and Maori races. Another deeply interesting paper was the Relation of Eugenics to Genealogy by the editor of the Eugenics Magazine. The closing paper was given by Frank L. Wilcox on the "Relation of Genealogy to Human Affairs," and this too was interesting and full of suggestions. The Congress took upon itself the permanent title of the International Genealogical Federation, after much discussion and comment. Another action was the decision to make the Utah Genealogical Magazine for October the official number for the Congress. Therein will be printed all of the proceedings and papers in full, illustrated with the pictures of the Congress. Two standing committees were formed — one on Permanent Organization and the other on Legislative Action. Utah was represented on these, as on all other committees. Mr. Joseph INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 395 F. Smith, Jr., and Mrs. Susa Young Gates were both given places in the temporary and permanent committees. One of the most striking and interesting events in connection with our Congress was the presentation by the Fair officials, of bronze medals to President Anthon H. Lund, who represented the Genealogical Society of Utah, and to President Emmeline B. Wells who represented the Relief Society. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells was in her tenderest mood; she told of the fact that the very first carload of flour which reached stricken San Francisco eight years ago came from the Relief Society of Utah. Another carload sped to the Mississippi sufferers, and one to distant China. Large sums and supplies had been sent to England recently. The touching quality and pathos of Mrs. Wells' remarks brought tears to the eyes of Commissioner Chas. A. Vogelsang. MEDAL PRESENTED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY. President Lund referred to the work of the Utah Genealogical Society. He tactfully told the commissioner that the "Mormon" people had raised about $37,000 in one day's contribution, which was distributed to our poor, without discrimination, in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, France and Great Britain. The presentation ceremonies took place Thursday afternoon at 4:30, in the reception room of the Utah Building. Several family reunions were held during the Utah week — 
 in particular the Kimball Family, which was interesting and delightful. There is a large Kimball Association in California, of several hundred members who meet frequently to read papers, and enjoy social intercourse. At their meeting in the Inside Inn, they were presented with a bronze medal, by the Fair officials. A number of informal talks were made, and original poems read. Mrs. Susa Young Gates was invited to speak in behalf of the Kimball Family of Utah, and she delineated the lofty characteristics, the high courage, the genial humor and wit, the companionable quality of the characters of the Kimballs of Utah, giving greeting to California in behalf of the many descendants of that great pioneer — Heber Chase Kimball. REVERSE SIDE OF THE MEDAL PRESENTED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The Frost, Rice, Starr and Young families held gatherings during this week, as well as the Jewetts, and other family lines. A number of luncheons were given for the Utah people. A beautiful auto trip was tendered by Miss Carlie Inez Tomlinson, who is the charming Corresponding Secretary of the Congress, to President Emmeline B. Wells, Susa Young Gates, and Mrs. Lora A. W. Underhill of Boston. The circuit of San Francisco and Golden Gate Park was made in this trip. Mrs. Janette A. INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 397 Hyde was entertained at luncheon by the Presidential Party, August 1st, in the Palace Hotel. A luncheon was given by Mr. George J. Jewett to the delegates of the New England Genealogical Society, and Mrs. Lora A. W. Underhill, Mr. Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and Susa Young Gates occupied one table at this luncheon. Thursday evening the Congress was received by the California Genealogical Society in the Red Room of the Fairmont Hotel. The beautiful rooms were decorated with tropical flowers, and refreshments were served. All of the officials were in the receiving line, and our Utah party were happy in meeting in social converse the guests and officials present. An interesting feature of the event was the exhibit of the California Genealogical Society in the library of the hotel. The exhibit was not large — all of the former collections being destroyed in the San Francisco fire, eight years ago. The quality and rarity of many of the books and charts attracted universal attention. Among those whose names should be engraved upon the tablets of memory, and written in the history of this wonderful Congress, should appear first, President Henry Byron Phillips, than whom, no more courteous gentleman, better official, and more scholarly author took part in the proceedings. Next would be named Mr. Ora E. Monnette, whose magnetic personality and splendid organizing ability focused action and promoted system and order. Dr. Alvin Plummer was an inspiration to all who were privileged to listen to him, or meet him in private intercourse. Hon. Boutwell Dunlap possesses a fund of scholarly information, and a quality of enthusiasm which carried conviction, and won his point for him nearly every time. Mention should be made of Mr. Thos. Edward Bond, Treasurer of the Congress, who successfully met all calls upon his commandeering ability. The real gem of the assembly was brilliant, delightful, modest little Sarah Louise Kimball, the Corresponding Secretary of the California Genealogical Society, who was eyes, ears, and hands of the Congress from beginning to end. Mr. Frank H. Pettingell of Los Angeles, the permanent Chairman of the Congress, presided with a vigor and grace that won admiration from all sides. Miss Carlie Inez Tomlinson who was the organizing secretary of the Congress is fair to look upon, and exceedingly intelligent and gracious. Mrs. Walter Damon Mansfield, a lady in her own right, was a capable representative of the Society of London Genealogists. She was both handsome and dignified. Mr. Chas. Edward Heald made a brilliant secretary and ably seconded the chairman in expediting work and keeping the snap and sparkle in the daily programs. Saturday, July 31st, was a day set apart for the International Genealogical Federation to receive their badge from 
 the Panama-Pacific Exposition officials, and although but few of our party were present, the remarks of President Henry Byron Phillips, in accepting the badge, should be recorded here: "The preservation of family history is more than a mere collection of names for the purpose of forming a pedigree. It has come to be regarded as one of the most important parts of the history of a people. The historian realizes that the genealogical history of the people is an important portion of modern history. Genealogy is a guide to right living. No man knows himself so well but that he may learn more by scanning the lives of his progenitors. "Looking at the subject in a lofty way, the study of genealogy teaches us so to live and develop latent forces for good that we may be able to make our ancestors famous as the progenitors of illustrious men and women." The Utah party left San Francisco that same morning, augmented by nearly a hundred friends and associates who accompanied us on the trip to San Diego Fair. The first stop made by the Utah Party was at the Big Trees, our train being switched off on a side-track, which took us right to the Big Trees themselves. One-half hour was spent hurrying around the vast enclosure which contains so many of these marvelous trees of the primeval forest. Learning that the great people who have passed that way, have had trees named for them, the party united in a request to have a tree named Emmeline B. Wells, and it was done. There are trees named after Grant, Sheridan, Lincoln, Roosevelt, and nearly all of the famous people of the United States. From here, we were taken to Santa Cruz, which is directly on the ocean; and here we found a pavilion on the shore, with many of the features of Saltair attractions, on a smaller scale. The Beach was beautiful, and some of our party went in bathing. But that which pleased us most was the attention paid to our party by the ladies' clubs and the Commercial Club of that fair city. The ladies brought tubfuls of flowers and presented each of our party with an immense bouquet of gladiolas, geraniums, Shasta daisies, gardenias, etc. The Commercial Club sent down postal cards for everybody, with some of the charming scenes of the town thereon. We were very grateful for this courtesy, and shall ever remember Santa Cruz as one of the brightest spots in our travels. Arriving in Los Angeles early in the morning, most of the party were taken to the headquarters of our Mission, where everybody was made welcome. The party gathered in the Church for morning service, and several of the most noted visitors spoke to the Assembly. INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 399 Sunday evening, we again boarded the train, landing in San Diego early next morning. The Fair was our goal, and while this beautiful exhibit is not equal to the vast one at San Francisco, still everything was highly interesting and satisfactory — especially were we pleased with the Utah Exhibit, and building at this Fair. Instead of being simply a place where friends are received and registered, this building contains agricultural exhibits of the highest class. It is conceded that no fruit from any state equals in size or flavor that grown in Utah. We met Miss Littlefield, and Mrs. Ellis, who are hostesses of the building; and they were very gracious and cordial to all of our party. Some of the party rode out to Coronado Beach, and enjoyed an hour's ocean bathing. Those who were not venturesome enough to go into the water, wandered on the Beach, gathering shells, and some even pulled off their shoes and stockings and waded in the ocean. Others went to the fine old hacienda, known as Ramona; this place was most interesting, not only as the romantic spot where Ramona was married to her young lover, but because of the many relics of ancient times, which have been preserved here. The old stage coach, old bed, chairs, tables, and all sorts of utensils and dishes, were interesting indeed, while the growth of tropical trees and flowers in the court was a picture in itself. Taking the train that evening, we reached Los Angeles early on the morning of August 3. Here the party were taken in seeing cars all through the beach towns of Santa Monica, Venice, Long Beach, and other suburbs of Los Angeles. When the train left the Los Angeles depot, at 4 o'clock p. m., we had lost about half of our party, some of whom remained over for a day or two, others for longer, perhaps. We were loth to part with our friends, but reached San Francisco early on the morning of August 4th. The party were taken at once across the city to the ferry station, where they boarded one of the Southern Pacific steamers, which ply up the Sacramento River, daily. The ride was cool and delightful, and a new experience for some of the travelers. In the afternoon they all gathered on one side of the deck, and sang hymns and original rhymes, with considerable wit and humor shown in the wording thereof. That evening at midnight, the party were once more taken aboard cars at Sacramento, and the trip for the mountains began. The next day being the last day, a great deal of innocent fun was projected, and carried through by the musicians and fun makers of the crowd. The day was perhaps the pleasantest of all which occurred on the trip, and all who were privileged to be present, enjoyed the happy spirit of the occasion with whole hearts. The early morning of August 6, saw the party stationed in 
 Salt Lake City, where goodbyes were said, and the last hour of the voyage had passed into memory. The account of this trip would not be complete without the mention of the gentleman who had charge of the traveling arrangements, and who accompanied the party everywhere — Mr. Charles L. McFaul, who is the district freight and passenger agent of the Southern Pacific Railway; he left no stone unturned to give happiness and pleasure to those under his care. His familiarity with California and its history and his willngness to give information at all times were highly appreciated by all. His handsome young son was an attractive feature of the latter part of the trip, for his gentlemanly solicitude and his courteous assistance were the exact duplication of his father. Mr. McFaul's assistant — Mr. Maurice Tanner — is one of our were "Mormon" own of valuable boys, and his assistance untiring to all courtesy and efficient zeal concerned. It is a remarka1)le thing that all three of the Presidents of the Church were present at this Congress, and took part therein. Likewise, there were Apostles Heber J. Grant, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Dr. James E. Talmage, Bishop Chas. W. Nibley. All of these, with their wives, constituted a bulwark of strength and power unparalleled in like occasions. President Emmeline B. Wells, and President Joseph F. Smith were both with us. It would seem that she and President Joseph F. Smith are the last two links between the founding of this Church, in official relations, and the present time. Both were in Nauvoo when the Prophet Joseph instituted the practice of baptism for the dead, and Mrs. Wells took part in that initial ceremony in the Mississippi river. President Emmeline B. Wells enjoyed every moment of her trip, went everywhere that anybody else went, saw everything that anybody else saw. and put to the blush many of the younger members of the party. with her faithfulness and her untiring activity. One of the pleasant features of the evening session for Utah Day, was the visit of Mrs. Kate Waller Barratt, President of the National Council of Women, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, biographer of Susan B. Anthony, and one of the greatest women journalists in America; Mrs. Johnson, the sculptor, who has modeled most of the great women of America. These ladies attended the service in order to pay their respects to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, and Mrs. Gates, and to listen to [Miss Emma Lucy Gates sing. No finer, more intelligent company ever left this state. They were truly representative. It was indeed a goodly company. The following members were present in the party: President Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Lizzie Felt, Mrs. Lillian INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 401 Knight, Miss Edith Smith, Miss Emily Smith, Miss Carrie Patrick, Miss Elizabeth Patrick, Miss Florence Ivins, Miss Augusta Ivins, Miss Golda Hyde, Miss Sarah Burton, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss Sarah McLelland, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Miss Phoebe Harding, Miss Prudence Brown, Miss Edna M. Wadsworth, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McDonald, Mrs. Harriett Leatham, Miss Leatham, Mrs. John Henry Evans and daughter. Miss Ida Felt, Miss Florence Harrington, Miss Jennie Harrington, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Mr. Jacob F. Gates, Miss Annie Lynch, Miss Etta Smith, Mrs. Jane Jennings Eldridge, Miss Luetta Brown, Mrs. Elizabeth Brown, Mrs. Emily W. Stockdale, Mrs. J. C. Edwards, Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Siddoway, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Christenson, Miss Lillian Cameron, Miss Brown, Miss Baird, Mr. Jas. Duckworth, Mr. and Mrs. Nephi Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Mr. Wm. R. Jones, Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones, Mrs. P. P. Musser, Mr. Wayne Musser, Mr. and Mrs. Fred A. Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Symons, Miss Symons, Mr. Frederick Scholes, Logan; Mrs. W. T. Jack, Mrs. Bates, Mrs. Neilson, Mrs. Priscilla Worthington, Miss Stella P. James, Mrs. Emma Sharp, Mrs. Frank Tribes, Mr. and Mrs. D. Jensen, Miss Pauline Sevey, Panguitch, Utah; Miss Dodd, Miss Stella Judd, Panguitch, Utah; Miss Lefever, Miss Caroline Scholes, Logan; Miss Elizabeth Wilson, Mrs. S. A. Sewell, Mrs. Mary Holt, Mrs. Rosetta Shaw, Mrs. Mercy R. Stevens, Ogden; Miss Catherine Wilson, Miss Sarah Wilson, Miss Effie Kent, Miss Barker, Mrs. Vincey R. Barker, Mrs. Clara M. T. Bartholomew, Bountiful, Utah; Mr. Jos. Hubbard, Mrs. J. Y. Robbins, Miss Alice Robbins, Mrs. R. M. Porcher, Mrs. Stookey, Miss Stookey, Bybee, Adamson, Miss Mrs. Caldwell, Mr. and Miss George T. Mrs. Caldwell, Mrs. Mr. Benson, L. Robert Mr. Hayward, Hayward, Mrs. Pugsley, Mrs. Ada Pingree, Mrs. Mary Ellen Keller, Mrs. Jennie Keller, Mrs. Lucy M. Cutler, Mrs. Phoebe McNeil. Mrs. Nancy Beckstead, Mrs. Lele Beckstead, Mrs. Amy C. Bailif, Miss Letitia Paul, Mrs. Mary Jones, Miss May Reid, Mrs. Hart, Miss Maud Johnson, Miss Maggie Salomon, Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Lambert, Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Jenkins, Mr. J. A. Wadsworth, Mrs. A. J. Pendelton, Miss Pendelton, Mr. John Duckworth, Miss Goddard, Miss Emma Evans, Mrs. Lucy Rice, Miss L. Reiser, Mrs. Margaret Reiser, Miss Bateman,. Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Call, Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Rogers, Mrs. Ida Clark, Mr. Bussman, Miss L. Snow, Miss Crosby, Mrs. Elida Snow, Mrs. Artemesia Seegmiller, Miss Anna Snow, Mr. H. B. Parish, Mr. T. F. Howells, Mrs. Sarah Freidal, Mrs. J. W. Hoops, Miss Catherine Sorenson, Lago, Idaho; Mr. James Blake, Miss Ada Johnson, Miss Vina Johnson, 
 Mr. Parish, Mrs. Parish, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Symons, Mrs. Aroetta H. Holgate, Miss Cecilia G. Stead, Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Wilson, Mr. J. T, Peterson, Miss Eliza Hanson, Miss A. Jensen, Mrs. Rose Neally, Mrs. A. Standing, Mrs. N. Jensen, Mr. Julian Burton, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Tanner, Mr. and Mrs. C. L. McFaul, Mr. Donald McFaul, Miss. Irene McFaul, Mr. and Mrs. Mark Austin, son and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Jos. Webb, St. George, Utah; Miss M. Broadhead, Mr. David Broadhead, Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Heisell, Mrs. Eva Curleox, Mrs. Mars, Miss Carrie Allen, Mrs. Sarah Houston, Mr. Jas. P. Peterson, Miss Martha Evans, Miss Elizabeth Thompson, Mr. Parley Redd, Mr. H. H. Rudd, Miss Ruth Jones, Miss Nettie Perkins, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Mrs. Manning, Mrs. Mary Jones, Mrs. Hilda H. Larson, Mrs. Marie Goff, Mrs. C. L Goff, Miss Sabina Goff, Mrs. A. Egbert, Mrs. A. Despain, Mrs. C. Miller, Mrs. Mary A. Orgall, Riverton, Utah; Mrs. Caroline B. Sadler, Mrs. Ella Peterson, Mr. Jos. Boddell, Mrs. Sarah Boddell, Mrs. Sarah J. Butterfield, Harriman, Utah; Mrs. Pearl Butterfield, Miss M. Bateman, Mrs. Sadie Neils, Mrs. Hazel Malestrom, Mrs. W. B. Ennis, Mrs. Agnes Merrill, Miss Merrill, Miss Wilson, Mr. Chas. Egenberger, Mr. Duncan Park, Mr. and Mrs. James A. Wakeley, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, Mr. Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. A. Prahl, Mrs. Porter, Mrs. Katie E. Dixon, Manard, Idaho; Mrs. Unity Chappell, Mrs. Cecelia Steed Chuger, Mrs. Eliza Nielson, Mrs. Victoria Elvin, Mrs. Carrie Johnson, Mrs. Louisa Bates, Ann E. Lyman, Oak City, Utah; Miss Mamie J. Dodds, Panguitch, Utah; Mrs. Carrie Johnson, Union, Utah; Caroline B. Sadler, Mabel Excell, Panguitch, Miss Ann Nebeker, Mrs. Agnes Merrill, Ellen D. Bateman, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Turner, Mrs. Rosetta Shaw, Ogden, Utah; Fern Goddard, Provo, Utah; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Timms, Mrs. Emily Ennis, Miss Pearl Burton, and Edna Wadsworth. The resolution which was passed, as a basis for a permanent international organization of societies, associations, and individuals interested in genealogy, named these three objects for the Federation: A — Preservation and publication of historical and genealogical records. B — Procurement of legislation to establish system of collecting and maintaining vital statistics and records, both national and local. C — Establishment of a national or international bureau of heraldry for the registration of pedigrees, coats-of-arms, etc. What wider scope, what broader foundation, could be given to any movement? Truly, we look with high hope into the future of the International Genealogical Federation. The "Selfishness'' of Jacob and Rachel By Nephi Anderson, author of "Added Upon." His name was Johan Jacob Henri Sweizermann; and hers was Maria Rachel Ellen Brown. As this is somewhat of a genealogical story, I would better give the data in the case as correctly as possible. I'll tell about him first. J. J. H. Sweizermann, commonly known to us as Jacob, was born in Schleswig-Holstein in 1855, of Danish-German parentage. His wife died before he came to this country, about ten years ago. He has no children. Up to three years ago, he lived in Southern Utah, where his Danish-German thrift brought him means enough so that he could come to the city and devote the remainder of his life to temple work. Jacob was not wealthy, be it understood. He lived by himself. His wants were few, and his life was the essence of simplicity. When he paid his first visit to the office of the Genealogical Society he brought with him quite an extended record which he had obtained by many years of effort. In his timid, quiet way, and his broken English, he explained that he wanted help with his record — he wanted to begin work in the temple for his people, and would we help him to get started? He would be glad to pay us for assistance. We enrolled him as a life member in the Society, took into our keeping his record, made out some temple sheets for him, and gave him the instructions needed for him to get started. For profuse He was his thanks a year in Jacob we had us done. for what visited Sweizermann regularly, about once a week, to get names and to make a deposit on a fund which he had to pay for assistance in the female line of his work. He had no relatives, he stated, and he was compelled to get others to help him, and for this he was very willing to pay the trifling sum required. Jacob was what is termed a "character." He always came into the office with a smile on his ruddy, smooth-shaven face. A perfect peace seemed to have taken complete possession of him. He was oblivious to all things about him, except the work in hand. "I am so thankful," he would usually say, and we came to understand that he meant a great deal by this — thankful that the Lord had directed him through the various walks of life and had at last led him to this land and this city where there is a temple in which he might do a really unselfish work. 
 Things went on placidly with Brother Jacob for about a year. Then one day he came into the office without the smile. asked. "Good morning, Brother, what is the matter?" I instinctively He sat down, and twirled his hat nervously in his hands. He could not speak for a moment. Then he said, "It is very bad — very bad. I haf money no longer. I must go home." The old man brushed away a tear from his face. We listened to him patiently, and showed our genuine sympathy. It seems that someone not so honest as he had defrauded him, and he would have to cease his temple work and go home to straighten out things, if he could. We expressed our regrets and hoped he would soon return. He was gone a month. One afternoon just before closing time, he came panting up the steps. His hair seemed grayer and his face more deeply furrowed, but the smile was still there. We greeted him warmly. "I know you close at five," he explained, "and so I hurry to see you." "When did you get back?" "Today — just now. I couldn't wait." "And how are things at home?" "Bad, very bad — I have notings left." But Jacob was not discouraged. He had prospects of a job in the city — janitor in an apartment house. He could do his work, if he got it, and still continue his labors in the temple, he declared. We wished him success, and he smiled his thanks, as we went down stairs together. Jacob obtained his position. This was early in the spring, and the grounds about his apartment had to be looked after. He was eminently fitted for this, and so his temple work had to be somewhat neglected. However, as the warm weather came, and there was little to do in the way of firing, Jacob had more time to himself and he managed to spend three half days each week in the temple. He always came to us with his genealogical troubles. One day he said: "I haf some difficulty." "What is it?" we asked. "I need more female verkers. I haf done many mens, but my vimens go slow." We understood this very well. During the first year of his temple work he had devoted himself to the male line, thinking that later he would engage someone to help him with the females. Now, when he could least afford it, he would have to get assistance in his work. Could we recommend someone?