THE WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.
AN ADDRESS TO THE ORGANIZATIONS OF
WOMEN IN THE UNITED STATES.
	The International Council of Women, held
at Albaugh’s Opera House, Washington D. C.,
March 25 to April 1, 1888, convened by the
National Woman Suffrage Association, ad-
dressed by nearly one hundred women from
seven different countries, and representing fifty-
three national societies, was the first attempt to
unify the spirit and method of the world’s
organized womanhood. Under the nine general
topics of Education, Philanthropy, Temper-
ance, Industries, Professions, Legal Conditions,
Political Conditions, Moral Education and
Organization itself (as the essential prerequisite
of the most effective work in all these lines)—
a representative body of women took grave
counsel together, and, without one dissonant
note, the mighty chorus of harmonious pur-
pose sounded through the civilized world. It
is perfectly safe to say that never before did
the nations’ womanhood by a single demonstra-
tion so impress its thought, its sympathy and
its purpose upon the public mind. This
proved the well nigh resistless power of asso-
ciated effort. It was the harvest of forty
years spent in seed-sowing; the hour was ripe
for it; an earlier effort would have been prema-
ture, if not impossible.	
	The chief outcome of this great meeting
was a still wider evolution of woman’s work.
A permanent International Council was pro-
jected (to which none but National Councils
can be eligible as auxiliaries), and a National
Council for the United States was formed (to
which none but National Associations within
the United States can be eligible as auxiliaries).
The names of the officers of the National
Council are affixed to this address. The pur-
pose of this National Council is thus stated in
its constitution:
	“We, the women of the United States, sin-
cerely believing that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our own
greater unity of thought, sympathy and pur-
pose, and that an organized movement of
women will best conserve the highest good of
the family and the state, do hereby band our-
selves together in a confederation of workers
committed to the overthrow of all forms of
ignorance and injustice, and to the application
of the golden rule to society, custom and law.”
	The report of the committee that submitted
this constitution contains this additional state-
ment:
	“We are strongly in favor of such a federa-
tion, believing that it will incalculably increase
the world’s sum total of womanly courage,
efficiency and esprit de corps; that it will widen
our horizon, correct the tendency to an exaggera-
ted impression of one’s own work as compared
with that of others, and put the wisdom and
experience of each at the service of all.”
	The cosmopolitan character of the Council
is shown in Article II of its constitution, which
reads as follows:
	“This Council is organized in the interest of
no special propaganda, and has no power over

[Column 2]
its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and
sympathy, therefore, no society voting to be-
come auxiliary to this Council shall thereby
render itself liable to be interfered with in re-
spect to its complete organic unity, independ-
ence, or methods of work, or be committed to
any principle or method of any other society,
or to any utterance or act of the Council
itself beyond compliance with the terms of this
constitution.”
	These terms relate wholly to the conditions
of membership, which are as follows:
	“Any society of women, the nature of whose
work is satisfactory to the Executive Commit-
tee, as to either its undoubtedly national
character or national value, may become aux-
iliary to this Council by its own vote, and by
the payment of a sum amounting to half a
cent yearly per member, in addition to a trien-
nial payment of twenty-five dollars into the
treasury of the National Council, not later than
three months prior to its triennial meetings.”
	Article III reads as follows: “The officers
shall be a President, Vice-President at Large,
Corresponding Secretary, Recording Secretary,
and Treasurer. Each President of an auxiliary
society shall be exofficio Vice-President, of the
National Council, and the President of the
National Council shall be ex-officio Vice-Presi-
dent of the International Council. The five
general officers, with the Vice-Presidents, shall
constitute an Executive Committee, of which
seven members shall make a quorum, to con-
trol and provide for the general interests of the
Council.”
	The meetings of the National Council are to
be triennial, and the Committee of arrange-
ments for them is composed of the Executive
Committee and one delegate chosen by each
auxiliary society as its representative.
	This address is sent to all national organiza-
tions of women, earnestly inviting them to
become auxiliary to the Council by formal ac-
tion at their next Executive Session, to be re-
ported to our Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, Indianapolis, Ind.
	THE LEADING OBJECT OF THIS
NEW MOVEMENT is to aggregate all local
societies having the same object into national so-
cieties eligible to auxiliaryship in the National
Council of Women. For instance, the clubs
organized by women in all the leading cities
have thus far been isolated, but it is hoped
that a convention will be called within a year
to form a national federation of women’s clubs;
the influence of individual clubs would be in-
creased by coming into such a federation, and
the federation would be eligible to auxiliary-
ship in the National Council. The same is true
of the women’s protective agencies and many
other excellent societies that have been organ-
ized locally, but not as yet generally.
	It is confidently anticipated that all national
organizations of women will within the
next two years become auxiliary to the Nation-
al Council, and be ready to participate through
their representatives in the first triennial meet-
ing of the Woman’s National Council, to be
held in Washington in the spring of 1891.
	We also suggest the unification of all local
societies into women’s councils for each town
or city, and the aggregation of all state socie-
ties into state and territorial councils, that this
general plan of solidarity may be made help-
ful to the utmost possible degree, bringing
women of all sects and sections into mutual

	As all societies in the National Council are given equal
representation in that body by its Constitution, without
regard to the size of their membership, the general officers
of the Council have unanimously decided to recommend a
change in the Constitution at the first meeting of the
Council, in 1891, by which a uniform triennial fee of $100
shall be substituted for the annual and triennial fees above
mentioned; and the general officers will assume the re-
sponsibility of admitting societies to membership on this
new basis, if preferred, until such amendment can be
passed upon at the first meeting of the Council.

[Column 3]
acquaintance, efficiency and fellowship. The
simplicity of the plan is one of its chief ad-
vantages.
	The local Council of women would be made
up of the presidents of all societies of women
in a given locality, and might have a head-
quarters of its own, with an office secretary,
and hold meetings quarterly. This Council
would naturally enter unitedly upon such lines
of work as all Societies could agree upon. The
State Council would naturally hold meetings
annually. It is believed that such a plan of
interaction, combined with the organic inde-
pendence of each society, will broaden the out-
look of individual members and lead to larger
mutual toleration between organizations here-
tofore separate, and to a great degree non-sym-
pathetic; that it will do away with the over-
lapping of plans that now leads to much
waste of time and energy, and that its influence
would be sufficient to secure almost any local
reform either small or great.
	As an illustration of the practical working
of the plan, it may be stated that such a Coun-
cil of women might, if it were the general de-
sire, arrange for petitions from all societies of
women in any given town or city asking that
women should be placed on the school board;
on the different boards entrusted with the care
of public institutions for the defective, delin-
quent and dependent classes; asking for the
admission of women to membership, and to an
official standing, also, in local, county and state
organizations, such as press associations, medi-
cal associations, Sunday School and ecclesias-
tical associations, etc.; asking that the doors of
such schools and colleges as are not yet open
to women may be thrown open for their admis-
sion; asking for gymnastic and industrial
training for girls in the public schools; asking
for better protection for the home, and more
judicious penalties for all crimes against girls
and women.
In short, local and State Councils might take
the same action in local and state affairs that
the National Council will take regarding in-
stitutions and movements of national character
and scope. It will be readily seen that greatly
added force will come from any such move-
ment, whether local, state or national, when it
is backed by the united societies of the locality,
state or nation, and that with a small expendi-
ture of money and time, all these societies,
while carrying on separately their own indi-
vidual work for which they were organized,
may also do an immense work for womanhood
at large along the lines on which all can agree
to unite in sympathy, influence and effort.
To carry out such plans on so large a scale
will require time, but there is every reason to
believe that the women of the nation will per-
sist in a quiet but intelligent endeavor, having
in view the ends herein stated, until success
shall crown their great but altogether practic-
able movement.
	Already the organizations of women in
Chicago have formed a local Council, and a
similiar movement has been inaugurated in
Philadelphia, Detroit and Providence. Ohio
and Kansas have organized State Councils.
	Such unification of all local and State
organizations will at once illustrate on a small
scale what on a large scale the National
Council is expected to accomplish for the
welfare of humanity. But it is to be distinctly
understood that under the constitution of the
National Council only national societies of
women are eligible to membership therein.
	A form of constitution for local and State
Councils, and other hints and helps for organiz-
ing, will be furnished on application to Mrs.
May Wright Sewell, lnd., Corresponding Sec-
retary of the Woman’s National Council.
	Editors, writers and speakers are all earnest-
ly requested to further with their respective
facilities the plans herein stated. But we here
address ourselves especially TO THE LEADERS


AMONG WOMEN, urging upon their prayerful
thought the possibilities of blessing bound up
in the organized womanhood of our country—
a country which surpasses all others in its
bewildering danger and ineffable hope.
	Women have never yet united in large
numbers save for good purposes; it is safe to
predict that they never will. Their isolation
one from another is in the interest of brute
force; their combination means the dominance
of peace and spiritual power, the purification,
protection and coronation of the home; and
home is the shrine for whose sacred sake all
that is good and true on earth exists. Happy
are we who live to see the day when the women
of our native land are clasping hands with a
purpose so high and in a unity so holy which
may God bless.
FRANCES E. WILLARD, Evanston, Ill.,
	President of the Woman’s National Council
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Rochester, N. Y.
	Vice-President at Large.
M. LOUISE THOMAS, 680  Lexington Ave.,
	New York City,	
	Treasurer.
MARY F. EASTMAN, Tewksbury, Mass.,
	Recording Secretary.			
MAY WRIGHT SEWELL, 343 N. Pennsylvania
	Street, Indianapolis, Ind.,
	Corresponding Secretary.


