A PRIMARY SURPRISE. 
	On Friday, the 18th of January, 1889, the 
Primary children of the 6th Ward of Logan 
had a very pleasant time.  Their President, 
Sister Emma Pike, would be fifty years old on 
Sunday the 20th; Friday being their usual 
meeting day, they desired “to take time by the
forelock.” On entering the house she was 
greeted with a sweet song from the children
—“Gather them into the fold.” Prayer was 
offered by Fred Turner, a Primary boy.  
	In the center of the meeting house a table 
was spread with the good things usual to make 
a picnic, and in the center of it a large birth-
day cake was placed, with the name and age 
of our President on it, made by some of the 
older girls of the Primary Association.  Our 
acting Bishop, Fred Turner, also our Primary 
Stake President, Sister Jane Molen, and her 
Second Counselor, Sister Mattie A. Hanson, 
the Relief Society President, Sister Adeline 
Barber, and also the President of the Relief 
Society of the ward, Sister Lizzie Townsend 
and many others had assembled to greet Sister 
Pike.
	The children gave their usual exercises; a 
few of the oldest girls formed a committee and 
presented some beautiful window curtains to 
Sister Pike; a handsome book, entitled, “The
Light of the Nations,” was given by Master 
Fred Turner, and another pretty gift by a little 
boy to whom Sister Pike had administered in
sickness; also a beautiful book of winter scenes 
and a sweet poem composed for the occasion 
by Sister Mattie A. Hanson; a beautiful crazy 
patch pin-cushion, with Sister Pike’s name on 
it, was given to her by Ragna J. Johnson, the 
Secretary, and many other presents were given 
to her, after which a lunch was partaken of by 
all.  
	Many pleasant and cheering things were 
said to our President, calculated to strengthen 
her for the Primary labors, and give her cour-
age to meet all the duties and vicissitudes of 
life.  May she live long to continue her labors 
among the young, and have strength of mind
and body to fulfil all of life’s duties, is the 
wish of the officers and children of the 6th 
Ward of Logan.  
	We had a very pleasant entertainment on 
Friday night, Feb. 17th, in the 6th Ward
meeting house.  The house was well filled with 
people, and the children did their parts well, 
and it was really a success.
