SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	MARCH 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
﻿FREE FROM EXILE AND IMPRISON-
MENT. 
	On Thursday, February 21, Apostle George Q.
Cannon was released from the Penitentiary, where
he had been since September 17, 1888.  His time
having expired, he came forth a free man once
more, and his right of citizenship restored, a par-
don having been granted him from President
Cleveland. It is gratifying to him, certainly, and
to all the Latter-day Saints, that he received the
pardon in time to be valuable, and that he has his
freedom once more, and can be among the people,
counseling, encouraging, instructing and preach-
ing.
	The morning of the 22nd Prest. Woodruff
and Elder Geo. Q. Cannon were serenaded in the
President’s Office by the Tabernacle Choir in a
body, about one hundred in all. A few other
brethren and sisters were present. After shaking
hands and exchanging greetings, the choir ren-
dered some choice selections, and Bro. C. R.
Savage spoke a few touching and kindly words in
their behalf, Bro. Cannon responding in a very
affectionate and fatherly way. Mrs. Silverwood
sang in a sympathetic voice the song entitled, “The
song that reached my heart.” She was so much af-
fected, that she was obliged to stop for a few
minutes before she conld control her emotions
sufficiently to resume singing.
	After the Choir concluded their serenade, the
Kanaka brethren and sisters came in and sang
several pieces in their original style, language
and manner. Two or three songs or hymns had
been composed expressly for the occasion in
honor of Bro. Cannon and to welcome him again
to the midst of the Saints in Zion. The Sand-
wich Islanders look upon Bro. Cannon as their
father in the Gospel, he having labored among
them several years, more than thirty years ago
now. Prest. Woodruff was much exercised in
seeing them, and spoke eloquently to them of the
work they were to perform, his interest in their
behalf, and said many comforting things to them,
calculated to encourage them and strengthen their
faith in the Gospel. His remarks were interpreted
by a young Elder who had been on the Islands
upon a mission recently. This little incident was
one long to be remembered by those who wit-
nessed it. To meet again under such pleasant
circumstances two men whose lives are so identi-
 fied with the Church of God, and behold their
faces beaming with joy and gladness, after such a
long and dreary exile as it must have been to
them, and a trial to the Saints to be deprived of
their society, is an event to be treasured in one’s
heart, and remembered to the end of life’s pil-
grimage. This people truly love their leaders,
the Apostles, and Prest. Woodruff, the aged
veteran is greatly venerated as well as beloved by
the Latter-day Saints, who all rejoice to see him
[Column 2]
again among them in his accustomed places and
hear his voice in the assemblies of the Saints.
	On Sunday afternoon, March 24, the large
Tabernacle was filled to overflowing, the galleries
as well as the body of the house, and hundreds
went away who could not obtain seats. It was a
grand and imposing sight, this vast assembly of
people gathered together on the Sabbath day to
partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper,
and to hear the voices of those who had been
wont to teach them in the past, again speaking to
them from the public stand.
	Apostle Geo. Q. Cannon was the first speaker;
his voice was as clear and as powerful as ever,
and his emotions, however tender, were kept
strictly under control. He alluded with the ut-
most kindliness and genuine sympathy to the part
women had borne in the crusade or the persecu-
tion of the past few years, and spoke in terms of
glowing admiration of their integrity to the princi-
ples of their faith and their sublime courage
under trying and difficult ordeals. His discourse
was eloquent throughout, and must have made a
deep impression upon all who heard him, even to
the strangers who were in attendance, more as a
matter of curiosity, than to hear the truths of hea-
ven spoken by a servant of God.
	Prest. Woodruff spoke after Bro. Cannon had
finished, in his usual fluent and happy manner,
with the same earnestness and fervor that has
always characterized his public speaking, and he
was listened to with the profoundest attention,
that every word might be treasured up, and not an
idea lost sight of. Joy beamed upon every coun-
tenance, and tears fell from the eyes of many in
welcoming these Apostles again to the body of
the Church of the Saints in Zion.
	In the evening Elder Geo. Q. Cannon addressed
the meeting of the Latter-day Saints in the Fifth
Ward of this city, and no doubt he will be filling
his mission in preaching to the people wherever
and whenever duty calls him, and may his days
be full of peace and happiness, and his enemies
no more have power to force him into exile, or
cast him into prison. And for Prest. Woodruff
the prayers of the Saints ever ascend for his
safety and the lengthening out of his days, that
he may lead Israel onward, and that the enemies
of the Saints may never prevail against him or
have power to hinder the progress of the Church
and kingdom of God here upon the earth.
	On this day, the 1st of March, President Wood-
ruff attains to the advanced age of four score and
two years. It is a happy day for him; he is once
more at liberty to go among the people to associ-
ate with his friends, if not with his family. Verily
he has lived to a good old age, and his days have
been filled up with usefulness, and his opportuni-
ties are now increased and enlarged, for he fills
the highest position of trust and honor in the
Church of God upon the earth. His faithful-
ness, his zeal and integrity, and his humility are
known throughout Zion, and in the lands afar
where the Saints reside, and may he live to see
many happy returns of this day and the work of
God progress, and other Temples finished and
dedicated  to that spiritual work, to which so
much of his life has already been given.
	The EXPONENT adds its congratulations to
those of the many thousands of the Latter-day
Saints in wishing President Woodruff joy and
happiness on this occasion; and also in his enjoy-
ment of freedom to go and come without fear or
molestation.


