LIANTHI. 
	We are baptized for the dead, and believe 
that they in the spirit world take up their 
work among their spirit companions, just as 
we do here.  I have been led to wonder if
there is a spirit form of baptism there, answer-
ing to the real ordinance here, by the follow-
ing dream:  
	In 1885, in Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah, 
where I now live, I dreamed of walking in 
another country, into a city softly overshadowed 
by a golden light like a delicate mist, most 
beautiful and soothing to the eyes.  Quiet as a 
Sabbath, I could see groups of persons in fair 
attire going all in one direction.  The doors of 
dwellings stood ajar, their inmates all gone out.  
After wandering awhile through the peaceful 
streets I ventured to enter a house to rest, and 
soliloquized:  "I am a stranger here, knowing 
no one in all this city."  Thus reflecting I 
turned to survey the room, and observed a 
large portrait of a man, the picture surrounded 
by delicate sketches illustrating the labors of 
his life; underneath was the name LIANTHI; 
and under this the inscription, "A little one in 
the kingdom of heaven."  The five groups 
each described a missionary preaching the 
Gospel; also performing the ordinance of bap-
tism in clear streams, while thousands waited 
upon the banks.  I recognized these colored 
races as the North American Indians, and the 
white people as the long line of his own rela-
tives who had passed into the spirit world be-
fore him. 
	I gazed upon the solemn, pathetic and elo-
quent face of the preacher, his black hair in 
loose curls upon his shoulders, his right hand 
gracefully uplifted, the forefinger pointing up-
ward, and those eyes glowing and tremulous 
with power, and charmed, enthralled with bliss-
ful fervor I asked myself, "Who is he?  I know 
that somewhere I have met that soul!"
	When I awoke the dream returned and like 
a flash came the recollection of my great-
grandfather, who had a Puritan father and 
Penobscot mother, and after his Christian edu-
cation claimed that he was divinely called to 
preach the teachings of Jesus Christ.  Seventy 
years he followed his mission, heard of Mor-
monism, but died without receiving his desire
to investigate it.  Then a work was done for 
him in the house of the Lord, and I doubt not 
he took up his labor in the spirit world, for the 
face of Lianthi in my dream was the same that 
looks forth from the canvas in the old home—
the face of the Rev. John Harriman.  
