MRS. FARNSWORTH'S SPEECH

	I suppose, ladies, we are all aware of the ob-
ject of the present meeting, the causes which
bring us together to-day. Politics are some-
thing foreign to woman's past association, yet
in our city, at least, we hope to ere long better
understand and comprehend their uses, and
the broad provisions their universal rights give
to every citizen. The meaning of Politics is
the science of government, the science of gov-
ernment is the laws, regulations and principles
which control the acts and conduct of a peo-
ple.
	Woman's Suffrage is nothing new in the
world, it being half a century since Mrs.
Francis Wright of England, first introduced
the question in America, soon after Ernestine
L. Ross, of Poland, made her advent in our
country; since that time it has gradually gained
ground, yet its growth has been slow; battling
with bigotry and conservatism every step of
the way; its travels have been long, tedious
and not always victorious, yet its defeats
have all left their effects. Every art and
science of the world, also innovations of every
name and nature, have met with barriers and
had to outlive prejudices among men to
thoroughly and permanently establish them-
selves.
	Since the Romans invaded Britain hundreds
of years since, woman’s elevation has year after
year gained strength; in those dark ages she
was treated simply as a slave, girls being con-
sidered far inferior to boys, and none but the
priests or high officials were allowed to be in-
structed in reading and writing. I thank God
I did not live in those barbaric times.
	Ladies, before I proceed further with my
speech or lecture, I wish to tell you plainly the
position I take here to-day. I am a friend of
humanity, which comprises men and women;
they are inseparable; the one is dependent on
the other; neither alone can form a perfect
home, community or nation; we do not wish to
take any of the rights or laurels from men in
this undertaking. Were I acting or speaking
for personal aggrandizement, for individual
liberties and honor, I would not raise a finger
nor allow my voice to be heard in public. My
own domestic circle provides ample scope for
all the ability I possess, surrounded with the
necessaries of life, a loving, kind husband, who
regards me as his equal; I am sheltered in his
confidence and encircled by bright, precious
babes. God has been kind indeed to me. And
as in a former essay I have told you woman's
true sphere is the home, her noblest, her grand-
est position that of wife and mother, yet, I will
further qualify this assertion if in occupying
those places, or officiating in that office, she
can do justice to other professions, the simple
fact of her acting in her home circle, is no
reason why she should not in any other lawful
one. Some say it will make division in the
family for the wife to have a voice in the body
politic; I say it will not. Where is the hus-
band who does not trust, love and admire an
intelligent, self-reliant wife? Where are the
children who do not respect and reverence an
able, competent mother, who can not only pro-
vide for their physical wants, but also advise,
instruct and guide them in an intellectual
way?
	It was in 1848 Mrs. E. C. Stanton com

[Column 3]

memced her political campaign; since then she
has been made the President of the National
Woman Suffrage Association. She is a lady
of grand capabilities and has brought about
many good results by her indefatigable energy.
Her life and its noble example is too lengthy
to more than simply touch on; she is the only
lady in the United States that was ever put up
as delegate to Congress; of course she was de-
feated, yet that is nothing here nor there. As
a girl in her father's law office, she was often
heard to exclaim: "Why this distinction be-
tween the sexes? My father, though an honor-
able judge, a loving parent, is always repining
in this way: 'If you were only a boy.' "	*	*
	This question of woman’s suffrage is agitat-
ing the minds of the women of almost every
nation. In far off Russia, in Germany, Nor-
way, Sweden and Denmark, in fact all over
Europe, they are feeling the necessity of a
change in governmental affairs. They have
the support of many great, good men. Bis-
mark is opposed to woman's enfranchisement,
yet the Emperor Frederick was a strong advo-
cate of it. Queen Victoria is not in sympathy
with this movement. This is the only unqueenly
principle I have ever heard she possessed.
Gladstone, John Stuart Mills, Sidney Smith
and Lord Mansfield are, or were, the women's
true friends. I cannot do my subject justice,
ladies, I am not educated sufficiently, yet
heaven will aid every just and noble cause, and
we wish to gain nothing that is not founded
on truth, integrity and liberality. We seek
not to convince by any other than sound logic
and worthy reason.
	Susan B. Anthony, when a girl of fifteen,
taught a district school. The directors of the
school said she taught the best disciplined
school in the county, yet, because she was a
girl, paid her twelve dollars, and men teachers
twenty-four and thirty dollars a month.	*	*
*	*	In the large manufacturing cities many
have to stand from twelve to fourteen hours a
day, do equal work with men and receive only
half the wages. While in San Francisco, two
years ago, we visited a Chinese shoe factery,
owned by a gentlemanly Japanese. He showed
us through the establishment, and there among
185 of those filthy heathens twenty-five fair
white girls were employed just the same as
Chinamen. Girls, for there are some present
to-day, let not your only aim in life be to get a
husband; study to learn to be of some use in
the world; place your standard of womanhood
high.	*	*	*	We have
among the truly eminent women many who
lived a single life rather than marry one un-
worthy of them. Henry Ward Beecher once
refused to speak after a woman advocate of
woman enfranchisement—the beautiful, tal-
ented and highly aocomplished Annie E.
Dickenson. She had lectured in the Coopers'
Institute, N. Y., and Beecher was called for
loudly. "No," said he, "let no man raise his
voice after such heaven inspired eloquence.
Music is the only fitting tribute."	*	*
	Were women enfranchised the moral stand-
ard of society would be vastly improved, for
women would not, as a rule, from choice lead
any but moral lives. Thousands, yes, tens of
thousands of women are thrown on their own
resources for support and protection, unaided
by law, in gaining equal wages and positions.
What woman, when taken in court or before a
jury, would not rather be examined by refined,
intelligent ladies, than by men, perhaps rough
and coarse The injustice of women not hav-
ing a voice in the government of our country,
is not yet thoroughly understood. Girls should
study law. A few years ago Old Harvard
would not allow girls to enter the college, but
of late they have been admitted, and have
made bright records to the annex. America
has produced lady lawyers, doctors, teachers
and professors; she has sculptors, painters and
prima donnas, musicians and poets, editors, in-


ventors, hospital nurses, statesmen and house-
keepers. God grant that long before another
centennial year shall have passed away, the
last link in the chain of political vassalage
which binds woman to the dark ages of the
past, shall be broken, forever abandoned, and
the subject of woman suffrage properly ad-
justed, and free and equal rights given to all.
	Miss Stella Barton then sang a song fitted
to the occasion. Miss Aretta Young made a
speech, which was followed by the committee
on by-laws signifying their readiness to report.
The by-laws were read and adopted.
	The meeting then adjourned for one month.


