YOUNG WOMEN.

	What young women do, and do not do.
What their mothers and grandmothers used to
do. What the mothers of the future are likely
to do, and to be. These are fruitful topics of

[Column 2]

conversation and criticism, and form the
groundwork of many an article in the journals
of the day. We are all very apt to indulge
somewhat freely in the worship of the past, and
"auld lang syne" somehow touches tenderly a
fine-strung chord in the human heart; but we
who are living and acting now, have really
very much more occasion to make the present
beautiful and attractive, than to gaze back-
ward and rehearse over the sayings and doings
of other periods, and long after the past. The
work of women in that age was a part of the
time, and a natural result of their surround-
ings and the state of society in which they
lived. And ours to day is perhaps a step in
advance and what we are doing pertains to the
present and will have its bearing upon those
who are to come after us, the next generation,
as the doings of the past has upon us; strange
if our posterity should glance backward with
the same idol-worship of the age in which we
are living, and with the workings of which
some of us seem to be so dissatisfied. But this
is said to be an age of idleness for women,
comparatively speaking, there are so many
facilities for lightening labor; and even our
babies now-a-days not only have cradles but
carriages, whereas but a short time ago we had
always to carry them in our arms.
	A long time ago in the days of our grand-
mothers every young lady was expected to
know how to card and spin, if not to weave, in
addition to her knowledge of all other house-
hold employments; and knitting was an indis-
pensable requisite in any young girl's qualifi-
cations; it was the work that could always be
relied upon in case all other work gave out.
In fact it became proverbial, that no young
woman should marry until she had a pillow-
case full of stockings of her own knitting, and
usually of her own spinning. Bed and table
linen of one's own work were also essential.
Spinning flax on a little wheel was considered
in those primitive days the finishing off of a
young lady's domestic accomplishments, and
it is really an industry requiring skill. I well
remember my grandfather telling me, "Ladies
spun on the little wheel" (with great emphasis
on the word ladies). I knew well what he
meant, although everything of the kind was
done in factories then; I had often seen the
fuuny little wheel in the garret, and been told
it belonged to my great-grandmother, and I
remember distinctly, when a little girl, of
trying to convert it into a rocking horse, fancy-
ing the handful of flax which still clung, to the
spindle was the mane. If I had not decided
to write about what women do, and don't do,
I could tell you a long story about other inter-
esting curiosities in that same garret, where I
played with the little wheel for a horse, on
which my foremothers had spun the very linen
with which the family closets were filled; but
withal I will say, that there were many relics
of former days there, that gave me a particular
love for garrets, which clings to me still.
Now-a-days such things go to a second-hand
store, a term I never really appreciated the
practical meaning of until of late. But we
will go back to the spinning and leave the
garrets for another time. Our forefathers
thought there could not be a more beautiful
picture than a pretty woman, sitting carelessly
at the little wheel spinning flax; drawing out
the shining threads with taper fingers, while
the dainty foot in open-work stocking and old-
fashioned sandal, showing to the best advan-

[Column 3]

tage, rested on the treadle. I have heard it
averred, that many a bashful, sunbrowned
sweetheart, has been induced to declare his
love and urge his suit, at sight of his inamorata
spinning flax at the little wheel. More pro-
posals of marriage have likely been made be-
side the spinning wheel than at the piano.
Perhaps it is owing to the industrial tone of
the occupation, for matrimony savors of labor;
men are not apt to look upon the piano as a 
desirable article of household furniture, or as
any addition to domestic happiness; albeit
many women earn their own living, hardly
enough too, by teaching instrumental music;
and there are men who barely tolerate a piano
in the house, because wife or daughter has en-
treated him to buy it. I have heard men
make bold to say, even in this age of culture,
they preferred to see women play upon the
washboard; this is the class of men I ween who
would use the money earned by the industrious,
devoted wife to purchase cigars and tobacco.
But lest we wander away from the theme of
spinning, and spin out a long dissertation upon
men and women's opinions of each other, we
will go back to the spinning wheel, and the
every day pursuits of women; say what we
will about the beauty and utility of the distaff
and the spindle, this age of progress has left
them far behind in the dim distance, and they
only live in the recollection of our young ladies
in connection with poetic legends and love-
stories. Many other once essential household
labors are supplanted by the mechanical work
of machinery of modern invention; until one
wonders comparing the past with the present,
how it is there is so much still left for woman's
busy fingers to do, and that there seems to be
so little time in which to perform the work of
the household.
	Well, as young women can't spin, because
forsooth there is no spinning to do, and as
knitting is out of date, and sewing done up in
a hurry on a machine, instead of wearing away
one's self at it till midnight and past, women
ought to have plenty of time to read, and go
to bed early. It used to be common for the
mother to do all the family sewing, and darn-
ing, and mending after papa and the children
were in bed; this does not date far back; but
there is little need of it now, and women, mo-
thers especially, may save the vitality which
used to be expended in fine hemming and
stitching, etc., and it will possibly be a benefit
to the future race. Not that one should be
idle, but not over-worked as women necessarily
have been in former times. Common sense
tells us that young women, or we will say
mothers, cannot hold out to work so many
more hours than the day laborer; and yet this
has often been the case. What is the result—
the mother breaks down, grows prematurely
old, or succumbs altogether, leaving her family
to grow up without her tender, loving care,
and the world calls it "a dispensation of divine
providence." Let us be thankful, that some
of the burdens of woman's life have been re-
lieved by the spirit of progress; I am sure we
have great reason to be. Who of us for in-
stance, and more especially our daughters
would like to cook over a fireplace as we did
in the early days in Utah? Methinks I see
some of those girls looking back thirty, or
even twenty-five years, and see their mothers
piling coals on the bake kettle with baby (per-
chance the identical young lady) in her arms.
Why it actually makes me all in a heat to think


of it. That day is past, and now what? well
what! one taken up from another century and
set down in this, would wonder how we occu-
pied our time; and yet we hear women every
day saying, “I have so much to do.” Well
one’s needs or wants increase as civilization
reaches a higher state, and all that implies
work to keep up with the times; still where we
used to have to scrub floors, we now have car-
pets, and if we wear more ruffles and flounces,
we do not do half of the embroidering in lace,
muslin and linen that our grandmothers did.
We bake more cakes, and make more pastry,
which is a very great drawback, for as a com-
pensation, we get peevish and dyspeptic, and
low-spirited in proportion. We ought to eat
our fruit, without pastry to make us sick, and
dispense with rich cakes altogether either for
ourselves or company. That would be one
step towards economy and expense, and we
should have so much the more time to read, in-
struct our children or exchange friendly inter-
course with our neighbors.
	In commencing this article I said, what young
women do, and do not do; that was the first
paragraph, and the last to be woven into the
chapter. Well then it seems to me, that the
young ladies of today do not appreciate their
blessings. Not that I think they mean to be
at all ungrateful, but their surroundings are so
pleasant, and their associations so happy, in
contrast with the past, that it is scarcely to be
credited as real. The opportunities for gain-
ing knowledge, the facilities for culture, the
many comforts and embellishments for the
home, that beautify and give charm to domestic
and social life, all these in detail add to their
cup of blessings; and if they are wise and lay
up treasures of wisdom and understanding,
now in the days of their youth, they may be
much better qualified to fill the responsible
positions of wife and mother, than those who
have had so few advantages, and so many
hardships to endure. Young ladies, believe
me, you have work to do, which will require
active exertion of brain and muscle; and
though you will perhaps not have the oppor-
tunity of spinning on the little wheel, you
will find needful work lying all around you.
Mothers ought to devote a goodly portion of
the time in teaching their children by the
fireside and in my soul I pity that woman,
who thinks the work, which must be left un-
done when she is gone, of more consequence
than the moral or spiritual lessons she is capa-
ble of imparting to her offspring. The young
women of to-day are well informed in regard
to the duties of life. If they act according to
the light which has been given to them, there
is scarcely anything in the power of women to
do, but they may succeed in accomplishing.
	This is designated an age of refinement and
culture; and a school education is attainable
by all; certainly the superior advantages en-
joyed must have a tendency to lift up and
elevate, unless there is correspondingly strong
counteracting influences, detracting and bear-
ing downwards. Whatever forces of this
kind may exist they ought not to affect in
any great degree the Latter-day Saints, whose
principles of faith, and knowledge of the truths
of heaven, should lift them above the seducing
allurements that hinder the onward and upward
progression of society in the world. Then
what conclusion shall we arrive at? Why,
consequently that the condition of woman to-
day is much better in every respect than in
the days of our grandmothers, and that the
women of the future, will, judging from the
outlook of the present, far surpass us who are
now upon the stage of action. Woman is
learning to think, act and reason for herself,
not to hang her conscience on another, or pin
her faith to the sleeve of any one. Young
girls are beginning to comprehend that em-
ployment, suited to the capacity of woman by
which she may earn an independent living, is
much more womanly, than depending upon
some male relative for maintenance and sup-
port. Besides many women are suddenly left
helpless and alone, by the death of husband or
father, and how desolate under such circum-
stances will she be, who has never been taught
self-dependence. This is one of the lessons
thoughtful women are learning today, and it
will be a legacy better than wealth, for it will
not take wings and fly away. Then success to
the young lady of the age, if she cannot spin
flax at the little wheel, she can make a far
prettier picture, with her intelligent face, when
she sits with the crown of motherhood upon
her thoughtful brow, caressing her first baby.
