EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Stake secretaries of the Relief Society in
the various Stakes of Zion are urgently requested
to prepare semi-annual Stake reports and forward
them, so that they will reach this city on or before
the 20th of March, in order that a complete re-
port may be furnished the General Conference in
April.  Direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, corner
2nd West and First South Streets, Salt Lake
City.  By order of Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.  
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each 
Stake of Zion.  These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, to enable
her to compile them in time for the General Con-
ference on April 6th.  Will the secretaries of the
several Stakes please send promptly to Mary E.
Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, Salt Lake
City, Utah.  
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, March 14,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  A representa-
tive from each branch Society in the County is
particularly requested, and a cordial invitation is
extended to all who are interested in the work of
the organization.  The Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will meet in conference Friday, March 15,
and the Primary Association Saturday, the 16th.
A full representation from each Association is
very desirable at both these conferences.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March.  Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them.  It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures 
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	ON Wednesday, Feb. 13th, a few ladies assem-
bled by invitation at the residence of Mrs. Julia
C. Howe, in this city, in what might be termed a
parlor meeting.  Social conversation upon topics
of general interest occupied the afternoon, and a
delicious repast was served at 5 p.m., after which
a rich spiritual feast was partaken of, when be-


[Column 1]
﻿sides singing and prayer, nearly every one present
expressed their thoughts and feelings in a few
appropriate and well-chosen words, and also their
desires to devote their lives more fully to the in-
terests and welfare of Zion. The Spirit of God
was abundantly poured out upon all present, and 
a time of rejoicing was experienced.
	Some time since we had the pleasure of attend-
ing a pleasant little gathering at the residence
of Mrs. H. G. Park, in this city. As the day was
a very stormy one, only a few of the invited guests
were present, but those who did come had a most 
enjoyable time. The dinner was delicious and
elegantly served, and the handsome dining room
was brilliantly lighted and as cosy as possible.
The conversation was of a social nature with a
thread of politics to enliven it, woman’s rights,
suffrage, etc., and statehood for Utah. Among
the guests who had the courage to venture out in
the storm, and who participated in the animated
discussions with the genial hostess, were Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Jennie McLean and
Mrs. Margaret M. Caine. Later in the evening
Miss Mabel Park, after much persuasion, con-
sented to play and sing for the company, which
was greatly enjoyed; the young lady has a very
good voice, rich and musical, and her playing is 
very fine and her selections good. 
	TUESDAY evening, February 26, the annual
meeting of the Young Ladies’ Association in the
14th Ward of this city, convened in the Ward
Hall, which was elegantly fitted up for the occa-
sion. A very handsome carpet was laid down,
easy chairs, sofas and handsome little tables were
tastefully arranged; natural flowers here and 
there added their peculiar charm to the decora-
tions, and the beautiful and intelligent faces of
the young women, who had planned all this for
the enjoyment of the gathering, was a sight fair
to see. Miss Aggie Campbell, President of the 
Association, presided with ease and dignity.
After singing, and prayer by Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor, the roll call was responded to with a senti-
ment or verse from each of the members present,
which made a happy variety. The exercises were
of an interesting character, consisting of short
speeches, a song, by the Misses Campbell, and a
correspondence between two young women, a
poem, “Jamie,” recited with true dramatic tender-
ness, by Mrs. Ri. Taylor, also some testimonies,
that were quite impressive. Brief addresses were
also made by Sister M. A. Freeze, M. I. Horne,
E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor, and by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and President Angus M. Cannon. Elder
Arthur Stayner recited in true dramatic style, the
significant poem, “The Church and the World,”
which was richly appreciated. Bishop Taylor
announced another part of the programme—
refreshments—which were served to all that 
goodly company, by what he facetiously 
termed “the white apron brigade.” After par-
taking of the delicate collation prepared by these
thoughtful young ladies, there was a call for
music, which was responded to, and Bishop
Whitney sang two or three favorite pieces, also
Brother Butler, and after singing and some social
converse of friends and acquaintances, the assem-
bly was dismissed with singing “Good Night”
by the choir, and a benediction, was pronounced by
Coun. H. F. Richards.
	ON Wednesday afternoon a few of the friends
of Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hyde assembled at the resi-
dence of that venerable lady, with baskets of pic-
nic, as an expression of their esteem, and to cele-
brate the seventy-eighth anniversary of her birth.
The afternoon was spent in conversation and re-
calling of reminiscences of the past thirty years.
The party was planned by Miss Josephine Win-
berg, and the programme carried out by herself 
and co-assistants, Mrs. Rachel Grant, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Grey and others. Bro. and Sister Rosell
Hyde of Kaysville were in the city by accident,

[Column 2]
and were present, Bishop Atwood and wife, Elder
Geo. Goddard and wife, Mrs. Ann Woolley and
her daughter Fanny, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. 
Charles Hyde, Mrs. Catherine Hyde, Mrs. Jane
Rigby and others. Elder Geo. Goddard enter-
tained the company by singing “Hard times come
again no more,” and also, “The men are pretty
dear.” Bishop Atwood made a few remarks be-
fore leaving, expressing his kindly feelings for the
lady in whose honor the guests had assembled,
and called upon Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had lived
so near to Sister Hyde for many years; she re-
sponded briefly, alluding to “Aunt. Elizabeth’s”
(as she is affectionately called) journeying across
the plains with the handcart company in 1856,
and other matters familiar to those present, after
which Bro. Rosell Hyde, by request, spoke a few
words, as the representative of the family of his
deceased father, Herman Hyde, who, with his 
wife and children, were among the earliest mem-
bers of the Church in the State of New York. 
Sister Hyde expressed herself much gratified
with the tributes of good feeling and esteem she
had received, and made some very appropriate 
remarks suited to the time and occasion.


