ST. PAUL’S WIFE.

Under the above heading The Victoria Daily
Times; Victoria, B.C. publishes what it styles
“A Piquant Debate by the Ladies,” from
which we clip the following, believing our
readers will be interested in the subject and 
amused with the way the matter is handled.
It is certainly a novel theme for discussion.
The debate was held in the Methodist Church
in that city, the Rev. Mr. Starr presiding as
master of ceremonies. Six ladies took part in
the discussion Tuesday evening Jan. 22nd. The 
matter was introduced thus: “Resolved that
St. Paul was a married man.”—ED
	The debate was opened by Mrs. Grant, who
stated her case clearly and concisely. She
held that only as a married man could St.
Paul have attained the celebrity he did in
church matters. She attributed Mrs. St.
Paul’s inconspicuousness to her attention to
home matters, which left no doubt in the minds
of the audience as to her partiality for house-
keeping. The speaker further referred from
the general character of Paul’s writings that he
was too susceptible a man to have remained
single; because it was a custom among the Jews 
to marry at an early age, particularly the mem-
bers of the Sanhedrim, an assembly to which
Paul belonged. The fact that Paul gave no
particulars was of no consequence as showing
him to be a single man. Common modesty
forbid, that unless his wife was an active worker
among the missions, she should remain in the
background. 
	Mrs. Starr, who represented the “opposi-
tion,” as the Chairman styled it, next took the
floor. This lady gave several anecdotes illus-
trative of the points she wished to make, and
she also flatly asserted that it was not incum-
bent on the members of the Sanhedrim to enter
upon the conjugal relations. Again it was not
so clear that Paul was a member of the San-
hedrim, inasmuch as he was probably too
young a man to be admitted to that august
body. He had witnessed Stephen’s death as a
young man of 28, and was converted shortly
afterward. It was not at all probable that a
man so young would have taken a prominent
part in the deliberations of the Jews. Having
thus established a doubt as to Paul’s member-
ship of the Sanhedrim and therefore leaving
the inference that he was under no obligations
to marry, she proceeded to say that the best
evidence of Paul’s single blessedness was his
reticence in reference to Mrs. St. Paul. It was
hardly credible to suppose that if he had been
a married man he would have remained so
profoundly silent on the matter. Why should
Paul want a wife? said the fair speaker, when 
being a tent-maker by profession he could do
all his own mending and darning. Married,
forsooth, St. Paul was a crusty old bach. Mrs.
Starr then thanked The Times for its advocacy
of her side of the case and quit the floor for
Mrs. Chase.
	Mrs. Chase gave a pen portrait of Mrs. Saul,
as that must have been Paul’s name at the 
period of his matrimonial venture, describing
her as fair with dark eyes. She said that Paul’s
recommendation that women should not talk
was all owing to the fact of Mrs. Paul being a 
voluble conversationalist, and of having given
her liege lord an overdose. Nobody but a man
who was married, or had been married, would
ever have known whether women should hold
their tongues or not. Mrs. Chase was further
of the opinion that Paul’s silence in the matter
of his wife was owing to his being a widower
during the period of his ministry. Then again, 
as regards kissing, a feature frequently alluded
to by the Apostle; how should he know any-
thing about it unless he had been a married
man? Mrs. Chase concluded her remarks with
a eulogy on the man as the noblest and best of
all the disciples. 

[Column 2]
Miss Lazenby was the next speaker. This
lady said that she had always been an admirer
of St. Paul, and that had she been a contempor-
ary of his, it is doubtful if he had remained a
bachelor, at least not with her consent. In this
speaker’s preliminary remarks, we had promise
of some witty revelations, but she did not con-
tinue as long as the audience would have
liked.
	Mrs. Adams, for the affirmative, assumed
that St. Paul could not have given so much 
good advice  unless he had been a married man.
The fact that he never alluded to his family 
was no sign of bachelorhood. Mr. Moody nor
any of the divines for that matter, were in the
habit of interlarding their sermons with remi-
niscences of their married experiences.
	Mrs. Gardner alluding to the “thorn in the
flesh,” attributed it to St. Paul’s fecundity of 
speech, a characteristic originating primarily
in a predisposition to epilepsy. Poets and all
men addicted to broad scope of language were
more or less epileptic; ‘twas an infallible sign
of genius. It was not reasonable to suppose
that St. Paul would allude to woman in op-
probrious terms, and even if he had it was no
sign of his having been a married man. A
woman a thorn in the flesh, said the speaker;
St. Paul wasn’t built that way. If he had been
 a married man he never would have offered
any advice to women, because he must have
known they would disregard it. Did you ever
know of a bachelor, said the lady, with a toss
of her pretty head, who was not always talk-
ing about women. 
	Mrs. Grant then closed for the affirmative,
recapitulating and quoting old authors in sup-
port of her argument. 
	Mrs. Starr followed for the “opposition,” and
in rebuttal of the remark that St. Paul must
have been a married man to be familiar with
kissing, said he was a funny bachelor who was 
ignorant of the art of osculation, (blushing
among the bachelors.) And so ended the 
famous controversy, a controversy which was
awarded to the negatives by a bare majority.
	Our reporter has listened to a good many
debates, and he has heard a number of women 
talk, but this was the most characteristic affair
he ever witnessed—womanish to the backbone,
piquant, and developing considerable research.
St. Paul is a very grave subject to be handled
lightly, and doubtless were he a witness to the
forensic combat last night over his matrimonial
status, he would wish to assume the body once
more and relieve “the thorn of the flesh busi-
ness,” of the ambigity it is said to possess.
The preceeding, however, with all its tendency
to levity, is not without good points. Research
is stimulated and men who have grown rusty
in biblical matters resurrect their testaments
and refresh their memories. On the whole the
effort was worth listening to, and that it was
appreciated was made manifest by the applause
of the audience. One thing is certain, the 
ladies show a quickness of wit and a noncha-
lance which made our reporter feel for his sex.


Four new States would add greatly to 
Fourth of July celebrations, because four more 
girls would be needed to represent the galaxy 
of States in the gorgeously decorated wagons 
in patriotic parades.  
	The woman suffrage bill has been defeated 
in the Dakota House of Representatives, by a 
vote of 17 to 28  One potent reason was the 
fear that the establishment of woman suffrage 
might make Congress less inclined to admit Da-
kota as a State.  The men of Dakota were so 
eagerly anxious to obtain full political rights 
for themselves that they disregarded the just 
claims of their wives and sisters.  It is a pity.
—Ex.


