		READ AT A MEETING! OF THE Y. L. A.

	As faith is the first principle of the Gos-
pel, it is necessary to inquire what is faith?
the Scriptures tell us that "faith is the as-
surance of things hoped for, the evidence
of things not seen;" for example if I should
tell you that by going to a certain place
you could obtain a piece of gold or a pearl
of great beauty, and consequently you go
and find it, you manifest your faith by your
works. Thus it is when we obey the
Gospel, certain blessings follow; but if we
say we believe and do not obey then is our
faith vain. It is like the body without the
spirit, dead. It was this living faith, my
young sisters, which caused your fathers
and mothers to obey the Gospel, in their
native lands, and homes; in the midst of
scorn and persecution through faith they
left homes and kindred and all they held
dear and embarked on the mighty ocean
tossed upon the waves and billows for weeks
and months, far from the sight of land sea-
sick and weary, but still trusting in the
arm of Jehovah to bring them safely to a
haven of rest; and many of them had never
known the trials and hardships of life, leav-
ing weeping friends distracted with grief,
who had not faith, and did not understand
the purposes of God. Through faith they
traveled across the plains with the slow
wearisome travel of oxen—but still more
wearisome traveled with hand-carts;
think of it my young sisters: your fathers
and mothers traveling over a thousand miles
drawing a hand-cart, with their rations and
bedding, cooking utensils, clothing and etc,
many of them  with little children; fording
rivers up to their waists and toiling
through miles of heavy sand, and yet by
the camp-fire at night their songs of praise
resounded to God, for the principles of faith
were planted in their bosoms; they had an


assurance of things not seen; by faith they
arrived in these valleys; they were not then
the rich fertile valleys you now see. By
faith they subdued the sterile, barren soil
and through the blessings of God succeeded
in making the wilderness blossom as the
rose, it may yet be said of us in succeeding,
generations as it has been said of Moses;
they struck the soil, and it brought forth
abundantly, but it has taken years of ardu-
ous toil—toil that now tells on the con-
stitution of those who have passed through
it.
	Time would fail me to tell you of the
trials of our faith caused by crickets, grass-
hoppers, droughts, floods, and also by the
persecution of our enemies; but in all we
are an exceedingly blest and happy people;
and through faith we intend to grow and
increased and spread abroad till like Abra-
ham of old, of our increase there shall be no
end. 
	Now my dear young friends you need
not think that because we have done so
much there is nothing for you to do, you
have got to spread abroad; you need
not think that the Territory of Utah is
going to hold the children of Zion you
will have to build up new Colonies.
	It is for our young people as they are
called upon, to leave fathers and mothers
for Zion's stakes must be strengthened
and her "cords lengthened." "Give us
room that we may dwell, Zion's children
cry aloud." The Scriptures are fulfilling
right before our eyes; the wicked are
afraid that we will take away their name
and nation, but the prophecies must be
fulfilled through earth and hell should dare
oppose.
	Therefore contend earnestly for the faith
delivered in these last days to your fathers
that you may be enabled through faith to
help bring to pass the purposes of Jehovah;
and may the quickening influence of the
Spirit of God rest upon the children of
Zion, that it may be as a living fire within
them bringing forth much fruit unto right-
eousness, then can you say with the Poet.
		"In danger in trials and afflictions
		We have shared with the worthies of yore,
		That we at truths banquet may join them,
		When errors great conflict is o'er."
							MARY FERGUSON.
	Spanish Fork, Sept. 20, 79,


