	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE CO., U. T.,
						Aug, 12. 1879.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	What a world of good is often the result
of some simple change in the life of a weak,
suffering mortal! change of air, change of
diet, change of scenery and of associations;
these little things often work wonderful
cures. My year-old boy and myself have
realized the blessings and benefits of those
changes, to a marvelous extent, during the
past week.
	For more than a month our visit to the
country had been talked of. But being un-
decided as to what length of time the visit
might extend, (as I still am,) I could not
leave home until after the August election.
	No, although longing, almost starving
for a breath of fresh country air, I prize my
right of franchise too highly, to throw away
lightly chances of voting for good men as
officers, and run the risk of bad ones being
elected without having made use of the lit-
tle power I hold in the matter. But the
next morning after election day, "baby"
and I, under the tender guardianship of
kind, careful "papa," set out on a forty-five

[Column 2]
mile journey and an extended visit to our
friend "Mary," of Grantsville.
	Providence seemed to take special charge
of us during the day. Every thing that
transpired appeared to be in our favor.
And although our poor baby, was quite sick
and weak, the journey though somewhat
fatiguing to him, proved beneficial rather
than otherwise.
	"Papa" only remained with us three
days, just to become convinced that "baby"
was really improving, and with careful nurs-
ing would, through the mercies of God, be
all right. Then he returned to the busy,
dusty city, leaving "baby" and I to recruit
at leisure, in care of trusty and most hos-
pitable friends.
	Now, as I sit in the cool, green shade,
writing a promised letter to our dear EXPO-
NENT, listening to the dashing and splash-
ing of a beautiful mountain stream and the
song of birds among the branches over head,
I feel a profound sympathy for ever so many of
my friends and acquaintances, who need
just such changes as have come to me in
the last week, but are not privileged as
I am.
	I think we should have one more set of
philanthropists in Salt Lake City. We
have the Sunday School advocates, who see
to it that the children and young folk's
have their pleasant "outs" and jolly times
at least once a year; and we have the "Com-
mittee for the Old Folks Excursion," who,
for some years past, have each summer,
given our aged friends and the infirm and
the very poor among us, a first class ex-
cursion. But there is an intermediate
class, belonging neither to the young nor
the old, who live in a sort of social starva-
tion, who mingle with no crowds of pleasure
seeking and find no time nor opportunities
for recreation, no seasons for refreshment
and rest. I refer to that class of over anx-
ious over tasked wives and mothers who
"stay at home forever." I will not here
enter into details, or attempt to explain the
'whys and wherefores" in the case. We
all know that the class of wives and mothers
I have named is too long. And we also
know that if any living creature needs
changes, such as I mentioned at the begin-
ing of my letter, it is the child-bearing
mother. If they are beneficial to others,
they are of twofold benefit to her. I hope
we may some day have a committee or com-
mittes, either self commissioned or au-
thoritatively appointed, to work up this
subject and make it one of general, in-
terest, as others are, and must be if success-
fully handled to promote the general good.
	Here let me say, should the ideas ad-
vanced in the last paragraph chance to reach
the ears of the Anti Polygamy workers of
Utah, they may gather from them the be-
lief that I have been making a complaint
in behalf of neglected polygamous wives;
which would be in keeping with the other
beliefs expressed by them in relation to
our people and their systems—an entire
mistake. As far as my acquaintance
extends among both polygamous and mon-
ogamous Mormon families, the wives of
the former enjoy far more freedom, and
many of them are less tied at home by
family cares than the latter. *	*	*
	Polygamy, when properly understood
and lived in, certainly lightens the bur-
dens of home work and home cares more
than any other domestic arrangements can.
	This is but one of the least of its advan-
tages; but I should think that almost the
dullest intellect might comprehend this
simple fact. While the higher and holier
blessings pertaining to the order of plurality
of wives, we cannot expect those to under-

[Column 3]
stand who have not received the light of
the Gospel. Nor can we, who have been
favored with a testimony of its truth,
estimate or appreciate its full value.
	For myself, and for my sisters in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
my fervent prayer is that we may ever
have abiding with us, sufficient of the
Holy Ghost to enable us to honor the princi-
ple and practice of plurality of wives,
under all circumstances. Then I believe,
we shall be able to prove ourselves faithful
in all things.
	The people of Grantsville are lively, good-
natured, and sociable so far as I can judge
by the small opportunities I have had of
mingling with them. This branch of the
Relief Society is doing well, both officers
and members being ambitious to understand
and perform all their duties. An excellent
spirit is manifested at their meetings.
The hot, dry season has had its deleterious
effects here as in other localities, grain
and fruit crops being scarcely half as good
or abundant as in former years.
	There are but small chances for gleaning
or saving up grain in any way here this
season.
	Oh! may the Saints be more united and
more diligent in serving God than they
have hitherto been, that His blessings may
not be withheld from them.


[For the EXPONENT.
