EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 7th of August S[-]sters E. R. Snow, M.
I. Horne, S. M. Heywood and S. M. Kimball
visited our settlement and held two meetings,
during which we all enjoyed ourselves exceed-
ingly, this visit being their first.  They gave
good  timely instructions, and the sisters
feel more encouraged to persevere in the cause
they have espoused.  Sister E. R. Snow or-
ganized a Primary Association, and the chil-
dren are very much interested in their meet-
ings, and they will long remember the good
instructions given them by the sisters.  Many
of the brethren attended the meeting, and
were pleased with what they heard.
	We also have a Y. L. M. I. Association, and
the young sisters seem to appreciate their
privileges in meeting together for mutual
benefit.
	Several copies of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
are taken here and duly appreciated.  We
think it a great blessing and help.  Every
mother in Israel should take it and read it.
	We tender our thanks to the sisters from Salt
Lake City for their respect, confidence and ex-
cellont advice received.
D. E. DUDLEY, [-]or. Sec'y.
WHITLEY, ONTARIO, CANADA,
Aug. 22, 1879.
ESTEEMED SISTER WELLS:
	I feel under obligations to you for your kind
ness in forwarding to me regularly the EXPO-
NENT.  Not only have I been comforted in its
perusal, but it has enabled me to entertain my
lady friends through reading from its co umns.
In conversing with the women of this country,
I find them far behind the times.  Woman's
rights being a question that has not agitated
the masses here, and many view it is a step-
ping up into a plane that they are not designed
to occupy by Deity.  As I am quite a woman's
rights advocate, I have some amusing times,
w[-]en I tell them, that many of the existing
evils of the age if ever remedied must be ac-
complished by them, or their sex, they stare at
me.  I state as my firm belief, that the evils of


intemperance, corruptions in office, and the
eradication of the social evil, can and will
only be accomplished by and through the in-
fluence of woman, and men who view woman
in her true light and the noble sphere God has
designed her to occupy. The minutes of a
mass meeting held by our women last fall, with
the bold and fearless statements there made
and the testimonies given, have aided me very
much in my labors this summer. The idea
that we practice polygamy only for selfish
gratificatiou I am happy to say has forever ex-
ploded in the minds of many with whom I
have conversed.
	I notice wherever I go in this dominion the
young ladies are very numerous, and in watch-
ing the young folks out walking, I am sur-
prised to see the girls generally form compa-
nies of two or three, or groups, to the exclusion
of the young men. Now, having some slight
knowledge of human nature, I was surprised
at witnessing this. On inquiry of one of my
cousin's, residing in Walberton, Bruce Co., I
was informed that most of the young men's
characters are usually so tainted that honora-
ble girls will not be seen in their company.	*
*[-]*	My cousin is raising a family of eight
children, chiefly boys, but neither he nor his
wife can fully sense the danger that exists
around them. To-day darkness covers the
minds of the people.
*		*		*		*		*		*
	With a hope that success may crown your
every [-]ffor[-] to emancipate woman and assist
in bringing her up to her proper standard and
sphere, is the desire of your brother in the
cause of regeneration.
							W. H. S.


