No. 3 of Vol. I, and think the young editor
deserves great credit for making the paper so
interesting, We are glad Logan has a local
paper, as it is a thriving town and can surely
make it a success financially. Newspapers
help in a great degree towards educating the
masses of the people.

	WE ARE pleased to be able to announce to
our readers and the many warm friends of
Mrs. Zina D. Young, that she arrived in Salt
Lake City on Sunday, Sept. 14, after an ab-
sence of ten weeks, much improved in health.
Miss Susa Young also returned with her. These
two ladies visited San Francisco and the Sand-
wich Islands, remaining on the island of Laie
some little time. We expect to have some in-
teresting things to publish in our next concern-
ing their tour.

	WE WISH the sisters who are storing grain to
report as soon as convenient after they have
made arrangements for the fall donations.
And every Society, or Ward, where the sisters
own a granary, or bin, for storing their own
wheat will please report particulars,—the ma-
terial of which it is built, the size and capacity,
and the cost, and also how the means was ob-
tained, whether by donation, or otherwise.
Report what quantity of the wheat has been
gleaned, and whether the Society own land on
which they raise wheat, or beans. Please give
full particulars in brief.

	THE RELIEF Society of the Fourteenth Ward
of this city have completed a granary for stor-
ing wheat. It was dedicated on Monday, Sept.
21, by Pres. Angus M. Cannon and his Coun-
selor, Joseph E. Taylor. Mrs. M. I. Horne,
her Counselors, Secretary, and members of the
Society were present. After the dedication,
refreshments were served in the building. I[-]
is large enough to hold 2,000 bushels of wheat,
and cost about $350. Who will say women

[Column 2]
have not energy and enterprise, when from
North to South and from East to West these
granaries are being constructed and filled with
grain by Mormon women? "By their works
ye shall know them."

	THE LAND OF SHINEHAH, a poem of eight
pages, written by Elder O. F. Whitney, is be-
fore us. It was composed during his stay in
Kirtland, when on a mission to the Eastern
States, and is dated, Nov., 1877. The sub-
heading says: "The writer of the poem is re-
presented as contemplating the Kirtland of to-
day and contrasting it with its condition forty
years ago." It contains some very tender pas-
sages, embodying truths and events of actual
occurrence. Joseph the Prophet coming to
Kirtland, the people leaving there, its down-
fall, the Temple, the mobs, afterwards the
flight of the prophet, and other things
are poetically woven into this sublime poem.

"Fair Shinehah! thy land so desolate—
A wounded bird deserted by its mate,
The plumage from its bleeding body torn,
A picture is of loneliness forlorn."

	These pathetic lines will speak to the hearts
of those who remember Kirtland in its former
glory and pride.

	OUR SISTER, Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, returned
on Thursday from a visit to California, where
she has been spending the summer, in excel-
lent health and delighted with the climate and 
the eternal verdure of the Southern coast. It
is hard times for the poor, especially in San
Francisco, and suicides are common. Mrs.
Hewlings lectured twice in Santa Barbara on
"Life among the Mormons," and disappointed
her audiences by speaking in their favor. She
gave them a brief outline of the origin and
growth of Mormonism, the small handful from
which had sprung this wonderful people, whose
principles and institutions had become first a
national, and then an international question.
Facts such as she portrayed, coming from one
who was not herself a Latter-day Saint, elicited
much surprise, and many came to converse
with her and make inquiries, which gave her
a good opportunity to speak in behalf of a peo-
ple many of whom she is intimately acquaint-
ed with, and for whom she entertains the high-
est esteem. Mrs. Hewlings is on her way East,
and only called enroute to say good bye to the
dear ones here. She has resided in this city
for seven years.

	REPORT OF the re-organization of the Ladies'
Relief Society of the Twelfth Ward. A meet-
ing was held on the 13, of July 1879. in the
Twelfth Ward School House for the purpose of
organizing the Ladies' Relief Society. Present
Bishop Alexander Pyper, Couns. John
Druce and Leonard G. Hardy; also Pres. D. O.
Calder, of Salt Lake Stake, Bishop L. W. Hardy
and the members of the ward. After a highly
interesting address from Bishop A. C. Pyper
upon the harmony and unity that should
cha[-]acterize the members of the Ward in their
social and organized capacities; he dwelt upon
the interest and care he, his counsel and the
leading men of the Ward had taken in the
appointment of such ladies as would qualify
themselves to proform the responsiblb duties
of their respective callings. He had a personal
interview with these ladies who cheerfully
consented to take upon themselves and ac-
quiesce in the appointment.
	The Bishop and his Counselors, assisted by
Prest. Calder and Bishop L. W. Hardy, set apart
the following named sisters, President; Mrs
Julia Hooper, Cou[-]selors Mrs. Jemima Midg-
ley and Mrs. Eliz[-] Hooper; Secretary, Mrs.
Ellen Winder; Treasurer, Mrs. Martha Wells.
The meeting adjourned to a future day to further

[Column 3]
consult in relation to the appointment of lady
teachers.
			ROBERT CAMPBELL, Secretary.


