BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	In this chapter I purpose entering more
fully into details, and give some of the es-
tablished rules and regulations in society at
the present day. All of us who have kind
hearts and generous impulses desire to be
sufficiently acquainted with the forms of
social etiquette to ensure the respect of
those with whom we associate by main-
taining our own.
	I know that it is customary among ladies
to like a little gossip about other people's
affairs, and from this very source much
evil springs, and we all profess to despise
it, yet it really seems to render a person
for the time attractive, but upon mature
thought, instead of winning friends it
causes people to draw very disadvantageous
conclusions in regard to those who carry
scandal. This is one of the evils which
should be discarded by us as a people, and
discountenanced, that it may not be incor-
porated in the characters of our children.
	Most persons whose opinion is worth re-
garding have sufficient good, sound com-
mon sense and penetration to see through
the flimsy veil of the envious, or the slan-
derer. It is said by those who have the
best opportunities for observing, that this
is the age of scandal; that there never was
a time when newspapers and journalists
pandered to a low and vitiated taste as at
present. It has ceased to be extraordinary
to deliberately defame and recklessly as-
sault the reputation of those who come be-
fore the public. The continual recurrence
of a thing blunts the susceptibilities; and
we become accustomed to look upon it with
less horror, however dreadful it might at
first have seemed. 
	Every writer, journalist, editor, author,
whatever position in a literary way he or

[Column 2]
she may occupy as regards the public press,
should be careful of the privileges extend-
ed to them, and have some high and sacred
notions of honor and esteem for their fel-
low-beings.
	A writer in the Washington "Republi-
can" says of a certain class of writers: "It
is their office to defame virtue and despoil
worth to feed on the failings of the good,
and fatten on the follies of the weak. Vile
themselves, without a sentiment of honor
or decency, they cannot endure to see
others respected for traits they do not pos-
sess, or beloved for conduct of which they
are incapable. Hence they make the es-
tate of purity the prey of their piracies
and the object of their plunder. Nothing
is so sacred as to deter them, and no emi-
nence is beyond their attack. Is there a
man who stands high in the estimation of
the public, by reason of the excellence of
his character and the quality of his endow-
ments, they rest not until they have
smirched the one and disparaged the other
by the fiendish devices of inuendo and in-
sinuation, which constitute the weapons of
the guilty ambush they keep in perpetual
reserve for those they dare not openly as-
sail for fear of popular resentment. Lives
there a woman whose fair fame transcends
the plane of ordinary attainments, because
of special attributes, accomplishments and
graces, all the precedents of successful cal-
umny and falsehood are ransacked for sug-
gestion of means to depose and humiliate
her, without subjecting the authors of the
detraction to the punishment they deserve."
	It would be well for us all if we could
cultivate that "charity that thinketh no
evil." Perhaps if we understood each other
other better we should be more careful in
speaking of another's weaknesses, or even
faults, and ready to make excuses for those
whom we now unknowingly condemn.
	Society can never be in its relations and
bearing upon our lives what it ought to be,
until the love of gossip is dispelled; and
those who wish to elevate its tone and
maintain a high standard of excellence
should frown it down and refuse to listen
to it. Dr. Holland tells us that "the cure
for gossip is culture."
	We shall now review the rules for visits,
or ceremonious calls, which Mrs. Ward
gives, and trust our readers have sufficient
intuition to know what is best suited to
them. "American men are excused from
morning calls, because their days are occu-
pied with business as a general rule; but
in order that they may be remembered by
those who entertain, their cards represent
them and are left by some member of their
respective families, or by some acquaintance
calling.	*	*	When a gentleman is not
admitted the first time he calls, he leaves
his card for the married lady of the house,
one for her husband, both turned down,
and one folded acress the middle for the
remaining members of the family—daugh-
ters and sons." Upon subsequent occasions
he leaves one card so folded as to imply it
is left for the family. "After any invita-
tion he calls, or sends a card; or, if a mar-
ried man, his wife calls and leaves his card
with her own. If one of the cards bears
their names together, as, 'Mr. and Mrs.
——,' this card turned down is left for the
lady, if she is not receiving; and one with
the husband's name alone is left for the
host, not turned unless he has called in
person.	*	*	*	No lady leaves her own
card upon a gentleman, nor a card bearing
her name with that of her husband. If
guests are stopping in the house, cards must
also be left upon them; or, if calling upon
guests, where you do not know the host

[Column 2]
and hostess, you must inquire if the ladies
are at home, and, not being admitted, leave
cards for the host and hostess, as well as
for the guests. *	*	* There are many
people who give evidence of lack of proper
instruction in their youth, by making use
of the house of those who are strangers to
them, with as much freedom and as little
courtesy towards its occupants as if it were 
a hotel. *	*	* After an interchange of
cards the acquaintance drops, unless fol-
lowed by an invitation upon one side or the
other. When a first invitation is not ac-
cepted, and no reason is given for it other
than that expressed in the usual form of
regret, the invitation ought not to be re-
peated. Among the people of the highest
cultivation it is binding to show ones' ap, 
preciation of a first invitation by a cordial
acceptance, and by allowing nothing that
can be controlled to prevent one from go-
ing. Still circumstances may be such as to
make it impossible, and then an informal
note of explanation is courteous." These
are what are termed general calls, as also
are calls made upon persons on one's visit-
ing list who have been absent from their
homes, either for a long time, or for a lim-
ited time, as for the summer. In these
cases the younger calls first upon the elder,
or where the ages are about the same, those
who return first in the autumn call first up-
on those who arrive later, unless there has
been some remissness during the previous
year, when the one who owes the custom-
ary visit after an invitation calls first, with-
out reference to age, or time of return.

(To be continued.)


