AMAZONIAN LILY.

	Every body is interested in something
wonderful, and as I have seen something
truly wonderful, I will endeavor to present
it to you through my eyes.
	The Victoria Regia, the Amazonian lily,
has caused a great deal of excitement and
pleasure, and thousands of people have
been to view this gigantic flower, which
has been in bloom in the Golden Gate con-
servatory for three nights. The queen lily
is the only one in the Golden Gate, and is
considered to be the queen, and is the largest
flower in the floral kingdom. It occupies
apartments by itself. The leaves are 6 x 8
ft. in diameter, and are a dark rich green
with many veins. They have raised rims
and one would suppose the leaf would be-
come filled with water, but nature has pro-
vided for all emergencies. There is a
groove in the centre of the leaf which
causes the water to run off. There is a
tube that furnishes air to nourish this plant.
It is of the Nymthaera class, having no
bulb. This wonderful flower, when in
bloom, is a marvel of loveliness, and is an
interesting study to those fond of botany.
	When the bud appears upon the surface of
the water it resembles a wild rose in shape,
but very much larger. It requires three
days for the bud to mature after it appears
on the water, and in the evening at 9 p.m.,
it bursts forth with a loud report, and an
odor resembling the pineapple pervades the
room. In its first stage it is a cream white
and its petal of a thick waxy nature. In
its second stage it is blush pink, and in its
third, rose red; it blooms but three times
and always at night. It is eight times as
large as a large rose and is very double. In
its third stage it does not remain open so
long, but withers and dies, and the seed
begins to grow and is like a pea, and inside
the pea is a dry powder.
	A raised platform has been constructed
to afford a better view of the pond, on the 
surface of which repose these gigantic cir-
cular leaves with their curious raised rims.
The appearance of the leaves on the water
is far more striking when viewed by an


artificial light than when seen in the day
time. The leaves are capable of sustaining
a weight of eighty pounds. There are two
leaves on exhibition in the fair, and every
day a young miss of this weight is placed
upon the leaf. During the blooming of this 
queen lily we were blessed with the finest
moonlight nights I ever saw here, and it
was warm and delightful. The conserva-
tory and the path leading to it were gaily
lighted with Chinese lanterns, and just in
front of the Lily was an electric light
	Thousands of people walked out, a dis-
tance of six miles and the street cars were
more than three times full, but always
room for one more. We had to make
changes as we would if going to Europe,
and rush more to get a seat; I made eight
changes, but I saw the wonder if I did get
jammed nearly to death. There doesn't
seem any place for little folks in a crowd.
I'm very anxious to know who is here writ-
ing for the EXPONENT, and allow me to 
compliment her for her well written article.
	The park in which is the conservatory
ends at the Cliff and will no doubt be fully
described by your correspondent, and she
may have anticipated me in my descrip-
tion, and have given you a more accurate
delineation of this wonderful Amazonian
lily.
	I think the last number of the EXPONENT
super excellent.
								NELLIE.
	San Francisco, Sept. 5, 1879.


