Your Thirty Slaves Take away all our machinery and steam and electrical power, and it would require 3,000,000,000 hard-working slaves to duplicate the work done by Americans. The use of power and machinery gives to every man, woman, and child in our country the equivalent of 30 slaves. This is figured out in the latest bulletin of the Smithsonian Institution. Why envy the nobleman, back in ancient Egypt or Bagdad, with 30 slaves toiling for him? He had swift-running slaves bring him fish from the ocean and bird tongues from the mountains. Today, w: th a few dimes, you can get a tin can of shrimp brought from Japan, a package of dates from Syria, a bag of nuts from Brazil, sardines from Norway. Your slaves?machinery and power?bring them. For a few cents you can buy enough matches to start 1000 fires. When the ancient nobleman's fire was doused by the rain he shivered in the cold until slaves made a blaze by friction or brought firebrands from afar.. Plenty of old settlers, now living, can recall the days before matches, when they ran a mile from the nearest neighbor's with a shovelful of blazing coals. Your real wealth is measured, not in money, but in the number of things you obtain to eat and wear, the ease with which you get them, the comforts and conven'ences of your home, metheds of transportation and amusement. It is only a few centuries since even the richest kings had no sewers, running water, rapid transportation, or any of the commonplace things that brighten the lives of all today. Each year adds to our comforts and conveniences. A few years ago only the richest men in town had autos. Now there's an attto for every twelve Americans. Henry Ford is experimenting with a mixture of glue, cotton and formaldehyde. He expects to make a powerful building material out of these. If he succeeds, he'll stamp flivvers out like doughnuts. That seems like a dream. But it is merely typical of the processes of mass production that have given the average person luxuries that were denied kings of antiquity. Measured in ancient standards, we are all kings today, with the slaves of electricity, steam and machinery toiling constantly for us.?Haverhill Gazette. National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Hener J. Grant, President. AntHony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuarces W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burron, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C, Stronc, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine COOLING BREEZES Anytime, Anywhere No need to suffer with the heat this summer?buy an' ELECTRIC FAN And be comfortable all the time! Utah Power & Light Co, "Efficient Public Service" Mention Relief Society Magazine Lillian Wirth Maternity Home 1820 South 5th East Salt Lake City, Utah A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates Call Hyland 606 for information THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN AT McINTYRE'S SUUNUAUTHUOOUEGUOUAUORSTIUNN Engraved Wedding Announcements You will find that wedding invitations which attract you at once by their unusual beauty and style are from? The House of Pembroke Samples sent on request. Mail orders promptly cared for. Reasonable Prices To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference,.. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely,  East 3rd South Salt Lake City To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for your Expiration Ice Cream: 'Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE. WAS..3223 - P. O. BOX 17/3: ?. SALT LAKE CITY Service Press Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044. A Page for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 228 West Broadway Salt Lake City Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock  GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS, REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used. In Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed, Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. | "T am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this BUREAU OF INFORMATION| Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made' Western Scout Shoes Made of solid leather throughout. Comfortable to wear?have a good appearance?guaranteed to give satisfaction FOR THE MINER FOR THE LABORER - FOR THE FARMER FOR THE MECHANIC Or any other man whose work demands strong, serviceable shoes We make them in three grades of elk leather, and also in a split leather, with and without chrome soles?in chocolate, pearl, black. Occasion to thank you for your kindness." Temple Block. Salt Lake City STURDY CHILDREN Growmg children require wholesome nourishing foods. Pierce's Pork and Beans satisfy their keen appetites and makes Kiddies glow with ruddy health. You'll appreciate the ease, too, with which they can be served in hot weather. Ins's? On Pierce's. Packed by? Sanabrly Packed ~ Everlastindly Backed, 4Utah. Canning & You Don't Know Eeens Till You've Tried Pierce's Time 'Temperature NOW A PART OF ALL RECIPES With a Lorain Oven Heat Regulator you tell the oven just what you want. No guess work. A Gas Range With Loran Regulator Gives You. Better Food to Eat?Less Trouble to Cook Utah Gas & Coke Go. Mention Relief Society Magazine 351 So. Main Phone Was. 705  JUSTE Lf  YN awit ATs OS ag Lf Se Saw COTTE TBS Was. 912 ey | Was. 912 es ?F inviraTio? A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the Peopleof Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 Mention Religf Society Magazine S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas.