EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 333 repeated, and then asked in an interested way if he were the F. L. Dixon who had been contributing articles on Rural School Problems to the State Educational Magazine. While Mr. Dixon, to my amazement, was modestly admitting this and receiving the old gentleman's effusive approbation, Marie hissed in my ear, "Will you walk a little faster," Said the whiting to the snail, "There's a porpoise close behind me And she's treading on my tail!" This familiar quotation was so apt, with the stout, porpoiselike creature impatiently shoving Marie, that I giggled right out in meeting. I could have bitten off my tongue the next instant, I was so afraid Mr, Dixon would think I was laughing at the old gentleman's fuss over him. I could not see his face but his ears, I noticed, were very red. I didn't see anything more of him until the dance, to which I went with Marie and Jack Tuttle, the fellow she is going to marry.. 1 intended to apologize to Mr. Dixon for the ill-timed giggle; but he came, as soon as I arrived, and gravely repeated the rest of the quotation from "Alice" as a request to dance: "See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance! They are waiting on the shingle; will you come and join the dance? Will you, won't you? Will you, won't you? Will you join the dance? Will you, won't you? Will you, won't you? Won't you join the dance?" I made two or three discoveries about Mr. Dixon this past week. For one thing, he is quite distinguished-looking in his quiet way. Not tall and dark, like?some people, but of medium height and slender, and looks excellent in evening clothes. Then his hair isn't gray from age, as I once supposed, but must have turned prematurely gray from sickness or trouble and lends an air of distinction to his still youthful face. I am sure he isn't more than thirtyfive, though I might have guessed him fifty a month ago. The fact is, I never really looked at the man till I saw so much attention paid him at the Institute. Can it be that he is burying himself in country schools for the purpose of studying conditions there? And what on earth does he say about Primary teachers, who don't amount to much at their best, and often aren't at their best? My blood runs cold! I am going to concentrate, on making a good impression o: that man, or rather on correcting the bad one I must certainly have made! How glad the school children will be! February 15?I've been so busy imparting knowledge, writing reams of unsalable stuff, and making a good impression on Mr. 334. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Dixon (in a strictly professional way, of course) that I have neglected my diary?haven't recorded any heart-throbs for nearly a month; but if there had been anything of importance happen, I should have recorded that fast enough! This means, of course, that I have never heard a word of a certain dark-eyed young doctor since he cast me and my belongings on the morning train for Pine Valley, six weeks ago! Mother, in the most provoking way, writes long letters, concerned chiefly. With the dear Professor's doings and 'sayings, and never mentions our next-door neighbor's whereabouts. I hate to ask outright?the Professor is always scenting a romance! I suppose Margaret has married him by this time. (Not the Professor, of course!) Just like her! To nab him the first time he showed his head in her neighborhood again! All right for you, Margaret! I only hope he turns out to be a regular bear, and makes you regret your piggishness a thousand times over! There! I feel better, now; what a comfort a diary is! March 15?I was surprised on the Friday afternoon after my last entry, to have Mr. Dixon come into my room as I was straightening my desk for the night and ask rather diffidently if I would like a tramp over the hills with him. He had noticed that I looked rather pale lately, and fancied I sat too much over my writing. Now, who told you that I am trying to write?" I asked indignantly, for I thought I had kept that little matter a secret, but he answered with a smile that he had seen several of my little things in the magazines, and liked them immensely. Then he went on to tell me that he was gathering material for some articles on the flora and fauna of this region??hence the walks. Well, I went and came home for Mrs. Lowell's early supper really refreshed, going at my evening's work with more interest than for many a day. Since then the tramps have become almost an institution. Mr. Dixon is an interesting talker and I've learned a lot of things about natural history that I would never have known otherwise. I asked him if he is a naturalist in disguise, and he owned that he is getting material for a book, and chose a country school that he might have the opportunity to study his subject at first hand. I am dying of curiosity to know something of his personal history, but never talks personalities, and of course I can't ask. April 3?School will be out in three weeks, O, joy! And yet Vil suse miss the interesting times I've had with Mr. Dixon and all the dear little pests I've struggled with this past winter; even Mrs. Lowell's ""Neow, Honey, make out a meal, don't be so dainty!" that has vexed me so many times. I had a love letter today from Johnny Hackett, the school tough?he pressed it into my hand as the line marched out, eon EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 335 "Dere Techer "I luv yu ef I doan ack like it. It maks me cri to thinck school will clos so sune. I am shur sorry I hav bin so onerly. Am goin to do beter. I will allus luv yu., 'Yur dere pupal, "J. H." There, dare to say I am not attractive enough to inspire the divine passion!. April 10?A whole budget of home letters tonight. One from Mother and the Professor full of news about home affairs, the repainting of the house, Mother's room done over, the garden they are planting, and the flock of new Rhode Island Reds. One from Inez full of clothes and views and lovely times and, incidentally, Henley. But the most exciting of all from Lisbeth, who writes to announce her engagement to her music teacher, who isn't a longhaired Italian or a German with a bay window, as she says she knew I would at once imagine, but a real one-hundred-percent! American, with a first-class family and world's of ambition. It was a real treat to get news of them all at once; but since supper while I have been sitting up here alone in my room reading the letters all over again I must confess I've felt more forlorn and Ugly Ducklingish than ever. Everyone seems so full of happy plans and none of them seem to include me?at any rate my dropping out would not change them one whit. How nice it would be to be first with somebody! Ugly Ducklings don't change into Swans, I've found that out! They just. Keep on being Ugly Ducklings to the end of the chapter, and nobody cares! I fancy I see people going off and forgetting all about Inez or Lisbeth! But perhaps I had best be satisfied with what comes my way, not always be trying to stretch my ugly wings and follow the larks! April 17?Big preparations for closing exercises in the school. Inez writes she is sending me a dress??the very latest?to dazzle the natives with (her own words) before I turn my back on them forever. She evidently takes it for granted that my little attempt at teaching is over. I'm not so sure?I shall teach till my literary wings are strong enough for a flight into that enchanted region and then if I'm successful?who knows, I may be "the clever, distinguished Miss Wallace" long after Inez and Lisbeth are humdrum married ladies with prosy, unromantic husbands! Signed, Old Sour Grapes.  Part IV April 24?-So much to write I don't know where to start; but I'm far too wide awake and excited to go to bed, and J want to record all the wonderful happenings before the new wears off. Our Closing Exercises went off with a bang! Parents invited, children delighted, teachers excited?that is the Primary teacher, who was in a fever from dawn till now. And with cause! After the morning session was over, reports signed and distributed, books put away. For the summer, and all the hundred odds and ends attended to, there was still an afternoon of preparation for the evening entertainment. Mr. Dixon had pleaded ignorance and total inability to help with this, but promised to do all my despised report making if I would prepare the big "Do" alone. I was to use all the available talent in his room as well as my own. Now, I love that sort of thing, but it was an extremely weary, flushed, disheveled girl that concluded the final rehearsal at four p. M. And sent the children home for their suppers and to make their toilets for the evening. Mr. Dixon came out of the little office as the children filed out, with all the neatly finished yearly reports in his hands. He looked startled at sight of me and said with more impulsiveness than I have ever heard him speak, '""How tired you look!" I was really so tired that his sympathetic tone almost brought tears to my eyes. And when he asked if a little walk wouldn't refresh me before the evening's ordeal, I said yes out of gratitude, though I wanted nothing but to go home and have a hot bath and a long quiet hour in my room. But he seemed to read my thought for when we reached the willow grove that fringes the tiny stream that runs past the school house, he asked if I would like to rest there while he told me a story. If he noticed the amazement in my face at this request, he made no sign but found me a seat on an old log and then sat on the ground below me so that I couldn' t see his face. Then without looking at me he told me the "story." It was the usual story of an ambitious country boy seeking life and adventure and finding disillusionment. He had been so full of wonderful dreams and when he met "her" (the inevitable her), she had seemed the most golden dream of all. It had been unbelievably wonderful to find she loved him (or thought she did), and her love actually seemed to stand the test of poverty with a struggling student for a whole year. Then she had left and he had disappeared too, to give her grounds for the divorce she wanted. (Although he did not say, I thought perhaps he could have found the grounds, but would not). This had all been over, years ago,