VOL. XVI JUNE, 1929 No. 6
Relief Society Conference
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its annual conference April 3 and 4, 1929, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge, presiding over the general officers' meeting and stake presidents' meeting, and both general sessions. Eleven meetings were programmed, also the presidents' breakfast, the reception in honor of President Clarissa S. Williams, and the meeting of the mission presidents and former presidents.
The conference opened with the general officers' meeting on Wednesday morning, for stake officers, board members, and mission presidents, the attendance being perhaps the largest that the Relief Society has yet had. The program as printed and distributed to the various stakes was carried out in every detail. Representatives from 99 out of the 101 stakes, and 5 missions were present. The roll call showing the following representation: General Board members, 19; stake and mission officers, 561, including stake presidents, 99, counselors 117, secretary-treasurers 55, other board members, 285; mission presidents, 5; making a total of 580.
The seven department meetings were held on Wednesday afternoon, with capacity audiences participating. For the first time since October 7, 1897, the Relief Society general sessions were held in the Tabernacle. This was not the usual practice at that time so that in holding the conference in this building, the Society is inaugurating a new policy to be followed hereafter. Ushers, provided by the six city stakes?Ensign, Granite, Grant, Liberty, Pioneer and Salt Lake, gave excellent service in meeting the people and handling the large number in attendance.
The music was excellent. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, director of the Relief Society choir, and Miss Edna Coray, organist, did their usual fine work; besides there were special numbers from the stakes, and from local artists, and two of the
 
tabernacle organists, Edward P. Kimball and Alexander Schreiner.
The reception on Wednesday evening, a most delightful affair, was held in the beautiful auditorium of the Bishop's Building, tastefully decorated for the occasion. Here the host of friends and Relief Society workers had the opportunity of meeting again with our dear former president, Clarissa S. Williams, and also the new president, Louise Y. Robison, the First Presidency, other Church officials, and members of the General Board. Able committees managed this affair, the city stake presidents acting as hostesses.
One of the most successful meetings of the conference, the presidents' breakfast, was held on Thursday morning at the Hotel Utah. It took the form of a round table discussion of important problems confronting Relief Society workers.
With a record-breaking attendance, the inspirational and instructive department meetings contributed strongly to the high spiritual uplift that pervaded the entire conference proceedings.
Officers' Meeting
Morning Session
President Louise Y. Robison
My beloved sisters: If I only had words to express my gratitude to you this morning I am sure it would be something greater than anyone has ever done; but I trust that you can sense my appreciation, as well as that of my counselors, the secretary and the General Board, for your loyalty and support. From the time we were called last Fall, messages have continued to come in, expressing loyalty and love. We cannot tell you what this means to us in carrying on the work, and we can only pray that you will have the same fine support from your ward workers that you have given to us.
I am sure you are missing Sister Williams this morning, just as we are. You will be happy to hear that her health is much improved. The reception in her honor will be given here on this floor, but we shall have the board room open downstairs, and we ask you just to make yourselves at home. Our hostesses tonight will be the city stake presidents.
We recognize conspicuously among the other outstanding things that you blessed sisters have done this winter, your fine co-operation in pushing needed social legislation. Throughout the State of Utah the sisters were asked to circulate petitions to be sent to the legislature asking for a home for our feeble-minded. The response was wonderful. We have been told by prominent people, and by the officers of the Mental Hygiene Society, that had it not been for the Relief Society's efforts, this piece of work
 
could not have been accomplished; and we desire to thank you heartily.
Our message to you today, my dear sisters, is that we are trying just as hard as we know how, to carry on the work that has been established so beautifully by our mothers and the former leaders in Relief Society. We have all confidence that you will do your best, in your individual stakes. If there is anything with which the General Board can help you, we shall be most happy to co-operate. Call on us; make this your headquarters when you are in Salt Lake. Come in and talk your problems over. No problems are too small; they are all big, if you are interested in them.
In part we realize what the sisters have accomplished; but I think only our Father in heaven knows the full extent of your work. We have gratifying figures and splendid reports, but I believe the real spirit of Relief Society work is never recorded. I think that the angels of heaven are the only ones to keep the record of what is being done.
A matter of business that has not been brought before the people for some time has now reached a point where we should like to call the attention of the president, and especially of the sister on the stake board who has charge of the Magazine work, to the order blanks that we send to the wards, without charge. Encourage the sisters in the wards to use these blanks accurately, and to note any change of address. If they write down when the subscriptions are to begin, we keep them on file and they are of great help to us.
Many fine advertisements appear in our Magazine. If those who write in from out of town to any who advertise with us, or if you are in the city and are making purchases, it will help us and strengthen us greatly if you will mention that you saw the advertisement in the Relief Society Magazine, and I believe you will be given better attention as well.
Reports coming in from many of our stakes inquire about holding meetings on Tuesday night with the other auxiliaries. In some of the stakes our officers have been perplexed and annoyed by these inquiries. Now, sisters, we have the word from the Presiding Bishopric that the Relief Societies are not to hold their meetings on Tuesday night unless it suits their convenience. During this conference, the general theme for the conference will be the up-building of our homes; and I feel that it is a mistake even to have Church duties conflict with our work for better homes.
Since there is a full program this morning, I just want to pray that the blessing of the Lord will be upon this audience, that the beautiful prayer offered by Sister Eleanor J. Richards may be realized by all. I humbly ask that the Lord will protect our loved ones at home, and that He will be with us here, that we may receive the things that will be for our best good.
 
ANNUAL REPORT
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary
It is my great pleasure, sisters, to give you a brief statement of the annual report for 1928. Reports from the various stakes and missions have been duly received and carefully audited. The statement that I shall make concerns simply a very few of the outstanding features; the report in detail will be furnished you in the May Magazine.
When one is engaged in a special piece of work, her attention naturally centers there; never before have I appreciated what the work of the secretaries of the various stakes and missions of the Relief Society organization really means. I thank sincerely all those fine secretaries who have so splendidly co-operated with the general office in this important labor.
The summary shows the total balance on hand, January 1, 1928, to be $171,794.72; total receipts during 1928, $302,817.17; total balance on hand and receipts, $474,611.89. The amount paid for charitable purposes was $100,836.76; the total disbursements were $298,402.44, leaving a balance, December 31, 1928, $176,209.45. The total assets amount to $1,042,754.13.
Number of ward conferences held, 1,171; teachers' visits made, 700,131; visits to the sick and homebound, 189,593; membership, 1927, 61,820; 1928, 62,550, an increase of 730. The membership includes 10,463 executive and special officers, 20,948 visiting teachers, and 31,139 lay members. The average attendance in 1927 was 22,590; in 1928, 24,775, an increase of 2,185. The amount paid for charitable purposes in 1927 was $100,105.39; in 1928, $100,836.76; an increase of $731.37.
As I have said before, we appreciate the secretaries, and hope to be of all possible service to them.
MRS. CAROLINE S. HYDE Former President, Australian Mission Relief Society
In standing before an audience of this kind, I feel very weak, as it is something I am not used to. But I know by the audience that the spirit of the Lord is here, and I am grateful to have the privilege of reporting the Australian mission.
Australia is a very beautiful country. There are many fine people there, and we have five Relief Society organizations fully organized, and although our membership is small, a good work is being done by the sisters there. Many of our members have to travel long distances in order to get to their meetings, and though transportation is very easy with the electric trains, street cars and bus system, yet travel takes much time and is expensive.
In Australia, owing to scattered conditions, we have no visiting teachers, and one of the presidency or a sister takes one day a month for
 
visits to worthy sisters who are not able to attend Society meetings. The five organizations of the Relief Society are located in Adelaide, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth, and Sydney. The distances between these towns is from 600 to 1,700 miles. The Relief Society mission president generally makes her visits during conference time so that she may have the privilege of traveling with the mission president. When we remember that Australia is larger than the United States, with about seven million people, it would be about the same as traveling from New York to Los Angeles, and holding conference half a dozen times during that distance.
The sisters are taking up the lessons in the Magazine in their meetings, and they appreciate them very much, especially the theology lessons. Many of the women are young in the gospel and young in the organization, and they take a great deal of interest in the lessons.
A short time before I left, there was a call from the children's hospital for a donation from all the churches, several hundred articles being wanted. The hospitals in Australia are kept up by donations, and make only small charges for service. One of the elders, operated on for appendicitis, was in a hospital for two or three weeks at a cost not exceeding $30.
The Relief Society in Western Australia made several articles and sent them to the children's hospital. Favorable comment was made, and not long after that, they were asked to join with other organizations in a bazaar and to share in the proceeds. The president of the mission thought this co-operation would be a very splendid thing because the Latter-day Saints would be able to reach a different class of people, and put their work and some of the principles of the gospel before them. These two little charitable acts have done a great deal of good, but a bitter feeling toward our Church still exists.
TEACHER TRAINING MEETING
Report by Mrs. Hazel N. Boyack, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society
It is indeed a pleasure to stand before you this morning, and I wish to bring to the General Board and to the sisters in this conference love and greetings from the Relief Society women of the Big Horn Stake. We want you to know we are one with you in heart and in the aims and purposes of this wonderful organization.
My theme this morning is the teacher-training class; I have been asked to speak on the way we carry it on in our stake. I think it a very progressive step in our organization. There are three points I should like to mention: first, it gives a personal touch to the visiting teachers' work that it has lacked before; secondly, it gives them a little added training; and thirdly, because
 
of the great number that this department can reach (in our stake 38% are visiting teachers), it enables this department, if carried on as it should be, to stimulate every member of our organization.
In the Big Horn Stake the winter has been severe, the thermometer going thirty and forty degrees below zero, and we have had much snow. In spite of that handicap, our work has improved every month. During January four out of nine wards reported 100%; the rest were up in the nineties. During February six out of the nine had 100%. One ward has had 100% for fifteen months?a remarkable record.
One other thing that I think has contributed much to the teachers' work is the visiting teachers' testimonials, with the ward presidents as hostesses. They serve perhaps a three-course luncheon, have snappy toasts and good music, and get a short response from each visiting teacher. These teachers go away with a determination to reach 100% in efficiency. This plan has worked very well, and the teachers feel that they are being noticed.
Report by Mrs. Julia E. Parry, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society
Having tried the new teachers' plan for the four months, we feel that it would be a splendid thing to have the sisters attend the one o'clock meeting for the inspiration that comes from these wonderful lessons. In our four city wards we have great success, some of the wards reporting 100% in attendance; but in the country wards it is different. In a farming community there is always a dinner to get for the men who are working and for the children who come in from school; therefore it is impossible to get the sisters to the one o'clock meeting. They are trying it out, and they think it a wonderful plan, but the hour that has been set is a little inconvenient. As a result, their attendance has not been so good. They feel that the discussion they have on the teachers' topic is very helpful, and their meetings have been some of the very best we have attended. We received strength and encouragement by meeting with the teachers and seeing the splendid faith they have in their meetings. They all feel the responsibility when we discuss the lesson. We do feel that this is a wonderful plan, but we are not satisfied with the way we are working it out. We feel that possibly we will have to change our hour. We feel that the teachers' work is one of the best, and we have willing women in our stake. We desire to support the General Board. We feel their sweet, lovely spirit towards us, and we enjoy meeting with them. We receive strength from them when we come to conference. We have the desire in our hearts to do all that they ask of us. We feel that the sisters with whom we work are very lovely and desire to do all that is asked of them.
 
Work and Business Meeting
Report by Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman, President, Utah Stake Relief Society
In Utah Stake we collect our charity fund probably a little differently than most of you do. Some years ago a community welfare department was established in our Relief Society. Twice a year, in April and in October, we make collections. Each ward is assessed according to its population and financial ability to pay. Last year our assessment for our sixteen wards was $4,860 and I may say that we always get 100% in, because the rich ward helps the poor ward. The work is handled from stake headquarters. Each ward has a social worker, or the president handles the social work and reports to the stake headquarters, and the money is distributed from the stake headquarters to the various social workers or presidents. Of course, our bishops aid in determining the help that should be given in the various wards. No money comes in on the second Tuesday of the month, that being taken care of previously. Our teachers give only their teachers' topic in the homes, and investigate what the needs are, which they report to the president.
About four years ago there were some who felt that a program should be arranged for this second Tuesday. This was done and was called the special activity program. In September the stake presidents of the Primary and the M. I. A. gave topics, telling what they hoped to do for our boys and girls. Many mothers are not acquainted with what their boys and girls are doing. The attendance in Primary and Mutual has increased through co-operation with the Relief Society. In October a Kensington was given, each member sewing for over-burdened mothers. In November the special activity program related to the spirit of Christmas and Christmas foods. In December the topic considered was how a mother may assist in habit formation and in the sex problems of her children. This topic was given at one of our group sessions. We divided our sixteen wards into five groups and a physician gave the instruction. The wards enjoy coming together, seeing sisters from other wards, and hearing a good program. It is a very good advertising medium for the Relief Society, bringing sisters who had not attended regularly. We planned another general sewing day in January; in February, a travelogue of foreign countries, each ward procuring someone who had traveled abroad to give the talk. In March we considered trees and birds, this topic being previously given in union meeting by two professors from the Brigham Young University. The topic for April was home improve-
 
ment and practical hints on home furnishings. In May, the book The Fundamentals of Prosperity, by Roger W. Babson, will be reviewed.
This is the fourth year we have tried this plan. You will notice that we arranged for two sewing days during this year's program, which must be just as well planned as the program for any other day. Our stake this year has made 192 quilts, 37 woven rugs, and 447 miscellaneous articles.
Report by Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society
I am happy to tell you how we put over the Work and Business Meeting in our stake. Of course we take it from an entirely different angle than does the Utah Stake. To me there are two main divisions of the work and business day?the business part, and the work part combined with the social.
In the business part of the meeting we have our opening exercises and our preliminary program, which I feel is a very necessary part of the work and business day, because in the business meeting we have not a great deal of business to transact. I would not have this program for the work and business meeting exceed thirty minutes, as the women are anxious to get to work, and feel that every minute taken from their work is a loss.
Nearly all the wards quilt. The women enjoy this as it lends the community spirit. Eight women usually comprise a quilting group, so that we must provide something for the other women to work on. In our union meeting we make suggestions of work, which the presidents carry into their wards. There should be two or three activities prepared for the work meeting, which is one of the most fundamental meetings we have for creating a community spirit. It requires preparation. Every detail must be planned ahead of time. When the women come, the sister in charge organizes them, every woman being taken care of immediately and started to work.
Social contact for the women is important. While we work we can visit and learn to honor and respect each other. One organization is typical: There was one quilt; twenty other women were making painted candles and artificial flowers. In another group, five or six elderly women were visiting, talking over old times, not working but getting social contact. In one ward at a most successful work meeting, there were nine members; two of the women were cutting up old stockings to make a cushion for the elders administering the sacrament to kneel on, and another for the bishop's chair. Others were unravelling old sweaters to be crocheted into an afghan. All were looking to see what could be done to help the community.