Women in the Utah Legislature

MRS. ARTHUR E. GRAHAM

As a representative of Salt Lake county, in the lower house of the state legislature, Mrs. Graham has the four-fold qualification of wife mother, active citizen and former legislator. She is the daughter of Samuel and Isabelle Bryson, of Bountiful, Utah, and the wife of Arthur Graham.

Twice she has been president of the Neighborhood House, in which capacity she acquired first-hand information on many of the educational and social needs of the community.

In the interest of children who require special care and training, she worked to place the State Industrial School under the school system. She secured money to buy machinery to be placed in the State Penitentiary, where prisoners are now engaged in the manufacture of over-alls, thus aiding in the support of their families. As a member of the Delinquency Committee of the State Board of Welfare she became familiar with the needs of the prisoners in the matter of employment.

MRS. W. MONROE PAXMAN

With several years of active service in business, education, community welfare, and the home, Achsa E. Paxman is exceptionally well-fitted to be a law-maker in the state.

She is the daughter of S. P. and Etta N. Eggertson, the wife of W. Monroe Paxman, of Provo, Utah, and the mother of five children.

After graduating from the public schools of that city, she attended the Brigham Young University and the University of Utah. Many positions, political and religious, have come to her in the course of her active life. In 1922, she was sent to represent Utah at the Pan American Convention of the League of Women Voters, at Baltimore, and in the fall of that year was appointed state president of the league. She was vice-chairman of the Republican state convention held in Salt Lake City, in 1924. In the Church she has acted at various times as stake president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and as counselor in the stake presidency of the Relief Society, both in Utah stake. She still holds this latter office.

MRS. CARL LLOYD SMART

Mrs. Smart is older than she looks, and makes no secret of her age. Idaho is the state of her birth, which occurred in Thatcher, December 12, 1887.

At the age of six, she went with her parents, the late Joseph and Margaret Petty Hendricks, to Logan, where she received her education in the grammar schools and at the Brigham Young college.

All her grandparents and great-grandparents were Utah pioneers of '48, '49 and '50. She is a "daughter" of the Mormon Battalion. Her ancestors were among the early settlers of America.

In 1908 she married Carl Lloyd Smart, the eldest son of the late Thomas Smart. Ten years later she accompanied her husband to the Eastern states where they both served as missionaries. Since their return to Utah, they have made their home in Salt Lake City.

MRS. N. A. DUNYON

Mrs. Dunyon is returning to the legislature for her second term of office, as representative from Salt Lake county, having made such a record as secured her renomination by her party.

A native of Salt Lake City, being the daughter of Mrs. Elizabeth Bonnemart, she received her early education in its public schools, later attending the St. Mary's academy and the University of Utah.

As chairman of Indian Welfare, a department of the State Federation of Women's Clubs, she has rendered distinctive service.

In the last legislature, she served on the Public Health and Education committees where she is said to have done excellent work. Mining interests also received her attention.