[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 15e | Category: Guide | Title: Supplement to October Theology Lesson and Outline of Guide Lessons for 1925]
Supplement to October Theology Lesson Published in August Magazine

In answer to the question: "Who were the 'ninety and nine' in the Parable of the Good Shepherd as recorded in Luke 15:2-7?" the following is submitted:

"A direct application of the parable appears in the Lord's concise address to the Pharisees and scribes: 'I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.' Were they, the ninety and nine, who, by self-estimation had strayed not, being 'just persons, which need no repentance?' Some readers say they catch this note of just sarcasm in the Master's concluding words. In the earlier part of the story, the Lord himself appears as the solicitous Shepherd, and by plain implication his example is such as the theocratic leaders ought to emulate. Such a conception puts the Pharisees and scribes in the position of shepherds rather than of sheep. Both explications are tenable; and each is of value as portraying the status and duty of professing servants of the Master in all ages."—Page 455 Jesus the Christ by James E. Talmage.

"Many have marveled that there should be greater rejoicing over the recovery of one stray sheep, or the saving of a soul that had been as one lost, than over the many who have not been in such jeopardy. In the safe-folded ninety and nine the Shepherd had continued joy; but to him came a new accession of happiness, brighter and stronger because of his recent grief, when the lost was brought back to the fold."—Page 390, Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage.

In keeping with what is known of the matchless teaching ability of Jesus we may think of his illustrations in reaching the various points of contact, in classes and individuals, consistently interpretable from more than one point of view.

To the Pharisees, were not the "ninety and nine" intended to represent that self-righteous class? To the disciples, the "ninety and nine" were no doubt considered as those who were safe in the kingdom, a constant joy to the Lord, but who would be relatively forgotten, for the moment, in the flood of joy that accompanied the rescue of a human soul. It would be an occasion when the joy of the triumph of the rescuer, and the joy of the presence of the rescued, meet and form a current of gladsomeness that, for the moment, sweep all other joys into forgetfulness.

This high tide of happiness occasioned by repentance will not, however, at once carry the repentant one to a place of permanent preference even equal to those who have not taken long the detour route to heaven.

It seems safe to say that to the self-righteous Pharisees the parable was a rebuke; they were to see themselves as the "ninety and nine." To the disciples the parable was a sermon on the value of a soul; they were to see the "ninety and nine" as angels in heaven joining in the rejoicing in which they were quite forgotten.

George H. Brimhall.

Outline of Guide Lessons for 1925
