[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 15c | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Literature - Emily Dickinson]

LESSON III
(Third Week in March)

Literature

EMILY DICKINSON

A few months ago the Literary Digest announced a new edition of Emily Dickinson's poems. Interest in Emily Dickinson had waned considerably, when all at once a revival of interest in her poems occurred in literary circles. So far reaching is this revival that publishers are willing to chance a new edition of her poems, feeling sure that they are taking no financial risk.

All this is not without reason. Today we have a type of poetry which we call new poetry. Many of our modern poets are of this school. Amy Lowell, the sister of the president of Harvard University, is conspicuous as a writer of the new poetry.

The new poetry favors colorful words, words full of suggestiveness; that is, words which arouse images of beautiful sights or beautiful sounds. The poets who write the new poetry put much emphasis on words of this sort. Emily Dickinson did just that thing forty or fifty years ago, but because she was somewhat alone in her method she did not attract the attention that she would do today, now that her style of writing has become the fashion of the hour, for all students of literature know that there are fashions in literature just as there are fashions in dress, and all women know that fashions in dress come and go, and often come back again.

Emily Dickinson was born in Amherst, the well known college town of the state of Massachusetts, Dec. 10, 1830, the year the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and died at Amherst, May 15, 1886.

Because it is difficult to find her poems in any except very complete libraries, we shall include some six or seven in this lesson, and trust to our readers to find additional biographical material elsewhere. If the task proves difficult, it is not of any great consequence, for Emily Dickinson's poems did not grow out of biographical situations, as did many of Longfellow's, but rather from observation and experience. This much is sure that, like Robert Burns the Scotch poet, and William Cullen Bryant, the American poet, she loved nature deeply; by that we mean she loved the birds, flowers and trees by which she herself was surrounded, and not the birds, flowers and trees, that grew in other lands.

It is one of the autumn months in which this lesson is being prepared, so we shall include her poem "Autumn," first of all:

The morns are meeker than they were,
The nuts are getting brown;
The berry's cheek is plumper,
The rose is out of town.
The maple wears a gayer scarf,
The field a scarlet gown,
Lest I should be old-fashioned
I'll put a trinket on.

You will note that many of the lines in this poem suggest color, a prevailing note of autumn; while she herself, feeling that she may be out of harmony with nature, resolves to put a dash of color into her costume.

It will likely be near the Spring time when the lesson is studied, so we include two of her bird poems, first, "The Robin," because it comes early in the spring; and second, "The Humming-Bird," since it is one of our summer birds:

The Robin is the one
That interrupts the morn
With hurried, few, express reports,
When March is scarcely on.

The Robin is the one
That overflows the noon
With her cherubic quantity,
An April but begun.

The Robin is the one
That, speechless from her nest,
Submits that home and certainty
And sanctity are best.

Note that in the last stanza of the poem the poet has the robin feel, above all else, the sanctity of home. It is not the morning song, nor the song at noon that is valued most by the bird, but the guarding of the nest.

THE HUMMING BIRD

A route of evanescence
With a revolving wheel;
A resonance of emerald,
A rush of cochineal;
And every blossom on the bush
Adjusts its tumbled head,—
The mail from Tunis probably,
An easy morning's ride.

The Humming-bird seems so thoroughly modern, that it is very difficult to feel that it was not written by one of our present-day poets. The last two lines, intimating that so swift is the flight of the bird that it could bring mail from Tunis in an easy morning ride, reminds us of how much more rapidly distance is covered by our flying machines than any other contrivance we have for travel.

Another poem, full of Summer, is "Out of the Morning:"

Will there really be a morning?
Is there such a thing as day?
Could I see it from the mountains,
If I were as tall as they?

Has it feet like water- lilies?
Has it feathers like a bird?
Is it brought from famous countries
Of which I have never heard?

Oh, some scholar! Oh, some sailor!
Oh, some wise man from the skies
Please to tell a little pilgrim
Where the place called morning lies!

Note the number of beautiful images this poem suggests to the sight:

IN THE GARDEN

A bird came down the walk,
He did not know I saw;
He bit an angle-worm in halves
And ate the fellow raw.

And then he drank a dew
From a convenient grass,
And then hopped sidewise to the wall
To let a beetle pass.

He glanced with rapid eyes
That hurried all abroad,
They looked like frightened beads, I thought;
He stirred his velvet head

Like one in danger; cautious,
I offered him a crumb,
And he unrolled his feathers
And rowed him softer home.

Than oars divide the ocean,
Too silver for a seam,
Or butterflies, off banks of noon,
Leap, splashless, as they swim.

While Emily Dickinson is closely allied in her work with many of our present day poets, she is also like the New England poets in that frequently she implies a moral in her poems. A moral is implied in, "The Robin," in, "If I can stop one heart from breaking," and in Chartless." We shall conclude the lesson by quoting the last two.

IF I CAN STOP ONE HEART FROM BREAKING

If I can stop one heart from breaking,
I shall not live in vain;
If I can ease one life the aching,
Or cool one pain,
Or help one fainting robin
Into his nest again,
I shall not live in vain.

CHARTLESS

I never saw a moor,
I never saw the sea;
Yet know I how the heather looks
And what a wave must be.

I never spoke with God,
Nor visited in heaven;
Yet certain am I of the spot
As if the chart were given.

This exquisite little poem reveals the poets own faith in God and immortality, consequently we feel it supplies a fitting climax to the lesson.

Questions and Problems

1. How many months had the Church been organized when Emily Dickinson was born?
2. Suggest a group of images that appeal to the sight in the poem, "Autumn."
3. What do the words evanescence and cochineal mean?
4. Do you think the poets description of the movement of the humming bird particularly happy, when she speaks of it as, "A route of evanescence with a revolving wheel?"
5. Where is Tunis located?
6. Point out the analogy existing between the first and second stanzas in, "Chartless."
7. What are the implied morals in the three poems, "The Robin," "If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking," and "Chartless?"