[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: A Perfect Ending of an Imperfect Year Eunice Iverson Gardner]

A Perfect Ending of an Imperfect Day By Eunice Iverson Gardner Mrs. Robert Bates?familiarly known among her friends as Madge Bates?was "in the dumps." Usually she went about with a calm manner and a sunny face, but today her screwed-up countenance and fretful tone as she ceased her dishwashing long enough to button little Margaret's bloomers, foretold that a thunder-storm was brewing.

Margaret snatched up her straw hat from the floor and merrily skipped off to join her two noisy brothers who were playing "Indian" in the backyard.

It had been an extremely warm afternoon, even for May; and now that the cool evening was approaching, the children's spirit rose accordingly.

Mrs. Bates resumed her dishwashing with a resigned yet determined air.

Her ear caught the whistle of a boy as he sauntered past her gate.

He was whistling, "When you come to the end of a perfect day." This was the proverbial straw that broke the camel's back.

Madge hurriedly scoured the kitchen sink and hung up the dishpan with a bang, and then sank into the little rocker bursting into a flood of tears!

It had been such a trying day!

Both babies?eight-month-old twin girls?had been very restless during the night, and consequently her sleep had been greatly disturbed.

Toward morning they had fallen asleep, and Madge slipped out of bed at five o'clock in order to water the lawn at the appointed time.

First she made a fire in the kitchen range, so the bath water would be ready for the children as soon as they were awake.

A busy Saturday lay ahead of her, and she wanted to make the most of the precious morning hours.

Leaving the hose adjusted for the lawn, she went indoors again and mixed a batch of dough.

Then she prepared the cereal for the babies' bottles?it had to cook three hours in a double boiler before being strained, and mixed with the correct amount of sterilized milk, limewater, sugar, etc. She also started cooking the oatmeal for the breakfast.

After taking another peep at the babies to assure herself that they were still sleeping, she began putting the baby-flannels, etc., to soak in a solution of Lux and warm water.

Then she looked at her sewing machine, still burdened with mending from Tuesday's washing.

She hurriedly sorted out a pair of stockings for each child and mended them, and resolutely patched the knees of PERFECT ENDING OF AN IMPERFECT DAY 29 mothers?how to do my housework and care for two small children, and yet have any time for myself or outside interests.

"I had managed my mother's home at different periods and really liked housework, especially cooking.

But now it was a daily struggle to get ahead of household drudgery.

Try as I would, there seemed so many tasks to do, so many steps to take, and so many matters needing my attention and supervision.

Just as I felt I had reduced the cleaning to its lowest terms, I found the cooking, or the laundry work, or the mending, claiming the remainder of my time.

It was a continuous conflict to do justice.

To all the household tasks, and yet find enough time for the children.

And, between it all, I knew I was not doing justice to myself, and I was becoming more and more tired out.

Indeed, I was often without enough energy to dress up in the evening, and when'my husband came home, I was generally too spiritless to enjoy listening to his story of the day's work." Madge stopped reading long enough to give Bob a big squeeze, and take a spin around the room in a merry dance of delight.

"Oh, Bob, listen to this:" '"I found that the purpose of scientific management was to save time and effort, and to make things run more smoothly." Madge solemnly read the twelve titles of the chapters listed in the contents as follows: 1 The Labor-Saving Kitchen. 2. Plans and Methods for Daily Housework- 3. Helpful Household Tools. 4. Methods of Cleaning. 5. Food Planning for the Family. 6. The Practical Laundry: Methods and Tools. 7. Family Financing and Record-Keeping. 8. Efficient Household Purchasing. 9. The Servantless Household. 10. Management of Houseworkers. 11. Planning the Efficient Home. 12. Health and Personal Efficiency.

"Bob,. You're an angel!

How did you ever happen to get this book?

I feel as if I were Aladdin with his wonderful lamp.

Since the babies came I've often been discouraged with the housework.

Now I've found the magical key to unlock the door to all my household problems!

I do so want to be an efficient wife, mother, and homemaker, and still find time for personal advancement and community interests.

Now that you are going to be home all the time and the babies are older, and J have this wonderful book as a guide, I can do so much more, as I long to do.

I'm going to write a daily and weekly schedule to follow.

The babies necessarily will be the center around which everything must revolve.

Their feeding hours will govern my arrangements for the regular household duties.

I intend to make allowance for leisure time, too.

I have been stupid not to budget my time? 
 one of my most valuable possessions?and save so much worry and friction and time." Madge eagerly skipped through the alluring pages, then suddenly exclaimed: 'Today I was positively rude to the Relief Society teachers!' Now if I had only read this paragraph on interruptions, beforehand, I never would have been in such a frame of mind.

She read: "Again, so many women allow themselves to be needlessly affected by interruptions of one kind or anoth?r. The author has had women tell her, over and over, that the interruptions coincident with housekeeping work make them nervous and upset.

Now, this need not be true.

It is a physical fact that monotonous work is far more fatiguing than interrupted work.

The point is, not that the interruption makes the woman nervous, but her own mental attitude toward the interruption is the real cause of her irritation.

If she would relax and welcome the interruption, instead of allowing herself to be irritated by it, each interruption would only serve as a rest and change of work, and means of lessening tension, instead of increasing it." "Now, Bob, do listen to these first few lines in the splendid conclusion:" "Household Engineering has only tried to show the new, modern conception of home-making, with its many possibilities for scientific work, for the use of improved machinery in the home, for less waste in materials, energy, and time?to the end that the woman herself and her family, and the nation be developed to the fullest power and vantage ground in health, happiness, and true prosperity." Bob explained that he had thought that he would bring her something different this time instead of the customary candy and flowers.

The little lady in the bookstore had enthusiastically recommended this particular book. | Madge tenderly entwined her arms about Bob's neck and said: "Oh, Bob!

This is the end of a?I can't say 'perfect day,' but it is the perfect ending of one little imperfect day, and the dawn of many more perfect ones to come!

See, it is midnight? just time to feed the babies, so if our singing awakens them it won't matter." He took out his violin and she went to the piano, and together they sang the world-famed song with all the rapture that was in their loving hearts, as they thought of their care-free courting days, and the promising future in their happy little home.

A laugh is worth a hundred groans in any market.?Charles Lamb.