BEREAVEMENT.

	"There's not a joy the world can give, like that it takes
away."—BYRANT.

	Who has not echoed these words, or the
sentiment they contain, when bending over the
lost beloved one? Who has not perfectly
realized all they contain, the wailing of the
stricken heart, the desolation of their surround-
ings, the dearth of all their future life! The
vacant chair that none can ever occupy—the
star that has gone out of their hemisphere,
never to rise again in this sublunary state—
how many that read these words will endorse
them, as they strike chords responding to those
in their own heart's experience. The lines I
have quoted were written by one of the great-
est poet; they were wrung out of his heart by
a sad experience. He had seen all that were
near and dear to him, with one exception, fall
into the cold embrace of death, in a most
singular and remarkable manner, and the one
who ought to have stood by him and soothed
the lacerated heart, was too stoical, too exalted
a character to realize or appreciate a heart
pierced by the arrows of the Almighty—she
was estranged, and left him in his sorrows, and
he exclaimed, that he stood upon his hearth,
with his household gods shivered around him.
There are living sorrows far more poignant


[Column 2]

than those of death, sad and desolating as
they are, and this man's was a living sorrow,
that wound up all the rest. Death brings its
own balm with it; a living sorrow often has no
panacea, but eats as a canker into the very
seat of life, causing its very fountain to send
forth springs bitter as "the waters of Marah"
—and no Moses near to throw in the sweeten-
ing corrective. 'Tis nature's due to shed the
tears of love and sympathy over our beloved
dead, but soon let us turn and assist in alleviat-
ing the living sorrows which we can see daily
around us. Let us read history and biography,
and we will there find that even the crowned
heads and the wealthy, and such whose lot was
cast in what is termed "high life," have often
been martyrs, either publicly or in the private
sphere of life; God is decidedly no respector of
persons; if he has the least preference, it is for
the poor and the needy, the prisoner in the
Bastile, the widow and the orphan; these are
assuredly His especial care. Let us take a
character from the Bible, one whose life I have
so often read, and shed over it the tear of sym-
pathy, and there is a fine moral and great
consolation and instruction to be derived from
it; how often her pathetic ejaculation has burst
from my own heart, and issued from my own
lips—"Thou God seest me!" What a beauti-
ful, pathetic and confiding appeal were those
words of Hagar, as she stood alone in the
desert! What a volume they contain! How
brief and yet how full! Her whole soul was
presented to the Lord in those few words. They
might be elaborated in such aspirations as,
"Father, I stand here before Thee, alone in
the desert, alone, except with my young child;
we are indeed in the wilderness of the world;
man hath forsaken us, and cast us forth; we
look around over the vast expanse, but all is
desert; we are parched with its sand and its
glaring sun; we thirst, but there is no water.
The pitcher is drained of its last drop; my life
is before Thee, from its earliest days Thou
knowest I have obeyed Thy laws of marriage,
and Thou hast given me this boy; he was be-
loved by his father, but another came, and he
was supplanted, and because we felt the iron
of oppression enter our soul, and my child in
his innocence and ignorance showed out his
feelings, we are cast out, but Thou seest me;
pardon and forgive all that Thy pure eyes have
seen amiss, and hold us thine, and let us live;
Thou canst send us water even in the desert."
Something like this did those few words con-
tain, when lo! she hears a sound. She puts
her ear to the ground, and distinctly hears the
rushing of water. She pursues the sound, and
she sees, oh, ecstasy! water gushing out of a
rock that arose in the desert. She had laid her
child away that she might not see him die; she
springs to him, she bathes his parched lips, his
face, his hands; she gives him to drink, and
then she drinks herself and becomes refreshed
and invigorated. Was this all the answer to
her prayer? No; behold a bright messenger
from the courts of glory approaches her, and to map
out her future course of life, and that of her
child, who was to "become the father of a
great nation." What woman would not be con-
tent to pass through the crucible of a great
living sorrow to be so honored and sustained?
No doubt she had realized the full import of
those thrilling words, "There's not a joy the
world can give, like that it takes away," but
God is with the lowly and the forsaken, and
His angels minister unto them, for "man's ex-
tremity is God's opportunity."
	Our subject is bereavement, and we will
continue it a little farther. There are few that
have not lost some beloved ones, few that have
not watched the soul take wing, who have not
seen that thrilling look when the spirit is
hovering on the confines of its eternal home, so
entirely unspeakable, which no painter has ever
caught, all the most intensely sacred passions

[Column 3]

of the soul gathered into that one grand focus,
in that most mysterious intermediate moment
between the mortal and the immortal life,
never, never to be forgotten in its mute lan-
guage, and then succeeds a calm, a beauty be-
held nowhere else, impressed by the enfran-
chised spirit, like lightning upon the mortal
frame it had just vacated!
	The Bible speaks of "the widows of Ashue;"
may we not with truth and propriety speak in
our scripture of he widows of Utah, most of
them "widows indeed," to whom the especial
favors of heaven have been promised. Now
many are made widows, and their children
orphans by the cruel, the unjust, the wicked
judgments of wicked judges, casting their hus-
bands, by unjust verdicts, into prison. Will
not the Lord require restitution at their hands?
Are not His people as dear to Him as in days
of old? This woman just named was a plural
wife of the man named in the Bible, "the
friend of God, the father of the faithful, whose
posterity should be numerous as the stars of
heaven, and the sands upon the seashore."
Are notthe widows of Utah as dear to Him as
those in days of yore? As a widow, I confidently
answer, "yes," and I know it. He has said He
will be the husband of the widow and the
father of the orphan. Let mighty faith be
cultivated by the widows and by the orphans,
and if need be they, too, shall receive a mes-
senger from the court of heaven to comfort, to
teach, perhaps reprove the widowed daughters
of God, and His rebukes shall be sweeter far
than the kisses of the earthly. Why cannot
the women of God have faith like the women
of old? God is the same yesterday, to-day and
forever. His people have made holy coven-
ants with Him in His holy places, and have
strained every nerve to keep them. He has
promised those who ask shall receive; to those
who knock the door shall be opened
His ministering angels wait to do His bidding;
the pure and the good are their especial care.
What, then, can hinder this people from re-
ceiving all that was bestowed upon His people
of old, when His Church was first organized
upon the earth? The time has come now when
that Church can no be no more thrown down; it
may be battered and bruised, but its founda-
tion is the rock of ages, and Christ Himself
has said, "The gates of hell shall not prevail
against it! Heaven and earth may pass away,
but my words shall not pass away." "So mote
it be!"
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 9th, 1886.


