THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	These times of persecution and trouble for
the Latter-day Saints, though aggravating in
their form and hard to bear are neverthe-
less fraught with blessing for them that
are manifest in many ways. There is at the
present a spirit of unity and independence
existing among them to a degree not witnessed
before for many years.
	The injustice and abuse heaped upon the
people are having a good effect upon the minds
of the youths of our Church; many who have
hitherto apparently taken very little interest
in the teachings of the gospel are beginning to
arouse and "buckle on the armor," a spirit
of action begins to burn within them which
without the stimulus that persecution gives
would have lain dormant. And this feeling of
despotism and cruelty which is steadily increas-
ing toward us is not to be regretted when we
realize the purifying effect it has upon us and
especially upon our children who have been
conceived, born and reared under a spirit of
perfect love and confidence. Then, inheriting
as they do this sweet spirit of confiding love
and trust, how essential to their welfare it is
that the emissaries of Satan who have sought
us out and established themselves among us
should be made to throw off the mask and
show themselves in their true character.
	It is pleasing to note how prompt the Y. M.
M. I. A. members, true sons of Abraham, were,
to fold the cloak of independence and pride
about them as soon as our enemies, the wor-

[Column 2]

shippers of Baal, began to uncover their
faces before them.
	How pleasant the situation when all the Lat-
ter-day Saints exhibit in their lives the same
spirit that did that ancient patriarch when
the idolatrous king bent humbly before him
offering presents, and, although the king was
much indebted to him for favors received, yet
he answered that he would not receive from
his hands even the value of a shoe lace. If
we are the children of Abraham we will do
the works of Abraham and pattern after his
ways, and we will not regret any position we
are placed in that will bring us to his stand-
ard of righteousness and nearer the Kingdom
of heaven. No Latter-day Saint who has the
fire of the Gospel burning in his veins can
fail to see that the power of God is in all these
things, and that His arm is stretched out to-
wards us and they cannot help rejoicing under
all the trials we endure. That spirit of sociabili-
ty and freedom that sprung up a few years
ago between our people and the outsiders
was not savoring of good for the Latter-day
Saints, and much care and anxiety
was imposed upon the faithful parents and the
authorities of the Church in consequence of
the tendency of many of our young people to
intermingle and marry with those not of our
faith, and it is well that there is beginning to
be a line drawn and that a separation be made
between the righteous and the ungodly. At
every period of time when God has had a peo-
ple of His choice on the earth the command has
been to not mix with those of an alien creed.
This subject has been frequently and very
plainly spoken upon by the editor of the
Juvenile in editorials and "Topics of the Times"
in that magazine and which no mother or
daughter in Israel should fail to read. He
makes mention of several instances in which
sorrow and distress has been the result when
this law given to Latter-day Israel has been
broken, and to those given by him another
might also be added, that of a young girl of
Salt Lake City, sixteen years old, and a mem-
ber of a highly respectable family in the
Church who married an outsider, who had
lived for many years in the Territory a good
enough man she thought. About a year ago
he came south on his way to Arizona, carrying
with him warrants for the arrest of some of
the leaders of the church whom he expected
to find there, he having been deputized
by Marshal Ireland to hunt these men
down; he took with him his wife, the young
girl mentioned, and a private letter written
by her to a friend a few months ago states that
she was then living in Arizona a few miles
from Phoenix alone and deserted. The noble
defender (?) of woman's rights and persecutor
of the "grey haired abusers of the law" (as he
termed our venerated exiled leaders) had left
her and gone, she knew not where; her watch,
jewelry and all her surplus clothing she had
sold, she said, to buy food for herself and child,
and, she adds, "I know no one in this whole coun-
try and there is nothing left for me to do but
starve." In reference to the death of one of
her friends, she says: "The news of her death
was a shock to me, but she is better off than
I am; I would willingly change places with
her, my greatest sorrow is that I cannot die."
This is a deplorable picture, but the fruits of
the bitter lessons we learn are sweet. And the
sooner the women of Zion learn to follow
strictly the voice of Him who has called them,
the sooner they will be saved from the dread-
ful and damning sins which the men of the
world would heap upon them. They are
learning from the cruelty and injustice im-
posed upon them by the leaders of the nation
and by those who have been foremost in the out-
cry for some law to be enacted to free the Mor-
mon women from their serfdom, that outside of
the fold into which God has called them they
have no friends. They have learned that they


cannot depend upon the governors and judges
of this nation to insure to them their personal
rights. They have seen the liberty, happiness
and all the rights of a wife laid at the feet of
the judge and instead of their being cherished
and protected by him, saw them spurned, cast
aside and trampled upon, while he empowers
the man to crush her, cast her and her lawful-
ly begotten children off and brand them with
shame. I say it is well for the women of Zion
to learn this, that aside from the noble few who
are brave enough to stand forth in the face of
the opposing nation and die if necessary for the
principles of salvation, there are none who
will defend their rights nor protect their virtue.
This purifying flame by the hand of our Father
cannot fail to scathe with grief the hearts of
some, those whose misfortune it has been to be-
come united with those who are wanting in
faith in the gospel and in integrity of heart
and purpose, and are unable to stand before
their oppressors without quailing. With such
wives and mothers our sympathy is deep.
Those are the real sufferers. To see husbands
and sons immured in prisons or seeking refuge
in the mountains like wild beasts is a grievous
thing, but it is much more grievous to see them
crouch with trembling knees, and supplicating
mercy before an infamous judge whose mis-
sion it is to apply the test to prove them. But
if we have husbands and sons who cannot bear
this test and are not willing to bear all for the
truth's sake let us remember that " 'Tis better
that one of the members should perish than
that the whole body should be cast into
hell," and so still kiss the rod that chastens.
'Tis a wise Father who is giving us these se-
vere but soul strengthening lessons; and that
He is on the side of the women of Zion, and
that he is pleased with the work they have
done before Him cannot be doubted by any
except those of little or no faith. He has
proven to them that He has given them true
friends and protectors among the men of the
earth, and that His Priesthood dwells with
them, a fact that does not exist among any
other class of women on the earth. The
prisons of Utah, Arizona, Idaho, and that at
Detroit can answer the question as to what
some of these are. This is a dark hour for
this nation, and the names of those men,
"beacon lights" they have justly been called,
will shine forth in the future history of woman
with a brilliant lustre, and they will live in
the hearts of womankind and be honored
for the noble manner in which they have given
up liberty in defense of that principle which
the women of all nations will yet know was
instituted by God for the salvation of their
race. So I say there is nothing in the present
crusade against us to make even the most
faint hearted woman falter. It is for her to
stand still and see the salvation of Zion, in the
work of which she bears a most honorable
part.		MAC.


