HOME DECORATIONS.

	Home-Made Hanging Baskets.—Take an old
tin two-quart basin; paint it inside so that it
will not rust; cover the outside with putty. 
Split peach stones and stick the parts into the
putty; after the putty hardens, varnish the
outside.  Fill the basket with earth, and plant
in it such vines or flowers as fancy may dic-
tate. 
	Fans.—Palm leaf fans are covered with silk
or cretonne, and have a loose piece of the same
material attached so as to form a bag.  There
are pompons around the edge at regular dis-
tances.  They are hung against the wall, 
handle upward, and serve as receptacles for
odds and ends.  The outsides are painted;
gilded, or covered with silk or satin, fitting 
tightly. 
	Flowers at Table.—Their beauty and frag-
rance add not a little to the pleasure of the
table hour.  A large, fragrant bouquet takes the
place of an extra dish.  And nothing is so
cheap as flowers.  During a considerable part
of the year they cost absolutely nothing.  It is 
the sweetest pleasure to grow them.  And it is
surprising to find how cheaply a small con-
servatory may be managed.


Mrs. Bancroft, the wife of the historian, is
said to be preparing a volume of her reminis-
cences and experiences.  As she was a belle at
Washington sixty years ago, and has seen
many of the best people and places at home
and abroad, she has the materials for an un-
commonly interesting book. 
	Mlle. Benoit, a young vendean lady who
lately took her medical degree, is now ap-
pointed medical examiner of girls throughout
the municipal schools of Paris.  It is the busi-
ness of Mlle. Benoit to see that girls are not
overworked, and that they get through their
studies under sanitary conditions. 
	The woman suffragists of Iowa have great
reason to hope, that the bill for municipal
suffrage will be carried by the L[-]gislature
this winter.  The governor has recommended
it.  The attorney-general supports: it.  The
prohibitory party has adopted it.  Leading,
papers in that S[-]ate advocate it.  The suffra-
gists petition and work for it.


