			E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.

	WEST JORDAN, Jan. 17th 1886.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is my first attempt to write to your
valuable paper, so I hope you will please ex-
cuse my feeble efforts, as I feel I would like
to pen a few items of my experience.
	A few years ago I knew a noble young
woman, who had been taught from her infancy
to love truth and virtue and the principles of
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Her affections were
placed upon an honest, good and intelligent
man. She entered into the marriage relation
by making solemn vows and covenants that
were for all time and eternity. In the course
of time she was blessed with offspring and
among them a pair of twin baby girls. They
were very delicate; but by the careful and
affectionate care of the loving mother and
the faith and earnest prayers of a fond father
the Lord stayed the hand of the destroyer and
they were snatched, as it were, repeatedly
from the jaws of death.
	As time rolled on they could run around the
mother's knee with their prattling sweet voices
raised in musical tones singing "Sweet Birds,
Sweet Birds". On the fourteenth of January

[Column 2]

they would be two years old, so the fond mother
thought she would invite a few of her rela-
tives and friends and celebrate the day by
returning thanks to God our Heavenly Father
that He had spared their lives up to the pres-
ent time, hoping to have a pleasant time and a
sociable visit. On the morning of the thir-
teenth, just as they had risen from their bended
knees in offering up their thanks to God for
sparing their lives through another night, and
asking for His blessings through another day,
there came a knock at the door, and who
should it be but a deputy marshal, who soon
spread confusion and sorrow in that happy
family. The next morning that sorrow-
stricken mother was compelled to leave her
twin babes and two other dear children and
take her infant a month old and travel twelve
miles to Salt Lake City exposed to the cold
inclement weather, there to appear before
judge and jury. Her feelings may be imagined
when she reflected that her truthful testimony
was likely to tear that dear husband and af-
fectionate father from his dear wives and little
innocent children and place him inside prison
walls, there to mingle with murderers, thieves
and other wicked men. Next morning, feeble
and weak after the exposure and excitement
of the day before, she was seated in her easy
chair with her baby in her arms, when there
again came two deputy marshals wanting some
person they supposed to be there, telling her
their business and saying that they were
sorry, but if she did not tell the truth and the
whereabouts of the person they wanted they
would be compelled to take her to the city and
perhaps it would cause her imprisonment.
She said she did not know where the person
was any more than they did. After searching
the house and not finding the object of their
inquiry and asking her many questions which
she answered to the best of her ability, they
finally said they believed she told the truth.
They could not look that saintly woman in
the face and say otherwise. Well, such trials
the Saints of God are subjected to to-day.
What will come next? Well may the cry go
up, "oh Lord how long, how long, must thy
people endure these things for conscience sake."
	Praying the Lord to give His children
strength sufficient for their day, I am,
		Yours etc.,
			M. B.


