OUR CHILDREN.

	This theme, so exhaustless and so important,
although so well worn, is always interesting to
the Latter-day Saints; therefore, no apology is
deemed necessary for its introduction here; in
fact, every issue of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
should contain at least one page devoted to this
one subject.
	Many mothers, who have had long experience
in the rearing of children, are capable of giving
valuable hints to others who have not been in the
work so long, and to whom such hints would be of
great worth. But, alas! the hard-working, careful
mother is rarely the one to find time for sitting
down and writing bits of her experience for the
benefit of others. The result is, we have too
little of such matter in our papers, and too much
that is of far less value.
	From a private letter, written by a lady whose
residence is at Ryde, on the Isle of Wight, the
following extracts are taken by permission:
	"I think those persons are much to be con-
gratulated who are prompt in their habits, and to
whom it is neither effort nor denial to do their
work, and carry out their good purposes with
alacrity. I have heard it said, 'If you want a
thing done, give it to the man who has most to do,'
and I firmly believe it admits of sufficiently sim-
ple explanation, from the force of this most de-
sirable habit. And partly, perhaps, from natural
temperament, it is actually less trouble to such,
even though pressed for time, than to the individu-
al with ample leisure who must needs wait for the
breeze to fill the sails, or, in other words, to be in
the right humor, before making these intentions
take form and become accomplished facts. No
doubt many a good purpose is hopelessly lost in
the horribe quicksand of procrastination, which
would never have been sacrificed deliberately.
	If I had the management of the young, such
points as these are what I should consider of im-
portance, leaving mere book learning to a later

[Column 2]

date, as I firmly believe, often to the gain of the
young learner:
	Kindness and consideration to brothers and
sisters and companions, and to their inferiors in
position, of course, not omitting ready obedience
to parents, teachers and those above them; truth-
fulness, care in making a promise, and great care
in keeping the same, assuming, of course, that
the promise is a right one, and the avoidance of
the procrastination to which I have been just al-
luding; these, and kindred virtues, are what I
should lay every stress on, as laying a worthy and
attractive foundation for development in later
years, nor should I fear for the result.
	That all children, as a rule, are selfwilled, goes
without saying; also, that there is a wide differ-
ence in their dispositions, some seeming to be
born with much better dispositions than others
(Lock's theory, notwithstanding), but when we
see a child given to selfishness, and delighting in
tyranny, or teasing, as the case may be, if un-
checked, what can be expected but that these
faults will become vices in mature age? And it is
a poor set-off against it in such children, that
they are, perhaps, very talented, and in after life
may become great ornaments in society, and that
they can be very agreeable when they like, and
might be of much use if they only chose.
	Talent can be turned to evil as well as good ac-
count, as probably most persons could find sad
examples of, where, it is to be feared, this leading
aim in education, the developing of what is good,
with the repressing of evil tendencies, has been
overlooked or left in abeyance.
	Happily, we are none of us wholly dependent
upon oral tuition or human instructors. We have
all the teaching and training of experience, a safe
teacher in all cases."
	Will not the points tonched upon in the fore-
going be worthy of consideration by many parents
to whose notice they may be brought through their
insertion in the EXPONENT? And will not some
of our gifted and truely wise mothers in Israel,
exert themselves to assist in filling a column, such
as has been mentioned, to aid in the training and
teaching of our children?
	LULA.


[Column 1]

