THE UTAH WOMEN.

	Every suffragist in the country is urged to
write at once to every member of Congress
from his or her State, and ask him to use his
utmost influence to defeat in the House of
Representatives the shameful bill passed by
the Senate, proposing to violate freedom, jus-
tice, and vested rights, by robbing the women
of Utah of that suffrage which is theirs by
long-settled law and practice.
	This bill is peculiarly outrageous. Pro-
fessedly aimed at Mormonism, it allows Mor-
mon men to vote; and disfranchises both Gen-
tile and Mormon women. It thus inflicts an
odious penalty on thousands of citizens who
have not been convicted of any crime, and
violates vested rights, a violation which even
so conservative a jurist as the late Judge
Jeremiah S. Black declared illegal and intol-
erable.
	The success of this bill will strike a blow at
the rights of every woman in the land. Let
every suffragist not only write to members of
Congress, but get every one else who can be
induced to do so to write them likewise. Also
let every one write to Hon. Mr. Hill, chairman
of the Committee on Territories, House of
Representatives, Washington, D. C. This is
important.
	A bill with the same purpose has several
times passed the Senate, but we have always,
by vigilance, succeeded in defeating it in the
House. Senator Frelinghuysen at one time
carried a similar bill through the Senate. We
held a meeting at his home (Newark, N. J.),
and got his constituents to pass a resolution
requesting him to change his course. This
disturbed him so much that he felt obliged to
make a personal explanation in the Senate,
and afterward acted very differently. The
woman suffrage movement is stronger now
than then; let the Representatives,
especially Chairman Hill, feel its power.
	Vermont suffragists should set to work at
once to secure the nomination and election to
the Legislature, throughout the state, of men
who will vote against the re-election of Sena-
tor Edmunds. He has been always the bitter
foe of the rights of women. Let Vermont
women and their friends see to it that he is
permanently retired.
	The undersigned, who took an active part
in securing woman suffrage in Utah, and has
watched over it specially ever since, makes
these suggestions most earnestly as the fruit of
experience.
				HAMILTON WILLCOX.
	Woman's Journal, Jan. 16.


Mrs. Julia Ward Howe delivered an excel-
lent address before the Brooklyn Woman
Suffrage Association at their last meeting.
The rooms were crowded.

	Mrs. Chute, of Washington Territory, for-
merly an accomplished teacher in Lafayette,
Ind., goes thirty-five miles to vote. She is
postmistress and notary public, owns two
claims and works them, pleads law-suits, has
large herds of sheep and cattle, is an expert
florist, and in addition finds time to read the
magazines and the Woman's Journal.

	Prof. Susan M. Fry, who has the department
of Belles Lettres at the Bloomington (Ill.)
University (seven hundred students), is the
senior professor in rank, and thus becomes act-
ing President in the absence of Dr. Adams.
At such times she presides over the large
Faculty of which she is the only lady member,
and leads in her turn, at morning prayers, all
this being taken as a matter of course by the
gentlemen of that progressive western col-
lege. Mrs. Fry's professorship has been en-
dowed with $27,000 by Charles Cramp and
wife, wealthy farmers of Macon, Ill.


