				YOUTH.

Once more, dearest friend, I sit down to address you,
And, it being your birthday, desire to bless you;
Such, for years I've attempted in writing to you—
Alas! I'm so distant, 'tis all I can do;
Yes, years, many years have rolled steadily on
Since first I sang to you a natal-day song:
In them my whole heart has been bared before thee,
And they tell—yes, in each—I've presented the key!
If you have not unlocked and explored them, why then,
You've missed it, my friend, for on earth ne'er again
Shall I ever unfold in so great a degree
The soul which my Father—God—gave unto me!
And why I made you the receptacle—you, dear—
I should need a bright angel to make it all clear;
Yes, e'en to myself—I myself need a key
To clear the grand mystery—even to me!
But in grand or minute it is ever my way
To acknowledge the hand of the Lord, and His sway,
For if even the fall of a sparrow's recorded,
Those who bear His own image are lovingly hoarded,
And what we note as trifles, His judgment so wise
May behold as a germ, that He cannot despise;
He has made each an agent to map out the life
From out the material so rich and so rife,
By which we're surrounded, and given a mind,
A heart and a brain, that by these we may find
Out the good that is for us—'tis something to know
What will make for us happiness, make for us woe,
And make for us joy and will make for us love;
Such knowledge will lift us all trifles above,
And if we as infants repose in His hands,
Obeying His laws and His loving commands,
He will turn, yes, and overturn all in our favor,
And even to bitters will give a sweet savor,
And give us a power, an angelic art,
That we, as diplomatists, act well the part
That makes life a rich and a heavenly boon,
That none will desire to end very soon!

It's not in me to boast, or desire to seem
A something I am not, or ever have been;
I just want to assure you my Father has given
Me knowledge and tact, just to make my own heaven,
And should you ask why He has favored me so,
Bestowing the happiness, soft'ning the woe?
'Tis by prayer—yes, the voice of my soul has been prayer,
Entreating His guidance, imploring His care.
As "clay in the hands of the potter"—so I
In the hands of my God have desired to lie!
Such is but a synopsis, a brief sketch indeed
Of how I've obtained, where I wished to succeed,
Did love of some beings, I felt, if possessed,
Would add to my happiness, make me more blest,
I at once set to work, as the spirit dictated,
To draw to myself all that seemed to me mated;
Yes, mated, which is, that their souls seemed to be
United to mine by a sweet unity,
Magnetic, and charming, encircling my soul,
By casting around me a healthful control;
In such way my spirit did magnetize thine,
Or was it your spirit that magnetized mine?
See! here is a problem, and who shall resolve it,
And a question still greater is, who can dissolve it?
'Tis strong as the mountains and firm as the hills,
'Tis sparkling and pure as our own mountain rills,
Nought of earth intermingles—'tis spirit indeed,
And blended with distance, from trammels is freed;
We think, speak and write with the freedom of heaven,
Which smiles and sees nothing that need be forgiven;
'Tis a compact that's not often found upon earth,
It had from the brightest of feelings its birth;
It has had a sweet life—do you ask when 'twill die?
When we in the tomb shall all peacefully lie!
And the spirit released shall then joyfully soar
To the mansions of bliss, that it dwelt in of yore,
With our Father and God, and with Jesus, His Son,
Our own elder brother, ere earth-life begun;

[Column 2]
On earth, our Redeemer, our Savior and Friend,
There united united in brotherhood, never to end!
The redeemed of all nations, there gathered in one,
Our warfare all ended, our heaven begun!

Amid all this bliss—this ecstatic bliss—
Will the spirits, all ransom'd, not look back to this—
For a moment look back to the loved ones still here,
Remembering the all that on earth it held dear?
The love and the friendship that brighten'd its way;
And feel it must gather up all that it may,
Even all that here nurtured the heart and the brain
From that spirit can never be parted again,
All such is immortal, all that was so on earth
Is transplanted again to a heavenly birth;
All, all we enjoy here of heavenly life
We shall surely transmit where all beauty is rife,
And soul linked to soul by congenial ties
On this earth, shall meet and unite in the skies;
There's a spirit that whispers and tells unto me
In the realms of the blessed—yes, so it will be,
The beings that helped to make earth unto me
A palpable paradise, surely shall be
In the same planet-world where my spirit will rest,
Unitedly there will our spirits be blest!

I need not go on—perhaps enough has been said,
And you'll draw the inference when you have read;
The best feelings that dwell in the heart of a friend
Are those which I now in all faithfulness send,
By the aid of my paper, and also my pen,
And this day many years may you witness again.
Preserve, above all things, the blessing of health—
To those who possess it, 'tis coffers of wealth;
May you attain all I desire for thee,
Then happy, contented and blest you will be;
Your old and true friend writes the song I now sing,
Accept it in love, from yours—HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
