		NO MIDDLE COURSE.

	The events of the past several months, taken
with many others in the history of the human
race, should teach the Latter-day Saints, such
as have not learned the lesson already, that
there is no safe middle course between right
and wrong. The disastrous failures of those
who have sought, in the present crisis, to
make a bridge of their souls over a chasm too
broad to be covered, except by a rupture and
dismemberment of principle, should give pause
to all who may contemplate emulating their
unsuccessful examples.
	These failures, much as the causes leading to
them are to be deplored, should occasion no
surprise. They serve only to emphasize a
truth and newly illustrate a principle as old
as time and as immutable as the Rock of Ages.
What is there in the Gospel, the great crite-
rion of truth, which teaches a man that he
can serve simultaneously two masters; that he
can be for God and against Him at the same
time; that he can make peace with the evil one
and accede to terms, however speciously worded,
that will satisfy and call forth the plaudits of
his minions, and still remain the friend of God
and an uncompromising foe of unrighteousness?
	Strange, indeed, that some calling them-
selves Latter-day Saints—God grant that their
numbers are few!—with the teachings of the
past before their eyes, and the Holy Spirit
presumably in their hearts, can not see a pro-
position so plain as the one declaring that all
who are not for the Lord are against Him; or
seeing it, cannot convince themselves that God,
in saying this, meant exactly what He said, and
that anything more or less cometh of evil. The
trained equestrian knows that he cannot suc-
cessfully ride at the same time two horses

[Column 2]
moving in opposite directions. But, if he
attempted it, the result would be no more dis-
astrous in a physical way, than morally for a
Latter-day Saint to try to plant himself square-
ly upon both sides of a question involving
honor and obedience to a law of God and a 
law of man directly opposed to it, enacted for
the sole purpose of its destruction.
	It is idle to argue the wisdom or righteous
policy of such a course. When oil and water
can mix, without one or both of them losing
their original properties, it will be time enough
to talk about a "Mormon" being a non-"Mor-
mon" even in part; but not before. Good
and evil, heaven and hell, are not synonymous
terms, neither is it possible to be altogether
right and only a little in the wrong at the
same time. In one sense the chasm between
the two is so broad that no bridge can span it;
in another, the division line is a hair so fine
that to step over it from the right but one
inch, is to be just one inch in the wrong.
	What of Daniel the Prophet, when forbid-
den by a law almost as cruel as the Edmunds
law, to pray to the God of his salvation?
Could he have "come within the law" and
still have continued to supplicate Jehovah?
	Could the Hebrew children have obeyed the
tyrannical edict of Nebuchadnezzar and
bowed themselves down before the golden
image which he had set up, and still preserved
themselves free in the sight of heaven from
idolatry?
	Could our blessed Redeemer, the Godlike
hero of Gethsemane and Calvary, because of
the ignominious fate before Him and the ex-
ceeding sorrow of His refined and sensitive
soul in contemplating it—could He have
receded with honor from His position, recanted
what He had spoken by the power of the Holy
Ghost, and, to save His life, made an agreement
with Pilate and the Jews that He would no
longer proclaim Himself the Son of God, or
teach the pure principles, despised though
they were by the world, which He came to
preach, practice and lay down His life for?
	Could the prophets, the reformers, the pa-
triots—those who spilt their blood like water
rather than relinquish one jot or tittle of their
sacred convictions, have given way at the
dicta of tyrants and bigots, and still kept
their honor and integrity inviolate? And if
they had given way, would we now enjoy the
blessings which their valor bequeathed, and
would their names have come down to us
haloed with a glory which time cannot dim or
the breath of calumny extinguish?
	I have in mind the example of one of these
heroes, brought face to face with the prospect,
not of fine and imprisonment, but death, for
the sake of his religious convictions. Martin
Luther at the Diet of Worms! When this
brave and resolute soul was asked to recant
what he believed was Bible truth, and sue for
pardon at the feet of the pope and the powers
ecclesiastical and militant of the Catholic
world; standing alone in the midst of his ene-
mies; surrounded by frowning faces and blood-
thirsty hearts, not knowing that he would be
permitted to issue thence alive, did he yield one
inch of the ground he had taken? Did he
cower or crawl before emperor, priest or
noble, and to save his life make a bargain
with the powers of evil and emissaries of
Satan! No! Erect before the imperial tribunal,
pale of face but undismayed at heart, sus-
tained by the power of God and the rectitude


of his own conscience, he exclaimed, with his
hand across the open Bible whose teachings
he was asked to renounce: "Until convinced
by reason and scripture, HERE I STAND! I CAN-
NOT DO OTHERWISE; GOD HELP ME!"
	These are the stalwarts of history; the bea-
con lights along the shores of Time. They
are examples which God has given in the past
for the emulation of the present and the future.
If any are in doubt, and have not the Holy
Spirit to teach them in what direction their
duty lies, let them turn to these human guid-
ing stars for inspiration. The light shed by
such examples, with the great and infallible
criterion of God's Spirit, which burns un-
ceasingly in the heart of every true and faith-
ful Saint, will illumine duty's pathway through-
out the darkest night and cause it to shine
brighter and brighter unto the perfect day.
