ITEMS FROM WASHINGTON.

	The National Capital is not so gay this winter,
at least so far on, as it has generally been of late
years; it is said that the Senators and Representa-
tives are not men of so much means and wealth as
those of the last Congress. But still there is
plenty of display in dress, jewelry and all that
goes to make up the lady of fashion, and balls,
parties, clubs and calls are numerous as ever, and
it would seem even more so. The extravagance
in dress is something from which one whose
thoughts tend in a higher direction must turn
away with a sort of disgust. It almost absorbs
the life of women of society, and there is no doubt
but that many deaths have resulted from the ridicu-
lous fashions and customs of this public society.
It is quite time women turned their attention to
something loftier and better than this dress-parade,
this constant drain upon the purse, and the foolish
and exacting demands of Madame Grundy.
There is, one would suppose, and indeed there
must be, something very fascinating about this
continuous whirl of excitement, that makes one
forget the duty of self-preservation and carries too
many of its votaries to an early and untimely
grave, making them victim's to its cruel demands.
One cannot help exclaiming, "To what will all
this tend in the history of the race of men and
women, and what will the offspring of the next
generation be, if indeed there be a generation
born at all of these lovers of pleasure, these devo-
tees at the shrine of fashion?" The habits of men
are perhaps more deteriorating in their tendencies
than those of women, though differing materially
in the main; tobacco smoking seems to be the
great evil that is most apparent, though there are
many vices that are said to be increasing to an
alarming extent, and those who look at these mat-
ters seriously are greatly exercised over the fearful
statistics of crime, and the secret evils that creep
into modern society and sap the very foundations
of life, as it were, unawares. But from sins such
as these may Zion long be free, and her sons and
daughters grow up simple in their habits and
moderate in their tastes, and if unsophisticated,
pure and chaste in their lives, that the race may
grow strong morally and physically, as well as
spiritually, and that the cultivation of the heart
and the higher attributes of one's nature may sur-
pass the love of dress and amusements, and that
they may never despise the mission of motherhood,
and prefer dogs and pets of various kinds to the
children given them of God, possessing immortal
souls.
	We had no intention of moralizing, but it is a
sickening sight to see women calling themselves
ma and grandma to puppies, and saying, "Your
papa" so and so, to dogs, and see the homes
desolate of the voices of little children.
	Washington is a grand old city, and one never
tires of admiring its grandeur and magnificence,
its elegant public buildings, its beautiful parks and
avenues and squares, its handsome and stupen-


[Column 2]

dous monuments, and its many statues to great
and illustrious men—all are interesting to the
general observer, and specially so to the native
born American, who delights in the glory of
his country and her many noted places of in-
terest.
	The Capitol Building itself is really the centre
of attraction to the majority; thither in crowds day
after day, the people congregate to see and hear
the great men of the nation, who assemble daily
to perform the duties of the Congress to which
they have been elected by their constituents in the
several States and Territories of the Union.
	The Capitol is acknowledged to be the finest
building in this country, and some people affirm
in all the world, but as we have not been all over
the world, we cannot answer for that assertion,
but can say truthfully it is the finest we have
seen.
	It stands on Capitol Hill, as though nature her-
self had prepared the very spot purposely for this
imposing national edifice. To give a full descrip-
tion of the building would take up too much space,
and there are other things more important to tell,
but we will say it consists of a main building, with
two extentions, one at either side, in one of which
the Senate meets, in the other the House of Re-
presentatives. In the main building is the hall
used by the Supreme Court of the United States,
what was formerly the Senate Chamber, also the
National Gallery of Statues. There are many
objects of interest, about the Capitol, and one
might go there day after day and be agreeably
entertained with pictures, statuary and the like,
but it is not always convenient or, for many rea-
sons, expedient. One sees a great many fine
looking people in and around the rooms of the
Capitol, and occasionally one hears fine oratory,
but that does not usually come every day.
	The weather has been very cold in Washington
this winter, and there has been some good sleigh-
ing and fine coasting, and the people have enjoyed
it, judging from appearances.
	No doubt our readers would like to hear about
the new President and the Lady of the White
House—his sister. With the most of the people
they do not seem to be very great favorites,neither
with Democrats, his own party, much more than
with Republicans. In New York and Boston, and
indeed in country towns in New England, he is
very freely discussed, and his administration most
severely, and, one might almost say, savagely
critciized. At a concert given at All Soul's Church,
by blind children who had been trained in Eng-
land, President Cleveland was present, and as he
sat on the next seat to where the writer was sit-
ting, on a chair in the aisle, there was a very good
opportunity to see him. He looks exactly like his
picture, except he seems to be more fleshy, and is
bald at the back of his head. One would never
judge he was the President from looking
at him, though he looks quite as Presidential as
many of his predecessors in office. It is quite
usual to imagine that people must really look like
the ideal one has in mind, but they very rarely do.
However, he does look as if he could fill the
President's chair, even if it is so very large indeed.
His sister is small compared to her brother, she is
rather thin, looks very intellectual, and is sweet
mannered. She gets the credit of being the
power behind the throne, and is spoken of as
strong-minded, and having great influence with
her brother. A very funny story goes the rounds
here, which will give the idea of what is imagined
concerning her, by a large class who, no doubt,
envy her the position she holds here, and are not
half so amiable or approachable as she is. A
Frenchman said, in a satirical and humorous way,
"There was Catharine of Russia, and Elizabeth
of England, and now we have Elizabeth of
America."
	Senator Edmunds is still hammering away at
the Mormons, and public sentiment is at the

[Column 3]

present time pretty well educated in its opposition
to Mormonism. People advise us to take mea-
sures to educate public sentiment on the Mormon
side of the question, but how is that to be done,
when they will only hear one side of the story?
There are some fair-minded people who would
listen, would read, if they had the time, but they
are mostly the busy people, who have so much
business that they have not time for religion. A
few men here and there, and one or two women
see through the schemes of the Federal officials in
Utah, and declare that it is not polygamy they are
fighting, it is a combined effort to rob the people
of their rights; others think Edmunds means well,
but is too zealous, but he does it for the best, and
is an upright man, and would not encroach upon
the rights of others, "but he has got off wrong"
on this "Mormon question." There are those
who fear very much the provision of the bill in re-
gard to the confiscation of Church property—and
those are Church people. And again, the advo-
cates of suffrage for women are indignant that
Senator Edmunds should, want to take the suffrage
away from women and not from men, and
they look upon it as another great injustice to
women, which is, of course, plain to be seen, and
these strong suffragists have the names of the
Senators who voted for that Bill "down on their
lists," and as sure as the world, Edmunds is
down, the ringleader of this gross injustice;
"they've got him on the list," rest assured. But,
then, its only Mormon women, and a few others,
he thinks, no doubt, and that is all right, Mor-
mons have no rights any way that ought to be
respected; that’s exactly what he must think, or
he could never have framed such a bill as this last
one, for his former bill, passed in 1882, covers all
the grouud that the United States at large, the
sixty milllions of people, they talk so much about,
are hankering for, the breaking up of homes that
have been made in plural marriage. This is what
the press and pulpit have howled over, "we must
put down polygamy, and make these Mormons
conform to our views," and then they are just like
other people, but when they've got a law passed
that is so severe that every man against whom
any proof can be obtained is convicted, no matter
how flimsy the testimony, then they are not satis-
fied, but cry out for more, until they may be like
the boy who wanted an apple, and when he got it
he wanted another, and still another, until he
could no longer hold them, and they all rolled
away, and he lost even the first. Senator Ed-
munds is too greedy on the Mormon question, and
has plainly shown to all fair-minded people that
polygamy was only a drop in the bucket, instead
of the great big fish he intends to catch; but if the
great big fish he is after don't swallow him, as the
whale did Jonah, he may think himself pretty
lucky. It is thought, generally, that he is working
for the next Presidental election. "God save the
mark!" The country is badly enough off now,
without such a narrow-minded bigot as he is to
occupy the chair of State. If the sixty millons
of people think the "Mormon" question the one
most necessary to have settled, and the Edmunds
bills, one after another, don't succeed in getting
rid of the Mormons for them, why then, perhaps,
they will think if he was President he could do it;
but Mormons are not so easily bilked, and Con-
gress and the President have some other matters
of a serious nature to engross their attention, and
although Edmunds may be the ablest man in the
Senate, there is a very poor prospect of his being
elected, or even nominated, and some other great
big greedy fish, who is looking after big fish, in-
stead of such small fry as "Mormons," will prob-
ably run away with the coveted prize, and leave
him and his "Mormon" bills to go down stream.
He has, however, probably with other influences
at work, succeeded in arousing a great deal of
animosity against the "Mormons," and prejudice
is very much stronger now than seven years ago,


but it is always the darkest just before day, and to
the true Latter-day Saint there is courage that the
day dawn is near, and though storm clouds may
threaten, and even break over their heads, they
know who can at any moment say to the winds
and waves, "Be still!" and they will obey, and
that there is One above who controls the destinies
of nations and holds them in His hand, and in the
darkest time of deepest trial, the Saints have seen
light spring suddenly forth from the midst of dark-
ness, and help has come when most needed, even
at the last moment, as it were, and while the
Saints are true and faithful and keep the coven-
ants they have made with God and with each
other there is no need of fear and trembling.
	There are so many things to write about, one
scarcely knows where to begin, and, indeed, it is
difficult to decide which matter would be most in-
teresting, but some day we must tell of our visit to
Plymouth and Pilgrim Hall, to Haverhill, where
we met a dear old schoolmate, and felt as though
we had seen a vision—about our Boston cousins,
and so on, the visit to Oak Knoll, one of the
homes of Whittier, the poet, to the grand old
theological town, Andover, where we met Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps, and to the most interesting
visit of all these—in Whittier's study, at his other
home, in Amesbury, where so many of his beauti-
ful poems were written, of the dinner there, and
the hucleberry pie—not "cold huckleberry pud-
ding;" then you must hear, too, of the very queer,
not to say weird old houses we wandered through,
where, when a child, our feet have strayed, and
lastly, the White House and Capitol, where, by
the by, we ascended to the top of the Dome; and
very soon we expect to leave Washington for
other interesting points, among which may be
mentioned Kirtland and Nauvoo.


