		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	Some of the members of my father's family
had previously left for the Great Salt Lake,
namely, James Smithies and family, Peter
Hanson, Mary Ellen Kimball, and Mary
Forsgreen.
	My uncle, Wm. Murray, had gone with his wife
and daughter and little son—their eldest son
having gone with the pioneers—into Missouri
to work to obtain an outfit for their journey
the next spring. But all were soon prostrated
by disease, and Uncle William's sad forebod-
ings expressed before leaving his beloved sis-
ter, were soon realized. He fell a victim
to disease brought on by the severe hardship
and privations to which he and hundreds of
others had been subjected, withont even the
necessities of life to sustain them.
	His family was lying sick unto death
in the State of Missouri, and this, added to the
already heavy cares that were resting upon
my mother's shoulders, almost overcame her.
It was also a heavy blow to his eldest daughter,
who was living with mother. But though they
felt it a sore bereavement their greatest solace
was the thought that he had obeyed the Gos-
pel, and had never flinched from his duty,
but had died in the harness.
	For a testimony to those who may doubt my
statements I will present a few lines that were
written by my mother July 29, 1847, after
seeking a retired place to pour out her soul in
prayer to Him on whom she leaned for
strength and wisdom, and that light which
drives away the unwelcome mists of darkness
and brings sweet rest to the weary soul.

	"My soul doth magnify the Lord,
	And praise Him for His holy word,
	For He hath blessed me from above,
	And filled my soul with light and love;
	My body, too, He hath renewed,
	My path with blessings He hath strewed.

	My Lord, go with me through this day,
	And may I never cease to pray
	For wisdom, faith and righteousness,
	And may I never ask amiss."

	I have barely touched upon the scenes that
came under my notice during the absence of
the pioneers, but am able to testify to the en-
joyment of many happy seasons after the
mighty struggle with the destroyer was over,
and we were again in the enjoyment of health,
a blessing that none could appreciate more
fully than myself. Some of the little circle
that met often one with another to obtain that
solace which the comfortor alone could give,
have passed on to another stage, leaving one

[Column 2]
here and another there to testify to the out-
pourings of the Holy Spirit that sustained and
cheered them during those trying scenes.
	Two are still remaining in the family of
the late brother John Pack—Sisters Julia
and Ruth, who will bear witness to these things,
and that there were no repinings such as we
read were indulged in by the children of
Israel. We could say with one accord as did
the prophet Job, though reduced in worldly
circumstances or reproached and cut off be-
cause of our seeming wickedness, yet in the
midst of all our sore calamities we were buoyed
up with a holy hope, and were confident of a
glorious reward from Him who is the searcher
of all hearts and has promised that the meek
shall inherit the earth.
	The unbeliever may scoff but we know that
it was the Holy Spirit—the Comforter, and
that faith born of it, that sustained and buoyed
up the drooping spirits and lightened the
cares and toils of the weary under the
varied and trying circumstances that were
calculated to dishearten any but Lattter-day
Saints, who possessed that living faith that en-
abled the soul to look forward to a glorious
future, trusting to that Mighty One whose
power had preserved and led them thus far
and had delivered them "out of the seventh
trouble."
	It is a sad thing to record the apostasy of
any who were once so highly favored as to re-
ceive the great spiritual manifestations which
were enjoyed by Frances Swan and Sarah
Lawrence. Both were sealed to my father
over the holy altar in the Temple at Nauvoo.
The latter named had been the wife of the
Prophet Joseph, his first wife, Emma, having
given her and her sister to him as his wives
for time and all eternity. Sarah made choice
of my father to stand as proxy for Joseph
in this life. But she allowed a jealous nature
to have full sway. She and I became warm
friends after she entered my father's family,
and even after she became disaffected and
thought to better her condition by marrying
another we were still friends and she met
nothing but kindness from father and his
family, he with mother, and other members of
his family went by invitation to spend an
afternoon at her house, after she was married
to her last husband.
	But the man she married had proven
truant to one wife and her little ones, leaving
them to struggle for existence in this
valley through the hardest times experienced
here. And not until they had found friends
to succor and help to keep the wolf from their
door, did he make his appearance, and
then he had very little of the Gospel though
he, at first, professed to be a "Mormon." He
had come from the gold mines of California
where had had made what was then considered
quite a fortune. It was not long before he
proved the truth of my father's predictions as
he denied the faith and returned to California,
taking Sarah with him. But it seems she
failed to find happiness even in monogamy, as
he turned out a dissipated character, and it
was only a few years before she was divorced
from him. She had lost every spark of the
Gospel, which had once been her guiding star,
and was finally left to herself. She became so
wicked that when paying her last visit to Salt
Lake she denied emphatically ever being con-
nected to Joseph or to my father, and was very
insulting to those who dared to dispute her
word. She abused her brother Henry's second
wife most shamefully, when meeting her in his
store, laying to her the most humiliating and
abusive accusations, which proved her to be a
most vicious and heartless woman. Her
brother, Henry Lawrence, was so annoyed by
her unprincipled course, that he was among
the most thankful when she left here and re-
turned to California, where she soon died.


