THE WOMAN OF INFLUENCE.

	Mr. Worth, the eminent Paris dressmaker,
telegraphs to the Boston Sunday Herald that
the great and pressing need of the age is a
Woman of Influence, somewhere or other, to
set the fashions. In default of this, he has,
after exhausting his genius upon a new dress,
to use various indirect devices to bring it into
vogue. When one thinks what a beautiful
work of art a lady's dress may be, when wealth
and Worth have done their best for it, and
what an apalling product mere wealth, without
taste, can develop under that name, one may
well give a sigh of sympathy to this man of
genius who can find no woman quite worthy of
his scissors. Yet the truth is that the Woman
of Influence is demanded not alone to wear
clothes, but to modify and control all the
habits of society. A person of power, of in-
dividuality, of resouoces, of charm, is needed
in every place where a woman stands, and is
not to be had in answer to an advertisement.
"What we want," said a certain school com-
mittee-man, after a long debate in committee
about the best way to secure a competent fe-
male assistant in the high school—"what we
want, gentlemen, is a splendid woman." This
was at once accepted by all as the complete
formula for the situation; it was the later task
of actually hunting up this priceless creature
and securing for her eight hundred dollars a
year that proved formidable.


[Column 1]

	In these days one is certainly impressed with
the prominence of literature as a sphere for the
Woman of Influence. When we think of the
thousands of high schools and academies
throughout the land in which, next gradua-
tion-day, some maiden in white will read an
essay on "The Genius of George Eliot," we
may well say with Rufus Choate, "After all, a
book is the only immortality." And surely
the reader is impressed with the way in
which a woman's genius, even if not of
the very highest order, may retain its hold
after her death, on seeing the late statements
of Mr. Routledge, the great publisher of
cheap books in England, as to the continued
demand for Mrs. Heman's poetry. In the last
generation the pure and melodious muse of
this lady had great reputation; her American
editor was Professor Andrews Norton, father
of the present Professor Charles Eliot Norton,
and one of the most cultivated critics of his
day; and it appears from the late memoirs of
Garrison that her verses were long the favorite
food of that strong and heroic mind. Yet it
has been the custom to speak of her popularity
as a thing of the past. Now comes Mr. Rout-
ledge and gives the figures as to his sales of
the different poets in the year ending June 12,
1885. First comes Longfellow, with the ex-
traordinary sale of 6,000 copies; then we drop
to Scott, with 3,170; Shakespeare, 2,700; Byron,
2,380; Moore, 2,276; Burns, 2,250. To these
succeeds Mrs. Hemans, with a sale of 1,900
copies; Milton falling short of her by 50, and
no one else showing much more than half that
demand. Hood had 980 purchasers, Cowper
800, and all others less; Shelley had 500, and
Keats but 40. Of course this is hardly an ap-
proximate estimate of the comparative popu-
larity of these poets, since much would depend,
for instance, on the multiplicity or value of
rival editions; but it proves in a general way
that Mrs. Hemans holds her own, in point of
readers, fifty years after her death. What
other form of influence for man or woman
equals this?
	Yet there may be other modes of action.
That of Florence Nightingale for instance,
modestly vindicating a woman's foresight
against the dulness and red tape of a whole
War Department; and returning from the most
superb career of public service that ever
woman had, with ruined health, but with such
universal love and reverence from the Crimean
army that a statue would have been erected to
her by a penny subscription had she not re-
fused it. That of Clara Barton or Dorothea
Dix, or Mary Livermore, or Jean Lander, or
Mother Brickerdyke, in our own civil war.
That of many a worker in the Associated
Charities of our large cities; or of those special
organizations which were almost always carried
on, thirty years ago, under the official leader-
ship and treasurership of men, but which have
been steadily falling, more and more, during
that period, into the hands of women. That
of many a woman of society, so called, who
recognizes in "society" itself a sphere for con-
scientious duty—so that the tone of a whole
town or city may sometimes be said to be kept
up or let down according as the leading "so-
ciety woman" is a person of character or a
doll. That of many a woman in some log
cabin on the frontier, whose "society" consists
in a dozen children of her own and perhaps
two or three more taken in from charity; the
woman who, nameless and noteless, maintains
that average quality among our American peo-
ple that can always be relied upon to send
from obsecurity a Lincoln or a Grant in time
of imminent need. Beyond all these, perhaps,
in total influence, ranks the great army of
women teachers, spreading their unseen and
daily labors through every school district from
Cape Cod to the Golden Gate; smoothing the
waste places, equalizing all our civilization,
doing the most for the poorest; and again, in

[Column 2]

the upper regions of education, rising into the
work of such missionaries of the highest train-
ing as Mary Lyon in the past, or Alice Free-
man in the present. Compared with these, how
petty seem the little struggles for position and
etiquette! In what lingering childishness does
the most exalted womanhood of Europe seem
still to be involved when we read in the tele-
graphic headings, "Great indignation of Queen
Victoria," and find that this excitement re-
lates, not to the tremendous Irish problem and
the threatened dismemberment of her empire,
but to the hesitation of certain courts of
Europe to accord to Prince Henry Something-
or-other, her latest son-in-law, the title of "His
Royal Highness!"—T. W. H., in Harper's
Bazar.


