THE POET SISTERS.

	No names are better known to the school
children of Cincinnati perhaps than the names
—Alice and Phoebe Cary; yet it may be that
many of the children do not realize the fact
that the two sisters who wrote so much of the
poetry read and recited in the schools were
born and grew up to girlhood right near Cin-
cinnati—within three miles, perhaps, of the
city's present limits. The "brown house low
and small" in which they were born is gone to
decay, and only a sunken place in the ground
marks the spot where it stood. The "fruitful
apple and cherry trees which grew so
close they nearly pushed their thrifty boughs
through the attic window and shook their
fruit upon the mossy roof; the luxriant sweet-
brier which grew beneath the window, 
the small garden with its two straight rows of 
currant bushes and bed of vegetables on either
side, the rose bushes and thriving peach tree, 
shading a row of beehives, and its withered
mate suuporting a fragrant hop vine" described
by Phoebe, are all gone; as is also the "path
of blue flag-stones which led to a well of cool, 
unfailing water." The well is still there, but
unused, and covered with rails and boards;
cedar trees and bushes have grown up all
around the well, as if to protect it.
	The old "ample, weather-beaten barn, the
busy haunt of the restless swallows and quiet, 
comfortable doves, and in all seasons the
never-failing resort for children," has left no
trace of itself. But the oak tree which, Phoebe
said, "had been kindly spared from the forest
when the clearing was made for the house," in
1814 or '15, still "throws its thick, cool shad-
ows over the road."
	Alice Cary was born on the 26th day of
April, 1820. Her sister, Phoebe, was born
September 4, 1824. In early life their parents
were very poor and the sisters had to do their
reading, studying and writing at night, after
the day's work was done. The country was
new, no railroads, telegraphs, telephones, 
libraries, to aid them. But few books and
papers found their way to them, and the
schools were poor, and generally only kept
during the winter, when the road (a mile and
a quarter long) to the school house was rough
and muddy. This school-house—a little one-
roomed brick building—stood until a few
years ago, and the sycamore tree which Alice
planted, near by, still grows.
	The Carys built a new dwelling house in
1832, in which, as Alice said, "the faimily ex-
pected to see the beginning of better times, 
but saw nothing but trouble and sorrow." This
house still stands, and is occupied by Warren
Cary, a brother—a hale, kind man of fifty-
nine years, who ever seems willing and glad
to show to visitors the places of interest made
sacred by the verses of his two gifted sisters. 
	Another brother, Asa, the constant com-
panion and playmate of Phoebe in childhood


[Column 2]

days, lives across the road (Hamilton Pike)
from the old home. Alice and Phoebe left
the childhood home and went to New York in
1850 and began their literery life in earnest
papers all over the country had already con-
tained fragments of poetry from their pens, 
but the first novel written by Alice, entitled, 
"Hager, a Story of To-day," appeared in the
Cincinnati Commercial in 1851-2. After
that the Cary sisters soon became well-known
writers, and their home was the favorite re-
sort of the literati.
	Both sisters died in 1871, and are buried side
by side in Greenwood Cemetery, N. Y.
	A Mr. Alexander Swift, who had in early
life married a sister, Susan Cary, and after
her death wedded yet another sister, Almina
Cary, started, a scheme a few years ago to fur-
nish the old home on College Hill with all the
rich and tasteful furniture which adorned the
New York home, and keep it ever as a memo-
rial place. He bought the "Cary place" for
that purpose, but the furniture belonged to his
daughter Alice, "Little Alice," who had mar-
ried a Mr Clymer. Mr. Clymer and his
father-in-law had a falling out, and he refused
to give up the furniture, and has it with him
in Pensylvania, saving it for his children, he
says.
	Many persons from all over the country,
especially from New York, visit the "Cary
place," and the verses of the two gifted
daughters of Ohio are sung in the churches,
recited in the schools by old and young.
	In the College Hill Cary graveyard, not
far away and also close to the pike lies buriedChristopher Cary, the Grandfather, who was
born in Windsor. Ct., 1763; died in Cincinnati,
February 6, 1837.  There are buried there,
too, several revolutionary soldiers; one, a
Henry Deats, was a soldier of 1776; died
August 20, 1843, in the nineteenth year of his
age.  Another, James Keniston, who served
five years' active service in the war for freedom
the tombstone says.  Many of the Carys sleep
here, but the immediate relatives, except the
grandfather, have been removed to Spring
Grove.—Commercial Gazette,
	E. S. D.


