PICKING OUT GOOD ORANGES.

	To very many an orange is an orange, the
only variation distinguishable being in size
and corresponding price, while those who
know the difference between "Florida," "Se-
ville," and "Messina" oranges are considered
experts. The "Florida catechism" tells us
better than that. We learn from it that there
are "over thirty" varieties of sweet oranges,
not to mention the "natural stock," which is
a larger and handsomer fruit than the sweet
orange, and is excellent for orangeade and
marmalade, but, being very sour is seldom
shipped North. The medium sizes are apt to
be the choicest, and "probably the very sweet-
est orange that is marketed is the rusty coated
and rather ill-looking orange, which might be
considered inferior by an amateur." Further-
more, "the way to detect oranges is to 'heft'
them in your hands; pick out the thin skined
heavy fruit, and you are all right." The light-
weight fruit is apt to be juiceless, a condition
caused either by a slight freezing while on the
tree, or, more probably, by the poverty of the
soil in which it grew.
	All this applies to the sweet oranges. The
"kid glove" oranges are grown in Florida
from two stocks brought, respectively, from
China and Tanglers. Hence they are called
Mandarin and Tangerine oranges. Both are
small; the skin is loose and easily removed, and
the sections fall apart so readily that a lady
can eat without soiling her gloves; hence the
name.
	Some other interesting bits of information


may be picked out from this "Catechism."  It
is not generally known, for instance, that "an
orange that is entirely dead ripe in December
will hang on the tree until March, and is
ready at any time to be picked and shipped;" 
while so far from deteriorating, "the longer
they hang on the trees the sweeter they grow,"
and Florida oranges, purchased in February
and March, are therefore apt to be better
than those procured early in the season.  Again
the notion that to know what an orange is
really like, one must go where the oranges
grow appears to be a popular fallacy, as wel
are told that "the orange picked from the tree
is no riper or better than the orange on the
fruit stall in the North."—Philadelphia En-
quirer.


