DIVERSIONS.
	SKY-LIGHTS.—Sun, moon and stars.
	WHAT, word is always pronounced wrong?
Wrong. 
	HOTEL-KEEPERS are people we have to
put up with. 
	WHAT has a cat that nothing else has?
Kittens. 
WHEN is a dog like a fixed doctrine?—
When it is a dog-ma. 
	A DOG well-dressed wears a collar and
pants in the summer.
	IT has been asked, When rain falls, does
it ever get up?  Of course it does;—in dew
time.
	STRANGE to say, no matter how well paid
a dentist may be, he will always look down
in the mouth.
	"I HAVE lost flesh,” said a toper to his
companion.  “No great loss,” replied, the
other, “since you have made it up in spir-
its."
	“When a fellow is too lazy to work in
this section,” writes a correspondent from a
village in Canada East, “he paints his name
over his door, and calls it a tavern, and makes
all his neighbors as lazy as himself.”
	IRISH TELESCOPE—An Irishman was one
day observing to a friend that he had a most
excellent telescope.  “Do you see yon
church,” said he, “about half a mile off?
It’s scarcely discernible; but when I look at
it through my telescope, it brings it so close
that I can hear the organ playing.”	
	﻿Irascible old man—“Conductor, why didn’t
you wake me as I asked you? Here I am,
miles beyond my station.”—Conductor—“I
did try,sir, but all I could get out of you was,
'All right, Maria; get the children their
breakfast, and I’ll be down in a minute. ”
	A TROY paper thus states a Trojan joke:
“A dentist of this city became emotionally
insane while repairing a front tooth for a
pretty woman, and kissed her. She imme-
diately went home and told her husband,
who went around that way the same eve-
ning, and borrowed $500 of the dentist on
long time and without interest.” 
	A GUARDIAN of the peace in New York
made his first essay as a ‘mounted police-
man,’ one day last week, by grasping the
horse’s tail and attempting to climb up that
way. The surgeon subsequently remarked,
that no horse ever had a finer opportunity,
or took advantage of it with such infinite
scorn of the consequences.
	A MARKET girl sold a gentleman a fine fat
goose, warranting it to be young.  It turned
out, when roasted, to be unmanageably
tough.  The next day the gentleman said
to the market girl, “That goose which you
sold me for a young one was very old.”—
“Certainly not,” said the girl “don’t you
call me young?”—“Yes.”—“Well I am but
nineteen, and I heard mother say often, that
that goose was six weeks younger than me.”
	A MAN was brought up by a farmer, and
accused of stealing some ducks. The farmer
said he should know them anywhere, and
went on to describe their peculiarity.
“Why,” said the magistrate, “they can’t be
such a very rare breed! I have some like
them in my yard.”  “That’s very likely,
your honor,” said the farmer; “these are
not the only ducks of the same sort I have
had stolen lately!”
	“DEAR old Aunt Mary,” said a school
girl, “don’t see very well, and last Sunday
she was buzzing around getting ready for
church, looking for umbrella, specs, over-
shoes, and last but not least her prayer book.
The latter she thought she secured by grab-
bing something off her bureau at the last
moment, but when she got to church it
proved to be my music box, and the old
lady, in trying to find her place in this un-
common book of prayer, touched the spring
and it went off in fine style to the tune of
“O Jim Along, Jim Along Josey.”
	THE following is the verdict of a negro
jury: “We, de undersigned, bein' a Koro-
ner’s jury to sit on de body of de nigger,
Sambo, now done dead and gone afore us,
hab been sittin’ on de said nigger aforesaid,
and find dat de same did on de night of de
fourteenth of November come to def by
fallin’ from de bridge ober de riber in de said
riber and brokin his neck, where we'find he
'was subsequently drowned and afterwards
washed to do riber side, whar we suppose
he was froze to def.”
	ONE night a judge, a military officer, and
a priest, all applied for lodging at an inn
where there was but one spare bed, and the
landlord was called upon to decide which
had the best claim of the three.  “I have
lain fifteen years in the garrison at B.,”
said the officer.  “I have sat as judge twenty
years in R.,” said the judge.  “With your
leave, gentlemen, I have stood in the min-
istry twenty-five years at N.,” said the
priest. “That settles the dispute,” said the
landlord. “You, Mr. Captain, have lain fif-
teen years you, Mr. Judge, have sat twenty
years but the aged pastor has stood fivc-
and-twenty years, so he has the best right
to the bed.


