THE SEX.
   WOMEN usually vote for the best candi-
dates, and cannot be bribed.
  THREE sisters own and operate a Maine
flouring mill, and are making money.
   MRS. Ellen M. Babb is Justice of the 
Peace and Quorum in Eastport, Me.
   MRS. Sophrona Nichols, of Corry, Pa., has
taken the prize for an essay on a medical
subject.
  THE Grand Duchess Marie, in her uniform
as honorary colonel of a Russian regimen, 
is said to be "as marital as Minerva."
  MISS Rebecca Hanna received the first
prize at the Medical School of Iowa 
State University, for the best specimen of 
anatomy.
   MDDLE. Aimee Desclee, the most refined 
artiste of the Parisian stage, the creator of
"Frou-frou," died in Paris, some days ago, 
after a long and painful illness.
   MRS. E. M. Elliot, of Mt. Pleasant, Iowa,
has been appointed Trustee of the Insane 
Hospital at Mr. Pleasant, by the Legislative 
Joint Convention of that State. 
   FLORENCE Nightingale, Harriet Marti-
neau, and many other women, have signed 
an address to Mr. Disraeli, urging his influ-
ence in favor of Woman Suffrage.
  A WEALTHY Buffalo lady of sixty has
just married her own widowed son-in-law,
and the children of the two families are now
puzzled to settle their relationship.
  MISS Phebe Cozzens filed her first case in 
the Circuit Court of St. Louis recently, as 
counsel for Mrs. Charlotte Smith, the editor
of the "Inland Monthly," against L. U.
Reavis.
  THE jewels that the Duchess of Edinburgh
brought with her to England are said to be
worth $2,500,000, and include as many as 
100 bracelets.
  MRS. Lucinda Marsh, widow of Major 
David Marsh, of Litchfield, Conn., left a 
will giving her property to trustees to divide
the income among the needy poor of that 
town.
  THE Shakers at Alfred, Maine, think of 
contributing to the Centennial Exposition,
in Philadelphia, an old lady named Lucy
Langdon Nowell, who was born on the 4th
of July, 1776.
  THE women of Greenwich, Ct., have se-
cured 1200 signatures to an appeal to the
liquor dealers to cease their business. They
do not contemplate any further effort than
the presentation of the appeal.
  MISS Ramberger is the first American lady
who has ever graduated in Dental Surgery.
She has established an office in Philadelphia,
where she intends remaining, should her
efforts be crowned with success.
  MRS. Phebe C. Bailey, who was a great
grand-daughter of John Alden and his wife
Priscilla of Mayflower times, has just died
at Dover, at the age of ninety-one, having
lived to see three generations of her de-
scendants.
  MISS Emily Faithful complains that out of
the hundreds of women seeking for situa-
tions she recently found it difficult to find
one competent to undertake the manage-
ment of a business supposed to be in their
special sphere—dressmaking.
  MRS. C. A. Winship has been the efficient
and popular superintendent of a large and
flourishing Sunday School, in Wakefield,
Mass., for many years. She has also, for
twenty years, been the earnest and devoted
teacher of a Bible class in the same school.
  A WOMAN Suffrage Convention was held
in Newark, N. J. recently. Resolutions
were adopted asking the Legislature to give
women equal civil and political rights, and
requesting Senator Frelinghuysen to recon-
sider his proposition to disfranchise the vo-
ting women of Wyoming.
  THE new Constitution of  Pennsylvania
provides that, “women of twenty-one years
and upwards shall be eligible to any office of
control or management under the school laws
of this State.” No more $80 a month to 
men and $40 a month to women who do the 
same work.


A house without children is like a lan-
tern and no candle; a garden, and no
flowers; a vine, and no grapes; a brook,
with no water gurgling and rushing in its
channel.

	THERE are some dispositions so palpably
and really superior to others, as to induce
the belief, that Nature, in her manufacture
of them, had thrown in a dash of the angel
by way of finish; while, in contradistinc-
tion, others there are, which seem to be
made up of mere sweepings and scrapings
of the manufactory.

	MAKING MISTAKES.—Prof. Liebig used to
say:—"Show me the man who makes no
mistakes, and I will prove to you that he
does nothing." It is easy enough for a sci-
entific man who publishes nothing, but only
criticises others, to escape the charge of
committing errors, and for such persons
Liebig entertained a wholesome contempt.


