THE BEAUTIFUL.
	Who shall describe that which appears to differ-
ent observers under different appearances? Who
shall lay down rules by which to distinguish that
which is not distinguishable by any? Who shall
define that which is undefinable? Who shall ex-
press upon paper the attributes of "the beautiful?"
A Chinese lady considers herself irresistibly charm-
ing with her deformed feet. An Indian squaw
coquettes in the finery of a red handkerchief, a
row of beads, or the varied mosaic of the tattoo.
Englishwomen have prided themselves upon their
personal appearance, arrayed in all the pompous
superfluity of hoops, high-heeled shoes, and patched
faces. Who shall call either of these tastes in ques-
tion, or decide which of them have hit upon "the
beautiful?" One man admires tall women—an-
other short: one can conceive nothing more enchant-
ing than a slender waist—with another, an embon-
point carries away the apple: some choose fair dam-
sels with blue eyes—others brunetts, with black
ones: neatness attracts some—finery, others; pretti-
ness charms that man—elegance this. In fine, it
would be a melancholy thing for the fair sex, if all
men were agreed upon "the beautiful."
	What then are the characteristics of "the beauti-
ful" in the softer sex? She should be in appearance
engaging, and have an interesting, if not a hand-
some countenance. She should be lively, without
levity—serious without melancholy; joyful, with-
out being excited to ecstacy—sad without the list-
lessness of despair. Her heart should be the de-
pository of the gentlest, yet the most fervid af-
fection—her soul, exalted by the loftiest sense of
honor and duty, yet capable of the softest exercise
of pity and benevolence. Religion should be en-
shrined in her breast, as fragrance in the rose-bud;
but the withering influence of superstition should
be unable to wither it. She should be able to
discern—and to feel—the difference between the
pure glowing of the heart towards its beneficient
Creator, and the cold formalities which custom
would substitute in its stead. In the day of pros-
perity, she should be conscious of the uncertainty
of earthly happiness; and, with the heart to which
she has linked her fate, she should encounter the
blasts of adversity, not only without repining, but
with cheerfulness. She should be a creature
breathing all the warmth of the most generous de-
votion—unable to reproach, unwilling to be offend-
ed, and cautious to avoid the possibility of giving
offence,—should be, as woman was meant to be to
man, a being allied in spirit to the angels, and feel-
ing the passions of earth only, as it were, to di-
vest them in him of their grossness, and to lead
him, insensibly, to the disinterestedness and the
purity of her own generous feelings.


THE Washington "Star" says it takes a
veteran Congressman a long time to apply a
postage stamp. All for want of practice.


