PEN AND SCISSORS. 

	No one can fully appreciate the true value
of a real friend, until left without one.
	Many a man thinks it’s virtue that keeps
him from stealing, when it’s only a full
stomach. One should be careful, and not
mistake potatoes for principles.
	Kate Field, writing from Spain, thinks
that Nature would do a thriving business if
she would only economize on fleas, and be-
stow the extra energy on the men of that
country.
	That was a very observing widow who
said: "The state of widowhood is inconve-
nient, for one must assume all the modesty
of a young girl without being able to feign
her ignorance."
	In Switzerland, a Society for the obser-
vance of the Sabbath as a day of rest, has
offered a prize of $200 for the best essay on
the subject of resting upon the Sabbath, con-
sidered in a hygienic point of view. The
points required to be especially discussed
are:—1. The favorable effects of rest on
Sunday on people of various ages, and their
influence on the family and the nation. 2.
Diseases which may be engendered and in-
creased by continuous work in persons who
by the nature of their calling are deprived
of this weekly recreation, as, for instance,
railroad employes, journalists, telegraph op-
erators, bakers, etc. 3. practical results
drawn from the observation of cited facts.
	Honor the Scissors.—Some people, ig-
norant of what good editing is, imagine the
getting up of selected matter the easiest
thing in the world to do, whereas it is some
of the nicest work that is done on the paper.
If they find the editor with the scissors in
hand, they are sure to say, "Eh, that is the
way you get up original matter is it?" ac-
companying their new and witty questions
with an idiotic wink or smile. The facts
are, that the interest, the morality, the va-
riety and usefulness of a paper, depend, in
no small degree, upon its selected matter,
and few men are fully capable of the position
who would not themselves be able to write
many of the articles they select. A sensi-
ble editor desires considerable selected mat-
ter, because he knows that one mind cannot
make as good a paper as five or six.—Amer-
ican newspaper Reporter.
	“The Rev. J. P. Newman, in the course
of his tour of inspection among the consu-
lates of the world, took a walk one day in
Yeddo, Japan, and passing a criminal court,
during the progress of a trial, attempted to
enter. In this he was repulsed, so he wrote
upon his card, ‘Rev. Dr. J. P. Newman,
Chaplain of United States Senate, and Spe-
cial Friend of President Grant,’ and sent it
to the authorities inside. The card was ta-
ken in with great ceremony, and soon an
answer came back, expressing the agonizing
grief of the court that there was no one
present of sufficiently high rank to receive
the visit of such an august American.”


