SPLINTERS.

	The late Senator Sumner was the owner
of the Bible which formerly belonged to
John Bunyan......Twenty thousand dollars
was lately cleared in two weeks by a mis-
sion fair in Boston......Dr. Edward Warren
writes that there are good opportunities for
female dentists in Egypt, as the women are
forbidden to consult with men; and there
are already three or four English woman
dentists practicing in Cairo......Carl Rosa
intends founding a "Parepa-Rosa Scholar-
ship" in this country; the proceeds to be
expended in educating American female
singers in Italy......The last portrait of
Charles Sumner was painted by Edgar Par-
ker of Boston......A treaty of extradition
has been officially proclaimed, to continue
ten years, between the United States and
Ecuador......A man in Pittston, New York,
enraged at his daughter's persistent purpose
to marry against his will, beat her so terri-
bly that she barely lived to meet and marry
her lover......A correspondent of the "Ru-
ral New Yorker," takes the singular "non
de plume" of Wild Girl......John P. Hall
was the first man in the Senate to advocate
universal freedom without regard to col-
or; a movement, to have his statue placed
in the Capitol is on foot......Mr. Rosa has
founded a scholarship in the Royal Academy
of Music, London, in memory of his wife,
Parepa Rosa......It has been incorrectly
stated that Saxe Holm is a young, unmarried
woman living in the interior of New York
State......A curious wedding recently took
place at Corvallis Oregon, the parties were
a Chinaman and an Indian woman......Lon-
don is to have a "Musical Artists' Society,"
of which one of the objects will be to give
trials and performances to the meritorious
works of the young composers......Prince
Kalakana has been elected King of the
Sandwich Islands.....Queen Victoria has re-
ceived a portrait of her new daughter-in-
law, the Grand Duchess Marie, done by Gus-
tave Richter as a present from the Empres
of Russia......The use of balloons for the
conveyance of mails is seriously proposed
by Dr. Stephans, the director of the Prus-
sian post offices.........Following are the
names of the officers elected for the Union
Pacific Railroad; Sidney Dillion, of New
York, President; Elisha Atkins of Boston,
Vice President; E. H. Rollings Treasurer
......Cincinati wholesale liquor dealers re-
port a falling off of their sales......Young
ladies carry round the contribution plates at
a fashionable church in New York; and the
treasury is said to be thus greatly benefited
......The Iowa Legislature, and also the lower
House of the Legislature of Rhode Island,
have passed acts providing for constitution-
al amendments giving women the right of
suffrage......It is stated that "Max Adeler"
is George H. Clark of the Philadelphia
"Bulletin"......Cornell University has re-
ceived portraits of Lowell and Agassiz,
painted by T. B. Carpenter, as presents
from President White......A New York pa-
per tells of a "kettle-drum," a name given
to an informal reception beginning an half
past three P. M. at which tea and cake are
the only refreshments served, which is done
chiefly by the lady of the house, herself......
The young men of Eton school proposed, in
their enthusiasm, to draw the carriage con-
taining the Duke and Duchess of Edin-
burgh from the railway station to Windsor
Castle but Queen Victoria modestly refused
to let them be the horses pro tem......Fe-
male teachers get $3.50 a week in Maine;
not enough to pay for their board and lodg-
ing.


[For the Exponent
