LITTLE FOLKS.

	"SAM" said one little urchin to another—
"does your schoolmaster ever give you a
reward of merit?" "I spose he does," was
the rejoinder, "he gives me a licking every
day, and says I merit two."
	A LITTLE boy the other day was put into
long trowsers for the first time. Some one
asked him why he had changed? "Well,"
he replied "the boys made fun of me, and I
wasn't going to wear my pants at half-mast
any longer."
	A LITTLE Boston girl joyfully assured her
mother, the other day, that she had found
out where they made horses—She had "seen
a man in the shop just finishing one of them,
for he was nailing on his last foot." Not so
far wrong as some persons suppose.
	"GET out of my way! What are you good
for!" said a cross old man, to a bright-eyed
little boy who happened to stand in his way.
"Well" said the little fellow, as he stepped
one side, "I believe they make men out of
such things as we are."
	A SCHOOL-BOY, having very good-natur-
edly helped another in a difficult ciphering
lesson, was angrily questioned by the mas-
ter,—
	"Why did you work his lesson?"
	"To lessen his work," replied the young-
ster.
	A CERTAIN little five-year-old miss in Mil-
waukee is very fond of sausages. A few
nights since, as she was saying the Lord's
Prayer, she stopped as she repeated the pe-
tition, "Give us this day our daily bread?"
and asked, "Mamma, don't he give sausages,
too?"
	LITTLE Lulu was not philosophical. Two
or three hours after eating a hearty dinner
of succotash, she complained of the stom-
ach-ache. "Perhaps" suggested the mother,
"the succotash you ate is troubling you."
"Oh, no, mamma, she replied, it isn't that
—it's ever so far below the succotash."
	DISCERNING child (who has heard some
remarks made by papa): "Are you our new
nurse?"
	Nurse: "Yes, dear."
	Child: "Well, then, I'm one of those
boys who can only be managed by kindness;
so you had better get some sponge-cake and
oranges at once."


The Empress of Germany has sent to the
reading-room of the Cooper Union, New
York, forty photographs exhibiting the va-
rious carriages, instruments, and apparatus
used by the Prussian Sanatary Commission
in the war with France.


