		FLORAL HINTS.

	Ladies who cultivate flowers in the house
will find great benefit to the plants by
spreading moss over the earth in flower pots.
This keeps the water from evaporating, and
the temperature more uniform. Tea-grounds
are often used for the same purpose. Where
a flower-pot sets in a saucer, with a hole in
the bottom of the pot, put a little sand in
the saucer, and cover it with moss, and you
have a simple and admirable arrangement.
	A LADY contributor writes the "Country
Gentleman" as follows:
	" I take coarse, heavy wire for foundation
and handle; then interlace with old hoop
wire made pliable by burning or heating to
a red heat; then I take young Portulaca
plants with a lump of earth attached to each,
and put them through the interstices, and
so fill the basket. The plants take kindly
to their unnatural position, and soon become
a mass of beautiful green and brilliant flow-
ers. My baskets hold nearly a half peck of
earth and look like a hanging garden. In
each I place an empty potash box, inserted
in a cavity in the earth, which I fill with
water daily, and in them place fresh flowers
as my fancy dictates. They hang in my
piazza, which is festooned and twined with
the American ivy and Morning Glories, and
no lovlier spot can well be imagined."
	THE cultivation of plants in a sleeping
room or the apartment in which the family
lives most of the time, is said to be un-
healthy. At least, any room in which sev-
eral plants are grown requires to be airy and
light. "Scribner's Monthly" has the fol-
lowing about a PLANT STAND.—The lack of
a desirable place to keep plants often pre-
vents the pleasure of raising them. They
must have light, air, and sunshine, and it is
not always convenient to devote the bright-
est window to their occupancy. If kept on
the ledges they are in danger of being
chilled on a frosty night; and it is a tax to
be compelled to move the heavy pots every
time the thermometer drops. A flower
stand of some sort that can be readily moved
from window to window, is, therefore, a
necessity. The old-fashioned wooden ones
are clumsy, heavy, and take up too much
room. The modern wire frames are pretty
and light, but one of moderate size costs ten
or twelve dollars, which is a great deal to
put in the stand when we wish to put in the
flowers.
	We saw something the other day that
seemed to serve both economy and conve-
nience. A box three feet long, and a foot
and a half wide across the bottom, and
eighteen inches deep, is made of common
pine. The sides flare out, so that at the top,
they measure from six to eight inches more
from edge to edge than at the bottom. This
box stands on four legs, with casters, and
under the bottom of the box a piece of wood
fancifully cut on the edge, (a sort of pine
valance) holds the legs firmly and symmet-
rically together. The top of the box is
nearly even with the window sill, and when
the whole is constructed it may either be
painted in colors or stained dark brown, to
match the furniture wood. The inside of
the box is better preserved from decay if
lined with zinc or tin; but it will last one
possibly two seasons without any lining at
all. Over the bottom is spread a three-inch
layer of bits of broken flower pots, and on
this is set a double row of pots, or as many
as will stand evenly on the surface. Then a
thick layer of sand is thrown over the bro-
ken pieces, and the rest of the space filled
up with earth till it is even with the top of
the flower pots. In the bed thus formed,

[Column 2]
bulbs and slips are planted between the
pots, and vines are started at the corners.
When the latter are well under way, wires
on which the vines twist, are fastened diago-
nally from corner to corner, forming a beau-
tiful green arch over what seems to be a bed
taken bodily from the garden. Sometimes
a tiny hanging basket, or an ivy growing in
water, is hung from where the wires cross
in the arch, but, even without it, there is
no appearance of bareness. A carpenter
will make the box for two dollars and a half,
and the painting and all can readily be done
at home.


