UNION IS POWER.

	No fair estimate can be given of the great
good which results to a family, a community,
or a people, through a willing and intelligent
union in purpose and action, for their mutual
well-being.
	Whatever the calling or occupation of a man
may be, he needs the hearty co-operation of his
family to insure success and happiness. And
so with the Bishop of a Ward or the President
of a people.
	There are, among the Latter-day Saints, fami-
lies, associations and neighborhoods which may
be regarded as bright examples, illustrative of
the value of unity in views and action. Ob-
serve the household where the husband and
father, worthy of his position, has the entire
respect and confidence of his wife or wives and
children. How gently, cautiously yet manfully
he leads; how gracefully, orderly and harmoni-
ously they all move in following. Together


they live and labor in a sacred peace, never 
a word of fault finding is heard or a sorry face 
seen. Mark, this is where real union exists in
the household. Though this simple and brief
description of a happy family may seem too
pleasing to be generally accepted as truth, it is
nevertheless a reality that there are some such
in our midst.
	Again, consider a Society of sisters of whom 
it can be said, “They truly accomplish wonders.
Besides taking cary of the destitute and the 
sick, they have sent means to assist in bringing 
the poor Saints from foreign lands, have already
built for themselves a fine Society-Hall and
purchased for the Ward a beautiful silver Sac-
ramental service. And all this comes, of their 
being ONE in their efforts. Their President is 
like a mother, and the rest all look upon her
and: work with her as such.” This description
is, we are glad to say, not one of fancy but one
of reality.
	The Latter-day Saints as a church, and as
communities or branches,are seeking to become
united in both Heavenly and earthly things,
and though some approximate faster than others,
all should strive to fulfill0 as fast as possible, one
of the cardinal principles of the Gospel of Jesus; 
namely, to be united in faith, prayers and good-
works, here as well as hereafter.
	A people or nation thus united in their sen-
timents and in their practices, so governed by
their own consciousness of right and their own
sense of individual, as well as public interest, 
would naturally become with the blessings of
God—a self-sustaining, self-reliant power in any
land. And what could prevent such a people
from receiving the blessings of Heaven? Who
of the members of the concordant multitude,
could contemplate the noble generous lives of  
their fellow-workers, without feeling to ask God
to bestow His best gifts and richest favors upon
them? And all soliciting alike, the same di-
vine obligations, would there not be such a 
unity of faith as to call down the very bless-
ings sought?
	It will be such a people that the Lord will
delight to own and bless. For He has said 
‘Except ye are one, ye are not mine.”


