HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE TWENTIETH ult. was a rainy disagreea-
ble day, yet many people were out at the time
of the arrival of President Young and Party,
anxious to welcome them on their return, from
the South. The President reached home in
excellent spirits and moderate health.
	THE DISPLAY of spring hats and parasols,
gives once more a lively and cheering appear-
ance to our city; while corresponding sights and


[Column 1]
sounds in nature and the works of men, bring
a renewal of the realizing sense of blessings
which return with the bright days of vernal
spring after the long and tedious winter.
	WE LEARN from the "Mllienial Star,” of
April 7th, that at a Conference held in Bath
Hall, Sheffield, March 29th, Elder Joseph F.
Smith was sustained by a unanimous vote, as
President of the European Mission. We also
find the names of other Utah Elders who were
present, as follows; L. J. Herrick, R. T. Bur-
ton, John Clark, Joseph Birch, F. M. Lyman,
John C. Graham, R. V. Morris, R. W. Hey-
borne and James T. Little.
	NEXT THURSDAY, the 7th inst., is the day 
appointed for the opening of the adjourned
Spring Conference. As many people will doubt-
less be in from different parts of the Territory
to attend Conference, we shall look for our
friends to call on us at the Office of WOMEN'S
EXPONENT, situated on West Temple Street,
near 1st South Street, just north of the Town-
send House and nearly opposite the City Meat
Market. 
	IF THERE are residents of this city, who are
Latter-day Saints, and who did not attend the
service, in the Tabernacle last Sabbath, unless
really unable to do so they should make amends
by going there next Sunday at 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. Sisters, it will pay you to go, and to
hear and understand for yourselves what the
Servants of the Lord are teaching; and take
heed that you be not deceived by any mere
hearsay.
	AGAIN WE would invite the attention of those
concerned in floriculture, to the space we have
allotted to that interesting subject in the EX-
PONENT; and solicit contributions in relation to
flowers grown in Utah. We should be pleased
to hear oftener from our friend "Flora,” who
delights in floral pursuits, and who must have
gained valuable information on the subject,
which should be imparted for the benefit of
others of less experience.
	“DULL TIMES!" is the general exclamation
from the majority of people whom we meet
now-a-days: especially those engaged in impor-
tant financial pursuits, most of whom appear,
with all their wise management and superior
business faculties, to have worked themselves
out of money and into debt. But to those
who are disposed to “look on the bright side,”
and trust a kind Providence for all necessary
blessings, the times are not so hard after all,
and a sunny day seems to be dawning. 
	ONE MORE issue after the present will com-
plete the second volume of the EXPONENT.
Financial circumstances will not admit of our
third volume commencing with as many
or as great improvements as our ambition
might have led us to wish and anticipate.
However, we shall continue to labor cheerfully
for the good of our friends, so long as we are as
well supported and encouraged by them as we
have been heretofore: and shall endeavor to ad-
vance in the scale of improvement as fast as
circumstances and experience will open the
way.
	ON SUNDAY April 19th, a very large number
of Sabbath School children met in the Old Tab-
ernacle in this city, many of their Superinten-
dents and Teachers also being present. The
object of the meeting was to practice songs to
be sung at the Grand Sabbath School Jubilee,
soon to be given in the New Tabernacle. This
being the first public rehearsal given for the pur-
pose, it may be considered that the musical tal-
ent exhibited by a majority of the young vo-

[Column 2]
calists was very encouraging to those interest-
ed in the forthcoming Jubilee. From the ap-
pearance of the interior of the building in
which the rehearsal took place, when as many
as seats could be found for were accommodated,
it might also be inferred that when the Grand
Jubilee comes off, there will be little room for
spectators, even in the New Tabernacle, when
the City Sabbath Schools are joined by those
of the different Wards in Salt Lake County
outside of the City, and also those of Weber
and Utah counties.


