		MISCELLANEOUS.

	IF the gates of heaven were suddenly to
swing open, and all mankind be asked on
equal terms to enter into the kingdom, don't
you know some people who would pause to
see what some other people were going to
do about it, and some who would refuse alto-
gether if they saw the so-and-so about to
enter?—"Boston Transcript."

	GOOD, kind, true, holy words dropped in
conversation may be little thought of, but
they are like seeds of a flower or fruitful
tree falling by the way-side, borne by some
bird afar, haply thereafter to fringe with
beauty some barren mountain side, or to
make glad some lonely wilderness.

	THE saloon keepers of Pittsburg are said
to have been panic stricken upon the appear-
ance of a band of school girls on the street
the other day. They thought the women
crusaders of the Temperance Movement
were coming upon them, and every door and
window was closed until the young ladies
had passed by. Surely, woman carries a
superior influence with her, of which she is
not at all times aware.

	A STRANGE account is published in Chi-
nese newspapers of the suicide of nine young
girls at Whampoa. They were living with
different families in the village, and seeing
how much misery the women endured from
the tyranny of their husbands, they resolved
to escape a similar fate by putting an end to 
their existence. So they met at the bank
of a river in the vicinity, and sewed their
garments together to prevent a separation,
and thus plunged into the deep.

	"WE can all earn our living, father," was
a remark made in a family by one of several
young ladies, a short time since.
	"That is right, my daughter," was the
reply of the parent; "that fact I regard as
the point of triumph in your education.
Able and willing are the two words which
when the proper occasion comes will insure
you success, and vindicate the principle that
women should be educated for business and
usefulness as well as for ornament and at-
tractiveness. Never fear to work for your
support, nor fail to encourage others in so
doing."

	SOME of the newspapers announce with
seeming delight that there are women
teachers in the Boston public schools, who
deplore the appointment of women on the
school committees, and say, "they would
rather be under the dominion of men." It
would be strange if it were not so. There
has been a parallelism, step by step, between

[Column 2]
the Anti-slavery and the Woman Suffrage
movements, and it would be strange if it
were to fail at this point. It is always the
result of a long career of subjection, that
those who have been reared under it have
to be educated into self-respect.

	MISS Maggie Knight of Holyoke, has
originated and successfully patented a square
bottom paper bag, which is without doubt
destined to supersede all other styles for the
general use of grocers and others, the in-
vention securing far greater convenience in
handling, and additional strength. Miss
Knight has further increased the value of
her discovery by inventing a machine for
folding the bags, which has also been pat-
ented, and the first large machine is now
building at the Ames Co.'s machine shop in
Chicopee. The machine is designed to do
the work of thirty girls, cutting, folding,
pasting, and drying 30,000 per day, with the
assistance of two girls as tenders. About
half a billion of the sharp-bottom bags were
made and used in this country last year.


