		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE PRESS in some portions of the coun-
try, is much gratified over the fact that no
less than thirteen distinguished English
journalists have recently been elected mem-
bers of Parliament. Why should not Par-
liament as well feel gratified for the same
cause? Is not "M. P." quite as expressive
and nearly as honorable denoting Man of
the Press as Member of Parliament?
	PRESIDENT GRANT lately nominated Miss
Ada C. Sweet for Pension Agent at Chicago,
and the Senate confirmed the nomination
without the usual reference to a committee.
A gentlemanly cotemporary asks if it is not
more than probable that if women were
more frequently appointed to responsible
disbursing positions, there would be “less
stealing and plundering?” The thought is
suggested that at least there would be no
harm in experimenting in this respect, and
no danger of matters in which the puplic
generally is concerned becoming worse
through such measures being adopted.

	THE SERVANT girl problem has been
solved by Louisa M. Alcott. She advises
ladies to employ ladies instead of ignorant,
overbearing foreigners where it can be
done; and then, to treat them as equals, not
as inferiors. She says: "Now this experi-
ment is worth telling, because it has been
successfully tried with three different
women; and there are plenty more ready to
do their best in families where they can be
properly treated. Some ladies may object
to having a stranger at the table, yet it is
better to have a lady there  than an ear at the
key-hole and a tongue to gossip of family
affairs to the neighbors' girls. Some would
think that this helper would be in the way
if she sat in the parlor, but a well-bred
woman knows by instinct when to go and
when to stay. Miss S. gently vanished when
visitors came in, or if some duty kept her
there I introduced her, and so prevented
any feelings of awkwardness on the part of
guests, or that sense of exclusion which is
so hard to a social or sensitive woman."
	THERE IS no doubt that the appetite for
drink is often hereditary. The following
illustration of the fact concerning it is a 
painful one, yet may prove of interest to
many. The Pacific "Medical and Surgical
Journal" says. "A striking instance of this
kind has been recently brought to our know-
ledge. A lady, wife of the mayor of an
Atlantic city, was a confirmed inebriate, and
in spite of the most assiduous efforts made
by her husband and others to restrain and
reform her, continued to drink until her life
fell a sacrifice to the indulgence. Her grand-
mothers were both intemperate, and both 
died from drunkenness. Several of her
brothers were inebriates. She had one
child, a daughter, who exhibited in child-
hood a marked appetite for strong drink,
and who drank to intoxication whenever she
had the opportunity. The child died at the
age of six years. During her brief life she
was known to have been repeatedly drunk.
So inveterate was her appetite for liquor
that she would resort to the most cunning
tricks in order to procure it—tricks such as
would do credit to the ingenuity of an
adult." Such an appetite, though it may be
inherited, can be overcome if a person is
possessed of sufficient conscientiousness and
morality to enable him, or her, to earnestly
resist the temptation to indulge. And al-
though an individual may find it extremely
trying to leave off such a habit, which often
really belongs to nature, yet no person has
any right to cultivate or allow the same to
grow upon him, and thus transmit it to oth-
ers, who, perhaps, will be only weaker and
less able to resist the evil, than himself.


[Column 1]
