		MY TWO CHILDREN.

The low amber light fades away in the west
  O'er the verge of the hill tops afar,
And Night, in the midst of her sable crest,
  Sets the clear evening star.
Sweet silence comes down on the busy world
   Like a blessing from father to child,
And the starry glory, above us unfurled,
   Rejoices as God Himself smiled.

Faint, dewy-winged zephyrs go wandering by
   With whispers of sweet repose;
The leaves in the treetops contentedly sigh,
   And delicate Flora-bells close;
The birdlings lie folded 'neath brooding wings—
   Their bough-cradles rocked by the air—
But never a bird, though divinely it sings,
   Can as my baby-birdling be fair.

This eve, when the angel of sleep drew near,
   She nestled close into my breast;
Her sweet baby-nothing, cooed into my ear,
   Made music which mothers love best;
Soft kisses rained over lips, forehead and eyes,
   Dimpled fingers crept over my hair
With fluttering motion like bright butterflies,
   Which revel o'er flower-beds rare.

My heart was a harp and emotion the strings
   Which her fingers swept o'er with rare skill;
A harmony, perfect as angelhood sings,
   Seemed through my whole being to thrill.
So finely vibrated those harpstrings of soul,
   So exquisite was their accord,
A ripple of pain through the melody stole,
   More precious than joy's full award.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	
Sweet memories came of another dear head
   To a mother's warm bosom pressed;
Of other hands wavering over my head,
   Impelled by a sweet unrest;
Of other lips raining the blessed balm
   Of kisses upon my face;
Another sweet voice whose every tome
   In my heart found a resting place.

Deep yearning, as over a life-hope gone,
   Comes with this remembrance alway;
But 'tis wholly engulfed in the heavenly joy
   That an angel of God's perfect day
Is mine, by the passion of motherhood won,
   By love and fond memory bound,
To meet me with joy when my earth work is done,
   To be mine while duration rolls round.

I almost could hear the faint rustle of wings
   And see the star eyes of my child—
I felt the old rapture within me spring
   As it did when my first-born smiled.
To feel that loved presence for moments too brief
   And waken to find it has flown,
Accounts for that shadow and semblance of grief
   Which haunted my soul-harp's tone.

But sigh, summer leaves, to the whispering air,
   Sweet Flora-bells dreamily close,
And mother-birds, rock, in your bough-cradles fair,
   Your nestlings to balmy repose;
For I'm not bereaved, though but one brow I kiss,
   Though but one form I lull on my breast;
My sainted one whispers me measureless bliss,
   Which soothes my sick longings to rest.

Though Death stole from out my encircling arms
   My bright baby-blossom so fair,
I defy him to rifle Love's chambers so warm—
   And safely my treasure dwells there,
And sweet the communion together we hold,
   My TWO lovely children and I,
At eve, while the curtains of amber and gold
   Softly fade in the western sky.
