PHILANTHROPY BETTER THAN
		         PHILOSOPHY.
		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
                                         "I pray thee, then,
Write me, as one, who loves his fellow men."
						LkIGH HUNT.
	In this the enlightened nineteenth cen-,
tury when the arts and sciences have attain-
ed such unparalled perfection, and know-
ledge pours forth in such voluminous tor
ents with the great majority of mankind,
the head takes the precedence of the heart.
Men and women are judged, estimated,
weighed, according to their mental endow-
ments, their intellectual acquirement or their
capacity for business; in short the brain is
the person irrespective of the heart. Strange
indeed, when Christianity has unfurled her
banners of light, that people who profess, to
be thoroughly versed in the New Testa-
ment, so run, counter to the teachings of
the Savior in whom they implicitly belive,
and whose divine life and blameless char-
acter they take as a standard of perfect ex-
cellence. Who in all His sayings and min-
isterings among the children of men, rarely
alluded to the intellect, while He continu-
ally appealed to the heart and spirit. Who
chose for his disciples; poor, and illiterate
fishermen; and exhorted at all times, to
works of benevolence and charity. Who
proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, in
His life, His works and His sufferings, that
He loved His fellow-men. St. Paul tells us,
that though we possess all knowledge and,
all power, and have not charity it profiteth
nothing. Also that knowledge vanisheth
away but charity abideth.
	The exclusive cultivation of the intellect
and the constant process of reasoning, bring-
ing, to bear continued supplies of knowledge,
may make an accomplished scholar, a bril-
liant orator, a profound logician, or a stoi-
cal philosopher; but these advantages, or
benefits are too often gained at the expense
of the soul. Shakespeare says,
	“There are more things in heaven and earth
	Than are dreamt of, in our philosophy."
Then we cannot be too careful, that
while we cultivate the mind, we do not en-
rich it by impoverishing the heart; that we
stimulate to action the sentiments, the sym-
pathies and all those finer feelings which
prompt the little kindnesses and courtesies
that make life so pleasant and desirable—
so near akin to heaven. Let us examine
ourselves, and see what “spirit we are of"
—whether we are living for a noble pur-
pose, to benefit our fellow-men; or whether
we are lifted up in the pride of our boasted
knowledge, forgetful of that God who liveth
and speaketh still, an inspiration in the
heart to be the food of the inner life, a
spirit which communes forever; which
teaches, pleads, rebukes, comforts, does all
that is involved in, the manifold word “Par-
aclete. A well of living water springing
up continually, if we but listen to its musi-
cal flow, that we may draw from it always
afresh for every variety of circumstance,
every occasion for sympathy, and for every
thirsty heart which comes to us.
	The tastes, the feelings, the sentiments,
the affections, are more absolutely the per-
son than either intellectual attainments or
position in society; and yet we often pass
by and totally ignore the true coin, and ac-
cept the mere outside trapping, the gilding,
and by these, estimate character, whereas,
they are at best,but"fragmentary evidence."
	Smartness, shrewdness, quickness of ap-
prehension, and a tact for business—so
highly esteemed by the modern world—
are not half so valuable to a human being
[Column 2]
as a spontaneous appreciation of the beau-
tiful, and that divine influence which fills
the soul with love and gratitude; that sensi-
bility of feeling, which is able to discrimi-
nate so minutely in matters pertaining to
the heart. Sympathy is the “golden key”
which unlocks the treasures of the soul;
and this depends not upon philosophy, or
any mental training, but upon an intuitive
vividness and warmth of affection that
quickens thought and imagination, into
something unerring as instinct; a love for
ones fellow beings, that overwhelms the
bitter with the sweet, and makes justice
glow with pity, through a deeper faith and
a larger hope in God and man, with which
no reasoning or philosophy can compete, but
which stamps the true philanthropist.
	Salt Lake City March 24th. 1874.


