								LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
	From Farmington, Davis Co, we receive
the following: On Wednesday, March 11th,
the Young Ladies’ Association of Farming-
ton had the pleasure of a visit from Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Mary I. Horne. All the
ward were invited to attend a meeting got-
ten up for the purpose of hearing from these
ladies. The meeting was largely attended,
the house being filled to overflowing. The
audience was extremely attentive, deeply
interested and appreciative. The speakers
were earnest; their remarks applicable, bear-
ing the impress of mighty Truth, their ex-
[Column 2]
﻿hortations soul stirring and well received,
will, without doubt, be lastingly remem-
bered. We are much obliged to the sisters,
for their visit, and can bear testimony to the
truth of the assertion that “They do good
wherever they go."
			LAURA STAYNER, Sec.
	The Secretary writes from Rockport,
Summit Co., April 16th, 1874. Our Society
was organized Sept 20th, 1873. Mrs Ann
Bryant was chosen President, Elizabeth
Vernon and Alice M. Malin her Counselors,
Charlotte Marchent Treasurer. We are but
few, our settlement being small, still we feel
well in helping to roll on the great work in
which we are engaged, in relieving the
needy and comforting the distressed, when
we have any among us. Accept our best
wishes for the success of your interesting
and valuable paper in advocating the cause
of Woman in the true sense of the word.
			SARAH STAKER, Secretary.
					TOOELE CITY.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have wished a long time, to drop you a
line to let you know that we are all alive in
Tooele; and though we do not make a big
noise, still our course is onward, and by the
help of God, we intend it shall so continue
to be. Our reports financially, this year, are
very cheering. We have a good Society
here, the Sisters are united and diligent in
every good work. We wish you, and all
lovers of truth, every success in your labors.
The EXPONENT is a splendid paper; that it
may long live to bless us with its choice
teachings and influence, is the prayer of
yours,
		MARY MEIKLEJOHN, President.
		EMILY WARBURTON, Secretary.
From HOLDEN, MILLARD CO., April 10th.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I will now endeavor to give you a brief
sketch of our fourth annual meeting, which
was held on the 20th of March. There were
present, President Thos. Callister of Fill-
more, Elders David R. Stevens, John Ellet,
Walter Stevens, and a few other brethren of
this place. Meeting opened according to
the usual form. The financial report of the
past year was read and received satisfacto-
rily by the hearers. The presiding officers,
namely: Abigail E. Stevens,President; Fan-
ny N. Johnson first, and Mary Ellet second
Counselors; Mary A Savage, Treasurer; Em-
ma J. Bennet, Secretary, and also the teach-
ers were unanimously sustained. Prest.
Callister addressed the meeting at some
length, touched upon the united order, the
fashions of the world, and the results there-
of; was well pleased with the condition of
the Society, and considered great credit due
to it. Prest. D. R. Stevens, Elders John El-
let and Wm. Stevens encouraged the Society
to press forward, and bore their testimonies
to the truth of this Work. We truly had a
time of rejoicing. A party was given in the
evening; dancing, songs, recitations &c.,
were the amusements indulged in; and
Prest. Callister returned his thanks for the
good order that was maintained. The
Committee of Arrangements, Sarah John-
son, Charlotte Badger, Ann E. Teeples.
			EMMA J. BENNET, Sec.
	FROM RICHFIELD, April 14th 1874.
	Our Society is in good condition and do-
ing well. We have lately given a couple
of parties and a concert for the purpose of
gathering means for assisting to build us a
hall. We gained forty-six dollars. Our
monthly meetings are held every Fast-day,
[Column 3]
with full attendance, and we enjoy the
Spirit of the Lord. May we ever increase
in the knowledge of the truths of the gospel.
		METTE C. PETERSON, President.
			ANE B. NELSON, Secretary.
	The following is also from Richfield.
	According to previous arrangements, some
of the young ladies of Richfield, met at the
house of Mary A. Farnsworth, on the 13th
of March, 1874, for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Retrenchment Association. The fol-
lowing officers were elected, Mrs, Mary A.
Farnsworth, President, Miss Eliza Ogiloio,
and Mrs. Christina Larson, Counselors, Mrs.
Mary Seegmiler Secretary, and Miss Jane
Baker, Treasurer. Resolved by unanimous
vote that the society hold meetings once in
two weeks and that their motto be IM-
PROVEMENT.
		MARY SEEGMILLER, Secretary.


