	TO A YOUNG LADY FRIEND.

Dear Girl! you are just starting on in the race
	Which humanity offers to all!—
And many competitors join in the chase,
And many you'll find who will try to displace
	Your footsteps from reaching the goal.

But calmly press on, keep the goal in your view,
	You have much that will help you along—
You'll find that you'll ever have plenty to do,
If you, to yourself remain faithful and true,
	Without troubling yourself with the throng.

Look into your brain—watch its exquisite art,
	See how busy its MAKER has been!—
Search its innermost cloisters, view every part,
	And then worship the God of that scene.

The God who has form'd you—your heart and your brain,
	Which are MINES of rich wealth all you own—
To work them in wisdom, that you may retain
The gold and the jewels they richly contain,
	Adorning hereafter your crown!

Walk slowly, walk softly, walk calmly along,
	Seeking wisdom to guide and direct;
That hereafter, when mingling in life's busy throng,
It will plainly be seen to what class you belong,
	And may that be to God's own Elect.
							HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. CITY, Sept. 1878.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A "Farmer's Wife" puts the following home
questions to the readers of the American Agricul-
turist. Attention to these little matter would
save many steps by weary feet, and the feeling
that the men and boys of the household are indif-
ferent and careless in making work, which is some-
times harder to bear than unnecessary work itself:
	Do you, after having kindled the fire, sweep
away the shavings and ashes neatly, or leave them
on or around the stove? When you bring in a
pail of water, are you careful not to spill it, or must
some one use the mop after you every time? When
you (men and boys) leave the barn yard, do you
scrape the dirt from your boots, or bring it to the
clean door steps or, what is worse into the house,
and scrape it on the nicely polished cooking stove,
that has cost an hour's hard rubbing to make
bright? Do you ever spit on the stove floors, or
carpets? Do you leave hats and overcoats in the
halls?—or do you wear them in and lay them on the
table with papers, etc., scattering hay seeds and
dust over the cloth, and its contents, making it nec-
essary to remove and replace them much oftener
than would be required, if the rules of order were
observed? Do you put your clothes in their places,
or leave them for some female member of the fam-
ily to take care of?
	I could ask many more questions of similar im-
port about door yards, gates, garden walls, fences,
tool houses, etc., but I will not intrude. I insist
that farmers' homes ought to, and might be, as
neat and beautiful as any others' if all would do
their work in the best manner, or at the earliest
opportunity, and not leave for another what they
ought to do themselves. I know that long in-
dulged habits are hard to overcome, but may I not
hope that young men will heed advice. You
would not like to have a slatternly wife; but if you
are slovenly in your habits you could not be happy
with a neat one, for she would be dissatisfied and
unhappy, and unless she were uncommonly heroic, 
you would be likely to hear of it. Perhaps you think
these things of a very small moment, but I know of
but few things that grieve and fret a woman more,
when she is weary and dispirited, than to have all
her efforts at order and neatness unappreciated;
and I know too, "more offend from want of thought
than want of feeling." So let me say to farmer's 
boys, and girls too, if you wish to have pleasant,
happy homes, be not only virtuous, but orderly, 
industrious, and neat.—"Farmer's Wife" in
"Amn Agriculturist"
	Dried Meat for Medical Puposes.—The Ameri-
can Journal of Pharmacy says:—It is prepared by

[Column 2]
Daneucy of Bordeaux by cutting fresh meat fine,
spreading upon muslin, drying rapidly in a cur-
rent of air and rubbing into a brown powder,
which is almost inodorous, and has a slightly saline
taste. It is readily taken by patients, spread
upon bread, or a teaspoonful of it mixed with a 
cupful of broth or soup, and by children, if baked
into biscuits.
	Felon on the Finger.—The following simple
prescription is recommended as a cure for the
distressing ailment: Take common rock salt, such
as is used for salting down beef or pork: dry it in
an oven; then pound it fine, and mix it with spirits
of turpentine in equal parts; put it in a rag
and wrap it round the parts affected, and, as it
gets dry put on more, and in twenty-four hours the
felon will be dead. It will do no harm to try it. 
	Benefits of Turpentine,—A writer in the Scien-
tific American says let any one who has an attack
of lock-jaw take a small quantity of spirits of tur-
pentine; warm it and pour it into the wound—no
matter what the wound is—and relief will follow in
less than one minute. Nothing better can be ap-
plied to a severe cut or bruise than cold turpentine;
it will give certain relief almost instantly. Tur-
pentine is also a sovereign remedy for croup.
Saturate a piece of flannel with it, and place the
flannel on the throat and chest, in very severe
cases from three to five drops on a lump of sugar
may be taken inwardly. Every family should have a
bottle of turpentine on hand.
	Drink and Air.—Persons with weak stomachs
should be careful about loading them with cold wa-
ter. Children are apt to use too much ice water.
It is rare that a person can drink much water at
meal time without injury. Still more harm is
done by the use of other drinks than by this natu-
ral beverage,—Some air is always entangled in the
food as it is chewed and passes to the stomach.
When people eat in great haste, much more air is
swallowed; enough often to create wind in the
stomach and seriously interfere with digestion.—
“Herald of Health.”


