FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE British Empire, in area comprises
about one-third of the surface of the globe.
	MARSHALL Serrano, Presiderit of the Span-  
ish Republic, is to receive a salary of $100,
000.  
	HOLLAND has only 3,500,000 inhabitants
yet owns $160,000,000 of American securi-
ties.
	THE new Encyclopedia Britannica, now
in course of preparation, it is said will cost one
million dollars.
	BEFORE the war in Georgia an able-bodied
negro used to cost $1,200 now you can 
lease a convict for five years for $55.
	THE new city directory of St. Louis,
just published, puts the present population
of that town at 473,560 souls.
	TWO years ago, two barrels of live perch
were placed in the pond at Tisbury, Mass.,
which have increased so that now seining is
profitable.
	KING Koffee’s umbrella, which is as
large as a tent, is among the spoils of the
Ashantee war, and will be exhibited at a
public museum in London.
	AT London, recently the University boat 
race was won by the Cambrige crew by two
lengths. Distance, four miles, two fur-
longs—time, twenty-three minutes, thirty-
five seconds.
	THE Iowa Legislature has enacted a law
against baggage smashers. The penalty for
recklessly injuring baggage is a fine of not
less than $50, nor more than $100, and im-
prisonment not exceeding thirty days.
	ACCORDING to an entry found in the Re- 
cord Office, King Edward III paid $16 on
the 1st of March 1360, toward the ransom
of the poet Chaucer, who had been taken
prisoner in the war with France in 1359-60.
	A NEW HYGROSCOPE:—An instrument
for indicating a decided change in the rela-
tive quantity of moisture of the atmosphere 
is now used in Paris, consisting of strips of
paper which have been dipped in a cobalt salt 
solution, containing common salt and gum 
arabic. In dry weather this prepared paper
is blue, and in wet it is rose red.
	THE Janesville, Tenn., Tribune, says:—.
Rev. Thomas Smith, of the Baptist church,
who lives at Parrotsville, in Cooke County,
Tenn., is 101 years old. He still preaches
and rides horse-back to his appointments.
He was the pastor of one church forty-four
years, remembers the battle of Brandywine;
quotes Scripture rapidly; memory unim-
paired; never missed a meal on account of 
sickness: never took but three doses of
medicine; was always temperate; enjoys 
good health, eats heartily, reads without 
glasses and never did use them. He is
probably the oldest preacher in America.
	THE large clock at the English Parlia- 
ment House is the largest in the world.
The four dials of this clock are twenty two 
feet in diameter. Every half minute the
point of the minute hand moves nearly seven
inches. The clock will go eight and a half 
days, but only strikes for seven and a half,
thus indicating any neglect in winding it
up. It strikes quarter hours, and the mere
winding up of the striking mechanism takes
two hours. The pendulum is fifteen feet
long; the wheels are of cast iron, the hour
bell is eight feet high and nine feet in di-
ametor, weighing nearly fifteen tons, and
the hammer alone weighs more than four
hundred pounds.


