Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, Scptember 1, and September 15, 1894 "For THE Ricuts or THE WonEN OF ZION AND THE Ricuirs OF THE Women or ALL NATIONS" A CONSTITUTION FOR UTAT]: The men who frame the Constitution for the State of Utah are expected to build a structure that will be permanent, that will have a sure foundation and will not need continually patching up because it is not equally well poised and properly balanced in all its parts; the strangers who visit beautiful Utah will agree that it has the advantage of almost any other section of country in our broad Jand in natural facilities and in beauty of location, and therefore it should have the best, the wisest and the strongest Constitution, to correspond with its belongings. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY MERTING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY:... Sister L. D. Alder: "I have worked at the straw work years ago, we had hats for sale also rag carpets, in the Relief Society. I am anxious these home industries should succeed."... Sister Susan Grant of Davis County said: "I take great interest in Home Industry. — trade at the Woman's Store. Also advise the sisters in our stake to do so. The Lord tells us to adorn ourselves with the workmanship of our own hands.. In years past I always felt like getting in a corner and staying there; since taking 2 an active part in public duties, have experienced great joy in my labors." —V. R. Young, Sec. HARVEST TIME Harvest time, and a bright gold sun, Sends its beams o'er the yellowing fields; The heavy grain, and sweet-scented meadows, All tell of bounteous yields; The clang of mower, and clash of scythe Are gathering the yield of the soil; Every where is fruitfulness To gladden the sons of toil. —M. R. T. Gnffith VERSATILE WOMEN: Charlotte Carmichael Stopes in British Free-W/omen— Their Historical Privilege, finds that women have been Queens Consort; Queens Regnant; and Queens Regent. That as noble women they have received homage, held courts.... Could and did inherit public offices... That as peeresses they could be, and were summoned to Parliament in person or by proxy. NOT A PARADISE: The historian tells us that it was no garden of the Hesperides upon which the pioneers gazed that memorable July morning. Aside from its scenic splendor, which was indeed magnificent, there was little to invite, and much to repel in the prospect presented to their view... On all sides a seemingly endless waste of sage brush bespangled with sunflowers—the paradise of the lizard, the cricket, and the rattlesnake... A silence unbroken, save by the cricket's ceaseless chirp, the roar of the mountain torrent, or the whirr and twitter of the passing bird... A desolation of centuries. —Selected Page 588 OROTHY CANFIELD FISHER, one of America's most beloved writers, has recently published Vermont Tradition. Tt celebrates the worth of a free people who have stamped the American nation as a Whole with somcthing of their character. CEEVATI M. ROSENTHAL, leader in social work education. Conceived and is largely responsible for a program for aiding epileptics. It is the first plan in the United States to combine medical treatment, research. Vocational traming, and social adjustments for sufferers from epilepsy. ANNA FELLA CARROLL and ABRAHAM LINCOLN (Falmouth and Company, Manchester, Maine) is a new book by Sydney Greenbie and_ his wife, Marjorie Barstow Greenbie. It tells the authentic story of Anne, more abo. Litionist than Lincoln himself, though a Maryland aristocrat from a family of slaveholders. Her keen political insight, talent for writing, and military genius were ever at the command of President Lincoln. IVE Latter-day Saint students from Utah, Idaho, and California, are winning special recogni