Annual General Relief Society Conference HE annual general Relief Socicty conference will be held Wednesday and 'Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1954. On 'Vhursday afternoon in the 'l'abernacle, a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Socicty and the public are ivited. The attendance at the mectings on Wednesday and on 'lhursday morning is limited to stake and mission officers. A feature of the conference will be the cornerstone laying ceremony for the Rehef Society Building at Main and North 'Temple Streets, Wednesday afternoon at 4:15. Buying Soxthooks and V) isual Aids for Relief Society of essons ROM inquirics which come to the general board, it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should _present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks and visual aids which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these supplies with funds from the Relief Society general fund. 'Uhe education counselor should sce that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor ls responsible for collecting the books and visual aids and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it ls recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook or visual aid. Education counsclors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alcrt to opportunitics of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. 'Relief Society Handbook Available The [Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, 1949 edition, is available at the office of the Gencral Board, 4o North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. 'This handbook contains official instructions on Rehef Society policies and procedure. Page 592