storing wheat, we are printing the following information contained in a bulletin issued by the General Church Welfare Committee: 1. Variety: Dark Hard Winter Wheat (Turkey) Dark Hard Spring or Marquis Wheat 2. Grade should be No. 2 or better (not less than 58 Ibs. Per bushel). Protein should be from 11.50 or 12.50 per cent. Wheat should be cleaned for human consumption and free from smut and foreign material. 3. Moisture content is most important. It is reeommended that the moisture content be less than 10 per cent. Insects are unable to reproduce in clean grain with a moisture of g per cent or below. 4. Containers should be suitable to hold weight of grain, protect it from rodents and insects, and should be non-conductors of moisture (metal containers have been most satisfactory ). 5- Quantity will vary according to individual needs. An active person will require more than an inactive one. As a guide, from past experience, one year's requirement will vary from 70 Ibs. Per year for children to 300 Ibs. For an adult per capita. ('his refers only to bread, cereal, and other normal requirements. If circumstances cause wheat and wheat products to become the principal diet, the amount required per individual would be proportionally increased. ) 6. Storage. Wheat will keep indefinitely if properly stored in a cool dry place with moisture under 10 per cent. It should be free from any foreign materials, especially those which have odors (kerosene, onions, petroleum products, etc.). If wheat is stored for more than one year it should be turned and aerated at least twice a year. Wheat can be cleaned by screening it over a hand sieve made of screen similar to wire door screen. 'The most successful storage has resulted from stock rotation, using old wheat first, and replacing it with new wheat at harvest season. >< Si aithful Farmer Mabel Law Atkinson When working for a harvest, he would sow The seed with care in fertile, waiting soil, And ask the Father to reward his toil— Then would continue on to use the hoe. Page 598 Gert, NB AV ARKO a Nwws 10 BMGs De 06S Sx eet Man Qting gens OOM: AAR EPORAONI ROM eT ma § q ' Wood Carving. O©;/ Painting. And Mleedlecraft Ella Call Cook, Afton, Wyoming. Keeps Herself Busy and Makes Other People Happy With Her Multiple Hobbies LS ce COOK, sixty-nine years old, is seen holding a scroll wood carving, "Queen Anne's Sleigh." Also in the photograph are a hand-carved shelf in scroll design and five pieces of toy furniture. Sister Cook also carved the graceful balustrade seen at the right of the picture. Other items illustrated are: a pompom bedspread, a knitted bed jacket, crocheted tidy, netted doily (on Sister Cook's lap); crocheted tablecloth; eyelet embroidered pillowcases; embroidered doily; tatted doily; cluny lace-trimmed curtains; hand-painted china plate; syrup pitcher, plate, and candlestick; punchwork panel, crocheted bag, crocheted bedspread, nylon crocheted scarf, beaded handbag; "Broken Star' quilt, "Turkey Tracks" quilt, "Tumbling Blocks" quilt; hooked rug; oil painting of roses. Sister Cook, mother of eight children, has served in the stake Relief Society presidency and is now a visiting teacher in her ward. ~~? + On Gua rd Pansye H. Powell When summer nights hold clover sweets, Beset by insect vandals, Then firefly watchmen light their beats With flashing neon-candles! Page 599