spendthrift artistry, No thought of coming gloom must now intrude Upon this transient burst of revelry. Too brief the burnished interlude, too soon The swiftly falling twilight steals the day; In scattered heaps her empty tubes are strewn, And all her canvased glory piled away. Yet ever there shall live within the heart The vagrant sorcery of autumn's art. Collect and Classify Ytems of Interest Thalia Black KE a large box handy, containing a loose-leaf notcbook, art paper, type paper, and lined paper, scissors, paste, and a pencil or pen, and carbon paper. In different sections of the loose-leaf notebook collect pictures, poems, stories, jokes, games. Use only one side of each page, so that when a picture or article is used something else of interest will not be destroyed. A scrapbook of this kind is invaluable as a reference for visual aids in lesson giving, for helping children find suitable talks, and pocms and pictures for Sunday School, Primary, and school, for helping with parties, and for the joy it brings to collect and save the best from each day's activities. —_———_—_———_o-4 Pre Recipe for Homemade Soap Eva Carter Place in a large enamel vessel: 11 ~~. Fat, heated till warm, and strained Yc. Borax c. Cold water "A Cc, sugar 1 can of Ive 4 tsp. Oil of sassafras Yc. Ammonia Boil sugar in one cup water and add to rest of water. Mix lye, borax, and ammonia, stir (while addmg the water) until cool and creamy. Because the fumes may be injurious, the mixture should be stirred outdoors. Add this mixture to the warm melted fat, stirring constantly until it begins to thicken. Add oil of sassafras, and pour into enamel pan to cool. Cut into bars. —_— ————_——o-- So a Cat. Being Put Out Lizabeth Wall Be glad to be abroad, small furry friend; The spangled world is magic to explore, The darkened alley reaches without end; The silent roadway is a foreign shore. Tonight is not a mght for housebound souls. Behind the neighbors' porches there are new And hitherto-unguessed-at cubbyholes For you to poke your questing nose into. Go run like wind across the greening lawn, Go chase elusive balls of shadow-silk, And with a bib of yellow stardust on, Drink moonlight from your cup instead of milk. Page 613