	ALMOST A SUCCESS.

	"In this perverted age
	Who most deserves, can't always most engage:
	So far is worth from making glory sure,
	It often hinders what it should procure."
	One of the most frequent occurrences of hu-
man life is to just fall short of attaining what
one most earnestly desires. What punishment
could be greater to the sensitive mind, than to
launch forth rich with expectation, with al-
most a certainty in one's heart that success was
in full view, and when just about to grasp it,
seemingly secure in its possession, find they
have only clasped the cloud, the shadow, the
covering that hid the real object from sight.
	These baffled hopes, these ruined expecta-
tions, are harder to bear than that which was
anticipated a failure from the beginning; a
persistent struggle for strength with that which
was stronger, and withstands all the unwearied
efforts for success.
	Building up before the mind a fabric suited
to the capacities and energies, and shaping
molding and designing every available resource
towards this object; bending and persisting to
bring all the powers in one's possession to make
this formation real; to grasp with ardent and
enthusiastic aspirations every energy and fac-
ulty with such an earnestness of effort as de-
serve success by virtue of their very sincerity,
it is scarcely to be believed that they cannot
one day attain to the heighth of their ambi-
tion, and realize the positive fulfillment of their
purpose.
	These things often remain forever, to poor
short-sighted mortals, unanswered puzzles,
unsolved problems, enigmas which all the
world fail in solving satisfactorily.
	Persons who seemed to possess every requi-
site for success, quick, clever, brilliant, ener-
getic, persevering, whose courage never seems
to flag, ready with all ardor to meet any and
all obstacles in their pathway, yet without
knowing the reason why, never reach the goal
for which they are striving; they have almost
completed what they desired, but not quite;
just at the very moment of possession it eludes
their grasp, and mocks them in the distance.

[Column 2]

They can only show as the result of their la-
bors, the ruined chaos of hope's unsatisfied, de-
sires unrealized; and for it all no analysis of
causes, which will make the position a failure
of a positive nature.
	The question often arises, Was it for want of
faith, a certainty in the heart of the individual
that the purpose they wanted to accomplish
was that for which nature had adapted them?
If so, how utterly useless to persist in attempt-
ing to attain to that against which Nature her-
self had set an unalterable decree: to ignore
the capabilities for action, and for the practical
performance of work which one neither had
brains nor tact to carry into execution, but had
become enamored of, through the seemingly
easily attained suecess of another, whom, per-
haps, Nature had designed for the very groove
into which they so admirably fitted.
	"What man has done man may do," is often
quoted, and similarly also with woman, what
woman has done she may do, but successfully
or otherwise, according to the adaptation of
circumstances, opportunities, capacities and all
the minute details of time, place, surroundings
and last, but most important of all, the inher-
ent qualities of the individual yourself.
	A little more of this and a little less of that
faculty or tendency, and the person would have
been able to make all things balance in pro-
per proportions; or a little paring off or pinch-
ing, squeezing and pushing and perhaps they
might have been securely and snugly ensconced
in the coveted position.
	Such persons never gain any acceptable pop-
ularity except among personal friends, those
who understand the sincerity of their motives
of exertion, and seeing their many good quali-
ties, overlook all deficiencies, and accord them
private sympathy. But how is it with the pub-
lic? How do they regard these unfortunate
speculators, geniuses, office-seekers, book-mak-
ers, authors, etc.? They criticise, judge, con-
demn, yet cannot tell where the fault lies.
	But let one who has not half the real merit
or true genuine excellence, by some clever
means attain the object of his ambition, mount
to the top of the ladder by a mere stroke of
good luck and popularity awaits him, is even
forced upon him. They have struck the public
fancy, toned in with the prevailing spirit of the
times, consequently have ascended in a blaze
of glory, become popular by the universal ac-
cord of the majority, and are perhaps unable
themselves to realize how, or by what wonder-
ful stroke of good fortune they are thus the re-
cipients of the world's favor and praise:
	"It is success that colors all in life;
	Success makes fools admired, makes villains honest.
	All the proud virtue of this vaunting world
	Fawns on success and power, howe'er acquired."

	Children who were carefully trained and edu-
cated in the fight of the Gospel, who were al-
most convinced of the right, and by diligently
applying their hearts to an understanding of
the divine truths, might have had a safe and
sure guide, allow themselves to be allured by
something unreal, which presents to the eye a
more flattering appearance, and lose sight and
hold of that which would be to them "a savor
of life unto life," for the follies and foolish chi-
meras of the fancy, and drift away where there
is no firm foolhold, get beyond the limits of
trust and hope, into a region of doubt, and are
in danger of being stranded forever.
	In looking back, will they not experience the
remorse of conscience, that follows the losing
of the real and positive good, which was just
within their reach, but they exchanged for an
uncertainty which has breught them only sor-
row, regret and failure?


