FLOWERS.

	Let the golden cord of love bind together
life's threads into unity of purpose,and we
shall not have lived in vain.—Ex.
	LET us take care how we speak of those
who have fallen on life's field. Help them
up—not heap scorn upon them. We did
not see the conflict. We do not know the
scorn.
	PITY with its crystal drops is sweetening
many cups of life. And, in return, many a
grateful heart is laying on the palm of pity
the choicest gems of gratitude.
	SUCCESS IN LIFE.—Self-help alone makes
a man succeed. If he has confidence in
himself he may despise the world, because
he is sure to get on by his own determina-
tion to succeed.—Sir Robert Peel.
	HUMILITY is the first lesson we learn
from reflection, and self-distrust the first
proof we give of having obtained a know-
ledge of ourselves.—Gimmerman.
	TRUTH is the bond of union and the basis
of human happiness. Without this virtue
there is no reliance on language, no confi-
dence in friendship, no security in promises
and oaths.—Collier.
	'TIS the mission of hope to hold forth the
germ of many a fair yet fragile flower.
But they blossom forth or wither away, as
God may decree it, in close proximity to
the thorns of bitter disappointment.
	PATIENCE has its charms as well as its
reputed virtue. The charm is in its cheer-
fulness; the virtue in its quiet fortitude to
wait and trust. One adds to the other's
beauty just as a moonbeam resting upon a
placid sea adds to thebeauty of the peace-
ful waters.
	THE grand idea of toiling to rescue the
world from sin nevermastered a man's soul
without enlarging it, without stimulating all
his faculties to unprecedented vigor, unfold-
ing resources not yet imagined to be in him,
and producing a concentration and persever-
ance of action, which cannot fail of realiz-
ing great results.
	IT is the divine attribute of the imagina-
tion that it is irrepressible, unconformable—
that when the real world is shut out, it can
create a world for itself, and with a necro-
mantic power can conjure up glorious shapes
and forms and brilliant visions to make a
solitude populous, and irradiate the gloom
of a dungeon.—Washington Irving.


