NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN A Roman Catholic Church in Brooklyn,
very recently, 9,000 pennies were deposited
in the alms-box one Sunday.
	The CENTENNIAL Exhibition, at Phila-
delphia, will be opened May 10th, 1876.
and will remain open every day, Sundays
excepted, until November 10th. 
	DENMARK HAS made one grand step, in
social improvement and equalization of sex,


by special act of the Danish government.
The National University at Copenhagen is
open to women, upon the same conditions
as to men, with all lectures, examinations,
degrees and diplomas.
	BY THE death of the Vice President, the
duties of that office devolve upon Thomas
W. Ferry, Senator from Michigan, who was
elected president of the Senate in March
last.
	ASSOCIATE JUSTICE John Wells of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, died Nov.
23rd, at Salem, Mass. after a lingering ill-
ness. He was fifty-nine years of age.
	MOUNT HOLYOKE Seminary furnishes a
great number of wives for foreign mission-
aries. The training raceived at that insti-
tution must certainly be of a nature calcu-
lated to inspire heroism, fortitude and great
strength of character. All these requisites
being highly essential in those who would
make the sacrifice of home and friends, for
the sake of duty to their fellow creatures.
	VICE PRESIDENT Wilson died at half-past
eight, a. m., Nov. 22nd, after an illness of
about twelve days. He seemed much better
that morning, and expressed himself, so to
his friends and attendants; he died without
a struggle. Throughout New England there
is said to be every manifestation of sorrow.
Flags are at half mast in all the large cities,
and bells tolled in many of them.
	THE RENOWNED Mlle. Titiens was born
in Hamburg in 1834. Her parents were
natives of Hungary and were of the labor-
ing class. She is herself, at the present
time, immensely wealthy, and her mother
and sisters reside with her at St. John's
Wood, surrounded with all the elegancies
and luxuries wealth can procure. She is
said to be beneficient and hospitable.
	A SMALE volume called "Terpsichore" is
about to be published in Paris. The intro-
duction is by Mlle. Rita Langalli, the pre-
miere danseuse of the opera. She speaks
feelingly of the decadence of the grand
ballet, and says the cause is, the ballet is
now chiefly used as a divertissement to the
opera. She speaks of the deficiency of cos-
tume, at the present time, like this: "It is
not for nothing that the tulle of which our
skirts are made is called tulle-illusion. By
abandoning these skirts, and by substituting
for them flesh-colored drawers charm and
illusion are alike dispelled."


A LITTLE boy wanted to borrow his aunt's
dog for a moment, and asked her to let him
have a piece of string so that he could lead
him. "What are you going to do with
him?" said the good lady. The boy hesita-
ted for a moment, and then said, "Well,
you see a boy round the corner bet me his
dog was a larger dog than yours." "Well,"
said the aunt, "suppose it turns out that his
dog is the larger one?" "Then," said the
nephew, "you'll lose your dog."
	When that little boy becomes a grown up
man we predict that he will be a great bank-
er. He evidently understands the princi-
ple of modern banking—borrow somebody's
dog and bet it against something else.


