FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CHICAGO at the end of the year will have
10,000 more houses than at the beginning.
	THE richest woman in America is Miss
Kitty Wolfe. Her income is $1,000 a day.
	THE Lake Superior Mines since 1850 have
yielded nearly 7,000,000 tons of iron.
	A PEWTER Tea-set, formerly the property
of General Burgoyne, and marked with his
name, is now in possession of a family at
Gansevoort, Saratoga County, where it has
been for nearly a century. It was found
near the battle-field of Saratoga, in a hollow
stump.
	A GIGANTIC Statue of William the Con-
queror has been erected at Falaise. The
monument is surrounded by the statues of
the six first dukes of Normandy, and is the
work of M. Louis Rocket. It is reckoned
one of the finest equestrian statues in Eur-
ope, being several metres in height, and
seven thousand kilogrammes in weight. It
was executed in 1851, but lack of funds has
prevented till now this addition to the memo-
rials of the dukes of Normandy.


SILENT INFLUENCE.—It is the bubbling
stream which flows gently, the little rivulet
which runs along day and night by the
farm-house that is useful, rather than the
swollen flood or winding cataract. Niaga-
ra excites our wonder, and we stand amazed
at the power and greatness of the Creator.
But one Niagara is enough for the world,
while the same world requires thousands
and tens of thousands of silver fountains
and gently-flowing rivulets, that water
every farm and meadow, and garden, and
that shall flow on every day and every
night, with their gentle quiet beauty. So
with the acts of our lives. It is not by
great deeds, like those of the martyrs, that
good is to be done. It is by the daily and
quiet virtues of life—the Christian temper,
the meek forbearance, the spirit of forgive-
ness in the husband, the wife, the father,
the mother, the brother, the sister, the
friend, the neighbor, that it is to be done.


A DOCTOR returned a coat to a tailor be-
cause it did not fit him. The tailor seeing
the doctor at the funeral of one of his pa-
tients, said, "Ah, doctor, you are a happy
man."
	"Why so?" asked the doctor.
	"Because," replied the tailor, "you never
have any of your bad work returned on
hands."


