HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Wax for Sealing Fruit Cans.—Resin one pound;
lard, tallow and beeswax, one ounce each. Melt
and stir well together.
	Buchwheat Cake.—To make the cakes come off
nicely, rub the griddle with half a turnip, which
is considered by many much better than fat.
	Disinfectant.—Burn ground coffee on a hot
shovel as a disinfectant for sick-rooms, refrigera-
tors etc.
	To Glaze Linen.—This may be done by adding
a teaspoonful of salt and one of finely scraped
white soap to a pound of starch.
	Ink-stains in Books.—They may be removed by
wetting the spot with a solution of one ounce ox-
alic acid and half a pint of water.
	To wash Oilcloth.—soap should never be used,
but wash with milk and water and rub dry.
	Excellent China Cement.—This may be made
by stirring plaster of Paris into a thick paste of
strong gum-arabic. apply with a brush and let the
articles stand three days before trying them.
	Shrewsbury Cakes.—Mix a stiff paste with one
and a half pounds of flour, three fourths of a
pound of sifted loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of pound-
ed cinnamon, half a pound of warmed butter and
one egg, with a little milk. Roll it out thin, cut
round and bake in a slack oven.
	Tapioca Cream.—Three tablespoonfuls of tapi-
oca; cover it with water and let soak four hours;
then pour off the water, put in one quart of milk
and boil; then a teacupful of sugar and a little
salt. Stir until it begins to thicken. Pour into a


dish, make a frosting of the three whites of eggs
well beaten up and pour over the top. Eat cold.
	Custard Cakes.—One cup of sugar, one egg,
one-third of a cup of butter, put together and beat
to a cream; add one cup of sweet milk, two cups of
flour; one teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoon-
fuls of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly tins. Cus-
tard for inside, one and a half cups of milk, two
eggs, (reserving one white if frosting is desired) one
tablespoonful of corn-starch and one cup of sugar.
Flavor to suit the taste.
	Shellac Varnish.—Dissolve gum-shellac in alco-
hol; keep it well corked. This is said to be the
best waterproof varnish for boots and shoes known.
Applied to the soles when dry, it prevents the
leather from absorbing the water. It is unsurpass-
ed as a remedy for cuts and burns. It will make
wood water tight, and prevents its warping. It
will mend wood, crockery or glass. To keep
moths from furs, apply this varnish to a paper
bag. After the furs are in, seal the bag up with
the varnish and they are perfectly safe.


