DEAR EXPONENT :

	I am disgusted with the maudlin senti-
ments expressed by the generality of writ-
ers upon the rights and wrongs of women,
Mormon women especially.
	If the women of Utah were as much
abused as thousands upon thousands of wo-
men outside of Mormonism, we would rise
enmasse and take vengeance in our own
hands, and punish the men as they deserve.
	Some of the Journals affect to pity the
down-trodden women of Utah, pretending
to believe we dare not speak for ourselves.
Others that we are too ignorant to be able
to do so. Others again, that we are the
off-scouring of the various nations from
which we have been gathered.
	In answer to the first supposition, is it to
be believed that the women who have shown
faith in their religion, such true heroism of
character, and the fortitude to cross the vast
plains when there was no Railroad to fetch
them, but had to trust in the Almighty and
their husbands and brethren for their safety,
are of a nature to succumb to injustice?
Many of those women had to walk the
most of that thousand miles, and did it
without complaining. Women that would
do this would dare to do anything that they
knew to be right; there was very little sen-
timent in that journey, it was stern, hard
reality as the writer knows. It would take
all soft nonsense out of any woman, and
very likely make a Helen McGregor of her.
	Secondly, that we are too ignorant. By
this assertion I suppose they would have it
believed that the majority neither read nor
write, in fact know nothing, Webster's defi-
nition of ignorance being a want of knowl-
edge, illiteracy. This I boldy deny. The
women of Utah taken as a whole, will sur-
pass, in useful knowledge, the same num-
ber of women in any State or Territory in
the Union.
	The third accusation—that we are the off-
scouring of the various nations from which
we have been gathered. If this is true
those nations are in splendid condition,
for purer women do not exist on the face of
the whole earth. Mormon women don't
employ monsters like Fortmeyer and Davis,
shame on a community that dare not hang
such wretches, but let them escape, to run
at large to continue their fiendish work.
Talk about Mormon depravity, when you
cannot punish the worst of criminals, when
you have depraved women by tens of thou-
sands, and physicians, men and women,
employed in the most wicked practices,
you dare not punish lest respectable people
should be exposed.
	Bah! I am sick of such twaddle. If you
would learn the Mormon creed. "Mind your
own business," it would improve you
vastly.
							MARY.


To Iron Velvet Ribbon.—Dampen the under
side slightly and draw it back and forth over a hot
stovepipe until the velvet is quite dry. A still
better plan—though in winter not always conveni-
ent—is to lay a wet piece of cotton cloth on a hot
flat-iron placed upside down, and while the steam
is rising from it draw the underside of the velvet
lightly backward and forward over the wet cloth.
	To prevent the smoking of a lamp, soak the
wick in strong vinegar, and dry well before you use
it; it will then burn both sweet and pleasant, and
give much satisfaction for the trifling trouble of
preparing.


