HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The Herald of Health gives a simple remedy
for the appetite for strong drink, an orange taken
regularly half an hour before breakfast.
	Persons inclined to catarrh, or who are subject
to it, should as much as possible avoid smoke and
dust. The sleeping room should have an open fire-
place, and should be well aired for an hour in the
early morning, and no draft permitted. The diet
should be nourishing, and alcoholic stimulants
avoided. Flannels worn from the middle of Aug-
ust, and increased in warmth as the season advan-
ces, give protection against the sudden changes of
temperature.
	To treat an ordinary case of sore throat, the
Herald of Health advises the wet pack, as the
simplest and best treatment. A linen cloth wrung
from cold water, and over this a knit or crotchet
band four feet long and four inches wide. Apply
this two or three nights in succession, unless it is a
a very serious case, then the pack should be kept on
during the day. If removed in the morning,
wash the throat in very cold water and rub dry
with a coarse towel and with the hand. This will
prevent taking more cold. The more friction used
the better, let it be a sort of squeezing of the parts
so as to affect the deep seated tissues. In this
way sore throats may be prevented from becoming
chronic.
	Sanitary Staircases: When so much is being
done for the preservation of life and health, it
would be well to remember that stairs are one
point to be considered, and one upon which very
little seems to have been thought. It is an abso-
lute fact that it takes "twenty times as much
strength to climb stairs as to walk on an even
surface, and if you double the speed, you quadru-
ple the force required for the effort. Staircases
should be constructed on sanitary principles;" the
rising step should not be more than six inches in
height, while the width of each step, should be
eleven or twelve inches. If the flight is long, there
should be frequent rests, otherwise the exhaustion
of continued effort will be great."


