WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Nov 13th, 1875, was presided over by Miss
E. R. Snow in the absence of President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. After the usual opening ex-
ercises and reading of minutes, Miss E. R.
Snow gave an interesting account of her
recent mission to Box Elder County, and of
the meetings she had held with the sisters
in the towns and settlements of that county.
She said there was a feeling of great inter-
est manifested among the sisters to engage
in every domestic pursuit which would tend
to promote HOME INDUSTRIES and cause us
to become self-sustaining as a people.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, gave a similar ac-
count of her mission to Sanpete County,
and of the meetings among the sisters and
the general good feeling prevailing in that
part of the Territory. Expressed herself
much gratified in associating with people
who desired to serve God and build up His
kingdom. Many young sisters arose and
spoke and were seemingly inspired with
earnestness and a desire to live lives of
usefulness.

	13th WARD, Nov. 22nd, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request, I endeavor to give you some
account of our Relief Society. We cannot
boast of numbers attending our meetings,
but of the faithful few, who are always on
hand and ready to assist in sustaining
HOME INDUSTRIES, or anything else that
will tend to the building up of the kingdom
of God. The manufacture of hats and bon-
nets from our own braided straw, under the
superintendence of Sister Rumell, is in a
flourishing condition—she has also on hand,
some excellent samples of ladies' felt hats,
made by Brother Shelmadine of the Eigth
Ward. The sisters generally are desirous
to patronize HOME MANUFACTURE, and to
become united in their efforts to this end.
Some slight changes with regard to the days
of meeting may be partly the cause of the
non-attendance of some. But as we are
about to renew our covenants by re-baptism
trust that we shall realize the necessity of
being prompt in our duties and more de-
voted to the cause we have espoused, that
we may eventually be numbered with the
wise virgins, with oil in our vessels and our
lamps trimmed and burning when our Lord
shall come. Our present officers are Mrs.
Rachel R. Grant President, who is ever
faithful in counsel, and ready to administer
to the wants of the poor and needy, assisted
by her faithful Counsellors Mrs. Bathsheba
W. Smith and Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. Eliz-
abeth H. Goddard Secretary, and Mrs. Eme-
line B. Wells Assistant Secretary and Presi-
dent of Teachers, Mrs. Relief Attwood
Treasurer, Mrs. Mary Musser having resign-
ed that office. Your valuable paper is read
with pleasure as well as profit by many of
the sisters. That it may continue to in-
crease in interest as well as other home pro-
ductions is the earnest prayer of,
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
