HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR J. L. Barfoot has resumed his 
former position as superintendent of the Desc-
ret Museum in this city. The Professor is a 
gentleman of learning and ability, and pecu-
liarly adapted to the position by his genuine
love of science.
	WEDNESDAY EVENING, Nov. 24th, there  was
a magical and musical entertainment at the
Salt Lake Theatre, given by Prof. St. Jean and
Mr. J. W. McKenzie.  The audience was tol-
erably large and the performance interesting to
those who are fond of fun and excitement.
	THANKSGIVING EVENING the regular dre-
matic performers as the Salt Lake Theatre
presented a fine holiday bill. The serio-comic
Irsh drama of "Ireland as it is" and a laugha-
ble commedietta, concluded with the illumi-
nated Fairy Fountain. The house was well
filled and the audience seemed to fully appre-
ciate the efforts made to please and entertain
them.
	WE ARE always pleased to announce to the 
public, any happy event concerning the pros-
perity of our friends and associates, and on this
occasion, we are especially gratified to have so
pleasant a subject to chronicle as one of the
most important eras in the life of our very dear
friend and business manager, Miss Cornelia H.
Horne, who was married, Monday noon,
Nov. 29th, to Mr. J. L. Clayton, son of Wm.
Clayton, Esq., of this city. May the choicest
of heaven's blessings rest upon them, and may
each succeding year find them more and more
devoted to each other, is our most sincere and 
earnest wish and prayer.
	THERE ARE complaints being made in many
of the country places, with regard to the irregu-
larity of the malls.  It seems very strange that
there should be such inattention on the part of
those entrusted with such and important public
business. We are acquainted with a lady who,
while recently on a visit to another country,
sent a letter of some importance home; return-
ing after a few days, she found that the letter
had not been received, and on inquiry at the
Post Office in this city, was told there was no
such letter. About a week after the letter
came, which ought to have arrived two weeks
earlier.
	A FEW of the "good sisters" and most inti-
mate friends of Mrs. Bathsheba Smith con-
vened at her residence on Thanksgiving Day,
in the capacity of a SURPRISE Party, think-
ing it one of the most appropriate ways of
spending a day set apart for public and general
thanksgiving. To contribute to each others
happiness is worthy the attention of all, who
value social life in a true light.
	It being the regular meeting day of the 
Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, and the ap-
pointment having been made at Mrs. B. Smith's
residence, after the usual opening excrcises the
meeting was dissolved into one of general in-
terest. Miss E. R. Snow was called upon by
the president of the meeting to deliver the 
opening address; she introduced the subject of 
the women of Utah being represented at the 
Centennial; she wished them to understand it
was not a sectional but national affair and she
wished all to use their utmost influence to give
the woman of Utah a fair representation Mrs.
E. A. Whitney make some excellent remarks
after which dinner was served in good taste,
and style. The utmost good feeling prevailed,
all, with one accord, feeling it had been truly a 
a day of thanksgiving.

[Column 2]
	AGAIN HAS the terrible fire field been raging
in this city, an a[---] [---]. On the
morning of the 16th of November, a fire broke
out in the upper story of the National Bank,
and consumed the whole terior of the build-
ing, the outside, being fire-proof, remained
standing.  The bank was owned by Walker
Bros., and was heavily insured; some adjacent
buildings were destroyed, which were not in-
sured; they were occupied as law offices, dwell-
ing rooms and stores, and the tenants lost
heavily. On Monday morning, Nov. 22nd, a
fire broke out in Howe and Davis' I on Foun-
dry, 17th Ward, which caused great loss of
property, and was not insured; many men were
also thrown out of employment in consequence
of this fire. Hon. W. H. Hooper headed a sub-
scription list with $500, President Young $1000,
Hon. G. Q. Cannon and others $100 for the same
object. Mr. Fairclough, the engineer in em-
ploy of Howe and Davis, was severely burned,
none others injured.


[Column 1]
