WOMAN'S RECORD.

	The Reverend Phebe A. Hanaford of
Jersey City, recently exchanged pulpits
with her son, the Rev. H. A. Hanaford,
Little Falls, New York.
	MISS BRES, of New Orleans, who gradu-
ated not long since at a Medical school in
Paris, has been appointed physician to the
Sultan's harem at Constantinople.
	JENNIE S. Clark, business manager of the
"Golden Dawn," San Francisco, who has
been suffering from ill health for some time
past, is now sufficiently recovered to resume
her work.
	ANOTHER WOMAN'S paper has been started
in Marshaltown, Iowa, called "The Ladies'
Bureau," by Miss Mattie Sanford. One of
the best lady students at the State Univer-
sity is to be a correspondent.


MISS LIND, a graduate from the Royal
 Gymnasium at Stockholm, has recently
opened a class in Tremont Street, Boston,
called the "Swedish Gymnasium." It is
very highly recommended by the Woman's
"Journal;" indeed, our opinion is that more
of this sort of physical training would be
effectually beneficial to women and girls.
	MRS. MARY Small, who died in Ludlow,
Maine, Oct. 6th, at the advanced age of
ninety-four years and six months, probably
had a larger number of descendants than
any other person in the country. She was
the mother of twelve children, all of whom
lived until recently. Nine are still living.
At the time of her death she had sixty
grand-children, one hundred and fifty-seven
great-grand children and twenty-five great-
great-grandchildren.
	MISS WARNER, author of the "Wide,
Wide World," and other writings, recently
conducted the services at her father's fu-
neral; two clergymen were sent for, but as
neither of them came, the daughter knelt
by the coffin and offered a prayer. A lady
who could control her feelings under such
peculiar circumstances, and lead out in this
capacity, so contrary to custom and the pre-
vailing tone of society, must possess un-
common strength of character, and is worthy
of commendation.
	A ROYAL LINGUIST.—The Queen of Hol-
land, who recently gave a reception to the
Association of the Reform of Laws of Na-
tions, assembled at the Hague, has remark-
able linguistical powers. A correspondent
of the London "Echo," who was present,
says: "It is said that the queen can address
her guests, and that with fluency, in every
language spoken in Europe; and on one oc-
casion, on receiving the Hungarian dele-
gates of some learned society, among many
others who attended her majesty addressed
these gentlemen in Latin, pleading as an
excuse that she had not studied the lan-
guage of Hungary. Her skill as a linguist
was put to the test to-day. I had the good
fortune to be near her majesty at the time,
and satisfied myself that she was able to
speak with fluency to the German, French,
English, Danish, Italian, Spanish, Russian
and Swedish delegates."


