MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE—The difficulty
of applying rules to the pronunciation of ourlanguage may be illustrated in two lines
where the combination of the letters ough
is pronounced in no less than seven differ-
ent ways, vis, as o, uf, of, up, ow, oo, and
ock.
	Though the tough cough and hiccough
		plough me through;
	O'er life dark lough my course I still
		pursue.
	CORSETS.—In very young girls, stays and
all articles of attire which press unequally
upon parts of the body, and all ligatures
and bandages, should be avoided; for instead
of offering support to a weak frame, stays
and bandages favor deformity. It is a cu-
rious but undoubted fact, that the majority
of deformed persons are of the female sex,
a circumstance which probably is owing to
the restraints in dress imposed upon that
part of the species, from the mistaken no-
tion that the delicacy of their bodies requires
artificial support.
	CURIOUS EFFECTS OF MUSIC.—Rosseau
speaks of a lady of rank upon whom the ef-
fects of music produced involuntary fits of
laughter. Mankind, however, are not the
only beings subject to its influence. It has
been remarked long since, the excitement
produced on horses by the sound of horn or
trumpet. Bernadin de St. Pierre observed
the spiders in the corners of rooms where
music was being performed, never failed
of approaching the place occupied by mu-
sicians, and that they never returned to
their webs until the sounds of the instru-
ments had ceased. Sir Everard Home has
observed the effect of a piano upon a horse
or elephant, and he found that the attention
of these animals was completely fixed by
the higher notes of that instrument, and
that their fears broke out from the moment
the lower notes were touched. An experi-
ment of a similar nature was made at Paris,
upon two young elephants, male and fe-
male; an orchestra composed of eleven exe-
cuted various pieces of music. The first ef-
fect produced upon the animals was that of
astonishment; but they very soon showed
by their motions the pleasure they felt.


"HERBERT," said a perplexed mother,
"why is it that you're not a better boy?"
"Well," said the little fellow, soberly, look-
ing up into her face with his honest blue
eyes, "I suppose that the real reason is that
I don't want to be!" We think the child
gave the real reason why all of us, big and
little, are not better than we are.


