ESSAY ON LITERATURE.

	Literature, as moderns understand the
term, comprises more especially all works,
of taste, sentiment, poetry, History and
eloquence; excluding abstract discussions,
mere-eruditions, positive sciences, mathe
matics &c.
	The field of literature, at the present day,
is a wide one; the multiplicity of books now
extant, afford facilities for the acquisition of
knowledge heretofore unequaled.
	In the past, there have been eras of re-
finement and art, which are plainly demon-
strated; but the press did not then, as now,
work for its perpetuity. In the so-consid-
ered barbaric ages, it is said the Egyptains
accumulated a very extensive library; the
burning of which is talked of even down,
to this day; and the ruthless Cailiff Omar
stigmatized as a vandal. Most bitterly has
it been regretted by all who desire to in-
form themselves concerning the customs,
education, morals, state &c., of society, as
they existed at the period. How much
might be known of that people by their
literature. Time was, not so long since,
when one newspaper was sufficient for the
demand in America; how different at this
present day. Numerous indeed have they
become, and though not always truthful, con-
sulted like an oracle by the masses of the
people.
	Societies for the gratuitious distribution
of the Bible and tracts of all kinds almost
thrust their books into the hands of the un-
willing and idle; true there is much that is
false and much that should be avoided if
possible, but truth will gain precedence;
much that is really bad, in contrast with the
good, makes its hideousness more manifest.
There is a vast amount of superficial read-
ing, most books contain chaff mixed with
the wheat, some even positive evil with
that which is good; but as my essay is not
upon reading discriminate or indiscriminate,
I will not intrude my ideas upon this subject,
or attempt to point out a selection for oth-
ers.
	"Books" says Dr. Channing "are the true
levelers, they give to all who right faithfully
use them, the society, the spiritual presence
of the best and greatest of our race.
	The whole world abounds in books, many
 of them by celebrated authors upon History,
music, poetry, oratory, and the drama; and
the cultivation of the intellect is at the
present time unparalleled. All this tends to
refinement of feeling and sentiment, more
especially music and poetry, the blending

[Column 2]
together of which is the most harmonious,
grand and sublime refinement possible of
atttainment, by mortals upon the earth. Elo-
quence charms also like music, and the pos-
sessor of it is truly mighty in power; to
seize upon the hearts of an audience, and
bind them for the time in willing captivity
in aid of belief or in spite of belief, with the
influence from within flowing outward with-
out consideration of one's self, above rude
criticism or apology, is more than enchant-
ment. Logic is necessary to carry power
and must form the strength of the dis-
course, but imagination may clothe it with
beauty, light up the eye, loosen the tongue,
and excite rapid and vehement declamation;
true eloquence embodies feelings as well as
facts.
	Poetry produces emotion—emotion elicits
thought. Shakepeare has been true to na-
ture in particularly portraying men at ease,
as well as in that far more difficult condi-
tion, men under the influence of the most
vehement passions; there are others who
stand prominently forward in the Dramatic
art; but none as yet have equaled the "Im-
mortal Shakespeare." We argue there is
much to be learned from the stage; it por-
trays human nature more vividly and forci-
bly than it is possible to make it, however
highly colored by books alone; consequently
it is a more effectual teacher, than any au-
thor unaided, can make himself. It opens
up a channel of thought, of feeling, and re-
finement of sentiment, entirely different
from solitary reading, even of the same ex-
pressions and sentiments. In times past, it
has been looked upon as a place for the en-
couragement of vice, and the engendering
of passions, but like all things else it re-
quires a high tone of cultivation, and there
is a bright prospect that the time is not far
distant when purity of sentiment, and the
strictest regard for morality, virtue and
chastity will prevail upon the stage; so
much has already been accomplished in
bringing about this wonderful change, in
the last few years, that none need despair
of its entire renovation.
	There is something singular in the fact,
that rarely indeed an author can give the
finest touches to the most exquisite senti-
ments of his own composition. He who can
most truly delineate character in acting,
can bring out all the most intricate and sub-
tle windings of the human mind as set
forth by the writer, is truly in his nature
and training artistic. How many most
beautifully written plays, are put upon the
stage only to be murdered by the actors.
How agonizing it must be to the author who
has expended time, money, energy, and
greater than all, thought, has studied hard
and earnestly to accomplish what his mind
had conceived, only to have some rough un-
cultivated and unappreciative mind cut up
and hack in pieces, what was in itself, so su-
premely grand and sublime.
	 There has been, at different times, a cer-
tain style, or class of literature which has
predominated in different countries and
among dissimilar classes of people, and
probably will be so until the end of time;
but wherever the highest tone of cultiva-
tion exists, the prevailing literature must
reach the same standard, and be accord-
ance with their fastidious tastes and senti-
ments.
	In the past, there have been some authors
of such power, who have spoke so convinc-
ingly to the hearts of the people that their
memory can never die, and whose works, it
is to be hoped, may never be out of date or
style, indeed they are forever immortalized;


and it seems doubtful whether any will ever
even in this highly cultivated and refined
age, attain such wonderful celebrity through
their powers of thought and expression;
people are too well off at the present day,
to cultivate the deepest powers of the mind
which the extremes of sorrow and poverty
call forth; they can never feel so deeply,
until they have suffered; there must be feel-
ings as well as facts; and to truly delineate
or portray feelings one must do so from ex-
perience. Who knows how to appreciate
truly and forcibly, unless they themselves
have passed through similar trials? Truly
strong human thinking upon any given sub-
ject or subjects, is necessary to stir the foun-
dation within us, and is capable of bring-
ing forth from the laboratory of the mind,
thoughts to sway a multitude of unthink-
ing. Alas that human beings capable of
thought should allow their natures to lie
dormant, and yet we see it every day.
	How many men and women have never
thought of studying themselves until they
were tried; sickness, death, ingratitude,
calumny, envy and slander will call forth
powers, thoughts and feelings that might
otherwise have slumbered on, unknown but
for this ordeal. Sorrow has its uses in mak-
ing us know ourselves; we must be put up-
on the rack, bound to the fiery wheel of an-
guish; ere we can understand the depths of 
our own intricate and wonderful nature. One
whose life has been all serene, cannot truly
commiserate others, or ingeniously sympa-
thize.
	As positive proof that sorrows, afflictions
and tribulations refine, cultivate and purify
the human heart, I would refer you to the
multitude whom John saw in his vision,
upon the Isle of Patmos, the hosts of the
redeemed, "who came up out of great tribu-
lation;" and also the example of the Sav-
ior "who suffered as never man suffered."
But perhaps you will say what has all this
to do with literature? I will answer you,
everything, for books, oratory, music &c.,
written and brought out under the influen-
ces of the most striking and forcible charac-
teristics, acting upon humanity, will have
a tendency to create a superior order of
minds and intellect and that is what the 
lovers of excellence in attainment, most
study and most desire, in an age of intel-
lectual advancement. To what extent the 
human mind is capable of cultivation has
never yet been decided; the most highly
gifted and intellectual persons are ready to
acknowlege there is an inexhaustible foun-
tain of knowledge yet unopened to them.
And in the future we can none of us dis-
cern what wonders may be unfolded to those
who having the advantages of the past ex-
periences of the great and wise; added to
their own indomitable energies and research,
shall cope with the light of intelligence to
understand the mysteries of the human
mind.
	Dec. 17th, 1874.    				 M.


