	GENERAL.
	Prof. Jenny, reporting of the resources of
the Black Hills, says the ground containing
gold covers an area of about 800 square
miles......There was a heavy shock of earth-
quake at Knoxville, Tenn., on the 12th Nov.
......The Seneca Fall works are going to
send a steamer to the Centennial; the whole
steamer will be nickel-plated......The mam-
moth hotel at St. Louis will be called the
Grand Hotel, situated at the corner of Grand
and Page avenues, and will occupy 24,000
more feet than the Palace Hotel in San Fran-
cisco......There are 143,000 steel pens, and
160,000 sheets of note paper, and two bar-
rels of ink used at Eastman College, Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., yearly—The Cashier of
the Western Union Telegraph Company, N.
Y., has confessed to misappropriating mon-
ey to the extent of $13,000 and lost in Wall
Street speculations......A remarkable book,
a fac-simile of an Egyptian medical treatise,
written in the 16th century B. C., has been
added to the Astor Library, N. Y., through
the liberality of Wm. B. Astor......An ori-
ginal picture by Rubens is now on exhibi-
tion at the Academy of Art at Rochester,
N. Y., and will be sent to the Metropolitan
Museum of Art in N. Y.—The one hun-
dred and sixteenth birthday of Schiller, the
poet, was celebrated by many German Soci-
eties in America and the Fatherland—A
new history of the United States, by George
Bancroft, is about to be published; it com-
prises the time from the Revolutionary
war down to the present day......The direct
cable has been laid successfully, after having
submerged in water fifteen months; the frac-
ture seems to have been caused by anchor or
grapnel. The U. S. Grand Jury at Chicago,
has indicted 60 persons for violation of the
whisky revenue laws......4,000 bottles of
wine were drank during the season at each
of the leading hotels in Saratoga.
	FOREIGN.
	Disastrous floods are reported to have ta-
ken place throughout England and Ireland
on the 14th and 15th of Nov., the river Fol-
ka near Dublin, burst its banks and sub-
merged thousands of acres......The Russian
government is engaged in a raid against so-
cial agitators, arrests have been affected in
several large cities, Moscow, St. Petersburg
and others......It is rumored the Spanish
Government have secret agents in New
York, taking recruits from among the for-

[Column 2]
eign population.....An Electrical Exhibition
is proposed to be held in Paris in 1877; at the
"Palais de l'Industrie, to illustrate the appli-
cation of electricity to arts, industry and
domestic economy......Terrible fights have
taken place at the polls in Peru, between
the adherents of Gen. Prado and Admiral
Montero......There is now in construction
near Dublin, Ireland, a mammoth telescope,
said to be the largest ever made; it is for
the new observatory at Vienna......A Brit-
tish expedition for the north-western coastof Africa, has sailed from England the last
month, to find a suitable harbor for a com-
mercial and missionary station......A paper
on the anteceedents of Wm. Penn, is being
prepared in England by William Blackmore,
founder of the Blackmore Museum at Salts-
bury, Eng. It is to be read in America dur-
ing the Centennial.
	PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Black, Byron's "Maid of Athens"
died recently at the age 76......Mr. Sothern
will fill a professional engagement in New
York, at a prominent theatre, commencing
next January......Miss Anna E. Dickenson
has a new lecture upon "Father Nathan,"
which she has written and will soon begin
to deliver......Lieutenant General Peterson
died recently, at Novogorod, Russia, aged
92 years, he was a veteran in the wars
against Napoleon......Miss Maggie Davis,
Daughter of Jefferson Davis, is shortly to
be married to Hoyes, cashier of the National
Bank, at Memphis Tenn.......W. E. Blodgett
Esq. a very wealthy and prominent citizen
of New York city died recently......Susan
B. Anthony had nine votes for Judge of the
Supreme Court, at the recent election in
Duchess County New York......An Ameri-
can girl won the gold medal at a recent ex-
amination at Brazil, Rio Janiero, recently......
Miss Nancy Valentine of Maryland, who is
one hundred years old, is a most remarkable
woman of her age; she never wore specta-
cles, and can thread a needle quickly, does
her own cooking spins yarn and knits stock-
ings for sale.


