WOMAN'S VOICE.

	As I sat musing on the subject of prayer
my thoughts were these; I wonder if the
Saviour's prayer had any reference to me
when He taught His disciples to pray, as
given by Matthew, sixth chapter, twelvth
verse: "Forgive us our debts as we forgive
our debtors;" it is continued in the four-
teenth and fifteenth verses. Again, can I
pray for our enemies thus: "Father, forgive
them for they know not what they do," as
given by St. Luke, twenty-third chapter
and thirty-fourth verse? And is it possible
that I can go and be reconciled to whom I
may have ought against? I wonder if I
can do by my neighbor as I wish her to do
by me, for that would lead me into the
UNITED ORDER. Especially I should love
my neighbor as myself. Here was a mo-
ment's pause. Then arises another reflec-
tion on the capacity of woman, and I ask
who am I? I wonder if man is the head of
the woman as Christ is the head of the
Church; and I wonder if Peter had any al-
lusion to us in this dispensation, as given
in his first Epistle, third chap., sixth verse,
showing forth the manner in which Sarah
acknowledged Abraham, and says: "Whose
daughters ye are as long as ye do well, &c;"
then teaches the husband how to treat the
wife that their prayers be not hindered. I
thought how I should love to be an heiress
of that ancient worthy, and if so I must do
as she did, and acknowledge Plural Mar-
riage and be submissive as she was. I ask
myself, do I, through omission, have need
of re-baptism and a newness of life? Am I
trying to the best of my ability to help to
rear and care for a little kingdom? and al-
though weak in the flesh, do I with forti-
tude endure trials, which are but a bubble
in comparison to eternal life? Finally, is
my course onward in the faith once delivered
to the saints?
	To reduce all its precepts to practice is
my desire truly.
							M. A. B.
	Oxford, Nov. 15th, 1875.


A teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved in
a quart of tepid water, is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere or alpaca.


