OBSERVATIONS.

	At the time of honest love-making is the
brightest, happpiest and best period in al-
most every man's life, very likely one rea-
son why GOOD Mormon men are the best
men in the world, is that in their lives,
there are so often recurrences of those inter-
esting occasions.
	Were I a man—which, indeed, I am
thankful I am not—I know, or think I
know some things I would not do, and some
things that I would do.
	To me it appears stingy or cowardly to
see a man enter a theatre or other place of
amusement and seat himself for an even-
ing's enjoyment without a companion. It
looks as though he was too selfish to spend a
dollar for some one elses enjoyment, or be-
ing single, too faint-hearted to ask a lady to
accompany him. Therefore, going to places
of amusement alone, is one thing I should
avoid.
	I would never seek fame as a politician.
For a man to allow his name to be published
as a candidate for office, is apparently, giv-
ing an invitation for every envious, jealous
person to say all the unkind and disagreea-
ble things about him that they can think of.
I should not like to be talked about as poli-
ticians of the day are.
	There are other things which I would
not be guilty of as a man. And among the
things I believe I would do, are the follow-
ing:
	I would convince myself that I could
work at some useful employment, and earn
means wherewith to support a family.
Then I would marry not one wife only, but
half a dozen or more of the dear, good girls


I know; provided they could see that I was
the right man for them.
	I would find time to speak pleasantly to
my wives and children, would encourage
them to improve in all good things instead
of making mere worldly drudges of them-
selves, and by my example, teach and help
them to be cheerful, grateful and happy.
	I would not expect nor want any member
of my family to stay home from meeting on
Sunday to provide for my comfort, but
would feel that all the rest should enjoy the
same privileges that I did.
	It should be the grand aim of my life to
be a medol husband, and father; and being
this, I should be all that God requires of
His servants I think.
