[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
In fact, 1608 is considered to be the birth date of American literature (text, pp. 1-2), for in that year Captain John Smith wrote a glowing account of the first permanent English settlement in America. Whether all the events he described happened in actuality or merely within his own fond imagination, we cannot know nor does it matter; if they didn't really happen, they should have, so richly do they detail what every boy secretly hopes might happen whenever he goes out hunting rabbits with a slingshot. In Smith's Journal, he recounts how "Captain Smith" stabilized the Jamestown venture in 1607, after which he explored New England for another group of London merch- LESSON DEPARTMENT ants, naming Plymouth and several other landmarks. 'Though he lived to be fifty-two, his glorious exploits were finished before he was forty. Here is Elizabethan prose alive with movement, excitement, spectaele, heroism: Early in a morning a great fire was made in a long house and a mat spread on the one side, as on the other; on the one they caused him [Smith] to sit, and all the guard went out, and presently came skipping in a great grim fellow, all painted over with coale, mingled with oyle; and many Snakes and Wesels skins stuffed with mosse, and all their tayles tied together, so as they met on the crowne of his head in a tassell; the skins hanging round about his head, backe and shoulders, and in a manner covered his face; with a hellish voyce, and a rattle in his hand. With most strange gestures and passions he began his invocation, and environed the fire with a circle of meale; which done, three more such like devils came rushing in which the like antique tricks, painted half blacke, halfe red: but all their eyes painted white, and some red stroakes like Mutchato's along their cheeks. Round about him those fiends daunced a pretty while, and then came in three more as ugly as the rest, with red eyes, and white stroakes over their blacke faces.... Till night, neither he nor they did eate or drinke; and they feasted merrily.... After this they brought him a bagge of gunpowder, which they carefully preserved till the next spring, to plant as they did their corne; because they would be acquainted with the nature of that seeds. At his entrance before the King, all the people gave a great shout. The Queene of Appamatuck was appointed to bring him water to wash his hands, and another brought him a bunch of feathers, in stead of a Towell, to dry them: having feasted him after their best barbarous manner they could, a long consultation was held; but the conclusion was, two great stones were brought before Powhatan: then as many as could layd hands on him, dragged him to them, and thereon laid his head, and being ready with their clubs, 477 to beate out his braines, Pocahontas, the Kings dearest daughter, when no entreaty could prevaile, got his heade in her armes, and laid her owne upon his to save him from death; whereat the Emperour was contented he should live. Captain Smith saw more in this lovely land than clear skies: for the ambitious, hard-working, religious young Englishman here lay the answer to his dreams, the key to a new way of life, a new attitude toward all existence. He speaks what was strongly felt in the hearts of so many: Who can desire more content, that hath small means; or but only his merit to advance his fortune, than to tread, and plant that ground he hath purchased by the hazard of his life? If he have but the taste of virtue and magnanimitie, what to such a minde can bee more pleasant, then planting and building a foundation for his Posteritie, gotte from the rude earth, by Gods blessings and his owne industrie, without prejudice to any? If he have any graine of faith or zeale in Religion, what can hee do less hurtful to any: or more agreeable to God, then to seeks to convert those poore Salvages to know Christ, and humanitie, whose labors with discretion will triple requite thy chartes and paines? What so truly sutes with honour and honesties, as the discovering things unknowne? Erecting Townes, peopling Countries, informing the ignorant, reforming things unjust, teaching virtue; and gaine to our Natiue mothercountrie a kingdom to attend her; find employment for those that are idle because they know not what to do: so farre from wronging any, as... To cause Posteritie: to remember thee; and remembering thee, ever honour that remembrance' with. Praise? The American Dream It becomes apparent that values: contained within today's American dream were present then, conveyed in words full with the poetry of 478 peaceful possession. But, lest one might point out that John Smith was of the wordly Virginia Colony, and therefore susceptible to such flights, we must end with a quotation from the writings of Samuel Sewall, one of the Stalwart Puritan fathers who are reputedly dour, glum, unemotional, utilitarian. For love of the land, and the peace which can come only from the sublime "'at-home" feeling, few passages surpass Sewall's simple yet moving description of his home country: And as long as Plum Island shall faithfully keep the commanded post, notwithstanding all the hectoring words and hard blows of the proud and boisterous ocean; as long as any salmon or sturgeon shall swim in the streams of Merrimac, or any perch or pickerel in Crane Pond; as long as the sea-fowl shall know the time of their coming, and not neglect seasonably to visit the places of their acquaintance; as long as any cattle shall be fed with the grass growing in the meadows which do humbly bow down themselves before Turkey Hill; as long as any sheep shall walk upon Old 'Town Hill, and shall from thence pleasantly look down the river Parker and the fruitful marshes lying beneath; as long as any free and harmless doves shall find
