[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
Work IT leeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 1—Homemaking Is the Administrative Side of Family Living Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, October 14, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of the vocation "housewife" and emphasize the many skills involved in the business of managing a home. 6o7'M just a housewife" was the identifying remark made by an attractive woman on a_ television show the other evening. After a few moments questioning, we learned she is the wife of an outstanding, successful business man, the mother of five healthy, happy children, does her own housework, is active in her church, has a position in the local P. T. A., serves on the library board, belongs to a social club, and is "room mother" for the second grade class at a school. Just a housewife, indeed! But our lady of the T. V. Program is typical of many women who seem to feel they must apologize for this important vocation. If any career woman in the world has a right to be proud of what she does, it is the housewife. As general manager in the home, she is the family administrator who keeps at her fingertips the many threads of family living. She is a wife to her husband, a mother to her children, a person in her own night, a contributing member of the community. She needs to be an expert at dovetailing her activities. She needs to be flexible in order to adjust to changing conditions. She must keep ever before her a clear picture of what is most important to her and her family. The home manager directs the family in analyzing and solving problems. 'The wise home manager does not feel she must carry the weight of the home entirely on her Shoulders. She invites family cooperation, encouraging the entire group to analyze everyday problems which arise and plan for their solution. In doing this, her role as general manager is most rewarding. She and her family have a strong feeling of belonging together that makes home a happier place to be than any other. The home manager's job involves planning. All homemakers who manage well plan and_ organize. Some women plan the week's work while they wash the breakfast dishes or iron a shirt. Others work out their plans on paper when they have a few minutes alone. Some plan under the dryer in the beauty parlor or while waiting for a bus. Planning does not necessarily require a great deal of separate time, but must be recognized as most important in the management process. The home manager is a worker, too. As an efficient manager-worker she makes the most of her time, effort, and ability. She is alert as to how other homemakers manage. She talks to them about their methPage 47] 472 ods which seem to bring good results. She enlists her husband's interest in getting him to provide extra shelves and hooks, if needed, to arrange her equipment for streamlining her work. She reads books and articles in magazines and newspapers for ideas about efficient ways to work. She examines her work habits to determine if they are good ones. If they are not, she works to change them. She makes a challenging game of her work, pitting her wits against time and motion. She works by the clock. She wastes no time nor energy on nonessentials. Thus she can devote her energies to activities that mean most to her family and herself. The homemaker who is judicious has developed a sense of balance about her work. She spends time and energy economically on routine tasks. She systematizes her work so that important things are not slighted because of the pressure of routines. The home manager guides younger members of the family. As a child becomes more independent and wants to help with household activities, the wise home manager takes the time to teach him and make meaningful tasks that are satisfying to him—cutting out cookies, picking up papers, picking up his own toys, dusting furniture, setting the table, and ever so many more. He may slow his mother down, but the wise mother realizes it is not so important to save time in this inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 stance, as it is for the child to learn to carry his own share of responsibility. She is patient and makes a game of his helping her, so they both have fun. She finds, as he grows older, she has to give less and less guidance. Working together and sharing activities at home will seem to him the natural way to get things done. His mother's guidance all through his growing-up years has been a chief factor in his reaching this point with ease. The home manager evaluates results. A good home manager ls continually weighing values. She does this in planning, in working, in guiding, and in teaching her children. She is constantly alert to the means that will bring most satisfying results to her family. She will frankly examine and evaluate her own success and failures—and she will learn from both. She will also encourage family members to do likewise. Her approach will be positive and constructive. She will try to see for herself and help others in the family to perceive the real strengths they have, and how they may use all their resources, human as well as material, to build for themselves the kind of life they really want. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are some of the management problems which confront a housewife? 2. Explain why planning is essential to the well-run home. 3. Why is it a good thing for the housewife to budget her time? 1. Literature— Meet the New World Lesson 1—The American Dream Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 1-4; 33-36) For Tuesday, October 21, 1958 Objective: To review the roles of adventure, financial gain, and religious freedom in bringing the first explorers and settlers to the shores of what now constitutes the United States. A wise Frenchwoman, Mme. Bertin, once truly observed that "the only newness is the rediscovery of that which is old." In any serious attempt to study the past, so bewilderingly vast is the material to be condensed, so pressing is the need to classify, to simplify, that we oversimplify. How temptingly easy it is to package our forefathers into neatly tied bundles labelled Whig, Zealot, Puritan, Roundhead, Conservative, or Tory. Let us remember that, as a human, man has not changed; he has shaped himself to different patterns so that historical classifications are in modern man reshuffled, but nonetheless present. In a warned effort, then, to understand more fully America's literature and the fathers who produced it, we must turn to the mirror of the past. Deeply ingrained in the nature of timeless man is his anticipation of an existence better than that which he presently knows. 'The ancient Greeks looked backward to their Golden Age. Plato (427-347 B. C.) wrote his Republic to blueprint his ideal mortal world, as did the English writer Sir 'Thomas More (1478-1535) in his Utopia. Throughout recorded history men have anticipated man's ideal fulfillment in after-life. The American Dream From the pre-Columbian century to the present hour, a few visionary men from each generation have devoted their youth and maturity to pursuing the American Dream. America as dream or as hope has never been truly seen in its fulness; the gap between the real America and the ideal America has ever been wide. Hosts of people have never known, or have forgotten, that there are two Americas — the tangible, immediate America and the filmy, intangible dream. For those who, at almost any price, have hungered for glimpses of the true America, it has never been merely thing or place, but always idea or dream: 'To wipe the slate clean and start over; to capitalize on the isolation of the wilderness far removed from Europe's hereditary patterns by establishing, in peace, one's own dream of the ideal community; to take land which could be had for the asking and shape it to a pattern of communal harmony and productivity — these dreams have Page 4/73 474 been tried or achieved. Major hungers have driven wave upon wave of western Europeans to explore and colonize the "New Found Land." It is to a consideration of these basic hungers that we now turn. Hunger for Adventure: Put bluntly, some men are not "homebodies." While the Viking, or Anglo-Saxon spirit has always been one to roam, as seen in Eric the Red and his son, Leif Ericson (ca. 1000 A. D.), Marco Polo (1254- 1324) was the first great wanderer of the Renaissance period, and the first European to traverse Asia. How great is our debt to him for liberating the imaginations of men with his exotic tales of the Court of Kubla Khan and the Great Khan, where a _ thousand cartloads of silk came into the city each day; palaces with walls and ceilings of gold; Japan (or Cipango) a large island rich in "rose-tinted pearls" and precious stones; pearls and diamonds, spices, indigo of India; small islands in the eastern sea which produced "valuable and odorous woods, and gold and gems, and all manner of spices — pepper as white as snow'; Zanzibar and Madagascar's ivory and gold. In one sense the Renaissance began with Marco Polo. Columbus acknowledged reading him thoroughly; his book inflamed Southern Europe. His first dazzling report set in motion currents in Italy, Spain, and Portugal which soon resulted in men circling the globe. The lure of vistas and cultures never before seen by white men is one of the magnificent glories of the past, one not forgotten by later generations. Joel Barlow (1754-1812) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 one of the Connecticut Wits, considered his greatest work to be his epic, The Vision of Columbus, later reworked into the Columbiad. Undoubtedly, many Europeans who braved the uncharted ocean and the wilderness of the New World were motivated by this hunger for ad- I venture. Hunger for Land and Wealth: Immediately upon returning from his first voyage, Columbus published his Epistola. So hungry was Southern Europe for firsthand details of this unbelievable miracle world, that the book ran through seventeen editions. Soon Cabot, Hawkins, Drake, Raleigh, and Sir Humphrey Gilbert (who was the father of English colonization ), were challenged to emulate the host of Portuguese and Spanish explorers, some of whom sailed and traded and claimed lands a full century before. Among others, were Prince Henry the Navigator (1394-1460), Americus Vespucius, Magellan, Balboa, Cortez, Pizarro, Coronado, and De Soto. Nor should we forget that Portugal was the pioneer worldexplorer; that the Genoese Columbus sailed for Isabella of Castile; that the Spanish Council of the Indies, through which New World colonization was governed, was organized in 1524 (almost one hundred years before the Pilgrims came); that in 1536 Don Antonio de Mondoza was Viceroy of New Spain at Mexico City; that, when in 1588, Thomas Hariot wrote the first English promotional book in defense of England's first colony, the illfated Roanoke, North Carolina, expedition, it appeared forty-six years after the first American book, LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion, which appeared in 1542 to detail his walking tours across the present states of 'Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. Furthermore, when eight years before the defeat of the Spanish Armada, in 1588, Queen Elizabeth defied established, all - powerful Spain by granting to Sir Francis Drake "the most important knighthood ever conferred by an English sovereign' for looting unprotected wealth from the ports of the fabulous Spanish Main, he was rewarded for harrying, not for establishing. The above facts prove the puniness of England's efforts in the New World before the balance of power shifted abruptly with the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588. Previously, she had nibbled at the fringe of Spain's two _ overseas empires. Now, with the victory, England was free to counteract New Spain's ominous growth by estab- 475 lishing colonies in Barbados and the Bahamas, southern ports from which tich Spanish galleons could be captured most effectively. We should not forget that in England's northern, hence less valuable colonies, the constant hatred for Spanish Catholicism unified all seventeenthcentury Protestant factions—Quaker, Methodist, Anglican, Puritan. Nor was the dreaded threat of Spanish invasion entirely confined to Old England. Following Elizabeth's death in 1603, King James I was vitally interested in establishing English colonies, but haggling Parliament controlled the purse, thus forcing English colonization to be financed by wealthy, private individuals who had sufficient status to gain a royal charter. This charter granted them exemption from certain commercial laws, and the right to colonize and exploit stipulated areas in the name of the Crown. Established by Queen Elizabeth three years before her death, The East India Company soon became wealthy, and other groups followed its example by obtaining similar charters in America. Basically a trading nation, England's monarchs were pleased, since by establishing colonies, outlets for her goods, on which she had a monopoly, were created. Save for the Pilgrims, all the groups establishing colonies in America were wealthy men — either aristocrats or wealthy merchants— who hoped to increase their own wealth by inducing the lower classes to do the colonizing, under the same social and political pattern they took for granted at home. Some colonies were peopled by indentured servants, who worked for a number of 476 years to pay for their land and passage; in others, land was sold for cash. Then, as now, the amount of land granted

various companies was staggering, for example, the charter granted to a group of Plymouth, England, promoters, in 1607 which gave them 10,000 square miles of land. At the same time, a London eroup formed the Virginia Company which settled Jamestown. 'Iwo years later its charter was enlarged to contain a strip four hundred miles wide, extending "west and northwest" to the Pacific Ocean. In 1663, Charles IT granted to a group of eight men the domain of Carolina, extending from sea to sea between the thirty-sixth and thirtyfirst parallels, while, in 1681, William Penn received the largest grant ever given to one individual. Thus it becomes amply evident that aristocratic patterns were to be perpetuated in the New World. But what about the future of the rising middle-class? When William Penn observed that "colonies are the seeds of nations," did he have in mind the welfare of the many as well? Would they fit in harmoniously with plans furthered by king and charter-holder? Yes, essentially, because they, too, were loyal Englishmen, and no other alternative existed. Individually they were attracted by the abundant natural wealth of forest, tillage, and stream, And there the sun shone as they had never seen it before. As Penn writes: "The air is sweet and clear, the heavens serene, like the south parts of France." John Smith: "Heaven and earth never agreed better to frame a place for man's habitation." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 Hunger for Religious Freedom: While the settlers of Jamestown, Virginia (1607) were chiefly motivated by the quest for adventure or personal gain, we must not forget another great hunger, motivating and basic. 'This was the hunger for religious freedom. In contrast to the Virginia colonist who was concerned with the glories of this world, the Pilgrim of Plymouth Bay was seeking a haven where he might worship according to the dictates of his own conscience. (See text, page 4.) 'The beliefs and growth of this courageous little colony of 1620 will be discussed in detail in the following lesson. Captain John Smith Few American writers have rivaled the first one—Captain John Smith—for the vitality and gusto of the words with which he created a lasting place for his adventures in the American imagination.