[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Recipes | Author: Larson]
See also "Recipes From the Western Canadian Mission," by Annie Ruth Larson, page 442. "Not to the Swift" CHAPTER 1 Deone R. Sutherland HICAGO roared past the C windows of the "elevated" train. Bleak, dark buildings, differing from their neighbors only in slight variations of size, some taller, some thinner, but all dirty, were the only "view." Julie and her mother had often talked of moving to a cleaner suburb, but, after all, her mother worked down in the Loop, and it was more difficult for her mother to get to work than for Julie to commute to school. 'The elevated had merged with the subway now, and the lights of the long tunnel shot past the window in bright blurs. Julie decided she would have to quit dreaming, or she'd pass her station and have to walk back. She gave a shiver of pleasure as she could hear "Musetta's Waltz" from La Boheme singing in her mind. She became so tired of singing for Madame Heinrich again and again the same thing over. It was her stop! Julie barely had time to duck through the door before the train was clanging away again underneath the city. The trains never lost a moment loading or unloading the vast number of people who traveled to and fro beneath the great city. Julie checked her books and music and wallet. Yes, everything was there. 'The people were pushing past her. She moved with the crowd, up the stairs, into the city. "Valse di Musetta" by Puccini— her favorite melody from the whole opera, she whispered to herself. Were there really to be no more Page 428 afternoons in Madame Heinrich's dreary flat practicing and practicing? After a year spent in private study, she was in school now. She was really registered in a big musical school in a great university with young people who had the same love of music. She felt a moment's sadness, for Madame Heinrich had been good to her. She had been fond of Julie, and had treated her almost like a daughter. She had showed her through her thick album of her own concert days when she appeared at the Stattssoper in Vienna and the Deutsche Stattssoper in Berlin. 'The trunk, with the faded relics and bits of finery, fans and laces from costumes, were as familiar to Julie as the small threeroom apartment that she and her mother shared. Her mother would not yet be home from work. 'There was no use in ringing. Julie unlocked the outside door, closed it carefully behind her, and walked up the three flights to their apartment. Why did so many of these old apartment houses always have the same dark red carpeting for the halls and stairs? She vaguely remembered a different kind of life in childhood, but try as she might, those memories had become very dim. She stopped at the door and took out her key. How lonely the apartment house was. Even as a child she had found few friends. That was the advantage of living here, her mother had told her. "It will be quiet for your practicing, no distractions. Of course, "NOT TO THE SWIFT" you can't practice after ten, but that's to be expected in an apartment." The farm that she remembered from her babyhood had been quiet, too. But she had never been lonely out West. Perhaps because her father had been alive, life had not been lonely then. Even the distant mountains had seemed friendly, and the wide fields, also, she somehow remembered. She had viewed them often from the top of her father's shoulders. He had seemed as tall as a mountain, but she had always felt safe on her lofty perch. When her father had died, those days ended. Her mother hadn't wanted to stay out West. Her daughter, her mother said, was going to take up the career she had never had, but had wanted. (PLle opened the windows against the mustiness of the apartment. Her mother had such ambitions for her. Perhaps she didn't have as much talent as her mother thought. She shivered and looked back at the music she had tossed on the couch that served as a couch in the daytime and a bed for Julie in the evening. 'The music reassured her. The melody sang again in her mind. She would play it through just once. The piano was the only possession of real value the Markhams owned. The beautiful Steinway dwarfed the entire apartment. Julie approached the piano with love. She was aware of the sacrifices a widow with a small child had made to afford a piano like this. She would just go through the song once; she wouldn't even sing. Well, maybe she would just sing it through once softly. Why should she feel such longing at this melody? If she were a real musician 429 she would prefer possibly.... She leaned her head against the music and looked out the window. It must be the fall weather that made her feel so emotional, the leaves turning orange and brown, the sharp coolness in the air in the early morning. 'The campus was another world away from the rumble of the center of the city. She would be spending all her days in that world of trees and rolling lawns and music. That must account for the longing she was feeling. The buzzer sounded, and she jumped to her feet with a start. Ouickly she pushed the button to unlock the front door and let her mother in.