[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Moss]
[The Long View Sara O. Moss]

long past, and fold Their memories about the present hours, As we would weave a garland of rare flowers. Their remembrance makes time now to seem Like bright effulgence of an after-gleam That at the day's end graces mountain height To bring the soul more near to heavenly light, And thoughts of him whose brilliance is supreme— Who gives us patience to await his will and dream Of time that was and of life yet to be. She Olympian Rain Sorest Dorothy J. Roberts EEP in the wilderness of the Olympian Peninsula in the State of Washington, we found the Rain Forest on the Hoh River. Here truly was Longfellow's "forest primeval," where The murmuring pines and the hemlocks Bearded with moss, and in garments green, indistinct in the twilight, Stand like Druids of eld. One road to the Rain Forest winds around the south and west sides of the Olympian Peninsula — United States Highway 101. This road can be reached from Portland, Oregon, by way of the scenic Columbia River route to Astoria and the sea, where there are delightful beaches, thence by ferry across the outlet of the Columbia River, and by highway again to Hoquiam and Aberdeen, then up the coast and inland again. The fifty miles of ocean strip is one of the most primitive remaining in the country, majestic and serene, and filled with rare wild life. Watch for the sign on the east side of the road which reads "Rain Forest." 'Take the nineteenmile, good graveled road, along the Hoh River, to the ranger station, where the Rain Forest one-mile Nature I'rail begins and ends. Plan to reach this trail before noon, or as near as possible to the middle of the day, in order to view the forest depths in the most revealing light, and have time enough to complete the trip without haste. When you return from the Rain Forest Trail to Highway 101, you can go back as you came, or go on around the peninsula of the Olympic National Park, a loop of about two hundred miles or more, with Port Angeles, on the Strait of Juan de Fuca, at the top. This port has a ferry to famous Victoria in Canada. Another scenic approach road follows United States Highway 410 from Lewiston, Idaho, to Walla Walla, Washington, through Pasco, Richland, and Yakima to Mount Rainier and on to Puyallup and Olympia and the excellent highway that follows the east border of the Olympic National Park along the Hood Canal. The Olympic National Forest is open the year around, but August and September are perhaps the most desirable months to visit this preserve where the virgin rain forests of the Northwest Coast are protected and preserved for generations of those who have and will love the wilderness of woods. On the way to the forest we enjoyed miles of evergreens, including many lacy red cedars. Sometimes we followed the sea, where the setting sun haloed the waves' fine spume with gold. We passed through little towns and ate their fresh wild huckleberry pie, so rare and so delicious. FoROM the ranger station in the Hoh River Rain Forest, on a clear bright morning in September, we walked a mile-long loop-trail through the most luxuriant forest in any temperate climate. Rain forests are usually found only in the rainy portions of the tropics. But the 130 to 150 inches of rainfall here, is more than in most tropical forests. The rain and the mild climate have formed for us this heartstirring wonder. Page 433 434 The forest appears ever luminous even in the rain, because of the light reflected from the pale green mosses and other green plants spread under Sooty 5 eae cerS,: IO TONG SEE Courtesy Olympic National Park VIEW IN THE OLYMPIAN RAIN FOREST RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 the towering trees. But watch your light meter in photographing; the light is deceiving. We had to lean far back to see the soaring heights THE OLYMPIAN RAIN FOREST of the venerable Sitka spruce, the western hemlock, and the giant Douglas fir, the largest tree in the western hemisphere except for the Sequoia. All were hung with long, soft, waving mosses, centuries old. The ages lie revealed here where life is continuous. We saw made manifest the unbroken chain of existence. A giant tree falls, and in its rotting log, a family of seedlings spring up in a row. Only on this ancestor can they survive against the dense ground plants and erow into monarchs themselves. They, in turn, after their allotted centuries of life, fall, to provide sustenance and life for the next generation. The seedlings are mainly Sitka spruce and western hemlock, which are native to the rain forest. A nurse log will sustain both kinds of seedlings on a single log. When the nurse log is finally consumed and rotted away, the new trees straddle its resting place in a long row. The largest Sitka spruce here is 300 feet high, with a circumference of twenty-five and an eighth feet, and is 800 years old. The Douglas firs, though some of the most tremendous trees, are only minority members of the Rain Forest, for only a few of them can reproduce in the dense shade. This is more than a forest of trees. It is a whole community of trees, shrubs, plants, ferns, mosses, lichens, fungi, and microscopic organisms; animals, big and small, all living and dying in a fine balance of relationship with their environment. Creatures from insects to elk make the forest their home. We saw a squirrel and later three black bears padding down the road. Birds, if 435 they cannot always be seen, can be heard — wrens, thrushes, woodpeckers, robins, jays, chickadees, hawks, and even eagles. N the carpet of mosses and liverworts about 100 species have been found—some so rare they are known only to scientists. Most of the mosses could thrive only under the high, torn umbrella of the forest. Above this green carpet, among other plants, the graceful vine maples, draped with curtains of moss, beautify the forest. A lighter area of the forest, where the sun can sift through, is the "Hall of Mosses," a grove of bigleaf maple, draped with flowing beards of moss. There are eighteen species of mosses alone. Ferns grow on the slopes, on the trunks of the trees, and even in their lofty crowns, 250 feet above the earth. The fungus seen on the dead tree stumps, is only the fruiting part of the fungus. The greater part of it spreads inside the stump in filaments feeding on the wood. Though there are many kinds of fungi — mushrooms, moulds, mildews, and bacteria, these are mainly saprophytes here. 'They live on the dead plants and, by devouring them, teturn them to the soil. Without this process the forest would be crowded with dead trees. Death and decay are as natural as life and growth. The Olympian Peninsula is one of the few wildernesses left in the United States, and the Rain Forest on the Hoh River is one of its many attractions. Farther inland are other primitive areas of plant and animal life which we hope to visit on another trip. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NaTIONS'" VISIT TO SAN LUIS STAKE: We held meetings in Morgan and Richfield and Eastdale, the last twenty-five miles away across the Rio Grande River over which has been built a stupendous iron bridge. The drive to Eastdale was most interesting and there were novelties to be seen in Spanish and Mexican houses.... Eastdale is beautifully situated and at present prosperous under the direction of Bishop Jenson who seems to possess the elements of character necessary for colonizing. We enjoyed this place very much, held two meetings.... We left early in the morning and drove near to a rugged mountain on the borders of New Mexico, en route we saw several wolves who seemed very bold and fleet of foot.... We reached Manassa as we supposed in time for an afternoon meeting, but were surprised to find a banquet had been prepared instead in the new hall just purchased by the sisters there for the use of the Relief Society. —Emmeline B. Wells THE MOTHERS' CONGRESS: The Mothers' Congress which was held in the Assembly Hall in this city commencing June 30, and closing July 2, was a complete success, and being the first of its kind in the West, demonstrated the fact that Western women are alive to the best interests