[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 22 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
432 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1958 
She  transferred  to  the  bus.  How 
much  nicer  it  was  out  of  the  city. 
The  ride  out  on  the  elevated  hadn't 
been  too  bad,  and  her  singing  had 
been  excellent  this  morning,  she  had 
been  told.  She  thought  how  much 
prettier  this  chapel  was  than  that 
little  hall  they  had  met  in  when  she 
had  first  gone  to  Sunday  School  as 
a  child.  Now  that  she  was  almost 
there,  Julie  suddenly  felt  shy.  Her 
mother  would  have  marched  right 
in,  but  Julie  hesitated  under  the 
trees  and  stirred  the  leaves  with  her 
foot.  They  were  singing,  so  she 
was  a  little  late  for  all  her  hurrying. 
Maybe  she'd  better  just  go  home; 
it  wasn't  fair  to  leave  her  mother 
alone,  anyway.  Then  she  began  to 
hear  the  words  of  the  song.  Why, 
it  was  about  the  mountaintops.  It 
was  one  of  her  favorite  hymns. 
''I  hope  you're  coming  in  here  to 
church?"  Julie  looked  in  surprise 
and  recognition.  It  was  Mr.  Carl- 
son from  the  music  school.  She  had 
been  assigned  to  one  of  his  sections 
for  special  voice  lessons.  He  was 
studying  for  his  Ph.D.  and  teaching 
on  a  fellowship.  Surely,  he  couldn't 
belong  to  the  Church,  too.  He  had 
begun  to  smile  at  her  surprise  and 
confusion. 
''I  belong  here,  sort  of.  .  .  ."  Julie 
stammered. 
''I  wondered  where  our  prize  pupil 
really  came  from.  I  should  have 
known  with  a  voice  like  yours, 
you'd  be  from  out  home.  .  .  ."  He 
was  drawing  her  up  the  steps. 
''But  I  really  am  almost  a  strang- 
er. ...  I  mean  I've  missed  so  many 
times."  Julie's  face  flushed  again. 
She  didn't  want  to  have  him  ac- 
cepting her  under  false  pretenses. 
He  stopped  and  smiled  at  her. 
''All  right  then,"  he  said,  "we  can 
begin  as  strangers  here  together, 
that  is  if  anyone  can  feel  like  a 
stranger  anywhere  in  our  Church. 
You  know,  this  is  my  first  quarter 
back  here,  too,  so  we  can  get  ac- 
quainted with  everyone  together. 
Agreed?" 
There  was  no  time  to  answer,  be- 
cause the  door  was  being  held  open, 
and  Mr.  Carlson  guided  her  into  a 
bench  and  sat  beside  her.  The  organ 
was  playing  again,  and  Mr.  Carlson 
was  offering  to  share  the  book.  She 
took  hold  of  the  edge,  and  as  the 
type  settled  into  words  and  bars  of 
music,  she  began  to  sing  with  all 
the  others,  "Oh,  ye  mountains 
high.  .  .  ." 
{To  be  continued) 
vi/ith    vly eight  of   ijears 
Grace  Ingles  Fwst 
We,  who  bear  the  weight  of  many  years, 
Know  not,  for  us,  what  each  new  day  may  hold. 
But  we  remember  joys  long  past,  and  fold 
Their  memories  about  the  present  hours, 
As  we  would  weave  a  garland  of  rare  flowers. 
Their  remembrance  makes  time  now  to  seem 
Like  bright  effulgence  of  an  after-gleam 
That  at  the  day's  end  graces  mountain  height 
To  bring  the  soul  more  near  to  heavenly  light, 
And  thoughts  of  him  whose  brilliance  is  supreme — 
Who  gives  us  patience  to  await  his  will  and  dream 
Of  time  that  was  and  of  life  yet  to  be.

cJhe   y:yliiinpian  uiain   QJorest 
Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
DEEP  in  the  wilderness  of  the  miles  or  more,  with  Port  Angeles,  on 
Olympian    Peninsula   in   the  the  Strait  of  Juan  de  Fuca,  at  the 
State    of    Washington,    we  top.    This  port  has  a  ferry  to  famous 
found  the  Rain  Forest  on  the  Hoh  Vietoria  in  Canada. 
River.    Here  truly  was  Longfellow's  Another  scenic  approach  road  fol- 
''forest  primeval,"  where  lows    United    States    Highway   410 
from    Lewiston,    Idaho,    to    Walla 
The  miirmuring  pines  and  the  hemlocks  Walla,  Washington,  through  Pasco, 
Bearded  with  moss,  and  in  garments  green,  -n  •  i  i^    j           i    v  i  •           4.       a  r         *. 
.    T  ..    .  .    .1     .    T  1 ,.  Kichland,    and    Yakmia    to    Mount 
indistinct  in  the  twihght,  t»    •    •               i                     n        n 
Stand  Hke  Druids  of  eld    Ramier    and    on    to    Puyallup    and 
Olympia  and  the  excellent  highway 
One    road    to    the    Rain    Forest  that  follows  the  east  border  of  the 
winds  around  the  south  and  west  Olympic   National   Park  along  the 
sides  of  the  Olympian  Peninsula  —  Hood  Canal. 
United  States  Highway  101.  This  The  Olympic  National  Forest  is 
road  can  be  reached  from  Portland,  open  the  year  around,  but  August 
Oregon,  by  way  of  the  scenic  Co-  and  September  are  perhaps  the  most 
lumbia  River  route  to  Astoria  and  desirable  months  to  visit  this  pre- 
the  sea,  where  there  are  delightful  serve  where  the  virgin  rain  forests 
beaches,  thence  by  ferry  across  the  of  the  Northwest  Coast  are  protect- 
outlet  of  the  Columbia  River,  and  ed  and  preserved  for  generations  of 
by  highway  again  to  Hoquiam  and  those  who  have  and  will  love  the 
Aberdeen,  then  up  the  coast  and  wilderness  of  woods, 
inland  again.  The  fifty  miles  of  On  the  way  to  the  forest  we  en- 
ocean  strip  is  one  of  the  most  primi-  joyed  miles  of  evergreens,  including 
tive  remaining  in  the  country,  ma-  many  lacy  red  cedars.  Sometimes  we 
jestic  and  serene,  and  filled  with  rare  followed  the  sea,  where  the  setting 
wild  life.  Watch  for  the  sign  on  sun  haloed  the  waves'  fine  spume 
the  east  side  of  the  road  which  reads  with  gold.  We  passed  through  little 
''Rain  Forest."  Take  the  nineteen-  towns  and  ate  their  fresh  wild  huck- 
mile,  good  graveled  road,  along  the  leberry  pie,  so  rare  and  so  delicious. 
Hoh  River,  to  the  ranger   station, 
where  the  Rain  Forest  one-mile  l^ROM  the  ranger  station  in  the 
Nature  Trail  begins  and  ends.  Plan  Hoh  River  Rain  Forest,  on  a 
to  reach  this  trail  before  noon,  or  as  clear  bright  morning  in  September, 
near  as  possible  to  the  middle  of  we  walked  a  mile-long  loop-trail 
the  day,  in  order  to  view  the  forest  through  the  most  luxuriant  forest 
depths  in  the  most  revealing  light,  in  any  temperate  climate.  Rain  for- 
and  have  time  enough  to  complete  ests  are  usually  found  only  in  the 
the  trip  without  haste.  When  you  rainy  portions  of  the  tropics.  But 
return  from  the  Rain  Forest  Trail  the  130  to  150  inches  of  rainfall 
to  Highway  101,  you  can  go  back  as  here,  is  more  than  in  most  tropical 
you  came,  or  go  on  around  the  pen-  forests.  The  rain  and  the  mild  eli- 
insula  of  the  Olympic  National  mate  have  formed  for  us  this  heart- 
Park,  a  loop  of  about  two  hundred  stirring  w^onder. 
Page  433