[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
L^iara  Scoviile    Vi/are   (^rochets  ioxquisite    'Jjesigns 
CLARA  Scoville  Ware,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  specializes  in  making  doilies  and  other 
crocheted  articles  in  equisite  and  unusual  designs.  She  is  an  expert  with  the 
crochet  hook  and  does  her  work  rapidly  and  well,  with  even  stitches  and  a  smooth 
blending  of  the  patterns.  She  has  given  away  to  relatives  and  friends  hundreds  of 
pieces  of  crocheting,  and  she  always  has  many  lovely  gifts  on  hand  for  birthdays  and 
Christmas.  She  also  makes  various  kinds  of  rugs  which  adorn  her  own  home  and  the 
homes  of  her  friends  and  neighbors. 
Mrs.  Ware  was  born  in  1874  ^"  ^^-  Pleasant  and  was  married  in  1891  to  Samuel 
Ware  in  the  Manti  Temple.  She  is  the  mother  of  seven  children  of  her  ov^n,  and  a 
granddaughter  whom  she  reared.  She  has  twenty-four  grandchildren  and  forty-two 
great-grandchildren.  Her  devoted  service  to  Relief  Society  has  extended  over  many 
years.  She  was  a  visiting  teacher  for  forty  years,  and  has  been  a  subscriber  to  The 
Reliei  Society  Magazine  for  forty  years.  Mrs.  Ware  is  a  widow  and  lives  alone.  She 
takes  care  of  herself  and  does  her  own  housework  from  a  wheel  chair  to  which  she 
has  been  confined  for  the  last  five  years. 
r  ^^  tt* 
& rratum 
Canadian  Mission  Magazine  Honor  Roll  Percentages  for  1957 
Attention  is  called  to  the  correct  figures  for  this  report: 
Relief  Society 
Canadian  Mission 
Page  454 
Enroll-     Subscriptions 
ment      No.         Pet. 
578  560         97 
Magazine 
Representative 
Leah  H.  Lewis

Elizabeth's  Children 
Olive  W.Buit 
Chapter  7 
Synopsis:  Carol  Wilson,  an  artist  on  the  Elizabeth's  children  were  en- 
staff  of  a  magazine  edited  by  Brent  Gibson  chanted  with  Brent.  They  swarmed 
went  to  Wyomnig  to  attend  the  funeral  .  •  ^  .  rcmemherod  how 
of  her  sister  Elizabeth.  She  felt  a  deep  f^^^  ^]^-  ^^^^\  remeniDerea  now 
sympathy  for  the  motherless  ehildren  and  he  had  been  With  her  other  nieces 
deeided  to  go  baek  to  them,  however,  she  and  nephews  last  Christmas,  and, 
found  them  well  cared  for.  Fred,  Carol's  as  then,  her  heart  was  warmed  by 
brother-in-law  had  become  interested  m  ^j^^  ^^^^^  eomplete  understanding 
a  neighbor,  Dolly  Graham,  and  Dolly  s  ^  .  i  i  -i  i  •  i  n-.  ^ 
brother  Tony  declared  his  love  for  Carol.  ^f  the  child  mmd.  1  ony  was  won- 
Brcnt  Gibson  telephoned,  asking  Carol  to  dcrful  with  them,  tOO,  but  With 
return  to  the  city  to  make  the  illustrations  Brent  there  was  an  intangible  some- 
for  a  serial  story.'  After  the  work  was  com-  thing  that  was  different.  It  was 
pleted  Carol  went  back  to  Wyoming  for  ^|^^^^^  ^^  -^  ^^^  children  felt  an  in- 
a  vacation,  lony  took  her  on  many  ex-  .  .,  ,  ^  ,  . 
cursions,  and  their  regard  for  each  other  ^^iSible  arm  around  them,  protecting 
deepened.  Finally,  Brent  Gibson  went  to  them,  while  they  romped, 
the  Wyoming  ranch  to  see  Carol.  He  ought  to  have  children  of  his 
own,  Carol  thought,  watching  the 
WHEN  Tony  dropped  in  at  group  one  afternoon.     If  he'd  only 
Fred's  next  day  and  found  forget  that  first  love  of  his,  he  could 
Brent  Gibson  on  the  porch  find  someone  who  would  appreciate 
with  Carol,  he  looked  accusingly  at  him.    He  didn't  look  or  act  like  the 
the  girl.  type  of  man  who  would  devote  his 
"So  this  is  why  you  wouldn't  go  life   to   nursing  a   dream,   but   you 
on  a  picnic  with  me  yesterday!"  he  never    could    tell   with    that    silent 
complained.  kind. 
Carol,  unaccountably  gay,  laughed.  Carol  let  her  thoughts  wander  to 
"Don't  be  silly,  Tony!  I  had  no  idea  the  kind  of  woman  Brent  Gibson 
Brent  was  coming  up  here."  might  choose,  if  he  ever  did  choose 
"But  you're  glad!     Mighty  glad!"  a  wife.     But  she  drew  back  from 
"Of  course  I'm  glad.    Brent's  my  actually  visuahzing  her.    There's  no 
boss,  and  I  had  suggested  that  he  one  good  enough,  she  told  herself 
come   here   for   his   vacation.      It's  angrily.     Then    she    shook    herself 
always  reassuring  to  have  your  boss  mentally. 
act  upon  your  suggestions!"  Of  course  you're  fond  of  Brent 
"I  wish  he'd  gone  some  place  —he's  been  mighty  good  to  you, 
else!"  Tony  grumbled.  kind  and  understanding— a  wonder- 
Brent  was  staying  at  a  nearby  ful  boss.  And  you  ought  to  be  gen- 
dude  ranch,  but  Fred  and  Dolly  erous  enough  to  want  his  happiness, 
welcomed  him  to  the  happy  family  she  told  herself,  being  stern  and 
circle  so  cordially  that  he  spent  most  honest.  Then,  oh,  I  do!  I  do  want 
of  his  time  at  the  ranch  house.  He  his  happiness!  But,  oh.  Brent,  why 
was  included,  of  course,  in  all  their  did  you  have  to  let  me  know  that 
picnics  and  excursions.  you  were  not  really  happy?     If  we 
Page  455

456  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1958 
could  only  be  as  we  were  a  year  Becky  and  I  had  better  climb  in 
ago— before  Elizabeth's  death.  Then  with  you  two.     What  say,  Becky, 
we  were  calm  and  happy  and  busy  my  girl?" 
with  our  work,  untroubled  by  Becky  danced  up  and  down,  en- 
thoughts  of  homes  and  motherless  tranced  with  the  idea.  It  was 
children  and  long  lost  loves!  rather  a  new  experience  for  the 
It  was  only  when  Carol  was  alone  quiet  little  girl  to  be  singled  out, 
that  her  thoughts  churned  like  this,  and  Brent's  attention  had  made  her 
When  she  was  riding  the  hills  be-  blossom  like  a  bright  little  flower, 
tween  Brent  and  Tony,  when  she  Tony  was  not  to  be  circumvented 
was  frying  flapjacks  over  a  campfire  so  easily.  'That  will  make  us  even 
for  their  activated  appetites,  when  more  crowded  than  the  station  wag- 
they  were  clambering  up  steep  on,"  he  objected.  ''Maybe  you  two 
slopes  or  exploring  dark  caves,  Carol  better  go  with  the  family." 
was  untroubled  and  happy.  She  "Oh,  we  don't  mind!"  Brent  was 
felt  gay  and  competent,  and  a  little  perfectly  composed.  "Becky  can 
excited  by  the  thought  that  two  sit  on  my  lap  —  or,  if  it  will  be  more 
men  were  dancing  attendance  upon  comfortable  for  you,  Tony,  she  can 
her.  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  sit  between  us  and  I'll  hold  Carol." 
been  in  a  position  to  be  a  coquette,  "No,  you  don't!"  Tony  glared  at 
probably  because  she  had  been  too  the  suggestion, 
busy,  first  with  family  responsibili-  Oh!  Oh!  Carol  thought,  now 
ties  and  then  with  her  job.  It  was  they're  coming  out  into  the  open, 
a  pleasing,  exhilarating  situation,  Tony  fighting  for  a  wife— Brent  de- 
and  Carol  permitted  herself  to  en-  termined  to  rescue  his  artist.  Well, 
joy  it  to  the  full.  And  all  the  time,  I  don't  know  that  I  want  to  be 
she  was  conscious  of  Fred  and  Dolly  rescued.  An  impish  impulse  moved 
Graham,   intent   upon   each   other,  her.
