[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Committee]

Work Meeting—Sewing
(A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)
Lesson 6—Finishing, Trimming, Collars, Bands, Hems
Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman
For Tuesday March 11, 1947
Objective: To demonstrate the use of different trimmings, and the adjusting of necklines and hems.
Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 8, 9, 16, 21.
Trimmings
Very often a perfectly fitted and correctly lined garment is completely spoiled by its trimmings. Study line, balance, and proportion carefully for trimmings. The decorative items of a costume should never look as if they had been fastened on the garment, but they should be blended into its very lines. (See The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter 21.)
Collars
Collar fashions change from one season to another, but the basic method never changes. The foundation is always the same, the dress neck.
The fit and shape of a dress neck govern the fit of the collar. A perfect neckline that hugs the base of the neck is most essential. A smart, comfortable collar can never be perfected on a weak foundation. Figure A illustrates how a dress neckline must fit to the base of the neck to make a proper fitting collar. Figure B illustrates a poor dress neckline which is cut too low at the back.
[Two illustrated profile drawings of women's heads showing correct (A) and incorrect (B) neckline fits]
850 To alter a poor dress neckline, recut the shoulders and the neck, if the blouse is long enough. If not, add a piece of material, as from 1-2 shown on Figure B. (See The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter 16, pp. 110-115). Hems Know the purpose of hems. 'Too many sewers think the only purpose of a hem is to dispose of, or hide, the raw edge at the bottom of a dress. A hem is a finish for the lower edge, or on other parts of a garment. All types of Hems should be even, without the slightest variation. The method of sewing in place depends on the design of the garment and the type of fabric. Some hems serve only as a finish, while others are decorative as well. The average person pulls the stitches too tight and over RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DECEMBER 1946 stitches when hemming. For the average weight material, stitches should be from 3/8 to 3/4 inches apart. The stitches should have sufficient ease to prevent an imprint of the stitch from showing on the right side of the garment. Never put a hem in silks, woolens, or fine muslin with a sewing machine. Hems in materials of these types should always be put in by hand. The usual depth of a hem for dresses and skirts is about 2 inches, unless the skirt is flared or circular, then the hem should be narrower. The fullness at the top of a circular hem, if it is made too deep, causes a bulky, heavy top, resulting in a pronounced hemline on the right side of the garment. Assignment for April: Bring the dress you have completed, ready for fasteners, and bring the type of fasteners desired. Literature America as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 6
Carrying America Across a Continent Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, March 4, 1947 AT one time, the writer, visiting the historical museum at Portland, Oregon, was shown by its veteran custodian, George Himes, an intriguing exhibit. "This corner," said the pioneer, "has a relic from each state east of the Mississippi. Here, for example, is a clock that ticked time in Vermont; here a scythe that mowed blue grass in Kentucky; here a Franklin stove that warmed a home in Pennsylvania; and here a cradle in which a baby was rocked as its parents crossed the plains from Indiana." "That is most interesting," was the response. "Wouldn't it be fine, too, if we could show something else those pioneers carried into their great conquest of the West?" "What is that?" "Oh, I was just thinking of their high American ideals based on a spirit of true Christianity. They came to build homes, and with them schools, and churches. They came to found communities of the American pattern and spirit." "Yes, indeed, they did," agreed the pioneer, "and they even sprinkled our map with names of their old towns. Portland, for instance, is named for Portland, Maine. There are thirty-two Salems, I am told, in the United States; and I don't know how many Springfields, and Farmingtons." Here was truly a transplanting of our civilization across a continent. In the story of this great westward march of America, there is something of deeper significance than just the outward, the material aspects of pioneering. It was  
spiritual urge that, perhaps unknowingly with some individuals and groups, gave motive and  purpose to the mighty movement.
Inspired by such a thought as this, Katherine Lee Bates wrote these lines in her ''America, the Beautiful": O Beautiful for pilgrim feet.