[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Place of Relief Lee]
The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve [Delivered at the officers' meeting of the general Relief Society conference, held in the Assembly Hall, Thursday morning, October 3, 1946.] T is not likely that I shall say anything new to you on this subject of the Relief Society in the Church Welfare Program, and | shall only attempt this morning to lay down a few general, broad principles that might aid you as Relief Society leaders to more clearly see your place and to fill it, in the accomplishment of that which we have been assigned to do under what has been popularly, or otherwise, known as the Church Welfare Plan. I should first like to discuss the relationship that the Relief Society organization has to the Priesthood. The Apostle Paul said to the Corinthians: Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord (I Cor. 11:11). Now, while that had reference to marriage, I would like to paraphrase that to give strength to this point: Neither the brethren of the Priesthood can succeed in the Welfare Program without the sisters of the Relief Society, nor can the Relief Society succeed without the brethren of the Priesthood. President Joseph F. Smith, who has analyzed for us this relationship, has made two very significant expressions on this subject at various times, and I read those statements: I have in mind our auxiliary organizations; What are they?
Helps to the standard organizations of the Church.
They are not independent. I want to say to the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and to the Relief Society, and to the Primaries, and to the Sunday Schools... And all the rest of the organizations in the Church, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God. Not any of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the Lord when they withdraw from the voice and from the counsel of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. 'They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organizations independently of the Priesthood and of the Church (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, page 479). And then he said this: We expect to see the day, if we live long enough, and if some of us do not live long enough to see it, there are others who will, when every council of the Priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will understand its duty—will assume its own responsibility, will magnify its calling and fill its place in the Church to the utmost, according to the intelligence and ability possessed by it.
When that day shall come, there will not be so much necessity for work that is now being done by the auxiliary organizations because it will be done by the regular quorums of the priesthood (Gospel Doctrine, p. 199, 31d Ed; April C-R_ 1906, page 3). How much time will pass before that will take place none of us know, but until that time comes, we Page 809 must invite and expect the great body of sisters, represented in this leadership here this morning, and the other auxiliary organizations, to give assistance to the Priesthood as they are now expected to do.
There will be said to you in every stake welfare meeting where our General Committee members assemble with you, there will be said in the General Welfare meeting which will be held Saturday morning in the Tabernacle, beginning at eight o'clock, some of the phases of the essential parts of the Welfare Program that I shall discuss with you here this morning for a few moments. As we see it, after ten and a half years of intensive activity, there are three essentials to an effective program in every stake of the Church if the welfare objectives are to be realized. The first essential is that there must be welfare projects conducted and developed on a permanent basis to produce the commodities adjudged necessary to take care of those who may have to be assisted. AY I be specific as to what we mean by that kind of a project. For that to be realized, our wheat must be produced on land owned and operated by a ward or Priesthood quorum or by the stake. Our beef must be procured from cattle which we pasture, and feed, and slaughter in the Welfare Program. Our milk must be obtained from cows which we own and which are fed with hav and grain which we produce, from cows which are sheltered in sheds and barns, built from lumber which we obtain in the Welfare Program, and milked by brethren who are unemployed and need assistance. And the milk that comes from those cows must be processed in milk plants and in dairies and in condenseries and churns in order to produce the milk and the cheese and the butter that we need to take care of our people. Our shoes must come from hides that we procure from the cattle that we slaughter to provide our meat. And the hides must be tanned in our own tanneries, and manufactured in our own plants which employ people who otherwise would be unemployed, or who must be trained in order to take their place in private industry. I am hoping for the day to come when we can take the raw cotton and the raw wool which we now obtain as an assignment in the Welfare Program and have that raw material spun into yarns, and that yarn woven into cloth, and then have our sisters direct the processing of that cloth we thus produce, into bedding, clothing, mattresses, and the other things we need in the Welfare Program.
That is what we mean by permanent welfare projects, and until we move forward in that program to as near the hundred per cent production of our needs in the Welfare Program, we are not striking a maximum efficiency. President Wilford Woodruff made a significant statement, about fifty years ago, in an address that he delivered at the Weber Stake conference, and this is what he said: So far as temporal matters are.
Concerned we have got to go to work and provide for ourselves. The day will come when—as we have been told—we shall all see the necessity of making our own shoes and clothing and raising our own' food, 

 —DECEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PLAN and uniting together to carty out the purposes of the Lord. We will be preserved in the mountains of Israel in the day of God's judgment. I, therefore, say to you, my brethren and sisters, prepare for that which is to come ( Weber Stake Conference, Oct. 8, 1894; MS. 56:643-4)- That warning and that prophecy ought not to fall on deaf ears. NOW: where is the place of the Relief Society in the accomplishment of this essential objective?
Years ago when the Welfare Program was just getting underway, Surveys were made throughout the Church of the homes where difficulty and want and distress were to be found. We found a very startling situation. In the great majority of those homes—and | would suppose ninety to ninety-five per cent, or even more—the mothers in the homes of most of those families did not know how to bake their own bread; they did not know how to remodel or remake their clothes; they did not know how to preserve fruits and vegetables, and their husbands were unskilled laborers. I want you to look at that picture, you sisters, and then ask yourselves ¢ that kind of a home is prepared to withstand the shock of unemployment and want and distress. We discovered in this Welfare Program that we had lost many of those pioneer skills that made for independence and thrift and industry.
Thank the Lord, through the guidance of wise men, we are bringing back some of those old skills; we are learning how to make rugs, and, as I go throughout the Church, I find that after you have made your, shall I say, arduous assignment of rugs, that you have agonized about in many cases, I find that you are finding 811 the opportunity and the materials to make a few of those extra lovely rugs to grace your own homes. It is a splendid thing, as I see, that homemade rugs that you have learned how to make yourselves in the Welfare Program, are finding a place in our homes. Breadmaking, dressmaking, food preservation—there was never a time in our lives when there was as fine 4 training program for the mothers of this Church as there is at the present time '1 those essential and fundamental skills, and may I now impress this one thought: We are failing in this Welfare Program if and when we have mothers of homes receiving assistance who are able bodied and can do so, when they are not brought into the production assignments, in sewing and breadmaking and tug weaving. You Sisters must see to it that all able bodied persons, whose home conditions permit them to do so, brought in to help to be producers in that program from which they receive sustenance. We fail in that, and we fail in one of the prime requirements of the Welfare Program.
Even though they may not be able to come to your centers, even though it may require someone being sent into their homes to teach them if they cannot come to a center, you presidents should see to it that someone teaches them, and they have work to do in their own homes where they may have to be surrounded by their own children.
There is another essential in this program before we can move forward, and that is that there must be a storehouse, adequately stocked with a full supply of welfare-produced commodities, and within the reach of every bishop, and of course his Relief Society president, who is his right-hand assistant in this work. Now, where do you fit into that Program? As I go throughout the Church, I frequently ask how many presidents have seen the Food Distribution Guide, and I am startled ofttimes to find that not even the stake Relief Society president has ever seen a Food Distribution Guide. You cannot be of very effective assistance in this distribution program unless you know two things: One is that you know what foods are in the storehouse, available for distribution; and the second, that you have some comprehension of the estimated amount families of average size will require.
Possession and understanding and use of that Food Distribution Guide will help to answer both questions.
Without it, you are in the dark: with it, you become effective tools in the Welfare Program. Now, in order for you to give that kind of assistance, there is another thing you must know and_ understand.
What are the resources that the Church has, or you might call them assets, in order to solve an individual welfare problem? How do you start to solve it? Suppose I should ask you this question at this time.
Suppose that tonight a telephone call comes to the father of a family where he is at work, bringing him the distressing word that his little son has been hit with an automobile and has been rushed to the hospital, critically injured.
This family is making only a very low income, just barely enough to keep the family together with food and the essentials. Now there faces the family immediately, a doctor bill, a hospital bill—how in the world are you going to handle it? I fear if I should ask you that question and have you answer it here, most of you would say: "Well, we will call on the fast offering funds." And that is not the way the Welfare Program begins, and that is where we make our error. In the first place, we start out with the individual himself. We do not move from that point until we have helped the individual to do all he can to help his own problem. Now, sentiment and our emotional sympathy might push us to other conclusions, but that is the first, and then we reach out to the immediate relatives of that family. We are losing the family solidarity, we are losing the strength that comes from family unity, when we fail to give opportunity and to help to direct a way by which immediate relatives of that family, so distressed, can come to the aid of their own. HEN, the next point we move to is to call on the storehouse for the immediate necessities. In a home like that I have just described, I want you to see the advantage of giving to that family the clothing, the food, bedding, fuel that they need for a couple of months in order to relieve the cash that they otherwise would spend to pay for that emergency hospital bill, rather than merely taking fast offerings and passing it out to them in money. In the instance of giving commodities from the storehouse, you are merely giving that family a drawing account on the commodities which they themselves have helped to produce, or that have been exchanged for that which they 

 —DECEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PLAN helped to produce. You will find that which we receive as compensation in that indirect way for work done, will uplift and preserve the pride and help that individual to be more independent than if we start with this other and easiest course, without following the Welfare way. Now, beyond what you can do from the storehouse, then the next thing, of course, is to recommend to the bishop the use of the fast offering fund, which, he has been schooled, is to be used first from that which he provides from his own efforts and the efforts of his leaders. To that end, we must always put the gathering of fast offerings and the increasing of the fast offerings, and teaching the law of fasting, as one of the foremost parts of the Welfare Plan. In some places we have got away from that, and especially in centers where they have not many people in need. But keep in mind the law of the fast, and the increasing of fast offerings to a point where everybody is fasting from two meals and paying the full equivalent cost of those two meals as a contribution.
That is one of the prime things to provide the substance to meet that. In this teaching, the Relief Society has a responsibility. Now then, following from that, we come to the rehabilitation aspects of our problems.
There the Relief Society, and there the Priesthood quorums play their major part. Now what is the Relief Society's part in a rehabilitation program? Well, the first thing you do, as you visit the home of a distressed family, is to do as the bishop requires, make an analysis of the conditions of the home. I am going to talk about that in a few moments to indicate 813 why I think the Lord has given us a marvelous program in sending sisters of your attainments into such homes. OU go there to make the analysis, find out conditions, and to make an order on the storehouse, if that be necessary, and report back to your bishop the needs of the family for his approval and withdrawal from the storehouse, or from funds that he has in his Possession, if that be necessary. The second thing you do is to make certain that the home management problems of that home are studied, and that there be set in motion such direction that will help to cure the evils that are there. You must stand ready to meet home emergencies, sickness, death, and other conditions of that kind, that call upon a sisterly sympathy that ought to be expressed by the Relief Society Then, too, you must be always morale builders in this part of the program.
