[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Bruce Redd McConkie Sharp]

) Bruce Redd McConkie Sustained a Member of First Council of Seventy Counselor Marianne C. Sharp THE BRUCE R. McCONKIE FAMILY Elder Bruce R. McConkie, new member of the First Council of Seventy, with his wife, Amelia Smith McConkie, and their children: Vivian, age six; Stanford Smith, age three; Mary Ethel, age five months; Joseph Fielding, age five. N October 6, 1946, Bruce Redd McConkie was_ sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy, filling the vacancy caused by the death, last May, of Elder John H. Taylor.
This action brings to the Council a man thirty-one years of age, one in the full vigor and power of mind and body, called to become one of the "traveling ministers unto the Gentiles first and also unto the Jews." Elder McConkie comes to this high calling richly endowed by native ability, parental training, and self-improvement. Page 818 He was reared in a house of faith where his parents, Oscar W. McConkie and Vivian Redd McConkie, taught the gospel by precept and also by daily example. Asa young boy, Bruce exhibited those traits of character that a BRUCE REDD McCONKIE Latter-day Saint teacher would wish in a student. He was a thoughtful, obedient lad of a sober disposition, faithful and true, courteous in all his actions, but ever ready to defend the truth.
Even as a child, he possessed an unusual knowledge of the scriptures, and, as he has grown to full maturity, his early promise has been realized, until today he is of such a stature that the Lord, through his servants, has chosen him as one to help carry on his great work in these latter days. Brother McConkie has had thorough training and outstanding experience in his chosen profession —the law. He spent four years in the army engaged in security and intelligence work and, during those years, he was promoted from a first lieutenant to a lieutenant colonel. He comes well trained to his new calling, for he has been serving as senior president of the 340th Quorum of Seventy in Monument Park Ward of Bonneville Stake. He will receive full support in his 819 devoted wife, Amelia Smith McConkie, daughter of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Quorum of the Twelve and the late Ethel Reynolds Smith. Sister McConkie's home training has been such as to give her an understanding and appreciation of the added responsibilities which, as the wife of a General Authority, will be hers in rearing her children during the times when her husband will be absent from home on his Church duties. Relief Society women will feel particularly well acquainted with the McConkie family since the mothers of both Brother and Sister McConkie served, for many years, as faithful and capable members of the Relief Society General Board. Elder McConkie assumes his new duties with a keen sense of the honor and responsibility which have come to him so early in life, and he can be relied upon to give to the Lord's work full measure, running over, of his great faith, devotion, new Church assignment from his pa