[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Struthers]
that  what  your  sympathy  is  saying  is 
not  the  truth. 
But  this  last,  and  this  valued  kind 
of  sympathy,  is  the  kind  that  I  want 
you  to  exercise,  if  you  would  be 
helpful  to  this  Program,  and  that  is 
the  sympathy  that  is  not  merely  try- 
ing to  see  another  one's  problems 
through  your  eyes,  but  it  is  the 
sympathy  that  tries  to  see  their 
trouble  through  their  eyes.  It  is  the 
kind  of  sympathy  that  tries  to  put 
oneself  in  the  place  of  the  sufferer. 
I  want  you  to  think  about  that  for 
a  moment. 
I  listened  to  one  of  our  leaders 
tell  me  about  how  he  approached 
the  knotty  problems  that  came  in 
their  council  meetings,  and  he  said: 
''When  it  gets  to  a  point  where  I  do 
not  know  which  way  to  turn  and 
what  to  answer,  I  sit  for  a  few  mo- 
ments and  reflect  if  the  Master  were 
here  in  our  place— and  this  is  his 
work— how  would  the  Master  set 
about  it.  What  would  be  his  an- 
swer to  this  problem?  And  then  I 
begin  to  see  how  kindly  he  ap- 
proached his  tasks.  I  begin  to  see 
how  he  got  into  the  individual  hearts 
of  his  people." 
When  I  heard  our  leader  describ- 
ing his  approach  I  thought  of  the 
picture  that  1  had  seen  of  Jesus  sit- 
ting on  the  seashore,  teaching  old 
Zebedee  and  his  two  sons,  James 
and  John— have  you  seen  the  beau- 
tiful painting?  Old  Zebedee,  for 
fifty  or  more  years,  has  only  thought 
in  one  groove.  He  sits  there  as  much 
as  to  say:  'Tou  try  to  teach  me  any- 
thing different  than  I  have  been 
thinking."  James  and  John,  his 
younger  sons,  seem  to  be  listening 
more  intently,  but  here  sits  the 
Master.  He  has  placed  his  hand 
kindly  on  the  forearm  of  this  old 
grizzled  veteran,  Zebedee.  The  Mas- 
ter does  not  seem  to  be  in  a  hurr\\ 
He  has  no  trains  to  catch  nor  any 
appointments  to  keep.  He  looks  like 
he  can  sit  there  all  day  and  all  next 
week,  and  all  next  month  if  it  were 
necessar}'.  It  looks,  from  the  expres- 
sion on  his  face,  that  he  is  willing  to 
illustrate,  to  put  it  anew,  to  repeat 
it,  if  necessary,  in  order  to  make  it 
sink  in. 
"I^ELL,  that  is  the  way.  He  could 
teach  because  he  was  seeing 
Zebedee's  life  through  Zebedee's 
own  eyes.  That  is  why  he  was  the 
perfect  teacher.  He  was  not  sitting 
back  and  trying  to  make  Zebedee  see 
through  his  eyes.  He  was  trying,  as 
the  perfect  teacher,  to  help  the 
learner  through  his  own  thinking. 
I  want  you,  again,  to  see  another 
picture  where  Jesus  has  set  us  a  great 
example.  He  is  hanged  upon  the 
cross.  Cruel  spikes  have  been  driv- 
en into  his  hands  and  into  his  feet. 
A  spear  has  been  thrust  in  his  side 
to  hasten  his  death.  Cruel  thorns 
have  been  mashed  down  upon  his 
brow.  The  blood  is  now  trickling 
down  in  his  eves  and  over  his  cheeks. 
{Continued  on  page  841 )

Bruce  Redd  McConkie  Sustained  a 
Member  of  First  Council 
of  Seventy 
Counseloi  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
THE  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE  FAMILY 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  new  member  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  with  his 
wife,  Amelia  Smith  McConkie,  and  their  children:  Vivian,  age  six;  Stanford  Smith,  age 
three;  Mary  Ethel,  age  five  months;  Joseph  Fielding,  age  five. 
ON  October  6,  1946,  Bruce 
Redd  McConkie  was  sus- 
tained as  a  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  filling  the 
\acancy  caused  by  the  death,  last 
May,  of  Elder  J-ohn  H.  Taylor.  This 
action  brings  to  the  Council  a  man 
thirty-one  years  of  age,  one  in  the 
full  vigor  and  power  of  mind  and 
body,  called  to  become  one  of  the 
"traveling  ministers  unto  the  Gen- 
Poge  818 
tiles  first  and  also  unto  the  Jews." 
Elder  McConkie  comes  to  this 
high  calling  richly  endowed  by  na- 
tive ability,  parental  training,  and 
self-improvement.  He  was  reared 
in  a  house  of  faith  where  his  parents, 
Oscar  W.  McConkie  and  Vivian 
Redd  McConkie,  taught  the  gospel 
by  precept  and  also  by  daily  exam- 
ple. As  a  young  boy,  Bruce  exhibit- 
ed those  traits  of  character  that  a

BRUCE  REDD  McCONKIE  819 
Latter-day  Saint  teacher  would  wish  devoted    wife,    AmeHa    Smith    Mc- 
in  a  student.    He  was  a  thoughtful,  Conkie,  daughter  of  Elder  Joseph 
obedient  lad  of  a  sober  disposition,  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Quorum   of 
faithful  and  true,  courteous  in  all  the  Twelve  and  the  late  Ethel  Rev- 
his  actions,  but  ever  ready  to  defend  nolds    Smith.     Sister     McConkie's 
the  truth.    Even  as  a  child,  he  pos-  home  training  has  been  such  as  to 
sessed  an  unusual  knowledge  of  the  give  her  an  understanding  and    ap- 
scriptures,  and,  as  he  has  grown  to  preciation  of  the  added  responsibili- 
full  maturity,  his  early  promise  has  ties  which,  as  the  wife  of  a  General 
been  realized,  until  today  he  is  of  Authority,  will  be  hers  in  rearing  her 
such    a    stature    that    the    Lord,  children  during  the  times  when  her 
through  his  servants,  has  chosen  him  husband  will  be  absent  from  home 
as  one  to  help  carry  on  his  great  on  his  Church  duties, 
work  in  these  latter  days.  Relief   Societ}-  women   will   feel 
Brother      McConkie     has      had  particularly  weH^acquainted  with  the 
thorough   training  and  outstanding  McConkie  family  since  the  mothers 
experience  in  his  chosen  profession  of  both  Brother  and  Sister  McConk- 
-the  law.    He  spent  four  years  in  ie  serv^ed,  for  many  years,  as  faithful 
the  army  engaged  in  security  and  and  capable  members  of  the  Rehef 
intelligence  work  and,  during  those  Societ)^  General  Board. 
years,  he  was  promoted  from  a  first  gj^^^  McConkie  assumes  his  new 
duties  with  a  keen  sense  of  the  hon- 
lieutenant  to  a  lieutenant  colonel. 
He  comes  well  trained  to  his  new  ,  .,  .,.         i  •  ,     , 
calling,  for  he  has  been  serving   as  ^'   ^"^    responsibility   ^yhlch   have 
senior  president  of  the  340th  Quor-  ^^"^^  ^^  ^"^^  ^^  ^^^b'  ^^  ^^f^'  ^"^  ^e 
urn  of  Seventy  in  Monument  Park  can  be  relied  upon  to  give  to  the 
Ward  of  Bonneville  Stake.  Lord's  work  full  measure,  running 
He  will  receive  full  support  in  his  over,  of  his   great   faith,    devotion, 
new  Church  assignment  from   his  loyalty,  and  capabilities. 
CHRISTMAS-EVE  MAGIC 
Mary  /.  Morris 
After  the  lights  and  the  balls  of  red  and  blue
