[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan President J. Reuben Clark, Jr]
role  as  mothers  and  grandmothers 
has  ever  been  one  of  helpfulness  and 
understanding  for  the  greater  cause. 
No  man  has  e\er  been  trulv  great 
without  the  recognition  of  his  moth- 
er's place  in  a  climb  to  prominence. 
Nor  is  it  true  that  his  mother  would 
ask  for  praise  for  a  lo\ing  service  so 
performed.  She  it  is  who  finds  her 
joy  in  ha\'ing  given  the  world  a  lead- 
er rather  than  in  seeking  satisfaction 
through  words  that  eulogize  her  sac- 
rifices. 
Page  773

774 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1946 
In  a  Church  sense,  the  auxihary 
organizations  do,  in  part,  parallel  a 
service  not  unlike  that  of  a  mother. 
They  indirectly,  but  with  effective 
guidance,  aid  in  looking  after  the 
spiritual,  mental,  and  moral  welfare 
of  Church  members  in  their  tender 
years.  In  the  main,  it  is  the  youth 
of  Zion  that  learns  of  the  gospel  by 
means  of  the  Primary,  the  Sunday 
School,  and  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations.  These  attractive 
helps  in  Church  government  should 
not  therefore  be  new  in  point  of 
purpose  to  a  Relief  Society  member. 
They  can  become,  if  supported  and 
used,  a  much  needed  influence  for 
guidance  beyond  the  home.  Bless- 
ings are  to  be  gained  by  membership 
in  all  the  auxiliaries,  each  one  of 
which  has  purposely  been  planned 
to  aid  in  the  particular  problems  of 
an  age  group  within  the  Church. 
In  the  early  days  of  the  Church, 
each  willing  worker  who  would 
thrust  in  his  sickle  found  the  per- 
sonal joy  of  reaping  a  harvest  of 
friends  for  the  Lord.  These  could 
be  visited  often.  The  communion 
and  fellowship  resulting  therefrom 
were  intimate.  By  the  time  the  saints 
had  arrived  in  the  \'alleys  of  the 
mountains,  another  phase  in  the  de- 
velopment of  the  Church  was 
reached.  No  longer  could  the  mem- 
bers be  looked  upon  as  the  ''little 
flock,"  often  so  called  by  the  Lord. 
Rather  his  people  had  become  a 
modern  camp  of  Israel,  the  correc- 
tion and  guidance  of  which  called 
for  organization.  It  was  not  long, 
therefore,  until  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions were  needed  to  supplement 
the  regular  work  of  the  Priesthood 
quorums. 
Tliree  names  will  always  be  re- 
membered in  connection  with  the 
auxiliary  organizations  discussed  in 
this  lesson.  President  Brigham 
Young,  Richard  Ballantyne,  and 
Aurelia  S.  Rogers.  It  was  to  each 
of  these  leaders  that  the  inspiration 
came  to  see  the  larger  field  for  har- 
vest, and  the  v^ll  to  help  reap  the 
same. 
It  should  be  mentioned,  too,  in 
connection  with  the  M.I.A.,  that 
Brother  Heber  C.  Kimball,  in  the 
early  days  of  Nauvoo,  saw  the  need 
of  gathering  the  young  people  of  the 
Church,  and  did  so  to  provide  in- 
struction for  them.  In  a  sense,  that 
forward-looking  plan  may  be  con- 
sidered the  early  dawning  of  the  Mu- 
tual Improvement  work,  though, 
true  it  is,  that  President  Brigham 
Young  brought  our  present-day  aux- 
iliary into  actual  being. 
On  December  9,  1849,  Richard 
Ballantyne  gathered  into  his  home 
some  thirty  children  to  start  what 
later  came  to  be  the  first  Sunday 
School  held  in  the  Great  Salt  Lake 
Valley.  Brother  Ballantyne's  pur- 
pose is  expressed  in  his  own  words: 
I  felt  that  the  gospel  was  too  precious 
to  myself  to  be  withheld  from  the  children; 
they  ought  to  ha\e  the  privileges  of  gos 
pel  teaching  and  that  was  the  main  pur 
pose,  to  teach  the  gospel.  (Deseret  Suii- 
da\-  School  Haudhook,   page  8.) 
A  vear  later,  this  Sunday  School 
was  gi\en  a  permanent  house  in  the 
old  Fourteenth  \\^ard  meeting  house 
witli  the  first  duh-  appointed  super- 
intendencv  under  the  Priesthood  of 
God.  Richard  Ballantyne  was 
named  superintendent,  with  Joseph 
Home  and  Phineas  Richards,  as  as- 
sistants. 
From  this  humble  beginning  in 
1849,  the  membership  of  the  Sun- 
day   Schools    in    the    Church    has

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
775 
grown,  in  1946,  to  360,332  (Deseret 
S.  S.  Report,  January  1,  1946).  By 
means  of  the  General  Board,  lessons 
and  teaching  aids  are  outlined  and 
developed  so  that,  today,  a  mighty 
Latter-day  Saint  Sunday  School 
around  the  world  meets  each  Sab- 
bath day,  sings  the  songs  of  Zion, 
marches  to  class  for  instruction,  and 
voices,  through  prayer,  the  united 
joy  of  thousands  of  hearts.  The  Sun- 
day School  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant gospel-teaching  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church,  and  invites  all, 
both  young  and  old,  to  join  its  ranks. 
In  the  Thirteenth  Ward  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  June  10,  1875,  President 
Brigham  Young  organized  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association.  He  expressed  the  need 
for  this  organization  as  follows: 
We  want  you  to  organize  yourselves  in- 
to associations  for  mutual  improvement. 
Let  the  key-note  of  your  work  be  the 
establishment  in  the  youth  of  individual 
testimony  of  the  truth  and  magnitude  of 
the  great  latter-day  work;  the  development 
of  the  gifts  within  them  that  have  been 
bestowed  upon  them  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands  of  the  servants  of  God;  cultivating 
a  knowledge  and  an  application  of  the 
eternal  principles  of  the  great  science  of 
life.  Each  member  will  find  that  happi- 
ness in  this  world  mainly  depends  on  the 
work  he  does,  and  the  way  in  which  he 
does  it. 
The  present  leaders  of  the  Church 
look  to  this  organization  to  teach  the 
young  people  to  develop  the  gifts 
within  them;  to  express  themselves 
before  the  public,  to  enable  them  to 
study  and  practice  civil,  vocational, 
social,  scientific,  and  educational  af- 
fairs; and  also  to  train  them  in  all 
that  pertains  to  religious,  moral,  so- 
cial, physical,  and  intellectual  ad- 
\ancement. 
The  auxiliary  organization  for  the 
children  of  the  Church  found  its 
leader  in  a  pioneer  mother  whose 
love  of  the  beautiful  in  life  and  con- 
cern for  the  well-being  of  little  chil- 
dren stirred  her  to  action.  At  Farm- 
ington,  Utah,  in  1878,  Aurelia  S. 
Rogers  organized  the  Primary  As- 
sociation. She  was  set  apart  at  this 
time  to  preside  over  this  work. 
For  some  time  .  .  .  Sister  Aurelia  S. 
Rogers  .  .  .  had  reflected  upon  the  need 
of  a  more  strict  guardianship  over  the 
boys  and  girls  of  Zion.  She  felt  the  ne- 
cessity for  more  religious  and  moral  train- 
ing than  they  were  then  receiving;  be- 
lieved that  children  should  be  taught  to 
beautify  the  home  with  the  workmanship 
of  their  own  hands,  and  learn  to  culti- 
vate a  love  for  music,  for  flowers,  and  for 
the  beautiful  in  all  things  {Essentials  in 
Church  History,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
page  656). 
Today  this  Association  has  grown 
in  numbers  to  over  a  hundred  thou- 
sand. 
The  responsibility  of  the  organ- 
ization, as  stated  by  its  present  lead- 
ers is  threefold:  to  give  weekday  re- 
ligious instruction  to  the  children  of 
the  Church;  to  supervise  and  direct 
their  leisure  time  activities;  and  to 
encourage  proper  health  habits. 
The  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church  today  reflect  the  practical 
power  of  the  gospel.  The  desire  to 
share  the  good  life  has  been  made 
more  than  a  dream.  Faith  has  made 
works  live  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 
Suggestions  for  Active  Reading  and 
Discussion 
1.  Explain  how  the  Church  auxiliaries 
have  helped  the  missionarv  work  of  the 
Church. 
2.  Tell  about  some  of  the  interesting 
activities  which  ha\e  been  carried  on  by 
your  local  auxiliaries.

776