VII What Do We Know of the Other Side? FEBRUARY. 1920 No. 2 (Yes;  what do we know about the World beyond the grave? We know a great deal, and the world knows very little. In this article we have grouped a number of well-authenticated descriptions from our Church leaders.) PREST. JEDEDIAH M. GRANTS VIEW OF THE SPIRIT WORLD. A Memorable Incident Recalled to Mind by L. Lula Greene Richards With the several eventful days of the present month, February, the 21st may be noted and remembered by the Latter-day Saints as the birthday of one of their early heroes. President Jedediah Morgan Grant, he having been born on that date, in the year 1816. And on March 21, 1833, sixteen days before the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was three years old, that valiant and fearless advocate of the principles of the restored gospel was received into its sacred folds by baptism and became a most energetic and powerful teacher, both by word and example, of the plan of salvation, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Jedediah M. Grant, the father of President Heber J. Grant who now presides as prophet, seer and revelator and president of the Church, after his baptism strenuously devoted his whole remaining earthly existence to the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth and the salvation of God's children. In 1854, when a vacancy was occasioned in the first presidency of the Church, in Utah, by the death of the second counselor. Elder Willard Richards, Brother Grant was chosen as Brother Richards' successor. A beautiful and enduring tribute and testimony of the love and confidence with which President Brigham Young regarded 
 his counselor, President Grant, was evinced in the fact that two sons of the former were named for the latter, but they both died in childhood. All students of the early history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are more or less familiar with strikingly interesting and faith promoting anecdotes and stories wherein Jedediah M. Grant became noted for the prompt inspiration, brilliant wit, and masterful logic with which he always succeeded in confounding and putting to silence those who opposed his message of truth as a "defender of the faith." It is not, however, the purpose of this article to reproduce any of those richly entertaining narrations. Yet, the desire is to recall briefly an account of the most remarkable of all President Grant's earthly experiences, as related by himself to the brethren and his family, a few days previous to his death which took place in Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec. 1, 1856, when he was forty years old. This last wonderful story was repeated at President Grant's funeral by President Heber C. Kimball from whose discourse the following abridgment is made: President Kimball told of having visited Elder Grant a short time before his death and said, "He could not speak, but shook hands warmly with me. I laid my hands upon him and blessed him and asked God to strengthen his lungs that he might be easier;  and in two or three minutes he raised himself up and talked for about an hour as busily as he could tell me of what he had seen and what he understood." He said to me, "Brother Heber, I have been into the spirit world two nights in succession, and of all the dreads that ever came across me, the worst was to have again to return to my body, though I had to do it. Oh, the order and government that were there! When in the spirit world, I saw the order of righteous men and women;  I beheld them organized in their several grades, and there appeared to be no obstructions to my vision;  I could see every man and woman in their grade and order. 1 looked to see if there was any disorder there, but there was none, neither could I see any death, nor any darkness or confusion. The people were organized in family capacities, grade after grade, in perfect harmony. Why it is just as Brother Brigham says it is;  just as he has told us many a time. The righteous gathered together in the spirit world and no wicked spirits among them. I saw my wife, Caroline, who was the first person that came to me. I saw many that I knew, but did not have conversation with any but my wife. She looked beautiful and had our little child that died on the plains in her arms. She said, 'Here is little Margaret;  you know the wolves ate up her body, but it did not hurt her;  here she is. all right.' WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 67 "To my astonishment, when I looked at families, there was a deficiency in some;  there was a lack, for I saw families that would not be permitted' to come and dwell together, because they had not honored their calling here. I asked m)'' wife where Joseph and Hyrum and Father Smith, and others, were. She replied, 'They have gone away ahead to perform I and transact business for us.' "Buildings! The Lord gave Solomon wisdom, and poured gold and silver into his hands that he might display his skill and ability;  but the temple erected by Solomon was much inferior to the most ordinary building I saw in the spirit world. "Gardens! I have seen good gardens on this earth, but never any to compare with those that were there. I saw flowers of numerous kinds, some with fifty or a hundred different-colored flowers growing on one stalk. We have many I kinds of flowers on the earth, and I suppose those very articles came from heaven, or they would not be here. The spirits of those things are made as well as ours, and it follows that they can exist upon the same principles. After seeing the beauty of everything there, I felt extremely sorrowful at having to leave so beautiful a place and come back to earth, for I looked upon my body with loathing, but was obliged to enter it again." The account of the marvelous vision of those two nights in which so much that was exceedingly choice and valuable, as well as intensely interesting to learn, as was revealed to that great and good man, Jedediah M. Grant, was reverently repeated among the Saints for years afterwards. And some, who were little children then, have always remembered and cherished the wonderful story as one of the dearest and best descriptions of heaven, or the spirit world, ever uttered by mortal men. More lengthy particulars concerning the subject have been published in Church literature. Let us add to this picture of conditions in the Other World, this remarkable article: Origin, Object, Destiny of Women. The following is taken from "The Mormon," published in New York City, by the late President John Taylor, August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished by Robert Maw, of Plain City. "The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. 
 We have often been requested to give our views in relation to these principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore not meet to give to those vithout. But being very politely requested bya lady a few days since (a member of the Church), to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse, viz: 'Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? and, what is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?' "For her benefit and all others concerned, we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the preexistence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity. "Lady, whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me, if thou hast understanding! Knowest thou not, that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of his eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? "Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy Heavenly Father's bosom in his presence, with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits in the spirit world, among the Gods? That thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou, growing in intelligence, thou sawest worlds upon worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits who took upon them tabernacles, died, were resurrected, and received their exaltion on the redeemed worlds upon which they once dwelt? Thou, being willing and anxious to imitate them, wert waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission, thou madest a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits to be thy guardian angel while in mortality. Also thou didst covenant with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their lineage, and become one of their offspring. Thou also didst choose a kindred spirit whom thou didst love in the spirit world (and who had permission to come to this planet and to take a tabernacle), to be thy head, stay, husband and protection on the earth, and to exalt thee in the eternal worlds. All these covenants and matters were arranged, likewise were the spirits appointed that should tabernacle through thy lineage. Thou didst long and sigh to come, and thou didst pray to thy Father in heaven for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob. Thou didst pray to leave WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 69 thy father and thy mother's bosom and all thy kindred spirits, to come to earth, to take a tabernacle, and to imitate the deeds of those thou hadst seen exalted before thee. "At length the time arrived, and thou heardst the voice of thy Father, saying: "Go, daughter, to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle, and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But, daughter, remember thou goest on this condition;  that is, thou art to forget all things thou hast ever seen or known to be transacted in the spirit world;  thou art not to know or remember anything concerning the things that thou hast beheld transpiring here;  but thou must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in thine infancy;  subject to sickness, pain, tears, mournings, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of thy heart thy soul will vibtate in response thereto;  then shall intelligence illumine thy mind, and shed its lustre in thy soul, and thou shalt begin to understand the things thou didst once know, but which had been forgotten by thee;  thou shalt then begin to understand and know the object of thy creation. Daughter, go and be faithful in thy Second Estate;  keep it as faithfully as thou hast kept thy First Estate. "Thy spirit, on hearing this, wast filled with joy and thanksgiving, and thou didst rejoice in thy Father, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou badest father, mother and all dear ones over there farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, thou camest upon this terraqueous globe. The spirits through whom thou hadst covenanted to come and to get a tabernacle, left the spirit world some years previous, thou camest a spirit pure and holy, to take upon thee a tabernacle. Thou hast obeyed the truth, and thy guardian angel ministers unto thee and watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him whom thou didst love in the spirit world to be thy companion. Now, crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee and thine in the eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of thy heavenly Father, if thou wilt only abide by, and walk in, a celestial law, fulfil the designs of thy creation, and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, thou mayest go down to thy grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive thine everlasting reward in the resurrection of the just, along with thy head and husband. Thou wilt be permitted to pass by the Gods and angels who guard the gates, and go onward and upward to thy exaltation in a celestial world among the Gods;  to be a glorious queen unto thy heav- 
 enly Father, and a glory to thy husband and offspring, to bear the souls of men, to people other worlds (as thou didst bear their tabernacles in mortality), while eternity goes and eternity comes;  and if thou wilt receive it, lady, this is eternal life. And herein is the saying of the Apostle Paul fulfilled, 'That the man is not without the woman in the Lord, neither is the woman without the man in the Lord.' That 'man is the head of the woman, and the glory of the man is the woman.' Hence, this is thine origin, the object of thy creation, and thy ultimate destiny, if thou art faithful. Lady, the cup is within thy reach, drink, then, the heavenly draught, and live." Editorial View. The editor is glad to present these vivid pictures of conditions on the Other Side to our readers, just at this time, for the whole world seems to be filled with the mists and clouds of superstition and spiritualism. Europe and our own country are flooded with stories, books and articles in the daily press from men and women of the highest reputation who detail their experiences with the new spiritualism which goes now under various titles, such as the "New Thought," "Psychical Research," and "Spiritualism." But they are all the same thing — dealing as they do with communications had by mortals with spirits in the spirit world. When such scientists and authors as Sir Oliver Lodge, Conan Doyle, Dr. William Crookes, the famous William James of Harvard, Mrs. Reginald De Koven, Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett, Marie Correlli, and now even our staid and sober New England author, Margaret Deland, enter the ranks of these dabblers in spiritualism, we stand aghast before the tide of rising testimony. Do we accept their findings as true, we Latter-day Saints? Ah, that is quite another question. We certainly believe they can have and do have communications with the Other World;  and we concede the open-minded attitude of some of these seekers. But when our own people get confused with this issue, and assert that such books as, "Thy Son Liveth," is true revelation, and that these peepings and mutterings of mediums, found published in most of the current magazines, are true, because they show much that only Latter-day Saints have known heretofore about that mysterious region, and life over there, it is quite time that the watchmen on the towers of Zion rise up and combat error. Then, you may ask — may we not believe that these mediums tell many startling truths? Most assuredly they do. And no one wonders that the great mass of people in the world are startled and fascinated by their revelations. But, WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 71 remember the expression of Brigham Young: "The Devil will give you nine truths to believe one lie." That they themselves acknowledge their frequent deceit by "mischievous spirits" is shown in nearly all the articles written by these famous people before mentioned. What, then, is our duty as women in Israel, women of the Relief Society which is the leading organization of women in the Church and in the world — what are we to say to our young people who wish to bring these books into our homes, or to play with the Ouija board, or to run after the various forms of spiritualism? Tell your associates and your families just what was told by the mother of President Heber J. Grant, as shown later in this article. As for spiritualistic books, the papers are advocating the destruction of Bolshevik books. An editor for the Salt Lake daily press recently remarked: "Why shouldn't such books be destroyed the same as plants of dynamite and nitroglycerine, which are occasionally found secreted by conspirators against the peace and welfare of communities? It was only the other day the dispatches stated that a certain book published by a well-known firm in New York had been pronounced immoral and unfit to be distributed on account of its possible pernicious influence on the minds of the youth of the country. One of the publishers was arrested and booksellers everywhere were given notice that sale of copies of the book were forbidden by law and offenders would be punished. Such a proscription is unquestionably right, and it no doubt met with the approval of the better element of the people everywhere in the United States. Yet, when one comes to measure the possible evil results of the circulation of an immoral book with a book teaching the rightfulness of anarchism, the glories of free love and the overthrow by violence of the American government, the former is tame by comparison. An immoral novel may have an evil effect upon a youth;  it may be an incentive to adopt wicked practices that may steep his mind in sin and destroy his body, yet the literature of the Bolsheviki will not only have all these evil tendencies, but in addition may incite its readers to deeds of violence against the lives and property of others. The constitutional guaranty of freedom of the press was never intended to permit the dissemination of books written for the avowed purpose of destroying the government. It is far better to destroy the books." If this is true of immoral and "Red" literature, how much more careful would we not guard our young people and silly old people from contamination by the possession of books on spiritualism? A Bolshevist might destroy your body but 
 spiritualism will destroy your soul. Shall we not, then, allow liberty to all men? Yes, certainly. Allow them to choose their course. But let your motto be old Joshua's: "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." These are the days when the very elect shall be deceived, if possible. There is a deep craving, a hungry longing in the human heart, for things spiritual, for sight and sound of the great unknown. And the Lord has amply satisfied that craving for the Latter-day Saints. We cannot wonder that those outside of this Church are reaching out after spiritual comfort and satisfying revelation concerning their loved ones, dead. They have only the husk of tradition and the battered remnants of the old mother church's counterfeit doctrines to feed upon. They have no authority of the Priesthood, no vision, for it is closed. They have no assurances, except such as are begotten from the mere belief in the mission and name of our Savior. But that Name, powerful as it is, requires the authority of the Priesthood and the administration of the ordinances of the gospel, in order to make its use of complete value and power to save the children of men. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other wav, the same is a thief and a robber." -(John, 10:1.) There is a woman, in the East, going about on the lecture platform in the temple clothes. Her picture appears in the papers, and she tells the story of the endowments, and her story is printed. To be sure it is a distorted story as such tales are and always have been;  but it is sufficiently near the truth to cause some people to gasp, and our people to be filled with amazement. Would anyone claim, least of all any of our own people, even the youngest and least acquainted with the endowment ceremonies, that because this woman is thus laying open the sacred truths revealed rightly only in holy temples, built and dedicated for that purpose, that she or any one associated with her could give the divine power, the sure promises, the keys of the Priesthood, simply because she pretends to know about them, or betrays her covenants in her present occupation? Then why imagine for a moment that these sorcerers and mediums, and their tribe can do more than to reveal distorted remnants of the conditions on the Other Side? Even if they could faithfully describe heaven and its various kingdoms, where is their authority to administer in one saving ordinance of the gospel of Jesus Christ? And unless these ordinances are administered here, by those having authority from God, and unless the priests who thus administer are called and set apart as was Aaron, there is no hope of them nor those to whom they minister attaining exaltation WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 73 in the kingdom of God. Read the sermon of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, in our last issue to know the difference between immortality and eternal life. James tells us that the devils know there is but one God, and they tremble. Knowledge alone will not save anyone. The Planchette or Ouija Board. We now present to you a story concerning the planchette or, as it is now called, the Ouija board, which was related by President Heber J. Grant and adds a marvelous experience of our honored President with one of these spiritual mediums: President Grant said: "Speaking of the planchette, reminds me of an incident in MRS. RACHEL R. GRANT AND SON, PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT my youthful days, that is intensely interesting, and it shows the inspiration of the Lord to President Brigham Young. "I happened to be in what is known as the Octagon House, one of the residences of the late William S. Godbe, situated on the corner of Second East and Second South streets. The old building still stands there. I was a young boy at the time and my mother was then going out sewing by the day to earn her livelihood. One of the things that she always arranged was that wherever she was going, I was to call for her after school and take supper with her. I remember that this night she was sewing for a wife of William S. Godbe, until a late hour after supper. While we were sitting in the little sewing 
 room mother was requested to go into the parlor where the people were laughing and joking over the messages they were receiving from a planchette which was operating on the table. My mother positively refused to go into the room, or have anything to do with a message received on the planchette, stating that 'Brother Brigham' had announced that the people should leave planchettes alone, and that those who received messages from them or had any faith in them would lose the testimony of the gospel, if they did not repent of it. She further stated that if you followed the planchette around through the city you would discover that it had left a trail of apostasy behind, especially if the people paid any attention to the messages. "I do not know that this was my mother's exact language, but this was the idea she conveyed. Finally they laughingly said that if she would not go where the planchette was they would bring it where she was, and they brought it into the room where my mother was sewing. She refused to look at it, and they could not make it work in that room where she was. It simply would not deliver any messages there. They went back into the parlor, where it worked splendidly, and they continued their laughing and joking. They soon came back and asked my mother to come into the parlor;  and very much to my astonishment she went into the parlor, notwithstanding she had said she would not go where it was. "As soon as she entered the parlor, the planchette would not work, and they were unable to make it move as long as she remained in the room. When we got home that night, I said: 'Mother, why did you go in the parlor where the planchette was when you said Brother Brigham had advised people to keep away from it?' She said, 'My boy, when they came into the little room where I was sewing, and brought the planchette, I prayed to the Lord that it might not have power to work in my presence;  I told the Lord that I had not gone where it was, and now that they had brought it where I was, I rebuked its power to work and it could not move, and as you know it did not work in my presence. When they afterwards asked me to go into the parlor, I again prayed to the Lord to give me the impression that I could stop the thing from working, and if he would give me that impression I would go into the parlor;  but if I did not get the impression I would not go where it was. I felt that if I could go where it was, and prevent it from working, I was willing to go. The impression came to me that it could not move about in my presence, so I went in the parlor, and as you know, they could not make it work while I was there." WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 75 In connection with this story it is related by our First Counsellor Clarissa Smith Williams, that some one presented to her children some years since, a Ouija board for a Christmas present. She paid little attention to it until one of the Little boys placed the thing on the table, as he had seen others do, and put his little hands upon it. It commenced to move at once, and so terrible was the influence which accompanied it that the child began screaming, and was almost convulsed with terror and distress. Sister Williams at once took the board and threw it into the fire, and no such thing has entered her home since. What about your homes, dear friends, and what about your children? Another experience related by President Grant follows: Power of the Priesthood, "After the death of my first wife, Lucy, on the 3rd of January, 1893, I took my oldest three girls to Chicago, New York, Boston and Washington, to see the sights of these great cities, believing that it would lessen the great sorrow which had come into their lives in the death of their mamma. At Washington my daughters Ray and Lutie were taken down with diphtheria and were sick, nigh unto death. Lutie was so sick that her pulse beat only twenty-eight times to the minute, and they fed her large quantities of the strongest whisky every fifteen minutes, all through the night, to keep her alive. She was given enough whisky to have made a dozen strong men drunk, and it hardly made her tongue thick. I was kneeling, supplicating the Lord to spare her life, pleading with him not to allow the additional sorrow to come to me of one of my children dying while I was away from home. I was shedding bitter tears, when the inspiration came that if I would send out for President George Q. Cannon and Bishop Hiram B. Clawson, who were then in Washington, as they held the Priesthood, they could rebuke the disease, and my daughter would live. I thanked the Lord for this manifestation, and shed tears of gratitude that my daughter's life was to be spared. President Cannon, in blessing Lutie, stated that the adversary had decreed her death and made public announcement of his decree. I subsequently learned that the lady who was the proprietor of the boarding house was a spiritualist, and that she had visited her medium and asked her to tell her what was going to happen in her home. The medium told of the sickness of two little girls, that the older of the two had been nigh unto death, but would recover. She told her that she saw the second little girl get worse and worse, and finally die. She described taking the body out of the house, and the 
 coffin being put upon the railroad train, and the railroad train going hundreds and hundreds of miles toward the west, and then she described the train going over high mountains and then stopping in a valley and the coffin being taken off the train and then taken to a burial ground upon the hillside, where she saw it lowered into a grave. President Cannon, in his prayer, rebuked the destroyer, and announced that Lutie should recover and Hae to be a mother. And in the providences of the Lord, she is now the mother of three children by her husband. Elder George J. Cannon, and their great-grandfather is the man who, in the authority of the Priesthood and in the name of Jesus Christ, rebuked the destroyer's declaration that she was to die and her body be carried home and buried upon the hillside." President Brigham Young's Testimony. We repeat now the clear and searching description of Spiritualism as given by President Brigham Young in the "Journal of Discourses," Vol. 13, Oct. 30, 1870: It was told you here that Brother Joseph warned the elders of Israel against false spirits. It was revealed to me that if the people did not receive the spirit of revelation that God had sent for the salvation of the world, they would receive false spirits, and would have revelation. Men could have revelation, women would have revelation, the priest in the pulpit and the deacon under the pulpit, would have revelation, and the people would have revelation enough to damn the whole nation, and nations of them, unless they would harken to the voice of God. It was not only revealed to Joseph, but to your humble servant, that false spirits would be as prevalent and as common among the inhabitants of the earth as we now see them. I will ask,' Is there any revelation in the world? Yes, plenty of it. We are accused of being nothing more nor less than a people possessing what they term the higher order of spiritualism. Whenever I see this in print or hear it spoken, "You are right," say I. "Yes, we belong to that higher order of spiritualism;  our revelations are from above, yours from beneath." This is the difference. We receive revelation from Heaven, you receive your relevations from every foul spirit that has departed this life, and gone out of the bodies of mobbers, murderers, highwaymen, drunkards, thieves, liars, and every kind of debauched character, whose spirits are floating around here, and searching and seeking whom they can destroy for;  they are the servants of the devil, and they are permitted to come now to reveal to the people." It was not so, once, anciently or formerly, when there was no Priesthood on WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 77 the earth, no revelations from heaven. The Lord Almighty shut up this evidence, and all intercourse between men on the earth, and the foul spirits, so that the latter could not deceive and destroy the former with their revelations. But God has spoken now, and so has the devil;  Jesus has revealed his Priesthood, so has the devil revealed his, and there is quite a difference between the two. One forms a perfect chain, the links of which cannot be separated; , one has perfect order, laws, rules, regulations, organization;  it forms, fashions, makes, creates, produces, protects and holds in existence the inhabitants of the earth, in a pure and holy form of government, preparatory to their entering the kingdom of heaven. The other is a rope of sand;  it is disjointed jargon, confusion, discord;  everybody receiving revelation to suit himself. If I were disposed to go into their circle I could make every table, every dot, every particle of their revelations prove that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I could lay my hands on the table with them, and if I would consent to have the spirits rap. I would make them prove every time that Joseph Smith rap, I would make them prove every time that Joseph Smith place, a wicked man, and he would have all the evidence he desired that Joseph was not a prophet of God. I could make them say, every time, that this is the Church of Christ;  while a wicked man might enter the circle and he would be told that this is not the Church of Christ;  and the results of their efforts are confusion and discord. It is like a rope of sand. There is no order, no organization;  it cannot be reduced to a system, it is uncertainty. That is the difference between the two spiritual systems. The higher order of spiritualism is to be led, governed and controlled by law, and that, too, by the law of heaven that governs and controls the Gods and the angels. There is no being in heaven that could endure there, that could abide the heavens, unless he is sanctified, also purified and glorified by law, and who lives by law. But the others are without law, without organization or authority. Well, what is the result of their revelation? Death. What is that? Dissolution of the body. And what will be next? The second death, and I leave every person to speculate to suit himself with regard to that;  but the scriptures say, "Blessed is he on whom the second death hath no power; " and they who serve God and keep his commandments, who receive the Holy Priesthood of the Son of God, have something tangible, and if they live according to this law, the second death has nothing to do with them. They are above it, free from it, they are masters of it, for they command in the name of Jesus, and their words are obeyed;  and what they say shall be done, is done. This is the authority that God gives. As the scriptures 78 WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? say, "Whatsoever you bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven;  and whatsoever you loose on earth, is loosed in heaven;  and wahatsoever sins ye retain on earth, are retained in heaven." This sermon was preached in 1870. Let us close by quoting from a sermon preached by President Grant in 1920: President Grant referred to the sad and untimely end of a number of people, well known in Utah years ago, who had disregarded the counsels of the Priesthood, regarding spiritualism. He stated that the result in many cases had been sorrow, suicide, insanity and death. He contrasted the lives of these people with the lives of faithful Latter-day Saints who, through obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, had enjoyed the blessings of life and health, and true happiness. He emphasized particularly the longevity of the Latter-day Saints, their high birth rate, low death rate, low divorce rate, and the fact that there is very little insanity among the people. "The fruits of the Gospel are life, virtue, integrity. Everything that is good comes from the Gospel. Nothing that is good ever comes from the source of evil. What are the fruits of spiritualism? — apostacy, insanity, suicide and death;  the fruits are evil from beginning to end." Section 3 of the Doctrine and Covenants says: "For although a man may have many revelations, and have power to do many mighty works, yet if he boasts in his own strength, and sets at nought the counsel of God, and follows after the dictates of his own will and carnal desires, he must fall and incur President the vengeance Grant of referred a just God upon ordination to the him." of President Charles W. Penrose as an elder on January 6, 1851, and called attention to the fact that two of the men, whose names appear on the certificate of ordination, had both lost their standing in the Church because they followed after the dictates of their own carnal desires. Then he said, "You never heard of a man, you never heard of a woman, in all your life, who apostatized from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who followed after the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and not after the dictates of their own will and their own desires. You never heard of the apostasy of a man or woman who kept the commandments of God. But, on the other hand, if they say, 'Oh, it is nothing to drink a cup of tea, or a cup of coffee, to use a little tobacco and liquor;  it is nothing to find fault with the authorities of the Church, it is nothing to fail to pay your tithing;  there is something of more importance than these laws." People who take this attitude are liable to fall, unless they repent. But those who keep the commandments of God will not fall;  they will grow in health, in vigor of body and of mind, and in knowledge of the things of God.