Oh Lad O' Mine Affectionately inscribed to the war mothers of Utah. Annie Wells Cannon. I. You answered the call, Oh. Lad o' Mine, The call to do or to die;  You followed the flag, Oh, Lad o' Mine, With never a question why. n. The flag you loved. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Meant more than life to you;  And you held it high. Oh, Lad o' Mine, With its stars in the field of blue. You followed it far, Oh, Lad o' Mine, And bravely you saw it through With never a stain, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The glorious red, white and blue. IV. On land or on sea, Oh, Lad o' Mine, A song in the heart of you And a prayer at home, Oh, Lad o' Mine, To keep you brave and true. V. Through strife and struggle. Oh, Lad o' Mine, You held your courage high. Nor faltered once, Oh, Lad o' Mine, E'en when death was nigh. 
 VI. The heart beats lighter, Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the valor you have shown;  The stars shine brighter. Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the victory you have won. VIL The victory gained. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies not on battle field, But in your soul, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies safe the victors' shield. VIIL For a conquered world, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Long and loud the sirens ring;  For a conquered self, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The spheres glad anthems sing. THE MORMON BATTALION MONUMENT. The Legislature of 1917, appropriated $100,000 for the erection of a monument, provided the people of the state would raise a similar amount. The commission is fortunate in its chairman, Hon. B. H. Roberts, whose kindling power for any cause is well known in this region. Under his able leadership, assisted by the indefatigable efforts of May Belle T. Davis, an appeal is just now before the people to contribute the money needed to secure the contribution and build a monument. No one who is familiar with the courage, hardihood and suffering, of the Battalion boys, could withhold desire to support this movement which would perpetuate their memory and memorialize the record of their achievements. No matter what opinion some may hold concerning the choice of such a monument, all will unite in answering the call made upon them by their leaders and by the state. We commend the project to all who are now enjoying the benefits derived from the labors of the Pioneers and the Battalion boys. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon NEW GENERAL BOARD MEMBER Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon was appointed by the First Presidency, December 19, to fill the vacancy on our General feoard left by the death of Miss Edna May Davis. Mrs. Cannon has been an active Church worker, since the age of 14. She was associated with her mother in the editing and publishing of the "Woman's Exponent," which was the organ of the Society for forty years. She was made president of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society sixteen years ago next March, and has proved her sterling ability and loyal devotion, not only in her position as president of that stake Relief Society, but also when she worked for years as a member of the General Board. She is a fluent speaker, a gifted writer, and a wise counselor. Mrs. Cannon has had a rich and varied experience. She is the mother of seven stalwart sons and seven lovely daughters. Although actively engaged in public work since her youth, she has not neglected the finer and better part of a woman's wife. life, for she is an ideal mother and a diligent, loyal Mrs. Cannon has been active in political matters for a number of years. Following the steps of her own famous mother, she has done much for the success of Republican politics in this state, and she served a full term in the state legislature. She was the first president of the state War Mother's Association, and is the mother of three soldier boys. Mrs. Cannon will be a decided asset to the General Board of the Relief Society, experienced as she is in all branches of Relief Society activities, and inspired as she is and will be with the wider vision and broader scope of the position she has now been called to occupy. Her wisdom and poise will be felt and appreciated in the counsels of this Society. Oh TheWatchJower© James H. Anderson. Eastern Europe is yet without peace, and the rest of the world cannot boast of an excess of the -desirable article, industrial oi otherwise. • Capt. Ross Smith, an Australian aviator, reached Australia on December 10, on an 11,500-mile airplane trip on which he left England November 12. Food statisticians in Great Britain, analyzing world conditions, announce that a great scarcity of food is due for 1920 and 1921. They have good basis for \heir conclusions. Indians in the United States have increased more than 50,000 in numbers during the past four years. Is the significance ofthis trend on the part of the "remnant of Jacob" apparent to our Society? Over 68,000 girls ran away from home in the United States during 1919. Is the fault with the home, or with the school, or society outside of home life? Emma Goldmann, a Russian by birth but naturalized in America, who has been preaching anarchism in this country for more than thirty years, was deported to Russia on December 21. Emmeline Pankhurst, noted English suffragette, was in Salt Lake City on December 6, and recorded a protest against industrial strikes. She says women have as many rights as men, and inquires what would happen if housewives went on strike for an eight-hour day. Many others than women are in sympathy with Mrs. Pankhurst's views on that question. WATCH TOWER 99 The "right to strike" in this country has grown into an alleged right to prevent other people from working, as exemplified by labor strikes in Utah and elsewhere during the closing months' of 1919. Fashion journals in the United States announce that society women are having butterflies or mice painted on their arms, backs, breasts, knees and thighs. Comment is offensive. Earthquakes occurred during the month of December in Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico and California. During the same period the weather was exceptionally severe all along the Pacific coast of North America. United States courts made an order on November 8 for the great coal strike to cease, but the order was not obeyed. The strike ended on December 15, after President Wilson assented to naming a commission to fix wages. Georges Carpentier, the champion French pugilist, who is a single man, was being urged, in December, by certain eugenists, to get married, for obvious reasons. Some people forget that brute power is not the prime requisite for parenthood. Jews still are being killed off in large numbers in Russia. With these massacres going on, Palestine soon may be large enough to accommodate all of the house of Judah that remain in Europe. Ireland is yet seething with rebellion. On December 18, an effort was made to assassinate the lord lieutenant. Lord French, who commanded the British armies in France and Belgium during the early years of the war. Cardinal Amette, Catholic archbishop of Paris, forbids women who are immodestly dressed entering the churches under his control. Possibly he figures that under the "rule of contrary" the women will dress decently to get into the forbidden precincts, and thus improve church attendance. Indians of different tribes and classes were the first settlers of New York State, is the announcement of State Archeologist Arthur Parker of New York, based on the A. H. Dewey archeological collection in the State museum there. His classification of time accords with the Book of Mormon distinctions in their order — Jaredites, Nephites, and the later Lamanites, but he does not use the same names. 
 Italy gets Fiume after all, and even more than she asked at first, notwithstanding the opposition of the American delegates at the Paris peace conference which has caused so much trouble. Paris, France, is described by reputable authorities as being "the loveliest, wickedest, crudest place in the world for young girls visiting there." And this is "bleeding France," for which country much sympathy has been expended. Gen. Felipe Angeles, a fullblood Indian of learning and ability, was executed in Mexico on November 26, for opposing the Carranza government. A few days later, Francisco Villa executed nearly 600 Carranza soldiers as an act of vengeance. Miss Anne Scott, aged 35, of New York, has been elected president of the Bantam Ball Bearing company, a million dollar corporation. She says that she is now "too busy for matrimony"— and too rich for other than a money-lover. Miss Florence King, president of the American National Women's Association of Commerce, and a lawyer, says that in the present age "women must lead men." Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish, New York society matron, cynically inquires, "Where to?" ' Decency in dancing is being urged up