[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: Eliza R. Snow | Author: Unknown]

		ELIZA R. SNOW. 
	The name of Eliza R. Snow is familiar
to all Latter-day Saints at home and
abroad and the work she accomplished, and
even more the hymns she has written will
make her fame a living link in the his-
tory of the “Mormon” people forever. The
one hymn, “O my Father,” would, if she
had written no other, keep her memory
green in the hearts of the Saints. 
	The sisters in the Church, young and old,
revere her memory, and accord her honor
and gratitude.

[Column 2]
	It has been customary for her friends since
her demise, to recognize in some way the
anniversary of her birthday. 
	On January 21st, this year, the Gen-
eral Officers and members of the Board of
Directors of the Relief Society met at their
new headquarters in the Bishop’s Building.
It was the first social gathering in the Relief
Society rooms, and only the members of the
Board were present. 
	A simple, but delicious repast was
served on the large, round table in one of
the rooms adjoining the reception room, the
only decorations being carnations and fern
leaves. When all were seated, the vener-
able and gracious President of the Society
called upon the secretary to ask the bless-
ing. While seated at table the company
engaged in a delightful interchange of rem-
iniscences of the lady whom they had met to
honor. 
	After the banquet the company repaired
to the large reception room where the pro-
gram prepared by a committee was rend-
ered, Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry conduct-
ing the exercises. 
	First, singing “O my Father,” piano ac-
companiment Sister Amy B. Lyman
	Personal Reminiscences by the President. 
Bathsheba W. Smith, who gave a charm-
ing account of her introduction and first ac-
quaintance with “Sister Eliza,” the cele-
brated poet and author. Sister Smith nee
Miss Bigler, knew of her celebrity as a con-
tributor to the “Quincy Whig” a popular
newspaper in those early times of woman
newspaper writers—she described her dress,
lace veil, mitts, etc,, the fine embroidery
being her own handiwork; and at the party
or gathering where they both attended, they
were escorted by two brothers, Frank and
Chancy Higbee, fine young men. Altogether
the remembrances given by Sister B. W. 
Smith were pleasing and savored of the
early days in Nauvoo. 
	Reading from Sister Eliza’s poems by Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams came next and was
well chosen. It was a selection from Volume
II, entitled “Confidence.”
	Thoughts about Sister Eliza R. Snow, by
Sister Jane S. Richards, who was not pres-
ent, but sent a message saying that Sister
Eliza had been everything to her, and she
joined with us in honoring her memory. 
	Question: “What particular trait in Sister
Eliza’s character appeals most to you? an-
swered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, “Her
implicit faith in the Gospel, endurance and
fortitude under trials, her great nobility and
grandeur of character and remarkable mor-
al courage in standing true to her convic-
tions, even if she stood alone.”
	“Sentiment from Poem,” Sister Carrie S. 
Thomas gave a few lines from the poem,
“Evening Thoughts, or What it is to be a
Saint.”

	“It is no trifling thing to be a Saint
	In very deed, to stand upright nor bow,
	Nor bend beneath the heavy pressure of
	Oppressiveness, to stand unscathed amid
	The raging storm of persecution, ete.”

	The next on the program, “Relate, some
striking characteristics of Sister E. R.
Snow,” by Sister Julina L. Smith—who was
not present, and therefore excused. 
	Question: ‘‘Do you consider Sister Eliza’s
character unique among ‘Mormon’ women?”
Sister Emily S. Richards. Her remarks
were mostly relative to her acquaintance
with Sister Eliza in her young married life,
the encouragement she had given her to
enter public affairs, and also to make use of
spiritual gifts and blessings.


[Column 1]
	“Personal reminiscences” by Aunt Emm.
Wells, who gave a few rather uncommon
bits of ancient history, and read an original
poem written for the occasion, “A Quest and
Message.”
	“Reading from poems, Sister Elizabeth
S. Wilcox—“Bury me Quietly when I Die,”
which Sister Eliza wrote purposely for her
funeral services. It was set to music and
sung at the funeral.
	“Do you not think Sister Eliza was an
ideal Priestess in the House of the Lord?”
Sister Emma S. Woodruff. The response
was brief, but in substance she  gave her
views of the woman as very devotional with
most exalted ideas and sentiments and in-
tensely religious, certainly expressing an
ideal Priestess.
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Rebecca N.
Nibley, who was excused, being absent.
	“Reminiscences,” Sister Susan Grant, who
gave personal recollections of old times of
traveling with Sister Eliza across the plains
in 1847— and the winter following, when
they lived in the fort on Pioneer Square.
	“Aunt Eliza in the Lion House,” Phebe
Young Beatie who gave very amusing inci-
dents about the life of the children in that
famous home, of her girlhood, of Aunt
Eliza helping with motherless little ones, the
descriptions were vivid, and graphically
told.
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Sister Minnie
James. The poem she had selected had
been given by Sister Wilcox, and therefore
she would refer to her intimate association
with Sister Eliza, her frequent visits to her
mother at their old home and gave one very
remarkable instance of the gift of healing
when she was very much afflicted and had
been instantly healed. Sister Eliza and
some of the other sisters, whose names she
mentioned, administered to her.
	“What particular work of Sister Eliza’s did
most for women?” Sister Julia P. M. Farns-
worth.
	After summing up the many lines of work
Sister Eliza engaged in for the benefit of
woman and humanity, Sister Farnsworth
gives the following as the greatest:
	“Sister Eliza’s every effort, all her talents
were directed and dedicated to the spread of
the Gospel, to give light and strength to
God’s children in need of spiritual food.
Therefore, she has left to us a heritage, an un-
sullied record, an unimpeachable testimony
of her sublime faith of far greater value than
any other gifts, or all other attainments the
world can ever bestow.”
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Sister Harriet
B. Harker, another absent member.
	“As I remember Aunt Eliza,” Sister Alice
Merrill Horne, who gave vivid recollections
of Aunt Eliza’s frequent visits to the Histor-
an’s office, (the home of her grandmother, 
our General President) and calling on Aunt
Eliza in the Lion Houee with messages from
her grandmother; her encouragement of
faith in the children who had a little Juve-
nile Society in the Historian’s Office, of
which she was President; related some of
the experiences demonstrating Aunt Eliza’s
faith in their gifts and powers of adminis-
tering to the sick.
	“Did you ever associate Sister Eliza with
the home life, or was it always as a public
woman that she appealed to you?” Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings, referred to Sister Eliza
with great reverence, and one apart from do-
mestic life; thought her very spiritual, a
Temple worker, one given to sacred things,
like Bible characters, like Mary and Martha,
compared her to Mary, who would rather sit

[Column 2]
at the feet of the Savior and listen to him;
considered her another Mary more than a
Martha. She had often urged her to do
more in the Relief Society, and she some-
times wished Sister Eliza had children and a
family, then she would realize the care of
home.
	“Sentiment from poem,” Sister Amy Ly-
man had a quotation on “Courage,” but the
hour was late and she was excused.
	“What do you consider Sister Eliza’s
greatest gifts,” Sister Annie K. Hardy.
From her remarks we judge that she con-
sidered faith her strongest anchor. Sister
Hardy related some instances of her comfort-
ing her mother in a time of sad bereave-
ment and spoke most interestingly of this
great and grand woman.
	“Recollections,” Sister Annie Wells Can-
non. She could not remembea a time when
she dtd not know Aunt Eliza, and held her
in reverence, associated with Mother Whit-
ney, Aunt Zina and Sister Horne, who were of
ten at her home in her childhood, and after-
wards came almost daily to the Exponent of-
fice, told of her great love for all of them, of
Aunt Eliza’s numerous kindnesses and men-
tioned the early Retrenchment meetings
when she was a very little girl at Sister
Elizabeth L. Thomas’s in the 13th ward
when Sister Eliza had made a wonderful
impression upon her.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry made a few
remarks upon the success of the party and
the sisters sang “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.” Benediction by
President Bathsheba W. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


