[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Features Be | Author: Atkinson]
292  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1957 
observation  and  experience,  we  may  he  receives  —  his  ''taking  in."  This 
have  others'  problems  and  achieve-  is  also  true  with  poets.     The  tools 
ments  for  the  listening.     We  may  we  work  with  are  not  only  pencil, 
learn  as  much  as  anyone  ever  knew,  paper,    typewriter,   and    experience, 
if  we  read  widely  and  wisely  enough,  real  or  imagined.  We  need  a  knowl- 
The    Bible,    other    poets'    poems,  edge  of   rhythms,   of  language,   of 
travelogues,     and     biographies     are  verse. 
doorways    to    otherwise    impossible  Rhythm  is  with  the  child  from 
adventures.    And  when  we  are  thus  the  beginning,  and  all  life  on  earth 
filled,  we  may  give  forth.  is   set  to   one  kind   or  another  of 
Poetry  must  be  a  labor  of  love,  regularity,    from    the    turn    of   the 
for   this   day  seems   to   offer   little  seasons    or    the    ebb   and    flow    of 
appreciation,    and   therefore,    slight  ocean  tides,  to  our  patterns  of  sleep 
demand  for  what  has  been  called  and  waking,  our  stride,  our  pulse 
the  stepchild  of  the  arts.     Yet  we  beat.     The  rhythms,  or  meters,  of 
who  work  at  poetry  find  reward  in  poetry,    then,    are    as    natural    as 
the  enrichment  of  our  own  minds  breathing.     But  it  is  the  poet's  re- 
and  lives,  the  increasing  of  our  own  sponsibility  to  know  —  and  to  use 
powers  of  appreciation,  the  satisfac-  most  effectively  —  the  meters  de- 
tion  of  contributing  some  coin,  how-  veloped  and  named  by  our  predeces- 
ever  small,  to  the  wealth  of  human  sors:     iambic,     trochaic,     spondaic, 
wisdom.  dactylic,     amphibrachic,    anapcstic, 
and  many  variations. 
pOETRY  is  a  labor  that  demands  In  free  verse  cadence  is  empha- 
its  share  of  sacrifice,  as  does  any  sized  —  a  flow  of  words  usually 
creative  effort.  It  demands  fine  sensi-  pleasantly  rhythmical  yet  with  no 
tivity  to  the  beauty  and  the  ugli-  regularly  stressed  syllables, 
ness  around  us.  It  demands  great  Language,  of  course,  is  our  use 
receptivity  of  moods,  ideas,  joys,  and  of  words.  The  words  we  choose  may 
hurts.  It  demands  time  —  hours  be  quite  simple,  or  complex  —  and 
we  may  feel  should  be  devoted  to  either  can  be  used  effectively  in 
cleaning  house  or  canning  fruit,  or  poetry,  though  the  choice  should 
mending  socks  and  levis.  Frequent-  be  consistent  in  any  one  poem, 
ly  a  compromise  can  be  effected  Every  poet  ought  to  select  each 
here,  the  children  helping  with  word  for  truest  tone  and  perspective 
chores,  which  is  also  good  for  them,  of  expression.  This  will  not  always 
or  the  time  spent  on  these  duties  be  the  factual  word;  it  will  frequent- 
used  simultaneously  for  turning  over  ly  be  one  that  in  prose  might  have 
old  conclusions  and  receiving  new  some  other  meaning.  We  might 
inspiration.  The  point  is:  to  write,  write:  "All  the  tiny  insect  eyes," 
you  must  write .  And  you  must  do  but  a  moth's  eyes  glow  ruby  red  in 
it  now.  There  is  no  other  time,  and  lamplight,  so  we  extend  the  image 
poetry  ideas  set  aside  for  someday  to  include  all  these  little  creatures, 
may  never  be  written.  and    say,    "All    the    tiny    jewelled 
How  well  a  child  communicates  eyes"      (From      "While     Sunmier 
depends  on  the  extent  and  sureness  Sings,"   The  Rdid  Society  Maga- 
of  his  explorations,  the  instruction  zine,  June   1955)-     It  might  have

THE  GIFT  AND  THE  GIVING— OF  POETRY 
293 
been  even  better  to  say  ''jewels  of 
eyes/'  thus  eliminating  an  adjective. 
Adjectives  so  often  become  mere 
''padding." 
Sometimes,  in  the  constant  search 
for  new  expressions,  the  poet  per- 
haps tries  too  hard,  and  his  poem 
will  not  be  understandable  to  any 
reader;  or  it  may  be  laughable  where 
humor  was  not  intended.  A  poem 
printed  in  a  century-old  book  says: 
I  made  a  posie,  while  the  day  ran  by: 
Here  will  I  smell  my  Temnant  out,  and  tie 
My  life  within  this  band  .... 
(ItaKcs  mine). 
Or,  secretly  or  unconsciously 
doubting  his  poem's  clarity,  a  poet 
may  add  an  explanation  or  a 
"moral."  If  this  happens,  he  should 
re-examine  the  whole  poem,  reword 
where  necessary,  and  so  present  the 
message  with  no  glaring  label. 
npHE  forms  into  which  we  may 
set  our  ideas  are  so  many  and 
varied  that  probably  no  one  of  us 
will  ever  try  them  all.  For  less  ex- 
perienced verse  writers,  I  would  sug- 
gest working  first  with  the  simple 
ballad  or  lyric,  the  sonnet,  and  per- 
haps terza  rima  (less  difficult  than 
it  sounds). 
The  ballad  is  probably  easiest, 
with  its  four-line  stanzas,  the  first 
line  in  each  stanza  rhyming  with 
the  third  line,  the  second  with  the 
fourth.  The  ballad  is  usually  iambic 
meter,  which  seems  the  most 
natural  for  the  English  language. 
This  form  is  most  often  used  for 
lyric  verse,  which  has  a  "singing" 
quality.  A  "four-three-four-three" 
pattern  of  measured  beats  is  not  dif- 
ficult to  follow,  and  may  be  varied 
by  an  extra,  unstressed  syllabic  oc- 
casionally, thus  avoiding  the  "sing- 
song" of  nursery  rhymes  and 
doggerel.  It  is  not  the  total  num- 
ber of  syllables  that  controls  line 
length,  but  rather  the  number  of 
accented  syllables. 
Most  readers  arc  familiar  with  the 
sonnet,  the  fourteen-line  pattern 
used  so  beautifully  by  Shakespeare, 
Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning,  and 
Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay.  Its  five- 
stress  iambic  meter,  its  rhyme 
schemes,  most  popularly  "A  B  A  B 
CDCDEFEFG  G,"  offer  ex- 
cellent challenge.  And  some  of  the 
loveliest  poems  of  our  language  are 
in  this  form.  But  one  word  of  cau- 
tion: sonnets  can  be  habit  forming, 
and  it  might  be  a  good  idea,  if 
poems  seem  always  to  begin  as  son- 
nets, to  break  the  rhythm  deliberate- 
ly and  try  another  pattern,  just  for 
added  experience. 
Terza  rima  is  a  pattern  of 
three-line  stanzas,  with  interlocking 
rhymes  (A  B  A,  B  C  B,  etc.)  and 
a  concluding  couplet.  It  is  often 
fourteen  lines,  like  a  sonnet,  but 
can  be  shorter  or  longer. 
A  good  book  on  poetry  technique 
will  describe  many  other  "fixed" 
forms,  which  are  always  good  prac- 
tice to  try,  if  only  that  one  may 
then  better  appreciate  other  poets' 
work.  And  remember  that  almost 
any  of  the  principles  of  poetry,  once 
thoroughly  mastered,  may  be  "bent" 
or  even  broken,  if  it  is  done  skill- 
fully and  to  purposeful  effect. 
Free  verse,  often  mistakenly 
thought  to  be  the  easiest  to 
write,  is  as  exacting  as  any  other, 
sometimes  more  exacting.  While  it 
may  ha\'e  cadence,  for  instance,  it 
must  not  have  meter  —  and  how 
slyly  an  iambic  line  can  slip  in,  or 
the  poetic  idea  degenerate  into 
prose!  And  how  easy  it  is  to  get  on

294 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1957'' 
a  tangent  to  nowhere!  Though  the 
modern  idea  is  to  suggest  rather 
than  to  tell,  allowing  the  reader  to 
participate  in  this  creative  venture, 
the  poet  should  not  lead  his  part- 
ner into  a  morass  of  abstraction  and 
there  leave  him  without  even  a  map. 
And,  as  Clement  Wood  once  wrote 
me:  'The  choice  of  the  free  verse 
form  leaves  no  excuse  for  less  than 
the  perfect  word."  Note  that  word 
''form."  Like  all  freedoms,  free 
verse  requires  almost  more  discipline 
than  any  rigid  form.  Without  dis- 
cipline in  poetry,  as  in  life,  there 
can  be  only  chaos. 
The  gift  of  life  is  invitation  to 
many  kinds  of  poetry.  We  who 
choose  to  work  and  play  with  words 
might  do  well  to  heed  this  admoni- 
tion, found  in  a  newspaper  column 
some  time  ago:  ''Whatever  talent 
you  possess  is  God's  gift  to  you. 
What  you  do  with  it  is  your  gift 
to  God." 
Above  and  beyond  our  own  needs 
of  expression,  our  personal  ambi- 
tions, therefore,  shall  we  not  offer 
to  the  Lord  our  most  sincere,  most 
careful  effort? 
SOME  HELPFUL  BOOKS  FOR  POETS 
First  Principles  of  Verse,  by  Robert 
Hillyer,  $2 
How  to  Revise  Your  Own  Poems,  by 
Anne  Hamilton,  $1,50 
Writing  Light  Verse,  by  Richard  Ar- 
mour, $2.  (The  Writer,  Inc.,  8  Arhngton 
Street,  Boston  16,  Mass.) 
Complete  Rhyming  Dictionary  and 
Poets'  Handbook,  by  Burgess  Johnson, 
$3.75  (Harper  and  Brothers,  49  East  33rd 
Street,  New  York  16,  New  York) 
How  to  Write  a  Short  Story 
Mary  Ek  Knowles 
HAVING  been  a  beginning 
writer  myself,  I  know  the 
many  problems  which  con- 
front you  new  writers  or  would-be 
writers  for  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine. You  have  a  burning  within 
you,  a  great  urge  to  tell  a  story.  You 
see  something,  or  you  hear  some- 
thing, or  some  incident  occurs  in 
your  life  and  you  know,  'That 
would  make  a  good  story."  And 
yet  when  you  try  to  put  your  idea 
on  paper  you  find  difficulty  in  ex- 
pressing yourself. 
I  have  been  in  that  predicament 
myself.  I  still,  at  this  late  date,  find 
myself    limited,    because    a    writer 
never  learns  everything,  and  each 
story  is  a  challenge,  a  problem  which 
must  be  solved  in  such  a  different 
and  fresh  way  that  it  will  achieve 
publication. 
I  cannot  tell  you  how  to  become 
a  writer.  No  one  can.  But,  per- 
haps, if  I  pass  on  to  you  some  of 
the  things  I  have  learned  from  ex- 
perience, I  can  help  you  get  through 
the  first  agonizing  stages. 
First,  the  beginning  writer  should 
think  seriously  about-  the  choice  of 
subject  matter.  It  must  be  subject 
matter  with  which  he  is  familiar 
or  the  story  will  have  the  dull  thud 
of  a  counterfeit  coin.     Remember