[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Features | Author: Magazine]
it  now.  There  is  no  other  time,  and  lamplight,  so  we  extend  the  image 
poetry  ideas  set  aside  for  someday  to  include  all  these  little  creatures, 
may  never  be  written.  and    say,    "All    the    tiny    jewelled 
How  well  a  child  communicates  eyes"      (From      "While     Sunmier 
depends  on  the  extent  and  sureness  Sings,"   The  Rdid  Society  Maga- 
of  his  explorations,  the  instruction  zine,  June   1955)-     It  might  have

THE  GIFT  AND  THE  GIVING— OF  POETRY 
293 
been  even  better  to  say  ''jewels  of 
eyes/'  thus  eliminating  an  adjective. 
Adjectives  so  often  become  mere 
''padding." 
Sometimes,  in  the  constant  search 
for  new  expressions,  the  poet  per- 
haps tries  too  hard,  and  his  poem 
will  not  be  understandable  to  any 
reader;  or  it  may  be  laughable  where 
humor  was  not  intended.  A  poem 
printed  in  a  century-old  book  says: 
I  made  a  posie,  while  the  day  ran  by: 
Here  will  I  smell  my  Temnant  out,  and  tie 
My  life  within  this  band  .... 
(ItaKcs  mine). 
Or,  secretly  or  unconsciously 
doubting  his  poem's  clarity,  a  poet 
may  add  an  explanation  or  a 
"moral."  If  this  happens,  he  should 
re-examine  the  whole  poem,  reword 
where  necessary,  and  so  present  the 
message  with  no  glaring  label. 
npHE  forms  into  which  we  may 
set  our  ideas  are  so  many  and 
varied  that  probably  no  one  of  us 
will  ever  try  them  all.  For  less  ex- 
perienced verse  writers,  I  would  sug- 
gest working  first  with  the  simple 
ballad  or  lyric,  the  sonnet,  and  per- 
haps terza  rima  (less  difficult  than 
it  sounds). 
The  ballad  is  probably  easiest, 
with  its  four-line  stanzas,  the  first 
line  in  each  stanza  rhyming  with 
the  third  line,  the  second  with  the 
fourth.  The  ballad  is  usually  iambic 
meter,  which  seems  the  most 
natural  for  the  English  language. 
This  form  is  most  often  used  for 
lyric  verse,  which  has  a  "singing" 
quality.  A  "four-three-four-three" 
pattern  of  measured  beats  is  not  dif- 
ficult to  follow,  and  may  be  varied 
by  an  extra,  unstressed  syllabic  oc- 
casionally, thus  avoiding  the  "sing- 
song" of  nursery  rhymes  and 
doggerel.  It  is  not  the  total  num- 
ber of  syllables  that  controls  line 
length,  but  rather  the  number  of 
accented  syllables. 
Most  readers  arc  familiar  with  the 
sonnet,  the  fourteen-line  pattern 
used  so  beautifully  by  Shakespeare, 
Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning,  and 
Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay.  Its  five- 
stress  iambic  meter,  its  rhyme 
schemes,  most  popularly  "A  B  A  B 
CDCDEFEFG  G,"  offer  ex- 
cellent challenge.  And  some  of  the 
loveliest  poems  of  our  language  are 
in  this  form.  But  one  word  of  cau- 
tion: sonnets  can  be  habit  forming, 
and  it  might  be  a  good  idea,  if 
poems  seem  always  to  begin  as  son- 
nets, to  break  the  rhythm  deliberate- 
ly and  try  another  pattern,  just  for 
added  experience. 
Terza  rima  is  a  pattern  of 
three-line  stanzas,  with  interlocking 
rhymes  (A  B  A,  B  C  B,  etc.)  and 
a  concluding  couplet.  It  is  often 
fourteen  lines,  like  a  sonnet,  but 
can  be  shorter  or  longer. 
A  good  book  on  poetry  technique 
will  describe  many  other  "fixed" 
forms,  which  are  always  good  prac- 
tice to  try,  if  only  that  one  may 
then  better  appreciate  other  poets' 
work.  And  remember  that  almost 
any  of  the  principles  of  poetry,  once 
thoroughly  mastered,  may  be  "bent" 
or  even  broken,  if  it  is  done  skill- 
fully and  to  purposeful  effect. 
Free  verse,  often  mistakenly 
thought  to  be  the  easiest  to 
write,  is  as  exacting  as  any  other, 
sometimes  more  exacting.  While  it 
may  ha\'e  cadence,  for  instance,  it 
must  not  have  meter  —  and  how 
slyly  an  iambic  line  can  slip  in,  or
