[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Features Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: Pen in Hand Vesta P Crawford]
Qjronfi    I  Lear  and  QJc ar 
The  December  issue  of  1\\q  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  is  a  marvelous  revelation 
from  cover  to  cover,  especially  to  us  who 
are  so  far  from  home,  away  down  here  in 
the  "Land  of  the  Southern  Cross"  half- 
way around  the  world  from  the  beautiful 
edifice  featured  in  that  issue.  I  have 
heard  many  favorable  comments  around 
our  mission,  not  only  from  Rehef  Society 
members,  but  from  the  saints  in  general, 
and  from  missionaries.  Thanks  for  such 
an  inspirational  masterpiece  of  art. 
— Adelphia  D.  Bingham 
President 
South  Australian  Mission 
Relief  Society 
Victoria,  Australia 
I  cannot  refrain  from  expressing  my 
appreciation  and  special  gratitude  for  the 
December  Magazine.  The  front  cover  with 
the  beautifully  colored  photograph  of  the 
building  is  magnificent,  with  the  simple 
elegance  of  its  classic  design.  .  .  .  All  of 
the  Magazine  is  inspirational  and  deeply 
impressive  as  a  symbol  of  the  glory  of 
Latter-day  Saint  womanhood  and  the  ef- 
fective work  of  our  great  Relief  Society 
organization.  The  photograph  of  our  be- 
loved First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
standing  in  front  of  the  plaque  with  the 
words  "You  will  receive  instructions 
through  the  order  of  the  Priesthood  .  .  ." 
was  deeply  impressive,  .  .  .  The  Dedi- 
catory Prayer  given  by  our  beloved  Proph- 
et and  President,  David  O.  McKay,  is  soul 
stirring  and  truly  a  masterpiece  of  lan- 
guage and  thought.  .  .  .  The  editorials  by 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  and  Vesta  P.  Craw- 
ford are  messages  of  heartfelt  gratitude, 
encouraging  love  and  sublime  faith. 
— Emma  M.  Gardner 
Sacramento,  California 
I  always  enjoy  Florence  Dunford's 
stories  in  the  Magazine,  and  have  recently 
delighted  in  Deone  Sutherland's  serial 
"Heart's  Bounty."  It  would  be  hard  to 
excel  the  poetry  of  Christie  Lund  Coles. 
— Harriet  H.  Eliason 
I  loved  the  March  issue  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  and  have  written  a  let- 
ter of  congratulations  to  Vera  H.  May- 
hew  for  her  prize-winning  story  "The 
Slow  Hurry."  Miss  Hulda  Parker,  the  new 
General  Secretary-Treasurer,  is  a  dear 
friend  of  mine.  We  share  the  same  home- 
town. Mrs.  Afton  W.  Hunt,  one  of  the 
new  board  members,  is  a  long-time  ac- 
quaintance. I  knew  her  in  Twin  Falls, 
Idaho,  when  I  was  a  child.  I  was  pleased 
with  their  appointments. 
— Frances  C.  Yost 
Bancroft,  Idaho 
I  would  not  have  missed  the  December 
issue  of  the  Magazine  for  anything.  The
