[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Charlotte Anderson]

Charlotte Anderson Larsen Bernice L. Robbins HARLOTTE Anderson Larsen, appointed to the general board of Relief Society, March 25, 1953, was born in Logan, Utah, to John H. And Annie E. Anderson.
Being reared in a religious and devout home, her love of the gospel developed early, and at an early age she was called to teach in the Primary, and soon to a Primary stake board.
Educated at Brigham Young College and the Utah State Agricultural College in Logan, where she majored in dramatic art and literature, she has thrilled many with her inspiring literary and dramatic presentations in Relief Society and elsewhere.
These talents and training, coupled with her willingness to serve, her love of the gospel, and her devotion to her friends, have made her beloved by all who know her. Her testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel has developed over the years through her work and devotion to the Church, assisted by right-living and right-thinking parents and family. Her father, prominent in Cache Valley business circles, was bishop for many years, stake high councilman, and president of the Swedish Mission.
Married in the Logan Temple to CHARLOTTE A. LARSEN Joseph Reuben Larsen, she is proud to be called mother by three fine sons, Dr. Louis C., John A., Joseph Reuben, Jr., and one daughter, Bernice Robbins, all of whom are active in the Church. Sister Larsen has fourteen grandchildren. Love, devotion, and unity have characterized the Larsen home, and friends and acquaintances alike have found joy and pleasure in her presence.
Active in various Church organizations, she has served in many 376 capacities.
While living in Ogden, she served in the Mutual presidency of her ward, and on the Primary stake board.
Moving to Salt Lake City in the early 1930's, she became active in Mutual in the Yale Ward, and then in the Yalecrest Ward. Her appointment to the general board of Relief Society culminates a long service in Relief Society as literature class leader, social science  class leader, and seven years in the presidency of the Yalecrest Ward Relief Society, where her outstanding contributions to the various phases of the work have endeared her to all who know her.
News of Sister Larsen's appointment will be received with joy and approval by friends and acquaintances alike. Edith Price Backman Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society HE appointment of Edith Price Backman, on March 25, 1953, brings to the general board of Relief Society a woman with a wealth of experience and a rich spiritual background. Her life has been devoted to the work of the Lord, and her testimony of the gospel is staunch and firm. She was born in Goshen, Utah, EDITH P. BACKMAN the daughter of Bishop William Price and Mary Ann Gardner.