[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
friend  made — the  hard  way.  Now,  many  years  and  many  quilts  later,  she  has  evolved 
a  method  whereby  anyone  can  make  a  feather  quilt  in  two  afternoons. 
A  minimum  of  effort  and  material  is  required  to  produce  a  quilt  that  is  light, 
durable,  and  warm  enough  to  guarantee  a  complete  new  sleeping  experience.  One  of 
its  most  valuable  characteristics  is  that  a  feather  quilt  provides  adjustment  to  indi- 
vidual bodily  temperature,  even  though  people  of  different  natures  are  sharing  its 
comfort. 
But  to  do  and  be  all  the  things  mentioned,  the  entire  quilt,  feathers  and  material, 
must  not  weigh  over  five  and  one-half  pounds. 
For  the  cover,  any  material  that  is  featherproof  is  acceptable.  A  material  recom- 
mended is  Bohemian-type  cotton  ticking,  because  it  is  closely  woven  and  finely  twisted. 
This  helps  to  make  it  featherproof —  and  featherproof  it  must  be!  However,  if  ob- 
tainable, there  is  a  featherproof  sateen  that  makes  a  lovely  quilt.  The  Bohemian  tick- 
ing comes  in  plain  colors,  usually  pale,  or  a  dainty  floral,  or  stripes. 
For  a  quilt  seventy-two  inches  wide  and  two  and  one-half  yards  long,  ten  yards 
of  material  are  necessary. 
Domestic  or  wild  fowl  feathers  may  be  used.  Should  you  desire  to  wash  the 
feathers,  they  can  be  cleaned  by  putting  them  in  a  cloth  sack  and  washing  them  auto- 
matically. This  technique  apples  to  the  completed  quilt,  also.  It  is  not  advisable  to 
wring  the  feathers  or  quilt  through  a  wringer.  It  is  also  suggested  that  twice  as  much 
soap  be  used  for  feather  washing,  as  for  ordinary  suds. 
To  begin  the  feather  quilt  construction,  cut  your  ten  yards  of  material  in  two. 
That  will  give  you  two,  five-yard  lengths,  thirty-six  inches  wide.  Sew  these  lengths 
together  to  make  the  seventy-two-inch  width,  then  fold  lengthwise.  You  now  have 
the  covering,  top  and  bottom,  for  your  quilt,  with  one  end  closed  (the  fold),  and  one 
end  open.    Turn  under  the  edges  of  the  quilt  at  the  open  end  and  pin. 
This  next  step  is  important.  It  insures  a  smooth,  even  quilt,  free  from  puckers 
or  tucks.  On  the  sewing  machine  stitch  up  the  center  of  the  quilt.  Use  for  all  your 
sewing  ordinary  sewing  thread  number  fifty  or  sixty.  Do  not  puncture  your  material 
any  more  than  necessary,  so  as  to  protect  its  featherproofness.  After  making  the  cen- 
ter seam,  and  parallel  to  it,  chalk  off  and  pin,  from  the  center  both  ways,  six-inch  wide 
strips.  Turn  under  the  edges  and  stitch  together  at  each  side.  On  this  size  quilt,  there 
should  be  approximately  eleven  strips.     These  strips  will  form  the  long  narrow  tubes, 
Page  405