[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: The Father in FieldFrontispiece]

No Wonder We Love Him!

Edith Smith Elliott
[Daughter of President George Albert Smith]
am Member, Relief Society General Board

HEN we contemplate the \¢ widespread meaning of the six-letter word father, we are somewhat astonished.
Aside from the dictionary definition, its use has encompassed conditions, movements, and institutions. In feudal times the lords and barons had paternalistic authority over their vassals.
Many religious groups use the word father for those who teach or counsel their members. The term founding fathers has been used for those whose contributions form the framework of institutions whether political, economic, or religious. We refer to George Washington as the "Father of our Country." We honor him for his foresight in establishing democratic principles that have lasted in our country since its infancy. 'Thomas Jefferson was the "Father of the Declaration of Independence," and James Madison the "Father of the United States Constitution." To the Negro, Abraham Lincoln is the "Father of Freedom." Simon Bolivar and Jose de San Martin were the "Revolutionary Fathers" of South America who were responsible for freeing their countries from Europe.
Most political groups have a filial feeling toward their founders and organizers. | The different inventors are given the title of father of their invention.
Examples are the Wright Brothers, fathers. Of the airplane; Alexander Graham Bell, father of the telePage 366 phone; and Eli Whitney, father of the cotton gin.
Eminent scientis

ts such as Pythagoras, Louis Pasteur, Einstein, and Lister, all bear the name of father of their particular contributions. As individuals, however, our first experience with the word father is a very personal one—our own dear father. For each of us he holds a very special place. 'To me my Father had all of the attributes that endear a father to his daughter. He fulfilled all of my expectations of fatherhood. We were not a large family.
There were only three children. If each of us could write a biography of him separately, I am sure that the reader would be convinced that we all shared the same love and appreciation for him. As tiny children we looked upon him as our protector. He was tall in stature, confident, and forceful. We felt the safety of his being between us and any fear, harm,
