WORK AND BUSINESS MEETING
North Sanpete Stake (Mrs. Virginia W. Madsen): In the spring of 1924 we were given the opportunity of having a department in our union meetings for work and business, and as a result of this and other efforts, interest in the work and business meeting has been greatly revived. The second counselor, with two other stake board members, was given charge of this work. As a beginning we visited all the wards in the stake. This served as a survey of the work being done and gave a working basis for the future. We began by adopting a stake slogan: "Every ward a bazaar, and each ward the best." To assist the wards in working this out, we adopted an apron day, and asked each ward to bring to union meeting a finished apron and enough patterns of it to supply each ward in the stake. At this meeting eleven out of fourteen wards responded. Two contributions came from the stake board, and each ward was supplied with thirteen patterns, only one pattern being duplicated. Twelve finished articles were exhibited, all different, giving new ideas of color, combinations and finishings.
The stake committee had in mind several suggestions for the next work meeting. These were discussed by the ward representatives and the work for the next meeting planned. Samples of laces, edgings, etc., were supplied. At the present time the wards in the stake have at their disposal a variety of children's clothing, novelties for bazaars, Christmas gifts, and attractive saleable articles for the bazaar. We are proud that eleven out of fourteen wards held bazaars in 1925. Those not holding them were small wards of from thirteen to fifteen members. Many wards held work meetings week after week during the Summer.
After this experience, the idea prevailed that living up to the slogan was too much for each year, so the committee thought each ward might hold a bazaar every other year, and where there is more than one ward in a community, the bazaars might be held alternately. We sent cards to the wards asking them what benefits they had received. They answered that they had been benefitted by the exchange of patterns, and that many useful original ideas had been circulated. One ward purchased a roll of paper and gave members the privilege of cutting off the patterns they wished, but keeping the original patterns in the organization. The attendance has been increased greatly, as many come to the work meetings who would otherwise not have attended.

The teachers report one by one in a separate group composed of the president and secretary-treasurer, and then join the work group in which they are most adapted to serve. If the membership could function in the same type of work each time, more could be accomplished and the standard of work raised. We have had wonderful cooperation in our work meeting program. Our attendance at union meetings has been from 50% to 75% during 1925, although the stake is large and the ward representatives have to travel long distances. The wards which sent representatives regularly to union meetings showed the best results in the ward work. The committee in charge of work meetings can do much to stimulate interest if adequate preparation is made before the meeting begins. In some wards the work committee prepared a finished article after the pattern to be distributed and worked upon, and this stimulated interest in the work at hand. This finished sample could then be kept by the ward for the bazaar. If the work committee would have articles cut out of the different materials being sewed, more could be accomplished at work meetings. It is also a good plan to have a sub-committee in charge of each kind of work to be done—fancy work, quilting, rag rugs, remodeling, etc.
We feel that we have only made a beginning. Our idea to get away from a set program of carpet rags and quilt blocks has functioned in the wards. We are not discouraged but realize that work and organization on our part is the only avenue to success. A definite general outline would help the work, but we realize that types of work must be arranged to suit the various localities and wards in the Church. I feel that organization and preparation are the things that