GENERAL SESSIONS Morning Meeting, April 3, 
 WILLIAMS Is is indeed a privilege to have this opportunity of greeting you again in the general session of our semi-annual Relief Society conference. Your faces look very dear to me this morning, and I am delighted that it is my privilege as well as yours to meet so many who are actively engaged in the work of the Relief Society. I think that our hearts cannot be filled with sufficient gratitude to our heavenly Father for the blessings he visits upon us during our lives, for the good things that he puts into our hearts to do, and for the spirit and energy we have to go forward and perform our duties in a measure to our own satisfaction and to the satisfaction of those who are our friends and neighbors in the communities where we live. I believe that during the past six months the Relief Society has made very satisfactory progress. From the information which comes to us from the various sources we believe that the work is increasing in interest to the individuals and to the communities and that many women who heretofore have not been identified with this organization are becoming interested. This is an organization of mothers, and as mothers we should be examples to those in the communities where we live. Our lives should be an open book that those who are around us may read the pages day by day and may know that we are endeavoring through the inspiration of our heavenly Father to do his will and keep his commandments. As a General Board our sincere prayers are constantly with the organizations of the Church, both at home and abroad, in the stakes and the missions, and our love and sympathy go out to those women who are laboring so hard to bring together the women in interest and in love, to teach them the principles of the gospel and to help them live nearer their heavenly Father and to help them to have his Spirit to guide and direct them. As many of you know, this is the quinquennial of the organization of the present General Board, and we have felt that it was proper that the members of our board should have the opportunity of presenting to you some of their sentiments in regard to the work in which they are engaged. The day will therefore be occupied principally with words of love and greeting to you from members of the General Board. We hope that President Heber J. Grant will be with us this afternoon, that he may give us his approval and benediction on the work we are endeavoring to do. RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE 
 ROBISON Many of you will remember that three years ago this spring we were speaking of sustaining law, and four laws, the curfew law, the quarantine law, the cigarette and the prohibition laws, we pledged ourselves to sustain. I am sure every one of us here has just as much loyalty to these laws now as on the day we stood and signified that we would support them, but there is much progaganda abroad against prohibition and the thought has come to me, "I wonder if we are being affected by this." It was prohibition that gave trouble to the liquor interests, but it was the public sentiment back of the prohibition that was the means of throwing the missile. Now the anti-prohibitionists feel that the only thing to do is to change public sentiment, which they are seeking to do by the propaganda which is being given out. Honorable citizens will tell you that prohibition takes away our personal liberty, but there is no law enacted by the government that does not take away personal liberty. We cannot take other people's property, burn it, or shoot on the public streets. There is not time to speak on the eighteenth amendment, or the fact that it took seventy years of earnest effort by the people of the United States to put it into the constitution, but it is there, and we should be law-abiding citizens. The propagandists tell us that prohibition is driving the young people to the use of narcotics, and this idea was so universally promulgated throughout the United States that the government appointed a commission to investigate, and this commission found that it has had no_ effect upon the use of narcotics. People think that prohibition is a failure because they say anyone can get liquor. I wonder if there is a person in this house who knows where she could get liquor. Compare that with the time before prohibition when you could not walk down one block of any city without having saloon doors open and drunken people reeling out upon the side walk. Then the anti-prohibitionists say if people could have light wines and beer they would not drink. But that did not prevent people from drinking before prohibition. Recently Mr. Raymond Robins lectured in Salt Lake and he said that in Australia he had seen more drunken men and women than he had ever seen before in his life. In Whitechapel, London, the same condition exists. Alan Benson said he stood outside of a public house in the Strand in London and saw more drunken people than he had seen in the United States in a year. There is a cry that there are so many drunken automobile drivers, that there are sO many more arrests for drunkenness than there were before the war. In 1914 there were not one hundredth part of the number of automobiles that there are now. Then, too, drunkenness was 
 not a cause of arrest. It was only disorderly conduct. Now, any drunk is arrested. We are making history today just the same as people did in the beginning of our country. You will remember how the people stood for liberty, demanding it from the English government, and how they would not pay the exhorbitant tax on tea. In Boston now people take you to Faneuil Hall and show you where those patriots congregated. Those men threw the tea into the harbor. In the list of signers to the protest against the high tea tax, there was a long list of women's names sent in, and they said "We cannot defend as you men do, but we will stand back of you, and we will not drink tea." It was, perhaps, not the tea they objected to, but the principle back of the objection. What would this country be today if those people had not stood for what they considered right? I am wondering if we realize the ugly name given to people who took tea in those days?tea which was smuggled in after the action referred to was taken. They were called traitors. The women of the Latter-day Saint Church have two standards to maintain?the standard of the nation and the standard of the Church. In a hundred years time will we be classed in history as patriots? Our Father in heaven revealed to Joseph Smith the Word of Wisdom, and we were told that strong drinks were not for man, and ever since that time the authorities of the Church have stood solidly in favor of prohibition. So the women of the Church have a double duty to perform. I pray that you will not listen to this propaganda, and that you will use your influence with your brothers and sons and husbands that they may not speak disrespectfully of this law. May we have the courage of those fine patriotic mothers of our country who stood for the principle and who encouraged the men in their work, is my prayer. MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY I want at this time to express to you my grateful appreciation for the privilege that is mine to work in Relief Society with you. To come in close contact with so many women, all engaged, unselfishly, in working to make conditions better, is certainly an inspiration, and I know of no work that will bring us closer together and inspire us with greater love for each other than this. Ever since the Relief Society was first organized it has included many of the best women of the Church, women who are willing at times almost to neglect their own in order to render service to those in greater need. There is a great responsibility resting upon the parents of the Church today as there always has been. Indeed we hear much of the responsibility of the mother; that she must begin her training before the child is born. She must so order her life that her child may be born with a healthy body and a sound mind. And then comes the responsibility of rearing and teaching that child so that it may grow up to be a credit to society, and in the home the best work may be done. A very young child may be impressed with its own obligation to the rest of the family. He must learn to give and take. He should learn the value of things he uses and owns, and he should learn to respect the rights of the others in the family, regarding the things which are theirs, and not appropriate to himself anything he may want, and justify himself because it belongs to the family. A child should be taught to be helpful in the home, to do his share. Also he should be taught the value of prayer, and a reverence for sacred places, that chapels are built and dedicated to the worship of God and should not be thought of just as one would think of any other public building. It was my privilege, a few months ago, to visit one of the largest churches in Seattle. I was impressed with the perfect order, the undivided attention, the quiet tread, and I could not help making a comparison in my own mind, and it was not complimentary to the behavior of the members of our Church. I don't remember seeing a child in that congregation, however. But all the disturbance in our own religious services is not caused by little children, many older ones are responsible. This subject is very interesting to me, and I should like to see better behavior in our religious services. When I go to a house of worship and the first words I hear from the stand are, "If you will please give your attention, we will commence our services, etc.," I confess I feel a little ashamed and I would like never again to hear a religious congregation called to order. Our Sunday schools are making quite an effort to have perfect order during the sacrament service and often they are quite successful, but just as soon as the service is over and the feeling of restraint is ended, conversation is often resumed. I hope, my dear friends, that you will not think that I have come here today with a spirit of criticism, especially of the children, but we are constantly progressing along other lines of endeavor, and I feel that in this particular there is room for improvement. J assure you that I have great. Respect for parents whose children can be trusted away from home and are welcome as guests in other homes. And there are many such among us. What is more charming and refreshing than contact with a well behaved child? And it behooves us older people to behave well in their presence, that they may have faith in us. It behooves us not to indulge in destructive criticism of our fellows, for, while we may not think they have noticed it, they may surprise us some day by giving it back to us for, "There are no idle words where children are.": 
 If the Relief Society women would be united in working to the end that we might have proper respect paid to sacred places, I'm sure we could accomplish much along this line. I want to say to you, my dear sisters, how much I appreciate my association with the General Board of the Relief Society. Our dear Sister Williams whom we all love and honor, I am thankful that my life has touched hers, for I am better for it. For contact with her counselors, Sisters Knight and Robison, who are so earnestly working always for the blessing of others. For our Sister Lyman who has such great ability and capacity for work, and who is such an asset to the Board; and tor every other member of the Board, I am thankful. MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON I thought yesterday, as I met the lovely women of the Relief Society, and again today the thought comes: you are the toilers at home and in the Relief Society, and your faces are rich with the love of God and man, for you work all the time with faith in God and with a love for humanity in your hearts. I was not with you five years ago this morning. I was sitting beside my little mother, holding her hand, but we were both with you in the Relief Society conference with our hearts and minds, because both of us are really a part of the Relief Society work and have been all our lives. I like to think and believe in my soul that the lovely women of the past who have worked and toiled in the Relief Society are with us in spirit, trying to encourage those who are carrying on this work today, by their presence and by being with them in spirit, if they can't be in person, because we are trying to follow in their footsteps. I would like to recall to you this morning two or three pictures of the past. I think I have been in the Relief Society perhaps as long as any one in this room, joining when I was a little girl and going with my mother when she was a teacher in the Thirteenth ward Relief Society, under the presidency of Sister Rachel Grant (the mother of our beloved president of the Church.) And I used to go with her and carry her basket, as she went around her district, and then I used to be in the Exponent office when Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sarah M. Kimball and Isabella M. Horne and Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith and all those lovely women used to gather there. I remember once hearing Eliza R. Snow say, "We will never make the Relief Society popular until it becomes fashionable." Now when I open the daily newspapers and see a Relief Society meeting announced in the society columns, I know the time has come when the Relief Society has become fashionable and it has become popular. I remember them gathering in these little meetings and discussing in Aunt Bathsheba's day whether they should hold meetings in the Fourteenth ward chapel or in this Assembly Hall. There was quite a discussion because they did not want to seem lost in this big hall. Mother said, "I stand for the Assembly Hall, because I know I will see the day when the Assembly Hall won't hold the women of the Relief Society, and I hope the day will come when the tabernacle won't be any too large for our Relief Society congregation." Under Sister Williams' presidency we have almost realized that, because we know in the afternoons that this hall is not big enough for the Relief Society. There was a little thought dropped yesterday by one of our speakers on the subject of faith. I remember these same sisters gathering in little quiet rooms sometimes in Aunt Bathsheba's parlor in. The old historian's office, sometimes in mother's sitting room, and I remember the spiritual meetings that they used to have and the faith they exercised and how they had the gift not only of prophecy, but the gift of healing and the gift of tongues, and I testify to you, my sisters, that I know that the gifts of the gospel, that existed in the days of Jesus Christ when he walked among the people and they touched his garments and were healed, exist in this Church today. Do not lose your faith. Remember God, and have faith in him. I attended a little gathering of students once at the Brigham Young University and I heard President Harris say, "Science is all right when it is right." There are some things that even scientists do not know. There are things that God can do that even scientists cannot do, and let us not forget that whenever these gifts (and these gifts are with the women as they are with the men of the Priesthood, because we are so closely attached to them) are ours if we have faith enough, and that when we pray for our sick to be healed, and pray with enough faith, that God will answer our prayers and our sick will be healed. I pray that in our hearts we may always have a testimony of these things and a testimony of the truth of the gospel. I am thankful from my heart that I have lived in this day, that I have known these lovely women, and been permitted to associate with them and know and be taught by them these beautiful truths, and I am thankful that I am associated now with Sister Williams and these General Board members, for they are lovely women, and women of God, and they are striving every day of their lives to lead this organization along the paths of righteousness and truth, and I know that they have faith and that if they believe (and I think they do) as our loved ones of the past believed, that they can go among you sisters and you can pray with them and you may have these wonderful gifts of the gospel. May the Lord help us to remember not only the pioneers and the dear ones of the past, but give us faith, knowledge and understanding to carry on the great work of the Relief Society, is my prayer, 
 MRS. JULIA A, CHILD To the commandments that were already known to the people when the Savior came upon the earth, he added another: "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another." He also said, "By love serveth ye one another for all the law is fulfilled in one word. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." As I look upon this audience this morning I know that we are all gathered together for a common purpose, and that common purpose is expressed in one word, love for one another, and love for our fellowmen, for if you did not love your fellowmen, if you sisters who come from long distances were not interested in those with whom you are associated, you would not take this trouble te come here, all these miles to try to get new enthusiasm and new strength to go back to your work. We sometimes take considerable satisfaction in the fact that we are members of the oldest women's organization in the world that has persisted. Justly, we are proud of that fact, and we are proud of the achievements of our association, both in what has been accomplished and also in the members that belong to us. But we must remember this, that the working strength of our association depends upon the qualities expressed by each individuat member of the association. The spirit which unites us all together in the service of mankind, or in the service of love, is of a great deal more importance than any organization, no matter how perfect in its arrangement. Therefore, I say there is one special quality that each must possess to live happily and well and to do his work well. Each one must have within her heart a spirit of love and charity for the other. And that spirit must dominate her life if she would live well. Charity is only another name for disinterested love. It is that great human sympathetic feeling that would pour out goodness upon all people. It is the good Samaritan of the home. It is that which thinketh no evil and is kind, that which beareth all things and endureth all things. It is the feeling of mercy which, when we have feelings one against the other, will forgive seventy and seven times and yet the heart is still filled with pardon. It is that quality that visits the sick, that soothes the pillow of the dying, and drops a tear with the mourner, and then looks after the orphan. It does good to the one that is cast down, relieves suffering of those who are in distress, and preaches the gospel to the poor. Whoever would be loved in this world, whoever would be remembered for the good things she has done when she has passed on, must have this quality in her heart. If we would be happy, we must cherish this virtue. It is needed in all our walks of life. Charity and love are needed in home life, in the business world, in our social life wherever we go, because the peace and the happiness of the world depend upon RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE ? 303 it. She who carries this love and charity in her heart does good when she least expects it, because being possessed of this quality she sends out an influence to those with whom she is associated, and many times good is accomplished when she knows not of it. Sometimes we do not understand one another perfectly and we have not that spirit in our hearts for one another that we should have. Sometimes we feel that we cannot love some one with whom we come in contact, as we should. We see faults in that person. Perhaps the fault is ours as much as hers, and if we would try to become a little better acquainted and understand her motives for doing things, probably we would have that spirit in our hearts, because you all know that when we know each other well we love each other better. Sometimes we find under the roughest exterior, a jewel; sometimes under the most uncouth manners, we find rare traits of virtue. Therefore, I would say we should cultivate one another; have our hearts open to one another, and we will be repaid for it. There is nothing more attractive than one who goes about with this spirit of love and charity in her heart. This principle of charity underlies the whole theory of Christianity and in no life was it more exemplified than in the life of our Savior whom we should try to follow. He expressed the thought that when ye are in the service of your fellowmen ye are also in the service of your God. The thirteenth chapter of Corinthians is based entirely upon this thought of charity and love. One of our sisters told me the other day, she committed that chapter of Corinthians to memory years ago, and she makes a practice of repeating either that or some other chapter or verse from the Bible every day, and she testifies that it makes her life richer and better. I recommend this practice to you. May we as sisters be able to have that love and charity in our hearts for one another at all times. MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND As I stand before you this morning the pride that | feel in my membership in this marvelous organization and the feeling of loyalty to the organization, beginning with the presidency and' my co-workers in the General Board, and extending to the last member of the Relief Society, I would say that the feeling of pride and of loyalty is equalled only by my feeling of humility when I realize my own limitations. That we are of one mind in this service of the Lord is perhaps exemplified in the fact that my mind has traveled exactly the same lines as that of the other Julia on our board, and when I was trying to think of something that I might express briefly to you this morning, I thought of the same things that have made the special appeal to her and been so beautifully expressed, Also the words of Sister Cannon and Sister 
 Empey and Sister Robison, show that we are all of one mind in this great organization. Yesterday one of our speakers said that if we were to be successful teachers, the first requisite was to have a clear understanding of our objectives and perhaps that is the reason for our great success in the Relief Society work. I believe that as an organization we have a very clear perception of these objectives. And I have thought that if it were only possible I should like to just say what they mean to me?the objectives of the Relief Society. I have been turning over in my mind many thoughts and I cannot get anything to stay with. Me except the words of Henry Drummond when he said, "We speak much of peace in heaven. Christ spoke much of peace on earth. We speak much of love of God. Christ spoke much of love of men." It seems to me that these two thoughts may be combined and expressed as the objective of the Latter-day Saint Relief Society organization. We aim, through the very definite and practical phases of our work to establish peace on earth by having proper standards of living in our various communities, and to that end we study our fellowmen and their problems with the hope that we may be able to solve them and to help men to see the light that they may live in wholesome and proper relations one with the other. And the other?well, I feel I cannot say much more. Our love of God has been expressed through our love to our fellowmen, and we are told again and again that it is through service to our fellowmen that we are able to express our love to God. I do believe that if there is an organization on earth that exemplifies that principle it is our own. We have that beautiful and sustaining thought that is always with us, that we are ever in the service of the Lord, that we seek his counsel in all things, and that we are soothed in our troubles and sustained in our faith by the great source of all intelligence and of love and of light, and that we do seek them constantly. That we may measure up to the duties and the responsibilities that are ours, that we will not disappoint those who expect much of us, that we will do our part in the great work of the Lord in this day is my humble prayer. MISS SARAH M. McCLELLAND Christ said, "Feed my sheep." I know he realized what that meant when he said that to Peter, "Feed my sheep." What a great task to talk to the mothers in Israel and give them something to encourage them, something faith-promoting, something to make them feel that all their sacrifices are worth while! When I look into your faces I feel you came here to receive a RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE ? 305 message?something to take back to those workers in his great Society that could not be here with us today. I feel very humble in addressing you this morning, but I feel it is a privilege. I want to tell you a few of the things this work has done for me. It has made me feel that our heavenly Father is the One to rely on, yet we ourselves have to be worthy of receiving his Spirit. We have to live worthily, and it takes sacrifice to do this. Weare just human. We are here to be perfected and this work ls to perfect us. God saw the necessity of this great organization and he saw that it was necessary to have this wonderful Society to broaden us to make us more charitable, more loving. A few days ago a girl of fifteen came into my home and told me how they had recently moved into the community, how the father took sick, and the mother and five little children were without food. The children were crying around the mother, and even the mother shed tears, but a knock came to the door and two women came in. They said they were Relief Society teachers and that they came to offer any assistance that might be needed. The little girl said, "We had some supper that night." What would we do without the Relief Society teachers in our Church? I want to say a word about faith. I remember my own experience in the mission field, and I remember one night when an old man came to our meeting hall and asked to have the elders come to his home on a certain night. We wondered what he would want us for. But when the night came we went, although the rain was pouring down. We climbed seven flights of stairs in a tenement house to the room where the old man lived alone. We found him sitting there with a loaf of bread and a bottle of milk, and he asked us to come in and welcomed us. He told us that his wife had died many years ago and that he had reared the family. His youngest boy, who was the pride of his heart, had been unable to withstand temptation, and he had been arrested for taking money, and the old man said that he either had to pay the money back or see his boy sent to prison. He did not have any money, and as he was the street lighter of the town, he did not receive large wages. He explained that he had asked the elders to come to him there so that they might kneel with him in prayer and ask God to open the way so that he would be able to pay the debt. We knelt down together and the elders offered up a wonderful prayer, humble and sweet, and full of faith. We arose and shook hands again and left him and went about our work. Later on, he came into our meeting hall again, and told us the Lord had answered our prayers and that he had been able to save his boy. And his face lit up with such a wonderful light that I thought, how wonderful his faith was! We also have necessity for this great faith. 
 We rejoice when we think that in 1842 the women of the Church saw the necessity of organizing, saw the necessity of performing charitable work, and asked for an organization, and today it has grown to a membership of more than sixty thousand women, working along philanthropic and educational lines. We find in the Doctrine and Covenants that it says the Lord will bless those who work in his vineyard with mighty blessings. He also said that my servants will testify that I am Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was with him, that I am to come. This is the testimony that is growing in the hearts of the mothers. This great work is doing this. It is establishing a bond of friendship that will be carried into the great eternity. James Russell Lowjell has said, "Truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne; but that scaffold sways the future, and beyond the dim unknown, standeth God within the shadow keeping watch upon his own." We know that God is with us in this work, that he is making our work a joy, and that it is a joy to live in this age when the gospel has been revealed in its fulness.
MRS. ELISE B. ALDER
I should like to relate an incident that happened to me since the last October conference. I hope you will take it in the spirit I received it and in the spirit that I have a desire to give it to you. I will read part of Sec. 25, Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning his wife, Emma: "And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my Church; For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." I had read this in preparing something for the 17th of March, as I sat ironing (and by the way, I wish all my sisters would learn to sit down to iron, as it saves your strength and you can iron the finest linen and the hardest shirts if you have a stool of the proper height). I was ironing and was thinking of this and our past work, and I was lost in thought. I am not visionary and I do not dream dreams that are worth while. It seemed that I was in the Tabernacle in thought only, and it was ten minutes after four. I saw President Grant arise and he said, "If we were in a picture show, we would stay until it was out. This afternoon Brother Pratt is going to bear his testimony and he will be until after four o'clock; if there is any one who would like to leave the room, they may leave now." And I was chagrined to see that one woman left the room. (How sorry I was that it was a woman.) Then the scene changed and we were here. Sister Williams arose. She said, "Sister Edward with her choir, with Sister Coray at the
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE ? 307
piano, and Miss Olive Schreiner and students of the stringed orchestra will give to us, "The Heavens are Telling." I heard the sweet strains of the music. I saw Sister Edward arise, and then the choir arose and I heard them peal forth the "Heavens are Telling," and then I saw what seemed to me a multitude of women arise and file out of this room. I turned again and on our beloved president's face I saw such a sad look, and I knew what was in the hearts of all my co-workers here. Again I turned, and down the aisle I saw a personage coming in his majesty and dignity, and I saw and knew who it was. He came until he was about to the center, where I could see his face, and I saw on his face that same sad look that I saw on our president's face, and then he turned a little this way and stretched forth his hands and said, "Oh, my sisters, can you not give me just a little more of your time?" I went to go to him quickly to tell him that we did not realize?I put my iron on the standard, and the thought was gone. How sad I was, my sisters, that I could not have gone to him, if only in thought; and then I realized that I was not worthy, and I shed tears and went on ironing, ironing and learning a poem to say to you when I should be called on again in conference. There are in this congregation women who are sad, who have crosses to bear, and I have learned this for you, and I hope it will do you the good that it does me:
OUT OF LOSS COMES GAIN
I learn, as the years roll round, and leave the past behind, That much I have counted sorrow only proved that God is kind, That many a flower I longed for had a hidden thorn of pain, And many a rugged by-path led to fields of ripened grain. The clouds but cover the sunshine, we must not blame the sun; And the earth shines out the brighter when the weary rain is done. We must stand in the deepest sorrow to see the clearest light, And often from wrongs and darkness comes the very strength of right. We must live through the weary winter if we would value the Spring, And the woods must be cold and silent before the robin sings; The flowers must be buried in darkness before they can bud and bloom, For the sweetest and warmest sunshine comes after the dark and gloom. So the heart from the darkest trials gains the purest joy of all, And from lips that have tasted sadness, the sweetest song will fall. For as peace comes after suffering and love is reward of pain, So after earth comes heaven, and out of our loss comes gain.

MRS. ROSANNAH C. IRVINE
I am grateful to my heavenly Father for my faith in this gospel. I prize more than anything on earth my standing in this Church, for I know it is the Church of Christ. It is a gospel, not only of service, but of love and tolerance. Man is naturally an intolerant being. History is full of instances of intolerance and bigotry and narrow-mindedness. The intolerance that has always confronted our Church is the same intolerance that Jesus met on the earth, and it has been the case with all people all through the ages of the world. It is strange but sadly true that some people who profess a faith in God are the bitterest enemies of those who differ from them in technical form of worship or creed or intellectual advancement. Man, who differs from the animal kingdom only in intelligence, seems to fear that very attribute. Contrary to the word of God that his glory is intelligence, and contrary to the fact that we inherit as our natural birthright a divine power of development and progression, man has stumbled on down through the ages in voluntary blindness and ignorance. In the early days of the Christian era, when the Christians had gained sufficient power to become established as the state church of Rome, they, forgetting the travail through which they had passed, with a ferocity that exceeded that even of their heathen persecutors, turned upon those who yielded anything but blind obedience to the established creed, and persecuted them. Down to the time of the Reformation, when Martin Luther, a Catholic monk, dared to defy his church and question its rigid dominance and bigotry, because of his intellectual and independent research; and because he tried to help the common people to escape from the ignorance and superstition with which they were enslaved, he was renounced and reviled and finally excommunicated from the church. Then he and his adherents, who by the grace of God had gained freedom for which they had suffered, turned about and denounced as heretics and fools all who differed from them. Joan of Arc, that pious and saintly maid, absolutely faithful and childlike in her adherence to her church, was persecuted and denounced as a heretic and witch and turned over to the enemy to be burned at the stake by the church she loved and the people she had saved. The Puritans, escaping from the horrors of persecution and death in their native lands, and entering into unbelievable terrors of an unknown wilderness, visited these same tortures upon others who dared, as they had dared, to think for themselves. Our own dear prophet, within the last one hundred years, was assassinated by a mob of Christian neighbors. It was only within the last century that women were given the comfort of anaesthetics during the pains of childbirth, the clergy, more loudly than any one else con-
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE ? 309
tending that if women's sufferings were relieved at that hallowed hour, the curse of God upon woman would be thwarted. The persecution which we as a people have endured it is best to forget, except as the remembrance helps us to be more tolerant and forgiving, as was our Master. He spoke no word of bitterness or complaint. Even when he hung in agony on the cross, his never to be forgotten words, which have resounded through the ages, are the most marvelous example of forgiveness and love that the world has ever known: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." We are his disciples, and his work is in our hands. Let us thank God in all humility for this privilege of being the chosen people to carry his message to the world, a message of increasing intelligence, increasing love, increasing tolerance. Brigham Young once said in substance, "We may not be the best people on earth, but we have the best gospel." Let us remember that having the best gospel makes it possible and necessary for us to be the best people. There never was so great an opportunity or need for righteousness and love as there is today. The world is in a state of mental and spiritual upheaval torn with schisms and disbelief. As science is going forward with leaps and bounds, it is our duty to keep pace spiritually, that we may carry on the work and prepare the world for his second coming. As members of his Church, his life is our pattern, his precepts our watchword, his cause our cause. If we must be bitter because we have suffered, if his spirit does not fill our hearts with a desire to emulate his example, if we forget his teachings and blind ourselves to the divine light of his life, then indeed we will have lived in vain. I ask God, that we may not only love him with all our hearts and