[Vol13 | June 1926 | Sequence: 10c | Category: Article | Title: General Conference Summary]

e listened with much interest to the testimonies that have been borne. It has been a pleasure to our Board members, as well as to me, to have this opportunity of saying to you just how they feel in regard to the work of the gospel and the responsibility which they have in assisting in carrying on the work among the women of the Church. We feel that We owe a great debt to those noble sisters who were called in the very beginning to lay the foundations of the work of the Relief Society; to Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith who was called from among the other women of the Church to assist in organizing and getting into working order the organization of women; to Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells. We RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE ? 329 remember that the gifts of the gospel were given to these women, and that they were given rights and privileges that it seemed women might never enjoy, and how eagerly the women of the Church at that time embraced the opportunity of identifying themselves with such an organization. When we think of the past we feel that the foundations were well laid, and that our leaders have been filled with the Spirit of the Lord and inspired to do the work at hand. The organization had a wonderful growth, much work was done. The women were brought together in meetings. They spoke in tongues, they prophesied, through their faith the sick were healed, and many were the manifestations that were given to them, and always in their hearts was the desire that they might be instruments in the hands of the Lord in bringing love and truth and peace to their neighbors and to their friends. So the work has gone on for many years?84 years, and we women of today are striving with the same diligence, with the same desire in our hearts to further the truth and to assist our neighbors and friends, and our loved ones as those of the past did, and we feel that the foundations which they laid were so broad and strong that it is easy for us to build upon them and go forward in the work which they loved and desired so much to see advanced and brought to a fuller fruition. Perhaps some of you remember that it is five years ago at this April conference since President Grant and President Ivins came and reorganized the Relief Society General Board. We who were appointed at that time to guide the destinies of the organization have endeavored with all our hearts and with all our strength to have the Spirit of the Lord with us to help us to be leaders to this great band of women who comprise the Relief Society in the Church. We have made mistakes, but they have not been serious mistakes, we hope, and not such that we will not be able to rectify. There has been a very fine advancement in the increase of membership in the society during the last five years. A few more than nine thousand additional women have been enrolled during that period, and we would like to say that many women have become identified with the organization who have in the past felt that probably there was nothing in the Relief Society that would be of interest to them, and whose attention had been claimed by other activities; but we hope and we believe that we have been able not only to retain the membership of our older women but have succeeded in enrolling a large number of younger women. I have in mind one newly organized ward, made up mostly of young people, where many of the young mothers had never attended a Relief Society meeting. If they knew anything about it, it was something their mothers had told them in their childhood days. It has been possible to interest a large group of these young 
 women, and I think probably in that ward there are not more than ten members who are over fifty years of age. Most of the members are young women between twenty-five and forty, who are intensely interested and who come with love and with desire. We are particularly glad that the officers there are able to carry out the work of the organization, including the work and business meeting, which is one of the most popular meetings of the month. We are pleased that the reports come to us of the interest in the theology and testimony meeting and that there seems not sufficient time to give the lesson and to bear the testimony. Sometimes we are led to believe, and we hope it is so, that the theological and testimony meeting is the most popular meeting of the month, and that you who are privileged to bear your testimony, are inspired with the love of the gospel and the Spirit of your heavenly Father, that you are permitted to take part in an organization and in a meeting that is so fraught with spiritual things. During the last five years we have not introduced any new activities, particularly, but we have enlarged on the old activities. I am sure you will be very much interested to know that during the past winter practically one hundred women have received a sixteen-lesson course in home hygiene and care of the sick, conducted by the Red Cross and the Civic Center of Salt Lake City. This work has extended into the county, two stakes asking for the classes to be given in their local communities, and one stake alone sending forty women to receive the benefits of these lessons. The Red Cross, after the course is finished, issues a certificate to the students who have successfully passed the examination given them. We feel that very much benefit has been accomplished by this work from the fact that trained nurses are very scarce, and if in our homes are those who know some of the rudiments of home nursing, we can help our own families and we can help our neighbors' families. And where forty women in a stake go from eight wards in that stake and are enthusiastic over the instruction which they receive and are desirous of passing on the instruction to the women who are in their communities, we feel that great good has been accomplished. Of course, you know that nursing has been one of the primary activities of the Relief Society, and that we have always had some sort of nurse training going on as an adjunct to the organization. Through the Sheppard-Towner work in the state of Utah, in which the Relief Society women have assisted, much good work has been done. Excellent work has been done also in other western states where our women have assisted and cooperated as organizations. The Bureau of Child Hygiene of the state of Utah gives an excellent report of its work with the pre-school child during the RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE ? 331 last three years, and since Relief Society women everywhere have cooperated with the state in this work, I am sure you will be interested in a few items from the report: Number of examinations made of pre-school children 26,105; number of normal children found 6,115; number of defects found 38,719; number of defects corrected 3,085; number of health centers established 121. No doubt reports from other western states where the Relief Society has cooperated would be as favorable. One of the main features in a public health program is the follow-up work which should be done after these examinations are made, and we are bending our endeavors toward the training of public health nurses who may go out into the communities to follow up these defects and help in the correction of them. We feel that our cooperation with the government and with the various state boards of health has been very helpful. We appreciate the place that Dr. Beatty, as the secretary of the State Board of Health has accorded us in calling on us to assist in the establishment of these 121 health centers in Utah. Of course, you understand that this is not entirely a Relief Society activity, that other agencies in the communities are called in, too, and we are pleased to tell you that we receive the credit for being organized in such a manner that we can give immediate help where help is needed in the carrying on of this work. We are pleased to report also that in many localities maternity bundles and chests have been established and are appreciated by the people; 699 of our branches have reported some provision for health and maternity. Through the suggestion of the Presiding Bishopric and also the First Presidency we have established a means of helping the women in our communities in caring, in a more systematic and better manner, for the needy and those who require temporal as well as spiritual assistance. It was Bishop Nibley who suggested to us that we educate members of the General Board so that it would be possible for them to go out into the stakes and carry on institutes in social welfare. There have been five of these institutes held within the last year or two; one in Salt Lake City, with all of the eight stakes participating, one in Burley, two in Palmyra and one in Nebo. Bishop Nibley felt that this plan would train our women so they might, under the supervision of the bishops, go into the families and find out just what the problems are, build up the families, help to provide employment for those out of work, etc. We are now prepared to send out to you women who will assist you in carrying on this work if your stake presidents will arrange for them, and we recommend these institutes to you. I feel impressed to say that I believe it is easier for us to receive the gospel, to be converted to it, than it is for us to live the gospel. But if we have in our hearts always what the Savior 
 did for us, how he came and gave up his life in order that we might enjoy life and happiness, we can bring ourselves to feel that no matter what the sacrifice, no matter what may come to us, we will be true and faithful to the gospel of Jesus Christ, and we will endeavor with all the might we can gain through prayer and the Spirit to our heavenly Father, to live the gospel. That we may do that and that we may have the Spirit of our heavenly Father and our beloved elder brother, Jesus Christ, to be with us always, is my prayer.