			FROM HAWAII.

			LAIE. Oahu, Sept. 30, 1876.
	I have been standing on the porch to-
night looking toward the loved home of my
many, many dear friends and associates and
thinking of the great water lying between
us, and the many changes which may per-
haps take place before we meet again. We
are well and feeling in excellent spirits,
with good feelings toward all mankind. I
am teaching the Laie school, have thirty
odd pupils who seem to be learning very
fast; I am also a pupil learning their lan-
guage, and I fear not a very apt one, "aka
hoas mau" (but I continue to try). Millie
talks very good for the time she has been
here, is quite contented and appears very
much like a native. I like the natives
much better than I imagined I should; they
are very kind to me; and take great pains
in teaching me their language.
	I have had quite an experience since I
come here. I was eye-witness at a death-
scene which took place shortly after our ar-
rival. I had called to take a sick woman
some rice, thinking something nourishing
like that would be relished. I saw she was
struck with death, and told her husband as
much. I had not been in the house more
than half an hour when she breathed her
last, as quietly as if going to sleep; I closed
her eyes and tied her chin, and looked to
see what her parents were doing when a na-
tive sister came up to me with a shroud
which they had been busy preparing against
her death. I assisted in putting it on, and
spread a beautiful "kapa" to lay her on (her
husband never leaving her side;) when all
was ready for her to be seen by her friends,
as many were gathered, I stood looking at
the corpse, when I was almost raised from
floor to ceiling by the most dreadful wailing
I ever heard. I gave one glance about the
room and saw how fast it was filling with
mourners, and will leave you to imagine
how long I was getting home, which is
about a quarter of a mile. They keep their
wailing and feasting up all night. I had
forgotten to tell you that they always pre-
pare a great feast in honor of the dead.
	I have also been a guest at a grand wed-
ding, had the pleasure of eating with the
bride and groom. The food consisted of
"poi" pork and beef, which all ate with a
relish, using fingers instead of knives and
forks.
	I enjoy myself in many ways here, but
nothing compares with our mountain home.
					Sunday, Oct. 1st.
	We have been on the Island four months
to-day. We arrived on the 1st of June, after
seven and a half days at sea. We enjoyed
ourselves a great deal in the same way as
many of our friends before us, by being very
liberal to the sharks. I was very sick the
first three days, in fact I was quite misera-
ble until we landed. We were well provid-
ed with everything for our comfort and one
of the best stewardesses; she was like a
mother to me. I have been to meeting the
most of the day; it is our fast day; we hold
it the first Sunday in each month.
	I want to tell you of our ride in the hills
yesterday, thinking it will show you a lit-
tle how we feel. Brothers Wooley, Molen,
and wives with children, on horse back, took
picnic and went up in the canon to get a
breath of fresh air. We rode native style,
(now don't laugh) as it was safer; riding
over rocks and brush, over hills that looked
impossible for horses to travel, but we found
a nice cool place and better than all a cool

[Column 2]
spring of water. We took with us papers
from home, and read, visited, ate, and some
of us slept, but not your correspondent.
	We are living at the Plantation house. I
am chief cook and house cleaner; I am kept
very busy teaching and keeping house, and
find very few idle moments. My health is
much better here than at home. I believe
I could eat my rations of Irish potatoes, and
pork, beans and cabbage, had I the chance.
Not wishing you to think I suffer at all, for
we live good enough, and what we have we
relish, I can eat quite a meal of meat and
"poi"; we try to have flour on hand all the
time. I will have quite a yarn to spin when
I get home.
	I begin to think we as a people do not
know how to appreciate comforts when we
have them.
						Oct. 7th.
	This is the second day of Conference. I
thought as the mail would leave in the
morning I would finish, I will not be able
to give you the news of to-morrow. I do
not know where Simpson's lot will be cast
in this missionary labor. Bros. Lambert and
Stringam have not been able to get here
for Conference on account of high winds,
which has caused quite a disappointment.
The natives are turning out well and seem
to enjoy the spirit of the Lord. Their fa-
ces glow when they sit and hear our breth-
ren talk. I think this mission has a com-
pany of as good men as you generally come
across. I do think the young men here
have been faithful and performed a good
long mission, and when they get their re-
lease they will not feel to complain.
	Please remember me with much love to
all my friends and acquaintances, not for-
getting Sister Wells and family. Tell Un-
cle Charles I want his prayers now, more
than ever. I am very tired now; there are
eight of our good folks stopping with us,
beside our own family. Bro. Richards
boards with us when at Laie.
	Remember me to all. I will re[---]e as it is
after ten o'clock. Good night, a [-]pleasant
dreams.				JANE E. MOLEN.


