LETTER.

	Some time when I am old and the glory
of the past shall come back to me, to light
up the gray shadows of many years, I shall
see this picture of the Centennial. Not its
booths and bazars, its noisy Turks, its peace-
ful Chinese, its endless throngs, and illimit-
able displays; but this: the sun sending his
lengthened rays across a wilderness of
bloom and shooting myriad arrows of fire
through the lofty oaks, elms and chestnuts
clustering above the Gothic roof of Horti-
cultural Hall. I shall recall the glory of the
grounds when the marvels of the miles of
show-cases have faded out of sight. Lands-
downe Valley, with its glancing rivnlets,
its profuse vines, touched with the first vi-
vid scarlets of autumn, its native giants of
oak and elm, maple and sycamore, is a mar-
vel of beauty that seems cut straight out of
Naure's heart, while a whole letter could
not paint the glory of the gardens. When
I came here the scarlet and rose geraniums,
verbenas, hydrangeas were at their bright-
est. Wandering through the broad inter-
esting avenues, far as the eye could reach,
on and on, the emerald sod was shot with
these broad bands of flaming color; while
beside them—"like moonlight unto sun-
light"—were the softly-shaded beds of
pale yellow, green and white, the pampas
grasses nodding their silvery plumes, the
pale English ivies dappled and white-edged.
Then the tamarisk stretched forth its bright
green wands, and the weigelia waved its
white and scarlet blossoms, and the homely
flowers of home were everywhere beside
our feet. The ragged robin, marigold,
Joseph's coat, larkspur, fox glove, spider
plant, snapdragon, the morning glory, the
clematis, old-man, love-lies-bleeding, the
mourning bride, bergamot, petunias, and
dahlias—all were here, with their memor-
ies of home, childhood, and youth. How
gay they looked one evening, how glad, as
I sat down on a seat by the way, just before
the gates closed. It was then the sun
spread out his rays gathering all this beauty
into his splendor and made my picture for
all time. I came back in the morning, and
"the brightness of their smile was gone
from upland, glade, and glen." In the night
"the frost fell from the clear cold heavens,"
and suddenly the fervor of color was
quenched. The flowers were dead. The
dahlias hung to their blackened stalks. The
long ramparts of bloom that stood so brave
and glowing yesterday, were shriveled and
fallen now. The meek sunlight of these
Indian Summer days draws the subtle
sweetness of the waning year out of these
sepulchers of the flowers. The air is odor-
ous with their dying fragrance. Here and
there a late, late rose still dares to bloom in
the face of the menacing frost. The wax
balls hang amid their crisp leaves. Here
and there a cluster of scarlet berries show
ruddy against a gray back-ground; but the
amber skies are crossed by leafless boughs.
The gay umbrage of the park is sodden un-
der our feet. "The year smiles as it draws
near its death" and it has almost "had its
day"—the great Exhibition.


IT is stated upon good authority that
"George Elliot" has already received $5,-
000 from the Harper Bro's for "Daniel De-
ronda."
	MOTHER: "Now, Gerty, be a good girl,
and give Aunt Julia a kiss, and say good-
night." Gerty: "No, no! If I kiss her,
she'll box my ears like she did papa's last
night."


