SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 18, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In company with my husband and daugh-
ter, I left home on the 11th of Nov. last to
visit my children who reside in the coun-
try, and also to meet with the Relief Socie-
ties in different settlements through which
I might pass, and give them such instruc-
tion and encouragement on the various sub-
jects that are now being brought before the
sisters, as I was capable of doing with the
aid and assistance of my heavenly Father
upon whom I humbly and implicitly rely
for strength. The subjects most dwelt upon
by me in talking to the sisters, were, the
laying up of wheat, the raising and manu-
facturing of silk, sustaining the Woman's
Store and all other home-industries, also to
subscribe more liberally for the Woman's
Exponent, and invited the sisters to take
shares in the publishing of the Woman's
Book. During my journey I met with the
Relief Societies of Beaver, Fillmore, Scipio,
Gunnison, Nephi and Santaquin. In Beaver
the Relief Society has a full lot of land and
a good substantial brick building on it. I
advised them to set out mulberry trees over
the ground, and thus commence the silk-
culture. In all our meetings a good spirit
prevailed, and the people received us every-
where with marked cordiality. The Bish-
ops of the several settlements met with the
Relief Societies in the meetings, imparting
good counsel and encouragment and wish-
ing the sisters success in their united ef-
forts. The sisters everywhere were very
earnest and active in the storing up of
wheat. It is a subject which seems to have
taken hold of the hearts of the women and
they are determined to carry out this coun-
sel of the servant of God. I sincerely hope
that some good may result from my visit to
these settlements; they have not the same
advantages and opportunities that some of
us have, and are anxious to be co-workers
with those who labor for Zion.
	Trusting the seed sown may produce good
fruit in the hearts of those who desire to
keep the commandments of God, and pray-
ing always for the welfare of the Saints at
home and abroad, desiring to live to pro-
mote knowledge among the daughters of
Zion, and to be useful in the work of the

