[COLUMN 1]

Unlike the great cities, toward which the
wretched of all classes tend and in which pov-
erty is seen at all periods, the towns of the in-
terior are generally free from any considerable
share of needy people in prosperous times, but
a change has come over the land, and men who
a year ago would deem it a disgrace to ask for
assistance under any circumstances, are abso-
lutely famishing for the ordinary necessities of
life. Mechanics, too, men in receipt of wages
varying from $2.50 to $3.50 per day at the open-
ing of the Centennial year, are now reduced to
the verge of pauperism, anxious to earn fifty
cents a day if they can get anything to do.
		MEETING OF THE DISTRESSED.
	They talk easily of their distress and no
longer make any effort to hide their poverty,
and at a meeting of their number held the oth-
er night, asking the city authorities to furnish
them with work and bread, some sad stories
were related. The pitiable pictures presented
at their homes are touching, and in some in-
stances would wring tears from the most cal-
lous heart. It is a sad spectacle to see a bro-
ken spirited husband in the midst of his little,
feeble family, for which he is unable to pro-
vide bread, even though their appeals are like
so many daggers to his heart. The patient
mothers invariably seek to stifle their own
grief, and whenever I have called they have
endeavored to hide the poignant features of
their sorrows. But the wan face, and prema-
turely old and haggard looks have told a story
that the eloquence of the sweetest voice could
not gainsay. It is remarkable how patient in
most cases the women have shown themselves
wherever I have been. In the same homes
where despairing men raved incoherently and
cursed corporations and the government, as
well as their own bitter fate there was an air of
quiet resignation and meek submission on the
faces of the women, that was truly heroic. It
is the fact that women endure more in any
great ordeal and endure it better. Where a
burly man will go howling about with a big
sorrow, showing it to his neighbors, a little
woman will set her face against fate and hide
it in her breast. The sorrows that kill men
only bring out the sweetest, noblest natures of
women.
		INDUSTRIES IDLE.
	Various industries of the city are idle, and
will continue so for many months to come.
The extensive iron and steel works of the
Lackawanna Iron and Coal Company, upon
which the poor of Shanty Hill, a thickly pop-
ulated portion of the city, are dependent for
the means of support, have suspended opera-
tion until the 1st of March, and, as a conse-
quence their employees, who at the best of
times found it a difficult matter to sustain
themselves; are fairly dismayed and disheart-
ened at the gloomy prospect. Pinching, pallid
poverty sits by many a fireside to-day, and the
indications are that the coming Christmas
will be the saddest ever experienced in the an-
thracite coal regions of Pennsylvania.
		THE BITTER COLD.
	The recent heavy fall of snow and accom-
panying bitter cold have made the situation
felt more keenly, and the scantily clad and
starving people are reduced to the lowest
depths of despair with not a single ray of hope
in the immediate future to light their footsteps
along the dismal and weary way. The coal
industry, too, has recently been falling off,
and in many of our settlements mining has
been suspended altogether. Merchants and
small dealers who were wont to encourage the
miners and laborers from time to time with
credit, are compelled to refuse them now for

