		A WIDOW'S PARTY.

			S.L. CITY, July, 1876.
						16th Ward.
	Opened by singing, "The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Prayer, by Bro.
Riser. Singing, "We thank thee, O God
for a prophet." Bishop Kesler then made
remarks, expressing his pleasure in meet-
ing with a company of this kind. All pres-
ent are widows with but one or two excep-
tions, and yet not over half of those who
reside in the ward are here. He had never
met on an occasion of this kind before and
it brought a great many reflections to his
mind. Many of the partners of these
sisters had stood by his side and labored for
the cause of Zion. The Lord has a great
work to do in this dispensation; He called
Joseph Smith to do a mighty work. These
sisters husbands, when living, spent a por-
tion of their lives in this work. God has
set up His kingdom as Daniel saw, and the
honest in heart are being gathered from all
portions of the earth, and great is the work
to be performed in connection with our
dead. The wicked will be wasted away
and cut off from the earth, and some of
them are our relatives by blood, and they
cannot be brought out of prison until they
have "paid the uttermost farthing." To
look at this in one way it seems hard, yet
if we view it in another light, it is all right.
In Noah's day the people would not accept
the gospel and were destroyed, but Jesus
went and preached to them in prison, show-
ing that there is an opportunity for pardon
after death, providing the unpardonable sin
has not been committed. We can also be
baptized for our relatives as far as we can
trace their geneaology, and there will be a
great work during the Millennium. And
my sisters your husbands have gone to per-
form a portion of this work. Bro. Brigham
has said when the Temple is built, angels
will come to it and bring the names of those
who wish us to be baptized for them; then
we shall know who are willing to obey the
gospel and we shall in reality be "Saviors
on Mount Zion. What a blessing it is that
we have the privilege to gain celestial glory.
All will not attain it, because they will not
accept the terms; but all will get a reward
according to their works.
	I rejoice that the day has come for the
Lamanites to obey the gospel; and he hoped
the day would soon come when our ene-
mies would have no power over the saints.
	We have met together to-day to have a
social party and to be instructed. We all
carry an influence with us wherever we go
either for good or evil, and we should set
an example in everything as Saints of God
and bind up the broken-hearted and com-
fort those who mourn; it is our duty to do it;
and not seek to pull each other down, and
then trample upon the weak and fallen. I
can realize our surroundings to some extent;
the evil spirits are trying to lead us from
the straight and narrow path, and decoy us
from our duties and they will continue to
try until we are tried as Abraham was; he
was tried as close as was possible for mor-
tal to endure; have any of us been tried
equal to that? The Savior was tried, He
went through the most trying ordeals He
was a wanderer on the earth, and he passed
through these trials in poverty; but as Paul
said "if in this life only we have hope, we
are of all men most miserable." We have

[Column 2]
been cast out from among the world but the
Lord has been with us, and will continue to
be if we are faithful. Many of you sisters
will soon pass through the veil and meet
your husbands, what a joyful meeting that
will be.
	The Lord is very merciful to us, and looks
over many of our weaknesses; and the best
way is for us to be prayerful and do our duty
in all things, both to the living and the
dead. The judgments of God are being
poured out upon the nations; you have only
to read the news to be aware of it; there
will be many calamities this year, and they
will still grow worse; but the Saints should
rejoice for the work of God is progressing,
and the righteous will go onward and build
a Temple unto the Lord, and His glory will
rest upon it for He has promised it.
	You widows may ask what can we do?
Why you can prepare to meet your hus-
bands behind the veil, and let your wills be
swallowed up in the will of God; we have
got to do it before we can come into His
presence. Pray as the Savior prayed, he
prayed and wept too. Call your families to-
gether to pray, and observe the Sabbath
day and not speak evil of your neighbors.
We all have failings, but there is a balm in
the gospel for every ill. Keep the Word
of Wisdom, and observe the duties of to-
day, and not let the sun go down before
we have faithfully fullfilled our daily du-
ties, thus we will be saved each day.
	I exhort you to do these things, so that
you may meet your husbands and Father in
heaven. This is my best wish for you in
the name of Jesus.
	Brother Riser said: I am pleased to meet
with you on this occasion. It is our privi-
lege to meet together often, for we need to
be reminded of things that we would for-
get otherwise; our vision will be extended
if we live in the light of the spirit of the
Gospel. There is a crisis near at hand, and
already men's hearts begin to fail them, the
world has gone to the extreme with wick-
edness, and unless we are faithful we will
not be prepared for what is coming. He re-
lated considerable of his experience both
before and after embracing the gospel, and
bore a faithful testimony to its truth, and
the healing power which he had seen mani-
fested. Said he never regretted the step
he had taken in obeying the gospel. The
prize of eternal life is before the Saints and
if we pursue the path our Bishop has
marked out, we shall be able to meet our
faithful friends who have gone before us.
	I ask God to bless you all in the name of
Jesus, amen.
	Benediction by Brother Riser.
	All present then partook of refreshments
which had been bountifully prepared for
this special occasion, and the season spent
together was one of peaceful enjoyment.
	The company then adjourned to meet 
again.		SARAH CUMBERLAND
								Sec'y.


TO THE LACE MAKERS:—Those who
wish to purchase bobbins for lace making,
can obtain them by sending orders to Mrs.
E. Davis, "Woman's Commission House,"
S. L. City. Bro. Crompton, a bobbin maker
from England, will be ready to fill all or-
ders at a low figure.


ANNA Dickenson seems to have been
warmly applauded in her recent appearance
upon the stage in St. Louis, yet she is se-
verely criticized by newspaper writers and
journalists; they have an idea that she is
too much herself, and does not give suffi-
cient dramatic effect.


