HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Wakefulness at Night.—Take about 20
grains of carbonate of soda in half a glass of wa-
ter before going to bed. The best remedies are
hygiene diet, cold water, exercise, brisk walking
and gymnastic exercise for half an hour before go-
ing to bed.
	To Cure a Felon.—As soon as the part begins
to swell, wrap the part with a cloth thoroughly
saturated with tincture of lobelia, and the felon is
dead. It is said this never fails to cure if applied
in season.
	Another: The following simple remedy is said
by an exchange to be a sure cure. Take common
rock salt, dry it in an oven, then pound it fine and
mix it with spirits of turpentine in equal parts.
Put it on a rag and wrap it round the finger, and
as it gets dry put on some more, and in twenty-
four hours we are assured the felon will be dead.
	And Another: Take half a gill of strong vine-
gar, dissolve in it a teaspoonful or more of salera-
tus; heat it as hot as the flesh can bear; soak the
felon in it as long as desirable. Repeat the ap-
plication as often as the pain returns, and a cure is
certain. This remedy must be applied in the first
stages, as it is of no avail after the finger is greatly
swollen.
	Insanity.—The principal causes of insanity are
the result of an inordinate mode of living, eating
and drinking those articles which coagulate the
blood, and consume the natural forces; and also
the effect of medicines, which have for the last
half century been taken into the human system


under all circumstances. Study the emanations of
physical laws and adhere to the requirements of
the circulating medium, which moves the wheel of
life and carries in its force of action the finer ele-
ments thrown upon the tissues of the brain. If
this circulation becomes impeded, especially through
the brain, it creates an obstruction which destroys
the equillibrium, and insanity must ensue in a
greater cr less degree. Opiates and other concen-
trated medicines, which are now so freely used
are often the cause of insanity. It is possible for
insanity to be brought on by suffering, but unless
the brain had previously become diseased from
some other cause, I am inclined to think physical
force would succumb to suffering before the intel-
lect. Live in accordance with the finer elements
of life and health, and then nature will sway the
sceptre of her utmost power.
						Mrs. C. Van Cort.


