HUMILITY.

	Humility is the subject before the meet-
ing, and it is very important that we study
and reflect so that we may comprehend it
in its true light. We should all live hum-
ble and prayerful that the spirit of God
may dwell in our bosoms, and so that there
be nothing to grieve it from us. The Lord
says "if ye are not as humble as little
children ye can in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven." Then let us examine our-
selves and see if we are sufficiently humble
and that we remember His words, for the
Lord means just what He says. He is the
same yesterday, to-day and forever. How
shall we then keep this spirit of humility
with us? Will it be by neglecting our du-
ties and by forgetting God and letting our
thoughts be carried away with worldly
things? No! I think not. We must seek
the Lord often in earnest prayer, and ask
Him to endow us with that spirit of meek-
ness that will bring to our hearts true joy
and lasting happiness. We know that God
is no respecter of persons, but acknowledges
every honest heart, no matter whether the
possessor dwells in a hut or a palace. Our
Father in heaven knows our motives and
desires, and is not pleased with outward
display.
	We are striving to assist in advancing
the kingdom of God on the earth, and we
cannot do this except we cherish this spirit
of humility. Then my sisters let it be our
aim to serve the Lord with all our might,
mind and strength if we expect to be num-
bered with the chosen. We cannot serve
the Lord with one hand and Satan with the
other. We must be saints in very deed.
Our whole souls must be in the work, other-
wise we can accomplish but very little good.
It will not do to say we will accept this and
reject that. True saints must embrace
every principle pertaining to salvation, ad-
vanced by the servants of God, and try to


live in accordance with the same. There
is nothing too hard for us to do in order
that we may obtain our exaltation. God re-
quires nothing of His children that they
are not able to perform, but we must be
determined, and pray for strength and it
will be given us. The Lord is very merci-
ful; He is always more willing to bestow
than we are to receive and obey. Our re-
ligion brings to us sweet and holy feelings
and we will obtain eternal life through its
teachings if we seek for it truly, and is it
not worth working for, and enduring all the
little trials of this life?
	Let us be obedient to those who are
placed over us, and the Lord will bless us;
and especially let us carry out the wishes of
our president, and do all we can to encour-
age her, and sustain her with our faith and
prayers. We have a glorious work to ac-
complish here below. We each have a
mission to perfect ourselves, and prepare
for the great hereafter.
	Sisters let us then be united, for in unity
there is strength. Let us sustain each oth-
er and devote all our time and talents to
the building up of the kingdom of God, so
that we may have His spirit at all times.
					JOSEPHINE MYER.
	11th Ward Relief Association, Sept., 1876.


VERDI thus describes the fashion in
which he composes: "I first study thor-
oughly the characters of the dramatis per-
sonae. Then I commit the libretto to mem-
ory, and, girding myself for the task, work
away for eight or nine months, and more
if necessary, until the opera is completed.
Meanwhile I only live in my imagination;
hence my irritability, ill-humor, and inciv-
ility; for, though I am a bear by nature, at
such times I become more of a bear than
ever." Verdi rarely attends the theatre,
especially the opera. It is said that he nev-
er witnessed the representation of his
"Ballo in Maschera" until ten years after
its first appearance upon the stage. A man
of culture, he is a connoisseur in art, is
thoroughly versed in Italian, French and
Spanish literature, and is familiar with the
best German and English authors. He has
frequent recourse to the original source of
his inspiration, the Bible. Though he styles
himself a "bear," and often alludes with a
spice of pleasantry to his peasant birth, he
is courteous though simple in his manners,
easy and fluent in his conversation, and per-
sonally a great favorite among his more in-
timate friends. A Senator of the Kingdom,
he betrays no ambition to shine as a parlia-
mentary leader.


When Professor Aytoun was making pro-
posals of marriage to his first wife, a daugh-
ter of the celebrated Professor Wilson, the
lady reminded him that it would be neces-
sary to ask the approval of her sire.
	"Certainly," said Aytoun; "but as I am a
little diffident in speaking to him on this
subject, you must just go and tell him my
proposals yourself."
	The lady proceeded to the library, and
taking her father affectionately by the
hand, mentioned that Professor Aytoun had
asked her to become his wife. She added,
"Shall I accept his offer papa? He says he
is too diffident to name the subject to you-
himself."
	"Then" said old Christopher, "I had bet-
ter write my reply and pin it to your back."
He did so, and the lady returned to the
drawing-room. There the anxious suitor
read the answer to his message, which was
in these words: "With the author's compli-
ments."


