ATTEND OUR MEETINGS.

	To all the Saints I say, let us attend our
meetings. There is no privilege or higher
duty resting upon us than this; we call it a
privilege because it is productive of great
benefit, and again it is a duty the neglect of
which will involve as much loss, as the
observance of it will gain. Meetings are
fraught with great blessings and tend to
build up the faithful Saints, or strengthen
their desire to serve the Lord and to en-
large their understanding of the doctrines
of our most holy faith; it is simply absurd
for persons who have embraced the truth, and
having begun to taste the fruits thereof, to
vainly imagine that after having conformed
with the first principles of the Gospel, they
are sure of the possession of all those
heavenly enjoyments which are due to the
faithful and diligent alone; for the posses-
sion of those promised gifts, men and wo-
men, after having found the way of salva-
tion, and commmenced to walk therein,
should continue in the line of duty and
seek to acquire sufficient knowledge of the
grand principles of the gospel which must
necessarily be understood and carried out
in our daily lives. To neglect our meetings
is ignoring our lessons in the various
branches of the gospel; it is there we are
taught not only from the lips of God's ser-
vants, but by the Holy spirit which influen-
ces and dictates the minds of those who
meet together in His name; the Savior has
said, "where two or three are gathered to-
gether in my name, there am I in the midst
of them." No matter how few the number
may be of those who meet together, the
Lord has promised to be there, and as we
are commanded to cleave unto the Lord,
and as Paul says, that we might walk wor-
thy of Him, being faithful in every good
work. Thus increasing in the knowledge
of God, our attendance to worship and per-
formance of all duties pertaining to the
"new and everlasting covenant," should be
constant and faithful, so far as possible; the
individuals who do not attend their meet-
ings will fall asleep spiritually; neglecting
this one duty leads to further and greater
negligence.
	Step by step, men and women have
fallen into darkness, and it has often been
preceded by the neglect of their meetings;
the man or woman who walks up to every
obligation resting upon him or her can nev-
er retrograde in the knowledge of the gos-
pel; such persons are all the time on the
march of improvement, and are filled with
joy and satisfaction and hope of eternal life;
they are learning, while those who neglect
their meetings are losing ground and are
looked upon as dull and idle scholars or la-
borers in the Lord's vineyard.
	I therefore say again to all the Saints, at-
tend your meetings and be humble and the
Holy spirit will be with you and manifest to
you the gifts of the gospel; you will pro-
gress with the truth and be prepared for
greater responsibilities, consequently a
greater reward will be yours and happiness
in this life and the life hereafter.
					FRANCES B. HART.
	Alma, Weber Co.


MRS. Ingelow, the mother of Jean Inge-
low, died on the 10th of Dec., at her resi-
dence in London, in her seventy-fifth year,


