EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Amid the cogitations of my mind I have
dwelt with amazement on the title which
has been placed upon the societies of wo-
men. The word Relief fills my soul with
reflections such as how shall I with dignity
fill such a responsible calling; viz., to make
my home comfortable, to make those going
from home happy and contented, relieving
the wants of a large family circle in sick-
ness or trouble; responding to the require-
ments of my husband in his every day busi-
ness, and instructing the household that
they be economical and discharge their du-
ties faithfully, so as to relieve the father
and husband of unecessary costs etc; and if
I think I will while away an hour or two in
gossip, and rest my mind a little, just then
my attention is called to one who is in need
of relief, perhaps sick, or in trouble or des-
titute of the comforts of life, that perhaps
I may relieve a little in word or deed; then
I must omit my anticipated gossiping, con-
sequently I fear I shall not be posted in my
neighbors business, and the interesting
chit chat, which the Apostle James tells
us about in giving his description of the
tongue, will have to be put off. Then
comes a paper, perhaps the EXPONENT, of
course I am anxious to read that, here I find
reports from the several branches of the Re-
lief Society which are organized and set
apart to relieve the wants of the afflicted,
and those who are unfortunate and down-
cast. And as I have a responsible calling
in this Relief Association, I ask myself,
how shall I honor this calling? I must
cease to portray and represent the weak-
nesses of others, I will not assist to bind
down the broken hearted, I must not be
hasty in giving my decision on hearing a
rumor, as they often arise from misunder-
standings only, while a hasty reply is the
cause of many difficulties; nor will I say

[Column 2]
that the commandment of saving grain,
given by our honorable president is a spec-
ulative one, but rather will I say I have
been a participant of hard times in the past
and will exert my energies with those of
my sisters who are trying to make better
the future. In this life-giving counsel, we
have a chance to exhibit relief beyond our
present comprehension. I am happy to say
that our honorable bishop and others of the
brethren are willing to assist us in procur-
ing and storing away grain, and we as a lit-
tle band of sisters are united in this sub-
lime matter; and let us chime in together
with the poem: "Hard times, Hard times
come again no more."
	With congratulation, I am
					Yours Truly,
							M. A. BOICE.
	Oxford, Dec. 2, 1876.


