		THE PAST AND PRESENT.

	Some wiseacres say "live in the present,"
yet it is natural to look backward at certain
times, and wonder too, what the future will
be, and draw comparisons between that which
was, and that which is, and form from these
certain significant, though perhaps unreliable
conclusions.
	Another year has told its tale, delivered up
its record and sealed it in the archives of the
past until the great day of reckoning: and be
the record good or evil in the balance, it must
stand—it is gone beyond recall. Every thought-
ful person must have serious reflections, as he
or she enters upon each successive year, per-
chance like this, have the deeds of the past
been such as may be disclosed without the
blush of shame? How is it with this nation,
the glorious land of liberty and freedom?
	What has brought disunion and discord into
the halls of the Capitol? Have the sins of the
people gone before them to judgment. and is
the Lord pouring out upon the nation the vi-
als of His wrath? Verily it seemeth so.
	From the east and west, north and south,
the cry of dishonesty, injustice, oppression and
all the evil results of wrong-doing are echoed
forth until "the ear is pained" and the soul
sickened with the recital of wrongs. Inevita-
ble are the consequences which result from the
breaking of God's commandments and reject-
ing the Gospel of His Son. In the unchange-
able and immutable laws of nature, causes
produce effects, and this nation have sewed
the wind and must reap the whirlwind.
	There are times when national matters, as
well as many others of a less grave nature, seem
to have reached a climax, where they require
some direct and powerful force or agency to act
upon them, to bring them into subjection or
even to rend them asunder. Wrongs and mis-
takes seem to have been accumulating in the
affairs of this nation until the wit and wis-
dom of the most profound statesman and di-
plomatist seems incompatible with the resist-

[Column 2]
ance brought to bear against right. What pow-
er is there left that can be made to react and
avert the terrible calamities that seem about to
overtake the nation. The past year has been
one of unusual note in many respects. The
Centennial year of American Independence
has been marked by many strange incidents
and fearful dilemmas in different parts of the
earth; therefore the contemplation of it as it
passes away and takes its rank among its pre-
decessors, gives thinking people questions to
solve, that puzzle the stoutest brain and the
quickest intellect. They are amazed at the
events which are transpiring and wonder what
the future will bring about. Naturally enough
some try to believe that a change of politics
might quell many disturbances and allay some
of the grievances here in the United States;
others that an empire or kingdom would be
more suited to the condition of the various peo-
ples who have gathered here under the protec-
tion of a government that seemed to possess
all the elements and strength necessary to
maintain justice and equal rights for all, Jew
or Jentile, black or white.
	The words of the Savior in the New Testa-
ment show plainly that in the last days men
should hasten to destruction, that the time
would be so short that great events would fol-
low each other quickly; this seems to have
been particularly the case during the year now
past. "Men hurrying to and fro," is not this
scripture literally fulfilled? To what the great
and universal excitement is tending the world
do not discern, but the times are ominous, if
not prophetic, even to them. Many who do
not comprehend clearly the "signs of the
times" are looking to this year and the new
administration as an augury of asupicious ris-
ing, but "Alas for my poor country," as has
been sung in other lands, unless some all pow-
erful hand is reached forth in mercy to save,
soon will this sentiment so pathetically signifi-
cant re-echo through America.


