CLOSE OF THE CENTENNIAL
YEAR.

	It came and it has gone! The year so
lately new, so long looked forward to and
labored for, anticipated, dreamed and prated
of, is now but simply like its fellow
years, a monument of history, of memory,
of the past. We look about us, and with
startled breath, pronounce the old year
dead! and wonder that its days have passed
so soon. But wherefore marvel? Days and
years, like men are born to die. And men
must stamp alike their times and names,
by works of good or ill, with light or
shade.
	Now comes the query, what events will
mark the period just closed? Have indus-
try and true ambition had free exercise, for
good and noble deeds? Have men in high
positions in this land made manifest an in-
nate sense of honor? Has virtue's progress
been their generous aim? Has God been
in their councils? Has his voice approved
their course? Has His justice character-
ized their movements? The present aspect
of our national affairs, answers too plainly,
too profoundly NO! The hundredth birth-
day of American Independence is shame-
fully disgraced by shameless men. The
grand Centennial year is darkly shaded; no
wonder 'twas in haste to fill its time.


The glory of America is surely gone.
Political intrigues, official cheats, bold, law-
less demagogues with vile intent, hypocri-
sy and tyranny and crime, have rendered
her high courts corrupt as Hades and as in-
famous! Where justice once with Godlike
wisdom reigned, now dire confusion rages
frantically. There is no purity, no reason
left.
	The fierce and heartless cry of "Crucify!"
again seems rending the perverted air.
"Polygamy!" "Polygamy!" is the note
that's sounded from the very head of gov-
ernment. "The Mormons must be punish-
ed for their sins." But mark! These men
so zealous in the cause of forcing others to
their form of right, will yet concede they
have enough to do among themselves, to
quarrel with and tantalize each other.
Their dreadful work of preparation for the
land to be laid waste and desolate, moves
rapidly along. And soon will sound abroad
the mournful wail, the sad and terrible and
wild lament—America, the great, the proud,
the FREE, is fallen! fallen! fallen!
	But will this seal the closing scene of her
great destiny? No! when iniquity is swept
away, then will commence the glorious
reign of peace. The good and true from
every nation will continue to be gathered,
to build, to people and inhabit here. This
choice, promised land will be o'erspread
with cities of the Saints, and dotted with
superb and lofty Temples, built to the name
of Israel's Most High God. Another hun-
dred years will, doubtless, bring a brighter
day for fair beloved America, than ever
yet has dawned.				INEZ.
	S. L. City, Dec. 31, 1876.


