[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Plant Bulbs for Beauty]
Page 598
Plant Bulbs for Spring Beauty Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, The Deseret News HO is there among us who W tase wandered out into a sleeping garden, bundled against the chill of late winter, and searched eagerly for the first green spear of a daffodil piercing the brown crust of soil, or been thrilled again at the sight of the first blooms of the indomitable snowdrops? Truly there is magic in a garden. Gardeners cannot create a daffodil, a tulip, or a hyacinth with all their beauty, color, and fragrance. Neither can a gardener tell how lovely blossoms are created. Yet each springtime we thrill again to their great beauty. Nature has endowed the bulb with the faculty of storing up food energy so that it can make an early erowth long before the perennials, shrubs, or trees get started in the scramble for the soil's nourishment. If you were to peel the bulb you would strip off layer after layer of fleshy scales in which nature has thoughtfully stored the plant's food and energy. The scales are also the bases from which the leaves grow. Keep peeling, and you will finally reach the bud, a perfectly formed flower complete with leaves, petals, stamens, pistils—all in embryonic stage. Selection and Planting Bulbs will do exceptionally well in your garden, for they are adaptable to many different soils and climates. However, good drainage and fertile soil are essential for successful bulb culture. Insure the beauty of your spring garden by selecting only first class bulbs — large, firm, brown bulbs, without blemish. "Plant good bulbs and you will get good flowers." That statement is just as true today as when first uttered years ago. A good rule of thumb for planting dates is — get all your bulbs in the ground before you cast your ballot — small bulbs and daffodils first. Plant bulbs six inches apart to allow for spread of foliage, and, for evenness of bloom, plant the bulbs at the same level. Be sure you plant with the pointed ends up, pressing the base of the bulb firmly against the bottom of the hole where it is to rest. Bulb Varieties First of all the bulbs to flower is the snowdrop. Often its buds may be seen as the snow disappears, just waiting for the slightest hint of spring to lift its sweet head. Plant snowdrops as soon as possible after the first of September, in a colony, where they will not be disturbed and can multiply year after year. Chinodoxias, glory - of - the-snow, with their bright blue flowers, bring the first bit of color into the spring garden. They, too, look lonely planted singly. Take heed, then, and plant them in colonies. Crocuses, those silken lovelies, whoever has had too many of them? Page 599
Dorthea N. Newbold  HYACINTH BORDER Stately hyacinths border the garden walk and waft their fragrance through the garden and the house. Use them everywhere you find to tuck them in.
Plant an extra colony of them on the south side of your house, where the reflected sun will hasten their blooming date by more than two weeks.
Their flowers, in white or gold, or in shades af lavender to dark purple, are perfect for rock gardens. These, along with scillas, chinodoxias, grape hyacinths, daffodils, and hyacinths, need early planting.
Scilla sibirica, squills, with their blossoms of blue, stay fresh and pretty for weeks in the April garden.
Make a colony of them near Kaufmanniana tulips.
They will flower at the same time and give lovely color contrast.
Every garden, whether large or small, can use colonies of these "first-to-flower" bulbs.
They can be planted under three inches of good soil in odd corners around the garden, there to put on their annual display of beauty to charm all who see them. Don't forget the hyacinth, for its rich fragrance will scent your entire garden.
Plant them in groups of five to nine along in the indentations in your shrub borders. At long last, we are getting away from the idea that hyacinths must be planted in formal beds, or in rows, like soldiers marching along. Be sure to tuck in a few bulbs near your doorway, for then you may enjoy their fragrance each time you go in and out. Daffodils, with their happy habit, of turning their faces to the sun, PLANT BULBS FOR SPRING BEAUTY Ward Linton SULPHUR PHOENIX NARCISSUS have great appeal when planted in informal groups along a driveway or pathway, or as an edging for a boundary line of shrubs or evergreens.
Companion plants to use include blue grape hyacinths, forget-me-nots, anchusa myosotis, pulmonaria augustifolia, pansies, and primroses.
When planting tulips and daffodils in close proximity, place the tulips in the front, for the daffodils will be in bloom while the tulips are still short, and then, when the tulips are in flower, they will hide the dying daffodil foliage.
Tulips should never be planted in thin lines or awkward blocks.
When they are in bloom they look best in groups of six to twelve or mote, edging garden walks, drifting in the foreground of shrubbery, lending a touch of Holland to your garden.
Tulips come in almost every shade of the spectrum, and in spe- 601 cies that start with the conventional tulip shape and go on to a bewildering variety of beautiful forms with intriguing names.
They may be planted in October or early November. Early-flowering types, such as the Kaufmannianas, will bloom in late March or early April. May-flowering types, such as Darwins, Breeders, and Cottage tulips, will often last until early summer.
Give some thought as to when you want your tulips to appear and your dealer will gladly suggest the proper varieties., Color Arrangements The springtime garden can be the most beautiful of the year, for, with a bit of planning, the beds of tulips and daffodils can have a carpet of blue or yellow flowers to enhance their beauty. A planting combinaWard Linton PARROT TULIPS
