[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: First Ladies of II]
LETITIA CHRISTIAN TYLER 1790-1842) when he lost much of his popularity. She had the sadness of seeing him burned in effigy just outside the White House on one occasion. She tried to prevent his seeing the insult, but was unsuccessful. He told her, "I have seen this before, and though it hurts just as much every time I see it, the people can burn me in effigy all they want to, if they will just let me carry on my work in annexing Texas." He felt that if he could accomplish this his administration would have been a success.
Before they left the White House, Tyler had won back some of his popularity, and Julia had some happy days as First Lady.
Their great satisfaction lay in the fact that the battle for 'Texas was won. President Tyler's plan for annexation FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND was accepted by 'Texas just before he left office. Ex-President 'Tyler died in 1862 at the family home in Richmond, Virginia, and Julia survived him by more than twenty years, spending much of her later life in Washington. ARAH_ Childress Polk (1803- 1891 ) worked beside her husband James Polk as he rose from an obscure law practice in 'Tennessee to the State Legislature, to Congress, and finally to the Presidency.
James was the first candidate for that high office who was not a distinguished national figure, and he was opposed by the popular Henry Clay. But Sarah knew that he had the characteristics of steadiness, perseverance, and ability to solve problems that would make him a good President if he were elected. So she worked ~heart and soul for him during the campaign. As First Lady (1845 - 1849) she brought back to the Executive Mansion such serenity and dignity as Elizabeth Monroe had given it. She upheld certain standards that had not been known before. For instance, she forbade card playing and dancing in the White House.
Though such edicts irritated some people, she became one of the most popular hostesses the Capital had known. She gave two evening receptions every week, and numerous dinners, musicals, and informal parties. Her husband depended much on her and always consulted her on matters of importance. He _begrudged spending time on social affairs, and she relieved him as much
591 SARAH CHILDRESS POLK (1803-1891) as possible, sometimes even receiving alone at the traditional President's Saturday receptions to Congressmen. She made friends for them both. She was known to be as well informed as her husband on all political matters, though she refrained from discussing politics with anyone but him. 'They were indeed President and First Lady. At the conclusion of his administration, President Polk and his wife retired to their home, Polk Place, in Tennessee, where he died a few months later.
Even after his death, the National Guard would end their drills in front of the Polk home, where Sarah, with head erect, would accept their salute, a tribute to her as much as to the memory of her husband. Sarah Childress Polk lived in widowhood for more than forty years, a gallant woman, loved and honored, in her home in Tennessee.
Recalling her life in the 592
Capital, Sarah remarked, "The White House was the abode of pleasure while I was there." ARGARET Smith — Taylor, (1788 - 1852), a daughter of a Maryland farmer, was married to Zachary Taylor in 1810, when she was twenty-two years old. She lived the dangerous, comfortless life of army camps for many years, as she accompanied her officer husband from fort to fort.
When their children were old enough for school, she sent them to live with relatives, for she was determined they should not be deprived of education, though she remained with her husband. For more than a quarter of a century "their house was a tent, and their home was the battlefield."
During all those long years, however, she dreamed of the time when she could have a real home and family life. For a brief period that dream partially came true. When Zachary was called to command the army during the Mexican War (1846 - 1848), she did not go with him, but made a home—the Spanish Cottage—for her children on the banks of the Mississippi in Louisiana.
When the war was over and he returned, a hero, Zachary was nominated for the Presidency. He felt unqualified for the position, and Margaret, it is said, prayed that he would not be elected.
After election he became reconciled to the position, but she never did. She felt that she was so lacking in social background and experience that she would be a handicap, and, furthermore, she _preferred privacy and domestic duties rather than social life and entertainRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER—1953 MARGARET SMITH TAYLOR (1790-1852) ing. Consequently, she shut herself away from the social life of Washington. Her daughter Betty (Elizabeth) Taylor Bliss acted as hostess, and her gracious youth and beauty captivated Washington society.
Margaret spent her time in a room she had furnished to resemble the little home she had had for a short time in Louisiana. President Taylor died in that room in July 1850, a little over a year after he became President.
Margaret died two years later. HE next First Lady, Abigail Powers Fillmore (1798-1853), was a schoolteacher from her teens until after her first baby was born. She became interested in Millard Fillmore when he was a wool-carder's apprentice struggling to get an education. She began to tutor him and helped him in his advancement the FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND rest of his life.
Step by step, he made his way upward until he was Vice-President to Zachary 'Taylor, then President. | Abigail, because of failing health, was assisted as First Lady by her daughter Mary Abigail, a fine musician, who was only eighteen years old when she assumed many of the important responsibilities of a White House hostess. 'Together, mother and daughter arranged the books for the first White House library in the second-floor room they had furnished as a parlor. Here Mary often sang or played the piano or harp for her mother and a few close friends. At this time trouble was brewing between the North and the South. President Fillmore was accused of being a traitor to his party when he signed the Fugitive Slave Law. Abigail's greatest satisfaction lay in the knowledge that she was his support and comfort during those trying times.
Abigail died less than a
