[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Charles]
D orature—The Literature of England Lesson 35—Charles Dickens (1812-1870) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 15, 1953
Objective: By studying Dickens' life and his Christmas Carol, to realize more fully when and how he has immortalized the Christmas spirit in his writings. Dickens' Ability to Re-Create Truth Imaginatively Woulp you care to share in the very thoughts of a child, as few of us, once past twelve, ever can do again?
Then open Great Expectations to the first page and hear little Pip telling simply a child's truth: As I never saw my father or my mother, and never saw any likeness of either of them (for their days were long before the days of photographs), my first fancies regarding what they were like, were unreasonably derived from their tombstones. The shape of the letters on my father's gave me an odd idea that he was a square, stout, dark man, with curly black hair.
From the character and turn of the inscription, "'Also Georgiana Wife of the Above," I drew a childish conclusion that my mother was freckled and sickly. To five little stone lozenges, each about a foot and a half long, which were arranged in a neat row beside their grave, and were sacred to the memory of five little brothers of mine—who gave up trying to get a living exceedingly early in that universal struggle—I am indebted for a belief I religiously entertained that they had all been born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pockets, and had never taken them out in this stage of existence.
What can one say of such writing? Why must anything be said at such rare moments of experiencing a complete, flawless reincarnation of human reality? By critics, wary of using superlative adjectives, Dickens has been acclaimed the greatest of all English novelists.
After we have read the above paragraph, our dominant impression might well be, "Forget the critics 632 and scholars; this writing doesn't need explaining.
From the first page I liked it, and right now I'm living it. And now, please, let me read." Dickens' supreme gift is his ability to re-create truth. But the above passage is purely imaginary.
True enough, but it is also true that imagined truth may seem truer than actual truth. One might ask, why don't children write the greatest children's stories, or doctors write the greatest stories of human suffering, or soldiers write the greatest stories of war and adventure? Or how could Dickens, aged fortyeight, know that "little stone lozenges" might produce in the mysterious, illogical, intense mind of a child the compelling image of little brothers "born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pocketa 7 Of course the answer is obvious.
While children have elephantine imaginations, they have little powers of selection. 'Then, too, self-consciousness would obscure the pathetic sincerity of this recollection, even if it miraculously escaped smothering beneath a mass of actual detail. It remains, then, for the artist to re-create imaginatively the truths of life. And each writer creates reality anew in terms of his own judgment and awareness: "The world is seen in terms of the seer." Dickens' Love of Humanity Dickens' world was defined by his vibrant spirit as he sought self-realization and fulfillment by pouring forth his golden torrent of humor and love for humanity. And Dickens was passionately in love with the good life as he defined it: warm  family affections, hosts of jovial friends, good food, comfort and peace both at home and at large in the community—all well spiced with sparkling good humor.
Above all, he loved to create people, mostly from the lower middle class which had produced Dickens himself.
These immortal characters poured forth from his pen in a stream unbelievably rich and varied, each talking, acting, and existing in his own right. So real were they that Dickens could hardly bear the pain of finishing a book, thus deserting the characters he had created with such sympathy and joy.
Long after a book had been written, he would quote voluminously from the opinions of Mr. Pumblechook, Sam Weller, Mrs. Gamp, Micawber, or Peggotty.
Even when walking with a friend, he would remark, as he observed a passer-by, "His gait reminds one of poor Traddles, don't you think?" And in writing his books he did not create his characters (in Pickwick Papers there are more than three hundred ), he was those persons, and when they laughed, Dickens filled his chamber with his own rich laughtcr, sometimes so filling his eyes with tears of laughter that he could not see to write. Likewise, he suffered with them, in their cold and barren homes or in the sometimes elaborately staged throes of death.
Thus there was never a gap between Dickens and his vast reading public, since he considered himself one of them. The working classes of England and America, from the beginning, knew he was one of them. And so he was, in subject LESSON DEPARTMENT matter, in treatment, in belief and hope—really in everything. The greatest proof of the Dickens' miracle is that never once has Dickens' popularity slackened since his Pickwick Papers first appeared in 1836, when Dickens was twenty-four. Dickens' Life The second of.
Eight children, Charles Dickens was born in 1812 to a navy clerk and his wife living at Portsmouth, England. When Dickens was not yet three years old, they moved to London. Later, Dickens recalled some details of this early incident: there was snow on the ground, and his sister took him to watch soldiers' drill at a nearby field.
Throughout life he absorbed _ the most minute details of scenes, people, and conversations. "I looked directly at nothing, and saw everything," he recalled, an evident truth when we consult his books.
