[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
Ancestry  of  President 
David  O.  McKay 
/eanette  McKay  Morrell 
[The  first  of  a  series  of  articles  on  the  ancestry  and  life  of  President  McKay.] 
PRESIDENT  David  O.  McKay  Ellen  was  greatly  surprised  and 
comes  from  two  lines  of  re-  greatly  disappointed  when  her  par- 
ligious  people.  His  paternal  ents  and  sisters  refused  to  accept 
grandmother,  Ellen  Oman  McKay  the  gospel  as  she  explained  it  to 
was  one  of  ten  children,  seven  girls  them.     They  even   destroyed   the 
and  three  boys.    Her  father,  David  books  and  tracts  she  gave  them  to 
Oman,  for  whom  President  McKay  read.     Their     attitude,     however, 
was  named,  was  the  factor  or  stew-  failed  to  cool  her  ardor,  and  when, 
ard  of  the  large  estate  of  the  Earl  in  1852,  her  husband  was  ordained 
of  Caithness.  an  elder,  and  later  was  made  branch 
The  three  sons   went   to   India  president,  she  was  as  active  as  he 
where  they  became  the  owners  of  a  in  proclaiming  the  tenets  of  the 
large  tea  plantation.    The  youngest  Latter-day  Saint  religion, 
of  the  brothers  died  in  early  man-  When  the  time  arrived  for  the 
hood,  but  the  other  two  remained  family  to  leave  their  home  for  the 
to  rear  their  families  there,  sending  long  journey  to  Utah,  Ellen's  fam- 
their  children  to  London  for  their  ily  pleaded  with  her  to  desist  from 
education.  what  they  termed  "this  mad  ad- 
The  seven  daughters  were  given  venture."     The   Presbyterian   min- 
the    best    education    Scotland    af-  ister  visited  her,  at  the  request  of 
forded  at  that  time.    They  all  sang  her  family,  and  spent  hours  arguing 
in  the  Presbyterian  Church  choir,  against  her  leaving.     He  left  her 
and  were  popular  among  the  young  home  saying,  '1  am  sorry  to  lose 
people  of  the  church,  and  the  town  such  a  strong  Christian  member." 
of  Thurso.  The  Earl  and  Countess  of  Caith- 
Ellen    Oman   met   and   married  ness  added  their  pleas  for  her  to 
William  McKay  from  Strathnaver,  remain,    but    when    Ellen    Oman 
Sutherlandshire,    and    their    family  McKay  knew  she  was  right,  nothing 
consisted   of  two   sons   and   three  could  change  her  from  her  duty, 
daughters:     Isabella,     Williamena,  After  disposing  of  their  property 
Katherine,  Isaac,  and  David.  and  making  arrangements  to  leave 
On  November  3,  1850,  the  Wil-  Scotland,    the   children    developed 
liam  McKay  family  became  mem-  measles,  and  their  departure  had  to 
bers  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  be  postponed.    A  friend  of  the  fam- 
of    Latter-day    Saints.     The    three  ily  took  advantage  of  the  delay  and 
eldest  children  were  baptized  with  asked  William  McKay  to  lend  him 
their  parents  on  that  date,  and  they  sufficient  money  to  take  his  family 
all  became  enthusiastic  workers  in  to  the  States,  promising  to  return 
their  new  faith.  the  amount  when   the   family  ar- 
Page  574

ANCESTRY  OF  PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 
575 
THURSO  CASTLE,  SCOTLAND,  HOME  OF  THE   EARL  OF  CAITHNESS 
David  Oman,  great-grandfather  of  President  McKay,  acted  as  steward  on  the  estate 
of  the  Earl  of  Caithness. 
rived  at  New  York  with  a  later 
company. 
The  McKay  family  left  Liverpool 
on  Sunday,  May  4,  1856,  on  the 
sailing  vessel  Thornton,  command- 
ed by  Captain  CoUins,  and  reached 
New  York  on  June  4th.  Upon  their 
arrival  they  were  greatly  disappoint- 
ed to  find  no  trace  of  the  friend  to 
whom  they  had  loaned  their  money; 
so  they  found  themselves  in  a  new 
country  without  means  to  continue 
the  journey  to  Utah. 
Undaunted,  a  family  council  was 
held,  and  with  the  advice  of  the 
president  of  the  New  York  Branch, 
William  McKay  and  his  two  sons, 
Isaac,  sixteen,  and  David,  twelve, 
found  work,  the  father  going  to 
Connecticut,  Isaac  to  New  Jersey, 
and  David  upstate  in  New  York. 
'T^HE  mother,  left  with  her  three 
small  daughters,  rented  an  un- 
furnished, upstairs  apartment,  to 
which  they  removed  their  bedding 
and  the  few  household  articles  they 
had  been  able  to  bring  with  them. 
Since  the  family  observed  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  there  was  an 
accumulation  of  tea,  which  had 
been  issued  to  them  on  the  boat, 
and  this  was  exchanged  for  bread 
and  groceries,  which  lasted  until 
they  had  earned  their  first  money. 
After  two  years  in  the  East,  the 
family  left  for  Iowa,  where  they  re- 
mained another  year  preparing  for 
the  long  journey  across  the  plains. 
From  Iowa  City,  they,  with  a  small 
company  of  ten  wagons,  moved  to 
Florence,  where  they  joined  the 
company  of  Captain  James  Brown, 
leaving  on  June  13,  1859. 
As  the  family  was  ready  to  leave, 
word  reached  Ellen  Oman  McKay, 
that  there  were  a  lame  woman  and 
her  daughter  who  had  no  place  in

576 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1953 
WILLIAM  AND  ELLEN  OMAN  McKAY 
Paternal  Grandparents  of  President  David   O.   McKay 
the  company.  She  immediately  of-  Was  it  a  coincidence  that  the  ex- 
fered  her  own  place  in  the  wagon,  periences  of  President  McKay's 
and  she  walked  every  step  of  the  mother's  family  in  Wales  paralleled 
long  journey  to  Salt  Lake  City,  ar-  those  of  his  father's  family  in  Scot- 
riving  Monday,  August   29,   1859.  land?    His    maternal    grandfather, 
LODGE  ON  THE  ESTATE  OF  THE  EARL  OF  CAITHNESS, 
THURSO,  SCOTLAND 
This  lodge  was  occupied  by  David  Oman,  father  of  Ellen  Oman  McKay,  paternal 
grandmother   of  President  McKay.     David   Oman   was   the   factor,   or   steward,   on   the 
estate  of  the  Earl  of  Caithness,  and  this  lodge  was  his  residence,  and  from  this  place 
Ellen  Oman  was  married  to  William  McKay.

ANCESTRY  OF  PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 
577 
Thomas  Evans,  the  son  of  Edward 
Evans  and  Jennette  Powell  Evans, 
was  born  in  October,  1812,  in  Glam- 
organshire, South  Wales.  He  was  de- 
scended from  a  long  hne  of  profes- 
sional people,  among  whom  were 
lawyers,  ministers,  and  teachers.  His 
grandmother,  Margaret  (Peggy) 
Powell,  daughter  of  Thomas  Powell 
and  Ann  Lewis  Powell,  was  born 
July  2,  1813,  in  Brecknockshire, 
South  Wales.  The  families  of  both 
maternal  grandparents  were  devout 
members  of  the  Methodist  Church, 
and  shortly  before  Margaret  Pow- 
ell's passing  in  1896,  she  received  a 
visit  from  one  of  her  nephews, 
Morgan  Powell,  who  had  come  to 
America,  and  lived  somewhere  in 
the  West,  and  who  was  on  his  way 
East  to  accept  a  pastorate  in  the 
Methodist  Church. 
Thomas  Evans  and  Margaret  were 
married  March  27,  1837,  establish- 
ing their  home  in  Cefen  Coed,  near 
Merthyr  Tydfil,  Glamorganshire, 
South  Wales.  They  were  the  par- 
ents of  eleven  children.  They  be- 
came converts  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  were  baptized  the  same  year  the 
McKay  family  became  members,  in 
May  1850.  Because  of  this  action, 
Thomas  was  disinherited  by  his 
family,  and  received  no  word  from 
any  of  them  from  that  time  until 
his  death  in  Ogden,  Utah,  May  25, 
1877.    Since  that  time,  however,  his 
HOME  OF  WILLIAM  McKAY  AND  ELLEN  OMAN  McKAY, 
THURSO,  SCOTLAND 
This  house,  once  the  home  of  President  McKay's   paternal   grandparents,    is   still 
occupied.

578 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1951 
THOMAS   AND    MARGARET    POWELL    EVANS 
Maternal  Grandparents  of  President  David  O.  McKay 
descendants  have  exchanged  visits 
with  some  of  his  people  who  came 
to  the  United  States  but  remained 
in  the  East. 
Thomas  was  ordained  an  elder  by 
WiUiam  Richards,  and  later  became 
president  of  the  branch  in  which 
he  lived.  The  family  sailed  for 
America,  on  the  packet  ship  Hori- 
zon, May  25,  1856.  They  arrived  in 
Boston  harbor  on  June  30,  and  im- 
mediately boarded  a  train  for  Iowa 
City,  arriving  there  July  8,  1856. 
npHE  Evans  family  remained  in 
Iowa  three  years,  and  after  se- 
curing wagons,  teams,  and  an  extra 
cow  to  supply  them  with  milk  and 
butter,  they  left  Florence  June  7, 
1859,  in  the  private  company  of 
Philip  H.  Buzzard,  arriving  in  Salt 
Lake  City  August  24,  1859. 
Thus  the  two  families,  living  in 
different  countries,  were  baptized 
in  the  same  year,  sailed  for  the 
United  States  during  the  month  of 
May  1856,  and  both  reached  Ameri- 
ca about  six  weeks  later.  The 
McKays    remained    in    New    York 
two  years,  and  one  year  in  Iowa, 
while  the  Evans  family  spent  three 
years  in  Iowa,  and  the  arrival  of 
both  families  in  Utah  was  in  Aug- 
ust 1859.  Neither  was  conscious  of 
the  existence  of  the  other  until  they 
met  in  Ogden,  Utah.  Surely  theirs 
were  ''ships  that  passed  in  the 
night." 
The  Evans  family  remained  in 
Salt  Lake  City  two  weeks,  and  then 
came  to  Ogden,  purchasing  the 
property  between  what  is  now  Ad- 
ams and  Madison  Avenues,  and  be- 
tween Twenty-eighth  and  Thirtieth 
Streets.  Here  they  built  a  temporary 
log  cabin,  and,  later,  a  rock  house 
was  completed.  This  was  a  com- 
fortable and  quite  elaborate  house 
for  the  times,  and  was  occupied 
continuously  until  1951,  when  it 
was  replaced  by  an  apartment 
house,  owned  by  their  grandson, 
Thomas  Edward  Gibbons. 
David  McKay,  a  lad  of  fifteen, 
saw  Jennette  Evans  as  she  sat  on 
the  tongue  of  their  wagon,  shortly 
after  her  arrival  in  Ogden,  and  he 
said    he    never    forgot    her    large,