[Vol40 | September 1953 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Elizabeth]

Elizabeth Florence B.
Dunford dog, and so little a one as Elizabeth, shouldn't be such an important thing in a person's life. At least to me it had always seemed that people should come first. Yet when our threemonths-old cocker spaniel turned up missing that Sunday in late August it meant crisis. We had never had a dog before. My husband was a salesman, and all of our boy's life we had lived in apartments and hotels. But now Jim was coming home from Korea, with his leg still in a cast up to his knee, but blessedly safe and in time to start school that fall. "T don't care if he is twenty and in college," I told Allen that spring. "When that boy comes home this time he is going to have a dog." It wasn't that I was so particularly fond of dogs, myself. But Jim wanted one, and I knew he had missed having one all these years, for he had no brothers or sisters.
Surprisingly enough, his father agreed with me. We were living in a house then, even if it was a rented one. At last we could keep a dog. | "Tll scout around and see if I can find one," Allen promised. "We're going to get you a dog," I told Jim, the first time he came back home before he had been released from the hospital. I remember now the odd, unbelieving look he gave me. "Now, Mother," he said. It's like that, I thought, a kind of Page 584 hurt shock going through me. He thinks it is my fault he has never had a dog. He thinks I don't like them. It was the way we had lived that was to blame. We had never really had a place for a dog before. But now we did. And that's how we came to get Elizabeth. T was a month or so after Jim went back to the hospital, and just a few days before he would be discharged, that I went with Allen over his territory. We were in Hailey, and I remember he called me at the hotel. "T think I've found a dog," he said. He went on, "I'll pick you up; we'll run over and see it." The dog kennel was at the back of the white frame house.
There were just three puppies inside with the mother dog, a cocker spaniel with a rich coppery coat. "All the males are gone," the woman who owned them said. The mother dog tore at the meshed wire fence. "She doesn't like her babies being taken away from her," the woman went on.
There were two red puppies left. Then, over to one side, I saw the blond one.
Instantly there was something in the way she raised her soft blue eyes with the incredibly long lashes that touched my heart. "T'd like to see the little blond one," I said, a strange kind of clog in my throat. "Could I hold her?" The woman went inside, closed ELIZABETH the door, and then after a moment came out. She placed the puppy in my arms. She was so soft, so utterly helpless, and so unresisting that the lump came into my throat again. She didn't make any fuss at all, just looked at me with sad hope, her long silky ears mashed flat against her woebegone little face. "They look like ear pads," I told Allen. And something about her expression reminded me of an old history picture. It was the picture of a queen, and her eyes held that same sad look. The big ear pads, of course, were bejewelled. "We'll take this one," I said, cuddling the puppy against my cheek. I turned to Allen. "Her name is Elizabeth." And so that was the way we happened to get her. The next few weeks I spent a good deal of time keeping her from getting lonely, teaching her to follow me about the house. And all the time my mind was with Jim, about how surprised he would be. I had already written him and told him about her. "But still he'll be surprised," I told Allen. I added, "Somehow he doesn't think we mean it." But then in a few days we had a letter from him. And he did finally believe it, because he said, ""T'ake good care of Elizabeth." It was Sunday and he was due home the next Friday.
Elizabeth was so dependable and loving that I thought I could trust her outside alone. But, suddenly, along about noon I missed her. "Have you seen the puppy?" I asked Allen, when he came from church. He stared at me. 385
Panic rose inside me. "I hoped you had taken her in the car," I said. I went on, "She's gone. I just let her outside for a moment." Together we scoured the neighborhood. "Here, puppy, here puppy, here Elizabeth," I called up and down the street. "She couldn't go far; she wouldn't go far; she's too little,' I insisted. And then I added, "Someone's stolen her. Some of those boys who stop by the drugstore or the drivein over on Vista." That didn't seem reasonable either because Vista was half a block away. But some new businesses had opened up there recently — a movie, a drive-in, a service station. On Sunday especially the teenagers made it a gathering place. We looked the rest of the day. "She couldn't have gone far; she wouldn't have gone far; she's too little," I kept insisting. And as the afternoon waned and the evening shadows fell, I became more and more certain that someone had stolen her. "If she had been struck by a car, we would have found her," I told Allen. And he shook his head solemnly in agreement. T' was hard for me to get to bed that night, thinking about her, wondering about her. I loved her for her own sake now. But along with it were my thoughts and worries about Jim. Jim somehow blamed me — not his father or the way we had lived for his never owning a dog. And even though he was twenty and had been to war and been wounded, something told me he would blame me now. That he 

 —SEPTEMBER 1953 would think I was not really sincere about wanting a dog for him.
That next day at intervals I went down the road again. And by that time I had inquired at all the neighbors. "A little blond cocker," I kept telling them. But none of them had seen her. And though I strained my ears when I called her, for some answering sound, none came back. By that night I was desperate. '"Where's the dog?" I could just hear Jim asking it, the moment he hobbled into the house on _ his crutches. "I'm going to advertise for her," I told Allen suddenly that night after dinner. And I went to the telephone. "Lost: Blond Cocker Spaniel Puppy.
Belongs to Wounded Veteran. Reward." Jim wouldn't like that ad if he knew. He had never been one to try to get sympathy. But something has to be done, I thought.
There wasn't a possibility of getting another dog before Friday. We had paid thirty-five dollars for Elizabeth. And if we could have found another puppy, there would have been the explanations to Jim. The doubt would crop up. It wouldn't be the same. "Maybe if they see that ad they'll bring her back," I told Allen. And though I didn't believe it myself, still I had to hope.
Anyone could tell by looking at her that she was pedigreed.
Anyone who stole her wouldn't dare bring her back. By Tuesday noon I had almost given up hope. The ad was in the paper, though. But would the right person see it? Why would anyone who stole a puppy look in the lost and found column? It was shortly after twelve when I thought I heard the sound of a car in our gravelled driveway. And because I was hoping, if not looking for something to happen, I hurried from the kitchen through the living room.
There wasn't a car.
There wasn't a sign of a car though. I started to turn back, trying to swallow my disappointment. But suddenly I saw her. At first I could scarcely believe my eyes. A tiny bedraggled figure in the middle of the front yard, smelling around as though she wasn't sure of herself. "Is this my home, really, or isn't it?" her manner clearly said. I flew out the door, down the steps. Already I could see she was hurt. Her soft silky coat was a mass of burrs and dirt. She was dragging her right hind leg. But she was Elizabeth.
Somehow she had come back or someone had brought her back. I scooped her up in my arms, carried her back into the house.
Crossing to a chair, I sat down with her. GHE was dazed and unresisting at first. But as I cuddled her in my arms, realization struck at her. - She pushed her head under my arm and began to cry. "Mmmm, mmm, mmm," she wept, and her voice was high with pain at the long, terrifying hours she had lain out alone. For clearly she had been struck by a car, and plainly she had not had a bite of food or a drink of water in those two long days.