[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 295 | Home | Hill of Daffodils | Sylvia Probst Young]
[Hill of Daffodils Sylvia Probst Young]

Sylvia Probst Young @ Spring was usually late in coming to our valley, but, finally, when the last fringes of snow were gone and a warm wind stirred the leafing willows, we knew that winter was done and the wonderful waking season had returned. On such a sun-bright day, when Saturday's chores were finished, we would trip off to the low hill next to our meadow, and there, the wild daffodils—a host of them—with delicate, yellow heads swaying gently, stood waiting to greet us. It was a moment of breathtaking ecstasy, standing on the brow of the hill, overlooking a sea of flower golden loveliness. How eagerly we picked our aprons full of the bright blossoms to bring back to our mothers. The daffodils were a symbol of earth's beauty, of the beauty of all returning things—an April brook, a flowering dogwood, a winging blackbird. Remembering that childhood experience, I have tried to be aware of beauty everywhere, not only in the wonders of nature, but in the lives of people I meet everyday. I see the dedication of a young doctor who spends hours of his time, without monetary compensation, bringing comfort and happiness to the old, forgotten people in a nearby institution; the patience of a gentle teacher working with handicapped children; the selflessness of a widowed mother who works extra hours so that her children may gain an education. And I see ail the courageous ones who face the storms of adversity and loneliness and go uncomplainingly forward. The old man who brings eggs to me counts them with gnarled, rough hands, but his are the hands of an honest, good man, and in them I see the beauty of strength. Through the deep, dark eyes of a teenage girl—eyes bright as Stars, lighted with anticipation—I see the world in rainbow colors. Then there are times, in the quietness of a chapel, when I have listened to the voice of an aged prophet, and his gentle face, his words of wisdom lift my spirit. He is a portrait of peace, and his shining countenance reflects a life of devotion to a cause greater than himself. Looking to him I find a Spiritual beauty that fills my soul. So all around me, everywhere, I can find beauty if I am aware of it—by dawn and starlight, with each day, each changing season. And for all who are thus aware, life cannot be made commonplace, for they will walk with joy and sing on a hill of daffodils. 295 Sapiro Clara Horne Park @ I love poetry—for the feeling of bigness in the world that it reveals, showing the smallness of my conception, visible to me as I read. I love it for the imagination it stirs within me, for the remembrance of similar situation and gratification I remember from my youth. Past experiences I see with enlarged vision—the impression of my first view of ocean waves dashing, tumbling rhythmically obedient to the Creator's order —thus far shalt thou go and no farther until the word be given. I love every poet who inspires the feeling of greatness within me— who fires my determination to excel in my world in spite of my small desires for limited usefulness. I love the rhythm of words, the music in them which makes me catch my breath from their lovely intonations—the flash of genius I perceive in the artist's hand; the flow of another's words expressing sympathy and love of fellow men. I am a better person for having been able to share another's thought, to catch his heartbeat in his creation, and still my own heart to understanding and sympathy.