[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 272 | Fiction | Birthday Present for Amy Mary | Ek Knowles]
As soon as he had gone to school she asked Sally, '"'Please would you be an angel and watch the BIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY boys for about half an hour?" "Of course, Amy." She ran down the hill. If the washer was sold she would slump down dead on Mrs. Kincaid's back porch. But the sign was still there. Mrs. Kincaid smiled when she saw her. "'You've come for the washer!" She explained about the prize money. "I let Jeff know about the washer, and how much I want it and he'll be here today, but he isn't through classes until after one. Oh, please could you...?" "There was another woman coming to look at it, but I won't be back from a Singing Mothers' practice until noon. I won't sell the washer, I promise." "Oh, thank you, thank you!" It was 6:15 when Sally told her, "'Allan just telephoned to say he was going somewhere with Jeff and they would be late." But of course! Amy thought. Allan has a trailer. He will help Jeff bring the washer home. 'Oh, Sally,"' Amy cried. '"Aren't husbands a wonderful invention? I'm glad I'm married to mine for time and all eternity!"' "What has happened?" Sally dimpled. Amy almost told her about the washer and then decided against it. She wouldn't spoil Jeff's surprise. "Oh, nothing, except that tomorrow is my birthday, and I still believe in miracles." When Jeff came home he was like a small boy trying to keep a secret. As she drifted off to sleep that night she wondered, when will Allan and Jeff bring the washer in? Then she thought, I'm sure they have that all figured out, and fell asleep. The next thing she knew Jeff 275 YG like it, was shaking her and_ saying: "Happy Birthday, Sweetheart," and the boys were saying, "Get up, Mommy." She jumped out of bed in her red pajamas. She reached the door, ready to shout, "Oh, you darling, you bought the washer!"' There was no washer in the room, but on the kitchen table was a large oblong box. For a moment, disappointment stabbed so sharply she almost moaned with pain, and then Jeff grabbed the box and handed it to her. It looked like a package from an exclusive woman's dress shop. A horrible thought darted into her mind but she tried to push it away. I "Honey," Jeff explained, "IJ won a fifty-dollar prize for an article in the Engineer's Quartera' ""How wonderful, Jeff!" "And I bought something for you I've always wanted you to have." He was almost bursting with excitement. Amy placed the box on the kitchen table. With trembling hands, she untied the string. Inside was a_ tissue wrapped package tied with silver ribbon. The beat of her heart slowed and stopped. Oh, Jeff, you wouldn't no Jeff. Bd 276 Finally she parted the tissue paper. She saw pale blue nylon net, pale blue satin. She lifted out a net negligee, an exquisite satin nightgown. She gasped, "Oh, Jeff!" She wanted to cry, this useless finery. How could you be so stupid! And then she heard his boyish, proud laugh. "Do you sweetheart?" and the angry words stuck in her throat. She could only throw her arms around his neck and sob, "Jeff, Jeff!" "Don't cry, darling," he said gently. "I know you've always wanted something like this, and someday I'll buy you all the other things that go with them." THERE was a bang on the door and Allan's voice, "Sally is frying pancakes for a birthday girl. Come have some." Jeff said, "We'll there." Amy said, "You go and help Allan set up the card tables. I'll dress the boys and come." She had to get control of herself. After he had gone, Amy stood holding the nightgown in her hands, tears running down her cheeks. Chris pulled at her skirt. "Mommy crying.?" "Yes, I'm howling!" "I'll tell you what I'm going to do. Monday your Mommy is going to return this - - this frippery, and get the money back and." "Oh, don't do that, child!" Amy swung around to see Mrs. Kincaid standing in the doorway. "TI came to see why your husband didn't call about the washer, the door was open." "My husband didn't call for the washer because he spent his be right prize money on this! He needs a suit, the boys need shoes." ~ "I know, dear.'' Mrs. Kincaid said sympathetically, "husbands can be very exasperating."' "He buries his nose in his books and he doesn't even see my problems. Sure, be a good sport, help him get his degree. Well, I'm going to tell him a few facts about my life!"' "Don't make a mistake!" Mrs. Kincaid said sharply. ''I did that years ago. Sam gave me an expensive quilted robe for Christmas. I told him plenty!" her voice faltered and then hurried on. "I warned him never to do such a silly thing again. I took the robe back, and with the money I bought shoes and house dresses and a heavy iron skillet." Mrs. Kincaid walked over to the table and held up the' sheer negligee. "I hurt his pride so terribly that he never gave me anything frivolous again. Two weeks ago he died and." Tears ran down the older woman's cheeks. "I wish I had understood then that men are the most romantic creatures in the world. They like to believe they possess a woman so helpless and fragile that she must be wrapped in satin and furs. This period of scrimping and_ struggling will pass, and your husband will be a success, but when it is over, will he still see you as his beautiBIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY ful and precious queen he took to the temple?" Amy looked at the froth of nylon and knew that Jeff didn't see her at all in terms of diapers and washers. She prayed, oh, let me always walk with beauty in his eyes. She said, "Thank you for telling me all this, Mrs. Kincaid." "Why don't you come to my house and use my new automatic washer and dryer, Mrs. Barkdall? If you wish, you may pay me the same amount you pay at the Laundromat. There are boxes of toys that belonged to my children. Oh, I would so enjoy having your babies around." The loneliness in her voice caught at Amy's throat. She said, "Thank you, Mrs. Kincaid. I'll be there at ten day after tomorrow." After the older woman had gone, Amy leaned against the table, looked around, and her world righted itself. It was a gay, smart apartment with lots of personality and hadn't they been clever to do it all so cheaply! This was her birthday and the Sabbath. Her heart quickened with anticipation. They would have breakfast with their friends, and they would walk to Sunday 'School with their little boys. They would smile at each other, two people, a man and his wife, still very much in love!