Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. @

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$2.50 Here is a new and exciting discussion of Bible trans- I lations both ancient and modern by a popular contemporary Church writer, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. Taking as his theme the Article of Faith reading: ''We believe the Bible to be the Word of God as far as it is translated correctly,'' Elder Petersen goes on to present a thorough and well documented analysis of the Bible as it has been translated in various ages. Facts surrounding the Prophet Joseph Smith's inspired but incomplete translation are included. Other popular Mark E. Petersen books include; Our Moral Challenge: One Lord, One Faith; Toward a Better Life; and Guide to a Happy Marriage. Who Am I?, by Alvin R. Dyer $4.95 The crucial three questions of all investigators of truth are, Who am I? Where did I come from? And Where am I going? This authoritative and well-documented volume explains the meaning of earth-life existence from the basic concepts revealed by God to man in this dispensation. The I author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, has done a masterful job in handling his subject. Other books by the same author include: This Age of Confusion, The Challenge, The Fallacy, and The Lord Speaketh. @eeeeeresereerereereeraeenseoneerestesevesereseeereeerereseoeree ee seeereeseereereeeeeeeeeseeoereeeereeer eee @ DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check money order I have an account, please charge. Amount § > Se >, Ss. For [] As Translated Correctly ™ Mark E. Baliveen [] Who Am I? By Alvin R. Dyer cee cece PS eee eee eee eee eee eee e eee ned ee detec deta edb t ede pete eta eeeeaneeenernneees RTE ieteetitiiwieiinwuweveeuewwwieeeees -- DMN? Cries tee ee7. I Residents of Utah, please add 3'2% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax.