[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 244 | Special Feature | The Need for and the Value of a Testimony | Roy W. Doxey]
I have often said and desire to repeat here that when I was a young THE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY unmarried man, another young man, who had received a doctor's degree ridiculed me for believing in the Book of Mormon. He said he could point out two lies in that book. One was that the people had built their homes out of cement and they were very skillful in the use of cement. He said there had never been found and _ never would be found a house built of cement by the ancient inhabitants of this country, because the people of that early age knew nothing about cement. He said that should be enough to make one disbelieve the book. I said: "That does not affect my faith one particle. I read the Book of Mormon prayerfully and supplicated God for a testimony in my heart and soul to the divinity of it, and I have accepted it and believe it with all my heart." I also said to him, "If my children do not find cement houses, I expect that my grandchildren will." Now, since that time, houses made of cement and massive structures of the same material have been uncovered (Gospel Standards, Second Edition, page 28). What is a testimony? In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn: A testimony of the truth is more than a mere assent of the mind, it is a conviction of the heart, a knowledge that fills the whole soul of its recipient (Roy W. Doxey, Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants II: 310). There are several elements about a testimony which, it seems to me, should be known. The testimony is received by the Holy Ghost speaking to one's spirit. When the Spirit speaks to one's soul as a still small voice or by impressions to the mind, the power of that experience is such that it can be greater than if one had contact with heavenly messengers. One truth associated with this fact is that when the Holy Ghost has spoken to a 


 man's soul, it is possible, if that man turns away from that testimony, he may not receive forgiveness in the world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:31-35; Heb. 6:4-6.) Another fact we should know is that the testimony may come gradually, over a long period of time. President Joseph F. Smith said that as a boy he asked the Lord to show him some marvelous manifestation that he might have a testimony. But the Lord withheld these things from him and showed him line upon line, here a little and there a little, until he knew the truth from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. By the whisperings of the still small voice of the Spirit he received a testimony. (Latterday Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants Il:316.) I believe we should remember that study of the books of scripture will greatly aid us in not only obtaining a living witness of the truth, but also to retain one. I believe that it is necessary for a Latter-day Saint to study the standard works of the Church in order for him to have a living, vibrant, testimony. An example of what I mean is this account concerning the power of The Book of Mormon to impart a testimony given by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, in a General Conference sermon: I remember reading it [the Book of Mormon] with one of my lads when he was very young. On one occasion I lay in the lower bunk and he in the upper bunk. We were each reading aloud alternate paragraphs of those last three marvelous chapters of Second Nephi. I heard his voice breaking and thought he had a cold, but we 246 went on to the end of the three chapters. As we finished he said to me, "Daddy, do you ever cry when you read the Book of Mormon?" "Yes, Son," I answered. "Sometimes the Spirit of the Lord so witnesses to my soul that the Book of Mormon is true that I do cry." "Well," he said, "that is what happened to me tonight." I know not all of them will respond like that, but I know that some of them will, and I tell you this book was given to us of God to read and to live by, and it will hold us as close to the Spirit of the Lord as anything I know (Conference Reports, April 1949, page 41). I believe that what Brother Romney said about The Book of Mormon is equally true of the other books of scripture. It is also true that a fullfledged testimony, if I may use that expression, must be about all of the gospel and not only a part. One may, however, receive a testimony about one or several principles, such as that the law of tithing is true, that a virtuous life is exalting, that it is necessary to be honest and truthful. Testimony of a certain principle of the gospel comes because we live that principle. We do not have a testimony of the Word of Wisdom, or another principle of the gospel, unless we live that principle. When I live all of the principles of the gospel, then I have a testimony of all of them. In the meantime, that is, as I come to know the validity of many principles of the gospel, my understanding of other principles is enlarged, and my faith to accept all of the principles of the gospel is also increased. These ideas, though probably only partially stated here, bring us to a consideration of another important facet of our discussion. As one receives a testimony, SO also one may lose it. Negligence in observing sincere prayer, a lack of study of gospel principles; a lack of participation in Church activities; stepping aside from living some of the principles of morality; perhaps, finding fault with one's fellow Church members and with the leadership of the Church, all result in weakened faith and a withdrawal of the Spirit of the Lord from our lives. What is the result? Discontentment, unhappiness of heart, and a loss of peace and serenity of mind. But these adverse feelings come in this life. Greater still, is the loss of the great blessings of eternal life in the eternities to come. Let us consider in the remaining time, the reasons why each one of us should have a divine witness that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God's Church and that our exaltation will be earned only by our having a witness for ourselves. First, the person who has a living testimony of the truth is a person of conviction. Converted herself, she is a converter of others. The power of testimony is well known in this Church. By the sincere testimony, the lives of tens of thousands of converts to this Church are changed to a meaningful and happier life. The teacher in the classroom or the executive in the Relief Society, the board member who has a testimony, exude faith, helpfuiness, and strength of purpose. Second, those who continue to learn and to practice that knowledge are not deceived by every wind of doctrine or teaching that is not in agreement with the prinTHE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY ciples of the gospel. President Joseph F. Smith said: Where would you have people go who are unsettled in the truth? The answer is plain. They will not find/ satisfaction in the doctrines of men. Let them seek for it in the written word of God; let them pray to him in their secret chambers... And in their closets petition for light; let them obey the doctrines of Jesus, and they will immediately begin to grow in the knowledge of the truth. This course will bring peace to their souls, joy to their hearts, and a settled conviction which no change can disturb. They may be well assured that "he that heareth in secret will reward them openly." Let them seek for strength from the Source of all strength, and he will provide spiritual contentment, a rest which is incomparable with the physical rest that cometh after toil. All who seek have a right to, and may enter into, the rest of God, here upon the earth, from this time forth, now, today; and when earth-life is finished, they shall also enjoy his rest in heaven (JOSEPH F. SMITH, Gospel Doctrine. Ninth Edition, pp. 126-127). Third, the testimony is a shield against sin. When temptations come, temptations' enticings are easily rejected. The person who knows that there is a conscious existence after death and that all people will come to judgment, is the wise person, for he will act upon that knowledge and forsake the appearance of evil. Fourth, to the Latter-day Saint with a testimony, there comes the blessing of comfort and strength in times of difficulty. No one of us has a guarantee against adversity. All of us, however, have a guarantee, if we live for it, to receive the comforting peace that comes by the Spirit. Fifth, as a member of the Church increases in testimony 


 and he receives positive knowledge of the truth, his ability to live the principles of the gospel increases. Sixth, this person will find greater enthusiasm for the work of the Lord. Problems of administration, of teaching, of leadership, which to the nonconverted would be impossible of solution, or who would lack the drive to achieve, find solution because the one with a testimony knows that God will help and assist those who faithfully serve him. Seventh, the testimony is a bulwark of strength against the troublous times predicted for the last days. Wars, rumors of wars, civil strife that endangers lives and property, the love of man for fellow man growing cold, the ravages of the natural calamities, and the extreme wickedness with which we are bombarded, all of these are a part of our times, and they test the moral fibre of all people. President Heber C. Kimball said prophetically: Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and his work. This Church has before it many close _ places through which it will have to pass before the work of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming, it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of this work for yourselves. The difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who does not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right and call upon the Lord and cease not till you obtain it. If you do not you will not stand. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on 248 borrowed light. Each will have to guided by the light within himself. You do not have it, how can stand? Do you believe it? (Life Heber C. Kimball, pp. 449-450). In addition to these s blessings accruing to the Lat day Saint with a testimony, seems to me that all members the Relief Society would do t following things if they had testimony: First, they would follow th counsel of the Lord given in 18 to a member of the Church 1 a leadership position: ". Strengthen your brethren in your conversation, in all yo prayers, in all your exhortatio and in all your doings" (D 108:7). In other words, ev member of the Church would s tain unreservedly those who p side over him whether they General Authorities, stake a mission authorities, or ward a branch officers. They would everything in their power strengthen those who were se ing them by their prayers, in their conversations, in th teaching and preaching, in fac in every way. Second, the person with a timony will seek to build Zion the earth. Early in the dispen tion, the Lord told his people t this was the most import thing for them to do. To buil Zion means to be so dedicated the truth that one's actions, ef forts, means, and abilities a placed upon the altar for ou Savior in building his kingdo upon the earth. It means, as the Relief Society or any of t. Organizations of the Church, 1 cluding the Priesthood, that all become as the ancient Zion i Enoch's day, "of one heart and one mind" (Moses 7:18). The ideal Zion-condition in the lives of each individual was expressed by President Brigham Young in these words: "I live and walk in Zion every day " (Journal of Discourses 1:4). Translating this concept into what is expected of every Latterday Saint, it seems to me that he or she who has a testimony of real substance, that person will pay his full tithing, observe the Word of Wisdom, be honest and truthful, virtuous in his life, seek the advancement of his fellow man, and will accept all of these principles and also _responsibilities in the Church, whether considered small or large, for all advance the cause of Zion. The First Presidency composed of President Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and Jedediah M. Grant, has given us an insight into the blessings received by those who have a testimony of the truth: Incomparable delight and happiness fill the soul of the faithful Saint, who has the testimony of Jesus and the Spirit of the living God to enlighten his understanding. Happiness supreme and love divine fill his bosom, as he seeks to impart the gladsome intelligence to his fellow species, that they may also be partakers with him in the glorious cause, and share in its blessings. Thus our holy religion absorbs every feeling, desire, ambition, motive, and action of our natures, and renders every association in life tributary thereto; it forms the vitality of our very existence; it enters not only into our spiritual but also into our temporal organization, and controls us in all our affairs. This is true of every person who has tasted the good work of life, has received the Holy Ghost, and continues to walk in the light, and be led by its gentle influTHE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY ence. This is salvation in the kingdom of God, it is glory celestial, and exaltation. This is the work that makes angry the adversary, who fears the overthrow of his kingdom and power upon the earth, that causes Satan to rage and seek to destroy the Saints of the Most High, as he did in the days of Jesus and of his Apostles and followers (Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants 1:434). As I close these remarks, I want to express my deep appreciation for the opportunity I have had and that I am still enjoying in writing the theology lessons for the Relief Society. I have learned that the sisters of the Relief Society are dedicated to the building of Zion upon the earth. Let us return to the doubting student mentioned in the beginning of these remarks. To him and to all people, I can say that if a person seeks with all his heart to know of God's existence, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of men, and to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, these truths will be made known to him by the power of the Holy Ghost. I want also to express this fact. Regardless of ideas and thoughts to the contrary, ultimately, in each person's life there must come the conviction of the Holy Ghost. I know that revelation is in this Church, that the Lord's promise, as follows, is true: If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things—that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal (D&C 42:61). In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 249 reasons.