[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 291 | Home | I Love April Genevieve | Van Wagenen]
Genevieve Van Wagenen @ I love April with its golden daffodils and forsythia, its crocus and purple violets—colors of royalty. April, month of hope and promise—symbol of the resurrection. I love April for its return of green to the blade of grass, the leaf to bush and tree. The premier opening of flower buds, the return of birds, with their songs and nest building industry. I love April with her newborn babies—lambs, calves, and colts with wobbly legs and adorable faces. I love the profuse display of mother love expressed by the animal kingdom. April is a wondrous panorama of nature's obedience to God's command, "Be fruitful."' I love the freshness of April air, the blue of sky, with bouffant clouds toedancing by. The dew that lingers long beneath a gentler sun. I love the feel of exhilaration from the waking soil, the gentle falling rain. I love the fragrant furrowed earth, dark and moist; with white gulls hovering low—a study in contrast and design. I love April, with her fruit trees, bridal gowned and bewitching with perfume. The cuddly pussy willows in their swaying deckered beds. The swelling streams —adventure bound. The weeping willow's fresh dyed wig of yellow green. Her hair color is no secret, she wants the world to know how gay she feels. I love April for ambition that it stirs within the farmer's breast to plow and plant and cultivate. For new energy bestowed on homemakers to clean and beautify. I love April for the exuberance, happiness, and joyous activity it inspires in youth. For thanksgiving and gratitude it prompts in maturity. For freedom from winter's cold and icy grasp. For wondrous thoughts, that turn to love. I love April, for then the saints meet in General Conference. The faithful gather from countries far and near, to hear God's prophet mouthpiece, here on earth. Humbly they gather, willing to be instructed; seeking to be inspired and stimulated by God's chosen leaders. Yes, I love April for many things: for my wonderful Savior; for this beautiful world he created; for his great and willing sacrifice for all mankind; for the assurance of a resurrection; for the restored gospel and plan of salvation that make life glorious, full of purpose and meaning; for living prophets and continuous revelation. I love April.