LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December) AMERICAN POETS AND THE WORLD WAR The great world-war stimulated a number of talented poets in England, Canada and the United States. Unfortunately a great many of these men and women were victims of the war in one way and another. Of these poets America claims Joyce Kilmer, Alan Seeger and Charles Divine. The American public received a shock, in August, 1918, over which it has hardly yet recovered, when the daily press carried the news that Joyce Kilmer had fallen in action; for Joyce Kilmer had written "Trees," and "Trees" is one of the most exquisite poems ever written by an American. The poem was written for Mrs. Kerry Mills Alden: TREES I think that I shall never see A poem lovely as a tree. A tree whose hungry mouth is prest Against the earth's sweet flowing breast. A tree that looks at God all day, And lifts her leafy arms to pray; A tree that may in summer wear A nest of robins in her hair; Upon whose bosom snow has lain, Who intimately lives with rain. Poems are made by fools like me, But only God can make a tree. Soon after Joyce Kilmer's death, Mr. Irving Clarke, a citizen of the state of Massachusetts wrote this tribute to him which appeared in the New York Times: "T have been looking at the tree tops silhouetted against the sun's sky and reverently recalling Joyce Kilmer's "Trees." From his boyhood on the banks of the old Raritan, through the beautiful years of his poetic young manhood to his heroism in the fight for freedom, Joyce Kilmer grew strong and beautiful as a tree in the open, under the sky. His tribute to the trees is immortal, his tribute to humanity is celestial." "I think that I shall never scan A. Tree as lovely as a man, A tree depicts divinest plan, But God himself lives in a man." When Rupert Brooke, the young English poet, fell upon the battlefield, it was Joyce Kilmer who wrote the most touching tribute on this side of the Atlantic. Occasionally a man in paying tribute to another writes his own best epitaph; this Joyce Kilmer has done, so we include it in the lesson: IN MEMORY OF RUPERT BROOKE 'In alien earth, across a troubled sea, His body lies that was so fair and young. His mouth is stopped with half his song unsung; His arm is still that struck to make men free. But let no cloud of lamentation be Where, on a warrior's grave, a lyre is hung, We keep the echoes of his golden tongue, We keep the vision of his chivalry. So Israel's joy, the loveliest of kings, Smote now his harp, and now the hostile horde; Today the starry roof of Heaven rings With psalms a soldier made to praise his Lord. And David rests beneath Eternal wings, Song on his lips, and in his hand a sword." ALAN SEEGER Alan Seeger was born in New York on June 22, 1888. His parents who were of old New England stock moved to Staten Island when Alan was a baby one year of age. He received his preparatory education at the Staten Island Academy and the Horace Mann School, and his college work at Harvard University. The war was only three weeks old when Seeger went to France and enlisted. He loved France and was willing to fight for it. Seeger was invited to write a poem to be read before the statues of Lafayette and Washington, in Paris, on Decoration Day, during the period of his service. The committee, consisting of American residents of France, asked that he write an ode in memory of the American volunteers fallen for France. His leave of absence did not arrive in time for him to attend the service, but fortunately the poem was written. It is one of the noblest poems of the war. Mr. William Archer has written an account of Alan Seeger's death so we include it in Mr. Archer's words: "On July 1, the great advance began. At six in the evening of July Fourth, the Legion was ordered to clear the enemy out of the village of Belloy-en-Santerre. Alan Seeger advanced in the first rush, and his squad was infiltrated by the fire of six German machine guns, concealed in a hollow way. Most of them went down, wounded in several places. * * * As his comrades came up to him, Alan cheered them on, and they left him behind; as they passed on they heard him singing a marching song in English. They took the village, they drove the invaders out; but for some reason unknown, perhaps

a very good reason, the battlefield was left unvisited that night. Next morning Alan Seeger lay dead." Like Joyce Kilmer, Alan Seeger wrote his own best epitaph in the poem prepared for Decoration Day. We quote it: "Aye, it is fitting on this holiday, Commemorative of our soldier dead, When, with sweet flowers of our New England May, Hiding the lichened stones by fifty years made grey, Their graves in every town are garlanded, That pious tribute should be given, too, To our intrepid few, Obscurely fallen here beyond the seas. * * * * * Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops; Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours. * * * * There, holding still, in frozen steadfastness, Their bayonets towards the beckoning frontiers, They lie?our comrades?lie among their peers, Clad in the glory of fallen warriors. Grim clusters under thorny trellises, Dry, furthest foam upon disastrous shores, * * * * * And on those furthest ruins of hallowed ground Where the forlorn, the gallant charge expires When the slain bugler has long ceased to sound, And on, the tangled wires The last wild rally staggers, crumbles, stops, Withered beneath the shrapnel's iron showers:? Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops; Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours." One of the finest stanzas from the pen of Alan Seeger, having in mind the Americans who died in France, reads: "Opposed to their Elysian quietude; Our salutations calling from afar, From our ignoble plane And indistinction of our lesser parts; Hail, brothers, and farewell; you are twice blest, brave hearts; Double your glory is who perished thus, For you have died for France and vindicated us." Some critics say that "I have a rendezvous with Death," is the poem above all others that gives Alan Seeger his place with the best of the poets of the last war. The first and second stanzas of that poem follow: "I have a rendezvous with Death, At some disputed barricade, When Spring comes back with rustling shade And apple-blossoms fill the air? I have a rendezvous with Death. When Spring brings back blue days and fair,
"It may be he shall take my hand And lead me into his dark land, And close my eyes and quench my breath? It may be I shall pass him, still? I have a rendezvous with Death, On some scarred slope of battered hill; When Spring comes round again this year And the first meadow flowers appear."
CHARLES DIVINE.
Charles Divine was a private in the Army, belonging to the 27th Division U. S. A. Before the war Divine was a reporter on the New York Sun, and in leisure moments he wrote verses for Life, Smart Set and various other magazines. Already his verses had attracted some attention, but the war made them conspicuous. He was born January 20, 1899, at Binghampton, New York. He grew very impatient in the military camp, in the U. S. A., and was apparently greatly pleased when his division was ordered to France. In a letter written after the order came, he said: "Being with the sanitary troops, expect to go through the war unharmed and come back and be run over by a baby carriage." The best pen sketches of soldier life, so far as America's contribution is concerned, were written by Charles Divine. Joyce Kilmer and Alan Seeger wrote of the great sacrifice, Charles Divine of actual soldier life. In one of his sketches the poet writes first of the oak trees and pine trees near the camp, and then he says: "Here soldiers sit bent over tubs And wash their clothes with rhythmic rubs. Through leaves, white-tipped, each open space Floods: moonlight, patterned songs, and lace; A silver bush on moon-sprayed ground Breathes music sweeter than a sound. Where beauty is, are loves, desires, Night's vague and vibrant softness fires; Adventures brighten in the South? Where romance calls from full-lipped mouth? And see! The lifted arms hang still, A moment's doubt that guns can kill. Then scrubbing hands forget the night: 'Who's got the soap? The grease sticks tight'." The Lavender Lantern, gives us another sketch of soldier life, which has been described as, "as honest and charming a bit of verse as ever came from a poet turned soldier:" "I wonder who is haunting the little snug cafe, That place, half restaurant and home, since we have gone away; The candled dimness, smoke and talk, and tables brown and bare? But no one thinks of table cloths when love and laughter's there." The war of the American Revolution gave us a group of poets as did also the Great Civil War; and in the output of poetry

that has come to us from the Great World War we have an example of history repeating itself. Any period of time that tries and stirs men's souls as do the times of war is sure to develop a group of singers.
QUESTIONS AND