[Vol12 | October 1925 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Status of Women in Japan I. A. Ray Olpin]

The Status of Women in Japan By A. Ray Olpin "It is the chief duty of a girl living in the parental house to practice filial duty towards her father and mother.

But after marriage, her chief duty is to honor her father-in-law and mother-in-law—to honor them beyond her own father and mother —to love and reverence them with all ardor, and to tend them with every practice of filial piety.

"She must not selfishly think first of her parents, and only secondly of her husband's relations.

"As a woman rears up posterity, not to her own parents, but to her father-in-law and mother-in-law, she must value the latter ever more than the former, and tend them with all filial piety.

Her visits, also, to the paternal house should be rare, after marriage." These few excerpts from Basil Hall Chamberlain's translation of Onno Daigakko, or The Greater Learning for Women, should sufficiently pave the way for the announcement that the Japanese father exclaims upon the birth of a daughter: "Five thousand dollars lost." The exclamation has even more direct application in the fact that, when the daughter dresses herself in mourning and "dies" to her father's house, to be resurrected in that of her father-in-law's; or, in other words, when the bride marries, she is expected to take with her a very complete dowry or trousseau, including household utensils, furniture and necessities in addition to a liberal supply of clothing.

The father pays heavily to marry off his daughter.

To quote again from the Onna Daigakko, which has been called the Golden Rules for Female Virtue: "From earliest youth, a girl should observe the line of demarcation separating women from men; and never, even for an instant, should she be allowed to see or hear the slightest impropriety." "A woman has no particular lord.

She must look to her husband as her lord, and must serve him with all worship and reverence, not despising or thinking lightly of him.

The great lifelong duty of a woman is obedience." "Let her never even dream of jealousy.

If her husband be dissolute, she must expostulate with him, but never either nurse or vent her anger." ""A woman should be circumspect and sparing in her use of words; and never, even for a passing moment, should she slander others or be guilty of untruthfulness." 
 "A woman must ever be on the alert, and keep a strict watch over her own conduct.

In the morning she must rise early, and at night go late to rest.

Instead of sleeping in the middle of the day, she must be intent on the duties of the household, and must not weary of weaving, sewing and spinning.

Of tea and wine she must not drink overmuch, nor must she feed her eyes and ears with theatrical performances, ditties and ballads.

To temples and other like places, where there is a great concourse of people, she should go but sparingly till she has reached the age of forty." "The five worst maladies that afflict the female mind are: indocility, discontent, slander, jealousy, and silliness.

Without a doubt, these five maladies infest seven or eight out of every ten women, and it is from these that arises the inferiority of women to men.

A woman should cure them by self-inspection and self-reproach."' The Greater Learning for Women, from which these instructions were taken, was written during the Tokugawa period by one Yekiken Kaibara, and was one of the most influential books of the time.

Previous to this time, and especially during the Heian age, woman had been at the zenith of her power.

Two of the finest pieces of literature in all Japanese history, Makura-no-soshi and Genji Monogatari, are the works of women.

Literature of the Heian period and other earlier regimes infer and frequently state that women wielded a powerful influence.

Accounts of two men fighting for the same lady, knights undertaking perilous journeys to gain the hand of fair ladies, a woman gaining a verdict in a breach-of-promise case, etc., all reveal much of the status of women before the Tokugawa shogunate.

During the Heian period, laws regulating inheritance provided that all the children of the family be given equal shares.

Then, as Professor S. Sassa points out, it was during the period of Japan's civil strife and during the Tokugawa age of peace that followed, when women lost her high place in the national mind.

Under the Tokugawas, Confucianism flourished, and Confucianism gave women a low place in the scheme of civilization.

Man was the lord, and woman the weaker vessel.

Buddhism never attempted to discuss the relations of the sexes; excepting that religion taught men to "regard woman as one of the many evils of life, and warned him against love of her as the way to hell." With the re-establishment in power of the emperor, just what has been the effect upon the status of women?

To answer this question, the courtship and marriage of a present-day maiden will be traced.: Although, as a matter of course, the Japanese maiden is expected to marry early in life, she never experiences any of the joys THE STATUS OF WOMEN IN JAPAN 519 of courtship.

She is charming in the extreme, yet never forward.

She is simply a modest, kind, faithful girl, forced by rigid customs to shun, rather than solicit, the attentions of the male sex.

It would be terribly shocking to the people at large, and disastrous to the reputation of the young lady, should she be seen on the street, even at midday, in company with one of the opposite sex.

And it would be most disgraceful for a young man to pay a visit to a reputable lady friend to court her affections.

Nor does the youth of Japan seem to yearn for the companionship of the opposite sex.

Separated early in the primary school, they pursue their courses of study in boys' and girls' schools.

No co-ed schools are to be found in Japan and it was only recently that a few lady students were admitted into advance courses in the Imperial University of Tokyo.

At the theatre and in church the men sit on one side of the building and the women on the other.

As an example of the popular thought on this subject, comes the following experience.

A young Japanese lady student of about sixteen years who attended our meetings in Osaka, told me that the Japanese boys were rapidly degrading, and that frequently they said "perfectly awful" things to the girls.

"Why, just the other day, while riding on a street car, a boy made a vulgar remark to me," she confided.

"He said: 'Kondo no nichiyobi raketto wo motte Nakashima koen ye kot!" While admitting that his language was very intimate, I could scarcely suppress a smile; for all he had said was: "Bring your racket and come to Nakashima park next Sunday." Yet for a boy to so address a girl in Japan was most improper.

A number of influences in Japan of late seem to be at work slowly undermining the strong barrier between the sexes.

However, these forces are not of the best type, and we fear the results will be evil.

For example, the American movie productions are shown all over the empire; and even though the close censorship of the police requires all kissing scenes be cut out from the films, the romantic adventures of youth so often portrayed are perhaps to a great extent, responsible for the tragic romances we read of in nearly every daily paper.

"Tragic romances" they are, because a tragedy is the inevitable result of falling in love in Japan.

Unable to get their parents' consent for courtship or marriage, and knowing that elopement would bring disgrace not only upon themselves but upon their families, making happy life impossible here on this earth, the mutually infatuated couple have but one course to pursue, namely: to seek a new world to live in.

Accordingly, the elopement is usually in the direction of some waterfall, sea or railroad track—some of the popular exits from this life.

A day or so after the elopement, a letter may be discovered in which is 
 found a statement similar to this: 'Finding it impossible to live together in this existence, we have decided to journey to the next.

Goodbye." Although these shinju, or double, suicides are not at all uncommon, even the reports of them are offensive to the majority of the youth of Japan.

How, then, are the youth of Nippon mated and entered into wedlock?

First of all, if a parent has not already selected his son's wife, a young man who is in a position to marry calls on some married friend and asks him to seek him a wife.

The friend, acting as a go-between, canvasses among the young ladies of his acquaintance and inquires of his friends.

Finally, he decides upon a certain one and visits her parents to make the proposal.

If they approve, a party is arranged at the home of some common friend where the young couple have a chance to meet, perhaps for the first time.

Should the young lady positively object to the young man, she is seldom forced to marry him; but no more cordial feeling than simple toleration is expected after marriage.

If no reason can be found why the young couple should not be married, presents are exchanged, the betrothal entered into, and the wedding arrangements made.

Should it be impossible to find a satisfactory wife otherwise, the soliciting party will advertise in the paper or take his case to a professional matrimonial agency who in turn will advertise for him.

By these methods it is always possible to make matches.

It is not uncommon for the maiden, desiring to enter matrimony, to advertise for a husband.

These ads are amusing to the foreigners.

The following was clipped from a current newspaper: "Wanted—a wife up to the age of 26. By a real gentleman, aged 30, position with a certain firm, bearer of the 8th order of merit, household treasures worth $80,000." All arrangements for the wedding are made by the go-betweens or seconds, who are in a measure responsible for the future felicity of the couple.

The next thing is to find a lucky day.

Frequently, a fortune teller is consulted.

Certain days and certain years, January 16, and the whole month of July are known to be unlucky.

The middle of November is considered to be the most lucky time.

The ninth year of the Simico-Japanese zodiac is a very unlucky year.

It happened to be 1920, and the records show few marriages were arranged for then.

The reason for the superstitious distrust of that year is found in the two-fold meaning of the zodiacal name.

The year is the monkey year, pronounced in Japanese, saru-no-toshi.

Now, besides meaning "monkey," saru means to leave or to part, and the popular fear is that couples united during this year are apt to separate soon.

THE STATUS OF WOMEN IN JAPAN 521 Practically the only legal requirement for marriage is registration.

The marriage ceremony is quite simple, consisting of the alternating drinking of sake (Japanese wine), "three times three" or nine times, by the bride and the groom.

The parents of the bride have to supply the bride with a very costly dowry, and the detail and formality of taking this to the house of the groom is characteristic of the ceremonious occasion.

Would that it could be said that all couples "live happily ever after." Perhaps many of them do.

For they are trained for their parts, the man to be the head of the household and the wife to look after her lord's interests.

Harsh and abrupt he appears, and the Occidental is frequently shocked while visiting a typical Japanese home.

He wonders that the wife would put up with such a commandeering, bossing type.

But seemingly, this is just what she has been trained to expect and look for.

She seems to understand that her position is that of chief servant in the household, and that she must do all she can to please the father of her children.

There is one head, not two.

Divorces are not uncommon.

But certainly they are not so common as one would expect.

Yet the Japanese maiden has been trained from childhood to live contentedly in the service of her lord.

She is seldom misused.

"Wife-beating" is rarely heard of.

Every girl realizes that her mission in life falls under the "three obediences—obedience, while yet unmarried, to a father; obedience, when married, to a husband, and that husband's parents; and obedience, when widowed, to a son." Formerly, the custom of blacking the teeth by married women prevailed in Japan.

Occasionally, at the present time, one sees a woman with black teeth proclaiming the fact that she is married.

Although this custom has been practically abandoned, there is still certain fashions peculiar to married life.

Noticeable among these is that of head dress.

The Shimada coiffure is worn by girls; the Marumage, by women.

There is another, known as the Icho-gaeshi, which is worn by old ladies.

There are a great many other styles with appropriate names, but the shades of difference are rather confusing.

Of course, the dressing of the Japanese lady's hair, is no small task.

The Japanese coiffure is a real edifice, and when once completed will last for weeks, if necessary.

The dressing of the hair is done by accomplished experts in beauty parlors, and quite a liberal sum is now demanded for the work.

In order to preserve the fine lines and_ straight, glossy, jet-black surface; in other words, not to destroy the edifice, the Japanese woman is quite content to sleep on her back at nights with her head hanging over the edge of a hard block for a pillow.

In this fashion she keeps her hair from coming in contact with anything that will snarl or ruffle it in any way. 
 In concluding this article, it might be well to state that ordinarily a woman's religion in Japan, is that of her husband's family.

Of course, liberality is beginning to assert itself, and there are many instances of the husband being a Buddhist and his wife a Christian, or vice versa.

The results of this condition are not satisfactory by any manner of means.

One of the big reasons is that the wife must tend the family kamidana or "godshelf," which is part of the home.

There it is that the tablets bearing the posthumous names of the deceased ancestors are placed, and before which must be placed fresh flowers and food every morning.

A short prayer is also a part of the daily routine before the small shrine.

Is there any wonder then that the lady says, "my lord's religion"? Incidentally, there is one Japanese lady who is having a new experience in doing work for dead ancestors.

And that is not before a Buddhist temple or a Shinto shrine, but before the altar of God in a Latter-day Saint temple.

Sister Tsune Nachie, through the assistance of the Church and friends, has been enabled to make the voyage to Hawaii, where she is at present doing her temple work.

She holds the distinction of being the first Japanese to enter a Latter-day Saint temple to participate in the sacred rites therein.

Sister Nichie is an elderly lady, and a widow.

For years she took care of the mission headquarters in Tokyo.