=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XII OCTOBER, 1925 No. 10
CONTENTS
CONTENTS

Autumn Annie Wells Cannon 507
The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds 509
Self-Love Elsie E. Barrett 516
The Status of Women in Japan I. A. Ray Olpin 517
The Other Side Alice Morrill 522
Editorial—Women of the East and the Veil 523
American Literature Coming to its Own 525
Condolence 525
The Dawn Grace Ingles Frost 526
Phyllis Morton's Birthday Gift Myrtle M. Dean 527
Diet for the Woman of Forty Plus Jean Cox 535
Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart 541
Utah State Conference of Social Workers 543
Our Heritage Josephine Spencer 544
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 545
Guide Lessons for December 551
Love Patriotism Susan Coolidge 561

Frontispiece

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

For our success we are indebted to our friends

Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
65 West First South

KEELEY'S
Call Your Nearest
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

Our 30c or 50c Special Brick

PHONE WAS. 3223

GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES AND RETURN. IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP

Southern Pacific Lines

THREE TRAINS DAILY FROM SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN
PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY

For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write
P. BANCROFT, General Agent
41 South Main Street
Wasatch 3078

HEALTH

Not in books but in MILK you will find the secret of Health. We offer the city's finest milk and cream—as the majority of your neighbors will tell you.

CLOVER LEAF DAIRY

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

SHURTLIFF & ANDREWS
159 West 1st South
Wasatch 2177

ASK YOUR DEALER FOR
Z. C. M. I. FACTORY-MADE

Children's Allovers
Khaki and White-Backed Denim
Dutch Kut, for Boys—

Peggy Clothes, for Girls—

The Famous Mountaineer Overalls
Give Splendid Satisfaction

MOTHERS are more concerned with the happiness of their children than they are with their own happiness. Call in our store during conference and let us show you the books and toys that will make you all happy.

Deseret Book Company
44 East South Temple
P. O. Box 1793
Salt Lake City

"Ask us about it"

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Ashton-Jenkins Co.

We'll Finance You to Buy and Install HEATROLA Now!

HEATS 3 TO 7 ROOMS

Just like a furnace with uniform heat all over the house. The Heatrola looks like a phonograph. You don't have to take it down in the summer. Burns no more fuel than an ordinary heater yet Keeps the whole house warm. Holds fire 50 hours on one charge of coal. It is the heating marvel of the age.

OVER 600 HEATROLAS SOLD IN SALT LAKE

Users are delighted. The Heatrola has proven its worth. It is no longer an experiment. Do not be misled, there are many Heatrola imitations on the market that are supposed to be just as good. Buy the original. Buy the genuine.

Mail Orders Given Prompt Attention
We Pay the Freight Anywhere

CO-OP FURNITURE CO.
The Reliable Mail Order House

W. N. Williams, Pres. And Mgr.
Clarissa S. Williams, Vice Pres.
Exclusive Heatrola Agents
35 to 37 So. Main St., Salt Lake City

The Reliable
1069 E. 21st SOUTH

Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26

WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30%

No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style $1.25

Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD STYLE L. D. S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits.

No. 50 Flat Weave $0.95
No. 52 Fine Rib $1.00
No. 54 Medium Cotton $1.15
No. 56 Unbleached $1.00
No. 58 Heavy Unbleached $1.25
No. 60 Fine Bleached $1.25
No. 66 Mercerized $1.50
No. 70 1/2 Wool $1.50
No. 69 3/4 Wool $1.75
No. 74 Silk and Wool $2.75

For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY
No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey $9.50
No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black $9.50

All Wool Blankets 5 lb. Double 66-80 $8.50
All Wool Men's Sweater Coats $6.25
All Wool Men's Shirts $5.75
All Wool Overcoats $18.50

If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund the money

WRITE FOR SAMPLES

Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk Hose in Any Shade for $1.00

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Competent Workers Are Well Paid

There is dignity, satisfaction and financial reward in a good office position. Our courses qualify you in a short time for one of these most desirable places.

Let us show you what our graduates have done and are doing. Let us prove the value of our training.

Fall Term Begins September 8
Call or Write Now!

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Our Big Offer for October Only

A Complete home laundry
MASTER Washer
SIMPLEX Ironer
DOUBLE portable self draining tub
FOLDING tub or basket stand
WHITE enamelled table top for ironer

$5 DOWN
Balance on convenient monthly payments

An opportunity not to be overlooked!

Utah Power & Light Co.
Efficient Public Service

Temple and Burial Clothes

Complete Suits for Men and Women
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. m.—5 p. m.

General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286
23 Bishop's Building
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

TROY LAUNDRY
Distinctive Work
Hyland 190
Office 319 S. Main St.

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

BULBS
PLANT NOW

SPECIAL TRIAL ORDER OFFER
FOR THE OPEN GARDEN

6 P.-W's Hyacinths, mixed
6 Double Early Tulips, Named
6 Giant Darwin Tulips, mixed
6 Poet's Narcissus
6 Spanish Iris

Retail Value of Above, $2.60
All (Postpaid) For $2.00

Peonies, Phlox, Gaillardia, Shasta Daisies and scores of other hardy plants should be planted this Fall for best results. We carry the largest assortment of Fall Bulbs and Plants in the West.

Write for Free Catalog

Porter-Walton Co.
P.-W's Seed and Nursery Specialists
SALT LAKE CITY
"KNOWN ALL OVER THE STATE OF UTAH"
"We won't buy till we get our new home," or "we won't buy till we see if the children take their lessons." These are common "excuses" we meet—but both objections are now obliterated by our easy rental plan. Come in—see us about it. No obligation.
Apply all Rent on Later Purchase
Salt Lake City Telephones: Was. 5132 and Hyland 180 Ogden, 466 24th St. Telephone 821-W
In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience.
We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Autumn
Hold fast. My hand, and walk with me Far from the noisy town Where quiet fields all golden lie And leaves are russet brown.
'Tis autumn time, and on the hills The purple shadows lie While fleecy clouds like phantom ships Are sailing in the sky.
'Tis harvest time, and all around One breathes the perfumed air Of ripened fruits, and garnered grains, And clover blossoms rare.
Come, softly tread the fallen leaves, That carpet bright the ground, For thrushes and bright orioles Thrill all the world with sound.
'Tis now we learn most wondrous things These days that are the rarest, How in the harvest time of life, The years may be the fairest.
Then hold my hand, tf winter comes Along our lonely way We'll still recall the garnered sheaves, And scents, and sounds, and scarlet leaves, And little children's play.
—Annie Wells Cannon.
By Alfred Lambourne
AUTUMN

=== UNCOVERED TEXT ===
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XII OCTOBER, 1925 No. 10
The Editor Abroad
THE CITY OF ROME AND THE JUBILEE YEAR
By Alice L. Reynolds
Rome is above all else a city of churches. In the number and magnificence of its churches it doubtless exceeds all other cities of the world. Fortunate it is for the beauty and stability of these churches that Italy is the home of some of the best marble quarries, for the quarries of Italy produce not only a very fine quality of marble, but marble possessing a good many different colors. "We can't eat or burn our marble" was the cry of the Italian during the war. Very true, but they can and have made use of it to build most extraordinary churches. Rome has a reputation for fountains, and it deserves its reputation. The mere mention of its name doubtless brings to mind its seven hills, its yellow Tiber, its gigantic ruins, seen in the Colosseum and famous Roman baths. All these things are to be found in Rome, but they do not consume the attention of the traveler as do the churches; for heathen temples, Roman baths, and senate chambers have all, in turn, been converted into churches by the zealous Christians of the Eternal City. Indeed, the casual tourist, seems to find quite enough of everything he is led to expect to see in Rome. "I am completely 'fed up' on the Caesars," a young woman remarked in the hearing of one of our party. Not a member of our little group but who heard somebody say she had. Had enough of ruins and enough of churches in Rome. Yet these churches are not only very numerous; they are, also, very richly embellished with gold and silver and precious stones, brought from many climes. Yet far more precious than their gold and silver and rare and costly stones are the art treasures to be found in every part of the church. Yes, it is literally, every part, for their floors contain most interesting mosaics, while upon their walls and ceilings are paintings of the great masters of Italy. Great masters, are not idle words when one writes of Italian painters and Italian sculptors. It is doubtful whether at any other time in the world's history such an array of artistic talent has ever been
510 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
brought together as the group assembled to paint the churches of Florence and of Rome. It is the usual thing, perhaps, to connect pomp and ceremony with kings and queens and their courts. The years 1910 and 1911 staged a good deal of that sort of thing in Europe. Francis Joseph, of Austria, received during 1910, a goodly number of the crowned heads of Europe. In 1911 the king and queen of Italy rode through the land, in state, in recognition of the 40 years of Italian Unity. This also was the year of the coronation of King George and Queen Mary of England. Whether this was the last great spurt of display on the part of the royalty of Europe remains to be seen. However that may be, with the great World War much of that sort of thing passed away. Today, perhaps, pomp and ceremony exists more truly in the Roman and Greek Catholic churches than anywhere else. Be that as it may, one thing is certain, that such gorgeousness of costume is seldom seen as that in which the Pope and cardinals and high church officials appear at the various special ceremonials of the church. Such a blending of crimson and gold, purple and silver, white satin brocade and the like may hardly be seen elsewhere, as it is seen in the vestments of high church officials of the Roman Catholic and Greek Catholic churches. Exhibitions of these vestments are to be seen in Vienna and other Roman Catholic centers. They always attract attention because of the richness of material, the beauty of color and the great perfection of the embroidery. The celebration in Rome, in 1911, belonged to the King; this year it belongs to the Pope, consequently matters pertaining to the church are everywhere in evidence. In the emphasis of church matters the Rome of this year is different to the Rome of other years. This year is Jubilee year, or Holy year, in Rome. As the new year was ushered in, Pope Pius XI, in rich attire with the papal crown upon his head, approached the 'Porta Santo," or holy door of St. Peters, and knocking at it with a special hammer opened it for the first time in twenty-five years. Since that time pilgrims from every part of the world have been pouring through its portals. The church processional is almost a daily occurrence; one is almost sure to encounter it, if he visits St. Peters on Sunday, and on the other days of the week he is apt to do so. More than once we found ourselves part of a procession we had planned to be in. These pilgrims pass through this door with rosary in hand, chanting their prayers and kneeling before the various altars for special worship. Yet St. Peters is only one of a group of four churches in Rome that has a holy door. St. Paul's without the gate, St. John Lateran, and St. Maria Maggiore each has such a door, through which processions of pilgrims are daily passing. We were given to understand that the Roman Catholic who passes all four of these doors and also sees the Pope,
THE EDITOR ABROAD 511
according to regulations, is granted complete indulgence by the church. Our party passed through each of these doors in each of the churches, mainly from a belief that we shall not be in Rome the next time they are opened. Holy year has changed the appearance of the streets of Rome. Rome, that has always counted among its population a goodly number of priests and monks, as well as higher church officials, has greatly augmented that number during the present year. At present the streets of Rome are literally alive with men in priestly robes. One group may be wearing the scarlet robe of the student priest of Rome, another a black robe with purple or white-lined sash, perhaps one may meet a large delegation of visiting priests in the regulation robe and hat of black. We met such a group one afternoon when I counted two hundred and eighty, more were in sight but my companions intimated that I was keeping them waiting so I hastened on without knowing the exact number. The churches, too, have undergone changes for the year. St. Peters without shows the marks of age, as it has a right to do, but within it is all bright and new. It has been thoroughly cleansed and is ready to receive the thousands who assemble every week for special service or to take part in one of the church processionals. The beautiful paintings of Raphael and Guido Reni done in Mosaics upon its walls are seen in freshness by the assembled throng. In the churches some things are to be seen quite unusual in their character. In one we saw what we took to be the embalmed remains of a monk dressed in the brown robe and hood of his order. An electric light made it possible for one passing, to see, for his burial place was a crypt in the church. We were told that this monk was to be canonized, or in other words made a saint during this year. In another church, which we think at this writing was St. John Lateran, we saw a Pope with a gilded mask such as one sees covering the face of an Egyptian mummy, dressed in the complete costume in which a pope is dressed for burial. About his waist was a girdle to which symbols of his office were attached.
St. Peters at Rome
512 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
When we visited Assisi, the birthplace and burial place of St. Francis, the saint after whom the city of San Francisco is named, we found a priest in charge who has been called from his post of duty in New York, to act as guide to English speaking people visiting Assisi this year. The Pope is holding many audiences, both of a regular and a special character. As our party, consisting of Miss Elliott, Miss Ollorton, Miss Martain and myself, were at one of the regular audiences, we thought our readers might be interested in knowing something about what must be done in order to see the prisoner of the Vatican. It might not be amiss, before we continue, to call to mind why the Pope remains a prisoner in the Vatican. The Pope was at one time temporal monarch over a group of Italian states. When he was king of Rome he walked or drove through the city of Rome just as he chose. But with the coming of Victor Emanuel into Rome he had to relinquish his temporal power. The theory is that he is temporal ruler over the Vatican grounds, comprising St. Peters and the Vatican, and for this reason he retains a special guard at the palace. Just so long as the Pope does not step without the walls of the Vatican garden he is the subject of no earthly potentate. Should he step beyond the walls he would immediately become the subject of the Italian king. This he refuses to do, so that he is a self-imposed prisoner on behalf of a theory or belief the church wishes to maintain. The first thing our party did, in order to obtain an audience with the Pope, was to visit the American Consul in Rome, and make known our wish. He gave us a letter to the head of the American College, stating that we desired to attend one of the public audiences of the Pope. The head of the American College proved to be a very pleasant young priest who replied to our question in relation to the proper etiquette to be observed, that we must appear in black dresses, or at any rate dark ones, high at the neck and with sleeves to the wrist, and that we must wear a black mantilla over our heads. The next step was to present the letter given us at the college to one of the secretaries at the Vatican. After discovering the special door that leads to the Vatican and passing through it, and also by the Swiss guards, with their quaint antiquated suits of yellow and red, and sometimes other colors, we were admitted to an ante-room that led into the room where the secretary was to be found. There were many persons in the line ahead of us so that we had a long wait. Finally we were admitted, only to begin another long wait. Miss Elliott did say something about the patience of Job, I think, but at last our turn came to state our desire. We were led to believe that our card of invitation would likely be for Wednesday, consequently we were not a little surprised to receive at our hotel Sunday evening, tickets of admittance for Monday accompanied by a little folder telling us how we should be dressed. The question of providing the appropriate costume caused considerable sport among ourselves. We were not all carrying black dresses or even dark dresses, so we looked about to see what might be done by way of borrowing from one another. Miss Elliott, our specialist on dress, looked over the possibilities. Finally by filling up the necks of our dresses with pieces of black crepe-de-chine and lengthening out the sleeves with the same material, we were able to comply with the request of officials; art considerations waived, your humble correspondent, I think, was the most conspicuous in this "fix up," for she was one of the group without a dark dress, so that she had to borrow Miss Elliott's, that proved to be longer than regulation fashion and rather larger all over than the case required. Finally we started in a Roman taxi-cab. On our way we had to stop at a shop near the Vatican, and get our mantillas, which had been arranged for the day before. The rent of the mantilla cost five liras, which is equivalent to 20c in American money at the present rate of exchange. Donning our mantillas we made our way to the Vatican. We thought we were a dowdy looking group but we passed inspection as subsequent events go to show. Presenting our tickets, once more, we passed the portals of the historic building, and once again we walked by the colorful Swiss guards, up a flight of stairs only to be met by some persons detailed to take our wraps. From there we passed through a large room into another large room with a cold-looking marble floor. In this room a good many people were assembled. Finally the rather sombre-appearance of the room was relieved by the entrance of a very fine looking man, in a magenta suit of brocade velvet with trousers to the knee and silk hose to match. We recognized him as one of the officials. We had been told that we might expect such a person, who would look over our costume, very carefully, and see if it was quite right. Consequently, when he came towards us we were just a little fearful. However, he beckoned us to follow him, which we did, into one of the richly carpeted and richly furnished rooms of the palace. While we have joked not a little, among ourselves, about this official approving of our dress, way down in our hearts we have been led to wonder whether the favor showed us, for we really feel that we were favored, did not come from the fact that he probably recognized us as Americans and perhaps had it in his heart to extend such courtesy as was in his power to the citizens of a nation who had not forgotten Europe in her hour of dire necessity. Whatever his motive, we were favored, for in a few moments we were advanced to another room where we were placed opposite the door where
514 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Pope makes his first entrance for an audience, consequently we were able to see him for a few minutes before he came into the room that we occupied. One matter that attracts attention on an occasion of this sort is that a goodly number of persons take rosaries with them into the room to be blessed by the Pope. Roman Catholics undoubtedly do so for themselves and their relatives, while Protestants often do it that they may have an especially acceptable gift for a Roman Catholic friend. It was now a few minutes to one, the hour for the audience. Things began to shape. A number of young men put on the costumes of the special military guard, and arranged themselves in true military style against the wall. A moment later the Pope's secretary appeared, in a lavender-purple costume that with its lavish trimmings made it truly gorgeous. Now all was expectation. In a moment the Pope appeared in a costume consisting of a white broadcloth robe and cap of the Roman Catholic monk. Around his waist was a girdle bearing the insignia of office, St. Peter's keys that are found, always in the coat-of-arms of the Vatican. On the third finger of his right hand he wore the historic gold ring with the famous blue stone. We saw him pass about the room directly in front of us; then he came into the room. The
A Swiss Guard
THE EDITOR ABROAD 515
etiquette of an audience requires that persons shall kneel when the Pope enters. Beginning with the person near him on the right, the Pope passed along placing the four fingers of his right hand on the back of the right hand of the person he was greeting. Such a clasp makes it possible for persons who care to kiss the ring to do so. Roman Catholics usually do. Protestants perhaps more often, than not, feel the handclasp and the Pope passes on, all is carried on in such a fashion that both the Pope and the Protestant are saved embarrassment. After the Pope had greeted everyone in the room, separately, he went into the corner nearing the next room he was approaching, and repeated some Latin phrases which were responded to by the Roman Catholics in the room. He was evidently blessing them and blessing the rosary that they carried. This experience recalled a story that Francis Marion Crawford, the American author, used to tell in his public lectures. He said that in the time of Pius IX, some Protestant youths appeared in line one day who refused to bow, the Pope said to them gently in passing, "Would you refuse the blessing of an old man," at which suggestion the youth conformed to regulations. The same thing occurred during the time of Leo XIII. The young men appeared to him to be standing in open defiance, and, without ceremony, the Pope called the guards, saying to them as they appeared, "Remove those statues into the corridors," and they were removed. On Tuesday of the same week that we were admitted to the audience a special service was held at St. Peters at which the Pope presided. All members of our party were given tickets, but as it appeared to mean donning the black gowns again, two members said that inasmuch as they had already seen the Pope they 'would let that suffice. Miss Elliott and I attended the service. Presenting our large and colorful cards of admittance we passed into St. Peters and found ourselves in a crowd, or rather a "jam." Before the service began several persons had to be taken out, who were quite overcome, because of the closeness of the room. One lady who attended a special service there, told us that in her attempt to put her hand into her own pocket, she put it into the pocket of her neighbor, a thing that would be very easy to do. However, after what seemed to us a rather long wait, because all were standing, the curtains were drawn apart at one of the side doors that leads from St. Peters into the Vatican. A procession headed by church dignitaries, of high order, in magnificent church vestments began a slow march towards the high or papal altar in St. Peters. Immediately after came the Pope, borne aloft in his highly ornamented gold car by a group of young' men in scarlet costumes, who carried the car on their shoulders. As the Pope appeared to the multitude they clapped. He waved his hand first to the right and then to the left, he was bestowing the papal blessing. As the car neared the altar the Pope descended and AN ELABORATE CHURCH PROCESSION took charge of the service. His costume on this occasion was much more elaborate than on the occasion of the audience, more perhaps like that of an earthly potentate, and less like that of a priest. Special services and special ceremonies understood and esteemed by the Roman Catholics have characterized Holy Year. Perhaps some notion of the sort of thing that has claimed the interest of the church, frequently, during this year may be had from the following item that appeared in a European newspaper under date of July 13, 1925: Home—Sunday. The last of the numerous ceremonies of canonization and beatification planned for this, the Holy Year, took place at St. Peters today, when the Pope closed the ceremonies for the beatification of Pierre Julien Eymard, the French founder of the congregation of priests and nuns of the Holy Sacrament.
