The Greater Love." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1932, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader, who was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, Massachusetts, and died in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 5, 1887. | The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others, except upon written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, Page 14 paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine tate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred and twenty poems submitted in this year's contest, as compared with one hundred and twelve entered last year. Many of the poems submitted this year revealed beauty of thought, and nearly all of the subjects of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant theme. Entries from nineteen states, the Dominion of Canada, and Hawaii, were represented in the contest, the largest number of entries coming from Utah. The first prize winner this year has received awards many times in the Eliza R. Snow Poem contest; the second prize winner was awarded first prize last year; and the third prize winner this year places for the first time in the contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prizewinning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, _together with photographs and _biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. Prize -Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD First Prize Poem No Barren Bough Eva Willes Wangsgaard If you were here I would not mind the whiteness That threatens path and twig... And fading hair. Your eyes were focused always on the brightness, Too full of joy to notice boughs were bare. Snow-laden limbs were only April-burdened To you who saw in them the petaled vines, And crystal pasture lands were summer-guerdoned _ While siskins threaded scarlet through the pines. Maturity should be a time for sharing The blue of vine, the gold of stem and root, For stripping branches overlate in bearing And savoring together frosted fruit. No barren bough I dread nor aging bone, But withered fruits that I must pluck alone. Page 15 Page 16 Second Prize Poem Goodbye to Her Son Sylvia Probst Young She held the boy's brown hand; his sad young face Was marked with pain, he was so young to know The weight of grief. She had no will to go And leave him there in such a lonely place. He was her son, she understood his moods, His thirst for knowledge that she, too, had known, A restless longing so much like her own; His love for quiet forest solitudes. She spoke his name; the boy beside her bed Heard the soft whispered words, "Be always kind To Sarah and your father, dear, and find Time for the Lord and love him, Abe," she said. One tallow candle glimmered on the air, And sent its yellow light up like a prayer. Could she have seen how he would walk with truth Through all his years, a leader for the right, Guiding his nation through its darkest night, Remembering the teachings of his youth, And kneeling as he knelt beside her knee, Finding the greatest strength against despair Within the peaceful realms of secret prayer, Gaining his greatness in humility. Could she have seen that President, her son, Speaking her name with heartfelt gratitude, Giving her praise for all he knew of good, She would have known her earth work was well done. She held the boy's brown hand—then night was gone, For peace came gently—gently as the dawn. Rss SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG ELEANOR W. SCHOW Third Prize Poem She Greater Love Eleanor W. Schow Where men lay down their lives for men The earth is comforted. No fen Or sodden marsh where fever lies Is left unblessed; God sanctifies The soil, makes his own blossoms grow; Dry desert winds more kindly blow. The rock becomes an altar stone Where man makes sacrifice alone; All fears and lusts are swept away; His deed has purified his clay. The stars beneath high heaven's dome Are candles in the halls of home. The opaline veil of heaven is rent, And through the rift a ray is sent To guide the loved returning son, His guerdon sure, his glory won. Morning stars chant of One, esteemed For vows fulfilled, and souls redeemed; And always Jesus walks again Where men lay down their lives for men. Page |7 .