[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: THE BETTER TIME TO COME. | Author: M. E. K]

THE BETTER TIME TO COME.

	(Written by John W. Hutchinson, and sung by
him at the National-American Woman Suffrage
Convention, after Mrs. Stanton's address, Wash-
ington D. C. February, 1890.)

I may not be a prophet, but methinks I feel the time
When freedom's breath shall fan the cheek of all in every
	clime.
When labor shall be virtue and religion shall be truth.
And all earth's sons and daughters shall enjoy a trusting
	youth.

I may not be a prophet, yet is not the era near,
When the church shall cease to rule men through dogma's
	creed of fear,
When human life and nature's laws in harmony entwined
Shall be the base of better lives—the Christ of all man-
	kind.

I may not be a prophet, but the glorious time's at hand,
In which the nations shall combine, in one harmonious
	band.
That day will see one God, one church, one government on
	earth,
The long-expected golden age, the newer second birth.

I may not be a prophet, but the time will surely come
When through much tribulation we'll scourge the demon
	Rum.
The monster's trembling at the door—brothers, sisters,
	now unite,
And if we strike together we'll conquer in the fight.

I may not be a prophet, but the time is almost here
When the woman with the man shall stand, and take her
	proper sphere.
Restricted and oppressed she's been, through all the ages
	past,
Thank God, the star of hope shines clear—she will be free
	at last.


[Column 1]
SINCERITY.
	Sincerity is a quality we highly prize in
the circles of friendship; and as we learn that
we are made in the image of God, we readily
believe this to be one of His attributes, for He
says, those who worship Him must worship in
spirit and in truth.
	Can any one read the history of our Lord
and Savior without a feeling of love and ad-
miration enlivening every fiber of the soul.
This I call the genuine love of God, the effects
produced by the good spirit;  this spirit en-
larges the understanding and enlightens the
mind, with it we can comprehend, many of
our Savior's teachings which look cloudy or
dark before, and really feel a spirit of en-
thusiasm for the great and good work that
Jesus came to accomplish. And as far as we
get intelligence in this work the greater is our
joy.
	There is a spirit of enthusiasm prevailing
of late which I think is quite commendable;
especially when reading in the paper of the
Idaho test case, also the bill introduced by
Senator Stewart of Vermont desiring the
Mormons not only disfranchised, but also not
permitted to make their homes on public lands,
simply because we are Mormons.  And what
is a Mormon?  One whom the Lord has given
intelligence to prepare for His second advent
to the earth, by keeping more strictly all His
commandments.  We certainly could not be
prepared without doing this.
	Shall we then cower under misrepresenta-
tion, which is as much as to say we are stupid
and ignorant, low-lived and mean, which we
know we are not.  The principles we believe
and cherish are quite the opposite.  And now
since there must be an opposite in all things
which side of the question is the right side and
the one to cleave to and sustain?  Well let an
earnest and persevering zeal for right be ours,
in all sincerity of heart, for we must pay
strict heed to the laws of Jesus Christ if we
are worthy to be called by His name, in doing

[Column 2]
this we never fail only when we carelessly
make a mistake.  I look upon these rules as I
do upon a problem of Arithmetic, if we fail
to obtain the true result we find by looking
over the work that we did not add, or multi-
ply, or subtract correctly.
	Then when we see the mistake, we soon find
all is right, for the rule is a perfect one, and all
who will make themselves perfectly acquainted
with it are benefited by its theory; but we need
to be active and sincere in all our researches
in religion as also in science, for things done
at the halves are never well done, we will
surely make a mistake and have need to look
over and correct the same.
	I think I hear it said the Liberal party
are to be our rulers now.  Is it not humiliat-
ing?  Yes indeed it is.  But it must be our
fault, or we need more humility.  We can not
be true Latter-day Saints without this quality.
The Lord has said He resists the proud but He
gives grace to the humble.  If we would please
our Father we must not lose sight of His laws,
for He is angry with none excepting those
who will not acknowledge His hand in all
things.  Can we do this, it is a nice point to
arrive at.
	It is just forty years since I embraced the
principles of this gospel, and I do surely know
that the gifts and graces which characterized
the ancient Church have never failed, when we
are what we should be ourselves.  But St.
Paul said that "We are subject to vanity as
the sparks which fly upward."  Accordingly
we need great caution and care to keep a well
balanced mind and a sincere and devoted zeal
to the cause of truth, then our Father in
heaven can give us the light and intelligence
of His holy spirit which gives every thing its
proper value and all its proper place.
	This is indeed the true riches and also the
most needful for us to profess. 
							M. E. K.


