CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
			AND WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.
	As per adjournment the Utah Constitutional
Convention met in the City Hall, Tuesday, Oct.
9, at 10 a.m, Hon. Joseph F. Smith President
in the chair. A majority of the delegates were
present. The roll was called and the chaplain,
W. W. Cluff, offered prayer. The President an-
nounced the death of Hon. L E. Harrington, 
First Vice-President of the Conventiton, which
occured since the last session, on June 21, 1883.
The President apointed as a committee to draft
a suitable expressino of the sentiments of the
Convention occasioned by his death, Hon. John
E. Booth, Provo, Arthur Stayner, Farmington,
and Joseph E. Stanford, Ogden. Committee
reported teh following resolutions:

	Whereas, Providence in its wisdom has, since
our last meeting, removed from us our highly 
respected Brother, the Hon. L. E. Harrington,
senior vice president of this Convention.
	Therefore be if Reselved, by this body, in con-
vention assembled, that while we sincerely de-
plore the absence of our beloved brother, we
acknowledge with pleasure the nobility of soul
and manliness of purpose which ever actuated
him in his walk in public life. He was a man
known intimately to the public for upwards of
35 years, during which time he, to an eminent
degree, enjoyed the entire and richly laden con-
fidence of the public. In a political capacity in 
which this body has more particularly known
him, we realize that he was strictly honest, un-
selfish, broad in his views, sanguine for the good
of the people, undeviating in what he recog-
nized as the right course. He served the Terri-
tory as a Legislator consecutively for 80 years
having been elected to the first Assembly.
	Resolved, That in the demise of our colleague
this Territory has lost a staunch advocate for
the rights of the people, a conscientious citizen
and a Christian gentleman.
	Resolved--That we extend our sympathies to
the family and relatives of our deceased friend,
and that a copy of these resolutions be furnished
to his family and be published in the Utah pa-
pers.
	Hon. John T. Caine moved that the report of 
the committee be accepted and resolutions adop-
ted as the sentiments of the Convention.
	Attention was called to the vacancy in the of-
fice caused by the death of Mr. Harrington, and
Mr. Caine nominated Hon. A. O. Smoot as
First Vice-President of the Convention. Sec-
onded and unanimously carried, and Mr. Smoot
took the Vice-President's chair. 
	The committee on nominations, appointed
June 6, presented the following report:
	Mr. President and Members of the Conven-
tion:
	Gentlemen-- Your committee on nominations
to whom was referred the duty of nominating a
successor to Hon. Wm. H. Hooper, deceased, as
member of the Constitutional Delegation to
Washington, beg leave to report and recom-
mend that Hon. Moses Thatcher be elected by
the Convention as delegate to fill said vacancy.
				D. H. WELLS,
				A. O. SMOOT,
				L. JOHA NUTTALL,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			 Committee on Nominations. 
	Which was read and, on motion of Mr. Tan-
ner, accepted and the recommendation thereof
unanimously adopted, and Honorable Moses
Thatcher appointed.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose presented the following:
	Mr. President--I move that in case of a va-
cancy occurring in the Delegation to Washing-
ton from any cause, or if any member thereof
is unable to attend to the duties of Delegate,
during the adjournment of this Convention the
President be authorized to fill the vacancy by
appointment, Carried.
	Committee on printing presented their report
as follows:
	Mr. President-- Your committee on printing 
respectfully report that the reports of the Dele-
gates to Washington and of the committee on
statistics have been printed as ordered by the
Convention.		C. W. Nibley, Chairman.
	Mr. Nuttall presented the following mo-
tion:
	I move that when this Convention adjourns-- 
it be to meet at the place on Monday, April 7th,
1881, at 7 o'clock p.m. unless sooner called to-
gether by the President. 	Carried.
	After the reading and approving of the jour-
nal, on motion of Mr. Caine, the Convention ad-
journed.
	The committee appointed to present the Con-
stitution to Congress will probably be able to do
some real practical work in Washington this
coming winter, There can be no good reason
why Utah should not be admitted as a State.
Every condition that the Declaration of Inde-
pendence requires has been complied with and
yet the people are compelled to submit to have a 
Governor and other officials appointed without
their approval or consent, who come here full
of bitter feeling and prejudice to take charge of
the affairs of the Territory.
	However, it is only a question of time, for the
thrift and prosperity of the people, and the con-
stantly increasing products and resources of
Utah are bound to be recognized yet in such a 
way that it will be impossible to debar her peo-
ple from such self-government as statehood
will allow them. When Utah is admitted into
the Union as a State with a Woman's Suffrage
plank in its platform, the women of Utah will
perhaps be acknowledged as having a place
among the women of the nation, which is now
ignored. The newspapers tell us a great deal
about Women Suffrage in Wyoming, and that
women vote on school questions in seven differ-
ent States, and so forth and so on, but Utah,
where women have voted for more than twelve
years, is scarce considered; forsooth, because
"Mormon" women vote. Are not  "Mormon" 
women's votes as good as those of "Mormon"
men? And neither men nor women are allowed
to cast a vote, or hold an office of any kind if they
are now, or ever have been living in the practice
of plural marriage. Are there not people in the
world who hold what might be termed hetero-
doxical views of marriage? Indeed there are,
but they are not religious views! Now that all
this class of  "Mormons" are disfranchised, (un-
standponit) what can there be so distasteful
about woman suffrage here that it  cannot be
spoken of with other States and Territories in
that connection? Certainly the women of Utah
are as honest, as upright, as conscientious, as in-
dustrious, as temperate, as amiable as the
women of other parts of the Commonwealth.


It can only be the same sort of prejudice tha
existed in the days of our Savior, when it was
said, "Can any good thing come out of N[-]z[-]-
reth?" But notwithstanding all this hatred and
bitterness, woman's star is in the ascendency,
and the women of Zion will yet be among the
foremost in lifting a banner to the nations that
will be worthy of recognition. And men will
be purer and better socially and politically in
consequence of the advance made by the women
who are engaged in the struggle for equal po-
litical rights. We hope that during the coming
winter some rapid strides may be made towards
the consummation so ardently desired by all
woman suffragists, the passage of the sixteenth
amendment. It takes time to convert the peo-
ple to these new ideas on the subject of voting;
for only a few yet comprehend the advantages
to be derived from woman's influence in poli-
tics.


