PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	The board of health was indeed just what
the name indicated and even to this day the
good results of the methods Dr. Richards
taught are evident. They have never been
forgotten by those who had the opportunity
of receiving direct from him some ideas of the
knoweldge and experience he had gained by
means of a long and successful practice, and
also through giving heed to the suggestive
whisperings of the spirit and the exercise of
faith in God. He was an Apostle, holding the
holy priesthood, with power to administer in
all the ordinances of the same, and he was not
only willing but anxious to help forward all
who desired to become acquainted with the
principles he so well understood. He realized
that the gift of healing was a power, especial-
ly when combined with works adapted to the
circumstances of the case, and he felt that it
was quite necessary that those who officiated
among the sick, especially midwives, ought to
have all the blessings that could be conferred
upon them by those holding the keys of the
priesthood of God upon the earth.
	Accordingly he laid his hands upon the
heads of a number of the sisters who had pre-
pared themselves to act as midwives and also
administering to the sick and afflicted and set
them apart for this very office and calling, and
blest them with power to officiate in that ca-
pacity as handmaids of the Lord. Among
the number set apart at that time Sister Pres-
endia was one who received the blessing, and
from that day to this she has realized the
power and influence it conferred in her daily
administerings, not only when she has been
called upon to act as a midwife, but when
washing and anointing and blessing the sisters.
	There were other sisters set apart and blest
at the same time, among whom were Sisters
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Laura Pitkin Kim-
ball, who were set apart to administer to the
sick. They appreciated this blessing for they
had implicit faith in the power of the priest-
hood.
	Sister Presendia says, "Sometime in the fall
of 1851 I was in delicate health and was
obliged to retire from the duties of the
Endowment House which had been so
beneficial to me, though I still felt the
blessings I had received therein accompanied
me to my home and in the daily routine of dai-
ly life. I was so happy I scarcely knew how to
be thankful enough for the blessings God had
bestowed upon me, and I rejoiced by day and
by night and looked forward like Elizabeth of
old to the time of my deliverance."
	"On December 22, 1851, my son Joseph Smith
Kimball was born. He was like an Isaac of
old to me.' I had been favored of the Lord to

[Column 2]
have a son born in the new and everlasting
covenant, and I looked upon it as a great
blessing to be thus honored.
	I was living in the adobie row just on the
north side of City Creek, where the first home
Heber C. Kimball built in the valley was sit-
uated. It was very comfortable compared
with what we had been acustomed to since
leaving our homes. It was there my son
Joseph was born, and I was so anxious that
he should grow up in the nurture and admon-
ition of the Lord that I prayed continually
that I might have wisdom to teach him those
things that would be for his highest good, that
he might grow up to be an honor and a bless-
ing in the Kingdom of God. I know now
that my prayers were heard, and I feel that
the Lord has been very merciful to me, and
that though many of my sons were taken away
when young, yet this one has been spared to
me, and in my old age he is my stay and com-
fort, and I expect he will assist me in my work
for the dead in the Temples of the Lord. He
grew to manhood under Gospel influence, for
I never lost sight of the promise I had made
to the Lord to train him up to do His bidding.
I have had more joy, more comfort and more
satisfaction in this one son, who was born in
this celestial order of marriage in the new and
everlasting covenant, than in all the other
children I have borne. He is to me an Isaac
indeed, and I feel to thank God that He gave
me so good and so noble a gift, and I acknowl-
edge His hand in all my trials and afflictions,
and realize that He has guided me safely
through, and that in my declining years I am
reaping the reward promised to the obedieut
and those who keep the commandments of God
without murmuring, and who endure persecu-
tion through evil report as well as good."


