BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I had nearly forgotten our artist, Brother
Major, from England, who commenced in the
summer of 1845 to paint our family group.
It was upon a large canvas, tastefully ar-
ranged,—my father and mother sitting with
baby in the centre,—myself at her side and
my brother William with his wife and little
daughter on the left, and four younger
brothers made up the family group. I sat for
mine more than any of the rest, and the face
was nearly completed before it was taken off
the frame to be packed away, which was done
only a short time previous to our leaving Nau-
voo. One of the same size, with President B.
Young and family was begun at the same time
—the latter I saw but a short time previous to
Sister Young's death—also another with the
First Presidency, B. Young, H. C. Kimball
and W. Richards, and the Twelve Apostles
sitting in council, whsch was hanging there in
the same unfinished state, Brother Major hav-
ing died many years ago.
	The following incidents close this volume of
my father's journal; and though he may have
continued it through the rest of the month, we
have not been able to find any clue to it. But
being a frequent visitor at the Temple I can
testify to the faithfulness of my father and
mother, and many more of my brethren and
sisters, who continued laboring there without
ceasing until the evening of February 3rd,
at which time my marriage took place. The
great work which the Lord had predicted
through the Prophet Joseph should be done in
that house was fulfilled in spite of all the
threats and the snares set by His foes to pre-
vent it.
	"January 7th. This morning there was an
immense crowd at the reception room waiting
for admission into the washing and anointing
rooms. The brethren came along bearing ves-
sels filled with all kinds of provisions for the
use of those attending to the ordinances of the
Lord's House. The supply is much greater
than the consumption. 	*		*		*
The supply of provisions brought in to-day has
been very abundant, and much of it has been
sent away to those families that are desti-
tute.	*		*		*		*		*
	"A letter was received this morning from
Mr. Tucker, the Catholic priest, informing us
that the Bishop could not raise money enough
to purchase our property, but would either pur-
chase or rent one of our public buildings, but
would not insure it against fire or mobs. A
council was held in Pres. Young's room, and
the letter was taken into consideration." The
result of their deliberation, it seems, was that
they would not answer the letter, that the
Catholics might go their own way, for they
would have no more to do with them. At six
o'clock that evening, he says, "The High
Priests held their different meetings in rooms
Nos. 8 and 10." After putting down each
name he continues, "The three meetings were
conducted by persons chosen in each one to
preside, and all the individuals in them were
clothed in priestly apparel, and the greatest
unanimity of feeling prevailed. The most
prominent things prayed for were, the preser-
vation of President B. Young and all the
Twelve, and that the ordinances of the endow-
ment might continue until all the Elders had
received their washings and anointings, and
that the Saints might all be able to procure
means by which they could remove from Nau-
voo to the west in a comfortable manner, and
for the sick, that they may be healed—and that
God would disappoint our enemies in all their
plans."
	He speaks of Sister Ann M. Foster going

[Column 2]
home about that time with her little boy,
Lucian R. Foster, Jr., "having been in the
Temple all the time since yesterday noon. Her
little boy was quite sick when she came, but
went away quite well." On the Sunday pre-
vious she brought him to the Temple, and at
the request of Brother Foster my father, Pres.
Young and P. P. Pratt laid their hands upon
him and pronounced upon him many blessings,
and among them that of life and health.
	"About 9 o'clock this evening Elder H. C.
Kimball and his wife, Bishop Whitney and
his wife left the Temple and went to Joseph
Kingsbury's to remain until William Kimball
should carry a load of persons, viz: L. R. Fos-
ter, Horace Whitney and Mary Ellen Harris
to their respective homes. After which he re-
turned and carried home his father and mother
in the carriage with the grey horses. Bishop
Whitney and his wife went home also in the
same carriage. President Brigham Young left
the Temple about 10 o'clock and went home
for the night."
	"This afternoon and evening the new altar
was used for the first time,—four individuals
and their wives were sealed. The altar is
about 2 ½ feet high and 2 ½ feet long and about
8 or 9 inches wide,	*		*		*		are
covered with cushions of scarlet damask
cloth. The Twelve and the Bishops with their
wives were present at the dedication this after-
noon." This closes his journal.
	Sister Mary Ellen Harris, mentioned above,
is living here in Salt Lake City, and is one of
my father's widows, and is known and respect-
ed by hundreds, not only for her faithfulness
to the Gospel, but for her many qualities of
head and heart. She has testified to me that
she was sealed in that Temple to my father,
and that she chose him because he was a man
of God, though her heart was grieved that she
should cause Sister Vilate Kimball one pang,
but felt that if she did not take this step her
own glory would be clipt. My mother, hear-
ing how Mary Ellen felt, caused her for ever
after to feel kindly towards her. There were
over twenty women sealed to my father in that
Temple for the same conscientious reasons ex-
pressed by Sister Mary Ellen; and five of them
were taken as the wives of the Prophet Joseph.
Those women were actuated by the one princi-
ple, salvation and exaltation in our Father's
Kingdom; though three or four became disaf-
fected in consequence of their light becoming
darkness, and they had not sufficient grace,
therefore, apostacy was the result. One who
left him in a rash moment never denied the
faith, and she speedily repented the step. It
was but a few years after, when afflicted with
an incurable disease, that she came to one of
his wives, Harriet S. Kimball, desiring the
privilege of remaining under his roof, where
she was received and nursed tenderly by Har-
riet, till death came to her release. I believe
that his wives were all honest when they took
this step. All had refused offers from single
men, and no earthly inducements were held
out to them to enter the plural order. They
were given to understand that this was to be a
life of trial and sacrifice, and no one was forced
to enter into this order only by the power of
the Holy Ghost, which bringing, as it did, con-
viction to their hearts, I may say did compel
them to accept and obey it. Pure and exalted
was their aim—they saw a glory which they
could not attain to accept they obeyed this ce-
lestial law, of which they would know nothing,
nor can they ever understand it only by that
same spirit, which will reveal all things to the
humble and contrite. To enter this much
talked of order (which those who openly sus-
tain and foster all manner of licentiousness
and crimes, professing to look upon it with such
holy horror, and enact laws to destroy us and
our family relations) is the first and grandest
step towards advancement in that great and

[Column 3]
purifying plan laid down by the Almighty, and
I know that it is a divine institution, and that
it places women as well as men upon a higher
plane, and will more quickly free her from that
bondage and curse which fell upon her through
transgression, than any other, and that the ones
who practice and advocate it will be the first
to stand again as man's equal, as did our first
mother, Eve, in the garden of Eden. Though
many blunders have been made by the inex-
perienced and wrongs committed by individu-
als, which they will be called to answer for
sooner or later, I can testify to the purity of
the principle, and that it is God-like in its
fruits, and has a tendency to expand the soul,
and to raise our thoughts and desires above the
groveling things of earth, which, through the
many generations that have passed away, has
become corrupt, narrow and contracted. The
ones who practice it as a God-given principle
become more pure and lofty in every thought
and desire; their aspirations reach to some-
thing higher than the gratification of earthly
lusts and those who remain true and virtuous
will continue to progress in the higher walks
throughout time and all eternities; while those
who reject it, and set themselves up to judge
and condemn and revile against the ones who
passing through the fiery ordeals, that are
necessary to purify and prepare us to enter
those higher grades, of which they know
nothing, having never crossed even the thres-
hold, will have dwindled and passed away, and
been forgotten, even "like chaff upon the sum-
mer threshing floor." They refuse to believe
facts though we publish and send them out in-
to the world, desiring them to know things just
as they are. We do not proclaim these things in
a boasting spirit, nor in and of ourselves, but
in the strength of Him to whose promises and
truths we have clung for more than fifty years,
and the latter are our most powerful weapons
against all the vile slander that can be raised
against us; and our faith is that we shall still
go on conquering and to conquer. We can
anticipate the feelings of our persecuters when
the truth breaks in upon them, and they awake
to their own condition; and the Lord knows
that they already have my sympathies.

To be Continued.


