UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held August 31st,
1883, Counselor Mary John presiding. Visi-
tors from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells, H. M. Whitney and E. S.
Taylor.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, reading of minutes and
reports of the societies throughout the county.
	Counselor Mary John made a few remarks,
in which she expressed her pleasure at meeting
with the sisters in conference again, and re-
gretted that we were deprived, through sick-
ness, of having Ma Smoot or Sister Cluff with
us; she would say that with the help of the
Lord she was determined to hold out faithful
to the end.
	Sister E. B. Wells was pleased with the re-
ports of Utah County, thought they would
compare favorably with any other reports she
had ever heard in any Conference of Relief
Society that she had attended. Said it was
wonderful to think the good these societies
were doing. There is power in the women of
Zion in helping the Priesthood; exhorted the
sisters to be more punctual in attending these
meetings. Spoke in the interest of the Deseret
Hospital and of the good it was doing for the
afflicted, and explained its practical workings,
invited the sisters to renew their membership,
etc.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith said she was al-

[Column 3]

ways pleased to meet with the sisters in a con-
ference capacity. The Spirit of God brings
enjoyment, and when we unite together we
draw down the blessings of heaven. What a
blessing these organizations are, they bring us
together, like coals of fire, imparting warmth
and life to one another. There is a mutual
love that actuates these sisters towards each
other. We should realize our positions, and
so live that our examples would have an enno-
bling influence; let us put away our follies that
we may be worthy to join with holy beings, we
are not far from them. We must get rid of
all selfishness; let us become God-like that we
may be saviors on Mount Zion. We want to
live to do good, and the heavens rejoice over
us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor followed with some very
good remarks on various subjects. The Relief
Societies, Y. L. M. I. Associations, Primaries,
etc. Advised mothers to watch over their
children, give them good counsel and advice,
and use their influence in having them join
these societies.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer, Sister E. R. Snow Smith presiding.
Said she would like to hear from the presi-
dents of the different societies, just as the
spirit dictated. We should always bear our
testimony when occasions offer, those testimo-
nies never grow old, for we know not that we
will be able to testify the same to-morrow that
we do to-day, for many have fallen away from
the truth.
	A number of the presidents bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of this work.
	Sister H. M. Whitney said, she could bear
her testimony to the truth of this work, "and
without we each have a testimony for our-
selves we can never stand. I love the saints
of God. We must be humble and prayerful
and live near to God and if we have weak-
nesses try to overcome them, and press forward
and draw our loved ones after us. I cannot
doubt this Gospel any more than I can doubt
my existence. Any one that will step for-
ward and sustain celestial marriage will be
blest in so doing; let us be united, for in union
there is power."
	Sister E. S. Taylor gave the sisters good
instructions, especially young mothers, in re-
gard to their children. Spoke of her knowl-
edge of the truth of celestial marriage, and
the result of it in her owu family.
	Sister E. B. Wells said, I think we have
had excellent teachings. Spoke of Doctor
Barney's offer to teach, and thought the sis-
ters should avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties given for instruction, as we were very de-
ficient in good midwives and nurses, more es-
pecially in the outlying settlements, and Dr.
Barney's offer was not often met with; said we
need to study to promote the prolongation of
human life, and how to be more healthy and
strong. We want to raise men and women
physically strong as well as intellectually and
morally so. Made intelligent remarks upon
this subject, as also upon education; advised
the sisters to become acquainted with law and
government, that those who had the privilege
of voting might do so understandingly.
	Sister Snow Smith said, I want to talk about
this medical school. There will never be such
an offer again; we ought to have 1,000 sisters
learning. We want knowledge. Death often
ensues just from the want of knowledge. We
should be up and doing. Woe to those that
are at ease in Zion. If the sisters can call
back to life the sleepy ones it will be a great
work; spoke eloquently upon this subject for
some little time.
	Bishops Johnson and Madsen both bore
their testimonies to the truth of this work and
also eudorsed all that had been said by the


sisters; exhorted all to live near to the Lord
and gain a testimony for themselves.
	Sister Duke could bear her testimony that
this was the work of God, and rejoiced there-
in.
	By request of Sister Snow Smith the sisters
sang the song, "I dreamed a dream." Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


