NOTES AND NEWS.
Princess Beatrice has agreed to furnish, at a
given price, some pencil sketches for an Eng-
glish monthly.
	Miss Sybil Carter spoke on Mormonism at
the Boston Ministers’Meeting in Pilgrim Hall,
last week. The hall was crowded.
	Mrs. Mary B. Clay, of Kentucky, has re-
moved to Ann Arbor, Mich., to secure educa-
tional advantages for her children.
	"The women needed a rebuke,” says a
friendly cotemporary, because some of them
asked for a governor who would not veto a bill
conceding a fraction of their political rights.
--Ex.
	It is thought that if women were eligible
for Parliament, Mrs. Fawcett would be the
first chosen. She was one of the four Misses
Garrett, two of whom distinguished themselves
as decorative furnishers and designers.--Ex.
	A Norwegian Methodist Church has been
organized in Salt Lake City, with a member-
ship of twenty-five members. A Norwegian
pastor has been obtained from Chicago, and a
lady as a teacher. It is supposed that there are
7,000 Scandinavians in Salt Lake City, and
30,000 in Utah.—Ex. This is pretty good testi-
mony that there is religious tolerance in
Utah. Different religious sects: come here 
and build up their churches and seek to
make convents unprevented.
	The autumn leaves are now donning their
gorgeous array. In the canyons, the beautiful
tints are so diversified that one cannot choose
between them; they remind one of a bevy of
beautiful girls, some possessing one charm and
some another, but all wonderully fascinating
and attractive. Not only are the hills and
mountain sides glorious in their foliage at this
season in flaming red and flaunting yellow,
with all the peculiar shades and variations, but
one can appropriate much of this beauty to the
adornment of the home. The grouping and
arranging of autumn leaves is a sort of dec-
orative art, and has a very pretty effect, espe-
cially when they are artistically woven or fash-
ioned in fanciful designs. Nature does much
towards making our homes pleasant, by fur-
nishing us the flowers, the leaves, the vines
the evergreens, the autumn leaves and winter
berries. Life is not devoid of beauty, nor of
pleasure, if one will accept the simple delights
of nature. 
	Woman suffrage in Massachusetts.—Demo-
cratic: “We believe in equal rights, without
limitation of sex.” Prohibitory: “We believe
in equal  political rights regardless of sex.”
Greenback: “Equal political rights for all, both
men and women.” Republican: “We favor a
pure and extended suffrage."
	It is impossible to tell the exact meaning of
this last sentence. It may mean every thing or
nothing, as far as the suffrage for women is
concerned. Taking the platforms as they
stand, it would be fair to say that they indi-
cate a growing public sentiment in favor of
suffrage, and are, taken all together, an ad-
vance on the platforms of previous years.
But before we congratulate ourselves, we shall
wait to see whether those who are elected to
the legislature, upon these platforms, show their
respect for the platforms by acting in conform-
ity with them. We shall be doubly glad and
grateful, if they all unite to relieve women of
the stigma and helplessness which disfranchise-
ment implies and involves, and to relieve
Massachusetts from its greatest shame, viz.,
that of degrading all the women of the Com-
mon-wealth to the political level of its male
criminals and idiots.—Ex


