OCTOBER CONFERENCE, 1883.

	The Fifty-third semi annual Conference,
which was held in this city Oct. 5, 6 and 7, was
certainly one of the largest and most interesting
that has ever been convened. It signifies the
growth and importance of the Kingdom of God
upon the earth. The large Tabernacle was
crowded to its utmost capacity, and hundreds
were unable to gain admittance. Indeed, the
streets were so thronged during the hours of ser-
vice that one might [---] have imagined meet-
ing was over. All this is prophetic. It forshad-
ows the glorious future to which the Saints have
looked forward with such fond anticipation. The
teaching and preaching during the three days of
Conference were [-]mi[-]enty calculated to edify
and elevate as well as comfort, and the Holy
Spirit seemed to carry testimony to the hearts
of all who heard. It was a season of refreshing
as well as rejoicing, and will assuredly tend to
strengthen the faith of the Saints.
	The progress of the work the Latter-day
Saints are engaged in, according to the statisti-
cal reports, is certainly most encouraging and
shows how completely the enemies of the work
have been defeated in their efforts to hinder its
spread. The fact that the immense congrega-
tions were edified and satisfied with the instruc-
tions given, and the spirit of the Conference is
sufficient proof in itself, to those acquainted
with the Gospel and its effects, that there was a
power and influence with those who addressed
the great concourse of people that satisfied the
soul of the lover of truth and intelligence; for
the "Mormons," as they are called, fully un-
derstand the genuine ring of the true metal and
cannot be palmed off with counterfeits, or a
semblance of Gospel truth.
	It was a very peaceful gathering, nothing
seemingly to annoy or disturb the even flow of
the Spirit of God.
	The music of the Tabernacle choir being as a
whole the composition of home composers, Lat-
ter-day Saints, was something out of the com-
mon, and marks in a noticeable degree the ad-
vancement in the higher attainments of this
people. Some of the pieces were sublime, many
were excellent, and all were good, and the su-
perior rendering of the music helped those who
listened to appreciate home talent in music. In
vocal and instrumental music the Latter-day
Saints excel, and this is an elevating and inspir-
ing element in the Church, in the home, and in
the community. A great deal has been accom-
plished in this direction, but when the Temples
are completed there will of necessity be an im-
mense number of the sweet singers of Israel
needed, as well as players upon the timbrel, the
harp and other instruments used for sacred wor-
ship, so that after all this is only the beginning.


In Zion it is expected will be found not only
the most skilled workman, but that the cultiva-
tion of all the higher attributes and qualities of
one's nature will bring the highest standard of
perfection possible upon this earth.
	In this connection so much might be said that
one can get but a faint idea, a glimpse only of
the beauty, the glory and the excellence of that
which is to come. But while one contemplates
all these magnificent results to be achieved he
must not lose sight of the identical present upon
which so much of the great future depends.


