THE BOOK OF ETHER.

	The Book of Ether is one of the most inter-
esting books in the Book of Mormon. It is a
short synopsis or abridgement of the record of
Jaredites, which was written upon twenty-four
plates of gold. These plates were found by
the subjects of King Limhi, who were sent by
that monarch to discover the land of Zarahem-
la in the second century before Christ. They
did not find the land they desired, but wan-
dered into the northern continent, where they
found many remains of the Jaredites, and
amongst other things these plates. It was Mo-
roni who made the abridgement which is found
in the Book of Mormon, and he says he has
not written a hundredth part of what was re-
corded on the plates, but he has interspersed
the original narrative with many explanatory
notes, interpolations, prophecies, etc., of his
own. It seems from his remarks that the lan-
guage is almost entirely his own, and that he
has seldom followed the text of the original
records, as a man might in these days write a
life of Moses, founded on what are known as
the Five Books of Moses in the Bible, and yet
scarcely ever quote the original exactly.
	The Jaredites appear in their time to have
been the mightiest nation of antiquity. They
rose into power quicker than either Egypt or
Chaldea, and having the whole western world
as their domain, with no other race or nation
to oppose them. Their increase in numbers
was remarkably rapid, while at the same time
they developed a civilization peculiar to them-
selves, in which promises were realized accord-
ing to their faithfulness to heaven. They were
also threatened by their prophets with dire ca-
lamities if they forsook the Lord and practised
iniquity; unfortunately for them they frequent-
ly gave way to sin from too great prosperity,
and ultimately grew so wicked that they were
exterminated from the face of the land. The
wicked killing the wicked until there were
none left. And so they were destroyed. So it
is declared shall all nations be who dwell on
this most blessed land, when they utterly and
entirely forsake the ways of righteousness and
give themselves over to iniquity.
	The only account of this mighty people who
at one time filled both North and South Amer-


ica is contained in Mormon's abridgement.
Doubtless the time will come when much more
that is contained on the twenty-four golden
plates will be revealed. And then not only
shall we know more about the Jaredites, but
also of the earlier inhabitants of the world, for
these plates not only contain an account of
Jared and his people, but also of the creation
of the world, with a history of its people up
to the time of the building of the great tower
from whence Jared and his colony came.
								G. R.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


[For the EXPONENT.]
