EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE performances of the Home Dramatic As-
sociation during Conference were as good a rep-
resentation of the talent of the company as
could possibly be given. The presentation of
the two plays, "P[-]que" and "Green Lines of
England," were in good taste for the occasion,
and the crowded houses and enthusiastic ap-
plause proved how appreciative were the audi-
ences. Nothing could have been more appropri-
ate than these selections. The stage appoint-
ments, scenery, etc., and the way in which the
plays were put upon the boards, as well as the
exquisi e costumes of the performers were all in
admirable harmony.
	ON Tuesday the 16th inst. the missionaries
to E[-]rope take their departure from Salt Lake
to their fields of labor.—On Tuesday the 23rd,
it is expected they will sail from New York in
the steamer Abyesinia of the Gaion L'ne. With
these missionaries there will be several ladies,
some bound for the States, and of hers will cross
the sea. Mrs. John Reeves, of Ogden, goes to
England to visit her relatives. Mrs. Josephine
Smith to join her husband, Apostle John H.
Smith, now President of the European Mission,
and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, who will go to
Germany and Switzerland, where her husband,
Elder John Q Cannon, has been laboring for
over two years, most of that time in Germany,
and has recently been appointed to preside over
the Swiss and German mission. We congratu-
late these sisters on the opportunity they will
enjoy, not only in visiting other countries, but
in aiding the Elders who are laboring in there
important missions to spread a knowledge of
the true gospel among the nations. From our
daughter Annie we shall expect to receive regu-
lar contributions to the EXPONENT, which will
no doubt add greatly to the attractions of our 
little paper.
	WE have received the first copy of THE
Woman's Tribune, published by The Nebraska
Woman's Suffrage Association, Motto: "Equali-
ty before the Law," price one dollar a year. It
is quite an undertaking, but Nebraska women
can surely sustain a paper of this kind in their
own interests, and it will be an important factor
in educating the people up to the standard nec-
essary to carry the state for woman's suffrage.
The editor, Mrs. Cara B. Colby, of Beatrice,
Neb., is a very able person, has excellent execu-
tive ability and literary attainment as well.
She can both plan and execute as well as speak
and write. We had the pleasure of meeting her
at Omaha at the N. W. S. A. Convention in
the fall of 1882, and know whereof we speak.
She has all the elements of character so essen-
tial for a thorough worker in the woman suffrage
field of labor, as well as those calculated to

(Column 2)

make her [-]n efficient journalist. We wish the 
paper every success, alo[-]it the first copy con-
tains the Circul[-]r of the Anti Polygamy Stand-
ard, which sets forth in the most odious manner
the condition of Mormon women, and calls for 
help to "commend this good work." This very
advertising of theirs will cause many to examine
the "Mormon" question, which these advocates
of rig[-]d measures from Congress who urge en-
fo[-]c[-]m[-]nt of unjust laws would gladly hinder.
Investigation of our question by intelligent men
and women is exactly what we "Mormons"
want.
	Dr. E S Barney, accordingto appointment,
gave her first free lecture on the subject of Laws
of Life to the Young Ladies Association in the
13th Ward, Oct. 9th, and we learn from those
who were present that full satisfaction was
given and that it was highly  creditable to her-
self. She was in the 8th Ward lecturing to the
Young Ladies on the 1[-]th of this month and
they listened with profound attention, and by
invitation she will continue the same subject on
the 26th of Oct. at ths same place at 8 p.m. Her
medical class has commenced ast her resilence,
and those that have come express themselvss
that the facilities which she offers to the stu-
dents surpasses their expectations. We learn
they still are coming, and it is to be hoped that
those interested will spare no pains in avail-
ing themselves of the offer before it is too late.


