OBITUARY.

	Died, at Brigham City, Box Elder County, Septembe
11th, 1883, of consumption, in the thirty-ninth year of
her age, Elizabeth, beloved wife of John B. McMaster,
and daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth Forrest.
	Deceased was born at Romton, Dumcartonshire,
Scotland, March 6th, 1844; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years of age, came to Utah in 1869, and has since been a
resident of Brigham City.
	As a Latter-day Saint her example was ever worthy of
imitation; a true wife and mother, and a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society. Deceased has for many years
held the office of a teacher; was also assistant secretary
and performed every duty assigned her with love and de-
votion. To say that we miss our beloved sister does
not express our feelings, but we know that our loss is
her eternal gain. May she rest in peace, as that was her
oft expressed desire before leaving us "to go to rest."
She died as she lived a faithful Saint of God. Her pa-
tience through her sickness was remarkable; not a mur
mur ever escaped her lips; on the contrary, her thoughts
were ever for the good of others until the last.
	To show their appreciation of her virtues the teachers
at the funeral, walked two by two at the head of the
corspe to the Tabernacle, at which President Snow pre-
sided.


[Column 1]

	She leaves a loving husband and three small children
to mourn her departure. I can truly say that for her
death had no sting. Her end was most peaceful—like a 
weary person going to sleep—full of faith in the Lord,
and at peace with all mankind, and with the hope of a
glorious future in the morning of the first resurection.
	She's passed from this cold world of care,
	Into a happier, holier sphere;
	To meet with friends who've gone before,
	Where pain or parting are no more.
		SUSANNA P. BOOTH, President.
		ANNIE N. BOWRING, Secretary.

	Died, at her home in Provo, Thursday morning, Sept.
20, 1883, Mrs Margaret Ann Foster Cluff, beloved wife of
of Harvey H. Cluff of that city. Deceased was born in
Cincinnati, Ohio, January 23, 1840, and came to Utah
when a child in 1851. On her sevententh birthday she
was married in Provo to Elder H. H. Cluff,
Sister Cluff was the mother of four children, three boys
and one girl, who all died when quite young. The lit-
tle girl died while Br. Cluff was absent from his home 
on a mission to Europe. This was a sad blow to the 
young mother, and she never seemed to be quite so well
in health or spirits afterwards, although carefully ful-
filling every duty in her home and in the Church as a 
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	She believed in and accepted as from divine authority
the principle of celestial marriage, and was willing that 
her husband should take other wives. She was a woman
of refined and sensitive feelings and sentiment, benevo-
lent, kind and sympathetic, anxious to do good, and
possessed good executive ability, which manifested itself
in the positions she was called upon to fill in the wo-
man's organizations.
	Sister Cluff accompanied her husband to the Sandwich
Islands, when he went there on a mission in 1869. She
labored there for five years, doing all in her power to as-
sist in elevating and ministering to the natives. Mrs.
Cluff was for several years President of the Young
Ladie's Associations of Utah Stake both before her
mission to the Islands and after her return home.
She was eminently qualified to fill this important
office.
	She also occupied the positian of President of the
Fourth Ward Relief Society of Provo, and was perfectly 
capable of filling that arduous position as well as the
others. She held these honorable positions to the
time of her death. After her return she was chosen as
Second Counselor to Sister Margaret T. Smoot, the
President of all the branches of Relief Society in Utah
Stake, which position she honored and was highly res-
pected in, proving herself very useful to Sister Smoot,
and in the labor to which she was called.
	In 1879 Br. Cluff was again called to go to the Sand-
wich Islands and take charge of the mission, and Sister
Cluff again accompanied him to his field of labor. She
was acquainted with the language and able to do much
good in teaching and instructing the native women; on
account of her capability for that office was appointed
President of the Relief Society on all the Islands. She
traveled continually and assisted the Elders in organiz-
ing several branches of the Relief Society on those 
islands.
	She returned home in 1882, and her health has been 
quite delicate most of the time, but she enjoyed herself
among her former friends and associates, and has now
gone to rest where there is no more pain or sorrow or
suffering forever. Sister Cluff was truely an estimable
women, a faithful advocate of the Gospel, and one who
had great opportunities of doing good. She has gone
to join her little flock behind the veil, and no doubt the
meeting of mother and children was one of rapturous
delight. Her memory will be fondly cherished by those
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance, and her ex-
ample is most worthy of imitation by the daughters of
Zion.
	The funeral services over the remains of this excel-
lent woman were held in the Provo Meeting House
Saturday, September 22. A large assembly of relatives
and friends were preseat. The speakers were Pres. A.
O. Smoot, Coun. David John and Bishop J. E. Booth.
	E. B. W.

	Died, in Newton, Cache Co., Utah, September 15, 1883,
infant son of William F. and Sarah A. Rigby, aged one
year, four months and seventeen days. He died of
cholera infantum and teething. The little one was the
first and only child of its parents, and its mother
grieves very much over his death, as the father is away 
upon a mission the the Southern States, he was called

[Column 2]

last February to go upon this mission. It will be sad
news to him, but the Lord giveth and taketh away.
May He give to those bereaved ones His Holy Spirit to
cheer and comfort them:

	Died, at Snowflake, Arizona, Oct. 3, 1883, Susie J.
Freeman, wife of James M. Stratton, and daughter of
John W. and Adaline Freeman, born March 24th, 1866,
in Washington, Utah.
	She has left a husband and young babe, besides many
friends by whom she will be missed. She has been a 
faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A. ever since its or-
ganization in 1880. She was ever on hand to do good,
and attended her meetings, for duty never seemed a
task to her; she was in every sense of the word an ex-
ample to the young ladies, and worthy of imitation.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.—Inacmuch as it has
pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our midst one
one of our dear sisters, the first of our members by
death, we, the young ladies of the M. I. A. resolve to
manifest our appreciation and respect to our departed
sister.
	Resolved, That we will try to follow the example of
our departed sister in our lives.
	Resolved, That we condole with each other in the
great loss we sustain in our bereavement, and tender this
token of respect and sympathy to her husband, parents
and family, in their hour of trial, hoping that we will
ever emulate her worth.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to her bereaved family, and publish a copy of the same
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on our
record. May H. Larson, Emma L. Smith, Della Fish,
Committee.


