		A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
	Yes! to-day I have seen that wonderful be-
ing of God's creation, a beautiful woman! She
fairly magnetized my eyes and one or two of
my senses-and all of my heart, that I gave her
free as air, I could not help it; I have been
looking back and cannot recollect that I ever
saw to my mind, a woman so perfect. I dis-
like sweeping assertions and they generally
are not true, but there are exceptions to all
things, and this is one, I am so glad I have
seen her! she has left an influence that I will
try to make beneficial-she was surely formed
as a model in more ways than one. She has
passed down another current, never more to
blend with me personally on earth, but spirit-
ually we shall communicate; for there was a 
powerful affinity between us; I will try to
draw an adumbrated portrait of her but feel I
cannot do her justice.
	Grandly tall! and proportion, which in it-
self is beauty, visibly stamped upon her from
the crown of her noble head to the sole of her
foot! No fat! but flesh and muscle to balance
her hight, her beautiful, womanly head finely
set on a graceful neck, and shoulders worthy to
bear the same; her profusion of hair amounting
to a marvel-but so gracefully arranged as not
to be cumbrous-her voice musical and the
deliverly of her words perfect! Her dress-
why it was entirely a model for any fashiona-
ble modist, and yet original! -rich in material,
but plain in make up-no vulgar jewelry about
her neck, but a simple ribbon bearing proba-
bly a souvenir of chaste-simple but recherche
--the ribbon tied as none but she could fix it-
her hat!-I ought to take a whole paragraph
to describe its elegance, but "I pass"-were I
a painter I should be apt to take the tout en-
semble of this unique woman as my model for
St. Cecelia, because with all this beauty and
chaste adornment, there was a sweet, womanly
simplicity, a suavity of manner, and a simple
dignity of deportment that gave the electric
charm to all she said or did-her earnest yet
gentle words, her manner so simple yet pol-
ished, bearing the impress of a patrician, yet
humble and entirely approachable.
	What a model! Had we such an one al-

[Column 2]
ways before our eyes we surely should improve
in our manners and address to each other-
which is often so chilling, so immobile, so ob-
tuse, so unlovable.
	I rejoice I was so fortunate as to have come
in contact with the faint outline I have des-
cribed-it has warmed me up, struck chords
that have long lain mute for the want of a
hand to strike them. Association of superior
natures, or rather perhaps I should say, man
ners is necessary to every one as a finish to ed-
ucation of whatever school. We are cultiva-
ted by such an association more in a few hours
than we could be in days or weeks of scholastic
friction. "One touch of nature makes the
whole world kin," -and this we realize in asso-
ciating with our fellow beings-especially our
superiors-this superiority needs to be defined
-in a few words, it does not consist in wealth
or position-it arises from the cultivation of
the heart and brain, and the association that
polishes and refines both these organs and
gives them tact and talent to diffuse amiability
and happiness among any society into which,
the circumstances of life often throw people
unexpectedly; a really well educated person is
at home in all society where goodness and res-
pectability prevail; and when brought in con-
tact with opposing elements it is often seen
that the "oil and wine" of love and kindness
emerging from such a spirit has the power to
still the turbulent element of ignorance, and
awaken an under current of love and admira-
tion, that was flowing silently in the bed rock
of a strange, hard nature, which the voice of
love and education had never cultivated.
	My beautiful friend, adieu! In spirit I kiss
my hand to thee, and aspirate a blessing on
thee and on they earthly pilgrimage! Thou
hast shed a stray ray or two of sunlight ou
my lonely but peaceful life; thy image is pho-
tographed vividly on my heart and brain.
Our spirits spoke to each other in a language
peculiar to themselves, and revealed things
that our present language could never proper-
ly make known. May the angels of God at-
tend thy steps, and peace and health be around
thy dwelling.
	Image of Beauty, Farewell!
							H. T. King.


