A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	While attending our late Conference and
listening to with much interest to the statistical
report of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, which to many people is very dry,
but to me is full of intense interest; it is a
sermon of itself; it speaks volumes, my mind
reverts back to the time when the Church was
first organized, on the 6th of April, 1830, with
six members, with a young man at their head
but 24 years of age; not a graduate from any
of the known established colleges of the day,
nor a salaried minister, nor with any of the
qualifications supposed to be necessary to pre-
pare men for preaching the gospel in this
highly enlightened age.
	What were the qualifications of this young
man, Joseph Smith, the great Prophet of the
nineteenth century? We are told in the Book
of Mormon (Second Book of Nephi, Second
Chapter) that Joseph, who was carried captive
into Egypt, prophesied that in the latter days
the Lord would raise up a Seer, "and", says
Joseph, "his name shall be called after me; and
and it shall be after the name of his father."
Now, this is one proof that he was predestina-
ted to come forth and perform a certain work,
for Joseph further says concerning him, the
Seer, "and he shall be like unto me, for the
thing which the Lord shall bring forth by His
hand, by the power of the Lord, shall bring
my people unto salvation:"
	If there was any disposition to doubt that
Joseph Smith was the one here spoken of we
have only to call to mind the fact that in an-
swer to his prayers the Lord himself and His
Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him and told
him that the Gospel in its fulness should be re-
vealed to him, not at that time, but when he
should be sufficiently educated. Was there a
college upon the earth at that time, in which
this young man could receive an education that
would fit and prepare him to bring forth the
Gospel and officiate in its ordinances for the
living and the dead? to build temples to the
Most High God and administer in His name?
Not this side of heaven. Jesus Christ himself
gave him his first lesson, then Moroni, an an-
cient Prophet of the Lord, came and unfolded
to him mysteries that had been hid from the
world for many generations; it took about nine
years to complete his education and fit him for
the work that was before him. After he had
been educated sufficiently was he fully pre-
pared to commence the great work for the hu-
man family? No, he had not yet received his
commission. When a person takes a normal
course of studies, with a view to becoming a
teacher, when their course is finished they have
to undergo an examination, and if they are
able to pass with credit to themselves and sat-
i-faction to their instructors they receive a cer-
tificate to that effect, and are then prepared to
enter upon their duties as teachers. Just so
with Joseph Smith, he had received his educa-
tion from Jesus Christ, the son of the living
God, from holy men that had lived on this
earth in ages long gone by, and who had come


from the courts of heaven direct from God the
Eternal Father, to teach and instruct him in
the duties that should be required of him, but
until those who held the keys of the everlasting
Priesthood, the authority by which men admin-
ister in the things of God, come and conferred
that same authority upon him he had no right
to act. But I am digressing; we started out
with the statistical report, which shows a
wonderful increase in our numbers since the
organization of the Church, and I could not
help but think that those who are waiting and
watching for Mormonism to die, would, if they
listened to that report, begin to get somewhat
discouraged, and conclude that for a dying in-
institution it was wonderfully thrifty. I lis-
tened attentively (I could not certainly be
called disinterested) but I have a great desire
to learn the true status of things generally, and
I must say that I failed to preceive any signs
of decay. I cannot think that our healthy
condition is due to any especial care that has
been bestowed upon us by those who are not
of us, as I have never, since I can remember,
seen anything that would induce me to to be-
lieve that we were a pet of even the parent
government that we love so well; they have
never provided food, raiment or shelter for us
when they could help it; they have even turned
us out of doors, and seem pretty determined
in their own minds to keep us out. I cannot
help but conclude that if our welfare had
depended upon their tender care alone
that we should have been, by this time, in
about the situation they would like to see us, to
use some of their own expressions, used up.
But we know in whom to trust; we know who
has sheltered us from the rude blast, who has
turned aside the wrath of the enemy and made
it an instrument for good, who has comforted
us in times of affliction, who has bound up the
broken heart and made it to rejoice in times of
sore trial, and "His arm is not shortened, and
His hand is stretched out still;" we have
nothing to fear but ourselves. Father's prom-
ises are sure, we have only to obey.
	RUTH.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 10, 1883.


