JECTS.

	We are learning a little about the city
wherein we have located ourselves for the
present. We find it a matter of congratula-
tion that there is an old open market place of
the most orthodox stamp—booths, and old
women and maidens in short dresses to offer
us their wares in the most guttural German.
	The Elbe runs through the very heart of the
city, and promises many a delightful tramp
over its old bridges. Soldiers and officers of all
ranks are to be met with at every turning.
Americans and English people are fond of the
place for winter, and quite an English air per-
vades one section of the city. We have rather
a far away feeling ourselves in this out-of-the-
way corner of Saxony. The country round
about is no doubt very beautiful, and the situ-
ation of the city particularly charming.
	The kingdom of Saxony is rich, the people
poor, taxes heavy, and living high. The land
is under good cultivation, but the people—es-
pecially the women—work hard. We have
seen here what we have not seen anywhere
else—a woman and a dog harnessed into a cart,
while a man, husband or father, perhaps,
walked comfortably along in the rear, or
loaded up the wagon for his team.
	The army claims the larger part of the able-
bodied men. The people seem industrious.
Beggars are not permitted in the streets, yet
we feel that there is more poverty here than
anywhere we have yet been on the Continent.
The working women have a worn-out look.
The children of the lower classes look poorly
fed. Nearly all of them are bow-legged or de-
formed in some way—the imperfection proba-
bly being due to lack of nutritious food and
overwork.
	We find by this afternoon's drive that the
environs of the place are very attractive, and
the city larger and finer than we thought. Au-
gustus II., called "the strong," was a lover of
show and splendor. To him the people
largely indebted for their start in art and civi-
lization. Augustus III. improved largely on
what he found. The princes and kings of
Saxony from that day down have not been
backward in enriching the kingdom in all di-
rections.
	The old palace is not by any means one of

[Column 2]
the ornaments of the place. It is dark, gloomy
and unsightly on the outside. Thus far it
proves a riddle to us, for it has anything but
an inviting exterior. Why, with means that
enables one to a choice of a habitation, any one
should be willing to remain long in its gloomy
vicinity, it puzzles us to divine, yet we are told
there is great wealth under the royal roof.
	The Grosse Garten, which is outside the
Pirna gate, is laid out as a royal park and is
the favorite drive of the king. It embraces
about three hundred acres. It is a most de-
lightful spot for afternoon riding. The princi-
pal entrance to the garden is adorned by mar-
ble vases of fine workmanship, having bas-re
liefs of the seasons and allegorical figures of
the four quarters of the world. There are
many fine statues through the grounds. A
handsome palace in the Renaissance style has
been recently erected within the park. The
Reitschel Museum and the Museum of Antiqui-
ty are among the attractions of this palace.
Several restaurants are scattered through the
grounds. Good bands of music lend a cheeri-
ness to the place. A beautiful pond is not the
least among its attractions. The swans, who
seem to hold it as their especial property, are
decidedly social in their tendencies, making
friends with us quite readily.
	We return from the Garten by another way,
getting a lovely view of some of the mountains
of Saxon Switzerland, and driving home past
several palaces and fine buildings. We discov-
er that there are very few detached houses for
single families. The Germans have a taste for
living in a horizontal direction. Where in
our way we would put up a block of buildings,
dividing it into separate houses side by side,
with dividing walls, steps and hallways appro-
priated to each house, these people would use
the room in their own fashion. They would
have but one large entrance, and all the rooms
on one floor would be the establishment of a
single family, who would in no way be brought
more in contact with their neighbors than we
are with the persons who live side by side with
us. Of course, as yet we do not see the par-
ticular advantages of this manner of living,
except that it is more democratic than our
own. Respectable persons of small means may
find more desirable homes, perhaps, than they
would otherwise. Prince and peasant fre-
quently live under the same roof, the aristo-
cratic part of the community taking the best
part of the building while the humbler mem-
bers climb up to the garrets or descend to the
basement.		*		*		*		*
