Three Realms in Which Woman's Influence Should Ever Be Paramount President David O. McKay (Address Delivered at the General Session, Relief Society General Conference, Wednesday, October 8, 1958) ISTER Spafford, sisters, and S brethren. When Sister Longden in her opening prayer said, "We thank thee that we are women," I said amen with all my heart. When I think of what you do, the responsibilities you carry in the home and elsewhere, and the sufferings you undergo, I am thankful lam aman. (Laughter.) I wish to offer a few words of commendation and congratulation. I congratulate the Relief Society upon this large attendance. If you all come next Friday morning, I don't know what we will do with the men. (Laughter.) 'They couldn't be replaced by a choicer group in the world than that which we face this afternoon. With all my heart I commend the Singing Mothers. Think what they have done in rendering this inspiting service this afternoon! 'Think of four hundred of them attending practices in their various wards for weeks preceding this event! Four hundred women, paying their railroad fare, bus fares from California, and their own expenses while they are here, practicing together under Sister Madsen, to render the inspiring music! I wish all the world could realize what their presence and their singing this afternoon really signify. I wish to commend, in-your presPage 788 ence, the influence your President, Sister Spafford, exerted over in London recently when she accepted the appointment to attend the dedicatory service of the London Temple. She doesn't know the sources from which I express the thoughts that I am now going to give you. They certainly did not come from her. While the dedicatory service was going on, she was the guest of Lady Reading and others, and rendered a wonderful service which will redound to the good of Relief Society and of the Church generally. I received two letters from Lady Reading in which she expressed great appreciation for her companionship and association with your President. I commend those who preceded me this afternoon, the sisters, and the messages they have given, and I pray for the same inspiration which has accompanied them in_ their speaking. 'This has indeed been a glorious session. I pray that what I say may be in harmony with the instructions given by your leaders. We are living in a_ changing world. We are in the midst of it, so near us that many of us fail to realize or discern while changes are being brought about. I noticed this recently when we were being driven from the airport in London to our hotel, about twenty or twenty-five THREE REALMS IN WHICH WOMAN'S INFLUENCE SHOULD EVER BE PARAMOUNT = 789 miles distance. I noticed the difference in transportation. Sixty years before this recent visit, I crossed on a steamboat to Great Britain. It took, as I remember, about sevenand-a-half days. 'That morning we had been only fourteen hours from New York, and we were delayed by head winds and the pilot thought it best to land at Shannon, Ireland, to refuel. As I say, it took fourteen hours. Think of the progress during those sixty years! 'Then another thing, as we were being driven to the hotel, I was surprised at the number of autos, or rather, at the absence of the fine Clydesdale horses that I saw sixty years before, drawing heavily loaded lorries. Not one did we see during that entire trip that morning. All had given way to the advance in building and driving of automobiles, trucks, etc. Another thing, I was surprised to see a lady policeman — women policemen. Sixty years before that, even thirty years so far as I was concerned, we hadn't thought that was a field for women to enter. And I learned, while I was in London, of the efficiency of women as women policemen. N 1930, there were over eight million women workers gainfully employed. Today, as we have learned, there are twenty-eight million. There has been a vast increase in women workers during the last twenty-five years in various occupations in which, formerly, only men participated. And this great increase is particularly among matried women. Now I don't know that there is any objection to women entering the fields