Annual General Relief Society Conference — 1958 Hulda Parker, Gencral Secretary-Treasurer HE Annual General Relief Society Conference was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and 'Thursday, October 8 and 9. For days before the conference convened, Relief Society leaders from all over the Church started converging in Salt Lake City. With the cancellation of the conference a year ago, because of the flu epidemic, there seemed to be a more than usual hungering on the part of these leaders for the inspiration that comes from assembling together in the Tabernacle to receive the counsel and instruction that would help them carry forward in their responsibilities in Relief Society. The opening session in the Tabernacle on Wednesday morning was for stake and mission officers and board members, at which challenging and inspirational addresses were given by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen, the Relief Society advisors of the Council of the Twelve. President Belle S. Spafford also presented the Report and Official Instructions. The roll call in this session showed representation from thirteen missions and all but three stakes in the Church. Although mission Relief Society presidents were not in attendance at the conference, several missions were represented by district officers. 'The total attendance of 2312 included 2265 stake Relief Society leaders and forty-seven mission representatives. 'he music for this session was provided by the Page 794 Bonneville Stake Singing Mothers Chorus of 120 voices, with Shirley Swensen conducting and Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ.. The general session for Relief Society members and the general public was held in the 'Tabernacle on Wednesday afternoon. As the main speaker, President David O. McKay delivered a most impressive address counselling the women of the Church regarding their great responsibilities as mothers and homemakers. Sister McKay accompanied him in attendance at this session. Other addresses were given by President Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Louise W. Madsen, and _ Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker. The Relief Society General Presidency and General Board members were also sustained. A 450-voice combined chorus of Singing Mothers from Southern California sang ""T'each Me, O Lord" and "My Soul Is Athirst for God." The chorus was conducted by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. The participants in the chorus were from the following stakes: Bakersfield, Burbank, Covina, East Long Beach, East Los Angeles, Glendale, Inglewood, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Mt. Rubidoux, Orange County, Pasadena, Redondo, Reseda, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Diego East, San Fernando, Santa Ana, Santa Monica, and South Los Angeles. This chorus also provided the music for the Friday and Saturday sessions of General Conference. ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE— 1958 795 Courtesy Deseret News PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY SPEAKING AT THE GENERAL SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONIFERENCE, OCTOBER 8, 1958 Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of the President, is seated at the left, and Belle S$ Spafford, General President of Relief Society, is seated on the right. Elder LeGrand Richards (Ieft), and Elder Delbert L. Stapley (right), of the Council of the 'Twelve, are seated in the foreground. Singing Mothers may be secn at the back, 796 On Wednesday evening the Relief Society General Board received approximately 2200 stake board members and mission representatives at a beautifully appointed reception in the Relief Society Building. Departmental meetings were held in the 'Tabernacle 'Thursday morning and afternoon for stake and mission officers and board members. In these meetings impressive presentations were given introducing the educational courses of study and