No Lack of Miracle Maude Rubin Here everything is green—the waves, the grass— Green sickles move on eucalyptus trees Cutting the heavy fragrance. Palm trees mass These sun-baked western hills. No need to freeze Red mittened fingers gathering boughs; long-lost That morning sparkle of the fern-leafed frost. Oh, lovelier than greenness, time propels My thoughts on slender tracks of silver sound; The smell of pine and spice and fruity cakes; The mystery of Christmas-coming-round, Instead of all this growingness that makes The winter into spring. Oh, may they feel No lack of miracle, of holy light, These bright-eved children, when at last they kneel To pray for blessings on this sacred night. And teach my truant thoughts to stop and 'know That little Jesus never played in snow. Be Honest with Yourself NO, THANK YOU! How should you answer the person who invites you to "take a cigarette" or "have a drink" — or do anything which is against your conscience or contrary to the teachings of your Heavenly Father? What should you say? How much do you need to explain or apologize? When, if ever, should you compromise just a little for the sake of appearances? The answer is easy. Just say "No—no, thank you." Don't waver. Don't Page 818 BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF 819 worry about how others may think or act. Be your own natural, honest self. Everyone admires sincerity. If the invitation to indulge in something you don't believe in comes from a host or hostess while you are a guest, your answer will come even easier. The obligation of courtesy is not that of the guest but of the host. The gracious host will never press you, never question your right to be yourself in matters of conscience. He will admire you for your forthright stand. It's natural to want to be liked by the crowd. But compromising with principles is always wrong, often dangerous. What is right? What is wrong? Fortunatcly, there are ways for members of the Church to recognize right from wrong. Read the Scriptures; listen to the teachings of your Church leaders. And listen, also, to the whisperings of that "still, small voice." When it whispers: "It's wrong; don't do it!" — say firmly, honestly, finally: "No, thank you — no!" BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF.~_-