A Christmas Card Sree for Your Window Sylvia Pezoldt A NEW way to display your Christmas cards which will keep them unblemished is by a "ribbon tree'' in the window. It will also do to fill in a wall space and is especially handsome fastened to a mirror, the long narrow kind is just right. Long narrow windows or door sidelight or a wall panel between doors or windows display the cards well. If you receive many cards, matching ribbon trees can be arranged in pairs, as on both sides of a fireplace or of a door. Use half-inch dark green ribbon. The firm, plastic kind, sold for gift wrappings, stands the strain and light-fading well. To carry out the illusion of a green tree, start at the top of the space and in the center fasten the end of the ribbon with rubber cement, glue, or masking tape. None of these will mar the surface, but a thumbtack or sharp pin insures security for the added weight of the cards. Drape the ribbon back and forth to form a tree outline, narrow at the top, but widening until it fills the space at the bottom. Finish in the middle at the bottom with loops to make a "trunk." Later a long, slim card will arrive which will seem to be made to fill this space, but the loops will add a decorative touch anyway. A small Christmas ornament can be hung at the far end of each loop, if desired. Use pin card-holders, the kind which have a slot to hold the card and a sharp prong for hanging it to display. They can be purchased at most stationery stores for a small amount per dozen or ten cent stores sell them for about a penny each. As your cards arrive, slip on one of the pins and hook it to the ribbon. At first you may wish to put one in each loop, but as your card mail increases, they will need to be pushed closer. In a window or mirror, turn some back to back so that both you and the passers-by can enjoy the gay designs. After the cards are taken down, the pins can be removed and kept for another year, the cards unmarred, ready for anything you wish to do with them. ><