ANNOUNCING A NEW BOOK TO BE READY FOR OCTOBER CONFERENCE
THE PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH
By Preston Nibley
INVITATION TO OUR FRIENDS WHO COME TO CONFERENCE
When you come to conference this fall drop into our plant at 29 Richards Street (just a few steps from the main entrance to the Tabernacle Grounds) and have a look around in our big, modern printing plant. Here you will find, in various stages of production, all the Church magazines, including, of course, The Relief Society Magazine. You will see. In course of printing, seminary text books, Church literature of all kinds, as well as an infinite variety of smaller commercial work.
IT WILL BE A PLEASURE TO WELCOME YOU!
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
When you come to conference gather up and take along all those back numbers a publications. Bring them in and let us bind them into neat, compact volumes.
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
VOL. 28, NO. 11 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY NOVEMBER 1941
THE COVER
Bishop?s Building ?Relief Society Headquarters
THE Bishop's Building, located at 40 North Main Street, was completed in 1909. Relief Society was assigned rooms on the north side of the second floor, including the large front room overlooking Main Street, to be used as headquarters for the General Board. The new headquarters were beautifully furnished by the General Board and officially opened for a meeting of the Board on December 3, 1909. Prior to this time the business of the organization had been transacted in the office of the Woman's Exponent by courtesy of the editor, Emmeline B. Wells, who was also general secretary of the Relief Society.
The south side of the second floor of this building was assigned to the Seventies and Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. The third floor was assigned to the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association. The entire first floor was reserved for the Presiding Bishopric. The top floor was reserved for an auditorium with adjoining extra rooms.
In 1920, the entire second floor was given to the Relief Society when the Priesthood organizations were given quarters in the Church Office Building.
The cover picture is a view of the north side of the building looking west and shows the north entrance to the building, which is the entrance used in reaching Relief Society headquarters. The Salt Lake Temple is seen in the background.
Arrangements for this month's cover design are by Evan Jensen.
Serve
Fishers
PLEASING Delicious VARIETY DUTCH BREAD
A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!"
Henry Ford says: "It seems to me that a school should do something to prepare youth to Take Hold Somewhere!"
Enroll any Monday for Day or Evening classes.
L. D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah
Index to Advertisers
Beneficial Life Insurance Co Outside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co Inside Front Cover
Larkin Mortuaries Fly-leaf
L. D. S. Business College Fly-leaf
Otarion of Salt Lake City Inside Back Cover
"Though I have all faith, So that I could remove mountains, And have not charity I am nothing."
Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Dial 7523
Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126
LARKIN MORTUARIES
I Corinthians 13:2.
Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 ~ NOVEMBER, 1941 No. 11
Contents
Special Features
Back of Frontispiece?Remarks President Amy Brown Lyman 727
Frontispiece?Committee in Charge of Arrangements for Relief Society Central Conference, October 1-2, 1941 728
Relief Society Conference Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 729
Officers' Meeting, Wednesday Forenoon?Greetings Amy Brown Lyman 735
Union Meeting Lesson Demonstrations 737
Theology and Testimony Department:
Why Study the Gospel Vivian R. McConkie 739
Stimulation of Testimony Bearing in Relief Society Edith S. Elliott 741
Officers' Meeting, Wednesday Afternoon?Round-Table Discussion, led by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion 743
Literature Department:
Humor a Universal Benefactor Rae B. Barker 747
Public Conversation, "Let's Talk It Over" 748
Social Science Department:
Supplementary Reading Material Pauline T. Pingree 749
Officers' Meeting?Thursday Forenoon
Report and Official Instructions President Amy Brown Lyman 751
The Home Stretch in Membership Belle S. Spafford 761
Highlights and Sidelights in Membership Zora C, Paulson 762
General Session
Message from President Heber J. Grant 764
Opening Address President Amy Brown Lyman 766
Our Permanent Centennial Memorial Mary G. Judd 769
The Need of Organization Counselor Marcia K. Howells 770
Meeting Relief Society's Challenge Counselor Donna D. Sorensen 772
Fiction
The Merry-Go-Round?Chapter Eight Alice Morrey Bailey 777
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 774
Editorials:
Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Grant 775
General Conference Message 775
Oscar A. Kirkham Named to Council of Seventy 776
Lessons
Theology and Testimony
Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter v 779
Visiting Teachers
Attendance at Sacrament Meetings as an Expression of Faith 781
Work-and-Business
Ready-to-Wear Dresses and Coats 782
Literature
Some Humorous Characters 785
Social Science
The Start and the Art of Marriage 791
Mission
We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet 797
Poetry
Rooted in Faith Jasmine R. Edmunds 800
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 8-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.Remarks President Amy Brown Lyman Welfare Session of General Conference Salt Lake Tabernacle, Saturday, October 4, 1941 T is a joy to note the tremendous gain which has been made by united, faithful effort in the welfare movement of the Church. The plan to maintain what has already been gained in the last four years, to seek, step by step, for even greater accomplishments, to set out for higher levels of physical, moral, social and spiritual well-being for all members of the Church, inspires us with zeal and a desire to renew and intensify our efforts. Relief Society women are peculiarly fitted for welfare work. They are fitted by tradition, background, experience, and training. Before anybody in this great auditorium was even born, they were going about their mission of mercy and human helpfulness, aiding others?and in a neighborly fashion, aiding one another. For over 99 years, in cooperation with and under the direction of their ward bishops (who have respected and honored them and appreciated their efforts), they have helped to house the homeless, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and to furnish and create employment. They have nursed the sick, comforted the sorrowing, and laid away the dead. In addition to all this, they have worked for mass betterment by promoting and carrying forward programs of constructive, preventive welfare. So it has been that all down through the years no matter how interesting their educational and cultural programs have been, Relief Society women have never been satisfied with mere selfimprovement. They have realized the need of contributing to something outside themselves. They have had a feeling that life was incomplete unless through their work and themselves they were able to make a contribution toward the welfare of others. Thus, they have fulfilled their original assignment, given to them by the Prophet Joseph Smith. And now today they offer whole-heartedly their service and their accumulation of knowledge-and experience to the welfare plan and program of the Church. Their hearts are in the work, and they shall never be found wanting. GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS IN CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENC, OCTOBER 1-2 1941 Front row, left to right: Dr. Florence Jeppe; Madsen, Edith S$ Elliott, Paxman. Merianne C. Sharp, Priscilla L. Evans. ' D. Sorensen, Annie S. Barlow. Mary G. Judd. Back row. Left to right: Luella N. Adams, @ ' d? R, Garl. Vivian Ro Mc' The Relief Society Magazine 

Vol. 28 NOVEMBER, 1941 No. 11 Relief Society Conference October, 1941 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not."—Galatians 6:9. This was the theme of the semiannual general conference of Relief Society which was held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1941. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, member of the General Presidency in charge of educational work for the Society, was chairman of the October conference committee, and was assisted by eleven other members of the General Board who served on this committee. This conference featured especially the educational work of the Relief Society, but also gave consideration to plans for the observance of the Relief Society centennial in 1942, and lent impetus to the closing months of the Relief Society's fouryear membership campaign. The Relief Society greatly appreciated the added strength given its membership campaign by the General Authorities who, at two sessions of the general conference, urged the women of the Church to affiliate with the Society, and suggested that stake presidents and bishops cooperate with their respective Relief Society officers in the furtherance of this campaign. Schedule of Meetings On the first day of the conference, two educational department meetings were held simultaneously in the forenoon and also in the afternoon, and in addition, a music department was also held in the afternoon for stake choristers and organists. Both the forenoon and afternoon department sessions were preceded by a short officers' meeting for all stake and mission officers and board members. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, chairman of the conference, conducted both of these general officers' meetings. The department sessions were conducted by their respective chairmen, as indicated in the ac- C companying schedule, each of whom gave a preview of the coming season's work. President Amy Brown Lyman presided at the Thursday forenoon officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall, and at the afternoon general session in the Tabernacle, which was open to all Relief Society officers and members, and the public. Page 729 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS Meeting Time and Place Chairman Attendance WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1941 Officers' Meeting Assembly Hall, g:30-10:10 a. M. Counselor Sorensen Departments— Visiting Teachers' Theology and Testimony Barratt Hall, 10:30 a. M.-12:00 V. R. McConkie 450 Officers' Meeting Assembly Hall, 1:30-2:15 p. M. Counselor Sorensen Departments— Literature Barratt Hall, 2:30-4:00 p. M. — Anna B. Hart 350 Social Science. 18th. Ward Chapel, 2:30-4:00 p. M. Anna S. Barlow 300 Music Assembly Hall, 2:30-4:00 p. M. Florence J. Madsen 250 THuRsSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1941 Officers' Meeting General Session Changes in General Board Personnel At the general session of the conference, President Lyman announced, in the following words, changes in the personnel of the General Board since the April conference: "Since we met last we have been called upon to part with one of our General Board members, Sister Beatrice Farley Stevens, who contributed so much to the music of the organization. Sister Stevens is known far and wide for our stimulating rally song, 'A Hundred Thousand Strong,' which has been sung in local branches all around the world, the words having been translated in a number of languages. She also composed and left for us a centennial song, called, 'A Song of Triumph,' which has been released at this conference. This was the last work she did, and it was completed only a few days before her death. "We are pleased to announce the appointment of two new Board members: Sisters Priscilla L. Evans and Florence Jepperson Madsen. Assembly Hall, 10:00 a. M.-12:15 Tabernacle, 2:00-4:00 p. M. President Lyman 1,010 President Lyman 6,000 Sister Evans is best known to Relief Society women as former president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission. She is at present corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States, Inc. Sister Madsen is professor of music at the Brigham Young University, and is one of the first musicians of our state and Church. I am sure we will all be happy to work with these two dear sisters."; Both new members participated in the conference program: Mrs. Evans addressed the general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, and Doctor Madsen, who is chairman of the General Board's music committee, conducted the music department and also led the congregational singing at the three officers' meetings and at the general session. In a brief impromptu talk at the close of the Thursday afternoon officers' meeting, Doctor Madsen urged Relief Society women to maintain high standards in music and literature, and to sing. She sugMessage 18th Ward Chapel, 10:30 a.m. Achsa E. Paxman 400 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE gested that choristers read something of the lives of the great composers to their singing groups. She expressed the hope that the time would come when an audience such as the one assembled could sing together as a chorus. Representation and Attendance Members of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society were in constant attendance at the three main entrances to the Assembly Hall during the three officers' meetings held there, welcoming the representatives attending the mectings, distributing printed programs, and assisting in the registration of attendance. All twenty-three members of the General Board were present at the conference. __ Nearly every stake of the Church responded to the roll call in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning—135 of the total of 138—all but San Luis in southwestern Colorado, Seattle in Washington, and Washington in the District of Columbia. In addition to stake representation, mission Relief Society presidents or their official representatives from six of the twelve missions in the United States were present: the California, Central States, New England, Northern States, Northwestern States, and Western States missions. Local Relief Society officers were in attendance from four other missions in the United States: East Central States, North Central States, Southern States, and Texas missions. 'T'wo Relief Society workers from Hawaii were also present— Eva B. Jensen, president of the Japanese Mission Relief Society, and Sai Lang Akana Aki, of Honolulu, a 731 Relief Society visiting teacher from the Oahu Stake in Hawaii, who is also chairman of welfare work in a Church organization there for the Chinese. Helen Harker, a Relief Society member from Australia who is visiting in the United States, was an enthusiastic attendant at the conference. The attendance at each session of the conference is shown in the schedule of meetings. President Heber J. Grant sent a written message (reproduced in full on page 764), which was read at the general session in the Tabernacle by President Amy Brown Lyman. The address, "Women and the Church," by Elder Stephen L Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, delivered at the general session, will be printed in a later issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Elder Marion D. Romney, one of the assistants to the Council of the Twelve and newly appointed Assistant Managing Director of the Church welfare program, spoke in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning on "The Church Welfare Program for 1942"; this address will also appear in a later issue of the Magazine.. Wives of General Authorities of the Church who attended various sessions of the Relief Society conference included Mrs. Heber J. Grant and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; also Madeline B. Wirthlin, Fern T. Lee, and Ida J. Romney, each of whom offered prayer in the principal sessions. Recently returned Relief Society mission presidents also offered prayer—Luella R. Christiansen of the Texas Mission; Ann P. Nibley, Northwestern States Mission; and Fawn B. McKay, Swiss Mission. Mrs. McKay made a spe- 732 cial appeal in prayer in the interest of the Relief Society women and _ members of the Church generally in the countries which are at war. In her opening address at the Tabernacle session, President Lyman mourned the passing earlier in the week of Emily T. Merrill, wife of Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve, commenting on Mrs. Merrill's regular attendance in the past at general conferences of Relief Society, and her valuable service as a ward Relief Society president. Music at the Conference Lily Priestly rendered the organ prelude as the 'stake officers and board members congregated for the three officers' meetings of the conference in the Assembly Hall. She also accompanied the singing at the sessions in the Assembly Hall, and gave valuable assistance in the Wednesday afternoon music department, which was also held in the Assembly Hall, and which featured the ten songs to be included in the concert to be presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in April, 1942, as a part of the general centennial celebration. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen was in charge of the music department, and was assisted by Wade N. Stephens, assistant 'Tabernacle organist, in giving instruction and conducting a practice of the songs for the centennial concert. Following is a list of the ten songs which are to be sung in addition to the cantata Resurrection Morning, at the centennial concert: Price "A Song of Triumph'—Beatrice F. Stevens (words by Beatrice F. Stevens) Two Centennial Songs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 "In His Form"—Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen (words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee) ... 10¢ Other Songs "The 23rd Psalm'"—Schubert (arranged by Saar)........ 15¢ Published by Carl Fischer, New York, No. 5106 "Love's Dream" (3-part chorus for women )—Liszt-Harris.......... Published by Oliver Ditson "Peace I Leave With You"—Roberts 10¢ Published by G. Schirmer, No. 5065. "Through the Silent Night'—Rachmaninoff. 15¢ Published by Oliver Ditson, No. 13,867 "My Heart is a Silent Violin"—Fox Andrews... Published by Carl Fischer, New York, No. 5217 "The Kerry Dance"—Molloy-Harris.. 12¢ Published by Oliver Ditson, No. 13,019 "O Winds, Blow Ye Softly"—Mozart 18c Published by M. Witmark and Sons, New York, No. W-2987 "Forget-Me-Not"—Bach............10c The two new centennial songs may be purchased only from the General Board (see page 752, also see Relief Society Magazine, October, 1941, page 689). The other eight songs are not carried by the General Board, but may be purchased at music stores, some of which offer a discount, according to quantity ordered, to representatives of Relief Society. For information as to purchase of cantata, see Relief Society Magazine, March, 1941, page 200. For details concerning delegation of not more than nine singers from each stake and mission to participate in the general centennial concert, see page 753; also Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, pages oo and 3209. | At the beginning of the general RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE session in the Tabernacle, the Temple Square Choir, conducted by H. Frederick Davis, and accompanied by Alexander Schreiner at the organ, presented two numbers, "Hallelujah, Amen" from Judas Maccabaeus (Handel), and "What Affliction Mine Exceeding?" from Requiem (Verdi). Soloists featured during the second number were Marianne Madsen, soprano; Jessie Evans Smith, contralto; Ray Brimhall, tenor; Philip Dalby, basso. A special feature of the general session was the Tabernacle organ solo, improvisation on "A Mighty Fortress is Our God" (Luther), by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist. A special musical number was presented at each of the four department sessions on educational work, as follows: Jessie Evans Smith sang two numbers, ""That Sweet Story of Old" (West), and "Eye Hath Not Seen" from The Holy City (Gaul), at the department session on visiting teachers' messages; Richard P. Condie, assistant conductor, Tabernacle Choir, sang "If With All Your Heart' (Mendelssohn), accompanied by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, theology and testimony department; Albert Eccles sang two numbers, "The Song of the Flea" (Moussorgsky) and "King Solomon" (Cooke), at the literature department; Bessie Rogers sang two numbers, "Homing" (Teresa Del Riego) and "When Children Pray" (B. Fenner), at the social science department. Singing Mothers were not featured at this semi-annual general conference of Relief Society as is the custom, because October conference plans originally contemplated only departmental sessions, and the plans were changed too late to allow time 733 for selection of a group of choruses from outlying stakes and their adequate preparation. However, the General Board was requested to arrange for a chorus of Singing Mothers to appear at both sessions of the general conference of the Church in the Tabernacle on Friday, October 3, and great credit is due the six Salt Lake City stakes—Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland, and Wells—which tresponded willingly and sang well at these sessions of the conference with only a day's notice. Educational Work Featured The October conference featured the educational work of the Relief Society, with special emphasis on the union meeting. In her opening remarks at the first session of the conference, Counselor Sorensen reported that a survey conducted by the General Board at the close of the 1940-41 lesson season had disclosed, among other important findings, the need for more help in conducting union meeting lesson departments. {n order to help meet this need, a union meeting lesson department demonstration was conducted in each of the four educational department sessions of the general conference. Because of limited Magazine space in which to report proceedings of the general conference, and because the objectives of the union meeting lesson department and methods for achieving them were similar in each of the four demonstrations, a composite report of these demonstrations has been prepared, embodying the principal objectives and methods brought out in the demonstration in each separate department. 'The details of the re- spective lessons used in the demonstrations have been eliminated inasmuch as these lessons will have been given in stake union meetings prior to issuance of this November number of the Magazine. This composite summary of the main points of the union meeting demonstrations appears on page 737. Each of the four lesson departments also gave additional helpful material relating to their respective ' departments. 'This material is summarized and presented on the following pages in the order in which it was programmed. An unusual demonstration in the literature department was the public conversation, "Let's Talk it Over," in which Anna B. Hart, Mary G. Judd, and Alice B. Castleton, of the General Board, and Irma Felt Bitner, of Ensign Stake, participated. A summary of the main points brought out in the conversation appears on page 748. A special feature of the department on the visiting teachers' message was a play, The Great Fig Tree, written and directed by Joseph J. Cannon, which will be published in full in: a later issue of the Magazine. The two short officers' meetings which preceded the forenoon and afternoon department sessions on Wednesday were also devoted to problems of Relief Society teaching. In opening the conference, Counselor Sorensen emphasized the great responsibility which devolves upon Relief Society. Class leaders in interesting and retaining the thousands of new members who have been enlisted during the four-year membership campaign which ends this year. At the same meeting President Amy Brown Lyman gave valuable advice to class leaders, full text of which appears on page 735. The officers' meeting preceding the Wednesday afternoon department session featured with great effectiveness a round-table discussion on "Problems in Relief Society Teaching," conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake. Magazine space for the conference proceedings does not permit reproduction of the full text of the discussion, but the problems in Relief Society teaching presented during the discussion, and the suggestions made concerning them, are summarized and presented on page 743, of this issue of the Magazine. Mimeographed copies of "Mediums and 'Types of Humor," were distributed at the literature meeting. Stakes which did not obtain a copy of this bulletin at the conference may do so upon request to the office 'of the General Board, so long as the supply lasts. In her opening address at the general session in the Tabernacle on the following afternoon, President Lyman informed the thousands in attendance that the meetings of the previous day, featuring the educational work of the Society, had constituted a comprehensive teachers' institute. She spoke of the high standards of Relief Society study courses and expressed appreciation for the mighty work being accomplished through the devotion, earnestness, and efficiency of Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church. She said, "They are not only presenting to us members interesting and valuable facts and in- 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE formation, but they are helping us to improve our lives, our attitudes, our habits of thought and action; in other words, helping us to live more effectively. They are also helping us to understand, love, and appreciate the Gospel. 'As general and local officers, our advice to our class leaders is the same as that which was given by President Brigham Young to Karl G. Maeser when the latter was sent to Provo to help establish the Brigham Young University, and this advice they are following. President Young said to Brother Maeser, in substance: Let the Gospel permeate all your teaching; do not attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the spirit of the Lord." Summarized Report of Proceedings A condensed account of the 735 proceedings of the conference, presented according to the order of meetings listed in the schedule on page 730, follows. An exception to the listed order is the summary of union meeting lesson demonstrations which appears on page 737, for the reason already explained. Space of the November issue of the Magazine is insufficient for the entire report of the proceedings. In addition to the addresses already mentioned as being withheld for publication in a later issue of the Magazine, the following presentations will also appear later: ""Highway for Americans," read by Ned Williams in the literature department; "Home Life, A Social Science," summary of talk by Dr. Harold T. Christensen in the social science department; and condensed Tabernacle address, "The Spirit Giveth Life," by Priscilla L. Evans. Officers Mjeeting Wednesday Forenoon Greetings General President Amy Brown Lyman IT is a great pleasure to me to extend to you dear sisters, in behalf of the General Board, hearty and affectionate greetings. We are very happy to meet with you after a sixmonths' interval. It is a great joy to look into your friendly faces, to feel the warmth of your hearts, and the strength of your goodness and uprightness. You are a constant inspiration to us. I wonder sometimes if we, as general, stake, and mission officers and board members, realize the heavy responsibility which we bear in directing the work of this great and mighty organization—an organization of nearly 100,000 members who are linked together in a world-wide chain which encircles the globe, and who look to us as exponents and liv- 'ing examples of all that the organization and the Church stand for. The very thought of this is almost overwhelming to me at times, and fills me with a feeling of humility 736 and dependence, and with the realization that we must seek the Lord earnestly and constantly for help and guidance; and, furthermore, that we must live so that we will merit the help we need and feel that we must have from Him if we are to succeed. It is no wonder that the President of the Church exhorts and expects all leaders such as we to pray for divine aid to serve the Lord and live righteous and exemplary lives, because so much depends upon us, and because the Church itself is judged by all its leaders. This day we shall devote to our educational work. I am sure we shall have a profitable time together. Our course of study for next year is already laid out for us. It appears to be interesting, stimulating, and helpful. What we shall need to do now is to study and make careful plans for presenting the work to our members, for adult attention is difficult to hold unless careful planning is done. Someone has said the prepared teacher is the inspired teacher. I would like to add that she is also the inspiring teacher. The Relief Society class leaders are among our most important workers. Upon their good work depends much of the success of the organization. 'Their contribution to our union meetings and our weekly meetings cannot be estimated. On every Tuesday during our educational year in Our 2,132 wards and branches there are 2,132 class teachers conducting lessons. Our total teaching force consists of 690 stake class leaders, and 10,660 ward class leaders, making a total of 11,350. During the coming season the work of our ward class leaders will be especially strenuous. They will be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 confronted with larger classes than they have ever had before, and with the task of interesting new members who are unaccustomed to our work. Their teaching may be one of the determining factors in the attendance of our new members. They will need all the help and support stake leaders can give them. A few years ago Sister Emma Brown, who at that time was Professor of Primary Education at the Brigham Young University, brought to our attention some problems which she thought were pertinent in our Relief Society teaching. The following quotations are from her paper published in the Relief Society Magazine, November, 1934, page 660: Relief Society teaching seems to have a triple purpose—information, inspiration and participation. Ruskin says: '"Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know. It means teaching them to behave as they do not behave." It means educating for and training in, not merely telling about. In order to make clear to you my meaning, I shall venture to suggest a number of persistent problems which I suspect may be pertinent in your teaching:. 1. How may I, a teacher, help in getting women of the community to attend and join the organization? 2. What may I do to make Relief Society more attractive, interesting, and worthwhile to these women than any other Tuesday afternoon activity? 3. What may I do to the environment which will stimulate and encourage regular attendance? 4. How may I plan and organize the subject matter and materials of instruction so as to gain and hold the interest and attention of the group? 5. How shall I guide the class activities and so stimulate interest and attention? 6. What may I do to secure individual and group participation in class activities? 7. How may I discover the interests, pos- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE sibilities and purposes of the individual and the group? 8. How may I make the activities sufficiently comprehensive to give each learner a chance to make his contributions to the group? G. How may I vary activities and so add to the interest?. 10. How may I socialize the group so as to interest everyone in the common good? 11. How may I encourage, stimulate and build confidence in the diffident and retiring member? 12. How may I check, without giving offense, the talker who takes up too much time? 13. How may I create a friendly attitude of give and take? 14. How may I utilize constructively the talent of the group? 15. How may I radiate a friendly happy spirit of cooperation and helpfulness? 16. How may I leave the learners eager for further understanding? 17. How may I best develop desirable attitudes, ideals and appreciation? When we have settled upon the goals _ or objectives we are then brought face to 737 face with these troublesome issues: What to teach. How to organize this for teaching. Miss Brown then discusses how to proceed to teach. She says the following are some of the things that the teacher must think about: 1. What do I want to accomplish? 2. What are the fundamental ideas I am trying to fix regarding the subject matter? 3. How will I give them? | 4. How may I arouse interest? 5. What. Materials will I need to carry forward these experiences in order to achieve the goals? Teaching is said to be the noblest of the professions, and teachers are considered to be greatly blessed in their field and the opportunity it gives them. But there is the realization that with this opportunity there comes a great responsibility—the responsibility of influencing human behavior and molding human lives. That the Lord may bless you in your work is my earnest prayer. Union Meeting Lesson Demonstrations UNION meeting lesson demonstrations were held in each of the department sessions as follows: Theology, conducted by Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, assisted by Marianne C. Sharp, Ensign Stake; Zittelle M. Snarr, Mabel H. Burgoyne, Zina H. Ashton, Salt Lake Stake. Visiting Teachers' Message, conducted by Stella P. Rich, assistant professor of English, Brigham Young University, assisted by Jennie B. Knight, Inez B. Allred, Catherine Anderson, Edna B. Culmsee, Provo Stake; Edith Y. Booth, Delilah B. Adams, Utah Stake. Literature, conducted by Elsie C. Carroll, professor of English, Brigham Young University, assisted by Anna P. Redd, Iva Jensen, Provo Stake; Annie A. Tanner, Maurine Taylor, Utah Stake. Social Science, conducted by Belle S. Spafford, General Board member, assisted by Veda Davies, DeEtte Stewart, Eva Heiner, Christe Smith, Mabel Jones Gabbott, Thelma Gunn, Wells Stake; and LaRene Lindquist, South Salt Lake Stake. In the departments on theology, visiting teachers' message, and social science, the demonstrations were based on Lesson 2 of these respec- 738. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 tive courses for 1941-42; in the literature department Lesson 3 was used. The purpose of these demonstrations was to suggest ways and means whereby the union meeting lesson department sessions might achieve their objectives. The objectives were defined as: (1) to inspire ward class leaders with the spirit and purpose of the Relief Society educational program; (2) to guide and direct them in the use of specific subject matter so as to achieve desired teaching objectives; (3) to provide opportunity for the growth and development of ward class leaders. Demonstrations in each department emphasized the fact that a realization of union meeting objectives is dependent upon the attitude and cooperation of ward class leaders as well as upon the preparation and teaching skill of the stake leader. 'The union meeting session was presented as an organized study period in which specific subject matter is carefully analyzed, stimulation and direction for further study given, and assistance provided in the effective use of lesson material in the wards. The demonstrations revealed that the union meeting lesson is not just a smooth unfoldment of ideas which move from a point of departure to a logical conclusion. They also showed that the lesson in hand influences to a marked degree the factors which need consideration and emphasis in the union meeting. The following factors are a composite of the suggestions for successful union meeting lesson work brought out in the various demonstrations: 1. The ultimate objective of the Relief Society educational program. 2. The importance of Magazine material as a groundwork for the lesson. 3. The clarification and evaluation of immediate lesson objectives. 4. Suitable approaches to the lesson. 5. The value of review and its appropriate use in connection with the lesson in hand. 6. The organization of subject matter so that the lesson will move forward logically toward the desired goal. 7. The wise apportionment of time with regard to the various phases or divisions of the lesson. 8. Clarification of difficult or misunderstood parts of the lesson. G. The discriminate use of supplementary reading matter, particularly with tegard to references listed at the end of the lesson; discriminate and profitable use of other lesson enrichment material, such as visual aids, personal experiences, cards containing Articles of Faith, et cetera. (Page references were given to available books suitable for use in connection with the lesson under consideration. Where books were not available, individuals in the class, who had been previously assigned the responsibility, reported in detail on the content. Where material was not too lengthy, quotations copied from these references were distributed. ) 10. Anticipation of problems which might be encountered in presenting the lesson, such as trends the lesson might take which would defeat the objectives set up, parts of the lesson on which there might be marked differences of opinion, et cetera. (Teachers were fortified to meet these problems. ) 11. The importance of teachings being in harmony with Latter-day Saint teachings and an evaluation of the lesson from this point of view. 12. The importance — of _ theological teachings being orthodox and backed by scripture. 13. Suitable methods of presenting in the wards the lesson under consideration. 14. The value of special assignments; sections of lesson lending themselves to assignments; recommendations on how to make successful assignments, such as: (a) capitalize on the interests and the abilities of the adults; (b) enough time should be spent with the member to whom the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE assignment is made to make sure that the assignment is clear—allow the assigned individuals to ask questions; (c) make assignment definite by writing it out and explaining it orally if necessary; (d) make the time limit very clear; (e) make sure that material for use in preparation of assignment is available, or make it available; (f) some follow-through by the class leader should be made before the actual day of presentation. 15. The value of the general assignment with recommendations on how and when to make this. 16. The use of carefully formulated questions in securing class participation. 739 The development of teaching leadership (one of the objectives of the union meeting) was considered in the following ways: (1) instruction; (2) challenging assignments made in advance of the union meeting discussion; (3) encouraging and providing opportunity for women to make unassigned contributions to the lesson; (4) providing opportunity for class participation through well-formulated questions. Sheology and SJestimony Department Why Study The Gospel? Vivian R. McConkie Relief Society General Board Member HE Gospel of Jesus Christ is a plan or system of laws and ordinances by strict obedience to which all people are enabled to return again into the presence of the Lord. It embraces all the laws and ordinances necessary for salvation; therefore, the Gospel is the plan of salvation. But obedience to it does more than reinstate us in the Spiritual presence, as we were before the fall. It takes us far beyond the glory that we there enjoyed. The great Jehovah contemplated the whole of events connected with the earth before the world was. He was acquainted with situations of all nations and with their destiny. He ordered all things righteous, according to his own righteousness, and he foresaw the conditions of all men both in life and in death, and their redemption. And all of the children of men will be given opportunity to accept or reject His plan which is incumbent upon all men. Jesus himself preached the Gospel in Galilee. He commanded that it be published in all nations for a witness that He is the Savior and the Redeemer of men. But it is necessary that we understand the Gospel if we are to publish it. Otherwise, we cannot know how to think or to act to gain salvation. We cannot be saved except we obey the law, and we cannot obey the law unless we know what it is, and we cannot know what it is unless we search the scriptures. It is necessary to study the law and to know that it should be obeyed. Before we can overcome all things, we must overcome ignorance and doubt, and must see the necessity of obeying all righteous laws. If we do not see the reason for any of the Lord's laws, we should, nevertheless 740 obey them. Blind obedience leads to the light. Mothers should teach righteousness to their children before children can possibly see the reason for it, and if they obey, the spirit will some day tell them why. The spirit comes to us and gives us understanding because of individual righteousness. That it is impossible to be saved in ignorance is accepted Church doctrine. But what many seem not to understand is that the reference is to a knowledge of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge and consequently more power than many men who are on earth. Hence it needs revelation to assist us, and give us knowledge of the things of God." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 217) Evil spirits have retained knowledge of the past, but our memories of our pre-existence have been taken from us. Their whole purpose is to thwart the Savior's plan, which they well remember and know. They make it increasingly necessary that we acquaint ourselves with the revealed plan. For salvation is based on a knowledge of the things of God, which is the only knowledge that has saving power in it. President Joseph F. Smith said: "We may know all about the philosophy of the ages and the history of the nations of the earth; we may study the wisdom and knowledge of man and get all the information that we can acquire in a lifetime of research and study, but all of it put RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 together will never qualify anyone to become a minister of the Gospel unless he has the knowledge and spirit of the first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." (Gospel Doctrine, page 324; see also Book of Mormon, II Nephi 9:27-29) Amulek says that when we are judged before the bar of God our reward will depend upon whether we have hardened our hearts against the word and upon that portion of the word which is found in us; in other words, upon how we have received the Gospel and increased our knowledge of God. (Book of Mormon, Alma 12:12-13) We are commanded to study the Gospel. "Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 1, verse 37) | The Lord has always commanded that we shall teach the Gospel with diligence one to another. If we do so, His promise is that His grace shall attend us, that we may be instructed more fully from day to day in the teachings and ordinances of the Church. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 309.) If we gain salvation, all the laws of God must be obeyed. All the ordinances are necessary. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 332.) As men grow in the knowledge of God they become more and more like him. As man approaches God, he is enlightened. The Prophet Joseph Smith. Said, "We consider that God has created man with a mind capable of instruction, and a faculty which may be enlarged in proportion to the heed RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and diligence given to the light communicated from heaven to the intellect; and that the nearer man approaches perfection the clearer are his views, and the greater his enjoyments, till he has overcome the evils of his life and lost every desire for sin; and like the ancients, arrives at that point of faith where he is wrapped in the power and glory of his Maker and is caught up to dwell with Him. But we consider that this is a station to which no man ever arrived in a moment: he must have been instructed in the government and laws of that kingdom by 741 degrees until his mind is capable in some measure of comprehending the propriety, justice, equality, and consistency of the same." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 1) Therefore, it becomes evident that if we desire salvation we must subject our wills to certain requirements that were prescribed before the foundations of the earth were laid, which we call the Gospel. That we might know what they are, the Lord has given us the scriptures and has made it a continuing law that we study them. Stimulation Of Testimony Bearing In Relief Society Edith S. Elliott Relief Society General Board Member FOLLOWING each theology lesson period we have a precious fifteen minutes when Relief Society class members are given the opportunity to bear their testimonies. __ The most important reason for studying the Gospel of Jesus Christ is to gain a testimony of its great truths. The word Gospel is so often used as a general term. Do those of us who use it understand all of the divisions that go into making up the whole? It is our hope that by studying the Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Relief Society women will understand these various elements which are the necessary parts of the Gospel. We may look upon these Articles as the thirteen foundation stones for the building of testimonies. Many women feel shy about standing on their feet to express their more serious thoughts. This is particularly true in Fast meeting. Some women are too timid to arise where members of the Priesthood are present. So how fine it is that a sister can stand among her friends and neighbors in Relief Society and tell of God's goodness! We seldom miss the opportunity to discuss freely some great pleasure which has come our way—a vacation trip, a new house, an unusual recipe, a gift, or even style trends. Yet, when it comes to speaking of spiritual matters we get a lump in our throats and our thoughts freeze before we can voice them. Why can't we feel as free to discuss the spiritual as we do to discuss the material things of life? We can, if we will just convince ourselves that the one is as easily expressed as the other; further, our beliefs are strengthened when they are expressed verbally. 742 Our Heavenly Father is pleased when we bear witness of his goodness to us. He tells us in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 62:3: "Nevertheless, ye are blessed, for the testimony which ye have borne is recorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your sins are forgiven you." There are those of our sisters who have said, "I don't know that I have a testimony." Others have said, "How do I know whether or not I have a testimony?" I think all Latter-day Saint women have a testimony. Let any one criticize the Gospel or any of its teachings and there swells up within us an urge to defend and explain the points under fire. In this, I feel certain that we all have the elements of a testimony. The Lord is glad to help us secure spiritual knowledge, for he says, "Seek and ye shall find.- Knock and it shall be opened unto you." If we want to study chemistry, physics, or any of the other exact sciences, we plan to set aside a given amount of time for research and learning. If we want to be accomplished in any of the fields of art, we systematically map out a plan of activity that will help us to achieve our goal. Yet there are some of us who would like a knowledge of spiritual truths, and still we do little to secure it. We progress in any course only in so far as we prepare ourselves to achieve in that course. Our fellow men in large numbers expect the Lord to open the heavens RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-NOVEMBER, 1941 and give them a personal manifestation. They ask for a sign or a miracle. In the theology text, Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, the. Author gives a very enlightening treatise on miracles in the chapter entitled "Spiritual Gifts." He writes that we shouldn't look to miracles for proof of divine teachings. He points out that the adversary also has the gift of performing miracles and generously displays his art to deceive and confuse mankind. Inasmuch as we can't always rely upon miracles, we should gather fact after fact and truth upon truth, and with these we can build a bulwark strong and invulnerable to any destroying power. We must keep in mind that a Gospel testimony is a living thing. It may be compared to a fine rose bush which must be cultivated, fertilized, watered and pruned—one which must be guarded as to light and temperature in order to produce lovely blossoms. If any detail of care is left undone the bush either dies or retrogrades into a_ wild, thorny, undesirable shrub without value or beauty. So with a testimony—it must be nurtured, safeguarded and added to, or it will die. Relief Society sisters should safeguard their testimonies and help others to gain one. We read in John 3:33: "He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true." And for witnessing this, we may be heirs to our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 743 Officers Meeting Wednesday Afternoon RoundTable Discussion Conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake. Dr. Bennion: Our assignment is to discuss some of the recurring problems in the teaching of Relief Society classes. I am going to ask Sister Jones to suggest a problem she has encountered. Gwen Jones: In our present campaign for membership, we expect to enroll young matrons of 20 and grandmothers of 7o and 75. Will our classes be interesting to all of these age groups? Dr. Bennion: That is a very pettinent question. I will ask Sister Hyde to give us her opinion on this. Florence I. Hyde: Many of our older women, whose children are married, feel that the lessons have more purpose in the lives of young women who are rearing children. Therefore, I believe it is important for teachers to make an effort to show these women what the lessons can do for them. In the first place, I feel that we can very easily convert them to the fact that any knowledge is worthwhile, and that the knowledge of the things our lessons are designed to teach is very important because of its cultural value. I feel that the lessons have a very practical value for older members, for, after all, grandmothers do have a part in the rearing of their grandchildren, and a knowledge of psychology, theology, and literature, in fact all of the subjects which we teach, will give them greater wisdom in solving problems that may come up in relation to their grandchildren. I remember as one of the richest experiences of my life my grandmother reading stories to her grandchildren, telling of her experiences, and singing some of the old songs that mothers of today do not know. I feel that an effort should be made on the part of every teacher to make her members feel that they have a place of great importance in the plan of life. Dr. Bennion: How can you determine the age of a woman—the intellectual age? Thelma J. Ryser: Very often a woman is young at 65 or 70, or she may be old at 50. I believe it is a good idea to break down the barrier of age. Very often a clash of ideas will bring forth participation from women of all ages. Dr. Bennion: Do you feel that the writers of the lessons had this problem in mind as they wrote? Do you think they made a universal appeal in their writings? Mae S. Best: I think the material does appeal to every age group. There is enough variety in our lesson material to satisfy all. Dr. Bennion: Is there any problem that you have in mind, Sister Best? Mae S. Best: Yes, I would like to ask how we can make our discussions fruitful for everyone, regardless of age. Dr. Bennion: I am glad you used 744 the word "fruitful." Someone has said that when the Germans get together they march, when the French get together they sing, and when the Mormons get together they discuss. In other words, any mature group of Latter-day Saints will discuss if you give them a chance. One very easy way to teach is to throw out a question and just let nature take its course. But the question is whether or not this is fruitful. Sister Ryser, how can discussion be made fruitful? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that assigning a topic is one of the best ways to make a discussion fruitful. There are many ways of assigning a topic. I think a teacher is inviting failure if she just assigns a topic by saying, "We are going to study such and such"; and I think a teacher should not assign a topic unless she is familiar with it herself. She should think the topic through before assigning it, and know to whom she is making the assignment. The assignment should be made in the light of the ability of the sisters, and early enough for thorough preparation. Assignments should be clear and definite and direction should be given in where material dealing with the assigned subject can be found. A time limit should be placed on its presentation. But that is not all; the assignment should be followed up and checked upon by the teacher. Dr. Bennion: Do the women take these assignments, or do they resent being assigned the work? In other words, would they sooner come and listen to a lecture by a well-informed teacher and just acquiesce in what is said, or are they willing to dig in and think through the problems and enter into a discussion? Gwen Jones: I think that depends RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 largely upon the class which they are attending. In the social science class I believe the women like to discuss familiar problems, but in theology and literature I think that they really prefer to just listen. (Dr. Bennion asked members in the audience who agreed with this statement to raise their hands, and a large portion of the audience agreed. ) Dr. Bennion: Sister Best, we have heard that the assignment must be very specific, to the point, and followed up, if the discussion is to be fruitful. That is particularly true if the lessons are one month apart. How are you going to keep the discussion pertinent to the lesson objective? Do you have any trouble with class members wanting to get off on a tangent? Mae S. Best: I believe that if the leader is well prepared, and has a clear and concise idea of the information she wishes to impart, this need not be a great problem. Her questions must also be clearly stated and must not be misleading. 'Then if a person does get off on something that is irrelevant to the subject, she can tactfully ignore it and ask someone else her opinion. I think it is very wise for the leader to always have several illustrations in her own mind that will bring the discussion back to the subject matter at hand. Dr. Bennion: Suppose during a discussion that the necessary facts were not forthcoming; that is, the members did not know the necessary facts to clarify a point or problem. What do you think the teacher should do in that case? Florence I, Hyde: 'The teacher should do a great deal of outside reading and have a wide knowledge of her subject so that she can clarify RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a point in question when the class cannot. However, a teacher cannot know everything, so she might say, "Let us look it up for next time," or she might give it as a special assignment to someone. Dr. Bennion: Do you think it is a disgrace for a teacher to say, "I do not know'? Thelma J. Ryser: If I do not know, I do not mind saying so, but I always arrange to find out before the next class period. Dr. Bennion: We have discussed rather thoroughly how the discussion may be fruitful. Here is another fundamental problem. How can we determine whether the lessons are carrying over from one month to another? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that the problem would be different in different departments in Relief Society. However. I believe all lessons should be subject to review. We have certain points we wish to stress, certain objectives to reach, and during the discussion these points are driven home with force. At the end of the lesson the teacher brings these points together in one definite statement or summary. A review of these main points is a connecting link between one month's lesson and the next. Repetition or the reiteration of any idea fixes it. Dr. Bennion: In other words, it is the obligation of the teacher during the discussion to seize on to the fundamental things brought out. She should put these on the blackboard, in organized fashion, and bring them together in a summary, and these are the things that must be reviewed, repeated, and drilled upon. Would you approve of an examination about 745 twice a year upon these fundamental things? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that might frighten our women. Dr. Bennion: If you did it in sporting fashion it might be a good thing. Children in school have to face it all the time. In more ways than one, we are tested all the time. I am sure, however, that the finest way to make sure your lessons carry over is to take these fundamentals and apply them jn your lives, then they become part of your experience. Thelma J. Ryser: I should like to know how a teacher may improve her work? We all need improvement all the time. Dr. Bennion: There are three or four fundamental things that ought to be mentioned in answering that question: First, the teacher must have a philosophy of life. A religious teacher must have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ—a growing testimony. If she does not have that, if she does not keep rekindling it, she will get discouraged and wonder if her work is worthwhile. Second, she must have a love for human beings; she must be a student of human nature all her days. She must know her group. Third, she must be a student of the learning process, or how learning takes place; she must know something about it. The mission of the teacher is to stimulate and to help develop that which is inside a person. That is a lifelong study. To give a specific suggestion on how a teacher may improve her work, I think at the end of each lesson she teaches, when she gets home, she might sit in a quiet corner and pass judgment on what she did, not just on herself, but on the total situation. She might ask such questions as these: (1) Were the members interested in this class, and what point was most interesting and what point least? Why? (2) Did every member really take part? (3) Did I do my best to enlist such cooperation, particularly with the more timid and backward women? Did they seem to think the lesson worthwhile? (5) Were my objectives achieved? (6) Did the students seem clear as to the purpose of the lesson? (7) Wasmy lesson plan changed any from the way I prepared it? Were these changes good changes, and did they meet the needed situation? (8) Did I make a good assignment? (g) Is it clear to the members why they should undertake it? (10) Are they likely to carry through the assignment? An evaluation of her work helps the teacher to improve it. Thelma ]. Ryser: In addition to technical training, don't you think we need spirituality in our Relief Society teaching? Dr. Bennion: The reason you people who may not have had technical training make wonderful teachers is because you have the spirit of the Gospel in your hearts, you love human beings, you want to try to help save them and you have at least average intelligence. Then you must pay the price in effort. I cannot tell you what that price is to each of you, but if you are willing to pay it, you will be a successful teacher. When asking someone to teach in Relief Society, you should not say, "If you will be a teacher in the Relief Society all you have to do is this and that." Rather, you should say, "This is going to be a great challenge and a big assignment. It will take the very best spiritual and intellectual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 qualities you have if you do it right; but if you will pay the price and do it right, there will be unheard of joys, blessings, and compensations come to you." I would like to emphasize another thing, After receiving this assignment, I inquired around a little and found that in a good many Relief Society classes the teacher is doing the work in lecture fashion. While adults get by with'this better than any other group, it puts a great responsibility on the teacher. The women may enjoy it; it is better for. Them than not being there, for they do some thinking and have a fine social contact by being in attendance. But there is a whole side of them which is neglected—the creative side. We are offspring of the Creator, and the creative side of us is very beautiful; it is divine. If we are going to learn a thing we must think, and discussion stimulates thinking. If we are to learn to judge and weigh one thing against another, we must have an interchange of views. In the lecture, one brilliant person does it all, and the members are deprived of a creative experience. In closing, I would summarize our discussion as follows: We have considered rather briefly four important questions regarding Relief Society teaching— 1. Are the lessons of interest to women of all age levels? My associates in this discussion feel that the lesson writers have had in mind the wide age range in Relief Society and have chosen themes of universal appeal. The sharing of experience by women of all ages is profitable and enriching to all. Nobody is old whose mind is alert and open to new discoveries. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 2. How may class discussions be made most fruitful? First, arouse interest in the lesson and a desire on the part of class members to seek new light on it. This may be done by asking questions to discover what they already know about the lesson or by telling a story or incident which relates the lesson theme to their own lives. Then make a careful, specific assignment and follow it up to be sure it is understood and will carry through. A fruitful discussion should follow, based on an exchange of new insights achieved through fulfilling the assignment. The discussion is a cooperative search for the really significant points of the lesson. The teacher must be able to recognize these essential elements and make an orderly outline of them on the blackboard as they emerge out of the group discussion. 'The teacher should endeavor to meet such handicaps to successful discussion as: (1) lack of needed facts; (2) unwillingness to face new facts; (3) closed minds 747. And resistance to new ideas; (4) love of argument for its own sake; (5) teacher domination; (6) the hobby rider. 3. How can we determine whether the lessons carry over from one month to another? Fssential points of the lesson are brought together in a blackboard summary by the teacher. These should be copied down by each member in a notebook. These are the things that must be reviewed, repeated and drilled upon. Whenever possible, activites should be suggested to help make the lesson a part of life's experiences. Then they become a part of the person and change life for the better. 4. How may a teacher improve her work? By critically evaluating her efforts in the light of her ideal of good performance, by constant study, by prayer, and by living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a teacher will continually improve her work. Ee itera ture Department Humor—A Universal Benefactor Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member T the time the subject of humor was selected as the 1941-42 literature course of study, there was only a foreshadowing of dark days ahead in world affairs. Now storm clouds hang heavily on the social horizon of the whole world. This year, as in other years, it seems that the choice of subject matter was directed to mect a specific need. When bewilderment, headlines, and grim newscasts begin to devitalize our spirits, it is wisdom to consciously do something which will help to release the psychological tension and maintain healthy group morale. At the present time, we may look back and see how in all periods, in all 748 places, and for all people, humor has served as a safety valve, a balance spring to offset the degenerative effects of excesses—too much gruelling work, too much worry, tragedy, excessive vanity, pride, pretense and the common sin of being overserious. | Aside from the present apparent need for more humor, there is another major reason for choosing this particular subject, as indicated in the title itself—"Humor in Life and Literature." Humor is a fundamental human emotion, and as such should be a definite part of good literature, for good literature records life faithfully. Our Relief Society study of literature would be as incomplete without consideration being given to humor as our lives would be drab if robbed of humor. The same test may be applied to determine good humor as to determine good literature in general. The lessons have been developed by the writer in such a manner as to give us definite help on this phase of the subject. The axiom, "Tell me what you laugh at and I'll tell you what you are," directs our thinking to another objective in the selection of this course: the development of discrimination. To direct the choice of illustrations used, to cultivate refinement, polish, and a sense of appropriateness will challenge our best efforts as literature leaders. The result of our work will no doubt be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 a rise in the general tenor of humor enjoyed by Relief Society women. Wholesome enjoyment is certainly a worthwhile objective. Perhaps one of the finest ways in which this course will serve will be through the benefits which will come to our families. We believe that because of it our families will be happier families. Quoting Elsie Carroll, "Humor is a vital element in successful, happy living; a sense of humor is a precious, saving characteristic which (fortunately) can be, at least to some extent, cultivated." Humor lubricates the wheels of living. If we laugh more, perhaps we will scold less. To laugh with our children, to be equipped to tell stories by which they absorb discrimination, is an invaluable means of helping to keep young people wholesome and older people young. To be young in spirit is no idle ambition. The vicissitudes and the many disillusioning experiences which accompany maturity make it so easy to lose much of the natural response to merriment which as children we were blessed with. Because humor has served all periods, we can expect it to serve now. Our appreciation of good, high-class humor as part of good literature will, no doubt, be increased during the coming year, and the level of that which we enjoy should be improved. Our families should be made happier, and we ourselves should be aided in keeping buoyant and young. Public Conversation—'Let's Talk It Over" Presented by Mary G. Judd, Alice B. Castleton, Anna B. Hart, and Irma Bitner. HE conversation, "Let's Talk it Over," was presented for the purpose of suggesting suitable methods of teaching the lessons on humor RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE as well as appropriate activities which might be engaged in in connection with these lessons. The conversation occasionally applied the method suggested to specific lessons. It pointed out that. The lessons in humor were primarily planned to help release present-day tensions and to help establish habits of cheerfulness in our children. The conversation itself demonstrated a method that might find a place in a literature class period. The following helpful suggestions were brought out in "'Let's 'Talk it Over": 1. Assign one member of the class the responsibility of bringing to class an example of a certain type of humor. Ask some one else to explain why we laugh at this. 2. Let a class member dramatize an actual humorous situation. This might lead to more pretentious humorous dramatizations. 3. A number of humorous characters of literature might be presented in the form of a panel discussion; for example, five or six characters might be assigned to five or six different women. The teacher, acting as chairman, would draw out information 749 about these characters through questions. 4. 'Selected humorous subjects might be assigned to small committees. The group would then get together at least one afternoon to prepare the report for class presentation. 5. An appropriate humorous story, song or picture might be used at the beginning of the class period to create a joyful mood. 6. Choice, well-selected cartoons or pictures which tell a humorous story might be shown on a bulletin board or blackboard.. 7. Everyday humorous sayings or situations might be collected and a scrapbook made. 8. Women might discuss their hobbies that touch on humor. G. Several weeks in advance of the lesson, choice humorous selections might be assigned to be memorized and presented to the class. 10. Women who are clever writers might read some of their own humorous compositions. 11. At the first literature lesson, cards might be passed out. On one side of the card women might indicate their own talents; on the other side, the talents of others in the class. 12. In making assignments, a paper might be passed which lists all of the assignments to be made. Women might be asked to sign their names opposite the assignment they are willing to accept. % Social Science Department Supplementary Reading Material Pauline T. Pingree Relief Society General Board Member NE day a friend of mine, referring to a certain teacher, said, "You know when she enters the classroom it is as though a candle had been lighted. She has such a rich educational background! She is well informed about her subject and loves to teach." It is a wonderful thing for a teacher to be able to inspire her listeners in this manner. If a teacher can make the members of her class feel that she has a fund _ of information back of what she is saying, she inspires confidence and adds to her success as a teacher. Now the question arises, "What 750 shall we read in the preparation of our lessons?" First, let us read the Relief Society Magazine. It is a guide for the busy reader, and a first dependable source of information in the preparation of our lessons. It is from lesson material published in the Magazine that lesson objectives are determined and the point of view, approved by the General Board, from which lessons should be taught, is obtained. Magazine material is always in harmeny with the Latter-day Saint point of view. It is a guide in the selection of supplementary reading material necessary to lesson enrichment. Because space in the Magazine is so limited, it is suggested that class leaders do as much outside reading as possible. Read at least two good books this winter which can be applied to our lessons. It is desirous that class leaders be imbued with the Latter-day Saint philosophy of life. Therefore, let us all read the scriptures. They provide information, inspiration, satisfaction and comfort. Other Church publications worthy of our time are The Improvement Era, Brigham Young's Discourses, Gospel Doctrine, by President Joseph F. Smith, Church History, biographies of our Church leaders, et cetera. The chapter, the "Marriage, 'Home, and the Family," found in' Gospel Doctrine, pages 341 to 399, is especially suitable for use in connection with our lessons. In this chapter, President Joseph F. Smith speaks of the necessity of marriage, the sacredness of marriage as it has been revealed to us in the latter days, and eternal marriage. Brigham Young's Discourses, chapters 17 and 18, contains excellent material on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 family and deals with many problems of family life. President Clark's address, "Our Homes," given at the Relief Society general conference, October, 1940, and published in the C December, 1940, Relief Society Magazine, is worthy of consideration. We also recommend the address, "Training For Woman's Work," by Elder John A. Widtsoe, given at the Relief Society general conference, April, 1940, and published in The Relief Society Magazine, June, 1940, page 379. Back lessons on family relations will also be found profitable reading. Current magazines frequently provide excellent articles suitable for use in presenting social science lessons. I am especially partial to The Reader's Digest. Articles published in this magazine are taken from the best magazines on the market; being digests, they are quickly read. I have selected eleven articles from this magazine that are applicable to our lessons: 1. "Footnotes to a Happy Marriage," September, 1939, page 71. 2. "Parents Should be Seen and Not Heard," George Kent, September, 1939, page 81. 3. "Married Leve," Alexis Carrel, M. D., July, 1939, page 12. 4. "Don't Have an Abortion," Jane Ward, August, 1941, page 17. 5. "A Present for the Bride," Francis Newton, August, 1939, page 88. 6. "I Would Not Divorce Him Now," (Anonymous), September, 1941, page 18.. 7. "The Burden Marriage Bears," Harry Zorbaugh, December, 1939, page 41. 8. "Your Happiness is in Your Hands," Boris Blai, April, 1940, page 68. G. "The Philosophy for You in These Times," Bertrand Russell, October, 1941, page 5. 10. "Have You an Educated Heart?" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Gelett 1941, page 81. 11. "The Basic Axiom of Marital Felicity," Donald C. Peattie, October, 1941, page 111. The Ladies' Home Journal is now publishing a series of illustrated articles entitled "How America Lives." Each month this magazine presents the life of a supposedly successful family. 'These families have been selected from different parts of the United States. Up to date, twenty articles have been published, and all are very good. Other periodicals which will be found worthwhile are Good Housekeeping, Parents, Consumers' Guide, American Home, and Hygeia. A number of reference books are listed in the Magazine each month at the end of the lesson, but none has been adopted as a textbook because the content in its entirety cannot be recommended by the General Board. If you desire to buy one book, however, we recommend Good Burgess, October, 751 Housekeeping Marriage Book. 'This book is an outgrowth of a series of articles contributed by such wellknown authors as Eleanor Roosevelt, William L. Phelps, Ellsworth Huntington, of Yale University, and others. Arranged in book form, these articles give to prospective husbands and wives, as well as those already married, specific answers to many questions about marriage. The book is published by Prentice Hall, Inc., New York, and sells for $2, including tax. It is the right use of our spare moments in reading and study which qualify us for leadership. It is not lack of ability that holds people down, but lack of industry. For all who seek self-improvement there is a lion in the way, the lion of selfindulgence, and it is only by the conquest of this enemy that progress is assured. One or two hours' good reading every day will accomplish wonders. Officers ITleeting Thursday Forenoon President's Report and Official Instructions President Amy Brown Lyman THE following report of organizations and reorganizations was given, with grateful appreciation for the splendid service of the retiring officers, and a warm welcome to those newly appointed. ORGANIZATION Stake South Salt Lake Formerly Part of Grant and Wells Stakes Winnie O. Lavin Appointed President Date September 2, 1941 752 REORGANIZATIONS Stake or Mission Released Appointed President Stakes Burley Dora Pickett Agnes Hoggan Grant Martha W. Brown Cassandra D. Bailey Highland Allie R. Barnes Zora C. Paulson Lyman Katherine Blackner Sarah J. Slagowski Nampa LaVera Aston Clara Mason Nevada Nellie C. Brunson Erma Erickson Reno Ethelyn D. States Bertha Jane Purdy Roosevelt Kate Killian Elsie M. Taylor San Bernardino South Sevier Josie B. Bay Jetta Marquardson Twin Falls Afton W. Hunt Washington Louise C. Bennion Missions Tahitian Edna L. Cannon Texas Luella R. Christiansen Western States Ada P. Seegmiller Evelyn Wilde Heath Jennie Brown M. Lennie Ward Elizabeth G. Hales Venus R. Rossiter Martha T. Warner Luceal R. Curtis CENTENNIAL PLANS Desiring to be helpful, we should like to review briefly some of the proposed plans and projects to be carried out in connection with our coming centennial, most of which have already been presented to you. Recommendations for Local Observance of Centennial We call to your attention again the following two definite recommendations to be followed by local Relief Societies throughout the Church: 1. That celebrations be held in all stakes (either in stake or ward capacity) on March 17, 1942, with the exception of those stakes comprising the Salt Lake Region which, due to their location, will hold their celebration in' connection with the general Church-wide celebration at the time of the April conference; 2. That centennial trees be planted on stake and ward chapel grounds. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 Date August 24, 1941 August 17, 1941 - September 12, 1941 May 4, 1941 March g, 1941 September 14, 1941 September 21, 1941 May 11, 1941 June 1, 1941 - September 21, 1941 September 28, 1941 June 22, 1941 September 21, 1941 June 21, 1941 May 15, 1941 August 1, 1941 July 15, 1941 Other Features—Participation Optional 1.. Centennial Poem Contest, which closed October 1, 1941 (see Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 397). 2. Centennial Short Story Contest, which closed October 1, 1941 (see Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 398). 3. Centennial Seals The official centennial insignia, reproduced in blue and gold as a gummed seal, 11/8 inches in diameter, is now available to all Relief Societies desiring to purchase quantities for attaching to programs, booklets, stationery, place cards, or for. Similar uses during this important year. These seals are available only in lots of 100 at the rate of 10c per hundred, postpaid. 4. Centennial Songs Two centennial songs, punched to fit the Relief Society Song Book (the first additions to the loose-leaf Song Book since its publication early in 1940) will be off the press during November— Emigration North Idaho Falls Mary R. Hatch Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie H. Brockbank Ethel Miles RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE A Song of Triumph, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy, postpaid; In His Form, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the General Board, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid. Inasmuch as the combined price of the two songs is 15c, the Song Book, which formerly sold at 85c per copy, postpaid, will hereafter be priced at $1 per copy, postpaid, with the two new songs included. 5. Centennial Concert Stakes and missions are invited to take part in the Singing Mothers' Centennial Concert to be held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle at the time of the general celebration, by selecting for participation in the great chorus of 1,500 voices a delegation of not more than nine good singers—a balanced group of first sopranos, second sopranos, and altos. Although it will be possible for comparatively few singers from each stake and mission to take part in the Tabernacle concert, it is recommended that Singing Mothers throughout the Church be featured extensively in local celebrations in the wards, stakes, and missions. Personal Centennial Souvenirs— Purchase Optional Thinking that every Relief Society woman would probably want at least one souvenir of the centennial, the General Board has arranged for production of a number of commemotative articles from which selection may be made. The purchase of these articles is entirely optional. They are all obtainable from the office of the General Board, and the prices quoted include mailing charges. These centennial souvenirs are: 1. The official Relief Society pin, samples of which have been sent to all stake and mission Relief Society presidents and which are being displayed at your stake Relief Society conferences. 'These are priced $1.80 for 753 the 10-carat solid gold front (that is, gold filled) with 24-carat goldplated back, and $1.10 for the 24- carat gold-plated pin, including federal excise tax and mailing charges. (See Relief Society Magazine, September, 1941, page 612; October, 1941, page 689.). A special centennial commemorative book of 96 pages, size g x 12 inches, to be titled A Centenary of Relief Society, to be bound in durable cover-paper. This book will contain a history of the organization portrayed in both pictures and words—price 50c, postpaid. It is recommended that the regular stake and ward Relief Society Magazine representatives solicit advance orders for this book. This book will include an account of the general centennial celebration in April, and will be off the press about May 1, 1942. 3. A book, Our Legacy—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, by Latter-day Saint women, price $1.50, postpaid, which will be available about December 15, 1941. 4. A centennial plate, 101/2 inches in diameter, upon which will be found a reproduction of an old etching of the organization meeting of the Society, showing Joseph Smith, John Taylor, e and Willard Richards, and the 18 charter members. This plate, handcolored in soft, harmonious colors, will be ready for sale about December 15, 1941. The cost will be $1.50, postpaid. N Relief Society Centennial Memorial One of the most important features of our celebration will be the placing and dedication of a memorial which is to be presented to the Church by the Relief Society and placed upon Temple Square. This memorial will consist of a beautiful tower within which will be placed the famous Nauvoo bell. 'This bell once hung in the Nauvoo Temple and was brought across the plains in 754 the fall of 1847. (For further information see "Our Permanent Centennial Memorial," by Mary Grant Judd, page 769) If any of you would like to see this famous bell you may do so by going into the Bureau of Information where it is now on display in the main corridor. The erection of this tower will cost a considerable sum, and all members of the organization will be given an opportunity to make contributions. From ioc to 25c has been suggested as a schedule for contributions, which is within the reach of many of us. Some may desire to give less, and others more. Let it be understood that making donations to this project, however, is an entirely voluntary and personal matter A special sheet for the names of donors and amounts donated will be provided in the new ward record book kept by the secretary, who will handle the fund; these sheets will OTHER Membership Campaign The General Board is greatly pleased over the progress being made in the membership campaign. The efforts you have put forth during the last three and one-half years have borne good fruit. After our goal of 100,000 has been reached, we shall have a new campaign before us—that of holding and interesting the new members we have enrolled. Officers and class leaders will feel it their duty to be hospitable and to inspire and interest these new members as well as the old faithful ones, and to insure their regular continued attendance. We shall be challenged both individually and collectively in this matter. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 be retained in the ward as a permanent record. Cooperation of M. I. A. In recognition and support of the Relief Society centennial, the General Boards of the Mutual Improvement Association have released to the Relief Society Tuesday evening, March 17, 1942, for local centennial programs. Those who desire to hold celebrations in the evening rather - than the afternoon may therefore feel free to make arrangements with their respective bishops and local M. I. A. Officers for the use of this evening. These Boards have also released the time of the Sunday evening M. I. A. Meeting throughout the Church on November 2, 1941, for a conjoint service of Relief Society and M. I. A. In the interest of Relief Society membership. 'The General Board is very grateful to the Mutual Improvement Associations for these generous concessions.; MATTERS Change in Collection Time of Annual Membership Dues After careful consideration, the General Board has changed the time of collection of annual membership dues from the month of January to the month of October, effective during 1941. Hereafter, the annual dues will not cover the calendar year, but a membership year extending from October 1 to September 30 of the following year. This change was announced to all officers by means of official bulletin No. 17, July 22, 1941, and also in the Relief Society Magazine, October, 1941, page 688. In making the change this year from a calendar to a membership year, members who paid dues in RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE January, 1941, will be expected to pay dues on the new basis in October, 1941. However, no collection will be made next January, and the dues paid in October this year will cover the period up to September 30, 1942. Because regular weekly meetings of Relief Society are not held during the four-month period, June through September, any new members enrolled between April 1 and October 1, 1941, who paid initial membership dues during this period, are to be considered as having paid dues for the new 1941-42 membership year, and are to be issued a 1941-42 membership card without further payment of dues this year. All new members enrolling after October 1, 1941, will be expected to pay annual membership dues upon enrollment for the ensuing membership year ending September 30, 1942. New membership cards have been issued by the General Board covering the membership year October 1, 1941, to September 30, 1942. Inasmuch as this period includes the looth anniversary of Relief Society, the new membership card is printed in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and bears the official centennial insignia. Sewing Survey A survey has recently been made under the direction of the Church clothing committee, on which the General Board is represented, to determine the best method of carrying on a sewing program under the Church welfare plan. All Relief Society stake presidents filled in questionnaires in connection with this survey, and a number of regions 5 were visited and valuable information collected aad tabulated. From this survey recommendations will be forthcoming. We desire to thank our Relief Society presidents for their response to the questionnaires, and the workers in the various localities visited for their courtesy and cooperation. Magazine Subscriptions Magazine subscriptions should be - solicited at or near expiration time. They may begin any month. Some of our stakes have the mistaken idea that the General Board desires all Magazine subscriptions to begin in the month of January. This is not the case. In fact, it would be impossible for us to handle the situation in our mailing department if all subscriptions began in the same month. The only change which was made with respect to Magazine regulations at the April conference this year was that the intensive one-month Magazine promotion campaign might be conducted in whatever month is chosen by the stake, and that hereafter the annual subscription report would cover the calendar year. The annual subscription report is of all subscriptions taken during the year, irrespective of the month with which the subscriptions begin or end. The General Board has continually emphasized that' the Magazine subscription work be distributed throughout the year insofar as possible. In order to assist the representatives in so distributing their work, the General Board began a _new service in June of this year, and sends monthly to all stakes and missions notification slips relating to the expiring subscriptions each month. Mormon Handicraft Shop Your efforts have helped greatly in the twofold purpose of the Mormon Handicraft Shop—to afford our people a market for their handwork, and to foster and perpetuate the crafts which are the heritage of our people. Buyers are interested in things that are made by our Mormon people, especially those articles which are clever and have local or historical significance. No article should be offered under the label of Mormon Handicraft which is not well done and on good material with a harmonious use of color. We wish you would stress these points to your workers who are sending or are planning to send articles to the Shop. We would like as many lovely articles as possible to be available for sale in the Shop during our centennial year. We deeply appreciate your fine loyalty and cooperation in taking membership in the Shop. Last year several stakes had 100 percent of their wards with memberships. We urge you to encourage and teach the different crafts to the young women of the Church. One stake, for example, has a project of teaching its women, especially the young women, the arts of netting and rug weaving. Temple and Burial'Clothing We would like to make a few helpful suggestions for ordering clothing from our Temple and Burial Clothing Department, managed by the Relief Society General Board: 1. Give purpose—whether for temple or burial use. 2. For burial, send order promptly in order to insure delivery by the time desired. 3. State clearly whether for man, woman, or child. 4. Give age, exact measurements, and approximate price for complete order. 5. Postage and express charges are pre- ' paid by the Board. Upon receipt of a telephoned or telegraphed order, we can readily send burial clothing to any place in the United States where there is airmail or air express service, the latter being much less expensive and equally available. Blue Bulletins We trust that you are carefully preserving your blue bulletins and other information which we are sending out from time to time. Stake presidents are advised to see that their counselors and all other members of stake boards read these bulletins as well as other instructions. 'They should also see that whatever applies to wards is sent to them promptly. Reports are made to us that stake board members often do not have the opportunity of reading these instructions. If you do not have time to read them through in meeting, pass them around, (See Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 296, under Blue Bulletins.) Articles of Faith (Card Copies) We regret the delay in the delivery of the card copies of the Articles of Faith, which are to be left in each Latter-day Saint home this year by the visiting teachers. We had expected that they would be ready for distribution on the October visit of the teachers, but through delays in delivery of paper the printers were unable to fill our order on time. We 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE hope now that the cards will be ready and in your hands by the first ot December. You will be kept posted regarding this matter. The cards will be 7x11 inches in size and where desirable may be hung up in the homes, either framed or unframed. 'They will be furnished free of charge by the General Board. What a fine thing it would be if in every home these precious Articles of Faith could be memorized by every member of the family! Welfare Memorandum Sheets We are pleased to announce that beginning with the month of January, 1942, ward presidents will be provided with family record or memorandum sheets (buff in color) upon which to keep a record of families under care. These sheets will be a helpful tool for ward presidents, providing a place to record information which is important for them to have in order to make intelligent recommendations to the bishops regarding the needs of these families. Accompanying the record sheets will be a weekly food distribution guide (blue in color) prepared in connection with the Church Welfare Committee. With these there will be full instructions regarding their use. These sheets are perforated and are to be placed in a loose-leaf binder, held by the ward president or her social service aid. The sheets will be provided by the General Board, but the wards will be expected to pay for the binder, which can be had at the Relief Society office for 6oc, including a helpful set of five divider sheets with index tabs, or 40¢ for the binder without the index. A discussion of this matter is being taken up in your stake conferences 757 this fall in the meeting with bishops and ward presidents. You will therefore have full opportunity to learn of all details connected with it before the records are put into use January 1, 1942. Social Science Department There has been no provision for a social science lesson in December, due to the holiday season. The General Board does not require that a meeting be held on the fourth 'Tuesday, December 23. Any ward desiring to meet on that date will furnish its Own program. Literature Department It is suggested that the literature lesson which would regularly come on the third Tuesday, March 17, 1942, our 100th anniversary, be given on March 31, the fifth Tuesday of the month. Work-and-Business Meeting The use of the topic provided for work-and-business meeting is optional. It has been suggested that the time for formal presentation of the topic not exceed fifteen minutes, during which time sewing be suspended, and that presentation be followed by formal discussion, and demonstration where desirable, simultaneously with the sewing or other handwork. (Wards desiring to hold an all-day work-and-business meeting, with one session devoted to sewing or other handwork, and one session for consideration of the home topic would, of course, give more time to formal presentation of the topic.) Union Meetings We call attention again to the fact that union meeting is a lead- ership meeting, the most' important features of which should be study, preparation, business and discussion of problems. Long preliminary programs and other merely entertaining features are not desirable and should not encroach upon the time for departmental work. Relief Society union meetings are not required (but may be held if desired) during May, June, July, and August, but should be held in September and on through the educational year. Special officers and visiting teachers' class leaders need not be required to attend union meeting monthly, but they should be called to union meeting as often as seems necessary in order to assist them in effectively carrying forward their respective assignments. Ward Conferences The. General Board recommends for your consideration that a preliminary meeting be held in connection with ward conferences, to be attended by the stake board representative assigned to the conference, the ward executive officers, and the ward bishop or his representative; that the length of such meeting be decided locally, and that the holding of such meeting be optional rather than required. It is pointed out that such a meeting would provide an opportunity for a representative of the stake board to discuss ward problems with the ward officers as a group—an opportunity which is not provided in the union meeting. In some stakes where these meetings are now held, the official visitor from the stake carries with her a questionnaire which she fills out during the preliminary meeting and carries back to the board. This procedure makes it possible for the stake board to better understand conditions in the ward. It is recommended that ward conferences this year feature membership. Helps in this respect have been sent out in official blue bulletin No. 17. Visits To Wards Stake board members in visiting wards on regular meeting days do so primarily with the view of learning how the work is being carried on and how the stake board can be the most helpful. The question has been raised as to whether stake board members are always expected to speak when visiting a ward in their official capacity. The recommendation of the General Board is that representatives of the stake board at ward Relief Society meetings should deliver any special message assigned to them by the stake board as clearly and briefly as possible, so as not to prolong the meeting unduly or usurp the. Time allotted for the lesson, but that stake boards are to assign topics for presentation in ward meetings only as occasion requires, not as a matter of routine. The question has also been raised as to what questions are to be answered by stake board members when visiting ward Relief Society meetings, aud what questions should be reterred back to the stake board for decision. The General Board suggests that stake board members may properly answer those questions arising during an official visit to a ward concerning which policies are well established and substantiated by rulings or recommendations in writing in the Relief Society Handbook, in official instructions issued at gen- 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eral Relief Society conferences, in official bulletins from the General Board to the stake, or in stake adaptations of General Board policies and recommendations or stake rulings on local Relief Society projects which appear in the minutes of the stake board meeting; but that questions not covered by written instructions or recommendations, or any exceptions or modifications of such regulations, be referred back to the stake board for clarification and decision, so that uniform policies may be developed with respect to similar problems in all wards, and so that, if necessary, the points in question may be referred to the General Board for consideration. Answers to Letters and Telegrams It is requested that letters and telegrams sent out from the Relief Society headquarters to stake presidents asking for immediate reply be answered promptly. For example, in planning our stake conferences and the dates upon which they may be held, it is very necessary that questions sent out regarding these matters be answered at once. Sometimes a second letter has been necessary and even a telegram in order to get the desired information. Stake presidents will please take note of this. Magazine Binders We have recently received at headquarters the binders for the Relief Society Magazine which were ordered many weeks ago, a sample of which was shown at April conference. Each binder will hold a total of twelve issues of the Magazine, single copies of which may be inserted or removed as desired. This binder is a great convenience to 759 officers, class leaders, and Magazine representatives who desire to keep the current issues of the Magazine together for ready reference. The price of the binder is 75¢ postpaid. Church Seminaries We would like to call to your attention the important and effective work being done by our Church seminaries, and ask for your interest and support. They have been established by the Church and are conducted at great expense for the benefit of our children—to teach them the, Gospel and to develop within them faith and spirituality. What could be more important to our children than such training! Relief Society mothers can aid the seminary movement best by urging their children to attend, and after they are enrolled, by taking an interest in what they are studying. Seminary teachers are grateful for the cooperation of parents. Church Medical Care and Hospitalization The Presiding Bishopric desires it to be understood that members of the Church who are recommended to Latter-day Saint hospitals by bishops for free medical care are assigned to the doctor who is on the particular service which they require. Doctors in the hospitals rotate on the various services which cover certain periods of time. If a patient desires to be cared for by his personal physician, his case becomes a private one, which precludes Church hospitalization. (See "Progress of the Church," February, 1941, p. 59.) Liquor and Tobacco Relief Society is supporting vigor- 760 ously the campaign for the non-use of liquor and tobacco. Total abstinence is our motto. Beautification Campaign We appreciate very much the activity of our members in the campaign to beautify our homes and communities. The lovely flower gardens, well-kept lawns, improved public grounds and parks, together with the renovated homes and public buildings, are silent witnesses of the efforts put forth by both men and women in Latter-day Saint communities. Our Relief Society centennial trees, to be planted on Church grounds everywhere, will be a contribution to the Church beautification program. Sacrament Meeting We call the attention of Relief Society women to the fact that the most sacred service of religious worship is that of the sacrament. The members of the Church are expected to present themselves before the sacrament board and renew their covenants with their Maker. In the "Progress of the Church" for April the importance of Sacrament meeting is stressed. It is stated that this is the one meeting set forth in revelation for ward members to attend. It has been specified as the official meeting of the members of the ward. Tithing It is recommended by the General Authorities that children of eight years should be taught to pay tithing on their earnings. This habit RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 should be established early in order that children may enjoy all the blessings connected with it. Mothers can do much to see that these. Instructions are carried out. Fast Day Fast day observance is particularly called to the attention of the mothers, who, because of their direction of home affairs, have it largely within their power to see that this day is properly observed. It is still requested that two meals be omitted on Fast Day and that the amount equal to the cost of these be sent to the bishop to be used for the care of the needy. Literature for Soldiers The General Authorities of the Church have recommended that those who have sons in army training camps see to it thatthese boys are supplied with Church works. Arrangements have been made by the Church whereby the books can be purchased reasonably. Ward bishops have full information regarding this matter and should be consulted by those who are interested. We suggest that the mothers support this splendid movement. We suggest also that mothers help to keep their sons informed regarding the location of mission headquarters and Church branches nearest the training fields where our boys are located, and that they write to their sons frequently or see to it that other members of the family do so. Our boys need all the help and protection we can possibly give them. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 761 The Heme Stretch In rilerabieahip Belle S. Spaftord Relief Society General Board Member ODAY we face the home stretch inthe four-year intensive campaign of the Relief Society for 100,000 members by 1942, that is, by the end of 1941. But three months are ours—ours in which to win or lose; ours in which to assure the thrill of achievement or the sting of disappointment. The intensive. Effort of the past must be sustained, ingenuity and resourcefulness additionally taxed, and loyalty further tried if we are to succeed. In our last-minute determination to succeed many new devices will no doubt be used to win the "hard to win." Under the "home stretch" pressure extreme care will be necessary lest in our eagerness to achieve our goals we lower our standards or resort to practices or procedures that are not of the highest type. Contests launched—poetry, music, slogans, etc.—should reflect such high standards of excellence that they will challenge the interest of the most gifted as well as those who are less talented. Material selected for awards or special recognition should reflect credit upon the Society as well upon the individual submitting it. Showmanship, publicity, — etc., should be of a type that will appeal to mature women. Let us remember that while novel devices have value in catching initial interest and spreading news of the campaign, the actual enlistment of women is in reality the result of personal invitation, intelligent explanation of our program and objectives, and high standards of work within our Society. It is suggested that once again we read the instructions given by President Lyman at the Presidents' Breakfast last April and published in the Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 300, headed "Attendance Not a Pre-Requisite. For Enrollment." Let us be careful not to misinterpret or misapply this ruling. Particularly note the sentence, "It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the Society." Two dominant factors enter into the application of this ruling: (1) the attitude of the women solicited for membership, and (2) the judgment of the one soliciting her. We all know that membership in Relief Society implies more than the purchase of a membership card. Questions are frequently asked as to whether the 60 percent membership quota may be applied to the known number of eligible women, rather than to the number of Latterday Saint families. As stated at the April conference (Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 315), itr is recognized that there are no women in a small proportion of the total families. Had the exact number of Latter-day Saint women been known to us, the quota would have been based on this number, rather than on the number of families. However, the percentage based on this smaller number would necessarily have been more than 60 percent 762 of the number of Latter-day Saint families—not 60 percent of a lesser number. Adjustments in the basic number may be justified in a few exceptional instances where conditions are extremely unusual. 'These adjustments should be cleared with the General Secretary. We repeat that the final status of each stake at the end of 1941 will be computed on the number of Latter-day Saint families in the stake at that time. Priesthood cooperation is an important factor in the success of all that we do as a Relief Society organization. We recommend that the wholehearted, active participation of the Priesthood be enlisted. 'This has been successfully accomplished in the Northern States Mission, where mission, regional and branch presidents are serving as co-chairman with their respective Relief Society presidents in the interest of increased membership in the Society. Cooperating with the Relief Society mission president, Ethie Muir, in initiating this campaign throughout the mission, President Leo J. Muir wrote: "We have felt it proper to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 enlist the cooperation of branch presidencies in this campaign, since we regard this as a matter of great importance to the branches of this mission." Do not lose track of young women who because of the defense program are moving to new localities. Find out where they are going and notify Relief Society officers presiding over those districts of their presence in the community. Further suggestions which should be helpful to us in the successful culmination of our campaign, will — be made available to stakes and missions in bulletin form in the very near future. Even though a few of us may feel that our individual goal is beyond reach, we must not be discouraged and relax our efforts. Neither must we be complacent and satisfied if we have gone "over the top." The achievement of the general goal of our four-year intensive membershipbuilding program rests upon the sustained individual effort of every one of us during the next three months. Highlights And Sidelights In Membership Zora C. Paulson Highland Stake Relief Society President LAST April when we attended Relief Society general conference, we thought our stake needed about 45 more members in order to reach its membership quota. Imagine our disillusionment and astonishment when we looked at the pictograph and found we had 629 new members to gain. Naturally we were worried, but we resolved to put forth our very best efforts to make a decided change in our membership status during the remaining months of the campaign. With this determination in mind, we went to our April union meeting with some definite plans. We graphically told our wards where we stood, and explained our summer's work. Wards were anxious to do their part. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE A special membership meeting in May, as was requested. By the General Board, was held with splendid results. Presidencies and coordinators were invited and were asked to be prepared to give tentative plans for their summers membership work. Stake officers also prepared a detailed list of specific suggestions for increasing membership, and a talk was given on "Why Increase Relief Society Membership?" Plans made and suggestions given were not just left on paper, but were immediately put into effect. This meeting gave us so much help and inspiration that the same workers decided to meet at ten o'clock the third Tuesday of each month during the summer, report progress, exchange new ideas and _ methods of procedure. These meetings have been very profitable. The intensive summers work shows some gratifying highlights; for example, in one of our wards forty new members have been enrolled. The visiting teachers of another of our wards met one Tuesday to start their special work in connection with the campaign. A short rally was held, and teachers were instructed to visit every home in the ward. When they returned to report that afternoon, they had enlisted 26 new members; 36 other women had promised to join the Society this fall. In another ward, g homes were visited one morning with a gain of 6 new members. Tuesday, October 2, most of our wards had entertainments in the interest of membership, such as a women's convention, a luncheon, an "at home" social, a reception, et cetera. Written invitations were sent to 763 every woman in the wards. The response was beyond expectation; some wards had 50 or more unenrolled women attend. At the close of - one of these luncheons 125 women paid their dues; 40 of these women enrolled as new members. Through all our membershipbuilding program we have emphasized as our main objective sharing the intellectual and spiritual wealth of Relief Society with mote sisters. Our visiting teachers have been urged to carry the Magazine when visiting and to leave copies with interested unenrolled members, to be called for at a later date. During the summer, executive officers and coordinators have gone visiting with the visiting teachers, the group first meeting in the morning prior to making their visits. They have had a song and prayer and received helpful membership instructions for the day. Then all have gone out at the same time to make their visits. When visits were finished, the women returned to the Church, reported their accomplishments, and were served a refreshing drink and cookies. There have been significant sidelights. One ward has had a series of luncheons carrying out the following procedure: For the first luncheon, ten guests were invited—eight members and two prospective members. The eight members, in groups of two were asked to entertain from four to six more prospective members. This continued until all of those not belonging to the Society had been entertained. Small groups made it possible for the women to become really acquainted. The benefits of Relief Society were stressed at each luncheon. Early in May another ward had its 764 coordinator visit the Priesthood meeting, with the approval of the bishop, and give an interesting talk on Relief Society during the opening exercises. She presented each. Man and boy with an invitation to give to some unenrolled woman— the mother in his own home or a neighbor. Many of our coordinators have since visited the Priesthood meetings for the purpose of enlisting the help of the brethren in our membership campaign. All of the fruits of our efforts will not be gathered in our own stake. Such stories as the following let us know they are being garnered elsewhere in the Church: A lady living in an apartment RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 house was enlisted, attended twice and moved from the stake. She wrote the Relief Society president: "Tam glad you introduced me to Relief Society. I attend regularly now and thoroughly enjoy it." We have had various ways of advertising the campaign; for example, slogans in the Church foyer (changed often), badges, and campaign pins. Through the intensive efforts of the past few months, we have entolled about twice as many as were enrolled in the three previous years. With the enthusiasm that is felt throughout the stake, we feel reasonably sure we will go "over the top." ce. Eneral Session Thursday Afternoon Message From President Heber J. Grant IF my health would permit, it would be a great pleasure for me to express in person my appreciation and approval of the work which the sisters of the Relief Society are doing ligion and teaching her children to do likewise is a great strength to the Church, and will receive the blessings of the Lord. It is important that the Gospel be taught in the home, both by precept and by example. 'The influence of the mother in doing this is very effective. It will be one hundred years next March since the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the first Relief Society in Nauvoo. Your efforts to enroll in your organization 100,000 A faithful mother living her remembers when it is one hundred years old appeals to me. I have confidence in the ability of the sisters to do this. May you be constantly sustained and inspired in your efforts to bring to every Latter-day Saint home the blessings and privileges of this great organization. From my earliest childhood, before I could even understand what was being discussed, my mother (being a widow and I her only child) took me with her to the meetings of the Relief Society. At one of these meetings while I was playing on the floor in the home of William C. Staines, who lived on the corner of South Temple and Fifth East Streets, Eliza R. Snow, by the gift of tongues, blessed me and promised RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that I would become an apostle. The interpretation was given by Zina D. Young. My mother always told me, from my childhood on, as I became old enough to understand, that if I would behave myself and live a good clean life, I would yet become an apostle. Whenever she mentioned it, I always laughed and told her, "Every mother thinks her boy is going to be something wonderful; get it out of your head, because I have no desire to become a leading Church man, I want some day to become a businessman." Throughout my youth and young manhood she continued to refer to the fact that unless I lived a good clean life, I never would become an apostle. After I became an apostle, having been called to that office by revelation, she asked me if I remembered the meeting which was attended by Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, and I told her I did, that though I was only a small child at the time, I remembered it. "Do you remember what was said?" "I did not hear anything Sister Snow said, because I could not understand her." Mother said, "Of course you could not; she spoke by the gift of tongues. But do you remember what Sister Zina Young said?" I replied, "Yes. She said I would grow to be a great big man, and since I have grown up, I have often thought of it." "She didn't say anything of the kind! She said you would become 765 a big man in the Church, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ." I said, "I did not understand it that way." Mother then said, "Now that you are an apostle, do you remember a great dinner, with many people present, given in the home of Heber C. Kimball, on Main Street?" "Yes." "Do you remember a dinner for the children after the big dinner, and he picked you up and stood you on the table, and stood there and prophesied that you would become one of the leaders in the Church, a greater man than your father, who had been one of the Presidency of the Church?" "I do not remember anything he said; all I recall of the incident was that he had the blackest eyes I ever saw, and I was scared while he was talking to me." I thought it would be well for the Relief Society sisters to know that by the gift of tongues in a Relief Society meeting, and by the prophecy of one of the Presidency of the Church, it was declared while I was yet a child that I should some day be one of the leading men in the Church. I may have told this before in my talks to the Relief Society, but | it is worthy of being repeated again at this time. May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel, and all who are engaged in building up the Church and Kingdom of God on the earth. May the peace and blessings of heaven abide in your homes and fill your hearts with a love for mankind and for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Opening Address General President Amy Brown Lyman HIS afternoon in this general session we extend to you dear sisters greetings and a hearty welcome. We want you to know that we appreciate you and the splendid work you are doing in the local units. We appreciate your interest and devotion to our cause, and the efforts you are putting forth in the interest of the great Church welfare plan. It is your devotion and your work which make the development and success of the Relief Society possible, and which are a great - factor in the success of the welfare plan. Since our last conference, world tragedies have increased in connection with the social revolution which is raging in Europe; and because many of our fellow members, near 10,000, are living and suffering in these war-torn countries, our hearts are especially touched. We would have them know that they are remembered today in this conference, that they have our love and sympathy and our earnest prayers that they may be able to meet with faith and courage the trials with which they are faced. In letters from Europe, we learn that the Relief Society members are carrying on nobly. In some places they are the chief factor in holding the branches together. They are even conducting branch meetings, where men, both old and young, have been called into service. Only about once a month, however, when members of the Priesthood on leave can attend, do they have the blessing of the sacrament. In our own country we wonder what lies ahead. As we try to look into the future we cannot be other than apprehensive. Already we feel the effects of the preparations which are being made for national defense. In times like these, we try to formulate and adopt some philosophy which will help us to face our problems with composure and help us to be more effective in our lives. An excellent piece of advice which we have repeatedly had from our Church leaders, and which always applies, is that each individual should put his house in order. This advice seems especiaNy appropriate today. Professor Levi Edgar Young, in an article in this September Relief. Society Magazine, quotes from the recent inaugural address of the Governor of Vermont. The Governor said, among other things, "Tf America is to be saved, each individual must first put his own house in order." He urged a spiritual reconstruction of the people as a prerequisite to the economic and moral salvation of the nation. Dr. Edward T. Devine, eminent social worker, contends that "The first thing to do to improve conditions in the world today locally, nationally, and internationally, is to set our own houses in order. If in the family, neighborhood, and community we meet our problems, it will be easier for us to meet world problems. The home front should be recognized as just as important as the front line. It has been demonstrated time and again that the endurance and morale of people in all walks of life and in all times and seasons, is built on the security of 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the home and family." This philosophy indicates that home and family standards, ideals, and influence in the community and the nation are finally among the determining factors in many great movements. In contemplating the idea of putting one's house in order we naturally think first, as we should, in terms of the spiritual, for spirituality and religion should be fundamental to all else; we believe that spirituality and religion are the greatest dynamics known to man. It is religion, spirituality, and faith which help people to understand the sacredness of human personality and the doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and which help them to face the vicissitudes of life. Our sacred books are replete with ideal patterns of living and standards of conduct for us to follow—the decalogue, the Sermon on the Mount, other teachings of the Savior, and modern revelation. THERE is another bit of good advice which we have had from our leaders both in times of prosperity and in times of adversity, in dark days and bright, and which relates especially to practical living. It is that we should avoid debt — live within our income and save for the future. This advice seems especially appropriate today. With work more plentiful than it has been for some time and with wages good, it would be a wise thing for us to get out of debt and to lay by something for the future. In times of prosperity preparations should be made for the non-prosperous period. There are those who say that it does not pay to save, that money is so often lost. Nevertheless, thrift 167 is considered by wise philosophers as a great asset, and as one of life's greatest character builders. At this time, when so much is at stake, when thrift instead of extravagance is going to mean so much in the end, not only to us, but to generations to come, it should be one of the most important subjects for discussion. Nothing is more valuable than a fixed habit of thrift. While some thrifty people have lost their savings or have been taken advantage of, they will tell you that the cultivation of this virtue has helped them to overcome many obstacles on the way back. It is surely not the part of wisdom to launch out into risky enterprises at this time, or to purchase on installment things which are unnecessary. Let us understand that this spurt of prosperity is in reality abnormal and probably short-lived. Great expenditures of money for defense or for war may diminish unemployment temporarily, but it will not dissolve it. Someone has wisely said, only recently, "War spending is not prosperity: it is the impoverishing of the future by the dissipation of the wealth of the past, and the mortgaging of the present." I wonder if some of us are taking on burdens and obligations which we will not be able to meet. Are we buying things we do not really need? Are we paying too much for homes or for rent? Economists tell us that if we are paying more than double or more than 2'4 times our yearly income for a home we are paying too much, and unless we receive help from somebody else, we will eventually come to grief. For example, if a man who must depend entirely upon himself earns a yearly salary 768 of $2,000, he cannot afford to buy a home which costs more than $4,000, or $4,500 at the most. If he goes beyond this, he will surely be in financial difficulty. We are also advised that we should pay only 18 percent to 20 percent of our yearly or monthly income for rent. For instance, a man whose income is $150 per month, should not pay more than $27 to $30 per month for rent. If his income is $100 per month, he should not pay more than $18 to $20. If he pays at a higher rate than this, some other essential will suffer, such as food, clothing, or health needs. New women are the homemakers. The homemaker is looked upon these days not only as someone who creates a comfortable place to come -home to, but as the great consumer of the world. Eighty-five percent of the buying is done by women, including practically all the things to be used in the home. This means a tremendous enlargement of our responsibilities. Walter Pitkin, the writer, says: "Consumers must be _ educated. Hardly one American in ten thousand knows what and how to buy. Every year women spend and misspend twenty billion dollars or more. Fully a quarter of this vast sum is wasted. Those women know. The price of everything and the value of nothing.' Few consistently get their money's worth. What can we do? Educate consumers by: (1) showRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 ing them how to identify quality in everything from a hamburger steak to a fur coat; (2) demonstrating by case and number that high price doesn't mean high quality; (3) showing that pretty packages often contain shoddy goods; (4) teaching families to make incomes go further with intelligent budgeting. The list is endless." Anticipating the need for careful buying and managing in these days, Relief Society has recently inaugu- 'rated a course in "Better Buymanship." I trust we shall get some practical help from this course. Our whole Church welfare program is a practical demonstration of the slogan, "Put your own house in order." The plan has a long-time program with a general objective or aim, and with permanent goals in view. It also has today an immediate aim—that of preparing for a probable post-war depression which past experience predicts will come. In helping to achieve these aims and objectives the Relief Society will not be found wanting. In conclusion I would like to urge that we, Relief Society workers, " in these strenuous months ahead do not lose sight of the important fact that the physical, moral, and spiritual standards of our homes and our communities must not be let down or lost sight of, but must be held up and even strengthened. For the days ahead let us adopt our conference theme: "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap if we faint not." RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 769 Our Permanent Centennial Memorial Mary G. Judd Relief Society General Board Member WE are certain that all who attend the Church-wide centennial celebration to be held in connection with the Relief Society general conference, April, 1942, will return to their homes feeling that they have participated in what is truly an epochal period in Relief Society history.. And yet, unless we do something about it, the time will come when this wonderful occasion will be a thing of the past and will live only in our memories. And so it has come to the General Board with ever-increasing clearness that some permanent memorial should be left—something of lasting value. Casting about for a suitable project, the idea came to mind of hanging the historic Nauvoo Temple bell in a permanent and beautiful setting. It was not until the subject was broached to the Presiding Bishopric that it was learned that such a project had been under consideration for some time, but that no definite decision on the matter had been reached by the First Presidency. So we feel that perhaps the plans had been slowed up in order that the Relief Society could have the privilege of placing this bell on Temple Square to commemorate the unselfish service and wonderful devotion of thousands of Latter-day Saint women over a period of one hundred years. We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women to more efficiently do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung. There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West, came Fliza R. Snow, our first secretary; and, safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our first meetings in Nauvoo. It was in the second great exodus from Winter Quarters—the exodus which in my mind is second to none in history—that the Nauvoo Temple bell played a prominent part. I like to visualize those early morning scenes on the plains. Let me read one of many quotations that might be given from the day-by-day record of the trek. The entry for June 22, 1847, reads: "The morning was fine and calm at the encampment of the emigrating Saints. At 8 o'clock a.m. The signal for starting was given by the ringing of the Temple bell. The companies formed with five lines abreast, with the Temple bell in the lead. In this order the companies traveled that day twelve miles and reached Diamond Island, where they camped for the night, about sundown. 'They watered their cattle in the Platte River by moonlight and then took them out to feed a while." Just where did the bell come from originally? We have information which tells. Us. In the year 1845, Wilford Woodruff was presiding over the British Mission. On May 8 of that year, he received a communication from the Council of the Twelve, which read: "We thought it would be very agreeable to the feelings of the English Saints to furnish a bell for the Temple. If this is their pleasure, you can forward it by the first conveyance, and we will have it hung as the building is going up." Brother Woodruff reports having collected $1,500 from the English Saints, which would easily cover the cost. It was but a short time that the bell hung in the place for which it was intended, for "Nauvoo the Beautiful," because of the designs of wicked men, became a place of desolation. After the first group of Saints had fled from their loved city over the icy Mississippi, Colonel Thomas L. Kane tells how he heard the mob who had taken possession of the Temple, whooping and 'shrieking in drunken frenzy as they beat a drum and rang the bell. From Winter Quarters, under date of September 26, 1846, President Brigham Young sent a letter back to Nauvoo in which he said: "As you will have no further use for the Temple bell, we wish you to forward it to us by the first possible chance, for we have much need of it at this place." President Young's letter came just in time, for already lawless persons had planned to steal the bell. Grateful appreciation is due David Burlock Lamoreaux, who saved the bell. The marauders had hoisted it and were making ready to steal it when Brother Lamoreaux drove his wagon underneath, loaded the bell upon it, and delivered it to the Church—its rightful owner. It is the plan to give this historic bell, which has been in our midst longer than the memory of any living man, the kind of setting which it so richly deserves. An able architect, Brother Lorenzo Young, who is also a grandson of Brigham Young and a grandnephew of Eliza R. Snow, has designed a graceful tower to house the bell. The base will be of granite, the top of grilled bronze, to harmonize with the bronze bell. The First Presidency has given us not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement in this project, for which we thank them. What could be more fitting than that the tones of this melodious bell should ring out joyfully at the culmination of the Relief Society centenary, even as they did at the beginning of the century when Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith? The Need Of Organization Counselor Marcia K. Howells AS our Relief Society century draws to its close, we marvel at what has been accomplished. There is power and strength in organization. We were organized by a prophet of God. A later prophet, President Joseph F. Smith, said of Relief Society: "I expect to see the day when 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this organization will be one of the most perfect, most efficient and effective organizations for good in the Church. It stands for the people of God, for nghteousness, for justice, for good and more good all the time." Our women, guided by the Priesthood, have tried to meet needs of all kinds. With an earnest desire and an adequate organization the work of the Society has progressed. Relief Society women have gathered and stored grain, made clothing for the Indians, made, laundered and mended clothing for temple workers, grown mulberry trees and helped with silk culture, and promoted home industry. It was about 65 years ago that President Brigham Young made a special call on the Relief Society to help establish home industries. Sister Eliza R. Snow eagerly supported the making of straw hats at home. These were to cost from 50c for men's hats suitable to wear in the field, to $1.75 for hats suitable for fine wear. A letter from a Relief Society in Cache Valley stated, "We are doing all in our power to sustain home manufacture. We have sent two ladies to Brigham City to learn braiding, millinery, et cetera, and we hope with our own exertions and the means we have on hand, to build a house for the Society and to establish a school for young ladies to learn to make hats, bonnets and many of the articles we are now importing." Reports and letters received from near and far show the value of organized effort along all lines. An interesting letter from Ephraim in 1875, speaking of donations, stated: "Three hundred dollars, having been donated in Sunday eggs, will be sent TMm to Denmark to assist the poor in emigrating from the old country.... The donations of the sisters are seldom in money, that being a very scarce commodity here, but in eggs, butter, pork and cheese, also remnants and scraps, either of cotton or woolen, which the sisters make up into quilts; some are sold, some loaned to the poor. Four were made for the brethren who went to St. George to work on the temple." Some of us will remember the prompt help given by the Relief Society women at the time of the San Francisco earthquake and fire. It was 35 years ago that the news came by wire to Salt Lake City from San Francisco one morning in April. President Bathsheba W. Smith, then 84 years of age, came down to the Relief Society office with all haste. A car was secured from the railroad company, and a carload of flour was soon ready—the first carload of flour to reach the sufferers. Just as these women met needs, so we are preparing to meet present needs and possible future emergencies. This has been shown by our response to the great welfare program of the Church. Reports fail to do justice to the devotion and unselfish efforts which our women have given to this splendid work. May we ever be ready and willing to assist the Priesthood. Relief Society keeps us on the pathway that leads us back to our Heavenly Father. A vast throng of women are now affiliated with the Society. We are still reaching out for other good women. There are many in the Church not yet with us. Satisfaction and happiness come from active membership. We have never needed the blessings of the Lord and his sustaining influence more than we do at the present time. Nothing else can sustain us as much as faith in God—the faith which can be measured by activity. If you have been benefited and blessed because you are a member of Relief Society, will you not help to extend these same benefits and blessings to others by enlisting them as members? Our program was designed for all: Latter-day Saint women. Organized as we are, nearly any accomplishment is possible. I eagerly await the centennial year—the proper. Observance of a century of service given by women of the Church. I trust it will be a rededication to the future of the love and loyalty of 100,000 Latterday Saint women. Ee Meeting Relief Society's Challenge Counselor Donna D. Sorensen. THE Prophet Joseph Smith said, "We are all responsible to God for the manner we improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves." 'T'his large audience today bespeaks the interest with which the women of this Society enter upon its one hundredth year of activity, and we know that you desire in this organization to "improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord." Next Tuesday, October 14, the official classroom instruction will commence for the thousands of members of this Society. Some 11,000 class leaders will go forward with an educational program designed to advance women toward exaltation. As you were informed last conference, "the growth in membership in the Relief Society during the past three years is unparalleled by any similar period," and this year will see other thousands added to our numbers. If you were giving a feast, you would ask those whom you loved to eat with you. Often I have heard many of you say, as I have said, "Here in this woman's organization I have found that which was meat to my body and food to my soul." You believe this as sincerely as I do, but we should remember that the reason for our feeling thus is because we have felt the nearness of those who think as we do from a religious standpoint; we have found friendship; we have tasted the sweetness of service and gained a love for this organization which comes from working in it. Those thousands coming into our organization as new members have not tasted the joy which comes from affiliation with this particular society. We have invited them to a feast which we know full well they will enjoy and appreciate if the setting can be as nearly perfect as possible. First impressions can be such lasting ones. As this conference features the educational work, probably my thoughts have been with the responsibility of the class leaders and the challenge they face in making their contribution to this feast. A great deal of the responsibility of keeping these new members inter- 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ested and active in the organization will rest upon the ability of class leaders to interest them in the educational program. 'The increased number of women in ward classes will demand from the class leader greater dependability, more careful preparation of material, more alertness to methodology, and experimentation with new forms of adult teaching. Yesterday's conference program was planned to give help along these lines. The class leaders, however, share the responsibility with the ward officers of the organization. Ward officers must plan well; they must carry on the mechanics of the organization with dispatch; they must possess vision and cultivate diligence. We are challenged to be resourceful and diligent when we are called to labor in the Church in any capacity. It is a privilege to serve in this organization at any time, but it is a special delight to occupy positions of trust during such a memorable and significant year. As the culminating effort in a century of progress and light, this year's effort should be the best of all previous years. But the responsibility for the success of the work of this organization rests not alone upon ward officers and class leaders, or upon stake boards or the General Board. It extends beyond these and embraces each member of this worthy organization. 'The General Board is confident that through the effort of each member of this Society we shall reach our goal of 100,000 by the centennial 773. The General Board desires not only the help of each present member of the Society in enlisting new members, but we would like your assistance in making permanent and strong the ties which bind these new members to this organization in the future. The Relief Society is more than a woman's organization, it is a Church auxiliary, and because this is so, a feeling of warmth and understanding should prevail in our contacts. No one should come to one of our Relief Society meetings and leave again without having been made welcome.. For we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ abiding in our hearts, and those who come to our Society are not only our friends, but they are our sisters in the Gospel. We, you and I, must take the time to extend the handclasp, to speak the kind word, to share the little experience, to inquire about a loved one. Jesus called it loving our neighbor as ourself. Yes, we are challenged by our growth in this one-hundredth year, but in the words of the theme of this conference we take hope: "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap..." for "God... Will render to every man according to his deeds: To them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life:" (Romans 2:6-11) May we search and find and love those things this year which will give us eternal life. } HAPPEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon Peace and gratitude—symbols of November! Never in all history have these two words been more significant. AMY BROWN LYMAN, President of the National Woman's Relief Society and internationally known social worker, states that her organization of approximately 100,- ooo women will make their chief activity the upbuilding and maintenance of well-regulated homes for all people. 'To do this, every effort will be put forth to provide and conserve every necessity—shelter, food, and clothing—for those in need during present and future emergencies. ELIZABETH BERGNER, Viennese star of the stage, is in America making her first picture, "Paris Calling." She is amused and confused over American slang and shocked to find her delicious wienerwursts called "hot dogs." INGRID BERGMAN, Swedish star, slipped unobtrusively into New York recently. Thinking she would like to witness her own portrayal of Anna Christy in "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," she stood in line with other patrons, bought her own ticket, and saw the play through without recognition. This is not quite the way of stars. JESSIE SCHOFIELD, director of recreation for Salt Lake City, has been made treasurer of the National Recreation Association for 1941-42. KATHERINE SIMMONS, of Munsing, Michigan, has been superintendent of municipal waterworks Page 774 for eleven years. She is believed to be the only woman in the nation to hold such a position. GERTRUDE BATTLES LANE, editor-in-chief of The Woman's Home Companion, died in late September. Miss Lane was one of the great women magazine editors. She edited The Woman's Home Companion for 29 years, beginning when she was eighteen years old at a salary of $18 a week. She never asked for a raise, but at the time of her death she was earning $52,000 a year. MARGARET LEECH in her brilliant new novel of Civil War times, Reveille in Washington, introduces many famous and wellknown figures. Other books of interest for fall reading written by women are: One Red Rose Forever, by Mildred Jordan; The Talk of the Town, by Ann Pinchot; I'll Sing One Song, by Willie Snow Ethridge; Christopher Strange, by Ruth Eleanor McKee—a story of early Califor. Nia; and a Death Valley story, The Shadow of the Arrow, by Margaret Long. EMILY TRAUB MERRILL, EIlen Watson Silver, Elizabeth Stanford Goddard, Elizabeth Guthtie Heywood, Mina Cannon Ellis, Rose Robison, and Mrs. Francis Kirkham, all outstanding Utah women beloved for their cultural and kindly qualities, died during the late fall. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - - Donna D. Sorensen - Vera W. Pohlman Anna S. Barlow ' Belle S. Spafford Vivien R McConkie Achsa E. Paxman eda T. Jensen Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - - President - First Counselor - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Leona F. Wintch Florence J. Madsen Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 

Vol. 28 NOVEMBER, 1941 No. 11 OD EDITORIAL ? Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Grant THE Relief Society General Board and approximately 100,000 Relief Society members extend to President Heber J. Grant their love and best wishes on his eighty-fifth birthday, to be observed November 22, 1941. President Grant's life is exemplary, his counsel wise, and the strength of his testimony is a source of inspiration to his people. His interest in the Relief Society is greatly appreciated by the women of the Church. From a Relief Society mother he learned the importance and value of this organization. Throughout the years the Society has benefited from the wisdom of his counsel, and his generous support of its many and varied activities has been a source of great encouragement. At our recent general conference the women of the Church were honored in receiving a personal message from President Grant, the full text of which appears on page 764 of this issue of the Magazine. His words, "Your efforts to enroll in your organization 100,000 members appeals to me," will no doubt be an important factor in helping us to realize our membership goal. We are grateful to President Grant for his many kindnesses to us and pray that his eighty-fifth birthday will find him the recipient of many good gifts and blessings. May his people honor him by heeding his word and obeying his counsel. Ee General Conference Message [XN a world topsy-turvey with bickerings, animosities, hatreds and raging wars, with thousands of people the world over wondering which course to pursue to promote their own best interests and the well-being of their fellow men, Latter-day Saints should indeed be grateful to be privileged to assemble in general conference and have their faith tenewed, their spirits lifted, and the path of right clearly defined. At the recent conference, our venerable President, Heber J. Grant, rich in experience, chosen of God to lead this Church, admonished us 35 Page 776 with his characteristic vigor to seek the Lord, to obey His laws and to keep His commandments. While expressing a tenderness toward those who are weak and erring, he called upon all to repent and to walk in the ways of righteousness. Individual righteousness was the plea of our revered President. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., focused our attention upon our responsibilities to our families. Decrying the lack of direction that many of our children are experiencing, he called upon parents to set their homes in order. Parents, he explained, are mature, experienced individuals; they know the ways of the world and the consequences of evil better than do their children. Children, he said, need and want ditection; they want to be told what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 they may do and what they may not do. Parents should unhesitatingly assume this responsibility. President David O. McKay saw in the present turmoil a need to eradicate hate in the world and to curb tempers. He called upon the Saints to meet this obligation to their fellow men. The message of the conference might be summarized as follows: Serve God and keep his commandments, look well to your own households, and seek the peace and wellbeing of your fellow men. This is not a new message. It is a message that Latter-day Saints have heard time and time again. It is a message given by Christ nearly 2,000 years ago, but that it is still sorely needed in today's troubled world none can dispute. Oscar A. Kirkham Named to Council of Seventy ELDER OSCAR A. KIRKHAM, executive director of the Y. M. M. I. A., was sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy at the closing session of the recent general conference of the Church, October 5, 1941. His appointment fills the vacancy made by the death of Elder Rulon S. Wells, senior president of the council. Brother Kirkham is a man of wide experience and unusual ability. His appoinment to the Council of Seventy brings to that organization a man of dynamic personality and great leadership strength. Brother Kirkham has particularly endeared himself to Relief Society women through his interest in the membership program and the coming centennial observance. His stirring address, "Together We Build," given at the Relief Society general conference, April, 1941, inspired Relief Society women with confidence and a determination to succeed in their membership campaign. His interest in the Society was further demonstrated when he asked for the privilege of being one of the first to donate to the proposed centennial monument to be erected on Temple Square. Brother Kirkham has served the Church efficiently and faithfully. His advancement to a position as one of the General Authorities of the Church is a merited honor. A biographical sketch will appear in a later issue of the Magazine. The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER EIGHT the stock in the huge hat bins and in the alterations room? Judith with a pencil and tablet; Alyn counting. "We'll have to order more of these 'Casuals,'" said Judith. "They go like hot cakes to the college trade. I want to get all this done." "That has been your battle cry for weeks," observed Alyn. "Truly, Judith, when are you going to slack u a? PWell, I'm about through; everything is in shipshape order. Lottie is so helpless about stock, and there are so many ways to lose money? overstocking, understocking, wrong buying. I'd like to do the next buying for her. 'That would tide her over until I get back. I'm afraid, however, that I can't. I've saved enough for this last month of rest, and I owe it to both myself and the baby. Besides, Ivy, in spite of Lottie's fears, is bursting for her chance to do the buying." "When is rest going to begin for you? John is worried about you. He says he has never heard of a woman working?drudging, he calls it?at a time like this. He'd like to call out the American Medical Association, or someone." "I know it isn't wise; Theo wouldn't have had it so. We had some savings, but oxygen, special nurses, and all the other expenses during Theo's illness.... Oh, I would gladly have spent ten 'times the amount," she added quickly, lest Alyn think A LYN and Judith were checking her begrudging of the care Theo had had. "T'll get by nicely; I'm going to finish the week out, no more. I have some last-minute shopping and a little sewing to do. Tell that nice John of yours not to worry. Goodness, many women work at housework tight up to the last day." It was not going to seem the same place without Judith. 'There would be no more of the chummy lunches, ducking out the back way and into Boone's dairy lunch where they had found a cozy booth. There would be no more talking excitedly over the newest book: "I think it ought- 'n't to end that way." "But it must, Judith. Psychologically that is the only way for it to end." "Oh, I suppose so, but I still like the good, oldfashioned happy endings, no matter how romantic and far-fetched they are." Poor Judith. It was, of course, because life had dealt with her as it had that she liked happy endings. Alyn was more relieved than she knew that Judith's rest was to begin soon. The girl had an ethereal look; the corners of her mouth and eyes moved in a way that betrayed a physical weakness that Judith would not have admitted, and the blue veins pulsed under the white skin of her neck. John asked daily about her. He would be relieved, too. S? absorbed in Judith's problems was Alyn that she thought less and less of ~ own. John and she seemed to get along better. He didn't irritate her so much, perhaps because their Page 777 common interest in Judith gave them a subject of conversation upon which they agreed. But sometimes Alyn woke in the night and lay thinking until her clenched hands broke out in perspiration, until an odd sensation came over her, as if she were rising, suspended in the air. At those times a feeling of futility swept over her to such a degree that it was almost unbearable. Time seemed to sweep in upon her, to rush by her. She felt that she and John were getting nowhere. Often she slipped out of bed, careful not to waken John, and paced back and forth noiselessly on the thick carpet, or went to the living room and sank herself in a deep chair, trying to read in the little pool of light that the lamp made. She tried, through sheer force of will, to stop thinking. "John," she said one night, "wake up. I can't bear it." "What is it, sweet?" John said, instantly awake. But when she went to tell him, the whole thing was gone; there were no words to express her feelings. Her problem was so intangible! John saw her difficulty and tried to draw her out. "Was it a nightmare, darling?" he asked in concern. "No. Not that." "Has Lottie..." "No. John, what is life for?" It was awful to be unsure about something that she ought to have settled for herself at least twenty years ago. "Birth, life, marriage, death?what do they all mean? Generation after generation this has gone on. It seems so endless, so futile." "There!" said John. "You have asked a question, honey, that wise men have asked since the beginning of time. Some find one answer, some another." At least there was comfort in the fact that John didn't think the question silly. "The Bible should give the answer," John's voice rumbled on, a little fuzzy from sleep. John had a nice voice, thought Alyn, remembering back. John's voice was the first introduction she had had to him. The Country Club dance, it had been, and crowded to the rafters. She had heard Bea McIntyre?Bea Benson then?was there with a new man, but Alyn hadn't seen him. "My dear, mining!" the small explanatory word had gone around. Then some of the younger generation had decided suddenly to leave the dance and go elsewhere, to a quaint farm someone had discovered, for chicken. It had seemed such a delicious, mad thing to do, with all the dowagers gossiping on the sidelines: "In my day girls didn't go unchaperoned." Of course, there weren't enough cars. Bea and her escort were already in their car, and Alyn was looking about for a place to sit when John had pulled her into the car beside him. In the badinage that followed, John had answered only her remarks. Bea had been furious, but it had done her no good. From that time on John had devoted himself entirely to Alyn. Throughout the years he had not changed. "But I have," thought Alyn. (To be continued) 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 5 CHAPTER 5, FarrH AND REPENTANCE Article 4?"'We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance;..." (Tuesday, February 3, 1942) I. Lesson Aim To understand that faith and repentance are universal principles of constructive daily living and not mere religious abstractions. II. Divisions of the Subject Matter. A. Faith. 1. A workable definition of faith. (Articles of Faith, pp. 96-100, 479) 2. The foundation of faith. (Articles of Faith, pp. 100-102) . Faith as a principle of power. (Articles of Faith,
pp. 102-106) 4. The place of faith in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, 106-107) 5. The relationship between faith and works. (Articles of Faith, pp.
107-108, 480-481) B. Repentance 1. The nature of repentance. (Articles of Faith,
pp. 109-112). The confession of sins. B A willingness to forgive others. C. Confidence in Christ?s atoning sacrifice. 2. The plan of repentance in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, pp. 113-116). III. Teaching Method The subject matter of this lessons lends itself to the use of ?panel discussion memthod.? A. Preparation The class leader should selectg four women to assist her in the presentation of this lesson. She should meet with them and make assignments of the lesson material to each as follows: 1. Topics 1 and 2, in lesson outline under Division II, Faith 2. Topics 3, 4 and 5, under Division II, Faith 3. Topic 1, under Division II, Repentance 4. Topic 2, under Division II, Repentance After these divisions have 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 been assigned, the class leader should impress upon each one the following factors: first, each must stay within the limits of the topic assigned, in order to avoid trespassing on the report of another; second, the textual material deals largely with religious abstractions, so each of the participants in the panel should, drawing upon personal experience, stress the application of the principles they discuss to the situations of daily life; third, no more than five minutes is to be used by each of the panel speakers. B. Presentation When the class period opens, the class leader should be seated in the front of the class, facing the class, with two speakers on each side of her. She should then introduce the members who are assisting her, the subject of the lesson, and the topics of the speakers. This should not occupy more than _ three minutes. Each speaker should then report the assigned topic, after which the class leader should make a summarizing statement of the reports. It is at this stage of the procedure that the class leader has the opportunity of stressing the objective of the lesson by a skillful application of the 'principles of faith and repentance to daily life situations. She should emphasize the point that whatever we achieve in life, whatever success is ours, whatever hope or joy in the Gospel we secure, results from our faith in life, in our fellow men and in God. In similar fashion, it is by the application of the principle of repentance that we make advancement in life. We improve and progress by correcting our errors and avoiding a tepetition of them. It is the application of these principles in the field of religion that brings joy to the hearts of human beings and leads them to salvation in the celestial kingdom. This need not occupy more than five minutes, but it must be well planned in advance. Following the presentation, the class leader should open the session for a discussion of the lesson, asking for questions from the class members. These questions should be referred. To the speakers of the panel, and the class leader should only answer them or make supplementary comments when the speakers themselves cannot give satisfactory answers. If there are not sufficient | questions from the class to occupy the remainder of the time before the testimony period begins, the class leader should present questions to the class members, making use of questions similar to LESSON DEPARTMENT those suggested at the end of this lesson. In conclusion, the class leader should express 'an appreciation for the part that these principles play in helping us to live progressively better in our quest for the abundant life. Such a positive summary should stimulate the class to a full participation in the testimony meeting that follows. Suggestive Questions 1. It has been said that there are four "R's" to repentance?recognition, remorse, resolution and restitution. What do you think of this suggestion? Show how each is a stage in a sincere forsaking of wrongdoing. 2. What is the meaning of the term "justification by faith alone'? Compare with the Latter-day Saint belief in "faith 781 and works." (Articles of Faith, pp. 479, So \ 4 What error of belief do you see in the doctrine of '"death-bed repentance"? 4. Relate instances that indicate how faith has been a power in your daily life. 5. Indicate some practical use of the principle of repentance that you have made in your home life. 6. What relationship can you see between faith and the bearing of a testimony? 7. Indicate the relationship that exists between the principle of repentance and the public bearing of a testimony. References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 5, pp. 96-119, 479-482. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 317-321, 395-396, 732-733- Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 116-118, 121-130. L. L. Bennion, The Religion of the Latter-day Saints, pp. 113-1109. Hebrews 11. $e Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 5 Attendance At Sacrament Meetings As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, February 3, 1942) THE ordinance of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is an extremely important one, since it ties up with the central fact in revealed religion?the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Lord gave this ordinance ""'by which Christ's life and mission, his death and _ resurrection, the great sacrifice he had offered for the redemption of man, should be kept in everlasting remembrance." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 255) Shortly before the Savior's death, he met with his disciples to observe the Feast of the Passover. Breaking bread, he blessed it and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body, which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me." Afterward He blessed some wine and gave it to them, with the words, "This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you." (Luke 22: 19, 20) After his resurrection, Jesus visited the American continent and in- 782 stituted the same ordinance among the Nephites. (III Nephi: 18) In our time, Joseph Smith received more specific instructions regarding the sacrament. Included in these instructions are the prayers to be offered, the authority to administer the ordinance, and the obligation assumed by those who partake of the emblems. All those who partake of the sacrament bear witness to the Lord (1) that they are willing to take upon themselves the name of Jesus Christ; (2) that they will always remember Him; (3) that they will keep His commandments. They do this that His spirit may always be with them. To partake of the sacrament worthily, one must rid his mind and soul of all hatred and ill will toward others. One should examine. Himself to see if he is living according to the teachings of the Gospel. It is beneficial to anyone to do this. In partaking of the sacrament, one renews his covenant to do the will of God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 The members of the Church attend Sacrament meeting primarily to partake of the sacrament and to worship; also "to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls." One does not go there to be entertained. It should not matter if the speaker be eloquent or not. The purpose of the meeting can be accomplished if one goes there with the right understanding and spirit. If one expresses his faith in the Lord by attending Sacrament meeting, striving to place himself in the proper condition of mind and heart, then among the blessings he may expect are a renewal of his faith, a sense of peace, fresh courage to meet life's problems, and a forgiving spirit?all of which will help him to live a happier and a better life. Discussion 1. What is the main purpose of the Sacrament meeting? 2. Why is it important that Latter-day Saints attend Sacrament meeting? 3. What would it mean to a person to always have the spirit of Jesus Christ with him? Oe Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 5 Ready-To-Wear Dresses And Coats (Tuesday, February 10, 1942) A SHIFT has taken place in the purchasing habits of American women as is shown by the fact that forty years ago the ready-made dress trade was negligible, and in 1931 there were placed on the market 167 million dresses. Today several thousand garments of one particular style are produced in various sizes and colors. Both sociological and economical factors are responsible for this shift in buying habits. Fashion LESSON DEPARTMENT has become a swaying influence. Also, the demands of activities in fields outside the home bring with them not only a lack of time for making one's own clothing, but also a lack of sewing skill. The dresses on the market represent a large range of values, styles, designs, and prices. This makes it necessary to keep in mind the following points when buying a dress: (1) Is the style and color in fashion? Does the garment suit the individual's need and figure? (2) Does it fit correctly or can alterations be made? (3) Is the workmanship durable and neat? (4) Is the quality of the fabric suited to the purpose of the dress? (5) Is the price equal to the value of the garment and will it fit into the budget? The length of service expected from a garment and the kind of wear it will receive should determine the style to be purchased and the quality of material and workmanship. We can afford to pay more for a dress that we expect to wear for work for two years than for an evening dress that will only be worn half a dozen times. Good quality dresses last longer, look better, and are more comfortable to wear. When the family budget provides for a large wardrobe, fashion may be the important consideration in the selection. When the budget limits expenditures for clothing, as it does in most cases, durability becomes more important. Yet no matter how beautiful the material and workmanship, if a garment is not cut along lines suited to the person wearing it, she is not becomingly dressed. Though the fabric and color are excellent, if a dress is out of date the wearer is not stylishly 783 dressed. If dresses must be worn a long time, it pays to lean toward conservatism in the choice of design, color, and materials. There are five size ranges in women's dresses: misses sizes?from 12 to 20; junior sizes?from 11 to 19; women sizes?from 36 to 44; half sizes?from 16 1/2 to 2614; and stout sizes?from 38 1/2 to 521 1/4. Misses sizes are adapted to the normal, mature figure of a young woman. Junior sizes are for the shorter, girlish figure with small bust and relatively larger hips. Women's sizes are adapted to the tall, mature woman with full hips, bust, and arms. Half sizes, or little women's sizes as they are sometimes called, fit the shorter woman and are relatively fuller in the hips. They are also shorter from shoulder to waist and fuller in the arms. Actually, this size range fits more women properly than does any other size range. Stout sizes fit the very tall, big woman with large bust and hips. In spite of the various size ranges just mentioned, one needs only to try on dresses to see that manufacturers place their own interpretations upon these sizes, and so when shopping a person will find garments of various sizes marked the same size. In the manufacture of garments, skimping is sometimes practiced in order to cut costs. Because of the variation in the size of garments marked the same size, it is necessary to try them on to be sure of fit. The purchaser should make sure that there is room enough for sitting, reaching, and bending. She should learn when alterations can be successfully made and when this cannot be done. She should demand that the dress carry informative labeling,. And should buy from stores that will replace defective merchandise and make good guaranteed items. It is only by complaints and consumer demands that retailers and manufacturers can be made to realize the type of merchandise. Consumers want and the type they will not tolerate. Consumers must assume a large responsibility for the kind of goods that is placed on the market. THE selection of coats involves the same problems as the selection of dresses, plus some others. 'The fabric of the coat, lining, and interlining must be considered. Napped fabrics may wear off. Tweeds, homespuns, and some weaves shed dust and wrinkles and maintain a tailored appearance. 'lhe "Virgin Wool" label is important to the coat buyer interested in quality and wear. Examine the wrong side of the material. Sleazy, loosely-woven materials will not wear well. Cotton mixed with wool will require more care and pressing. Lining materials receive harder wear than dress materials. Whether silk or rayon, they may be either good or poor quality. Weighted silk linings are a waste of money. Rayon linings that are guaranteed to wear the life of the garment are a good buy. The manufacturer would not be willing to make such a claim on inferior fabrics. For maximum warmth, interlinings should be of wool. However, cotton flannels also increase warmth. Weight in coats is not an index of warmth. The interlining should be cut with sufficient fullness to prevent binding, yet not cause bulging. It should be firmly joined to the outer part of the coat. Though good materials are found in a coat, if the cut is not right and the workmanship good, the coat will not hold its shape. In higher priced coats much of the construction is done by hand. With these factors as guideposts in the selection of ready-to-wear articles, it must be remembered that personal reactions need to be considered. It may be more important to the high school girl to have a larger number of less expensive dresses than one or two more expensive ones. This must be decided by the individual.. The thing that is important is that you get the best you can for the price you pay. Suggested Activities 1. Have women show samples of wellfitted and poorly-fitted dresses. 2. If possible, bring women's dresses which illustrate the various size ranges. 3. Analyze dresses, picking out points of quality. Discuss what should be expected from dresses purchased at the various price levels. 4. Discuss labels found on dresses and their value. 5. Bring coats or examine those already on hand to show what can be expected in coats purchased at various price levels. Compare fit, workmanship, material, and style. NVA 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 5 Some Humorous Characters (Tuesday, February 17, 1942) "Mark Twain for the last ten years of his life sat on a golden throne as a crowned King of Humor."?Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Humor of character Outstanding humorous characters in literature Review of Last Lesson In lesson four, the nature and purpose of satire were discussed. It was pointed out that the purpose of many of the greatest masterpieces of satire is to reform. In this connection, the work of the great Greek comedian Aristophanes was considered, emphasis being placed on his wish to call the attention of his fellow countrymen to the weaknesses and the vices which were destroying the glory of Greece. Others who wrote with the same purpose?that of reform?were mentioned: Shakespeare, Moliere, Chaucer, Swift, as well as some of the more recent essayists and playwrights. Humor arising from incongruous situations was discussed and illustrations were given from actual life and from literature. Humor of Character Just as humor growing out of situation is of a more advanced or intellectual type than that resting upon strange uses of words or unusual combinations of ideas and facts, so humor of character is higher than that of situation, A humorous character is one who has traits or characteristics?physical or mental? which do not logically go together. Again we come to the fundamental element in all humor, that of the incongruous. We expect a huge man to have a deep voice. If we hear an effeminate protest from a giant, we laugh. If a delicate woman exhibits strong masculine characteristics, again we are struck with the paradox. Aristophanes makes Dionysus (or Bacchus) a humorous character in The Frogs by representing him as small, "pot-bellied," and dressed in cheap grandeur. In addition to the ridiculousness of the physical appearance, he makes him cowardly compared to his slave, and at times with less sense and wit. These characteristics are out of keeping with the usual conception of a god. The modern drama, Amphitryon, popular recently on the New York stage, has the same type of humorous characters. We are amused to seek the Greek gods and godesses in the guise of everyday mortals, exhibiting ordinary human emotions and resorting to common-place trickeries to achieve their desires. Sometimes the humor of a character lies in his unusual manner of speech, his pet phrases repeated Page 785 786 over and over, or in some habit or attitude which the author emphasizes. In the play You Can't Take It With You, each character has some eccentricity which makes him humorous and adds to the humor of the situations in the play and to the humor of the satire the drama embodies; for example, there is the mother with her desire to be a writer simply because a typewriter had been left by mistake at the home, and the daughter with her passion for dancing whenever she moves. Josh Billings, Mr. Dooley,. The Autocrat, from The Autocrat of the. Breakfast Table, Uncle Remus, The Spectator, Sir Roger de Coverley are all humorous characters as well known to many readers as are real people. Mr. Dooley is the creation of Finley Peter Dunne, an Irish-American journalist of Chicago. Mr. Dooley was a great favorite of a generation back, a philosopher with an Irish brogue, who gave delight because. Of his humorous way of talking and the quaintness of his views. A few lines from "Mr. Dooley on the Philippines" will give an idea of his character. "I know what I'd do if I was Mack (McKinley)," said Mr. Hennessy. "I'd histe a flag over the Phillipeens an' I'd take in the whole lot iv thim." "An' yet," said Mr. Dooley, "It is not more thin two months since ye learned whether they were islands or canned goods.... Suppose ye was standin' at the corner iv State Street an' Archey R-road, wud ye ask to know what car to take to get to th' Philippeens? If yer son Packy was to ask ye where the Ph'lippeens is, cud ye give him any good idea whether they was in Rooshia or jus' west iv the thracks?... Wan iv the worst things about this here war is the way its makin' puzzles fr our poor tired heads." Josh Billings is the pseudonym him to establish himself RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 for Henry W. Shaw who lived from 1818 to 1885. His education was cut short in his sophomore year when he was expelled from Hamilton College for removing the clapper from the chapel bell. He wandered about the country for a number of years doing odd jobs, then he began to write "pieces" for newspapers. 'Through this activity he met Artemus Ward who helped "qn the world of funny men." He began giving humorous lectures, patterning both his publicity and his performances upon Ward's own technique. One of his favorite lectures was on "Skim Milk." He gave it hundreds of times. Among the group of humorous characters of the Mr. Dooley and Josh Billings type, so popular in America during the period of the Civil War, one was supreme. That was Artemus Ward, whose real name was Charles Farrar Browne (1834-1867). Mr. Browne did not create a fictitious character as Dunne and Shaw did, but retained his own identity. Critics say it is impossible to separate his work from his personality, for the two go together. Someone has said that "around his memory a loving world twined a garland of affection as for a lost child." That he was a favorite of Abraham Lincoln has already been mentioned, and reference has been made to one of his chapters which Lincoln read to his cabinet on the morning of September 22, 1862, before presenting to them the important Emancipation Proclamation. This incident illustrates the place of humorous literature in the lives of great men and the place of Ward as a humorous character. The LESSON DEPARTMENT chapter from the new book which Ward had sent the President was entitled "High-handed Outrage at Utica," from which a few lines have already been quoted in Lesson 2. Artemus Ward, with a method all his own, was tremendously successful as a platform entertainer. He not only traveled through the United States with his show, but went to Europe where he was given a triumphant reception. Great Humorous Characters of Literature The characters mentioned above in connection with the humor arising out of character are not all truly characters of literature. Most of them are the authors themselves more or less fictionized. But in the literature of the world, there are a number of great humorous characters with whom every person of education and culture should be acquainted, just as they should know the great romantic and tragic characters in literature. To know Ulysses, Achilles, Iphigenia, Media, Oedipus, Helen of Troy, Faust, Marguerite, Hamlet, Othello, Ophelia, Polonius, Desdemona, Lear, Kent, Cordelia, Portia, Shylock, Orlando, Jaques, Tartuffe, Adam Bede, Sidney Carton, Becky Sharp, and other characters that literature stands ready to present to you is like knowing a host of interesting people who enrich your lives, amuse you, and add happiness to your days. A few of the humorous characters, important to know, have already been mentioned?Gargantua, created by Rabelais; Falstaff, presented by Shakespeare; and some others. But they have companions who are equally worth knowing. Madame Malaprop 787 in Sheridan's delightful comedy, The Rivals, will always make you chuckle; just as Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair is the epitome of all scheming women, so Mrs. Malaprop is the embodiment of all those halfeducated, self-satisfied individuals who, in attempting to show off their superiority, make themselves ridiculous through their misuse of their mother tongue. She is famous for (quoting her own words) her "'oracular tongue and nice derangement of epitaphs." One of the characters in the play calls her "the old weather-beaten she-dragon whose ridiculous vanity makes her dress up her coarse features and deck her dull chat with hard words which she doesn't understand." To this indictment she cries: "There sir! An attack on my language... An aspersion upon my parts of speech.... If I reprehend anything in this world it is the use of my oracular tongue." She says her niece is as headstrong as "an allegory on the banks of the Nile." In commending a suitor to Lydia, she says, "He's so well bred... So full of alacrity and adulation... His phisogonmy so grammatical!" Excited that her plans are not working out, she exclaims, "Here's fine suicide, paracide, and salivation going on in the fields, and Sir Anthony not to be found to prevent the antistrophe." She tells Lydia that someone else can inform her of the "perindiculars." Another speech is, "Come, gitls, this gentlemen will exhort us; come, sir, you're our envoy?lead the way. We'll precede." One of her most humorous speeches is that in which she gives her views on the ideal education for a young girl. "I would by no means wish a daughter of mine to be a progeny of learning; I don't think so much learning becomes a young woman. For instance, I would never let her meddle with Greek or Hebrew, or algebra, or simony, or fluxions, or patadoxes, or such inflammatory branches of learning?neither would it be necessary for her to handle any of your mathematical, astronomical, diabolical instruments. But, Sir Anthony, I would send her, at nine years old, to a boarding school in order to learn a little ingenuity and artifice. Then, sir, she should have a supercilious knowledge in accounts;... And as she grew up, I would have her instructed in geometry, that she might know something of the contagious countries;... But above all, Sir Anthony, she should be mistress of orthodoxy, that she might not misspell and mispronounce words so shamefully as girls usually do; and likewise that she might reprehend the true meaning of what she is saying.... This, Sir Anthony, is what I would have a woman know...?." To be fully appreciated, any of the great characters in literature must be seen through the entire novel or play which presents them. We can only know Ruggles by reading Harry Leon Wilson's Ruggles of Red Gap (or seeing the movie based on it). We can only know how funny Mr. Jeeves is by following him entirely through the situations E. P. Wodehouse has invented for him. The same is true of Falstaff, Mr. Pickwick, Don Quixote, Monsieur Jourdain, Tartarin; in fact, any of the humorous characters it would delight us to know. Only a few points can be given here in the hope that a fuller acquaintance will be made with them later. Mr. Pickwick has been mentioned before; space will allow little more to be said of him. One critic points out that by comsummate art, Dickens sends Pickwick walking through life conveying with him the contrast between life as it might be and life as it is. Through his humor as well as his pathos, Dickens did much to remove the injustices and cruelties of his day by bringing about more humane legislation. He wrote with intense social purpose in all of his novels. The humor in the character of Pickwick lies largely in the incongruities of his character. He thinks he is a great scientist in his discoveries and in his manner of writing up his observations. But there is only emptiness back of his pomp of scholarship. Then, too, his solemn manner in all that. He does is out of keeping with his appearance. He maintains this manner always, even when he puts his hat over his nightcap and bows himself ceremoniously out of Miss Witherfield's room, which he had entered by mistake and where he had gone to bed. Likewise, when he is giving Mr. Magnus detailed procedure on how to propose, his solemnity and dignity help to make what he does laughable. Pickwick's character grows through the various adventures he encounters. Mr. Leacock says that at first he is almost a burlesque figure. "Then as his amiability leads him to misadventure after misadventure he becomes stronger and more real, until he finally shows great strength, but is none the less humorous when he goes to jail rather than marry Mrs. Bardall. Through all the unfolding of his character there is a warm glow of human kindness. It is the ability to incorporate this quality into his humor which makes Dickens one of the greatest comic writers of the world." "Dickens did with laughter and 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT smiles what other social reformers attempt to do with denunciation." Tartarin in Daudet's Tartarin of Tarascon is another high ranking humorous character. He is very much like the people of Dickens, though different from any one but himself. He is a giant in physique and physical strength. In fact, he is such a glorious specimen of perfect physical manhood that this goes to his head. The basis of the humor in his case is the contrast between his strong appearance and his veritable weakness?his delusion of greatness on one hand, and his innate cowardice on the other. Daudet seems to be satirizing in this story the tendency of the people of southern France in the nineteenth century to lie and exaggerate and bluff; to live in a world of makebelieve instead of a world of reality. Stephen Leacock says that the Tartarin people live on delusions of' grandeur. They live among grapes and flowers in a sort of permanent armistice night. Don Quixote, another of our amusing galaxy, is a reflector of an attitude in Spain following the days of chivalry. Cervantes is protesting in his novel against the persistence of literature to glorify a social system which has served its purpose, degenerated, and passed. This novel provides another example of the power of humor as a social force. It has been said that this book helped "to return to sanity the mind of a continent still a little delirious." The hero, Don Quixote, has read so much about knightly conduct toward maidens in distress, and about the stirring adventures of knights who sought to free the world from sin, that his head becomes a little 789 turned. He decides to set off on a pilgrimage to right wrong. He is a grotesque figure, long, lean and sallow, on a rake of a horse, dressed in queer garb, and accompanied by Sancho Panza, his "comic relief," rotund and practical. He chooses for his lady an inn keeper, as grotesque as he himself. Cervantes makes this romance ridiculous by showing how poor a figure chivalry cuts when dragged into the light. The two main characters act as a foil to each other. Don Quixote is all idealism and dreams; Sancho is all earthly reality. Idealism should never falter, but it needs reality to keep its feet on the ground. The humor lies both in the incongruities of the characters and in the ridiculous adventures they encounter. Don fights with windmills, thinking they are giants; he mistakes two herds of sheep for armies ready for battle. He frees criminals about to be punished only to have them turn savagely upon him. The second part of the book leaves the burlesque of the first and shows development in the characters, who are, however, fundamentally the same. Don still tries to carry out his great purpose and still fails, as we see in his encounter with the lion and in his episode with the puppet show. When he spoils a perfectly good puppet show, he awakens to a sense of disillusionment. Though the novel is a comedy of character and situation, it is a tragedy of disillusionment?like the tragedies in the lives of people who fight for lost causes and awaken to a realization of their futility. The great value of the book, transcending its fine humor, is the nobility 790 shown in the way Don Quixote lives and dies. In both he is the pattern of the perfect gentleman, as he sees it. He meets his disillusionment with the same courage that he meets the imagined giants. He is true to his ideals. Also he is helped by his association with the practical Sancho, just as Sancho, though he can never understand Don, is ennobled by his idealism. Among the world's known and accepted characters of humor, Huckleberry Finn has been designated as the smallest, humblest, and yet the greatest. Mark Twain is one of the best known, throughout the world, of all American men of letters. Opie Read says, "Other humorists may be a chuckle, but he is a ha ha. He is a burst of mirth, a compeller of merriment, an explosive of dignity." The general opinion is that Huckleberry Finn is far superior to any other of Mark Twain's books. It seems, admirers of the author say, to have written itself. He threw the manuscript aside for a long time, but later salvaged it and gave us "the highwater reach in humor." Stephen Leacock claims that this book elevates humor beyond the comic and the accidental "to that high reach in which our human lot itself invites at once our tears and our smiles." Huckleberry Finn was published in 1884 and ever since has been regarded as one of the world's books. Mark Twain had long dreamed of writing the story of an outcast boy whom he would send floating down the Mississippi on a raft with a negro companion. Part of his purpose was to write something that would give him a chance to paint the glory of the river. But he wanted also to write a story in which the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 world could be seen through humble characters. And he succeeded in both purposes. There is a vastness to his background. There is the incongtuity of life in the contrast between the unsullied soul of little Huck, and his rage and chewing tobacco. He and his companions give us types of humor from the lowest to the highest "when tears are mingled with laughter, when the ridiculous merges into the sublime." Problems and Projects 1. Illustrate the difference between humor of situation and humor of character, and point out how humor is enhanced when the two are combined. 2, Discuss the nature of the humor in the "Sir Roger de Coverley Papers." Read excerpts to illustrate. 3. Compare some of the humorous essays of Addison, Steele, or other early writers with modern humorous essays. Which do you enjoy most? Why? 4. Read books presenting at least two of the humorous characters of literature discussed in the lesson to get a fuller acquaintance with them, then determine which type gives you the greatest pleasure and the reasons why. Present your report to the class. 5- Do you know people like any of the humorous characters discussed? What of practical value to yourself can you learn from such real or created characters? Supplementary Readings Shakespeare, Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor. Sheridan, The Rivals. L Dickens, Pickwick Papers: Moliere, Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme. Cervantes, Don Quixote. Mark Twain, Huckleberry Finn. Guide To Pronunciation Moliere (Mal y?r') Iphigenia (if? Ij u ni' t) Patruchio (patru' kio) Tartuffe (Tar toof', tar' tiffe') Jaques (ja' kw?z - kwiz) LESSON DEPARTMENT Gargantua (gar gan' tii u) Cervantes (sur van' tus) Don Quixote (d6n' kwik' sut, | d?n' k? ho ta) 791 Rabelais (rab' u 14, ra bu 14') Achilles (A kil' l?z) Medea (m? d?' u) Oedipus (?d' i pus, ?d' i pis) The Deseret Book Company has reported that its special edition of The Greatest Pages of American Humor, by Leacock, is exhausted and will not be reprinted. +h Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 4 The Start And The Art Of Marriage (Tuesday, February 24, 1942) Lesson Aim: To emphasize the importance of a good start in marriage, and to show that the art of successful marriage hinges to a large degree upon the attitudes of its participants. THE start of any race has a lot to do with its outcome, and life's race is no exception. The intricacies and difficulties of modern living are many, and he who gets off on the wrong foot or makes a poor start will find himself severely handicapped all the way through. Who, When, and How to Marry Marriage commences with a definite ceremony, performed at a given time, and in conjunction with a chosen companion. The start of marriage for anyone involves these three things: another person, a time selected, and a ceremony performed; and if any one of these is not wisely decided upon, the marriage itself will likely get off to a bad start. We will not say more about the choice of a companion than has already been said in previous lessons, except to reemphasize the importance of rational judgment and serious consideration of such factors as chastity, dependability, health, disposition, industriousness, similar backgrounds and interests, et cetera. If one has used his head during courtship, and has chosen his mate intelligently as well as emotionally, that is the one he should marry But the time of marriage should receive careful consideration as well. The time of year is of little or no importance, to be sure, but the time of marriage in relation to the ages and the preparation of the bride and groom is very important. Personalities and situations vary so greatly, however, that even here it is difficult to lay down any rules. It is known, for example, that marriages are usually more successful if husband and wife are about the same age, or if the husband is a few years older. Matches in which the wife is older than the husband, or in which the husband is considerably older than the wife are not usually good marriage risks. But even so, there are cases in which this rule is broken, and happiness found in spite of it. It is also known that to delay marriage much beyond the time of biological 792 maturity and psychological preparedness is to put rather serious: strain upon the persons involved, and to decrease the chances of marriage in the first place, and successful adjustment in marriage where it is consummated. Marriage at a reasonably young age is desirable from a number of points of view. But here there are many exceptions, for young marriage may also mean hasty marriage based upon immature judgment. Furthermore, it may mean' lack of economic preparation; the young man of today should not hope to win his fortune before getting married, but certainly he should have something lined up in the way of a job or specific training for a job. The average ages for first marriages in this country for 1930 were 25.6 for males and 22.4 for females. We cannot say, of course, that these are the ideal ages for marriages, for many people have been successful in marriage who have deviated considerably from this average. What we can say is that the ideal age for marriage will depend to a very large extent upon the particular couple involved and the peculiar circumstances governing them. It is impossible to describe the ideal age in terms of years. The best time for marriage is when the persons involved are prepared?biologically, psychologically, economically, and socially. And where all of these conditions cannot be completely satisfied, the best time is when the most satisfactory balance can be found among them. The nature of the marriage ceremony is also of extreme importance. In this connection, we are safe in saying that church marriage, and especially temple marriage as LatterRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 day Saints know it, is much more likely to succeed than is the marriage which lacks the sobering and spiritualizing influence of religion. Burgess and Cottrell in their study of 526 couples, as already indicated in an earlier lesson, found that religion in the home, church attendance, and church marriage, were all associated with successful marriage and family life." In other words, religion is able to make the marriage contract sacred, and in this way cement and vitalize its relationships. The sanctification of marriage through the church makes it mean more to those who enter, makes them more firmly resolve that -it shall not fail. And there is no sanctification so deep and profound as temple marriage. Parents can do much to spiritualize the marriage preparation of their children. Home atmosphere is quite normally transplanted into the hearts of the children, and if this atmosphere is one of reverence and prayer over matters of courtship and marriage the children will naturally have a better chance than if it is not. Mothers especially can impress their children with the sacredness of the marriage covenant and the importance of entering into it with the right attitude and with a partner well chosen. Children should be guided during courtship, both as to conduct and as to their choice of associates. They should be helped to realize that courtship is a stepping stone to a greater adventure, and that if one's affections are given to someone who is unworthy, eternal marriage will Ernest W. Burgess and Leonard S. Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, pp, 357-359. LESSON DEPARTMENT not be possible and the deeper lasting joys of life will be blotted out. The eyes of the children should be turned toward the temple; to accomplish this, the attention and the inspiration of parents seems necessary. If one has chosen a good companion, married at an appropriate time in life, and married under the sanctifying influence of the Church, he has made a good start. The "who," and the "when," and the "how" of marriage are important. Early Adjustment in Marriage Life is a series of adjustments, and the event of marriage is simply one episode in this series. But it is an extremely important episode, for upon its success depends the happiness of not only the married partners themselves, but of children and grandchildren to come. If one has adjusted satisfactorily to the problems of childhood and youth before marriage, he is well on his way to successful adjustment in marriage, although he has no guarantee of such success. Marriage is a continuous process of adjustment; the start ls important to be sure, but the power and the will to carry through are even more important. Successful marriage is a process, not an achievement. Even so, the early months and years of married life are usually loaded rather heavily with problems which need adjustment. To those who have come into marriage somewhat unprepared and heavily freighted with romantic ideas unsupported by stern reality, the period is one of painful disillusionment. Their mistake has been the so-called "romantic fallacy" discussed in the pre- 793 vious lesson. 'To some, adjustment is relatively easy because of the foundations they have laid beforehand; to others, it is hard for the same reason; but to all, regardless of preparation or attitude, the start of marriage presents its difficulties. This is so because marriage requires such a great change in the lives of those who enter it; in one sense marriage is a major life crisis. The more or less highly emotionalized associations of courtship must make room for more practical considerations; couples must "come down to earth," so to speak, and learn to face things a little more realistically. Furthermore, the young married couple must learn to cooperate and get along with each other on a much more continuous and intimate basis than formerly, and this for anyone means adjustment. Much of the success or failure of marriage depends upon the success or failure of this early period; the stresses and strains of these first adjustments between husband and wife may either be the birth pains of a deepening love or the death pains of an immature infatuation. It is important to realize also that conflicts between husband and wife are very likely much more common today than ever before, and that marital adjustments are therefore much more difficult. Social changes have disturbed the traditional roles which men and women have played in the marriage relationship, and new roles have not yet been thoroughly established. It used to be that husband and wife upon entering marriage knew fairly well what society expected of them, and therefore what their role was to be in respect to each other. But this is 794 not so today; the emancipation of woman has disturbed all of this, and as a result, the early part of marriage is usually a period in which husband and wife maneuver and struggle for positions of advantage and control. This maneuvering, although a necessary part of the adjustment, is bound to lead into conflicts of one sort or another. Realizing this, parents and friends will do well to show a normal interest in the lives of the couple, but at the same time to avoid all interference. Needless to say, whenever possible the young married couple should live by themselves rather than with their parents. "What about the honeymoon?" many people ask. The purpose of the honeymoon is to permit the first adjustments of marriage to take place in a restful atmosphere and in isolation from all interference. When this purpose is realized, the honeymoon is a good thing; but too often it is not realized. 'Too often the honeymoon trip is expensive and fatiguing, and is therefore a hinderance to successful adjustment rather than a help. A long, hurried, or expensive trip isn't necessary. Very often the conditions favorable to successful adjustment can better be obtained right at home. Many young people today are wisely delaying their honeymoon until after they have been married, for a year or so. The advent of a child into the family is an experience that requires adjustment on the part of husband and wife. They must now make way for a new personality in their hearts and in their lives, and they must plan together for its welfare. The first child is an entirely new experience, and it therefore usually requires RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 more in the way of parental adjustment than do later children. The birth of each new child into a family, however, demands adjustment on the part of all former members. We want to emphasize and reemphasize that although early adjustments are likely the most important, the need for adjustment is continuous. The Art of Mutual Enrichment Success in marriage depends so much upon the attitude of those who understake the adventure that we make no apology in referring to the point frequently throughout this series of lessons. Attitude is the key to maturing and enduring love. He who enters the marriage gates unselfishly and with a determination, to succeed is the one who will succeed. Successful marriage is an art; and an artist is one who feels, one whose soul is set in tune with the infinite. The art of successful marriage is the art of mutual enrichment, growing out of genuine love and devotion. The selfish and the selfcentered are seldom able to make others happy, and as a result are seldom truly happy themselves. Happiness is something that must be shared in order to be realized, and happiness sharing is the art that makes marriage successful. We have already defined love as something more than either physical attraction or emotional involvement. True and enduring love involves the physical and the emotional, to be sure, but it is something more?it is the spiritual and intellectual companionship that grows out of years of sacrificing and working together. True love is that which LESSON DEPARTMENT makes a person put the welfare of someone else above his own; it makes him happy and anxious to share his happiness; it is mutually enriching. But the sad thing is that very often sentimentality is mistaken for genuine love?even in _ marriage. Sentiment has become so commercialized and the modes of expressing it have become so_ standardized around various holidays and special occasions that it is really difficult at times to distinguish true love from its shell. Anniversaries are likely a good thing, but the wife or husband who becomes personally insulted when forgotten and who makes it a matter of marital conflict, is not the wife or husband who is really in love. True love runs deep, and it feeds on mutual understanding and respect rather than sentimental superficialities.; Another factor in the mutual enrichment of married partners is the division of labor and responsibilities. Too often, in this modern day, young women show a dislike for housework and an unwillingness to accept the responsibilities of mothethood. They are career minded, but they apparently fail to realize that homemaking is the greatest career that woman can have. The growing equality between men and women has made too many women feel that to be equal with men they must be like men. Too often we train our young people before marriage to compete with each other, and then after marriage we expect them to cooperate. But equality doesn't mean identity; women can be equal with men and still be unlike them. The biological roles of men and women are necessarily 795 different, and so why shouldn't the social roles be also. Women who are the most womanly and men who are the most manly are the men and women who are best able to successfully play their roles in marriage to the satisfaction and mutual enrichment of all. Chart for Happiness Professor Hornell Hart of Duke University has recently published a study dealing with the measurement of human happiness, and since the theme of our lessons all along has been the attainment of happiness in marriage, it may be well to conclude the present one by giving reference to his book. Mr. Hart's purpose in making this study was to discover the general areas of human happiness and the various factors associated with it, so that individuals can be helped to better understand themselves and thereby improve the happiness of their own lives. By use of a scale, called a Euphorimeter, he was able to get an approximate measure of the relative happiness ratings of various groups of people under various conditions. He found that the major fields, or areas, in which happiness or unhappiness are experienced are: play life, work life, love life, and home life. He found also that the following general factors are conducive to happiness in any field: (1) health and vitality; (2) attitudes of courage and enthusiam toward the difficulties one encounters; (3) attitudes of friendliness and comtadeship toward other human beings as shown through religion and the spirit of unselfishness. It is inter- *Hornell Hart, Chart for Happiness, Macmillan, N. Y., 1940. 796 esting to note the great stress placed upon attitude. In regard to happiness as it relates more specifically to marriage, he found the following scores for groups with differing marital statuses (a score of plus 100 is considered average):" Married people who have not comtemplated divorce or separation 213 Young persons engaged to be married 173 Unmarried persons 17. To 35 years old, never yet engaged 75 Young persons with broken and unreplaced engagements 62 Married persons who are on the verge It is evident from the above that happiness is very definitely associated with marriage. But it is also evident that it is associated with only that kind of marriage that is successful. Marriage may result in either the highest happiness or the deepest misery that is possible for men and women to experience, and both the start and the art of this great adventure have a lot to do with its outcome.. Problems arid Projects 1. Why is the start of marriage so important to its success? Show the relationship of the following to successful marriage, and indicate the conditions of each that you think are best for a good start: a) Choice of a marriage partner b) Age, and age differences between mates at marriage c) Financial preparation for marriage d) Kind of marriage ceremony (i. e., temple or otherwise) e) The honeymoon f) The place of residence after marriage. What do you understand by the art of successful marriage? In what way is attitude tied up with it? What is true *Ibid. P. 33. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 love? How does it lead to mutual enrichment? Do you agree that true love is often smothered by too much emphasis on commercialized expressions of sentiment on holidays, anniversaries and the like? Why, or why not? 3. What effect does the growing equality between men and women have upon the difficulties of early adjustment in marriage? "What effect does it have upon the problem of mutual enrichment between husband and wife? Do you agree that men and women can be different and still be equal? How? Do you agree that woman's greatest career is homemaking? Why? 4. What did Professor Hornell Hart find to be associated with happiness in life? What do you think can be done then by unhappy people to improve their happiness level? Why do you think married people who have not contemplated divorce are more happy than single people? Why do you think martied people who have contemplated divorce are less happy than single people? What does this mean in terms of successful marriage? References Anonymous, "Waring to Wives," Reader's Digest, November, 1936, pp. 13-16. Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1939, pp. 201- 276, 355-437. Bigelow, William Frederick, Good Housekeeping Marriage Book, PrenticeHall Inc., New York, 1938, pp. 43-65, 97-110, 126-140; passim, Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harper and Brothers, New York, SEE 12 Sigg a Burkhart, Roy A., Thinking About Marriage, Association Press, New York, 1934, pp. 68-74, 115-135. Comstock, S. And Howe, H. S., "Can't I Save My Marriage?" Good Housekeeping, January, 1935, pp. 26-27. Crowder, Farnsworth, "How to Stay Married," Reader's Digest, April, 1936, pp. 8-10. Folsom, J. K., Plan For Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1938, pp. 29-46, 196- 216. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, New York, of divorce -160 LESSON DEPARTMENT Henry Holt, 1933, pp. 118-132, 172-190, 254-288, 312-333. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., Boston, New York, 1935, pp. 108-109, 143-145, 159- 170, 203-228. Jepson, Helen, "Love Came My Way," Good Housekeeping, December 1936, pp. 36-37. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., New York, 1940, pp. 52-98. Kirkpatrick, C., "Factors in Marital Adjustment," American Journal of Sociology, September, 1937, pp. 270-283. McDermott, N. T., "Adjustments in Marriage," Hygeia, December, 1939, pp. 1078-1081. Muret, Charlotte, "Marriage as a Ca- 797 reer," Reader's Digest, September, 1936, PP 59: Palmer, G., "Why Marriages Go Wrong," Good Housekeeping, November 1939, PP- 34?5- Rubenstein, H. S., "Mates or Mismates? '?A Message to Those Married," Hygeia, December, 1937, pp. 1082-1083. Shultz, G. D., "What's Wrong With Marriage?" Ladies Home Journal, October 1939, Pp. 18-19. Waller, Willard, The Family: A Dynamic Interpretation, 'The Cordon Co., New York, 1938, Part 3, pp. 305-453. Whiteman, Mrs. Paul, "(How to Be a Swell Wife," Good Housekeeping, July, 1937, PP- 24?25. Widtsoe, John A. "Woman's Greatest Career," The Improvement Era, October, 1940, pp. 586-587; 634-639. INlisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 5 (Tuesday, February 17, 1942) WE THANK THEE, O GOD, FOR A PROPHET We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing. Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, And love to obey Thy command. When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us And threaten our peace to destroy, There is hope smiling brightly before us, And we know that deliv'rance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord, nor His goodness, We've proved Him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion Will surely be smitten at last. 798 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 We'll sing of His goodness and mercy, We'll praise Him by day and by night, Rejoice in His glorious Gospel, And bask in its life-giving light; Then on to eternal perfection The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message Shall never such happiness know. ?William Fowler. WHENEVER we receive an ordinance in religion, for instance, baptism, the laying on of hands in sickness, the conferring of the Holy Ghost, or the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, we do so in connection with an organization. That organization is known as the Church. But in order to perform a religious ordinance, one must have the authority to do so. This authority in the Church of Christ is called Priesthood. In our Church this Priesthood came to Joseph Smith through an ordination by the ancient apostles, Peter, James, and John, who had been resurrected from the dead. All revelations for the Church as a whole are received by its President, who is known as "a prophet, seer, and revelator." Of course, any individual member of the Church may receive revelations for his own guidance, but not for the Church. It was this prophet and seer that William Fowler had in mind when he wrote this hymn. Whether it was Joseph Smith, the first prophet, we do not know; at any rate, when we sing it we think not only of Joseph Smith, but of whoever may be the head of the Church at the time. THE poem, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," was written by William Fowler, who was born May 9g, 1830, in Australia, where his family had gone to live temporarily. (His father, John Fowler, was in the army, and he had gone to Australia from Ireland and to Ireland from Sheffield, England.) William's mother, until she joined the Methodists with her husband, was a Roman Catholic. But William seems to have looked upon Methodism as "all hope and trust, no reality." At eighteen, William joined the Mormon Church. A young friend of his, whose father was a priest in the Church, took him to meeting. This was in the winter of 1848. William was impressed and was soon baptized. Later he was ordained a priest, whereupon he began to preach his new-found faith. By this time, however, the family had returned to Sheffield, England. _ Says George D. Pyper, in his Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns: "The daily diary of William Fowler, containing a record of four years of missionary service up to 1854, has been perused by the writer and is of intense interest. It shows the deep and abiding faith of the man in the Restored Gospel: how he traveled on foot and endured revilings and all sorts of persecutions for the Gospel's sake. It is full of such entries as 'walked 21 miles rode 7 today.' One of March 27, 1853, reads: Mob assembled and broke up the afternoon meeting. In the evening we met at Brother Craig's house and LESSON DEPARTMENT had a good meeting. The mob assembled outside expecting to pelt us with goose eggs, but as we did not open the door they did not know where to look for us, so they pelted each other.' " It is significant that William Fowler studied and taught music. He also learned the Pitman system of shorthand. According to his diary, he was given his first book in shorthand by the author of the system, Sir Isaac Pitman. "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet" was not the only poem written by Brother Fowler. Others were printed in the Millennial Star. We never hear of them now, however. He came to America in 1863, and settled in Manti, where he taught school and where he died two years later, at the age of thirtyfive. A monument, erected by the Church, marks his grave in the Manti cemetery. 'Three children survived him, one son and two daughters. His name will always be remembered with gratitude by hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints in all parts of the world. HIS poem was composed, most probably, between 1860 and 1862. There is no evidence to show the exact date. According to the late President Joseph F. Smith, it was first sung at a religious meeting, to which it had been brought by Broth- -er Fowler. "It was published in the 12th edition (1863) of the Latterday Saint Hymn Book." That quotation is from Superintendent Pyper's book. So is this one: "It cannot be called the greatest hymn ever written by any of our authors. In fact, it does not compare in literary merit or poetic beauty with many of the other gems contained in our 799 hymn books, but it has something different from our other hymns." This "something different" lies in its praise to God for a man through whom we obtain divine guidance, rather than direct adoration to one of the Divine Trinity, or Godhead, as do most Christian hymns. HE first stanza has four separate phases of gratitude: first, thanks are given for a specific thing?that God has sent us a man "'to guide us in these latter days"; second, gratitude is expressed for the restoration of the Gospel; third, gratitude is expressed for "every blessing bestowed by" the bounteous hand of the Lord; fourth, "We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, and love to obey Thy command." No: doubt, if the meter would permit, the word "joy" would have been used by the poet instead of "pleasure," since it is a much stronger word. But it expresses an idea that ought to be dwelt upon here. Many people go through the forms of religion without much thought. 'They worship?if the word "worship" may be used in this connection?in the most formal, unreflecting way. They sing languidly; they listen to the words, but not the thought of the prayer; they hear only words in the sermon. That would not satisfy the poet who wrote this hymn. He would demand that we listen with the heart, not merely with the ear. He would require that we take "pleasure" in worshipping, in observing the commandments of God. What goes on should mean something to us. In the second stanza we strike a hopeful note. No matter what "dark clouds of trouble" may hang over us, we see through them a gleam of "hope smiling brightly before us." Trouble is apt to drive us to despair, unless we are buoyed up by religion, by faith, by the Spirit. Under such conditions, we do not "doubt the Lord, nor His goodness." 'This is true because "we have proved [tested] Him in days that are past." Was the poet thinking of his own trials, when mobs were at the door of the house where the Saints had met to worship God? Perhaps so. In any event, his experience is the experience of thousands of other Latterday Saints, and so the hymn is full of meaning to them, too. The po?t gives a thought to the "wicked" also; they shall be "smitten at last." Perhaps there is no feeling of revenge here, but only the statement of a fact. The last stanza goes back to the first. It is an expression of praise and thanksgiving. We'll "sing" and "praise" and "rejoice" and "bask in light." 'Thus we get the maximum of "pleasure" in serving God. The result of all this is that "the honest and faithful" will go on "to eternal perfection," by which the poet means "eternal. Progression." Such are the blessings derived from obedience to the Gospel, but no one can properly, expect to reap this reward who "rejects this glad message" ?which is only natural. They "shall never such happiness know." Questions 1. Who wrote this hymn? Where and when was he born? Under what circumstances did he join the Church? Tell about his four-year mission and the opposition he met with. Why should a man like William Fowler be persecuted by anyone? 2. What kind of man was William Fowler, judging by this hymn? Can you detect any reference in it to the events in his own life? If so, what? What was his attitude. Toward religion, judging by this poem? Pick out some words or phrases that show this attitude. 3. About when was this hymn written? Where was Brother Fowler living at this time? When did he emigrate? Where to? What did he do there? 4. Which prophet was meant in the hymn? What do we get as as result, of the work of our prophets? What should be our attitude toward them in consequence? What is meant by going on to "perfection"? How does a person become perfect? ROOTED IN FAITH Jasmine R. Edmunds Singly, like a cypress standing high, High and lone beneath a lowering sky, Firmly rooted in the rock am I. Twisted, scarred, the giant tree is old; Over him for ages storms have rolled With angry thunder, vivid lightning scrolled. Mighty yet, his valiant head is high; The elements he dares defy. So, rooted deep in faith stand I! 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1941 WHOM CAN YOU TRUST: OCTORS do not sell medicine; they do not profit by the sale of what they prescribe. Their advice is impartial; you can trust it. Hearing aid dealers sell hearing aids; they profit by the sale. They are naturally anxious fo have you buy. You can trust their advice only as far as you can trust them. Erest compels us therefore to select ~ Confidence makes friends, and frien acs Otarion will be in business a long time; it canno e friends for the sake of quick profits. That is why the Otarion organization has been so carefully picked. You can trust your Otarion dealer. In a personal letter to a prospect Denison B. Hull, President of Otarion, Inc., says: "OF course | am anxious to have Mr. Brown sell you a hearing aid, butlama great deal more anxious to have you satisfied that Mr. Brown is offering you the best hearing aid you could have. You have bought hearing aids long enough so that words don't mean much, and a smoke screen of high pressure sales talk is nothing but a nuisance. I've bought them long enough myself to feel the same way. I have done my best to see that nobody in our organization will be of the high pressure type.? You can?t beat a good product sold by honest able men. AMERICAN Medical AASSM council on physical therapy. You can't beat a good product sold by honest able men. Service to the the hard of hearing Otarion Write for the Interesting Stoy of Otarion Otarion of Salt Lake Donald G. Lyman Dial 5-4036 Salt Lake City, Utah 511 McIntyre Bldg. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE?BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING Salt LAKE City UTAH HEBER J GRANT President 