ONE of the most significant circumstances in connection with the settling and development of the Intermountain West was the close relationship which the early settlers bore to the arts. Those pioneers of the printed word left a heritage which it is our aspiration to place in this noble power to aspire to elaborate service we render our clients. Book, printed, your requirements will
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS OF THE WEST
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
VOL. 28, NO. 8 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER AUGUST, 1941
costs so LITTLE DOES SO MUCH!
UTAH POWER & LIGHT
BRIGHAM YOUNG knew the Value and Importance of GOOD BREAD
That's why he asked the Relief Society to store grain
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it!
Thorough business training will help you to succeed—and this is the right school for that training.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
(Just mail us a card for information)
The BIG WHITE LOAF of
Fishers BETTER BREAD is Fully ENRICHED With Vitamins and Iron
Index to Advertisers
Deseret Book Company
Fisher Baking Company
L. D. S. Business College Fly-leaf
Larkin Mortuaries Inside Back Cover
Utah Power & Light Co Fly-leaf
Outside Back Cover
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Inside Back Cover
Fly-leaf
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 AUGUST, 1941 No. 8
Contents
Special Features
The Cover—Great Salt Lake—T. J. Howells, M. D. Inside Front Cover
Back of Frontispiece—Relief Society Pioneer Day Float 509
Frontispiece—Relief Society Pioneer Day Float 510
Aunt Em and the Gathering of the Wheat Rosannah C, Irvine 511
A Chinese Mother Elsie Young 515
Priscilla Livingston Evans John Henry Evans 518
"Song Passes Not Away" Carlton Culmsee 521
Home Accident Prevention 531
The Show Is On!—Anna Prince Redd 532
Fiction
A Pinch of Dust is a Dollar Martha Robeson Wright 525
The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Five Alice Morrey Bailey 544
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 538
Editorial:
Friendliness in Church Gatherings 539
Death of Sarah M. McLelland 541
Notes to the Field:
Cooperation Urged in Campaign for Non-use of Liquor and Tobacco 542
Some Literary Friends—No. IX ("Character Education'') Florence Ivins Hyde 550
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 554
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chap. 2 564
Visiting Teacher—Prayer as an Expression of Faith 565
Work-and-Business—Judging Qualities In Materials 567
Literature—Humor—Its Meaning, Principles Governing, and Mediums of Expression 569
Social Science—The Heritage of the Home 574
Mission—"O My Father, Thou That Dwellest" 579
Poetry
So Near the Heart Eva Willes Wangsgaard 520
Intercession Celia Van Cott 524
From These Hortense Spencer Andersen 530
A Time For Magic Nellie O. Parker 549
Death Anna H. Michie 563
Gospel Heritage Jeanette P. Parry 578
Life Has Loveliness Lucy Goodrich Lind 583
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 2438.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
 

Relief Society Pioneer Day Sloat HE Pioneer Day celebration held in Salt Lake City this year was made impressive by a parade in which were entered many beautiful floats interpreting the life, the culture and the accomplishments of the Pioneers. The eleven Salt Lake City stakes joined with the General Board in entering a gorgeous float to represent Relief Society. This float was entitled "Eternal Progress" and depicted the steady climb of the women of the Church toward "'light" and "truth." The body of the float was made of white snow-cloth heavily fringed with blue and white Cellophane. Broad terraces made of white Chryscelo floral sheeting with the graduating sides in gold Fabricoid lead up to a queenly golden-haired figure representing the "Spirit of Relief Society." This lovely woman was crowned with a goldenglitter crown on which was inscribed in silver-glitter letters the word "light." Held aloft in her hand was a golden torch with a white-glitter flame. The crown and torch symbolized "truth" and "light." On the various terrace levels were stately golden-haired women gowned in flowing white Grecian robes and wearing golden-glitter olive leaf wreaths for headdresses. These women represented various Relief Society activities which advance women on their upward climb. Music was represented by Ruth Jensen Clawson, of Ensign Stake, carrying a lyre; education by Gertrude R. Garff, of Highland Stake, holding a golden book; sewing by Vera J. Giles, of Ensign Stake, carrying a dainty sewing basket; and social welfare by Norma. P. Anderson, of Bonneville Stake, carrying a golden basket of fruit with an abundance of welfare supplies in attractively-wrapped boxes at her feet. Nina O. Edward, of Salt Lake Stake, represented the 'Spirit of Relief Society." The words 'Relief Society'' in raised blue letters were prominently mounted on a background of gold Fabricoid on the nose of the float Other touches of blue here and there on the float were effective and carried out the Relief Society colors—gold and blue. Pauline T. Pingree was chairman of a joint committee of the General Board and Salt Lake City stakes which planned this beautiful float. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28° AUGUST, 1941 No. 8 Aunt Em And The Gathering Of The Wheat Rosannah C. Irvine N: the year 1870 woman's suffrage came into effect in Utah. Soon after that the idea began to take form that as long as women had the vote they should also have a "voice" by which they might express their opinions. Therefore, in 1872 the Woman's Exponent came into being. Sister Emmeline B. Wells early became associated editorially with this publication, becoming associate editor in 1875 and editor in 1876. Although there are many Relief Society women today who did not know Sister Wells personally, "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called, is well known to all for the splendid work she did for the Society and for the Church in her long years of activity. The old saying that precious things are wrapped in small packages applies to this dear little soul. She was tiny and fragile as a rare bit of china, but with a mentality and an indomitable will that beggars description. One day while Sister Wells was working at her desk in the office of the Woman's Exponent, which was located in a little building on the corner of South Temple and State streets on the site now occupied by the Alta Club, Brother George Reynolds came to her with a message from President Young. He said, "Sister Wells, Brother Brigham ~ wants to see you at his office alone." You may be able to imagine Sister Wells' feelings. At that time, Eliza R. Snow presided over all the women's organizations of the Church. Aunt Em assisted with the secretarial work. Brother Reynolds was emphatic that the President wanted to see Sister Wells alone. Sister Wells at that time, September, 1876, probably lacked some of the assurance that she later gained through her many years of experience. But if she had fears, she also had courage. She went to see the President. Her wonder and perturbation were not lessened when President Young, without preliminaries, said, "Sister Emmeline, I want to give you a mission; and it is to save grain.... I want you to begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon the subject." The President said that the brethren had not been doing their duty as they had been advised to do; that he had been riding around through the valleys and had seen their neglect. The men of the Church had been constantly warned to have on hand enough Page 51] 512 wheat and flour to sustain not only their own families but also one extra family for at least two years. He said that the day was coming when the people of the earth by the thousands would come to Zion to be fed; that there would be famine in the world and preparation must be made for that emergency. Aunt Em, as all other faithful Saints, yielded unquestioning obedience to the word of the Prophet of the Lord. She believed implicitly in his right and power to speak with inspiration. She was overwhelmed with the magnitude of the mission, but she didn't doubt for an instant the divinity of the call. She went at once to consult Sister Snow in her apartment in the Lion House. The President's office was at that time, as for many years after, in the building located between the Beehive House and the Lion House. Aunt Em told Sister Snow of the interview with President Young, and added, "Sister Eliza, you have a great work to do." Sister Snow exclaimed in her short, brusque way, "Indeed, it's not my work. It's your work. If Brother Brigham had wanted me to do it, he would have sent for me." While Aunt Em didn't doubt for an instant the inspiration of the President, the call was so sudden and so unusual that she felt as if she could not attempt it without counsel and encouragement. So she went next to her husband, Daniel H. Wells, " and told him about the call and asked him to write the editorial for her. He refused, saying, as Sister Snow had said, that it was her work, not his. He did agree, however, to go with her to the President when she was prepared to submit the editorial to Brother Brigham for his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 approval. The editorial when written was submitted to President Young who added one paragraph for emphasis, in which he said, "The brethren are to assist them [the sisters] in carrying out this enterprise, both for the building of the storehouses and also in obtaining grain to fill them to preserve for future need." The editorial was published in the Woman's Exponent, October 15, | 1876. It was the fulfillment of responsibilities such as this that developed the ability and character of this successful woman. A! A meeting held November 11, 1876, the Central Grain Committee was formed. By motion of Sister Eliza R. Snow and the unanimous vote of those assembled, Sister Wells was appointed chairman. She selected Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith as her assistants. 'Throughout the Church subcommittees were formed. Immediate action was taken toward getting grain and learning the best methods of caring for it. In the year 1877, the year of the death of President Young, the sisters not only bought wheat and exchanged the labor of their hands for grain, but after the harvesting went into the fields in large parties and gleaned. In those days, the method of harvesting wheat was very different from the methods used in this mechanical age. There were only a few mowing machines; there were many more scythes. Gleaning was more productive, no doubt, than it would be today. Though primitive, it must have been a beautiful picture, the women and children following after the sturdy reapers as they mowed down row after row of the golden, waving AUNT EM AND THE GATHERING OF THE WHEAT grain. One recalls the story of the ancient days when Ruth gleaned in the fields of Boaz. And he, seeing her so young and beautiful following the reapers, told his young men to be kind to her, and to "let fall some of the handfuls of purpose for her and leave them that she may glean them, and rebuke her not." And also following the advice of Boaz to his helpers, our own men were kind to our women. Often they shook their bundles to add to the scanty store, and in other ways showed their interest in fulfilling the purpose of the Prophet. Following the counsel of the President, granaries were built throughout the Church for the storing of the wheat, and it was not long before there was a great supply of grain to be stored. In the beginning grain-saving was designated as a work for all the women of the Church. It, however, gradually became definitely and entirely a Relief Society project. The women, thoroughly in earnest in their desire to succeed in this worthy endeavor, thought of many novel ways, aside from gleaning, of increasing their store. One of the most successful methods was giving "wheat parties.". Tooele was among the first stakes to institute this rare and successful idea. A peck of wheat paid one's admission to the party. In this way many bushels were added to their supply. There were naturally many discouragements in the work in spite of the constant and diligent labor of the girls and women and _ the cooperation of the men. Russia, Canada, and other countries were raising such quantities of wheat that the efforts of the sisters seemed puny. 513 There seemed to be slight necessity for conserving the small gleanings. But the prophecy of the President still persisted in the minds of the women. Brother Brigham had said that the time would come when there would be a call for the wheat. The sisters accepted his word as a mandate, and the work went on. The granaries and elevators were filled. And then came the fulfillment of the prophecy. At the time of World War I, there was a proclamation from the Federal Government that there should be no hoarding of foodstuffs. And we, the Latter-day Saints, were hoarding wheat—hundreds of bushels of that most precious commodity. And there was want in other lands! The Government heard of our stores of grain. Men were sent here to investigate the condition and to demand a compliance with the law. When the matter was explained to. These agents their annoyance changed to wonder and admiration. They were instructed by the Administration to buy all our wheat, paying the regular price for it. This they did; the wheat was not accepted as a gift. By common consent of the ward Relief Societies, and through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, it was decided to deposit the money received from the sale of the wheat in the Presiding Bishop's Office where it would be safe and where it would draw uniform interest. Each year the interest has been sent back to the wards according to their ownership in the fund, and has been used for maternity and child-welfare purposes. In some stakes the wheat interest has been pooled and admin- 514 istered by the stake boards, while in others it has been held and administered by the ward officers. In no case has this money been put to any wrong use. Now after all these years, wheat is once again being stored while there is plenty, against a time of need. Once more the life-saving grain is being gathered and preserved for future emergencies. A portion of the wheat fund is now being used to buy wheat for conservation. HERE is an interesting item which should be added to this story of wheat. When President Woodrow Wilson and his party went through the United States speaking in the interest of the League of Nations, he came to Salt Lake City. Due to the severe strain under which he had been laboring for so long, his health was impaired.. Naturally elaborate entertainment had been planned for him in order that the people might meet him as well as see and hear him in the Tabernacle where he was scheduled to speak. He was met at the station and shown the city. Our own President Grant rode in the carriage with Mr. McAdoo, who said, "Mr. Grant, the President is not well. He doesn't want a lot of attention. He must rest. There is only one thing that he has expressed a desire to do, and that is to see Mrs. Wells." —- President Grant assured him that it could be arranged. President Wilson, who had declined to occupy the President's suite in the Hotel Utah, was domiciled with his entire party on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 eighth floor, which happened to be the one where ninety-two-year-old Emmeline B. Wells lived. Aunt Em was herself in ill health, but being told of the wish of the President of the United States for an interview with her, she was delighted, and a meeting was arranged to take place between his dinner hour and the time of the assembly in the Tabernacle. Our little lady was arrayed in her most attractive clothes with their dainty accessories of pastel scarves, laces, and tulle bows. She was ready to receive the President of the greatest country in the world. The President and Mrs. Wilson came into the room dressed in their evening finery. Mrs. Wilson had on a gorgeous black gown, with a large plumed picture hat. President Wilson sat down by Aunt Em and held her hand while they talked. "Mrs. Wells," he said, "will you tell me about the wheat?" In her inimitable way she told him the story. When he rose to bid her adieu, he said, "Mrs. Wells, I thank you for permitting me to have this interview. I consider it one of the greatest privileges and honors of my life." Aunt Em didn't consider it as a tribute to herself. She naturally appreciated the personal honor, but the tribute was to her Church. Many Relief Society members have heard Aunt Em say in public meetings, in her quaint way, "I believe that I am the only person in the world who has ever been told by a prophet of the Lord to gather and store wheat for famine—except Joseph in Egypt." A Chinese Mother Elsie Young Editor's Note: Miss Elsie Young (Kim Yeung), is a Chinese girl, and a very active member of the Church living in Honolulu, T. H. Her early experiences in the Church were very trying because of the conflict between her loyalty to her parents, their pagan practices and beliefs, and her devotion to the strong testimony of the truth which had come to her. Her earnest desire since receiving the truth has been to carry the message to her own people. This desire has been graciously realized in that she is now teaching the Gospel to a Chinese class organized in Honolulu. Her desire now is to introduce and properly interpret her people, their traditions, culture and customs to us in the light of the revealed Gospel of Jesus Christ. ELSIE YOUNG N a modest little home in the city of Honolulu lived Mother Leong, a kind, matronly Chinese woman, with her husband and children. The alarm clock rang at 6:00 a. M., waking the whole family. One after another they went into the bathroom to clean their teeth and wash their faces. In a short while everyone was through except Wingtong, the little grandson who was visiting with his grandmother for a few days and who just hated to brush his teeth. After much coaxing on the part of his grandmother, Wingtong finally brushed his teeth and washed his face very clean. After their morning grooming, the family sat down and ate their breakfast. Laid out on the table were scrambled eggs, canned sausage, boiled string beans and rice. In this home, rice is the staple food instead of potatoes, although bread can be had at any time. For little Wing. Tong there was a bowl of mush, a medium-boiled egg, canned sliced peaches and hot chocolate. After breakfast Kim Chin (Golden Coin), the elder daughter, started for work. Mother Leong asked her to buy some Chinese cabbage, a good-sized mullet fish, some sweet Chinese pickles and two pounds of roast pork. It was 7:30 a. M. Now. Mother Leong's other daughter, Yook Lan (Jade Magnolia), was on her way to high school. Father Leong had already gone to work. Kim Chin arrived at the Oriental Curio Shop at 8:00 a. M. Sharp. All day long she waited on customers, kept the account books of the store and answered 'phone calls. She enjoyed waiting on tourists who seemed so pleased with what they Page 515 516 bought. Some of them would linger and tell her how much they enjoyed the sunny Hawaiian climate and the green trees. At 12:00 noon Kim Chin lunched at a restaurant. Then she went to do the marketing for her mother. She walked along the meat stalls at the market and saw displayed on the counters large halves of pigs roasted to a rich golden brown. She looked them over. They seemed to contain too much fat. She managed to get the butcher to slice her a piece not too fat nor too lean. After that she bought the other items of food. At 1:00 p. M. She was back at the Curio Shop. There were more people to wait on and articles to be packed and mailed. The Shop closed at 5:00 p. M., after a very busy day. IM CHIN walked home and laid all her purchases on the kitchen table. Mother Leong had already cooked the rice. Now she looked at all the packages on the table. "Where is the cabbage?" she asked. "Oh, I forgot to buy it," said her daughter. | "The meal will be very dry without any cabbage. Go out and get some right away," said the mother. In a few minutes Kim Chin returned with some cabbage. She washed the stalks of green cabbage and cut them up to cook. In this home all the food is cut up in convenient pieces so that it can be easily picked up with chopsticks. Within an hour the food was cooked. A pair of chopsticks and a rice bowl were set at each place on the table. Where Wingtong sat was placed a little rice bowl and a spoon. The food was then placed on the table and dinner was ready. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Mother Leong ordered her little grandson to call everyone to dinner. "Yak fan loh! Yak fan loh!'" yelled little Wingtong, running from room to room. Soon the whole family gathered around the table and partook of the hot home-cooked meal. Suddenly Wingtong looked at his grandma and said, "Ah Poh (Grandma), I. Want a pair of chopsticks, please. I don't want to use my spoon." Soa small pair of red chopsticks was given to Wingtong, and between little chubby fingers he managed to use them quite well. The meal was delicious. 'They had Chinese cabbage, roast pork with soyo sauce, and fried mullet garnished with shredded Chinese sweet pickles and served with soursweet sauce. At the table Father Leong seldom spoke, for it is polite according to Chinese etiquette to remain silent while eating. Mother Leong and the children have adopted the English custom. It is so nice to have the family all together at meal time, and it is such a favorable time for them to chat! English is the language spoken at school and at work, but in order to converse with their parents the two girls have to speak the Chinese language. Yook Lan told her mother what she had done in school, using very poor Chinese in her conversation. Mother Leong, with a frown on her face, looked at her husband and said, "What has come over our children? They cannot even speak in their mother tongue." Father Leong shook his head sadly and said, "It is too much education. They are following the way of the white people. Soon they will forget the language and customs of their own race." A CHINESE MOTHER Kim Chin joined in the argument and said, "Ah Mah (Mother), this is an American country. We use the English language at school and at work. All day long we come in contact with English-speaking people, so we have to speak good English." "I do not object to your using English at school or at work. You must speak English to earn a living, but when you are at home please try to speak good Chinese. You embarrass me before my guests. I hope when you grow up you will marry men of your own race. I forbid you to intermarry. If you do so, your Chinese identity will be lost. Your descendants will not know their ancestral home." Thus spoke Mother Leong to her two daughters. AFTER dinner Mother and Father Leong drank their fragrant Chinese tea, an old custom of ancient China. Yook Lan cleared the table and washed the dishes while the rest of the family gathered in the parlor. Mother Leong kept herself busy sewing a Chinese gown. Kim Chin was busy knitting a sweater, while Father Leong read the Chinese classics. Once in a while he would stop and comment on the wonderful teachings of the great Chinese sage, Koong Fu Tse (Confucius). "Koong Fu Tse was a great teacher!" he would say. "Yes, even the Westerners enjoy reading his proverbs. They regard him as one of the world's great philosophers," Yook Lan would add. At length, Kim Chin turned to her mother. "Ah Mah, are you going to a party with that new dress?" she asked. 517 "No," answered her mother, "I am going to the temple with Wingtong's mother to offer a 'thank' offering. Little Wingtong is now an elder brother. The stork called at his home and left a baby girl. Tomorrow will be exactly one month since that blessed event." One month after the birth of each child in the family, Mother Leong gave a "thank" offering at the temple. For centuries past her people had kept up this religious practice. So early the next morning a male fowl was killed, cleaned and cooked whole for the sacrifice. Mother Leong put the cooked chicken on a plate and carefully placed it in a basket with a jug of rice, wine, canned ginger, two eggs and two rice cakes. Into a box she put a package of firecrackers, some incense sticks, candles and other articles to be burned at the altar of sacrifice. Wingtong begged to go along, and was so happy when his grandmother permitted him to do so. They boarded a taxi and were driven to the Chinese temple. There in the temple in front of Kwan Yen, the Goddess of Mercy, Mother Leong and her daughter offered the sactifice. While the two women lighted candles and burned incense sticks, Wingtong did his share by setting off a loud volley of firecrackers. After that, he kept very quiet and watched, wide-eyed, the bright glow of the lighted candles, the yellow flames of the burnt offering and the chanting of the temple priests. After the temple sacrifice, Mother Leong, with her daughter and Wingtong, returned home. She felt happy and satisfied to once more be a grandmother. Priscilla Livingston Evans John Henry Evans HILE the Evanses were livW ing in Washington, D. C., Mrs. Evans, on the invitation of the Associated Women of the American Farm Bureau, delivered an address in Chicago as guest speaker. One of her interested listeners was a man high in the councils in Washington, who spoke on the same program. On his return to the Capitol, he said impressively to a colleague: "If I had a group of women who could talk like that, I could organize the women of this country around any great issue!" And he meant just that. When we go behind this remark to find its cause, as we shall do presently, we shall come upon a very interesting tap-root quality in Mrs. Evans. But first, something about the facts of her life. Priscilla Livingston Evans was born and reared in Salt Lake City, and there she received most of her schooling. Her birthplace was a lot in the Eleventh Ward, for which her maternal grandmother, Ann Horrocks, had traded a yoke of oxen and a wagon that had brought her and her three small daughters to "The Valley" after she had buried her husband and their only son in shallow Kansas graves. From a Scotch father, Charles Livingston, Priscilla inherited a strong physique, rare courage, and a sense of justice and fair play; from an English mother, Ellen Horrocks, energy, thrift, an orderly mind, imagination, and executive ability. Graduating from high school at Page 518 sixteen, she took stenography at a business college, and at once got a job in a law office. Here she met, and later married, Frank Evans—a man who was to become legal advisor to the American Farm Bureau, a member of Hoover's Farm Board, president of the Eastern States Mission, and the author of a book— The Law of Cooperative Marketing. Mrs. Evans aided in the preparation of this volume. During those intense days of World War I, Mrs. Evans managed the women's group of the Convalescent House at the Walter Reed Hospital. She had charge of sixty volunteer women. In this service, the "Grey Ladies" of the Red Cross had its beginning, and Mrs. Evans was the first woman to don the grey uniform of that unit of the Red Cross. After being married twenty years, she began the study of law at the University of Utah, from which institution she took her degree, Bachelor of Laws. Part of the work for this degree, however, had been done at Northwestern University. She is a member of the Utah State Bar, and could practice law if she chose. Among the honors she has _te- - ceived may be named the following: director, and later treasurer, of the Neighborhood House in Salt Lake City; director of the Community Chest Board; chairman, for several terms, of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the Red Cross; chairman of the National Convention of the American Red Cross in Washington PRISCILLA LIVINGSTON EVANS (the only time this honor had ever been given to a woman ); corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women, an office which she still retains at the request of the other officers; president of the Relief Society of the Eastern States Mis- 519 honor she has received, the home is her chief interest. Mrs. Evans has always been active in Church organizations. While her chief religious interest has been the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, where she PRISCILLA LIVINGSTON EVANS sion; and guest speaker at various conventions held by the Farm Bureau, notably in Faneuil Hall in Boston, in Pasadena, and in Chicago. Few women among us have had such wide and varied intellectual contacts. Yet in spite of all the public served at different times as ward president and stake worker, she has also been an officer in the Primary Association. In addition to serving as Relief Society president of the Eastern States Mission, she has also served Relief Society as theology 520 class leader in the Washington Branch in Washington, D. C. Mrs. Evans was appointed a member of the Relief Society General Board, June 18, 1941. VERY person has a_tap-root quality, to which whatever he does may be referred to as a source. Mrs. Evans' tap-root quality is her intense love of folks. All her life she has been fond of music. She has sung in choirs and played the organ in ward religious services. Choral singing gives her great satisfaction. The divine art is essentially an art to give pleasure to others. This is particularly true of group singing. Law has also held her interest—and law has to do mostly with human beings, especially human beings in trouble. And surely the organizations to which Mrs. Evans has belonged concern themselves primarily with men and women in distress. It is this deep feeling for others that attracts people to her, as a magnet draws filings. All her life long young people have come to her for advice. They tell her things they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 would not confide even to their mothers. With her they find sympathy, understanding, fellow feeling no matter what their age, as well as guidance and direction. Mrs. Evans never reads an address. That is one reason why an audience listens entranced to what she has to say. But she prepares it as thoroughly as a lawyer does a case involving his future reputation. When, therefore, she gets up to talk, she knows where she is to begin, how she is to go on, and at what point she will conclude, even to the phrasing. She believes with all her mind and heart in whatever cause she takes up. There is no half-hearted espousal in her efforts. This gives convincingness to what she says. Her style is fluid, earnest. She means you. That is one of the reasons why so many who listen to her go away saying, "I have never heard anything so stirring!" Priscilla Livingston Evans is what the late Professor William James used to call "one of the competent ones" of a generation. SO NEAR THE HEART Eva Willes Wangsgaard They lie so near the heart, these hours before The leaves are gone, when something seems to say, "The rose with its perfume will slip away. Then gather petals. Make a fragrant core For winter thoughts." I look beyond the door On children spending happiness in play Where crimson roses let no hint betray. That earth is calling back the wealth she bore. So every busy day is like a flower With petal moments rich in rare perfume That we may save against the lonely years. A heart can never know the zero hour If happy children once have filled each room, For echoes rise from laughter not from tears. "Song Passes Not Away" Carlton Culmsee "FOR SALE — Collection of choice paintings by the hundred best artists of the Church. Must be sold as a unit, but is priced so that the first bidder can buy it." This advertisement is an obvious fable. Yet it is pleasant to imagine the cultural delight which would ~ come to the beneficiary of this miracle of marketing. Imagine her to be some housewife in a remote village or on a lonely farm. Spared the necessity of traveling to some distant gallery for a rare but fatiguing aesthetic orgy before the collection, she could bring out her treasures a few at a time and watch them disclose new facets of beauty as she learned to love them. One cannot help wishing that families in every city and hamlet of the Church could enjoy the leavening influences of such a collection. This figment of fancy has been created to increase appreciation for the fact that the idea, impossible as it is in connection with original paintings, can be realized in another art with comparative ease. Through the democratic inexpensiveness of printing, the productions of the leading poets of the Church or of the state can be brought together in a "pocket art gallery" cheap enough for anyone to possess. Such a collection of emotional and spiritual experiences shaped into forms of melodious beauty may justify its existence in many ways. Its values begin to be realized long before its pages begin falling from the press. As an outlet for versifiers in an age offering them relatively few dignified channels of expression, it helps stimulate them to creative activity. Merely to announce the decision to publish a representative collection of verse is enough to cause some poetic seeds to germinate. Not only that. Under the new stimulus some writers try to conceive and express broader conceptions, greater ideals. Writing to please the editor of Light-housekeeping Journal or Kitchen and Garden Magazine, 'the poet tends to fashion bits of tender sensuousness on such themes as "pansy faces nodding good morning to me" and "sun-gold filtering through the window curtains above my sink." Buta church or state or national anthology may lead her to think in terms of the surges of a great people, vague but powerful yearnings and upward reachings. Improvement of technique also may result. There is a permanence and a finality about an anthology that leads some to do extra polishing. Also, afraid of being omitted, the humbler or less practiced writers seek criticism and technical assistance. Many of them study books of prosody and some even enroll in verse-writing courses. The editors of the anthology usually find time to offer suggestions for the improvement of poems. Scanning the verse as it comes out of the mail, the editors become sharply conscious of characteristic errors or deficiencies, and they eagerly seize opportunities to uproot poetic weeds. WITH little desire to be personal but with the aim of illustrating Page 52] 522 this point, I wish to tell one result of my recent efforts to gather and polish verse for the second volume of Utah Sings. Certain defects appeared so frequently that, half in irritation and half in fun, I satirized them in doggerel verses which have proved useful to reinforce criticisms. If you do not mind I shall repeat them here, justifying myself by recalling that the Relief Society is preparing an anthology of poetry and that all readers of this article likely desire to improve their ability either to write - or to appreciate verse. 'This first one is entitled: THE AGONY OF DISLOCATION Put not your thoughts upon the rack And turn them outside in And stretch their sinews till they crack And make them burst their skin. Thou shalt not write of truth sublime And dislocate the noun Merely to make an easy rhyme— Stamp the temptation down When you would sing of love divine And mountains grand and laughter gay And sugar sweet and satin fine And. Sweethearts true and fog so gray. I urge you, poets—draw the line At these devices of another day. THE APOSTROPHE CATASTROPHE The poets of a bygone time, Achieved effects in patterned rhyme By shooting holes in sundry words As hunters cripple winging birds. They disembowelled words like never, Over, beneath, amid, and ever. Instead of words that lilt and sing They gave us many a broken thing, Like e'er, whene'er, and ne'er and o'er, And 'tis and 'mid and dozens more. Let's use contractions of our own Unless they lower the poem's tone. In certain verse, to be colloquial Is absolutely right and okeal. Won't, don't, can't, shan't are all permissible, But 'twas and 'twere are only hissable. Don't cut your words to bits like these With scalpels of apostrophes. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 THE WEARINESS OF WORDS The man with the hoe Had a very long row; The serf and the coolie Would have risen unruly If fatigue hadn't harried them And bowed them and buried them. But we moderns have words that are weary as they From carrying burdens an age and a day. For example (unless there's been perfidy lately), The pines in the amateur poem are stately; If the breezes are blowing, those pine trees are sighing, And embers, sad embers, forever are dying. The dawns are all rosy, the brooks have to babble, And affection is tender to poets who dabble. The maiden's face shines, yet her nose is not greasy. 'Round the silvery moon the clouds are all fleecy. These words were all splendid when vivid and new, But they're tired—let them rest for an aeon or two! LUSTRELESS GENERALITIES The poet's task is double-fold; It's only half enough to hold Fierce passion and enthusiasm; They're vital—but everybody has 'em. The bard must lift his reader up— Give him deep draughts from the same cu The poet drank from when desire Or anger coursed his veins like fire. You can't use trite banalities And tasteless generalities. Avoid such blank-check words as wonderful, Magnificent and beautiful, Entrancing, fair and awe-inspiring— Such ashes are not meant for firing The tinder of your reader's mind. They leave him cold and deaf and blind. Don't rest with saying a thing is so; Use every strength of art to show What made the terror or the awe, The beauty or the power you saw. This is the poet's agony: The strife to make the readers see And feel as keenly, vividly As he did, in the burning rise Of grief, affection, or surprise. SONG PASSESS NOT AWAY Forgive me for devoting much space to these deficiencies. After all, although subtle artistry is important, sincerity of emotion and large, high conceptions often lift a piece of writing above mere technical trifles. It is such honesty and largeness of vision that we poets should seek. The reason we should seek them is that we owe a heavy obligation to our readers. Poets may no longer be what Shelley called them, "The unacknowledged legislators of the. World," and the word "poet" is no longer synonymous with "prophet." Yet we employ devices and powers intended to invest words with the greatest possible beauty and _persuasiveness, and so we must fuse powerful expression with high thought. Not that every poem must be either an epic or a sermon; but even a few lines can voice something of an inarticulate longing of a people or can help give form to vague aspirations or half-seen achievements. And an anthology that is serious in purpose tends, I believe, to make poets a little more conscious of their debt for special gifts they have received. There are, of course, anthologies and anthologies. There is the "pay as you enter" bus which may carry real poems but which almost certainly groans under a load of mediocre verse—or worse. For, being published for a profit only, it throws open its covers to anyone who has been placed on a "sucker list" for thymesters and has some naive dollars to spend. Such anthologies received an impetus from the depression. Some printing houses were willing to gamble on the idea because it promised to help them keep their organizations together and 523 their presses turning. Therefore, the commercial anthology racket has borne some rather wormy fruit, and most of it is, to say the least, exceedingly uneven in quality. But there is a place for the nonprofit anthology which is edited with discrimination and courage born of a desire to further some worthy end. An anthology such as the Relief Society proposes can satisfy a number of needs. It can be, for example, a monument celebrating the splendid ideals and attainments of the Society far more effectively than a marble shaft can do. "Song passes not away," Sir William Watson declared long ago. In a real sense, also, this anthology can be a history of the development of the organization; not a factual chronicle, true, but a record of the more important strivings of the spirit. Moreover, it can be a means of fostering and nourishing the aims and ideals of the Society. During the year of the Relief Society centennial and in years to come it can furnish readings appropriate for the family half-circle at the fireplace, for religious services, and for historical and other programs. It cannot help but reflect movements of emotion and thought, hopes and goals, defeats and _victories. The first state anthology, Utah Sings, Volume I, mirrored currents that give Utah writings its bright glints of idealism and high desire. Also it revealed new currents of science, experimentation in art and in life; new beauties and uglinesses, doubt and faith. It is good to see trends as reflected by groups of sensitive artists and to meditate on what they may mean for the future. It is good to have the beauty into 524 which the poets mold crude experience. If the poets and the editors of anthologies deal frankly with themselves and honestly with their readers, if they try incessantly to develop their art into a flexible but strong instrument, if they drink at the flow of vital ideas from past and present, and finally if they try to create beauty out of the best emotion and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--AUGUST, 1941 thought that is in them, they must contribute worthily to our culture. Wrought earnestly and yet imaginatively, an anthology can bring to any home—city apartment or village cottage or wind-shaken ranchhouse —a gallery of rich emotional and spiritual experiences, forms of rhythmical beauty that grownups will enjoy and youngsters carry away in minds formed to hold them. | & INTERCESSION Celia Van Cott The earth lies stunned by summer's heavy yield, Janus faced, exhausted in the sun. No wind waves stir spiced fragrance in the field; Bronze stubbles stand where dry baked furrows run. Fresh wounds mar the beauty of her side Where plow and spade wrest foodstuffs for the mill; The alder stands with naked boughs flung wide Above the creek where leaf-choked waters spill. When storm's dark wrath sweeps cloud banks down the sky The solar summer ends; the earth subdued Beneath a white jeweled coverlet shall lie In healing rest and through rest be renewed. & A Pinch Of Dust Is A Dollar Martha Robeson Wright ATHER relaxed in the hidebottomed chair and_ sighed with content. "Well, them 'cukes' are all salted. Apples are packed good so they won't bruise. Looks like good weather for tomorTow." "T do hope they don't spoil afore you get 'em there," Mother said, her fingers flying as she knit. "Sure Tom'll be enough help to take along? Indians 've been bad up there on the way to the mines so Elly was tellin' me when she passed by here t'other day." Father was easing off his shoes and wiggling his bare toes. He didn't wear socks until it got cold, and this was only late September. "Don't you worry none, Addie." "But oxen are so slow. You'd never get away from 'em." "Tl figger that out when the time comes. Indians want horses most— fast ones. They only bother wagon trains that look like they had plunder. My wagon won't look any too prosperous." Father took out a black book he always carried with him—a little black notebook that he always kept notes and accounts in for each day. He wet the stub of a pencil with his tongue and then carefully wrote. I knew he was writing down about the apples and cucumbers. I thought about our wagon and the oxen. They looked wonderful to me. The plodding oxen never seemed to mind the heavy yokes. Everything was riches compared to what we had had before. Since we had come to be tenants on Uncle Jeff's farm, life was wonderful. As far back as I could remember there had never been enough to eat, but here on the farm we had everything —even so much we could sell some. There were two cows and plenty of milk and butter for all. Father had turned out to be a good farmer even if he had not farmed before. There were beans, corn, and apple cider made from windfalls; there was vinegar made from beets. 'There were so many apples and cucumbers this year that even when Mother made big crocks of pickles and apple butter and had the roofs all covered with quarters of apples drying, there was still so much left that Father was taking it to the mines to trade. My three sisters were asleep and there was just Mother, Father and me in the room. Mother would have plenty of company with the girls if I went with Father. But he had not asked me to go with him. He was going to take Cousin Tom. I wanted to go. "T could help as much as Tom and lot's more," I said grumpily. "Tm almost as big as he is, even if I ain't but twelve. Leastwise, I'm as tall." Father put away the little black book, turned and looked at me. "Jt ain't what you could do, Elizabeth. It just ain't no part of the country for a gitl—specially a purty one." He winked at Mother. "T'm not purty!" I got a bit cross for I liked being strong and husky like a boy and having Father call me his boy. "Red hair an freckles ain't purty," I added sulkily. Page 525 526 "They's some might think so," said Mother, as she turned the toe of the sock she was knitting. "Your hair ain't red exactly," she stopped and knit for a few seconds. "It's more like the color of a new gold piece I saw once." Then she knit faster and added, "You give up that notion of goin' with your father, Betsy. I need you here." "The girls can do all right," I protested, but I knew it would not do any good to talk any more about it. When Father said, "Elizabeth!" the thing was past arguing. He was going to leave before sunup. I made up my mind that I was going and that I would not be found till it was too late to make me go back. Cousin Tom came in. He was twenty. He was not much taller than I, but he was thick and strong. His hair was as black and straight as an Indian's. "Everything's all fixed, Uncle Ned," he said. "Both barrels so they won't roll?" "Yes, sir. Got the tarpaulin over em."? "Good. Well, guess we'd better get to bed." Father stretched his arms wide. "Ho-hum." Mother put her knitting in the bag that hung on the back of her chair. "Dear me, Ned," she said. "T don't like... I declare, I don't like your goin' up there to trade. Couldn't you sell around here?" "Everybody's got 'cukes' an' apples 'round here." — Father patted her shoulder, "Don't fret, Addie, nothin's goin' to happen—time's is gettin' easier." GOT up before the others the next morning and put on a pair of Tom's work overalls, an old shirt and a cap that Father had brought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 from England. Even with my braids pinned up under the cap, I didn't look like a boy. Before I thought of the cap, I had thought of cutting off my hair, but decided that the trip wouldn't be worth that. I didn't like the color of my hair, with my schoolmates calling me "Red" and "Ginger," but I was proud of having the longest hair in the country 'round. I could sit on the ends of the braids. The cap saved me from cutting it. I wrote a note to Mother, gobbled a piece of bread, drank some milk and scooted out to the wagon and hid under the tarpaulin that was stretched over the barrels and fastened on to the sides of the wagon. Tom came out, and I heard him getting the oxen to yoke. Mother called me, and I knew she and Father were standing in the doorway of the house. "I can't think where Betsy's gone," Mother said, and Father chuckled. "She's hiding around somewhere, sulking," he said. "She's had her own way around here so much she's put out 'cause she can't go with us." "T'm glad you didn't let her. I can imagine how those mining towns are," said Mother—"gambling houses, saloons and...." Father laughed. "I know what you mean, Addie. Don't worry, Tom and I'll keep an eye on each other, won't we, Tom?" Tom answered, "Yes, sir' in a serious voice, and Father laughed again. I heard him go to the wagon and felt him climb on the seat while Tom was hitching the oxen. "Got the rifles and ammunition?" "Yes, sir, ''ve even got some extra back in the wagon with the box of A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR food Aunt Addie fixed up an' the bedrolls." Father took out the bull whip. "Whee-e-e! Git-up!" he holloed, and the wagon moved. " 'Bye, Addie. 'Bye, girls!" =LWhen Mother and the girls called, "Good-by," Father yelled in a louder voice, " 'Bye, Betsy." I giggled to myself. I don't know how far we went, but I was very uncomfortable as the day grew warmer. Then I heard Father say, "Well, guess we'd better eat and rest while the sun's high. Glad Addie got all that stuff ready. There's no good attractin' Indians with a fire. There should bea spring hereabouts I was told." The wagon stopped and Father was at the tarpaulin. He lifted it and sawme. "Well... I'll be...." He was so angry and so surprised, he stood there with his mouth wide open. I crawled out, rubbing myself tenderly. "Can I ride up on the seat? I'm sore." Father caught his breath. Looked as if he'd like to whip me. "T had to come." My throat was dry, and my heart was pounding. "Where'd you get that rig?" "It's Tom's. The cap's yours. I don't look like a girl, do I?" "Elizabeth, I don't like being disobeyed. I ought to make you stay under that tarpaulin all the way, but I guess that'd be too much punishment. You can't go back now. How could you be so thoughtless of your mother?" "T left a note," I said meekly, but my heart was beating excitedly. "We'll probably meet someone going back who'll take word for us. Come on, we'll eat and rest." Tom was working for Father so He 527 he could have something to get married on in the spring. He wanted to marry Selma Peterson, but she said she'd only marry him if he had something of his own. She kept Tom in anxiety all the time by being nice to other boys. Father liked to tease ' Tom a little bit, too. "Times are gettin' soft, Tom, when a couple's got to have a big nest egz to get married. You and Selma were born and raised here. You're used to it. Suppose," he added more seriously, "you lived in England in a nice little thatched cottage and had your own loom, then gave it all up to come out here and starve for the first years? Your Aunt Addie wasn't used to it, but that didn't faze her. I guess Selma's soft, Tom." "She's just practical, Uncle Ned," Tom answered very seriously. HEN we finally got to the mining town, I got scared. I would have to keep my hair up under the cap all the time. There was so much bustle and noise; men were hurrying around, and the only women we saw were dressed up something beautiful. I told Father I'd sure like to be like them, but Father got cross and said, "I hope not." So I kept still, because I know Father always says, "Purty is as purty does." As Father turned into the deeprutted street, men raised an arm in greeting and looked peaceful, but Father said they'd fight and cut each other's throats for dust, especially after they had had a drink of whisky. There were signs in front of the general store: "EGGS—so cents each. "POTATOES—75 cents each. "SHOVELS—$15.00. "PICKS—$10.00," 528 Father pulled up by the general store, and I could see the dickering light in his eyes. Tom took off the tarpaulin and rolled the barrels to the side of the wagon next to the plank sidewalks. Father set some rosy apples on the side of the wagon and began to polish one on his shirt sleeve. He told me to start eating a "cuke." Men began to come around. "What you take fer them apples, misteR" one called. Father just turned the apples around so some of the yellow'd show. The owner4ef the General Store came out. "Hey! Vats diss? I puy all you stuff." "Get away, Jenson," another man yelled, "this ain't goin' to be your profit this time." Everyone laughed, and Mr. Jenson grinned. Then Father said, "How much am I offered?" Mr. Jenson had brought some gold dust scales out with him, and held them up. "Oh, we don't need no scales," yelled a miner, "a pinch of dust is a dollar. I'll give a pinch of dust for each apple and a pinch for each 'cuke.'" "Suits me," they all yelled, and started stamnpeding around like cattle. Father sold each man one apple and one "cuke" first, and after that they could buy as much as they could pay for. I noticed that some men's thumbs and forefingers were bigger and took bigger pinches of dust than others, but everybody seemed satisfied. Tom bought some grain for the oxen. The men stood around —a the juicy apples. "Ain't you going to buy something to take back to Mother and the girls," I whispered. "You go get something." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 "T can't, In supposed to be a boy." "Well, we'll all go in." We bought earrings for Mother and bright new calic@ for dresses and four hair combs for Selma and the three girls—three of the combs just alike so the girls wouldn't quarrel over whose was the prettiest. I tried not to look too interested. Father bought five straw shaker bonnets all the same size. We girls could grow into them. We carried the stuff out to the wagon and laid it on the tarpaulin, then rolled up the tarpaulin so it looked just like a roll of canvas in the wagon beside our bedrolls and the empty barrels. Father bought supplies and two money belts for him and Tom to put around their waists to carry the dust in. "You petter stay de night," Mr. Jenson.. "Thanks kindly," said Father, "but we gotta get back. We will some other time." "Injuns been bad lately. They'd steal de skin off you. Some white men don't like to work for gol' dust eeder. Pe careful," admonished Mr. Jenson., said F, were feeling good and got more than half way home when we met the Indians.- It was just after we had broken camp when a bunch of them came riding over the hill. "Get that hair out of sight," commanded Father, and I was so scared I just pushed it up under the cap and didn't take time to pin it firmly. The Indians came nearer and looked us over. 'The leader got off his horse and approached Father. They talked in the Indian language for some time, and Father showed him the empty barrels—even had A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR him smell them. Finally, the chief nodded and got back on his horse. Father started the oxen, and we went slowly away from the band of Redmen who watched us go. "That was "close," Father muttered under his breath. I was hot and sweating from fright. 'he heavy cap itched my head; and now that the danger was over, I pushed it back of my forehead, and one of my long braids fell out. "Get that hair back," Father said sharply, but it was too late. The Indians came riding toward us gesticulating and excited. "Damage is done," said Father. "The likes of your hair ain't been seen in these parts. 'Take your hat off." My braids hanging long and shining in the sun, the breeze stirring my hair, made Tom say, "Your hair looks like fire." Father had stopped the oxen and sat looking at the Indian who did the talking. At length Father turned to me, "He wants to take you with him. He says the medicine man told them a sign of happiness and good hunting would come from the sun-god. He thinks you're it." "We gotta think quick," said Tom. "Maybe they'd just take the hair," I said. "Cut it off?" Youd think I'd struck Father. I nodded. "All we can do is see." The chief seemed to like the idea and held out his big knife to Father. Father said, "Steady, Elizabeth," as he cut one braid off, then the other. When both braids were in his hands, he gave them solemnly to the chief. Then he returned the knife. The 529 Indians looked like they were going to kiss the braids. My head felt queer. Everything seemed to be going around. After the Indians had gone, Father gave me a drink of water. I cried for a long time. "Guess you got your fill of this trip, didn't you?" said Father. VERYBODY was. Surprised to see us at home. They'd given us up for having been massacred by the Indians. 'Tom was surprised to see Selma there with Mother. Selma gave a shriek and ran_to 'Tom and hung on to him so tight that he lifted her off the ground. "We thought you were scalped by the Indians," said Mother weeping with joy. "I could just see Betsy's beautiful long hair a hanging on to some Indian's belt." I gulped, but I couldn't say anything. I just jerked off my cap and stood there. Mother let out a shriek and clutched Father. "My poor little girl! They scalped her!' We all began to cry, and it set up an awful din. Father began to get mad. "She ain't scalped. It'll grow out. It's her own fault for comin' along." When Father told Mother. All about it, she dried her eyes at once. "Serves you right, Betsy," she said in a firm voice. "It's a just punishment. You'll look like a boy now all right." "All come into the house," said Father, and he and Tom took in all the things we had brought home. Father handed one of the bonnets to Selma. "For the bride," he said, with a little bow. Selma blushed and said, been asked outright yet." Then Tom got red, and said, "T "LT ain't 530 was waiting to see if you liked that Taggart better'n me." "I knew I didn't the minute I heard you was dead by the Indians," said Selma, and she blushed fit to kill when we all screamed with laughing. Father said, "No, he's alive. You won't change your mind though, I hope." I began to feel proud that I had been through that trip, for the girls were looking at me like I was something wonderful. I knew I could get them to do anything I wanted all winter, just by offering to tell them all that had happened. Father was sitting in his chair writing in his little black book. Mother, who had been shaking her head to make the new earrings dangle, stopped to say, "The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 presents are... Purty, but it's you:. It's you bein' back safe that counts." -Father cleared his throat and looked out the window a minute. "Tradin's getting soft," he said. ""T didn't have to dicker about them apples and 'cukes' at all.. They set their own price—high, too. I'm takin' this dust and buyin' me some merchandise, and I'm goin' to start a store. When you don't have to dicker with folks, then its time to start a store. Tom, you can be my clerk." "Yes, sir," said Tom. That is how my Father started the first general store in our part of the country. ~~ GG. FROM THESE Hortense Spencer Andersen These children that, though varied, still reflect Their current day almost without defect, And like a handglass held close by, reveal The fertile, careful genius which yet guides Their eager, lusty growth toward some ideal, Will surely change as life with time collides. The years that have it in their constant power To alter and modify from hour to hour, Let them not steal the precious youthful zest, Nor dull the gallantry, nor sweep away The carefree, buoyant laughter; no, nor wrest From these the trust that lights their way today. oT Home Accident Prevention HE seriousness of the accident problem reported by the American Red Cross in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention' awakens us to the fact that no one can afford to be indifferent to accidents and their tragic consequences. This publication. States that 10 million persons are injured annually; that 32,000 are killed annually in home accidents. It suggests a number of simple activities that can be carried on in the home in the interest of decreasing the high accident rate. These will be published serially in the Magazine during the next few months. In view of the fact that half of the home accident fatalities are due to falls, the first suggestions are made with regard to preventing falls: A. B. I. To Prevent Falls at Home Stairs Stairs should have strong rails securely fastened, sufficient headroom, and should be lighted. Rugs, especially small ones, should not be put at head or foot of stairs, or on landings. If any rugs are used they - should have non-skid material or mats under them to hold them to the floor and prevent their slipping. Carpets used on stairs should be held in place by strips securely nailed down to prevent slipping or rolling. A tear' or rip in the carpet material should be mended at once. Worn or broken steps should be replaced or repaired at once. Stairs should be clear of articles such as toys, brooms, flower stands, etc. Carrying too heavy a load while climbing or descending stairs often causes a fall or a serious strain on the muscles. Floors To prevent waxed floors from causing falls, use less wax and more rubbing. Rugs on floors should have non-skid material or pads to hold them in place and prevent slipping. Mop up grease or water at once. Repair holes in the floor. Teach children early in life to pick up toys, books, etc., after using them.. Bathroom Provide strong hand holds within reach for person to use when getting in and out of tub and shower. Place rubber mat in the bottom of tub or shower to prevent slipping while in standing position. E. Have stationary soap dish to prevent soap falling into tub.. Ladders, Chairs, Etc. Ladders should be strong, safe and properly locked and placed in position before using. Discard them the minute they are not sound. Don't set a ladder up straight for climbing. Give it some slope so it won't tip backward; set the base of the ladder carefully before starting up. Chairs, boxes, small tables, etc., are never safe when used as substitutes for ladders. When going up or down a ladder, hold to the sides of the ladder, not to the rungs. Porches Keep in constant repair. A porch with a too slanting floor, rotten foundation and leaky eave trough will cause a fall on a wet cold day. Provide strong railings. Build gates for protection of small children at head of steps. F. Icy Surfaces Use salt on steps and porches to melt ice. Scatter ashes or sand on walks to prevent slipping.. Falling Objects Leaning and crumbling chimneys will ~ surely fall some day. Dead limbs from trees in the yard should be cut out | before they fall. Don't leave things to fall out of any window or off railings. Warped boards should be removed from walks. Ends of boards should be fastened down. Nails should be promptly removed from loose boards. Page 53] ~The Show Is On! Anna Prince Redd INDIAN MOTHER CRES and acres of gleaming A sand, cactus, yucca and_lizards; mile upon mile of bleached alkali, tufted with coarse grass and scrawny brush; land of wonder and enchantment, cut through with flaming canyons worn by the water of centuries; towering green mountains, high, unexplored mesas, ship-like masses of rock standing majestically in the desert, ageless and solitary against unclouded skies; peaks looming a hundred miles away in the blue distances; land of silences and sounds—western New Mexico! Just outside her modern cities a vast area stretches into unexplored Page 532 canyons that guard the history and culture of an ancient people. Here, where but a handful of white people have ever been, Coronado, the Spanish explorer, in 1540 began his conquest. Long before Jamestown or the Mayflower, this was the land of a people whose homes still cling to the cliffs or top the mesas—skyline villages gleaming in the sun or standing castle-like in the desert. Here lived the first Americans, proudly proclaiming a civilization in many ways the equal of our own. Here their descendants live and die in a primitive state, making jewelry of silver and the sacred turquoise; making pottery, baskets, blankets, and intricate ceremonial pictures in the sand. Transcontinental highways. Crisscross the area, but travelers get only the merest glimpses of the alluring vistas and secluded spots that lose themselves in its vastness. Only on the horseback trips and side tours by bus or automobile does one really look behind the scenes. Since comparatively few tourists can or do take these trips, the town of Gallup, New Mexico, brings the charm, the culture and the traditions of this people to thousands of spectators every year. Nowhere in the world is there another such spectacle—the only allIndian celebration in the world. The white people take not the slightest part in the three-day fiesta except to play host. They feed the dancers, care for their ponies, provide hospital care, feed all Indian visitors at least one meal each dav, THE SHOW IS ON exploit their wares and direct the traffic. The rest is a gorgeous panorama so authentic in setting, so primitive and intense that it leaves one bewildered with its unreal reality. Ten street of the little city becomes a gateway; every house a tourist home if need be. From the spacious El Rancho and the famed Harvey House of the Santa Fe Railroad to the Catholic hospital high above the houses of the town, tourists find quarters and a gay, festive welcome. From pueblo and hogan, from brush shed and teepee, the Indians come. The first to come and the last to go are the tall, straight Navajos who arrogantly call themselves, "Dineh," _meaning, "The People." 'They come in light spring wagons drawn by cay- " use ponies or mules, deluxe automobiles, on foot or on horseback; some even "thumb" their way. Their bright blankets add splotches of color to the otherwise drab soil of their 15,000,000-acre reservation. As they come they chant and sing in shrill, clear tones that echo across the desert and strike against the crimson cliffs, to be re-echoed and lost in the stretching distances. TUG OF WAR 533 Bound for the big ceremonial, this thrifty tribe not only takes itself but its flocks and herds to graze nearby so that no one need miss the show and, incidentally, its profits. Ponies are loaded with Navajo blankets of the finest weave and patterns, squaws and men too old to walk, jewelry and furs for traders, and buckskin for Mexican boleros. Dogs and rattling pans are brought for noise, while sheep and goats for milk and for barter bring up the rear. Flutes of reed and tom-toms of hide make the music. The desert does the rest with thoroughness, coating everything with velvet dust and shimmering heat. From many directions come the strong-winded, stocky little Hopis, peace-loving and solitary. Beside them come the Pueblos from 'Taos to Zuni, the Tewas, small and funloving, and the wary, full-fleshed Utes from Utah and Colorado. From every part of the colorful Southwest they come. Dogs bark and babies wail. Over all is the acrid smell of burning brush and evergreens. In the town, every man, woman and child becomes ceremonialminded. Men go about in flashy silk "TAOS HOOP DANCES THE SHOW IS ON shirts and Spanish sombreros or in the beautiful velveteen smocks and white, slashed trousers of the Navajo. Women don long, full calico fe —cometimes two or three of them—banded around the bottom with orange, purple, yellow, red (any color goes), and velvet, conchobelted tunics. Boys go cowboy and Indian chief. No matter what the time of day, there is no mistaking the festive air of the least inhabitant. From toddlers up, the children are dressed for all the world like their Indian friends, with knotted, stringwrapped hair, moccasined feet, and trailing skirts. Painted, feathered, sashed and be-silvered, they take over the show. This is all good pow-wow to the Indians. They snicker and point as a party of bedecked Palefaces strut by. The Palefaces shout when a gaping Indian gets tangled up in the traffic and stands like a statue, mute and thoroughly bewildered, vainly seeking an avenue of escape. The laugh is only part of the fun, however. The children in Gallup never for a moment forget that they are hosts. If the copper boy doesn't right himself instantly, out darts a white boy to the rescue, and hand in hand the two squirm through the traffic back to the safety of the packed sidewalks. T ten o'clock on each of the three mornings of the celebration, a three-mile parade moves through the streets of the town. The afternoon is given over to a fast-moving, thrillpacked rodeo. All this is but marking time until the unbelievable splendor of the night performance. At night Gallup comes into its own! Thousands of Redmen and Palefaces 535 face each other across huge ceremonial bonfires that light the arena. A hush falls over the crowds that pack the grandstand when the firelighting ceremony is finished. It breaks a little as the mounting flames push back the dark shadows of the scented night and then rises to feverish excitement. As the low boomboom of the tom-toms floats inward, followed by the pad of moccasined feet as the ceremonial dance begins. Into the circle of light rides a dignified Indian chief in trailing feathered headdress and buckskin regalia. Beside him is a beautiful Acoma girl, dressed in soft white doeskin, a single feather in the band around her dark, braided hair. The mincing steps of her pony are contrasted against the larger strides of the Chief's horse. "Behind them the Inter-Tribal All-Indian Band marches. After them come the fierce, war-like Apaches, doing their famous Devil Dance and wearing hoods, black buckskin molded like clay to their faces. The masks whirl fiercely without any apparent motion of the sinister heads. Arms and legs take on unhuman curvatures. Never still, they seem possessed of the evil spirits they seek to frighten away. No less elaborate and varied are the masks of the other tribal dancers. They are seen in every size from fitted hoods to nine-foot Shalako masks worn by the famous Zuni dancers when Shalako, messenger of the gods, visits the pueblo. Taos hoop dancers, oil-well Indians from Oklahoma, Cheyenne Arapohoes, Apaches, Hopis, Navajo Yeibichai dancers in the weirdest of all tribal masks, buffalo dancers, quail dancers, harvest dancers and 536 hunting dancers form a swift-moving, colorful spectacle that quickens the blood and sends an answering chill down the spine as the thousands of spectators send up one long cheer and lapse into awed silence at the unfamiliar sound of their own voices. The rhythmic beat, beat, of the tom-toms, the tinkle of tiny bells, the rattle of gourds and seed pods, the unearthly chant that rises to a shrill crescendo as the march progresses around the fire-lit arena, pulse into the far corners of the country, rising in intensity, dying to hushed monotony. The opening strains of "The Star Spangled Banner" float over the vibrant air. Rising to their feet, one grand mass of color and harmony, Whites and Indians alike stand at attention while the national anthem is played by the Indian band. There is a stricture in the throat as the last note dies away. The silence that follows is a prayer. Then in a burst of gaiety the show is on! Far into the night the dancing pulsates till the earth vibrates with rhythm. Each tribe outdoes the other in weird gyrations. With bonfire 'spotlights, towering mountains for backdrops, chants ten thousand years old the only stimulant to a delirious momentum, the Indians of twenty-one Southwestern tribes revert to the primitive. Time recedes, aeons turn backward as the hour hand moves forward. Daylight finds the ticket stub in your hand a soggy ball and every muscle of your body tense with excitement, but not with weariness. Too keyed up for sleep when you finally seek your quarters, you lie and listen to the hour-after-hour chanting that according to authorities. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 subsides only with the coming of the sun There is the barking of dogs and the smell of smoke and frying foods. The atmosphere is too hot and dry to breathe well. There are pangs of hunger. Itisnoon. Six hours more and the weirdest of all spectacles begins again, to end with the dawn and start all over again at dusk. Tomahawks couldn't keep you from the scene. HILE the Indians lie in lethargic sleep, you begin the tour of the exhibit buildings. 'Throughout the ceremonial, Indian craftsmen of all tribes demonstrate their handicrafts—both the finished highly-artistic products and those in the process of making. Navajo and Hopi tribesmen and squaws make and sell pottery, leather goods, blankets. Sil-. Versmiths make intricate designs on belts, necklaces, purses and beads— all before your eyes. A Navajo medicine man directs the making of the daily sand painting, the most famous and skillful of all the Indian arts. Under his direction, apprentices sift the colored sands through their deft fingers onto the smooth-as-glass sand base in the ceremonial lodge. At night the "painting" is destroyed with proper ceremony. The exhibit offers a sales outlet for fine Indian arts and crafts, but its greatest asset is its educational value. Through these exhibits, conceptions of craftsmanship are elevated among the Indians and Whites, and national and international markets are opened up. This is especially true of the Navajo blanket industry. | Navajo rug-making is the oldest living craft in America It had THE SHOW IS ON reached its lowest level of production ten years ago. Since the inception of the Gallup August Ceremonial, the industry has increased over one hundred percent in both quality and quantity, and the weaver is now getting a fair return for his labor, as well as a market for his wool. Exhibits of farm and garden products, grain, sheep, goats, horses and cattle are shown, which would rival those of most state fairs.. Prizes awarded in all fields stimulate the craftsmen to improve their work. They get new ideas from the displays to take home and adapt to their own individual art. The result is better products and more business. Demonstrations of weaving, pottery-making, Kachin carving and decorating are hourly in progress. Indian arts and crafts now attract 537 world-wide attention. Blankets, beads, jugs, decorative pottery, tomtom end tables, are gay additions to living rooms. The vogue for Indian design in clothes among the Whites is seen as a direct result of the exhibits. The whole ceremonial is an educational exploitation that defies description. Editor's Note: The Indians set the dates for the Inter-Tribal Indian Ceremonial held at Gallup, New Mexico. The exact dates vary from year to year. This year (1941) the ceremonial will be a four-day fiesta and will be held August 13, 14, 15, and 16. Pictures used in this article are by Doctor Carl E. Young, a devotee of Indian lore. He is particularly interested in Indian dances and ceremonies and is frequently in attendance at the Gallup ceremonial where these pictures were secured. <<"TXAKE time to work—it is the price of success. Take time to think—it is the source of power. Take time to play—it is the secret of perpetual youth. Take time to read—it is the foundation of wisdom"—Rueminations. 6¢7 IFE is no brief candle to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations,"—George Bernard Shaw, Irish Dramatist. HA P PEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon O'er-arched by August's deep blue skies The hope of spring resplendent lies. 'RHE race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong." To this faith hold fast. It is things spiritual that conquer and survive the horrors of brutal force and preserve the beautiful way of life. Creative souls who gave the world its cultural glory are immortal, and out of the ashes of destruction they will build again. Such is the story of the past; such must be the story of the present! UTH STEWART, aged seven, niece of a ship steward, said to her music teacher one day, "Paderewski came to see me yesterday. He played for me." It was true. The Polish patriot and the world's greatest pianist played for this little girl on her battered piano. These human gestures were as much a part of his life as his art; both were expressions of a great soul. ARBARA BRANDLEY, daughter of one of Utah's outstanding poets — the late Elsie Talmage Brandley — staged a unique wedding party this summer as she stood with her young husband, Norman Howells, son of counselor Marcia K. Howells, attended by six lovely sisters as bridesmaids. ROTHELLA WADE, of Salt Lake, won a prize and special honors for her designs at the annual exhibit of the Trephagen School of Fashion in New York City. Page 538 on COCHRAN was the first woman pilot to take a Hudson bomber across the Atlantic to London, where she landed successfully. MARY SPENCER CORNWALL, 80, and Tranquilla Brady Jordan, 95, are numbered among the notable mothers who passed away this summer. CGEORGIA YOUNG, for many years an active officer in the Altrusa Club, an ethical social-relations organization, was a popular~ candidate for International President at the convention held in Roanoke, Virginia, this summer. LORA CLOMAN, Washington socialite, one-time resident of Utah and: Idaho, later connected with United States Embassy in London, at 70 has written her autobiography, titled, I'd Live It Over. Walking the Whirlwind, by Bngid Knight, No One Now Will Know, by E. M. Delafield, and Of Men and Women, by Pearl Buck, are a few of the many worthwhile books by women recently published. RENE PICK, student at a Polish university, was arrested with forty other fellow students, imprisoned in Russia and sentenced to be executed. Through the American minister she was released and is now back in the United States. She has many interesting stories to tell. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - - Belle S. Spafford Anna S. Barlow Vivian R. McConkie Achsa E. Paxman Leda T, Jensen Manns. Juue Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams Vera W. Pohlman THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE = President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Leona F. Wintch Anna B. Hart mets Ss. Ghee Ethel B. Andrew a Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Secretary-Treasurer Second Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - Vol. 28 OQ EDIT O RIAL —T, Friendliness in Church Gatherings POPULAR magazine recently published an account of a little orphan girl, eight years of age, who journeyed nearly 8000 miles alone from Norway, her name and destination stitched on the inside of her coat. Her knowledge of the American language was limited to two words, "Mickey Mouse." After landing in New York, the little traveler rested a few days and then was placed on a train by an attache of the Traveler's Aid Society and sent an additional 3155 miles to San Francisco, where a gentleman who had adopted her received her at the final terminus of a long trek. Greeting her in her native tongue, the gentleman asked, "How do you like America?" Enthusiastically the little girl answered, "I am glad I came to America. Everybody adopted me." The memories of her long trip were of kindnesses received along the way. She was alone and yet not alone. Everyone she had met had extended the hand of friendliness, and the long road had been made bright by human kindness. The magazine concludes the story by saying: "It is comforting in times of universal turmoil to read of something wondrously beautiful, something not yet perished from the souls of men." Friendliness and human kindness are universal needs of mankind. Without them one is lonely and embittered; with them one's spirit is light and he rises above the things that would defeat him. However, in every community, in schools, churches, clubs or social organizations, there are those who are denied these things. For one reason or another they stand on the edge of things. Sometimes it is because they are critical and bitter, condemning other people as snobs, blaming circumstances, feeling that they are unappreciated and misunderstood, that people are unfair to them. Sometimes they remain on the outside because they feel inadequate in some respect—financially, socially, or otherwise. Sometimes something has occurred in their lives that makes them withdraw from the group. Sometimes they are not a part of things merely because they are by nature Page 539 AUGUST, 1941 o. 8 540 diffident and retiring. Wistful people, they innately yearn to be a vital part of the group, to be friendly and to win friends, but they remain lonely because they do not know how to freely mingle with others. No matter what the cause, he who feels outside the group and who remains on the edge of things is to be sympathized with, and understanding effort should be made to bring him in and to make him feel an integral part of the whole. All too frequently, however, those who should be alert to his situation, and who are in a position to draw him in, either fail to recognize his need or are so absorbed in other (and often less important) things that they do not take time to give him the consideration he deserves. In some instances they, thoughtlessly no doubt, actually contribute to his feeling of loneliness. This is frequently the case in our Church gatherings, even in Relief Society. A letter received at the general office a short time ago is indicative of this. It read: "There are a few things that have been fretting me which I mention for your consideration. A lady who has been active and lived in the ward most of her life said she had bet her family that she could go to Sunday School and Sacrament meeting and not have one person speak to her, except perhaps the bishop at the evening meeting. She claimed this happened. It has also happened on other occasions." Church gatherings should be the most friendly gatherings in the world, because the Church is built upon the divine principle of brotherhood. The terms "brother" and "sister," so universally used in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Church, are symbols of the fellow feeling that should characterize us 'upon all occasions and under all circumstances as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 'There is no organization more concerned with the well-being and happiness of mankind. Therefore, nothing should be lost sight of that in any way promotes happiness and good will. While a spirit of friendliness should pervade our meetings, it should always be properly expressed —never in whispering or other discordant ways. Elder Melvin J. Ballard said upon one occasion, "The future growth and strength of the Church depends upon our ability to win and hold and save our fellowmen." Friendliness wins and holds as do few other things. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in addressing the Relief Society sisters, said: "When persons manifest the least kindness and love to. Me, oh what power it has over my mind." Officers should never become so involved in the work itself that they lose sight of the people. Time spent in cordial greeting and in making a sister feel she is one of us is equally as important in holding her as is the perfectly conducted meeting. Members, too, must remember that while officers may at times be at fault, there are laws in friendship, and those arrive who observe these laws. And what are the laws of friendship? A wise writer puts them thus: "A man that hath friends must show himself to be friendly. That is to say, people who wish to have friends must do their share in the transaction. They must go half way at least. 'They must not stand around EDITORIAL waiting for people to speak to them, or hurry away without giving anyone a chance to speak. 'They must find pleasant things to say and kind things to do. They must make a business of friendship—study its laws, watch for opportunities, invest, dare and expect success. Those who practice the laws of friendship are 541 rewarded with an envious concourse of friends." Through cooperative effort, the spirit of "gladly meeting, kindly greeting" should distinguish all Church gatherings. Everyone attending any of our meetings should feel as did that little Norwegian girl, that "everybody has adopted" him. Ee Death of Sarah Mm MeLelland THE death of Sarah M. McLelland, for twenty-four years a member of the Relief Society General Board, occurred in Salt Lake City, June 28, 1941. Sister McLelland was the daughter of 'Thomas and Elizabeth M. McLelland, faithful Latter-day Saints who received the Gospel-in Scotland in 1841. Following the splendid example of her parents, Sarah McLelland was devoted to the Gospel and spent her life in active service to the Church. Endowed with many talents and great energy, she spent both in furthering the great latter-day work. She began her Church service as a Sunday School worker in the first Farmer's Ward Sunday School in 1876, and from that time on she held positions of responsibility and leadership in the Church. In 1909-10 she fulfilled a mission in the Central States and in 1911 did missionary work on Temple Square. She was called to the Relief Society General Board May 12, 1911. At the time of her call, she was president of the Granite Stake Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. As a member of the Re. Lief Society General Board, Sister McLelland met with willingness and efficiency the many responsibilities incumbent upon her as a Board member. She served on committees, visited the stakes, and accepted many special assignments. In 1913, in company with President Emmeline B. Wells, she attended the National Council of Women held in New York, and again in 1918 she attended the meetings held in St. Louis, in company with Julina Smith and Amy Brown Lyman. Feeling that her health would no longer permit her to fulfill the arduous duties of a member of the Relief Society General Board, Sister McLelland in 1935 requested to be relieved of this responsibility. | Her request was granted in April of that year. Her interest in the work of the Board, however, was pronounced until the time of her death. Sister McLelland has set a worthy example in her life of love and service. She has written an enviable record in the history of Relief Society. 'The General Board acknowledges her service and is grateful for her life. Vlo TO THE FIELD Cooperation Urged in Campaign for Non-use of Liquor and Tobacco OR some years past there has been functioning in the Church a General Campaign Committee, with Elder Joseph F. Merrill of the Council of the Twelve as chairman, and with each of the following groups represented: the Presiding Bishopric, the Church Department of Education, and each of the auxillary general boards. In each of the stakes of the Church is a similar committee, appointed by the stake presidency. These committees are organized to put forth concerted efforts to help curtail the increasing consumption of liquor and tobacco. The Relief Society regards it a privilege to be represented on these committees, to be called by the Priesthood into counsel, to give aid, and to lend influence to a cause so vital and far-reaching. 'The General Board appreciates all that Relief Society officers, committee members, and visiting teachers have done in the interest of this cause. It is especially grateful to the visiting teachers for their willingness to assist in the distribution of the many thousands of pamphlets sent to the stakes. All members of the Relief Society are urged to take a personal interest in these splendid publications and to encourage all members of their families to read and discuss them as family groups. It would be well to keep them on file for future reference for the younger members of the family. Mothers in the Church are urged Page 542 to become acquainted with the various activities of the Priesthood, auxiliary organizations, and the Church Department of Education with regard to the non-use of alcohol and tobacco. They should be interested and cooperative, that the children of the Church may gain the benefits and blessings intended for them. Space will not permit us to present a detailed account of these activities, but mothers may become acquainted with them through the local organizations and committees. 'They are broad in scope and are so planned as to interest our children and at the same time teach them the benefits that come. From clean living; for example, in the Primary program is included something specific for the Blazer Boy, the Trekker, and the Guide, whereby they may learn the importance of clean living. A nine-year-old boy, during the year he is a Blazer, starts the "health trail" and in a very unique way meets the "Vitamins." The ten-year-old Trekker continues on. He finds added experiences along this trail of health, and finally learns what the "Word of Wisdom" says about foods. The eleven-year-old follows along the "Guide" trails and learns to desire a strong, healthy body. To obtain it he is willing to follow the health rules given by our Father in Heaven. Therefore, a Guide will not use tobacco; he will not take a drink that contains alcohol. To further clinch childish impressions, the Pri- NOTES TO THE FIELD mary is initiating poster projects on the "Word of Wisdom," emphasizing clean living. One attractive poster reads: ""Wormy apples fall before the harvest." 'This example of what the Primary is doing indicates the fine program that is planned by that organization to assist in the campaign. Mutual Improvement Association programs are laden with excellent materials and inspirational intrigues, to charm, win, and keep our sons and daughters "clean and unspotted." Special attention is called to a folder prepared and sent out by the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. 'The material is of special interest to our girls. Girls are asked to meet together in informal groups during the summer months to discuss this material. Mothers should encourage their daughters to keep this assignment. Special lessons are also planned for Gleaners; for example, the lesson for November, 1941, "I the Lord Give Unto Them a Promise," and the lesson for December, "Rally Round the Standard Bearer." In May, 1942, stake rallies of M Men and Gleaners, duplicates of this year's June Conference rally, are to be held. The rules for basketball players found in the M Men's Hand Book are excellent and should be read by mothers. If there is an Explorer in the family, mothers will be interested in reading about "Healthmen" from the Supplement to Log of the Explorer Trail, No. 10, to learn the requirements for a health merit badge. Explorers are to commit to memory the "Word of Wisdom." The Aaronic Priesthood project 543 for 1941 and 1942 deserves special attention. Every member of that order of the Priesthood is to prepare and give a five-minute talk in some Church gathering on the "Word of Wisdom." The Church Department of Education has carefully worked out units of study on the non-use of alcohol and also on the non-use of tobacco as regular parts of its course of study. These have been revised and enlarged this summer. It is also preparing a transcript, one side of which presents scientific facts relative to alcohol and the other side tells how the non-use of alcohol contributes to happy, joyous living. This is to be used on sound machines with pictures. The Sunday School has prepared an interesting and instructive film entitled, "Out of the Game," with a transcript which supports it. One side of the transcript is the story of a boy who was "out of the game" because of the use of tobacco. The other side is a sequel to this and is the testimonial of great athletes and coaches on the benefits of abstinence from alcohol and tobacco. The General Campaign Committee is anxious to extend its efforts to the boys in the army camps. When writing to their sons, mothers might ask them to be alert for anything that the Church might be doing to help protect them from temptation. All projects in the interest of non- 'use of alcohol and tobacco have teceived careful and thoughtful consideration and merit the heartiest cooperation of the mothers of the Church. The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER FIVE SYNOPSIS ALYN FORDYCE struggles against her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, who insists upon continuing his work at the Milton Nurseries, which he likes, but which pays only $150 a month instead of $500 which Alyn is used to. She thinks he is selfish not to humor her in compensation for her inability to have children, and is annoyed with his enthusiasm over a sport, or mutation, on an apricot tree —one that blossoms earlier than the rest. She wishes John could meet JUDITH WYATT, whom she has met by chance, a young woman of good breeding and grace, who is to become a mother. Humiliated by her friends, who know John's change of status and her refusal to admit it, Alyn decides the only solution is divorce. However, when she goes to fill the appointment with JUDGE OLDHAM, whom she has chosen to represent her, she overhears him denouncing a woman who apparently is surrounded by her same set of circumstances, and she hurries out of his office without waiting to see him. In desperation, with a desire to be independent of John, Alyn decides to get a job. LYN sat aloof from the people A about her, but felt rather foolish in the waiting room of The Home Acres Real Estate Company. She was very conscious of the presence of an elderly man, a slender girl, and a young man whose linen was not too clean. 'They were there for the same purpose as she—employment. The younger man and the girl were engaged in conversation. "T always figure this way," the young man was saying, "when you go Page 544 to look for work, remember this— you may be scared, but the man who is hiring you, he's scared, too. He's wondering about you just as much as you are about him. You are trying to impress him all right, but don't forget he's trying to impress you just as much, as a boss I mean." Never-. Theless, the young man straightened his tie nervously when the secretary motioned for him to go into one of the offices. Alyn stirred to leave; this was no place for her, waiting with shabby people to be interviewed. But she was too late—the secretary's eyes were upon her, and her expression was one of respect, almost awe. Real estate sounded more. Dignified the Alyn than some other lines of business. She had thought of interior decorating or some vague executive position. She might casually talk to Vivian Preece who owned the Axdale Furniture Company — they had gone to school together— or to Farley Haight who had the art store. They would do anything for her. There were dozens of people she could appeal to, and, if the worst came to the worst, there were always her close personal friends. "Mr. Hendley will see you now,' the secretary announced. The young man who had preceded her into the office came out in a_ surprisingly short time and_ passed hastily through the room, head down, unwilling to face the girl, unable to hide his failure, brave opinions notwithstanding. Alyn went in. The THE MERRY-GO-ROUND man across the desk looked up with an expression of pleasant surprise, welcoming a deviation from routine. "Yes?" he said. "T saw your advertisement in this morning's paper," Alyn began. "Oh, that. Well, it's a beautiful house, but you are in the wrong department. Step through the door and ask for Mr. Thomas; he knows all about the property.". "I mean your advertisement about employment," explained Alyn. "You mean you want work?" Mr. Hendley asked incredulously. "Yes," said Alyn, "I do." The man's face underwent a change. The suavity of the salesman, the deference due a customer were gone. Instead, there was the searching glance of one who dealt shrewdly with those who might gain employment from him. He appraised Alyn as if she had said something preposterous. "Are you a typist?" "No," said Alyn, "I don't type." "Can you keep records, or care for a file?" he asked. "No," said Alyn again. Mr. Hendley sat back in his chair and looked at her with something less than pity. "Perhaps you had in mind the selling end of the business?" he offered with an air of great patience. "Selling?" The very word stiffened a resentment in Alyn. Mr. Hendley saw it at once. "Yes, selling. Selling, my dear young lady, is the ground upon which all business is built—not buying, selling. Whether you like it or not, if you don't recognize that fact you have no place in the business world." His tone indicated his forte and left no room for doubt. He was a salesman and was proud of it. "T guess you are right," said Alyn. 545 "I had not thought of it in 'that way." "What had you thought of? You want work. What can you do? What has been your experience?": "None, I'm afraid," answered Alyn. "Well, in that case, Mrs...." "Fordyce," supplied Alyn automatically, and cold with tage and resentment at being patronized and scolded, she started to Astemmialle her things. ° Mr. Hendley continued, more kindly. "You could go to the State Employment Office; they may find something for you to do, if you must work." He seemed unable to associate the need for work with one so well dressed. "Husband out of work?" "No, my husband... " began Alyn and stopped; she could not tell this man anything of her private affairs. Mr. Hendley made a sympathetic gesture. ""I'oo bad, those things do happen." Alyn realized that he had mistaken her for a widow. "Frankly, Mrs. Fordyce, this is a hard world, a man's world. If you want to make your way with any degree of success, you must have some of the qualities of a man, and you must have something specific to offer or there will be no takers." How crudely he put it. Long afterward the words clung— you must have some of the qualities of a man, and you must have something specific to offer. | LYN went home wearily despondent. The recital of her lack of capabilities, humiliating, shattering, went through her mind despite every attempt to shut it out. She could not type, keep records, care 546 for a filing system; she was temperamentally unfitted for selling, therefore she was of no use in a man's world of barter and trade. Surely there must be something in her make-up that fitted her to do something reasonably well; there must be some place into which she would fit. She had thought herself well equipped to take a place in the world outside of her home. But just what could she do? She thought of combining her ladylike qualities in some way with commercial life, but she withdrew hurriedly from that thought. There was something distasteful about being charming for hire. The day's encounter had been enough and too much for her. John sat reading the paper and poring over texts on horticulture. Alyn pretended to listen to the radio, but in reality her thoughts made no clear pattern. She felt trapped, defeated at every turn. After an almost wordless evening, she went to bed to dream that she and John were swimming endlessly at sea; that she was towing John to a distant land, dim in the half-light; that he was heavy and resistant. She knew on that distant land were fresh water, food, comfort, but John could not be made to understand; that he kicked free to swim in some mad fashion of his own. Instead of relief at the loss of his weight, she found, paradoxically, that he had been supporting her, not she him. She was not rested in the morning, and it irritated her slightly to have John present himself at the table shining with vitality, brushed and shaved, smelling faintly of soap and toothpaste. He spooned into his apricots and held up a half for her to: see. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 "Alyn, you would be amazed to see the apricots on that limb I am watching. 'l'hey're larger than these already and haven't begun to ripen; they're two whole weeks ahead of the crop. Milton and the other men are watching them, too. They all call them the "Fordyce" sport. "John," said Alyn. "How did you say you got your job?" "T just went in and told Milton I wanted it; that I had had no experience in that line, but I had always been interested in horticulture; and he gave me the job." "That easy?" Alyn looked at John with new eyes. "Well, almost. He was on the way out to look over some trees, and I went along. We talked an hour or so, and I guess he could tell my interest was not pretended. I told him how I felt about a person working at something he didn't like and how I didn't fit where I had been." "John, you didn't! And he hired you, knowing you to*be a fai..." Alyn caught herself. "Oh, John, I'm sorry." "T wasn't a failure," said John without rancor. "Mr. Milton said not many men would be as honest as I. He felt the same as I did, having been an outdoor man all his life. He said an office job would drive him daft in thirty days." It was almost easy to agree with John. "John, is it easy to sell things? I mean merchandise, dresses, real estate, and things like that?" John laughed. "It seems odd for a Merriweather to ask that question. Your family's money was earned through that special gift. My father used to say your grandfather could have sold a waistline to a wasp. Your THE MERRY-GO-ROUND father was just as capable, and Mother often envied your mother's ability to dispense dinners and charm in the right direction." "Oh, John! You make my people sound awful—money grabbers, Shylocks. Nothing is farther from the truth. The culture.... The background.... I suppose you think I am the same." "No, really. I have nothing but admiration for a gift, no matter in which direction it lies; but I don't believe in using one man's gift as a yard rule for all." Alyn couldn't believe that John was not treating her to a little subtle sarcasm, though she searched his face in vain for a sign. 'The suspicion nettled her. "What a crude conversation," she said, but in spite of herself little scraps of conversation, little incidents which justified what John had said came to her mind. "Well, darling," John continued, "a woman as beautiful as you are should not have to worry. I meant no insinuation that your people were not absolutely right. Selling, competition, was the breath of life to them. Certain lines of work would have been torture to your father, so it would have been silly to force him to do any work other than that which he did. Remember what I said about a dominating interest? You can't have it without doing the thing you love most to do. Know what I mean? GUDDENLY Alyn recalled all that had brought up this conversation; she remembered the quick snub she had received from Bea McIntyre when her financial status had changed. 547 "T know only one thing," she burst out, "so long as I live I shall have no desire to see Bea McIntyre again." As soon as the words were spoken she knew the outburst to be impetuous and childish, and she wished she might recall what she had said. "Bea?" questioned John. "Why do you say that, darling?" Alyn, somewhat abashed, would not answer. "Alyn, why don't you talk more freely to me? You are so reserved that I have to guess what goes on in your mind, and it distresses me very much. Believe me, darling, I want you to be happy. I still want that in spite of the motives you must sometimes apply to my actions. Has Bea been unpleasant?" John actually bristled, but Alyn remembered his prediction that her friends would soon make her feel the difference in her financial status. She wouldn't let John have the satisfaction of knowing his prediction had been fulfilled. "I must remember butter when I get the groceries," she said at random, trying to change the subject, but John detected the device. _ "Alyn," he said, sitting opposite her and taking both her hands in his own, "I have thought through our situation thoroughly. J know some unpleasantness is inevitable. I had planned to keep you happy in spite of everything, but when you don't tell me about what goes on I can't help the situation. I know a great deal of the wrong is in your own thinking. I do so want to help you settle your values as I have mine." Alyn was surprised and nettled. She drew back her hands, 548 ~"T think this is stupid," she said coldly. | John gave her-a long, concerned look, and Alyn had a moment of regret that she had been so unpleasant. His words had the ring of truth, but how dared he suggest she was wrong? No matter how he felt about his own activities, he had no right whatever to force her into an unwanted situation. Everywhere she turned for escape she was balked by the lack of money. C She felt as if she were going mad. There was not one person in whom she could confide and who would understand. Resentment mounted within her; the same old nightmare, the same fissures at her feet. Sensibilities or not, the only possible way out for her was a job. GHE feverishly dusted and finished odds and ends of straightening, in haste to be off. She would go to the State Employment Office first, she promised herself; after that, if necessary, she would go to her friends. There would be no repetition of yesterday's mistake. She would be frank as to her lack of experience. Surely there would be someone in the Employment Office willing to talk to her about her situation. But there was no one. The place was extremely businesslike with rows of desks at which sat numbers of workers absorbed with stacks of papers. She was directed here and there with machinelike impersonality. "Fill out this form at one of the desks," she was told, or, "We will call you, Madam, if we can place you,' and she was dismissed, feeling, of course, that nothing whatever would come of it. | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Outside, on the sidewalk, Alyn took a long breath. Now for her friends. She realized suddenly that there was not one friendship she cared to risk. How could she open the subject, for instance, to Vivian Preece? Her steps tapped out the questions Mr. Hendley had asked her yesterday. Viv would be happy to see her after so long a time. But what if his face changed when he learned her reason for coming to him, as did Mr. Hendley's yesterday? It seemed not quite honest to play upon a friendship for something she couldn't get without such a personal appeal. She knew she couldn't do - it. Suddenly a thought struck her. "Your grandfather could sell a waistline to a wasp," John had said. So could her father and her mother. Perhaps she had the same gift inherent in her nature. The thought did something to her. <A Merriweather at sea in business? She would show John Fordyce! She would apply for a selling job at every store on the street! The sign, "Charlotte: Chapeaux," caught her eye, and into the shop Alyn went. The one clerk was busy with a customer in the back. Alyn waited a few minutes, then her eye caught a hat, a lovely thing of fine, white straw with flattering lines. It was not rakish, but was perky enough to be smart. She simply must see how she looked in it. She took off her hat and moved toward it with the intention of trying it on. At that moment a girl swept in, nodded to her briefly, and quickly sat down before a mirror. She noted the hat Alyn was about to grasp, and said: "Yes—try that one on me." Alyn looked at her in amazement, THE MERRY-GO-ROUND then perceived that the girl thought her a clerk. She opened her mouth to explain, glanced about for another employee. The clerk was still busy, her back turned. Alyn closed her mouth and did as the girl bade. "We'll see whether I can sell," she told herself grimly. "Fine," said the girl, hardly looking at the hat. "I'll take it." " This was too easy. "No," said Alyn, distressed at the girl's offhand manner. Besides, the hat did not become her. "Look what the shape does to your jawline. This isn't your hat. Here...." She snatched andl hat from a niche—one with a youthful halo effect in blue and brim-facing of pastel flowers. "Look. See how it emphasizes the delicate point of your chin? A girl 549 with a smooth brow, so young and slim and lovely as you are should wear a girlish hat. It's the difference between being good-looking and beautiful." The girl stared. At her, wide-eyed. "Hats," she said, "are the bane of my life. I only buy them. Because Mother insists. I never know how to select one. Maybe you'll teach me. I'll come here every time. Mother... Her hats look like Queen Mary's.' " "TT,.." began Alyn. "You just do that, dearie," cut in a voice, "and I'll see that this lady always assists you in your selections. She does know her hats. There isn't one in the store that would become you better. Here, I'll box it for you. That will be twelve-fifty." (To be continued) i A TIME FOR MAGIC Nellie O. Parker I love to sit by the fire While the embers are all aglow And muse in the shadowy stillness Where things but vaguely show. It's then I feel a presence So peaceful and benign Which spreads a magic beauty Over everything of mine. The room takes on a richness No palace has rivaled yet; I feel glad and oh, so grateful— There are no troubles to forget. I hear the rhythmic breathing Of my dear ones up the stair; My heart beats strong in unison— Love is vibrant everywhere. Could it be this magic something Is the spirit of our home Drawn by my receptive mood To make her presence known? Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. IX Character Education N a program of home reading it is important to include something on the serious subject of character education. Although character education is a community problem, with responsibility resting upon the school and the church, it is also a home problem; what we become depends to a greater degree 'upon our homes than upon any other agency. The home has no more important function. Harry Emerson Fosdick says: "With the many overhead schemes for the world's salvation, everything rests on integrity and driving power in personal character." Since example is more effective than precept, parents themselves must be what it is desirable that their children become. But that is not enough. To do the job effectively we should become acquainted with the methods and channels by which character may be developed. The goal of all moral education is summed up in the commandments of Jesus: ""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God... And thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.... On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." But this is theory, and the practical method of working it out is our responsibility. We speak glibly of the term "character." It may be difficult to define, but certainly the test of character is the ability to live up to one's ideals. It is the life within that is of vital Page 550 importance, not the life our friends know. All the talent and gifts in the world will not make a man of one if one has not character. It is not always found in beautiful homes. It is even possible to have a beautiful home life without developing the essentials of character. Mr. Frank C. Sharp has written a book entitled, Education for Character, in which he discusses the aims of moral education and some of the methods of attaining those aims. "Children must be educated for the larger life," he says, "to help one's neighbor with love. No matter how attractive or gifted a child may be, moral education has not reached its goal until there have been adopted principles which enable the possessor to stand on_ his own feet, regardless of what others may do." A child must be taught to say "no when his whole soul cries out yes and to say yes when his soul cries no." When he can do that he has learned to stand alone. A notable example of what can be accomplished by skillful effort is found in the story of the great teacher Fenelon and his pupil the Duke of Burgundy. Fenelon was entrusted by Louic XIV with the education of this boy, his grandson. The young Duke was headstrong, at the slightest provocation showing a violent temper. Fenelon was a man of rare ability and intelligence. When the SOME LITERARY FRIENDS boy showed fits of temper, his teacher picked up his playthings and walked away, leaving him alone until his conscience mastered him. He gave him simple food and exercise in the open air, but most important of all he made his study so agreeable that he entered the schoolroom almost as readily as he left it. This developed in him a hunger for knowledge which was to fit him for his position as ruler of his people. To strengthen the boy's judgment, they read history and discussed the faults of rulers. The prince was always asked to give his opinion of the conduct of each king. His moral lessons came first from fables and fairy tales. From here they went to history and from history to politics, which prepared the boy for the throne. By this method, Fenelon completely changed the character of this child, correcting his faults and making of him a person who believed in the principles of truth and justice and who loved the happiness which comes from a sense of duty well done. In this story we have demonstrated two important factors in the building of character—the character of the teacher, which is the most important, and a knowledge of the methods and channels by which character may be developed. "Conduct," says Mr. Sharp, "is determined by the influence of contagion as by nothing else in the world." R. SHARP discusses punishment and says that if properly administered it is not brutal. It tends to awaken in the child a sense of the seriousness of his act. He must be made to feel that he has trampled upon the rights of others, then he 551 may feel truly repentant. "Moral habits should not be merely outer conformity because the public demands it, but rather an inner loyalty to the moral ideal.... When we conform because we have to, we are likely to react against it when we acquire freedom." When athletes go back to the habit of smoking when the training season is over, it is apparent that they abstained to keep a place on the team, not from any moral ideal. Conflict with opposing forces is always involved in moral training. It is met at home and at school. Children must learn that much of the work of the world is drudgery, and it is their job to have enthusiasm for the tasks they dislike as well as for the tasks they enjoy. James M. Barrie says, "The secret of happiness is not in doing what one likes, but rather in liking what one has to do." Parents sometimes question the advisability of girls spending time on mathematics; but though it may never be used in life, the fact that they have met an intellectual difficulty and mastered it will give them strength to meet other difficulties in life. "The world's fundamental need is integrity or trustworthiness in_ its many forms," and yet cheating in our schools has become so common that it is a real problem. It will never be solved until we have created among our students what the author calls a "moral revulsion" against dishonesty. He lists the fundamental aims of moral education to be a knowledge of what is right, the desire to do right, and the ability to act right. We do not always do right when we know what is right. Mere 552 knowledge is not enough unless we can develop along with it a love of right. This can be developed in precisely the same way as a love of literature or art is developed—by proper criticism, which in literature means studying style, character drawing, and other things unnoticed by the untrained reader. It is the same with morals. Without training we fail to see life as it is. Only in times of death and tragedy do we seem to see life in its reality. When we have learned that "murder, theft, lying, breach of contract, injustice, are injuries to others, and that carelessness, laziness, want of pity, lack of public spirit fail to make others happier and better," we have taken an important step in good conduct. Thomas Arnold once _ wrote, "When I look around upon boys and men, there seems to me some one point of quality which distinguishes really noble persons from ordinary ones. It seems to me to be moral thoughtfulness." This can be developed only by a study of human life. ISTORY, literature, and biography are important channels through which we may study human life and through which ethics may be taught. History teaches us that there are both good and bad men in the world, that "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." Athens gained her independence and liberty, but when she denied it to other groups over which she had power, her fall came. "The fall of Athens and of Napoleon were due to the want of integrity, justice, and humanity," all three of which are essential to moral character. "The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 personalities which exhibit strength of character and devotion to duty arouse our admiration, thus awakening the desire to act in like manBuCiR "We: "Development of character must grow out of the story of the race. It can be done by good teaching— in other words, vivid presentation and a scientific spirit, the spirit which seeks for cause and effects. The best teaching involves strict adherence to truths. But truth involves balance." For example, "An accurate picture of Carlyle's quarrels with his wife is not a true impression of his life as a whole, but a false one." The parent or teacher without this sense of proportion will not accomplish her purpose. "Literature is more concrete than history, arousing more admiration and enthusiasm. The failure of Macbeth brings the truth of the fact that the wage of sin is death more effectively than the annals of the fall of Athens. For the supreme picture of black pessimism yoked with the possession of power, wealth, assurance of fame, and bits of colored glass for which the average man will barter his soul, we must go, not to pages of history, but to the last act of this play." The power to put oneself in the place of others lies at the very foundation of the moral life. Good literature does this very thing. "Biography combines many advantages of history and literature. It, more than any other study, can lead us to realize that right doing involves not the weakness of the will, but, on the contrary, strength, and that, as in Lincoln, strength is compatible with warm affections and a charity and power of forgiveness that may SOME LITERARY FRIENDS make their possessor loved and revered even by his enemies in defeat. It may train us to -recognize how difficult it is to read the motives of men and then pass judgment upon them. "H{ASTORY, literature and biography are valuable, but they cannot provide sufficient material for training in the power to distinguish right from wrong and how to deal with temptations.... The Golden Rule can be employed to untie many ethical knots.... It is the effect we seek to produce upon human welfare that determines whether an act is right or wrong. "What, then, are the values of life, and how can they be attained?... Boys and girls are apt to ignore fundamental things; to underestimate the value of some and overestimate others. We must make them, somehow, feel that it pays to resist evil, to stand for what is right, to be industrious and to meet the problems of life with courage. Satisfaction in life has a beneficial effect upon character, tending to develop a kindly feeling toward one's fellow men; dissatisfaction and disappointment tend to produce feelings of self-pity, envy, and hatred. The pursuit of the least satisfying goods— comfort, social position, 'success,' wealth, et cetera—is the source of the greater part of wrongdoing in the world. The most valuable things in life are non-competitive. The possession of some of the most precious things is open to man in proportion as he is pure in heart and unselfish in deed." 553 In the teaching of conduct to the very young, story telling is important, because in this form moral principles can be understood by them. Let us not forget to use true incidents; but legends and _ fables, too, embodying fundamental truths are always valuable. "Books are windows opening out into the world. "They show us life beyond our experience, broadening our outlook, and arousing in the mind of the child the desire to be a member of the world's great order of chivalry.... As parents we want to help our children to do a little better than we did. This does not mean that we consider ourselves masters of the art; we merely feel that our experience has helped us to find an answer to some of their problems. "For ordinary purposes the meaning of the Golden Rule is sufficient to teach a child he has done wrong. This at least serves as a foundation.... The old-fashioned home where members worked as a unit for the welfare of all, and which schooled them in self-control, is gone. The instruments of character-building left to us are: personal influence, membership in a_healthy-minded group, moral training in its various forms, and the training of the mind to moral thoughtfulness. If we use them conscientiously and with due reflection our children will rise up and call us blessed." Quotations used by permission of the Bobbs-Merrill Company, publishers of Education for Character. Woteds. FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENTS AND SOCIALS Palmyra Stake (Spanish Fork, Utah) ALMYRA STAKE, of which Mrs. Phoebe I. Markham is stake Relief Society president, held a closing social June 3 at the Palamor Pavilion in Spanish Fork for all Relief Society members in the stake. There were 500 members present. The oldest and youngest members in attendance received a gift. They were Mary Taylor of the Fourth Ward and Harriet M. Davis of the Salem Ward, both 88 years of age, and Helen Hill of the Lakeshore Ward, 19 years old. Each of the nine wards in the stake participated in the program. The number presented by the Spanish Fork First Ward was a pageant, "The Spirit of Motherhood," with the characters portraying Mother Eve, Mother of Moses, Mary — Mother of Jesus, Pioneer Mother, and the Modern Mother. Beautiful vocal and instrumental music added to the impressiveness of the scenes and readings. 'The pageant was presented under the direction of the ward enlistment committee with Anna B. Poulson as chairman, and Ann S. Nelson representing the ward presidency. Ida Anderson is - the president of this ward Relief Society. CAST OF PAGEANT "THE SPIRIT OF MOTHERHOOD" Spanish Fork First Ward, Palmyra Stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD OLDEST AND YOUNGEST MEMBERS PRESENT HONORED AT PALMYRA STAKE SOCIAL Sitting, left to nght, Mary Taylor and Harriet M. Davis, each 88 years old. Standing, Helen Hill, 19 years old. Central States Mission (Independence, Missouri) ARY EDNA BUTLER, secretary-treasurer of the Oklahoma City Branch Relief Society, sent the following interesting report of the two events held in honor of the organization's ninety-ninth anniversary: "Tuesday, March 11,. The eighteen members enrolled in this branch met for a delightful luncheon and program, where each lady costumed to represent one of the eighteen charter members of the Relief Society. 'These costumes are shown by the accompanying picture. "The annual birthday social, March 17, was unique, inasmuch as our Relief Society was entertained in its anniversary patty by the Priesthood quorums of the branch. The highlights of the social were the banquet and dance both held in the 555 Venetian Room of the Y. W. C. A. The tables were beautifully decorated with the Relief Society colors of blue and gold, as were the printed programs. 'The program, also arranged by members of the Priesthood, was very entertaining and encouraging to the audience, which numbered fifty-four." Dagmar Patterson is the president of the Relief Society in this branch, and James A. Cullimore is branch president. Inglewood Stake (Inglewood, California ) HONORING the ninety-ninth birthday of the organization of the Relief Society, the Inglewood Stake Relief Society was hostess Friday, March 14, at a_ get-together luncheon and party at the stake house. Following the luncheon, skits were presented by each of the seven ward Relief Societies in the stake. The idea for serving the luncheon was unique in that each guest brought a daintily prepared and delicious lunch in a box, with her own OKLAHOMA CITY BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Costumed to represent the 18 charter members of Relief Society. Vs 556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 INGLEWOOD STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY name inside. 'These lunches were placed in a group, and each of the women selected a lunch and retired to her own ward table which had been decorated to correspond with the skit each ward was to present. After eating lunch, it became the duty of each guest to look up the lady who had prepared her lunch and thank her. This proved an excellent way of becoming acquainted and caused much merriment. The very constructive theme for the day was, "Ideas and Ways to Increase Relief Society Membership," and was carried out by most of the wards in their skits and table decorations. 'The Inglewood Ward won the prize for the best table decoration. Carrying out the theme of their skit on nutrition, this table was decorated with horns of plenty containing colorful fruits and vegetables. Santa Monica Ward won the prize for the best skit, with its dramatic presentation of the founding of the Church and the organization of the Relief Society. Continuity for the skit was written by Clarissa Claridge of Santa Monica Ward. Approximately 150 Relief Society members were present. Josephine Barlow Prestwich is the president of the Relief Society in the Inglewood Stake. Blaine Stake (Fairfield, Idaho) LORENCE S. HART, secretarytreasurer of the Jerome Ward Relief Society, of which Elizabeth Wray is president, submitted a report of the recent program honoring its charter members, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Four charter members, whose combined ages equal 324 years, were guests of honor at a meeting of the Jerome Ward Relief Society. A specially arranged program paid tribute to Annie Thompson, 78, Mary Blunt, 84, Phena Sidwell, 82, and Nancy McJunkin, 80. Tribute was paid to the honored guests and each was presented with a corsage. Similar tokens were sent to Kate Folkman, Dina Karren and Mrs. James Humphries, who were homebound. Refreshments were served following the program. Our Relief Society has been organized twenty-seven years." The Blaine Stake Relief Society president is Eva Pond. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Washington Stake (Washington, D. C.) ANNA LAURA STOHL CANNON, president of the Chevy Chase Ward Relief Society, has reported the very successful musicale and reception held by the ward Saturday evening, March 22, 1941, in observance of the ninety-ninth anniversary of the organization of the Reli ef Society. Well accepted by the audience as a fine addition to the excellent musical program, was a group of readings—"'The Story of Wheat." The first of these readings dealt with Joseph in Egypt, based on Genesis, 41:1-54, and was read by Edith Dinwoodey. The second section, entitled, "Emmeline B. Wells and the Relief Society," was read by Alice Wilkinson from text compiled by Olga W. Snell especially for this occasion. 'The text was based on articles on the Relief Society grainsaving activities written by Annie Wells Cannon, former member of the General Board of Relief Society, Sw and appearing in the Relief Society Magazine, February, 1915, page 51, and on other articles dealing with this activity and appearing in the Relief Society Magazine, October, 1940, and in The Improvement Era, March, i941, page 142. Participating in the musicale was the Chevy Chase Ward choir, with Ani Pearson, director, and Frances Berrett, accompanist, and vocal and instrumental soloists, Afton Margetts, Ellen Neilson Barnes and Betty Langlois. The invocation was offered by Louise. C. Bennion, then president of the Washington Stake Relief Society. Hyrum Stake (Hyrum, Utah) HE following report of the observance of the ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society on March 17 by the two Relief Societies in Wellsville was submitted by Bessie H. Jones, president of Wellsville Second Ward: "We were hostesses. To our sister ward, Wellsville First Ward. All appointments were carried out in our Relief Society colors, BANQUET HELD MARCH 17, 1941, TWO WELLSVILLE. WARDS 558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 SINGING MOTHERS OF WELLSVILLE SECOND WARD WHO PRESENTED OPERETTA, "FRIENDSHIP, OR IN MOZART'S TIME" blue and gold. Our program was furnished by the Singing Mothers, including presentation by a group from the Second Ward of an operetta, entitled, 'Friendship, or in Mozart's Time.' A banquet, under the able direction of our refreshment committee, was served to 210. Toasts were given to old and new members." Minnie A. Miller is the Hytum Stake Relief Society president. Nevada Stake (Ely, Nevada) HOPE BROADBENT, first counselor and stake centennial chairman, has submitted the following details of an activity planned to serve both as a memorial to the recently retired stake Relief Society _ president, Anna M. Aljets, and as a nucleus for future stake and ward anniversary programs on March 17, and for the coming centennial observances in 1942. 'The plan for this activity developed from the general desire of the wards to join in presenting a token of appreciation to Mrs. Aljets, from her interest in the preparation and preservation of the Relief Society histories of the wards, and from the desire of the stake board to have recorded the impressive and beautiful faith-promoting stories of Relief Society women. The plan developed by the stake board was for the wards to prepare two loose-leaf scrapbooks—one for presentation to Mrs. Aljets and one to be retained by the stake board, and added to periodically. In arranging for each ward to prepare its individual pages for these two scrapbooks, the stake board also suggested that each ward prepare and continue to preserve its own ward Relief Society history. The stake board provided each of the wards with pages 11% inches by 151% inches in size for use in preparing their individual material. The tentative plan of contents outlined by the stake board for each ward was as follows: (1) Organization—date of organization and reorganizations, pictures and names of officers, biographical histories, achievements and personal stories: (2) History—relating to the ward Relief Society both before and NOTES FROM THE FIELD after inclusion in the Nevada Stake, (3) Activity — such as successful parties, Magazine and membership activities, bazaars, dinners, beautification and other special activities sponsored by the ward Relief Society, to be accompanied by drawings and pictures; (4) Welfare work—both Relief Society activities, as such, and assistance by the Society in the interest of the Church welfare program; (5) Reminiscence—including references to visits, experiences, and associations with ward and stake Relief Society workers; (6) Faith-promoting stories —collected especially from the older members of the Society and signed personally by them wherever possible. The wards adopted the plan wholeheartedly, using their own ingenuity in collecting and arranging the material, with the result that each ward record for this scrapbook represented the work of many individuals and included stories, experiences, original verse, songs, pictures and illustrations. The completed and assembled scrapbook for Mrs. Aljets was presented to her on the evening of March 8, 1941, at a well-arranged program honoring all past officers of the Nevada Stake Relief Society, when special tribute was paid to each of the three past presidents and a pledge of support was given to the present president, Mrs. Nellie C. Brunson. The continuity of the tribute to the past officers was adapted from "My Relief Society Tapestry," by Mary Grant Judd, Relief Society Magazine, March, 1940, page 165, with the poem, "Your Tapestry," by Lucy H. Nielson, Relief Society 599 Magazine, October, 1938, page 683, forming the introduction. A beautiful verse was selected for tribute to each president, portraying her outstanding virtue, followed by an appropriate hymn, also emphasizing this virtue, sung as a solo. During the musical tribute, a lovely corsage made by the stake work-and-business leader was presented to each president in turn. The audience, which filled the auditorium, was profoundly impressed by the beauty and appropriateness of the program. Representatives were present from all but three of the most distant branches, some of the women having traveled over 200 miles to attend. The success and value of this project are summarized in the following words from Mrs. Broadbent's statement: "Certainly the compilation of our scrapbook histories measured up to our expectations. Never have we experienced such united effort and such deep joy and satisfaction in the results of our efforts. The scrapbook is lovely to look at, but beneath the appearance is a heart and soul that stirs the reader to great depths because it represents the life of the Nevada Stake Relief Society up to the present time. Before we start on the second century in the life of the Relief Society, we have the satisfaction of knowing that our record up to date is well written and preserved." Weiser Stake (Weiser, Idaho) THE accompanying picture shows the cast of the pageant, "The Gate Beautiful," which was published in the Relief Society Magazine, April, 1935, page 226, and which was the main feature of the 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 "GATE BEAUTIFUL." Ei 2 a | A 2 eS f CAST OF RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT, WEISER WARD Relief Society anniversary program presented by the Weiser Ward, of which Laura C. Dorius is president. Musical numbers and a talk on the history of Relief Society were other features of the program, which was followed by a dance. The Weiser Ward was honored in having Edith Brown, Weiser Stake Relief Society president, as the reader for the pageant. Beaver Stake (Beaver, Utah) B ERTHA. T. SWINDLEHURST, stake secretary-treasurer, sent the following report: "On June 17, 1941, our stake held one of the most successful spring conferences we have ever had in Beaver Stake. _Each ward was well represented to receive the general instructions given. At the beginning of 1941, the stake adopted the follow. Ing slogan: '100 Percent Visiting Teaching in Each Ward of Beaver Stake This Year." We are happy to report that up to date we have reached our goal. "One of our board members, Mae C. White, wrote a pageant depicting the history of the organization of the Relief Society work in Beaver Stake. This was presented to the 176 persons present, and it was thoroughly enjoyed by all. We also prepared a display of pioneer relics, and at the close of the program light refreshments were served to all." Lacy R. Nowers is Beaver Stake Relief Society president. California Mission (Los Angeles, California ) MINNIE A. BLOOD, president of the Relief Societies in the California Mission, forwarded a very interesting report of the observance of the ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society in the Bakersfield Relief Society, written by Millie M. Houldridge, president, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Enclosed is a_ picture of the March 17 celebration of the Bakersfield Relief Society. The ladies are seated at tables decorated to represent a particular month. As a feature of the program, a speaker at each table told why the particular month NOTES FROM THE FIELD r_presented by that table was famous. The table for March—Relief Society anniversary month—was the special table. The person whose birthday was nearest March 17 opened gifts brought to the Relief Society, and the person whose birth. Day was next nearest cut the large blue and gold birthday cake seen in the foreground. "Our very special guest, seated in the center front, was Hannah Miller, who died a week later, on March 24, in her ninety-seventh year. She was born in Wales, November 21, 1844, and moved to Australia when quite young, her father having been sent there by the King on a mining expedition. When she was ten years of age she was baptized in the ocean. Two years later she and her brother were sent with a group of Latter-day Saints to the United States, landing on the West Coast and staying in San Bernardino, California, until President Brigham Young called the Saints to Utah. She walked with the train of pioneers across the desert 561 and mountain paths to Salt Lake." In order to be with her brother, she returned to California in about 1875, after the death of her first husband and her son, and resided there for the remainder of her life. She had charge of the village postoffice until a few months before her death. "Another special guest at the anniversary celebration was Millicent Curtis Smith. She was called to be the first Relief Society president in Bakersfield, serving for over seven vears as president, and then as secretary for several years. She is seventyfour years of age and still a faithful Relief Society member. "We have two other sisters who were Charter members in the Bakersfield Relief Society, which was organized November 30, 1919. They are Maude Allen Bunting and Elizabeth Tuckett Brimhall. Mrs. Brimhall's great grandmother, Sophia Packard, was at the meeting on March 17, 1842, when the Relicf Societv was organized." ANNIVERSARY LUNCHEON, MARCH 17, 1941, BAKERSFIELD RELIEF SOCIETY 562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Blackfoot Stake (Blackfoot, Idaho) ON May, 13, 1941, living past presidents of the Blackfoot Second Ward Relief Society were honored at a social by the officers and the members of the ward Relief Society. Standing, left to right, Cecil Clifford Spindler, now of Sacramento, California; Jane Harward, Salt Lake City; Emma Merkley, Blackfoot; Jane Terry, Salt Lake City; Ida Eskelsen, Blackfoot; Afton Johnston, Blackfoot; Sarah Marshall, Blackfoot. Sitting, left to right, Mary E. Jacobs, Blackfoot; Flora Johnston, Blackfoot; Kathrine Heese, Blackfoot, first president; Viola Goates, Blackfoot, present president. Each guest was presented with a hand-painted memory book. The stake Relief Society president is Mary S. Bills. Bs. PAST PRESIDENTS OF SOUTH SEVIER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Left to mght: Matilda B. Ross, Nina Hanson, Ada Anderson, Anetta Christensen, Jetta Marquardson South Sevier Stake (Elsinore, Utah) South Sevier Stake Relief Society N interesting program and social president and board. A unique feawas given at the Elsinore Recreture of this entertainment was the ation Hall, May 17, 1941, by the presence of all former stake Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD Society presidents, who were paid lovely tributes and presented with beautiful corsages. The main feature of the program was a pageant, "Mothers of Our Nation," by Mabel S. Harmer. This was taken from the Relief Society Magazine for May, 1935, page 308. A group of thirty Singing Mothers furnished the music. A reception followed. Two lovely girls in formal dresses of Relief Society colors presided at the refreshment table, which was beautiful with its English lace cloth, its crystal candleholders with blue candles, and its large crystal 563 bowl with yellow and white snapdragons placed on a reflector. Refreshments were daintily served to neatly 300. The past presidents honored on this occasion were: Matilda B. Ross, of Los Angeles, the first president; Nina Hanson, of Salt Lake City, the second; and Ada Anderson and Annetta Christensen, of Elsinore, the third and fourth, respectively. Since this party, the stake Relief Society board was reorganized on June 22, 1941, with Jennie Brown succeeding Mrs. Jetta Marquardson as stake Relief Society president. —<—- DEATH Anna H. Michie All down through time's vast, endless reaching hall Mankind of Death has harbored inward fear, Has grieved that friends must ever heed the call, Has mourned the parting of some loved one dear— In awe at this great, ruthless reaper's stealth; Found naught can stay his hand—not will, nor wealth, Not poverty, nor love, nor haughty pride; But ever does he come, and year on year He searches out his victims where they bide, And soon or late with Death we all must ride. Ah, could we but forget tradition's fright And only glimpse the truth beyond the veil, Nor harbor secret dread of coming plight, But Death's cold grasp with reassurance hail! "Tis but a quickening of the human soul, Its homing to its well-earned cherished goal; And Death, as thought, is not the ruthless thing— "Tis you who sets the heights your soul shall scale; To you the door of endless progress swings; You mount the steps when Death your message brings. Lt SSON —_—$——— FN Sheology and Sestimony Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage Lesson 2 CHAPTER 2, Gop AND THE Hoty TRINITY (Tuesday, November 4, 1941) I. Lesson Aim: To lead the class members to a greater awareness of the reality of the Godhead and to an understanding of the true nature of its personnel. II. Approach to the Lesson: The class leader might place herself in the position of an investi- _ gator of the Gospel, and as such III. She would ask questions of the class members which would assist her in arriving at a correct understanding of the nature of the Godhead. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the class members would defend, explain, and justify their belief and faith in the Godhead. The class leader, if she feels that the class members have not been sufficiently motivated by the. Previous general class assignment, could give questions to individuals in advance of the actual presentation of the lesson and ask them to prepare an answer. The questions and _ projects listed below under each major division of the lesson are merePage 564 ly suggestive, and may be utilized to promote discussion. MAJOR DIVISIONS OF THE A. The reality LESSON of the existence of God (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 29-39) ib, Show that the exercise of faith is dependent upon a knowledge of the existence of God.. Give examples from your own experience to show that a belief in God is natural and necessary among humankind. What is the general belief of mankind as to the existence of God? What are the areas from which mankind draws its evidence to prove the existence of God? Which of these evidences appears to you to be the most important? Why?. Summarize the evidence upon which your belief in the existence of God is founded.. The Godhead—a Trinity (Articles of Faith, James E. 'Talmage, PP 39-42) 1. How can you account for the sectarian view of God, with its emphasis on immateriality and three Gods in one? In what sense is the Godhead a LESSON DEPARTMENT ''trinity"—that is, a unity of three personages? 3. Explain the interrelation between the three personages in the Godhead. (See note 11 in Appendix 2 in the last part of the "Articles of Faith." This note should be considered in the presentation of the lesson and might be assigned to a class member to be given as a special report.) 4. What was the unique contribution that Joseph Smith made to the theology of the world in regard to the Godhead? C. Divine Attributes of the Godhead (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 42-44) 1. Summarize the most important of the Divine attributes as attested by scripture. 2. Which of the attributes possessed by God give you most comfort in times of stress and sorrow? Explain. D. Non-Mormon Views of the Godhead (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 44-48) 1. Have some member of the class who joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a convert relate the change which took 565 place in her concept of God after she came in contact with the Restored Gospel. Through the study of the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, many beautiful passages of scripture will be revealed. Class leaders should be alert to familiarize the class members with these choice quotations. | Where there is a blackboard in the classroom one or more of these passages of scripture might be written on the blackboard before the beginning of the class period. 'Thought-provoking passages of scripture are found in this lesson. Two such follow: "For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God." (Hebrews 3:4) "O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out.' (Romans 11:33) The class leader at the conclusion of the lesson discussion based on the above questions could profitably give a summarization of the major points. ES Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 2 Prayer as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 4, 1941) PRAYER, in general, is communion with God. It is a way of knowing His will, of acquiring insight into spiritual truth, of keeping in tune with the Infinite; it is a source of spiritual power and mental peace, an expression of faith in Him. Jesus in Gethsemane found prayer a fountain of strength for the terrible ordeal which he was to undergo on the cross. "Men ought always to pray, and not to faint,' Christ told his disciples when he was on the earth in 566 the flesh (Luke 18:1), and in our own time he said to the Prophet Jos-. Eph Smith, "Therefore, let the Church [obviously its separate members] take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation." (Doctrine and Covenants, 20:33) In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus showed his Apostles how to pray. 'This was in answer to a question by them. "After this manner therefore pray ye." 'Then he gave the most famous prayer in history. It contains but sixty-four words, and is so simple that even a child can understand it. Forty nine of its sixty-four words have only one syllable. He told them to pray to "our Father which art in heaven." All mankind are His children, no matter when they lived or where, whether their skin is black or yellow or white, whether they are ignorant or learned. In our Church we are instructed to pray "in the name of Jesus Christ." The phrase "hallowed be Thy name" implies not only that we hold God's name in reverence, but that we seek to honor him in our way of living, as a son does his earthly father when he lives a good life. In this prayer we are enjoined to pray that the will or law of God shall be obeyed here as it is in heaven, that His kingdom shall be established and maintained on earth. This phrase is full of meaning to us. Jesus says here that we are to ask for our daily bread. This means that it is proper to pray for material things— food, clothes, shelter, and other material necessities. We should not, however, forget that there are things higher than the physical. We are instructed to pray for forgiveness of sins, but we can obtain forgiveness RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 only on condition that we forgive others. It is important to remember this. (The phrase "lead us not into temptation," given in the King James' translation of the Bible, is given by the Prophet Joseph in his Inspired Revision of the Bible as, "Suffer us not to be led into temptation.") In the last sentence of the prayer we are required to acknowledge in humility the power and the kingdom and the glory that is beyond our comprehension. "Be thou humble," said the Lord to us in this age, "and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give answer to thy prayer." And again: "Pray in secret and vocally and in public." The Prophet counseled the brethren, and the advice is equally applicable to the sisters: "Seek to know God in your closets.... Follow the directions of the Book of Mormon, and pray over, and for your families, your cattle, your flocks, your herds, your corn, and all things that you possess; ask the blessing of God upon all your labors, and everything that you engage in." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 247) Questions for Discussion 1. Why is prayer an expression of faith in God? 2. What should be one's attitude if he sees no answer to his prayer? 3. Why do you think the disciples of Jesus asked him to teach them to pray? 4. What in this lesson would be a good starting point for discussing the subject in the home? 5. Discuss Bishop Le Grand Richards' statement, "It is better to pray with your children than for them." 6. Read Alexis Carroll, M. D., "The Power of Prayer," Readers' Digest, March, 1941. Work-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 2 Judging Qualities in Materials (Tuesday, November 11, 1941) FOR many years the study and buying of textiles was comparatively easy with only the four major fibers—cotton, linen, silk, and wool —to be recognized. They were usually found alone and not in combination with other fibers. Today, however, we wonder what the coming years will bring with the hundreds 'of new fibers, mixtures, and finishes being offered in clothing materials, the most prominent of which is rayon. In order to judge materials and to choose those best suited to one's needs, it is necessary to have an understanding of the factors affecting price and durability and a knowledge of the various fibers and the type of care required by each to make them render maximum service. Price alone does not indicate how well a piece of material will wear, but if the price runs below or above a certain amount, one should question the cause. For this reason, it is well to know the usual price for reliable fabrics. As a general rule, new-style goods are more expensive because of the risk involved in dealing with them. Many expensive materials are not durable but have been made for appearance only, strength being sacrificed to do so. However, in the purchase of any article, the amount of money to be expended is one of the governing factors in selection, Width of material is an important factor in the price of any material. Often a wide fabric is more economical than a narrow one, because it cuts to better advantage. Simple habits and tests will always be of help to the consumer. Of these, the first is to read any labels attached to the material, any labeling on the selvage of the material, and any labeling on the bolt around which the material is wound. If any terms are not understood, ask the clerk for information concerning them. Watch carefully for knots or defective places in the weave; watch for soiled edges along the fold or on the ends of the bolt. Hold material to the light to detect thick and thin places. 'The more even the yarns and the more balanced the thread count (the same number of lengthwise and crosswise threads) the more wear one can usually expect. Very loose weaves or materials with long floats will catch and pull easily. Some materials may have heavy cords running through them which will result in a splitting of the material. The strength of the weave may be tested by scraping the fingernail over the cloth or by running a tuck in the cloth with a pin and pulling away from the pin on both sides of the tuck. The threads should not separate easily if the weave is strong. Another test is to grasp the cloth between the thumb and finger Page 567 568 of each hand with about an inch of space between the thumbs. Press downward and outward and note whether the cloth stretches out of shape easily or is firm. Sometimes the amount of starch sizing may be determined by rubbing the material between the hands or tearing to see if starch flies out. Examination of the yarn will often tell something about the wearing quality of the cloth. Untwisted yarns catch and pull out. Tightlytwisted yarns usually produce a fabric that can stand hard wear; however, they may become shiny. Fancy yams are often made with knots, nubs, or other irregularities. The fabric may look strong, but may catch and wear off. 'To know the character of the yarn, the cloth should be raveled both ways and the yarn untwisted. If the fabric is napped, rub it between the balls of the fingers. If the nap rubs away, the material will not give satisfactory wear. Many materials have finishing processes applied to them to increase their value or to decrease the amount of care that is needed; for example, sanforizing to prevent - shrinking; vitalizing, tebilizing, or martinizing to make materials crease-resistant; duralizing or bellmanizing to give permanent stiffness. All of these and other processes which render materials color fast, needlized, moisture-repellent, fireproof, air conditioned, mildew, moth and bacteria proof are being applied to materials. Many of these finishes are permanent, but others wash out with the first washing. Watch for information concerning each. If the finish is guaranteed permanent and proves ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 not to be, return the merchandise. Many manufacturers are placing such information on the label as thread count, tensile strength, and resistance to abrasion. 'This is a distinct help since thread count alone does not determine the wearing quality of materials. "(Guaranteed high quality," "complete satisfaction," "perfect workmanship," "preshrunk," and "color fast" tell little. "Guaranteed all wool," "guaranteed not to shrink," and "guaranteed fast color" are more definite, but not definite enough. All wool does not tell the quality of the wool, nor fast color whether fast to wear, sun, laundering, or perspiration. Better labels are those which say, "Sanforized: guaranteed not to shrink more than one percent," or "guaranteed sun and tub fast." Labels mean mote if the manufacturer's name is attached. Read labels, analyze materials, and buy those which best fit your needs. If you want a cheap material, buy it, but do not pay as high a price for it as if it were good material. Know as nearly as possible what you are getting and the care it will need to give maximum value. Suggested Activities 1. Bring to meeting as many kinds ot material as possible. Know the price of each if possible. Analyze the materials as to wearing qualities. Compare the various prices charged for the same kind of materials. See if you can determine whether one piece should wear better than another. Can you account for the difference in price? 'Try simple tests to see if they help you to judge values. 2. Bring labels found on materials. Analyze them as to content. If there are terms you do not understand, try to find the meaning of them. (Sometimes sales clerks can offer help.) LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. Think about and list information that you would like to find on a piece of material when buying it. Because of the lack of available space in the Relief Society Magazine, the General 569 Board has sent to each stake a list of refences in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders. A, Bl erate Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 2 Humor—Its Meaning, Principles Governing it, and Mediums of Expression (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) "The essence of humor is human kindliness. It is this element in humor, which has grown from a primitive beginning to higher forms, which lends to humor the character of a leading factor in human progress and which is destined still to enhance its utility to mankind."—Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics: 1. Brief summary of last lesson 2. What humor is 3. Principles governing humor 4. Words as a medium of humor Review of Previous Lesson In the first lesson of this course the relationship between literature and life was presented, and the fact was pointed out that since literature is a record of life as it is and a projection of life as we would like to have it, it has many phases and many values. Humor is an important factor in life; hence, it is significant in the field of literature. Reasons such as the following were presented to show why it is desirable for Relief Society members to study humor in their literature course this year: 1. A varied program of study is desirable for Relief Society members, and since serious literature has been considered for a long time, a change is thought advisable. 2. We are living in a time. When we need relief from tension caused by conditions and events in the world today. 3. A study of humor should serve to help relieve that tension and aid in the cultivation of a desirable sense of humor. 4. Humor is a fundamental part of literature and as such should have a place in any educational program. What Humor Is Humor is an elusive word, difficult to define. Originally it meant wetness, and some of that original meaning still survives in such words as humidity and humid. It early had a special meaning in relation to health and medicine; the well-being of an individual was thought to depend upon the liquids or humors flowing through the body. A man's health and vitality, it was believed, depended upon the proper distribution and the natural activities of these fluids. If all went well, a man was in "good humor." If a disease attacked him, he was in "ill-humor" or "out of humor." It was the work 570 of the doctor to keep people in "good humor." In time, the humors were believed to govern the complexion and the disposition as well as the health of the individual. If a man had an abundance of blood he had a florid complexion and a sanguine disposition. (Sanguine early meant red like blood, and we still use the term sanguine to describe a person of cheerful disposition, just as we use phlegmatic or bilious to designate certain types. ) Literature of the Middle Ages reflects this old meaning of the word humor. Chaucer has the hen, Perotelete, say, in substance, to her husband, Chaunticleer, "Certainly, this dream which you have had tonight came of too much blood which causes folks to fear in their dreams red flames and great beasts that will bite them; just as the humor of melancholy (black bile) causes many men to cry out in their sleep for fear that black bears and bulls will hurt them or that black devils will take them. Of other humors I could tell you that work woe in man." Based upon this old theory, Ben Jonson in the seventeenth century wrote two social satires which he called, respectively, "Everyman in His Humor," and "Everyman out of His Humor." In time the word shifted to mean caprice. So Shakespeare uses it in "The Merchant of Venice." Shylock says, "Why I rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive 3000 ducats? I'll not answer that, but say it is my humor." And so gradually the word came to signify an incongruity which caused laughter as it does today. There are many types of humor, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 ranging from grotesque arrangements of sounds or words to distorted pictures, parodies, burlesques, and so on. Sometimes the humor lies in the situation, as in many of Shakespeare's comedies. An example is found in "The Merry Wives of Windsor." In one scene Falstaff hides in the hamper of soiled clothes from the husband of the woman he is visiting, and is carried away to the laundry. There is also humor in character, frequently arising from incongruous traits in a person, such as absentmindedness in the professor who has his mind so much occupied on abstract thoughts that he walks off with his host's umbrella or, to mention an exaggerated story, pours syrup on his head and scratches his hot cake. Principles Governing Humor | Savages laugh and exult when they destroy their enemies. Scientists declare that humor and laughter had their first expression in the exultation of primitive man over his vanquished foe. Children enjoy the humor of destruction. A broken object often amuses them. Even civilized adults laugh over slapstick comedy based on destruction, such as breaking dishes or furniture. The destruction which provokes mirth is not limited to inanimate objects. When a child, for instance, hears how the cat in Puss in Boots swallows the ogre, he is delighted. He laughs, too, when the selfish wolf in the Three Little Pigs is tricked into the boiling kettle. In this response, the child represents the primitive stage in man's development. In "The Cremation of Sam McGee," Robert W. Service employs this LESSON DEPARTMENT primitive appeal of destruction. In addition, the surprise ending is used —another source of humor. A different theory recognized by early writers is that humor rests on our enjoyment of the discomfort of others mixed with satisfaction that the discomfort is not our own. This source of amusement is seen in comic movies, in newspaper Cartoons, in performances of circus clowns. We can all recall humorous stories and plays of this nature, stories of hen-pecked husbands, of the fat woman on roller skates, of the absent-minded professor. We have laughed at the discomforts of each. Mention has already been made of Shakespeare's "The Merry Wives of Windsor" with its humor of this type. Aristophanes' "The Frogs" gives another classical example in the scene where the master insists on changing costumes with his slave and then is pommeled about to the delight of the servant. This same theory also explains the sense of humor evidenced by the "practical joker." He is highly amused to see another the victim of a ludicrous situation. It might be well, however, if this type of individual would stop to consider whether the situation would appear equally laughable were he the butt of the joke instead of being the perpetrator and amused onlooker. The field of humor from which we may draw is so extensive that it is never necessary to resort to the type of joke which gains its humor as the result of the wounded feelings of another. This is a lesson that children might well be taught. They can be cruel in their thoughtlessness at times. On the other hand, let us not be super-sensitive, but be able 571 to appreciate a harmless joke even though it be on ourselves. The disappointment theory is an explanation of another principle of humor. In this there is a carefully built-up expectation which is frustrated in the end. "The One-Hoss Shay," by Oliver Wendell Holmes, builds up the idea that the shay is going to last forever. The humor rests upon the disappointment which comes when it falls to pieces all at once. Humor is so versatile, appearing in so many shapes, so many garbs, it is so differently seen by different eyes, and judgments so vary that it is difficult to classify; for instance, try to. Classify the following from Mark 'Twain's Innocents Abroad. He tells about a guide in Genoa and Rome. "Our guide said, 'Come wis me, genteelmen—Come! I show you ze letter writing by Christopher Colombo! Ze great Christopher Colombo! He write it himself.' "The doctor laid the document down. 'Why, I've seen boys in American cities only fourteen years old who could write better than that.' "But zis is ze great Christo....' ""T don't care who it is. It is the worst writing I ever saw. We are not fools, by a good deal. If you've got any specimens of penmanship of real merit, trot them out! And if you haven't, drive on!'" Humor has been compared to Proteus, the Greek deity of the water, who could change his form at will. Sometimes humor lies in an apt illusion to a known story or in a pat application of a trivial saying or in the manufacture of an opposite tale. Sometimes, as Leacock points out, "it hides in a sly question or a pert 572 answer or an unusual reason or shrewd intimation. It resides, too, in such figures of speech as irony, hyperbole, metaphor, in imitative looks and gestures. Often we cannot truly tell from where it springs." A writer of three hundred years ago says, "Its ways are unaccountable and inexplicable, being answerable to the numberless ravings of fancy and windings of language. It is, in short, a manner of speaking out of the simple and plain way... Which affecteth and amuseth the fancy... It also procureth delight by gratifying curiosity with its rareness... By diverting the mind from its road of serious thoughts; by instilling gaiety and airiness of spirit... And by seasoning matter otherwise distasteful or insipid with an unusual and thence a grateful tang." Words as a Medium of Humor The earliest humor was in action rather than in words—in pantomimes, facial expressions, bodily contortions. We find it next in drawings and later in words. Words used in an unexpected or incongruous manner cause laughter. Sometimes humor lies in the misspelling of words. So we have unintentional humor. A student writer made a humorous "tragedy" out of a misspelled word. He wrote: "One night while my friend and I were at Yellowstone, we returned to our camp to discover that bears had been there. They had scattered our vitals (victuals) all over the place." Some writers consciously use misspelling to produce the humorous effect desired. This type of humor was widespread in early American literature. Mark Twain employed it in his beginning attempts to be funny, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 though he soon discarded it for more dignified and effective methods. Josh Billings and Artemus Ward maintained this medium throughout their writing careers. Lincoln read to his cabinet one of his favorite passages from Artemus Ward's "The High-handed Outrage at Utica," before he showed them his Emancipation Proclamation. The quotation began: "In the Faul of 1856, I showed my show in Utiky, a trooly grate sitty in the State of New York. The people gave me a cordyal recepshun. 'The press was loud in her prases." Bad grammar is another phase of this medium. In it is shown the exact transcription of what people do say instead of what they should say according to good usage. 'There are wrong tenses, case forms, diction and so on. Of this type of humor Ring W. Lardner was a perfect master. Finley Peter Dunne in his stories about Mr. Dooley combines this with misspelling. "Mr. Dooley on Golf" begins: ""An what's this game in goluf like, I dunnaw... Ye're a good deal in a spoort, Jawnny! Did ye iver thry it?' ""No... I used to roll a hoop onct upon a time, but I'm out of condition now.': "Tt ain't like baseball... An' it ain't like lawn tennis, an' it ain't like forty-five, an' it ain't like canvasback duck or anny other game ye know,' said Mr. Dooley." There are many other means of creating humor out of words. Some of them are the overstatements in hyperboles much found in Mark Twain's Innocents Abroad and in the work of Bill Nye who, for instance, says, "There must be at least 5,000,000,000 rats in the United LESSON DEPARTMENT States; of course, I'm speaking only from memory." Here there is not only exaggeration, but the incongruity of "speaking from memory" about so many rats. Litotes, or understatement, is much used by English writers and Orientals. The humor of E. P. Wodehouse has been characterized as "sustained understatement." James M. Barrie employed this medium in some of his stories; for example, "My Lady Nicotine." Other tricks with words are used effectively by Robert Benchley and Stephen Leacock; for instance, the latter said: "The rejected lover in a wild frenzy of emotion leaped upon his horse and rode away in all directions." Similar to these verbal incongtuities is the following tantalizing quatrain by A. A. Milne: "Yesterday upon the stair, I saw a man who wasn't there; He wasn't there again today. I wish the fool would stay away!" Dickens often employs misuse of words to achieve humor, as does O. Henry, of whom it has been said that one may see in his stories a "perfect glory and riot of verbal forms; no one ever used language as he did. He threw words around in a careless way that has never been equalled or approached." "Humor is the kindly contempla- 573 tion of the incongruities of life and the artistic expression thereof." Problems and Projects 1. Assign such stories as the following to illustrate words as a medium of humor: "Grandma Keeler Gets Grandpa Ready for Sunday School," by Sarah P. Greene; "Mr. Dooley on Reform Candidates," by Finley Peter Dunne; "The Evidence in the Case of Smith vs. Jones," by S. L. Clemens; "Hezekiah Bedott's Opinion," by Frances M. Wicher; "The Real Diary of a Real Boy," by H. A. Shute. (These stories are all in Wit and Humor of America, by Marshall Wilder. ) z. Ask for volunteers to give brief reviews of favorite humorous stories or poems. 3. Give a sketch of the life of Artemus Ward, Bill Nye or Josh Billings, explaining the type of humor each writer employed. 4. Is there some person in your community known for his or her quaint or witty manner of telling things? Give illustrations of this local humor; point out the contribution of such a person to the community. 5. Ask the members to bring in different types of humor and analyze them. Supplementary Readings The Enjoyment of Laughter, Max Eastman. Sixty Years of American Humor, J. L. French. Ue Laughter Library, J. H. Johnson, et al. In Pursuit of Laughter, Agnes Repplier. Written Humor, A, A. Thompson. An Essay of Laughter, James Sully. Fun—Ancient and Modern, Dr. Maurice Davies. Oe Se pessimism, worry and despair, we must depend upon the sun within ourselves.... He who carries his sunshine with him on the journey of life has learned the mastersecret of triumphant living."—Weilferd A. Peterson. 66 HEN the sun in the skies of our world is blotted out by the clouds of fear, Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 2 The Heritage of the Home (Tuesday, November 25, 1941) Lesson Aim: To show that the foundations for successful marriage begin long before the time of marriage; in fact, that they begin within the homes from which the brides and grooms come. WE are married for only a fraction of our life's span, but the success or failure of that fraction depends to a large extent upon what has gone before. Happiness in marriage is the product of years of preparation, conscious or unconscious, whereby the infant is first formed and then molded gradually into a mature personality, capable of the loves and joys of married life. The roots of successful marriage for every man and woman reach deep into his past. Parents should realize that by giving birth to normal, healthy children, and by caring for these children and training them properly, they not only secure greater happiness in their own family lives, but _ they lay the foundations for successful marriage and family life in the generation to come. Someone has said that the home is the cradle of civilization, and this is very likely true. Most authorities feel that of all social institutions the home is the most basic, for it is here that life begins and grows, and it is here that habits are formed and that character develops. A good home is the most valuable heritage that man can have. Being Well Born The heritage of the home begins Page 574 with the biological and social backgrounds of the family lines involved. Being well born is the first and perhaps the most important thing in a good heritage, and it implies being born in a family that is both biologically and socially sound. Our biological heritage depends upon the kind of body and mind that was handed on to us from our forefathers through inheritance. Some people are handicapped from the start because of a weak body or an inferior mind, or because of a predisposition to such things as epilepsy and insanity. Such individuals are not well born, and their chances for successful adjustment in life and happiness in marriage are consequently much poorer than those who are normal and healthy from the start. When choosing a mate for marriage young people should realize that upon their choice will depend not only their own happiness, but the happiness of their children and of their children's children. Human traits may, of course, be modified and improved to some extent during life, but the basic capacities and tendencies of human nature are set by heredity and can be altered or changed but little. It is important, then, that we study family backgrounds and marry into only those LESSON DEPARTMENT families that seem to be free from the blights of hereditary weaknesses; it is important to do this if we would see that our children get a good start toward successful marriage by being well born. But being well born means more than being born of a sound hereditary stock. It means also being born into a family of industry, virtue, and high ideals; it means being born with a sound and healthy social, as well as biological, heritage. 'There are too many families that fall short of the mark in this respect. They may be able to bring children into the world who are both normal and healthy, but if they haven't the desire or the knowledge to properly care for and train these children, and if they, therefore, fail to give them the things so necessary to successful adjustment in life, they have failed miserably in their task. It means a lot to be born into a good family, a family with pure blood, a clean name, high ideals, and a courageous spirit. Latter-day Saints, for the most part, can feel fortunate because of the rich cultural and religious heritage that is passed on to them from generation to generation through the home. It means a lot to be well born. Personality Development Of the many functions performed by the home, personality development is among the most important; in fact, there are some who would say that it is the major function. It is true, of course, that a good home is valuable to society in other ways as well: it provides a: channel for the procreation of the race; it gives emotional satisfactions and happiness to the husband and wife, et 575 cetera. It could do all of these, however, and still fall far short of its goal. The home is the nursery of character, the seed-bed of all that is good in personality, and unless it is successful in its job of passing on this rich heritage to the children who are a part of it, it will have failed in its purpose. The human infant at birth is probably the most helpless of all infants. Furthermore, its period of infancy is longer than the corresponding period among other living creatures. These differences between. Man and animal present to man both a challenge and an opportunity. The challenge lies in the responsibility of caring for and training the young, and the opportunity lies in the possibility of learning and developing and advancing far beyond the animals. Animals are controlled largely by instincts and are unable to go much beyond them; man, on the other hand, is controlled largely by habits, and through the formation and re-formation of these habits is able to progress eternally. The helpless and plastic condition of the human baby, together with its relatively long period of infancy, makes possible the molding and building of personality. But it also places a tremendous responsibility upon the home, for unless the proper habits and attitudes are instilled into the lives of the children during the early formative years that they are in the home, bad habits and attitudes will take their places and the children will start through life with personalities that are warped. Home atmosphere is likely the most important consideration in personality development. If the atmosphere is healthy and stimulating, 576 the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous; but if, on the other hand, the atmosphere is clouded by pessimism and quarreling and hate, the lives of those who experience it cannot hope to be normal. We have all seen examples of this very thing— lives made sweet or sour by the social climate in which they must live. The spirit of the home is contagious in the highest degree; and since it is, a good spirit is of primary importance to the personalities that are growing and developing under its influence. The atmosphere or spirit of the home is greatly improved in families where religion plays a dominant role. Any number of studies have shown that marriage failure is considerably greater in homes where there is no religion than in homes where there is religion. We know that in our own church, for example, the divorce rate is considerably lower than for the population at large, and that where marriages are performed in the temple the divorce rate is lower still. Latter-day Saints are fortunate in having a religious heritage that carries over in this way. 'There is something about religion and spirituality in the home that clears the atmosphere and makes the home a delightful place in which to live. Developing personalities need this influence as a background for their own marriages in the future. This is not the place to discuss the various problems and principles of child training. There are many, and space here does not permit them to be considered. But what we would like to do is to emphasize and reemphasize the thought that a healthy personality is one of the first foundations for successful marriage, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUS" 1941 and that the home furnishes the stuff from which personality grows. Here is a list of some of the major things that the home can contribute toward the development of the normal, healthy personalities within it. The list is not complete, but it is probably complete enough to show what parents can do through interest and effort to lay the background for successful marriage in the lives of their children. 1. Give the child attention, sympathy, and companionship, thereby helping him to feel safe and secure. 2. Maintain discipline over the child, but let this gradually evolve into self-discipline or control. 3. Train the child to accept responsibility and to exercise his own initiative. 4. Inspire the child with ambition and industriousness; give him some worthy goals to work toward. 5. Instill into the child the basic principles of morality, particularly those of honesty and virtue. 6. Help the child to adjust socially; that is, to learn how to get along with people and to make friends. So much for family backgrounds and general personality development within the home. Let us turn now to more specific ways in which the home can prepare its young members for successful marriage. Education for Family Life Over the past several years the writer has made a number of surveys of selected groups of university students for the purpose of determining what qualities young people look for in each other in choosing a mate, and which of these qualities they consider the most important. There have been variations in their choices from year to year and from group to group, but the following factors were regarded as indispensable or LESSON DEPARTMENT very important by all: (1) chastity, (2) dependable character, (3) good health, (4) emotional stability and maturity, (5) ambition and industriousness, (6) desire for home life and children, (7) pleasing disposition, and (8) education and intelligence. 'There were many more traits than these listed and stressed as highly desirable in a mate, but the ones given here are those that were consistently considered as most important by most of the groups. Since these are the qualities, then, that seem to be uppermost in the minds of the young people who are choosing their life's partners, parents would do well to remember them and to train their children accordingly. Burgess and Cottrell have recently made a rather thorough study of 526 couples for the purpose of determining and measuring the factors which make for success or failure in marriage. On pages 357-360 of their book, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, they give a summary of their findings, together with findings from similar studies made by Bernard, Davis, Hamilton, Kirkpattick, Popenoe, Schroeder, and Terman. According to these studies the following home situations are among those that are favorable to successful adjustment in later marriage: (1) close attachment between parents and children, with very little conflict in the home, and with firm but not harsh discipline; (2) good health; (3) several or many friends; (4) happiness in childhood; (5) parents happily married; (6) regular church attendance; (7) church marriage; and (8) adequate and frank sex education in the home. These are some of the factors in early home 577 environment that are shown to have a lot to do with success or failure in marriage; and since they are, parents would do well to attempt to create these situations so that their children might be better prepared for their own marriages later on. But education for family life involves more than the development of personality traits and the creation of home situations that are favorable to successful adjustments in marriage later on. It involves direct training and instruction as well. Girls should be trained in the art of housekeeping and home management, boys in the occupational skills necessary for earning a livelihood, and both should be instructed in the psychological and physiological mysteries of sex. Sex education is no easy matter, but as suggested above in the study made by Burgess and Cottrell, it is nevertheless highly important for successful adjustment in marriage. Children should be given honest and complete information on the subject from time to time as they are old enough to understand it. The information should be given quite naturally and unemotionally, and usually in response to their questions. 'Too often parents are prone to shirk their duty in this matter, and thereby leave their children's minds to the warping and polluting influence of vile and vulgar stories. Morbid thoughts and practices exist among mankind largely because sex talk has been avoided by decent people and left to be dragged around in the dirt by the vile. A knowledge of sex will eventually be acquired. Why not give it in the home, gradually and naturally as the need arises, and in this way avoid the morbid 578 curiosity and perverted practices that have been the lot of so many? A good birth, a healthy environment for personality development, and specific education for family life —these are the contributions that the home can make to successful marriage. Problems and Projects 1. What does it mean to be well born? How can the choice of a mate for marriage affect the future married happiness of the children yet unborn? Discuss. _ 2. Why is the fact that the human child is so helpless and has such a long period of infancy both a responsibility and an opportunity for the home? 3. What do you understand by home atmosphere? What effect does it have on the future married happiness of children? Give examples from your own experiences if possible. 4. What are the most important personality traits that parents should try to instill into children? Can you add to the list given in the lesson? 5. What do you think of the eight qual- _ities that young college students consider important in choosing a mate? Which to you are the most important of these eight? List the seven or eight qualities that you would like to see a child of yours consider most seriously in choosing a mate. 6. Do you agree that children's questions on sex should be answered in the home quite frankly and without emotion or shame? Discuss ways in which this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 might be done with the least embarrassment possible. 7. Any number of studies show that children who come from happy homes are more likely to have happy homes of their own than are children who come from unhappy homes. Why do you think this is so? References Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., 1939, pp. 277-354- Burgess, Emest W., and Cottrell, Leonard S., Jr., Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Prentice-Hall, Inc., N. Y., 1939, Pp. 355-361 and passim. Dickerson, R. E., "Prepare Them for Marriage," Parents' Magazine, December, 1087 "PE 24mebFolsom, J. K., Plan for Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1938, pp. 217 ff. Groves, B. G., "Education for Marriage," Parents' Magazine, July, 1936, p. 15. Groves, E. R., Marriage, Henry Holt, N. Y., 1933, PP. 45-60; 191-203; 458-475. Hart, Hornell and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 255-306; 323-348. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., N. Y., 1940, pp. 37-51; 322-371. Richardson, F. H., "Training for Marriage," Hygeia, February, 1939, pp. 104- 106. Steffens, Lincoln, "The Influence of My Father on My Son," The Reader's Digest, July, 1937, pp. 23-26. Strain, Frances Bruce, "Sex Instruction in the Home," Good Housekeeping, May, 1938, pp. 80-81. GOSPEL HERITAGE Jeanette P. Parry God give me courage of tall trees That pierce the black of night, Give me the strength of seashore cliffs That turn the tide's mad flight. Give me the tenderness of snow That hides the faults of earth. Give me the power to proudly live My heritage of birth. lNlisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 2 (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) O MY FATHER, THOU THAT DWELLEST O my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! When shall I regain 'Thy presence, And again behold Thy face? In Thy holy habitation, Did my spirit once reside; In my first primeval childhood Was I nurtured near Thy side? For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth; Yet ofttimes a secret something Whispered, "You're a stranger here'; And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere. I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? All you sent me forth to do, os With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. HIS poem, you will find, is very different from that which we considered in our last lesson. It is less imaginative and more doctrinal. It is, however, a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints everywhere, especially at funerals. This is because —Eliza R. Snow. Of the idea it expresses of the closeness of our relationship to God. ELIZA ROXEY SNOW, like Parley P. Pratt, came of a long line of American ancestors. She was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, BirkPage 5/9 Then, at length, when I've completed. 580 shire County, Massachusetts. 'Two years later the Snows moved to Mantua, Portage County, Ohio. Before the family embraced Mormonism they were Baptists, and their home was the gathering place of many intellectual persons thereabouts. It was in this religious and cultural atmosphere that Eliza, with her brother Lorenzo, was reared. It seems that the mother and one of her daughters were the first of the family to join the Latter-day Saint Church. By this time the Saints were gathering to Kirtland, in Ohio, and to Zion, in Missouri. In 1835, when she was thirty-one years of age, Eliza, after carrying on her own investigations, changed her residence to Kirtland, and here she met the Prophet and was baptized. From then on until her death at an advanced age she shared the joys and sorrows of her people—in Ohio, in Missouri, in Illinois, and in Utah. At Kirtland and Nauvoo she taught school. She was the first general secretary of the Relief Society, which was organized in Nauvoo, in 1842. In Utah, "she held the position of president of all the women's organizations rather more by common consent than appointment until 1880 when President John Taylor segregated the different societies and appointed and set her apart as president of the Relief Society of the Church, which position she filled until her death." (Relief Society Handbook, page 114.) Sister Snow traveled extensively, not only in the United States, but in Europe and the near East as well. In 1872 she made a special trip to Palestine, and visited such nations as Egypt, Greece, Italy, Germany, France, and England. It was on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 this tour that she presented a copy of the Book of Mormon to Queen Victoria of England, who received it very graciously. ITH Sister Snow literary work _ was a sort of vocation, though she did not earn her living at it. She wrote prose as well as poetry, but verse was her chief form of literary expression and the form in which she excelled. One of her prose works was a history of the Snow family, with particular attention to her brother Lorenzo's life, for he not only became one of the Twelve Apostles, but also the fifth President of the Church. She produced songs, hymns, and nartative verse. At least eighteen of her poems were set to music, mostly by our own composers. With the exception of Parley P. Pratt and William W. Phelps, of whom we shall speak in another lesson, Eliza R. Snow has the greatest number of compositions in our new hymn book. It is not difficult to give a heading to each of the four stanzas of "O My Father." 'The first states the fact of our pre-earth life; the second suggests the reason for earth life; the third tells how we came to know the meaning of the word "Father" as applied to God, with a hint of a heavenly mother, too; and the last expresses a yearning for a reunion with the heavenly parents after death. THE idea of our relationship to God is the heart of revealed religion. Everything, in one way or another, stems from this relationship. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 77, verse 2, we are informed LESSON DEPARTMENT that the spirit of man is "in the likeness of his person." This fact comes to us through the "Key of Knowledge" spoken of in the hymn—the "Key" restored by our modern prophet, for the Bible tells almost nothing about the pre-existence of man. And the idea of a "Mother" in heaven was, so far as we know, never thought of, even by those who believed God to be our Father. The doctrine elevates womankind to a plane beyond anything conceived before. This hymn teaches that God is the Father of our spirits. The thought of a heavenly Father implies - the thought of a heavenly Mother. This is a fundamental conception in our religion. OUR spirits, born of heavenly parents, lived in a world of spirits before they were born on the earth of earthly parents. How long they lived there, we do not know. But they lived there long enough, as President Young once suggested, to learn to know the Lord and their elder brother, Jesus Christ. And they lived there long enough, too, to approve the "everlasting covenant" that was to redeem us all from death and sin. There was "a wise and glorious purpose," the hymn teaches, in the spirits coming to earth. There was a reason, also, why the "recollection" of our "former friends and birth" should have been "withheld" from us. The purpose was, as we know from other sources of divine information, that we might take upon ourselves bodies of flesh and blood. This was one of the steps necessary to exaltation in the presence of our parents in heaven. It is the shutting off of these "recollections" that 581 makes us feel that we are "wanderers from a more exalted sphere" and that we are "strangers here." Jesus taught his disciples, in the sample prayer which we call the "Lord's Prayer," that God is our Father, but he did not tell them why or how this was so. 'This we have come to know through modern revelation. And modern revelation, too, informs us that "I've a mother there." Eliza R. Snow knew the Prophet Joseph Smith intimately, for she lived in his home both in Kirtland and in Nauvoo. She probably learned much of what is in this poem from him. We live here in mortality for but a short time—short, that*is, as compared to our life before and after this—and then, after a period in a disembodied state, we will be raised to immortality. But will we "dwell with" our heavenly parents again with their "approbation"? That depends on how we have lived here. If we have accepted again the "new and everlasting covenant," and if we have tried to live according to its teachings, then we may become citizens of the Celestial Kingdom. In that event we shall have the necessary "approbation" and "dwell" in the presence of God forever. Such is the theology of "O My Father." Questions 1. Select some lines in this poem that appeal to you and then memorize them. 2. Give the main facts in the life of Eliza R. Snow as they are told here, with such other facts as you may be able to get elsewhere. 3. A bit of writing often reveals the character of its author. Can you tell anything about Sister Snow from studying this hymn? What sort of things was she interested in? Was she serious minded or 582 otherwise? Give your reasons. Her view of life as revealed here? 4. Tell what you know, from any source, about (a) the pre-earth world; (b) the What was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 purpose in our coming here; (c) the conditions on which we may "dwell" with God in the next life. SE ERRATUM N the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940, page 857, in the lesson on Latter-day Saint Church History is found the following statement: "For measuring distance in crossing the plains, a convert, William Clayton, had made an instrument called the roadometer." We wish to correct this statement, for in William Clayton's Journal, under date of May 11, 1847, is recorded: "Brother Appleton Harmon is working at the machinery for the wagon, to tell the distance we travel, and expects to have it in operation tomorrow." On May 12th is this entry: "Brother A. Harmon has completed the machinery on the wagon so far that I shall only have to count the number of miles instead of the revolution of the wagon wheel." On May 16th, he continues: "About noon today Brother Appleton Harmon completed the machinery on the wagon called a 'troadometer' by adding a wheel to revolve once in ten miles, showing each mile and also each quarter mile we travel, and then casing the whole over so as to secure it from the weather." (See also Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 379, second paragraph. ) << ___—_ LIFE HAS: LOVELINESS Lucy Goodrich Lind Life gives such loveliness freely. This joy is all mine for the asking— High, buoyant spirit of morning; the voice of his trumpet calling The earth to the joy of endeavor; hoofbeats of prancing horses Across the high bridge to the meadows; Music of children's gay prattle, faces lit up with wonder, Trusting in me and confiding; rhythm of youth' s coming footsteps— Eyes loving, arms enfolding; Night's shawl rustling at twilight, spread with the day's sweet approval; Lyrics of birds in the cedars; moon-lighted, shivering aspens _ Wafting the scent of the shrubbery, breathing a holy spirit Over the earth at evening; and peaceful singing hours. Los Angeles, Californig 6003 Compton Avenue J efferson 1244 teeF; Also q com; I Cessories. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Seciety Magazine send your daughter in the happiest clothes of her — life! Exclusively at ZCM] Here they are... America's smartest college clothes! Youthful, exciting and completely practicalf ZCMI brings them to you straight from the pages of Mademoiselle—straight from the critical OK of our own college board—plus a legion of ZCMI exclusive classics by Alice Carol. You'll find these fashions and also Good 'Housekeeping's wise wardrobe choices for grade-schoolers at ZCMI and no vhere else in Salt Lake. 