[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | April | Issue: 20 | Title: H. WELLS. | Author: rays reflected through rifted cloud]

H. WELLS.

	[By an humble admirer of his life and works, Salt Lake
City, Sunday, March, 29th 1891.]

	Silently weave him a spotless shroud,
	Oh, white-winged snow, this hallowed day!
	A shroud of ermine, soft and white,
	Set round with pearls and crystals bright;
	By rays reflected through rifted cloud
	As the Day-god takes his way.

	Daintily lift your beauteous heads,
	Snow-drop, crocus, and violet—
	Sweet harbingers of early Spring!
	Up through the snow your offerings bring;
	Deck thou the Hero's lowly bed
	With your blossoms, dewy-wet.

	Tenderly thou his requiem sing,
	Oh, feathered choir, with voices sweet;
	Now soft, now low, from tiny throats,
	Now full and clear the music floats.
	O'er hill and dale your praises bring,
	And lay them at his feet.

	Prayerfully enter the sacred fane,
	Friends of the brave, illustrious dead:
	Gaze once more, ere hid from view,
	On form and feature in life ye knew;
	Reverently asking we too may gain,
	The goal, by the path he led.

	Tenderly over the threshold bear
	The pale, unconscious form of clay—
	All that is left us of him we love!
	Freed from its trammels he lives above,
	Joyfully, tenderly greet him there,
	Friends of an earlier day.

	Peacefully lay in his narrow bed,
	E'en as a child that goes to rest,
	The Patriarch's form. His was a life
	Grand, consistent, with goodness rife;


Safe we can judge him with heaven wed,
Sure that our God knows best.

So weave a shroud of ermine;
Sweet birds, a requiem sing;
Lift up your heads, bright flowers—
A floral off'ring bring.
Let Zion's sons and daughters,
Their hearts and voices raise,
In sweetest song and music,
A noble man to praise.
And ye, his friends and brethren,
Grown aged in the fight;
For tribute of true friendship
To him, your hearts unite.

Last, and to him, the dearest, 
Fond children, loving wives,
God's comfort be upon you,
Throughout your future lives.
Until your labors finished,	
And earth's career at end,
You meet, in radiant mansions,
Your father and your friend.
					JULIA A. MACDONALD.


