New Board Members Nettie D. Bradford By Ethel R. Smith With the priceless heritage of being well born, Nettie Maria Davis Bradford, recently appointed member of General Board came into the world on the 17th day of March, 1873, the anniversary of a day dear to the hearts of every Relief Society worker. Born of God-fearing, righteous parents, Albert W., and Melissa J. Labson Davis, the principles of the gospel, which have ever been her guiding star in all her activities, were early implanted into her soul. As a girl she received her education in the public schools of Salt Lake City and the Latter-day Saints University. Her activities in public life have been many and varied. For a number of years she was in the Presidency of the Primary Association. When very young, she was called upon to act as secretary of the Sunday School and as an officer in the ward choir and later was made president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association in her ward. For four years she was a regular ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. In 1909, she was chosen first counselor to Mrs. Harriet B. Harker of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society in which position she labored, serving as counselor to both Mrs. Harker and Mrs. Harriet C. Jensen. On May 5, 1917, she was called to be president of the society and for eight years labored diligently and unceasingly for the benefit of Relief Society work in that stake. Mrs. Bradford is a born leader and 258 she carries with her into her work the true spirit of the gospel. Peace and harmony existed wherever she labored. It mattered not whom she gathered around her every element foreign to the Spirit of the Lord was eradicated through her gracious. And impartial consideration of her co-workers. No task was ever too difficult or unpleasant for her to undertake. Yet with grace and dignity she has accomplished all she has undertaken to do and modestly gives all credit to her fellow laborers. Mrs, Bradford has been always active in community uplift movements, serving as president of the Parent-Teacher Association for two years. She has served as member of the State Commission for the Adult Blind, under Governors Bamberger and Mabey and is at present active in this position. She is also vice-president of the women of the University. With her family she spent two years in New York City, and lived in Portland, Oregon, Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco, California during the periods of the World's Fair in these cities. While in San Francisco, she represented the Y. L. M. I. A. As an official delegate to the International Congress of Women and was a member of the committee appointed to extend to the Countess of Aberdeen an invitation to visit Salt Lake. She was also chairman of the Credentials Committee at the National Council of Woman Voters and represented her state at various functions as official hostess at the Utah building during the World's Fair. Mrs. Bradford was ably supported in all her endeavors by her husband and children. While she has been extensively engaged in public service her light has shone most brightly as wife and mother. A capable manager, an ideal housekeeper, her home has not suffered (because of her activities in public. She is the wife of Dr. Robert H. Bradford, head of the department of metallurgy at the University of Utah and is the mother of five children, three boys and two girls, four of whom are living. One of her sons is now serving on a mission to Great Britain. The others are actively engaged in church and educational work. As a true disciple of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a dutiful daughter, a devoted wife and mother and a lover of service, the General Board is greatly enriched by this addition to its membership. Truly did her father, a patriarch, say in blessing her, "The Lord is pleased with thee and has yet a greater work for thee to do." Elise Benson Alder By Amy W, Evans Lowell said that the training of a child should begin a hundred years before its birth. That the training of Elise Benson Alder began that far in the ELISE BENSON ALDER 259 past one carninot doubt. When one knows the history of her forefathers. In a beautiful home on the slope of a Swiss mountain, near Lake Geneva, lived Serge Louis Ballif, a gentleman of wealth and learning and his wife, Elsie Marie Le Coultre. A little daughter was born to them here, in the town of Lausanne, in 1850. She was named Louisa. Her infancy and early childhood was spent in an atmosphere of comfort, culture, and refinement. Latter-day Saint missionaries reached this family, and they accepted the gospel. Being of strong faith and high courage, they left their beautiful home, with servants and ease, but took with them the culture and refinement, and came to America and to Utah. Meantime, in America Ezra Taft Benson, an industrious New England farmer, felt impelled to move west.. He and his wife traveled until they came to Quincy, Illinois, where they heard the faith of the Latter-day Saints and were convinced that it was true. Through his zeal and ability, not many years after he joined the Church, he was made a member of the quorum of apostles. He and his wife with others were expelled from Nauvoo and went with the Saints to Garden Grove, when, on the Ist of May, 1846, in a wagon, a son was born to them. This little son, George Taft Benson, and the little Swiss girl Louisa Ballif became the parents of Mrs. Alder. They were both leaders wherever they lived, in civic as well as in Church affairs. Her father was bishop of Whitney ward for twenty years, and her mother president of Oneida stake Relief Society for sixteen years. Mrs, Alder was born in Logan, March 10, 1873. Eleven years later her parents moved to Preston, Idaho, later her father was called to preside as bishop over the Whitney ward, and it was here that she spent her girlhood and the early years of her married life. She attended the public schools and the Agricultural College at Logan. Her success as a teacher in the schools of Whitney, attracted attention, and she was asked to teach the, primary department at the Oneida Stake Academy, which she did for three years, until her marriage to George Alfred Alder, son of George Alfred and Lydia Dunford Alder, October, 1895, in the Salt Lake Temple. Eight children have been born to them, six boys ahd two girls. Two of their boys died. Their eldest daughter, Ione, who recently returned from a mission to the Western States is a graduate nurse, Lydia their second daughter is a trained social worker, and is with the welfare department at the presiding bishop's office. Lyndon, their eldest son, is attending the North Western 260 University at Chicago. The other children are in school at Salt Lake City. "An officer in every auxiliary organization of the Church," can be said of Mrs. Alder. Music always attracted her, and she has led boys' choruses, women and children, as well as a ward choir. The Whitney choir under her leadership entered a contest at an Eisteddfod at Logan and carried off first prize from the eleven competing choirs. Her husband filled a mission to Germany and on his return they moved to Salt Lake City. It was here that her work in the Relief Society really began. She became president of the 20th ward society in August, 1915. In November of the same year Richard W. Young, then president of Ensign stake, called Mrs. Alder to be president of the Relief Societies of that stake, which position she held until November, 1923, when she was released at her urgent request, having met with an accident which prevented her giving that attention to her duties that she felt they demanded. Her one thought was that the work of the Relief Society must not suffer in any way. Asa Relief Society ward and stake president she was a splendid success. When she was called to the general board, she he! D the position of chorister in the 20th ward of Salt Lake City. A warm and loving heart gives Mrs. Alder a magnetic personality, this with her natural eloquence, her optimism and faith make her a leader among women. These qualities with her broad and varied experience will make her a valuable member of the General Board of Relief Society. She wishes to give the credit of whatever she has accomplished that is worth while, to the training she received from her father, her mother and to her husband, who is a great student and lover of the gospel, and. Who has given her much help and encouragement in whatever she has been called to do. And no doubt some of it is due to the training that began a hundred years back. LARGEST CLUB IN THE WORLD PLANNED BY WOMEN The American Women's Association met in New York on the 5th of April and made plans for building a nineteen story structure to cost $3,000,000, which is to be used for a woman's club. It is to be built by women, financed by women and run by women. The plans provide for a club house of one thousand bedrooms, which will be rented to members for considerably less than hotel rates.