One Phase of Motherhood Susan T. Jennings. Everyone has his faults. Jim Jenson, Jr. Was no exception. His was pronounced and obvious aversion to water. That is, to be more explicit, to water when it was associated with soap. Of course, he wasn't averse to its thirst quenching properties, especially when it formed the basic fluid of a soda fountain drink, neither was he averse to it when it ran in juyously cooling waves in the swimming pool. It was decidedly the associated variety that Jim openly and avowedly held a distaste for. It seemed unfortunate, from Jim's point of view, that he and his mother did not just agree on these finer technicalities as to the various uses of water. No doubt their neighbors might have summed up their differences in the word immaculate; for Julia Jenson was an immaculate woman. She averred Jim ought to take frequent and thorough washings. Jim averred otherwise. This otherwise attitude peeved Julia considerably. Sometimes she complained to Jim, Sr. When he returned home of a week end. Jim, Sr's. Vocation took him from home most of the week. Saturday marked his return. It also marked a thorough renovation of bedding in the Jenson domicile, with an application of fresh linen. So it could not be wondered at that Julia, being of the immaculate order, should be slightly edgy towards nightfall on that particular day. Jim, Sr. Was an even tempered man. He never took his wife's complaining too seriously. ?He'll come to it. Julia," he always soothed.; "But I can't understand him, Jim, to be so negligent of his appearance, to not take more pride in himself. He doesn't take after you in that respect, not in the least." Inteut on vigorously polishing a cut glass bowl and gazing admiringly through it? crystal lights as if were reflected therein the polish that always attended Jim, Sr., she failed to note that that gentleman to whom the pretty compliment was directed had made no answering comment and to all appearances had suddenly become short sighted, at so close a range was he holding his magazine. 'You'll see that he takes his bath to-night, won't you, Jim?" And Jim, Sr. Did see to it, although it took considerable persuasion on his part. "You'd better try and please mother about this washing business, Jim," he advised. "If you endeavor to please your mother ONE PHASE OF MOTHERHOOD 269 in little things, some day she