[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Mothers and the Church Schools Zina Young Card]

The Mothers and the Church Schools Zina Young Card. Wonderful indeed is the influence of the Church schools upon the lives and characters of the children of our people. We find, as a self-evident fact, that next to the home life, the schools our children attend, have the greatest influence in the formation of their characters for the battles of life. The greatest and most important point stands out boldly, and is pre-eminently the converting of our children to the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. From visits recently paid by me to the leading Church schools, I find they are the peers of other schools, in the teaching of hygiene, ethics, meciuanical arts, domestic science, and domestic arts. A few of our advanced schools, have business departments that vie successfully with other business schools that specialize in that alone. From actual contact and intimate knowledge, the fact stands out in bold relief, that a more competent, intelligent and conscientious class of men and women can not be found in the halls of learning than those who grace the schools of our Church. This widespread diffusion of knowledge upon these vital subjects, has borne fruit, by preparing the minds of the rising generation, for great responsibilities of active service and cheerful sacrifice. Those who are called upon to fill responsible places in our wonderful organizations if they have been trained in Church schools will be well prepared. Dear| mothers, do you realize what the Church schools mean to you and your children. If you don't, go and visit them, and see for yourself, study the spiritual side of their education which is the science of living, the true and better life. Go with your girls into the gymnasiums and view with delight the won-. Derful systematic training given for the development of their beautiful bodies, that they might be qualified for their future missions as wives and mothers, with intelligent minds and strong bodies, for hygiene, properly applied, will give them this knowledge.: As mothers we know we cannot give what we haven't got, but the crowning source of instruction is the religious training given to the youthful and plastic minds of our precious children, THE MOTHERS AND THE CHURCH SCHOOLS 513 the powers to see and understand the principles of life and sal- ' \ t vation.. | Do you know why the Church schools were established? The system was revealed to the prophet Brigham Young, and by him established for the salvation of the children of the Latter-day Saints. The mission of conducting these schools was given by Brigham Young into the hands of the divinely inspired Brother Karl G. Maeser and Pres. Abraham O, Smoot; and their perpetuity has been largely due to great teachers who have followed.