[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Church Support of Education John A. Widtsoe]

C, Church Support of Education John A, Widtsoe. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is essentially an educational organization. Its mission is to know the gospel, and to teach it to all the world, since all correct knowledge may find its place in the gospel system. There can be no domain of truth which may not be explored or taught by the members of the Church. Moreover, the gospel, which comprehends all truth and all time, can best be known and taught by those whose minds have been developed, within or without schools. The Church has always been committed to education, and has been and is friendly to all honest institutions of learning. The great love of the "Mormon" people for education is nowhere better shown than in the record attendance of students of the Utah Agricultural College and the University of Utah, in both of which institutions "Mormon" students overwhelmingly predominate. Both of these schools have the largest attendance in their respective classes, when compared with other states and with the population of our own state. It is only natural that a Church so thoroughly committed to education should have established, and does now maintain, schools, that are wholly under its control. The work of the Church is extensive and varied; the special training for many forms of Church service can be secured only in schools under Church control. Then, it is a vital need in a church with the mission of the "Mormon" Church to maintain in many places and of easy access, institutions where the characteristic spirit of the Church lives and shines brightly and may be absorbed by. The young. Moreover, there are thousands of Latter-day Saints to whom the gospel is the dearest thing on earth, and for which they have made tremendous sacrifices. Such parents want to instil into the minds and souls of their children the full meaning of the gospel, and they desire therefore to send them to a Church school. Finally, the present educational custom of our land is to ignore religion. This is perhaps the chief weakness of the system of American education. The time, perhaps, should never come when religion is taught in our public institutions supported by public funds, but the public schools must come to a time when they will recognize the need for religious training and allow credit for such work done, and provide time periods during which stu- CHURCH SUPPORT OF EDUCATION 509 dents may go out to places provided by the churches, to secure religious instruction. When state schools become more liberal in this respect, there will be less need of private, church-maintained schools. 'Today, however, it would be a calamity to eliminate our Church schools. Meanwhile, excellent instructions are offered in many Church schools. Those who, for one or another reason, feel impelled to support the Church schools will find available almost everything that the student may desire. There is no competition between Church and state schools. Tt is a well known maxim in education that the more provisions which are made for education, the more young people become in-- terested in schools, Latter- -day Saints should encourage their children to secure the best education of the day; for our people, in knowledge and understanding, must be as a light upon a hill— and when schools are considered, our excellent Church schools should be given full consideration. A Great Church University By F. S. Harris, President Brigham Young University. As a university with equipment and a faculty that will place it in the front ranks of the great universities of the world; the infellectual center of our Church, prepared to give our young men and young women the best training for service and leadership which the world has to offer: such an institution have the General Authorities decided to make of the Brigham Young University. Its big work is to be the training of our young people for leadership in its highest forms; leadership in the Church itself; leadership in social affairs, leadership in intellectual affairs, leadership in business, leadership in art, leadership in citizenship, in fact leadership in all that will contribute to the betterment of the world and the happiness of its people. If the most important contributors to our present civilization were listed we would find that religion would, head the list, and yet in our great national educational system which we Americans are now looking to for the preservation of this great civilization, religion has been left almost entirely out. In the last few years the world has begun to realize that this is a great mistake. Even cold-hearted business has been forced to recognize the necessity of religion in its makeup. Roger W. Babson, one of the most eminent statisticians and business analysts in the country, recerrfly isstied a statement in which he said: 
 "The need of the hour is not more factories or materials, not more railroads or steamships, not more armies or more navies, but rather more education based on the plain teachings of Jesus.—Religion, like everything else of value, must be taught. It is possible to get more religion in industry and business only through the development of Christian education and leadership. With the forces of evil backed by men and money, systematically organized to destroy, we must back with men and money all campaigns for Christian education.—The safety of our sons and daughters, as they go out on the streets this very night, is due to the influence of the preachers rather than to the influence of the policemen and lawmakers. Yes, the safety of our nation including all groups, depends on Christian education. Furthermore, at no time in our history has it been more greatly needed—As the great life insurance companies are spending huge sums on doctors, scientific investigations, and district nurses to improve the health of the nation, so we business men should spend huge sums to develop those fundamental religious qualit'es of integrity, industry, faith, and service, which make for true prosperity." To the people of our Church, Mr. Babson's point of view is not a new one. "Mormonism," has always been more than a * Sunday religion; it has permeated every phase of our activities from the pioneering of a wild country and the building of irrigation systems down to the most common business transactions. The success of our people in. This work has caused the world to marvel. The secret of it is religion. If the same success is to be attained in the future we must train our leaders not only in the arts, sciences, and industries but also in religious, intellectual, and social leadership. This is to be the work of the Brigham Young university. It is impossible, of course, to train all of the people of the Church in a single institution, but there must be trained the leaders of the various community activities. To do this we must have an institution that is second to none in the world. It does not need to be large, but its standards must be high. We may not need a large faculty, but it must be made up of men and women of unquestioned integrity and loyalty to the principles of truth and righteousness. The institution must be able to select for its service the most capable and best trained men and women of the Church wherever they are found. We must build at the University a great library. It must contain the best of the world's publications dealing with the lines of work in which the institution specializes. It must receive regularly the best of the technical journals containing current information that will be of service to the different departments. This library must be so superior that it will become a mecca for those seeking information on themes related to "Mormonism." The working equipment of the institution must be of the best. The B. Y. U. Cannot at present attempt to teach every sub- A GREAT CHURCH UNIVERSITY 511 ject included in the curricula of ali the schools of the country, but for such work as it decides to give it must be prepared, with the most modern apparatus, to give work equal to that in any institution in the land. The service of the institution is not to be confined to the classroom. Through its extension division it will carry its usefulness to the communities throughout the Church. Missionary training, leadership in Priesthood Quorums, Mutual Improvement Associations, Sunday Schools, Religion Classes, Relief Societies, Scout Troops. And every organization designed for the betterment of the people should be able to call on the University for help in getting material to be used in class work. The institution should become the center for subject matter in connection with these various organizations, The research division of the University should foster the investigation of new truth with special emphasis on the problems that are of interest to the Church. Every instructor in any subject is better if he is doing some research, and it is with the spirit of helping the various departments in their work as well as discovering new truth that a division of research will be maintained.; Time will be required to build the kind of institution which so many of our people have been hoping to see established, but now that the plan has been definitely outlined by the Church authorities, the growth of the Brigham Young University will, as in the past, surpass the fondest hopes of the most optimistic of its thousands of admirers and friends, The principal of a grade school at Long Beach, Calif., recently made this statement to his pupils: "In our family are nine brothers. Five of us are school teachers and have never used tobacco in any way. The other four all use tobacco, Two began it in grammar school, and never finished their grades. One began in high school, and did not finish his second year there. One did not begin smoking until his first year in college, and he did not finish his second year in college. The five of us who are teachers all graduated from grammar school, from high school and from college. All nine of us brothers had the same chance for schooling, and all enjoyed the same home privileges." Will H. Brown, Oakland, Calif.