[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Dress Reform]

'Wells, Genealogical Work, A Demonstration of Teacher's Visit to the Home, Dress Reform, and Economy. St. George Stake During the winter membership drive, the presidencies of the East and West wards of St. George decided upon a contest plan for the purpose of increasing attendance and awakening interest in Relief Society work. The duration of the contest was from the first of December until the first of May, with the agreement that the winning ward society was to be entertained by the losing society. The final decision of the ward secretaries showed that there was a tie, so the presidents, Mrs. Esther Whitehead and Mrs. Susia Atkin, decided that a conjoint party should be given which was a sort of testimonial to the teachers and mem- NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 529 bers. A very fine musicale was arranged, followed by a social and the serving of dainty refreshments. The party was held in the basement of the taberacle, with 202 Relief Society women in attendance. The last union meeting of the season was held June 3. There was a good attendance of local officers and teachers. During the winter the teachers' work has been emphasized, and the main feature of the program was a demonstration of Relief Society teaching, showing the effect of real teaching and idle talk upon the members visited. At the close of the meeting, refreshments were served by the Stake Board, and a pleasant social hour spent. Morgan Stake A social was recently. Given by the stake board in honor of Mrs. Martha A. Heiner, second counselor in the Stake Relief Society who has resigned her position on account of ill health, and Mrs. Charlotte J. Seaman, a stake board member, who is moving away from the stake. After an interesting program, a delicious luncheon was served. Parowan Stake In reviewing the work of the Parowan Ward Relief Society for the last year, we find some very interesting items. Last summer the Society entertained the Boy Scouts of Salt Lake county, over two hundred in number, at a banquet. The banquet was well prepared and well served and the boys' evident enjoyment made the effort well worth while. Respect and love for the older members of the ward prompted an entertainment last fall of all those in the Parowan ward over sixty years of age at a program meeting and banquet. This is a yearly occurrence. In an effort to revive the "old time" wood hauling parties last winter the Relief Society offered to every man and boy, with their partners, a free banquet and free ticket to the dancing party held for that occasion, for every thousand pounds of wood hauled. The response was most gratifying, eighty-four thousand _ pounds of wood being recevied. The market price of this wood was $294. The wood was distributed among the needy. On Christmas day parcels containing groceries and other edibles were distributed among the widows and the needy by the Society. The contents of these parcels cost the Relief Society $115. Early in the year of 1921, the officers of the Society began planning for a temple excursion to the district temple at St. George, a distance of about eighty-five miles. Activities began in February with a dancing party and luncheon. This affair was nicely conducted 
 and netted $75. In March a dance and bazaar were held. The bazaar articles is as follows: thirty yards of home made carpet; proceeds of which added $136 to the fund. The list of completed six beautiful woven rugs, eleven serviceable quilts, ladies' wearing apparel, infants' clothing, little boy's and girls' complete outfits. The excursion was planned for April 19, and comparatively little trouble was encountered in securing transportation. The men furnished their cars for the running expense, and most of the drivers rendered their services free of charge. Cars were hired to take luncheon and bedding, the company having previously rented a building conveniently near the temple. The entire trip occupied three days, two of which were spent in the temple. In the party there were forty-four women. The weather conditions were favorable and the trip was successful from every standpoint. Although the roads to Dixie are rough and rather dangerotis, the company met with no accident and general good will prevailed. The people of St. George were very hospitable to the party, showing every possible courtesy to them.