
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1885.	No. 1.


[Column 1]
	A TRIBUTE.

TO THE ILLUSTRIOUS DEPARTED, JUNE 1ST, 1885.

Thou unforgotten one!—the years roll on,
And waves of joy and sorrow beat around,
And still we have God's servants to direct,
To guide, to comfort and uphold the flock—
To steer and pilot thro the breakers strong,
That oft well nigh engulfed the noble ship—
But "Father's at the helm," so all is well.

Thro' all—while reason holds her regal seat,
And memory, as her Premier attends
And waits her bidding—thou wilt be remebered,
The light of other years, the wondrous charm
Of other days, when all was young within
Our souls, thou wert a magnate in the hand
Of God! raised by Him to do His bidding;
Thy name was heard tho' Europe's shrine—
A name made famous by the word sent forth,
That word, God given, made the mystic charm,
The prestige that thy presence threw around
Whatever circle thou didst concentrate.

"List'n," a voice once said, "if I be lifted up
I will draw all men unto me!" 'Twas this
Same voice transmitted thro' the one commissioned,
The "Shepherd's" voice that drew the honest hearts,
The unsophistocate, the innocent and good,
Emitted thro' the voice of BRIGHAM YOUNG!

And thousands flocked to that magnetic voice,
They heard, they listen'd and gladly they obey'd—
The ancient prophecy was realized,
That "in a day a nation should be born!"
As "doves to windows flock" they flock'd to him;
He fed them with the Word, the bread of life,
It knows instinctively the heavenly taste,
And though but a crub be dropp'd it rushes
Forth, o'er leaping all that would its course impede.
To grasp the morsel that will give it life.

The enameled pill that modern shepherds give,
Glossing it over with the name of Christ,
Starves, alas!  e'en while 'tis masticated,
But on the table spread in latter days
The voice of God makes rich the blessed feast,
The bread and wine is consecreated food,
Feeding both soul and body those who eat.

Thy work on earth is done! but all whose eye
Expansive is, can look around and see
Thy foot-prints, the ear of memory recall
Thy voice, the  "eye of mind" can see thy form
Thus, even to us, still sublunary,
Thou art not dead—that word is false.

From out our Lexicon we do eradicate
That word, so false, so meaningless, so sad.
We see thy tomb, but know thou art not there;
Thou, thy immortal self, wert never there;
The vacant niche awaiting thee, is thine,
With Joseph, Hyrum, Heber, and with those
Who, having left the earth, do congregate
In the grand empyrean of God!—
We feel e'en, there, thou dost remember us,
The gathered, the assembled flock of Christ,
Our Shepherd, King, Redeemer, Captain, Lord!

Our enemies to-day are mighty ones—
Through their malignant persecutions.
The dark and poisonous prisons
Hold incarcerate the honest and the good,
God's servants, in whose service youth was spent,
And even up to life's maturer age,
They've "borne the heat and burden of the day;"
The prayers of congregated Saints are heard,
Borne to the throne of grace by those once here;
We feel the electric chain is working still,
And whisp'rings, not of earth, inform our souls
We have a delegation in the court
Above, who know, and can present our case;
And thus, amid the din of persecution,

[Column 2]
Wounded, we are calm, bruis'd, but never broken;
Faithful to our God, our leaders and ourselves.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, June 1st, 1885.


ESSENTIAL FREEDOM.

   Essential freedom is the right to differ in
opinion, and that right must be sacredly re-
spected; nor must the privilege of dissent be
conceded with disdain and coldness, but with
cordiality and good will. No loss of rank,
abatement of character, or ostracism from so-
ciety must darken the pathway of the humblest
of the seekers after truth, the right of free
thought, free inquiry and free speech--as clear
as the noonday.
   Without a full and cheerful recognition of
this right America is only a name, her glory a
dream, her institution a mockery. How do
such noble sentiments agree with the present
crusade against the citizens of this Territory?
When we take the privilege of differing with
others in our opinion as to our religion, we
are compelled to forfeit our character, and os-
tracism from society is our doom. We are de-
nied the right of citizens, and, although we
have suffered untold hardships, privations and
trials to make this Territory what it is to-day,
we are compelled to submit to have our avowed
enemies rule over us, to have a despotism es-
tablished in our midst, the rights and sanctity
of the home circle invaded, wives dragged
from their families and friends, questions asked
that ought to cause the blush of shame to
mantle the brow of any honorable court, to
help criminate and send to prison that which
is a part of themselves (they and their hus-
bands being one) for daring to own as wives
those whom they have sworn to cherish and
protect through all time and eternity, for ac-
knowledging their offspring as legitimate, and
entitled to their support and protection.
   You can search history in vain, even in the
dark ages, for a precedent of such high-handed
oppression. Well may we ask, "Where, oh!
where is the nobility of soul, the patriotism,
the freedom, that burned in the bosom of a
Washington, an Adams and a Webster?" Have
the noble and great men, that shed their blood
for religious freedom, bled and died in vain?
Is it true that they lived in vain? Yes. Oh,
shame! that we should have to say it is true.
The very foundation of the fabric of freedom
is crumbling and tottering, and unless the
Lord, the Mighty Ruler of the heavens and
earth puts forth His might, the structure will
be shattered and fall; but He has chosen this
land--the home of the free--for His children
to dwell upon, and He will protect the consti-
tution. He inspired the  noble men that left their
native land and braved the storms and dangers
of the deep, and faced the trials incident to
finding a home in an unknown land, and es-
tablishing religious freedom, that their souls
might soar aloft to that high pinnacle, the right
to worship God according to the dictates of
their own convictions of right. History in-
structs us that the love of religious freedom,
a compound sentiment in the breast of man,
made up of the clearest sense of right, and
the highest convictions of duty, is able to look
the sternest despotism in the face, and with
means, apparently most inadequate, to shake
principalities and powers. The principle of
toleration, in the broadest sense, is the most
just and wisest policy, and we, as a people, feel
to award all the right to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences; we
claim the same privilege. We claim the 
right given us by the Constitution, of being
governed by men of our choice, by men that
are citizens of our Territory, that are acquaint-
ed with the situation and condition of the peo-
ple, and that have helped to make the Terri-
tory, and that are the friends of the people,
men that have proved themselves trustworthy;
that  have the interest of the people at heart,
and whose interests are interwoven with theirs.
"We have a right--an indisputable, unalienable,
indefeasible right to that most dreaded and
envied kind of knowledge--I mean of the
character and conduct of our rulers.  Rulers
are no more than agents or trustees of the peo-
ple, and if the cause, the interest and trust is
insidiously betrayed, or wantonly trifled away,
the people have a right to revoke the authority,
that they themselves have deputed, and to con-
stitute other and better agents or trustees."--
Webster.
   Why not give us the same right that is
given to other Territories, in the choice of
officers? Why treat us as enemies and aliens?
Do we not claim allegiance to this Republic?
Do we not submit to all Constitutional laws?
Yes, verily we do. There is not a people on
this continent that are more loyal to the Con-
stitution than the Latter-day Saints; there is
no people on the earth that would bear with
patience the indignities that are being heaped
upon this people; their dearest rights taken
from them, and all that they hold dear
trampled under foot. Why do they bear it?
Because they know in whom they trust; they
know that the Lord, the Great Ruler of the
universe, is at the head. We have borne persecu-
tion and prosecution. We have importuned
in vain for our wrongs to be redressed, and
now, once again, we petition for equal rights
with other citizens of this nation. We are a
law-abiding people; we are not traitors, which 
we have proved time upon time, and we protest
against packed juries. We protest against being
considered guilty until we have had a fair and
impartial trial by our peers, and are proved so.
We protest against all proceedings that are ex-
post facto in their nature. We claim the
right of protection in our persons, houses and
effects, against unreasonable searches, and we
claim the right to incorporate in the rites of
our religion, whatever the Almighty sees fit to
command His people to incorporate for the
salvation of His people.
   Living under the heavenly light of revela-
tion, we hope to perform all the duties we owe
to one another and to society; as whatever
makes good Christians make good citizens.
Why have we not been admitted into the
Union as a State? For years we have had all
the necessary qualifications, and are able to as-
sume the responsiblities of Statehood. We
have proved, to a demonstration, the ability of
our leading men to statesmanship; that they
are not men who have any sinister ends to ac-
complish, no clamorous partisans to gratify, no
pledges to redeem, no object to be regarded, but
simply the public good. They have ever
shown a liberal, open and free spirit. They
have helped to convert this barren wilderness
into a fruitful field; they ave been one with
the people in all their labors. Then why should


they not enjoy the fruits of that labor? Why
should strangers enjoy what they have earned?
Besides, it is the voice of the people, and have
they not the right of choice? We claim that
right. We have no fellowship for traitors or
cowards. We look with scorn and contempt
upon anything in the shape of a man that will
prove recreant to his God, that will repudiate
and cast away his wives, that will brand his
offspring with shame! We have no language
to express our scorn and loathing for such des-
picable cowards, but we leave them to the tor-
ments of their own consciences.
	We will still raise our voices in defense of
the principle of our holy religion; we will still
declare that the Almighty has again spoken
from the heavens, and that the holy Priesthood
has been restored to man with all its power and
authority, and that the principles which we in-
corporate in our religion are by the command-
ment of God, and we believe it right to obey
the same, and no one has the right to curtail
us in our religious rites; we have the right to
differ in our opinions, and to be sustained in
that right.
	Praying for the advancement of the kingdom
of God, and the success of the EXPONENT, the
woman's organ of Utah, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of truth,
						S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., May 10, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PATTY SESSIONS.
			Continued.
	During the first winter at Winter Quarters,
on the borders of the Missouri River, it was
quite common for the sisters to hold meetings
to pray and exercise faith for those who had
been left behind, that they might be permitted
to join them, as also to give them courage to
pursue their journey into the wilderness, as it
was termed a place of freedom and safety.
	On the 14th of February Sister Sessions
says Sister Zina Young, Eliza Snow, Catherine
Markham and herself met at Sister Presendia
Kimball's to pray for her daughter Sylvia and
her child, that the way might be opened for
them to come to the Saints. They had a good
time and spoke in tongues and received the in-
terpretation and enjoyed a good degree of the
Spirit of the Lord. X
	On the 23rd there was a sort of a feast made
for the widows and orphans, in the Council
House, and Sister Sessions speaks of cooking
for it.
	On Friday, the 26th, she speaks of being with
Mary, wife of Wm. Kimball, in her confine-
ment, with her second daughter afterwards,
called Marion.
	On Sunday, the 28th, she speaks of being at
a similar meeting to the one before mentioned,
at her own house, where the Spirit of the Lord
was poured out in rich abundance, and the
sisters rejoiced greatly in the influence and
power of its gifts. From this time Sister Ses-
sions writes daily of her visits to the sick, her
household duties, her carding and spinning
and labors of various kinds, her thoughts and
reflections upon the critical situation of the
people and her faith that all would work to-
gether for good. Almost every day she officia-
ted where one or two children were born, and
thus, we see, that although the Saints were
scattered, as it were, and compelled to flee
from their homes, Zion was still growing and
increasing in numbers and strength.
	Sunday, March 14th, Sister Sessions says,
"Sister E. R. Snow came to see me and brought
me a poem that she had written for me." This
poem is inserted in the diary, and we publish
it as given.

	COMPOSED FOR MRS. PATTY SESSIONS, BY MISS
		E. R. SNOW, MARCH 15TH, 1847

	Truth and holiness and love,
	Wisdom, honor, joy and peace--

[Column 2]
	That which cometh from above,
		In your pathway shall increase.

	Thus the Spirit of the Lord
		In your bosom shall abide:
	And produce a rich reward,
		While the "still small voice" shall guide."

	Faith and holy confidence,
		That will bear your spirit up,
	Shall henceforward recompense
		All the bitter of your cup.

	Righteous are your heart's desire,
		And they will not be denied;
	But our Father oft requires
		That our patience shall be tried.

	Though He should at times withhold
		Longer than your hopes expect:
	You'll receive a double fold
		When His wisdom shall direct.

	Therefore, let your spirit rest--
		God will order all things well;
	And ere long you will be blest
		More than human speech can tell.

	And the Lord Himself will spread
		Thro your heart a holy pride
	Of your chosen earthly head
		Your companion by your side.

	Mutual shall your blessings be--
		Mutual joys shall crown your way:
	Thus in time:--Eternity
		Opens to a brighter day.

	Thursday, March 16th, 1847. Siste Sessions
writes in her diary, "I visited the sick, among
them Mary Pierce. She died to-day. Wed-
nesday, 17th, she was buried and I went to the
funeral Brigham Young preached. After
attending the funeral I went to visit the sick,
and my husband went with me to see the
Widow Coleman's stepdaughter; we adminis-
tered to her and she was healed."
	One can easily understand how much people
appreciated a little meat in those days by read-
ing the following:
	"Friday, 26th, Bro. Belnap sent me a
quarter of a deer, and I divided it with Sis-
ters Kimball and Buel; the same day I attend-
ed a special meeting, where Brigham Young
preached. Sunday, 28th, went to meeting; all
the Twelve that are here preached."


[Column 1]
	MORMON WOMEN.

	Many of the Mormon women, as well as the
men, are passing through a trying time, and
were it not for their faith in the Gospel, and
its saving principles, it would seem that many
have almost more than they can bear.
	Mormon women, as a rule, (who are blessed
with a husband who is living in the line of his
duty, who is true to his God and his cove-
nans) love their husbands with the purest,
strongest love. Therefore, it would be folly to
think that they can see them forced from their
presence, and from their homes and innocent
children, for a period of months or years,with-
out so much as a chance for a farewell word,
to be locked behind prison bars, at wander as
an exile, encountering all kinds of discom-
forts and dangers, without acute suffering and
anguish? But this is what some of our sisters
have had to endure in the last few months.
Others have had to leave their homes and
friends and seek an asylum among strangers;
some at a time when home comforts were most
needed; in some instances mothers are separa-
ted from their little ones, who sorely need a
mother’s care.
	These are some of the trials inflicted on
these women right at the present time, now, in
the year of 1885; and who is responsible for
these things? Not the men who figured promi-
nently in the mobbing of the Saints, forty or
fifty years ago, in the early rise of the Church,
but those officious officials, who live and flour-

[Column 2]
ish now. Many have wondered how such out-
rages could be perpetrated in the States of
Missouri and Illinois, forty years ago, when lo!
here they are being enacted again right in the
blaze of our advanced civilization and en-
lightenment. Delicate women have been made
to suffer the most exquisite torture of mind.
Some have been incarcerated in prison, and
all for the sake of our religious convictions.
But do we feel to bemoan our fate? Not at
all; we feel to pass through what it is our lot
to suffer with a cheerful spirit, realizing that
though they may destroy the body, they have
no power over the soul, and if they can afford
to inflict this suffering upon us we can certainly
afford to suffer at their hands, for it is very
true that “There is no lane so long but it has
a turning," and no matter what we may suffer
through their usurpation of power, we can
truly pity them for their blindness and folly;
for “Having sown the wind they will surely
reap the whirlwind,” unless they speedily re-
pent and humble themselves before God, for it
is His cause and people whom they are fight-
ing, and we do know there is a just God, who
hears the cry of the widow and the fatherless,
who will take cognizance of the suffering and
anguish of those brave, true men who have
dared to obey His command, and remain firm
and true to their families, and in consequence
of which they have been cast into prison, or
become exiles from their once happy homes.
The suffering of those wives and innocent
children, who are thus deprived of their na-
tural protector,of his love and care, will not go
long unheeded.
	With all we have to pass through, I feel I
am safe in saying, there are none of us who
would, on any consideration, change places
with the wives of our persecutors. What
woman, possessing the spirit of the Gospel,
would part with a husband having the true
elements of a man engrafted in his nature, the
courage of a lion, mingled with gentleness and
love, even though she might be one of three or
four whom he honors, loves and protects, for
one of those vile, corrupt, cruel-hearted
creatures who bear the outward semblance of
men, but who are ravaging wolves, seeking
whom they may destroy. We would not ex-
change places for the wealth of the Indies.
	We feel capable of managing our family af-
fairs without any of their assistance, and I
fancy if they will turn their attention to their
own domestic matters they will find enough to
keep them busy.
	They give us the name of being ignorant,
low and degraded, but I think they will find
we have enough sense to shun and despise
those human vultures who seek our ruin.
	I pray God that we may ever prove true to
our religion, to our God and to our noble hus-
bands.	MARGUERITE.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending April 28th, 1885, as follows:
	Mary P. C. Hooper, New York, N. Y.,
Grated Shovel,
	Betsey A. Maxey, Knoxville, Ill., Car Coup-
ling.
	Lucinda Meekin, Cedar Town, Ga., Vehicle
Wheel-hub.
	Anna A. Wysong, Baltimore, Md., Ironing-
Board and Table.

	The following patents were issued to women
for the week ending May 5th, 1835.
	Eliza C. Atwood, Geneva, N. Y., Dustpan.
	Phoebe J. Cunningham, Amber, Ia, Flower-
stand.
	Ann M. Freeman, Kansas City, Mo., Dress-
cutting Rule.
	Mamie F. Frey, Indianapolis, Ind., Button
hook Holder for Shoes.
	Nellie S. Stowell, New York, N. Y., Sharpen
ing Tool.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IMPROMPTU LINES.

	SUGGESTED ON VISITING THE PENITENTIARY,
	MAY 24TH, 1885.

  The prison—yes within the prison
	I have seen the noble men !—
Home and freedom taken from them
	Mured within the hateful, "pen!"

Wives and children severed from them,
	Not because they were untrue,
Not because they failed to render
	To each one their portion due;

Not because their love had wandered,
	Into bad forbidden ways,
Not because their wealth they squandered
	In licentious nights and days.	
	
Such a course would be applauded
	Such a mode is fashion's law—
Be like us, and we'll reward you,
	Tho' with cart ropes sin you draw!

Tears rose up, and well nigh chok'd me,
	But I forced them to their cell;
Glad I am I shut the flood gates
	Down upon my heart's deep well.

Not in robes of regal splendor
	Could I view you, as I do,
Homage of my soul I render
	Without effort unto you.

Men and brethren, how I love you!
	With a love the angels feel
Such a love as God inspires,
	Love that lives thro' woe or weal!

Tho my heart and brain sustain you,
	Still my pride is mixed with grief;
Silent joy, and silent sorrow,
	Only bring my soul relief.

Glad I am that I have seen you.
	Glad am I you all feel well;
Prayers for you will be ascending
	While in durance you must dwell,

In the arms of God I leave you,
	Knowing He will hold you up;
While for righteous laws you suffer,
	While you drink the bitter cup.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, May 25, 1885.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG
		Continued.
	"Verily I say unto<i loiri="" ,="" “--="" i="" hr="" 1="" jwi="" t="" tcdhlinued?"1="" ri-!:?n!=""> you, who have assembled 
yourselves together, that you may learn my
will concerning the redemption of mine afflict-
ed people: 
	Behold, I say unto you, were it not tor, the
transgressions of my people, speaking concern-
ing the Church, and not as individuals, they
might have been redeemed even now: but be-
hold, they have not learned to be obedient to
the things that I require  of their hands, but
are full of all manner of evil, and do not im-
part of their substance, as becometh Saints, to
the poor and afflicted among them, and are
not united according to the union required by 
the law of the celestial kingdom, otherwise I
cannot receive her unot myself; and my people
must be chastened until they learned obedience,
if it must needs be by the things which they
suffer.
	I speak not concerning those who are appoint-
ed to lead my people, who are the first Elders
of my Church, for they are not all under this
condemnation; but I speak concerning my
Churches abroad: there are many who will say,
'Where is there God? Behold, He will deliver
in time of trouble; otherwise we will not go up
unto Zion, and will keep our moneys.' There-
fore, in consequence of the transgression of my
people, it is expedient in me that mine Elders
should wait for a little season for the redemp-
tion of Zion, that they themselves may be pre-
pared, and that my people may be taught more
perfectly, and have more experience and know
more perfectly concerning their duty, and the
things whihc I requireat their hand; and this
cannot be brought to pass until mine Elders
are endowed with power from on high: for be-
hold, I have prepared a great endowment and 
blessing to be poured out upon them, inasmuch
as they are faithful, and continue in humility
before me; therefore, it is expedient in me that
mine Elders should wait for a little season for
the redemption of Zion, for behold, I do not
require at their hands to fight the battles of
Zion; for, as I said in a former commandment, 
even so I will fulfill, I will fight your battles.
	Behold, the destroyer I have sent forth to
destroy and lay waste mine enemies; and not
many years hence they shall not be left to pol-
lute mine heritage, and to blaspheme my name
upon the lands which I have consecrated for
the gathering together of my Saints.
	Behold, I have commanded my servant;
Baurak, he to say unto the strength of my
house, even my warriors, my young men and
middle aged, to gather togather for the redemp-
tion of my people, and throw down the towers
of mine enemies, and scatter their watchmen;
but the strength of mine house hath not
hearkened unto my words; but inasmuch as
there are those who have hearkened unto my
wors, I have prepared a blessing and an en-
dowment for them, if they continue faithful; I
have heard their prayers, and will accept their
offering, and it is expedient in me that they
should be brought thus far for a trial of their
faith. And now, verily I say unto you, that
as many as have come  hither, that can stay
in the region round about, let them stay; and
those that cannot stay, who  have families‘m
the east, let them tarry for a little season in-
asmuch as my servant joseph shall appoint
unto them, for I will counsel him concerning
this matter, and all things whatsoever he shall
appoint unto them shall be fulfilled.
	And left all my people who dwell in the
regions round about be very faithful and
humble before me, and reveal not the things
which I have revealed unto them, until it is
wisdom in me that they should be revealed.
talk not of judgment, neither boast of faith,
nor of many works, but carefully gather to-
gether, as much in one region as can be con-
sistently with the feelings of the people, and
behold, I will give unto you favor and grace in
their eyes, that you may rest in peace and
safety while you are saying unto the people,
execute judgment and justice for us according
to law, and redress us of our wrongs.
	Now, behold, I say unto you, my friends, in
this way you may  favor in the eyes of the
people, until the army of Israel becomes very
great; and will soften the hearts of the peo-
ple, as I did the heart of Pharaoh, from time
to time, until my servant Baurak Ale and
	Baneemy, whom I have appointed, shall have
time to gather up the strength of my house,
and to have sent wise men to fulfill that which
I have commanded concerning the purchasing
of the lands in Jackson County, that can be
purchased, and in the adjoining counties
round about, for it is my will that these lands
should be purchased, and after they are pur-
chased that my Saints should possess them ac-
cording to the laws of consecration which I
have been given; and after these lands are purchased
I will hold the armies of Israel guiltless in
taking possession of their own lands, which
they have previously purchased with their
moneys, and of throwing down the towers of
mine enemies that may be upon them, and
scattering their watchmen, and avenging me of
mine enemies, unto the third and fourth genera-
tion of them that hate me. But firstly let my
army become very great, and let it be sancti-
fied before me, that it may become fair as thtr
sun, and clear as the moon, and that her ban-
ners may be terrible unto all nations, that
the kingdoms, of this world may be constrained
to acknowledge that the kingdom of Zion is in
very deed, the kingdom  our God and Hi3
Christ: therefore let is be subject unto her
laws.  -	1  
Verily I say unto you, it is expedient in me
that the first Elders of my Church should re- 
ceive their endowments from on high, in ray
house, which I have commanded to be built
Unto my name in the land of Kirtland, and
let those commandments which I have given
concerning' Zion and her laws be executed and
fulfilled alter her redemption.
 There has been a day of calling, but the
time has come for a day of choosing, and let
those be chosen that are worthy, and it shall be.
manifested unto my servant, by the voice of my
Spirit, those that are chosen, and they shall be
sanctified; and inasmuch as they follow the
counsel which they receive they shall have
power, after many days, to accomplish all
things pertaining to Zion.
 And again I say unto you, sue for peace; not
Only the people that have smitten you, but also
to all people; and lift up an ensign of peace,
and make a proclamation for peace unto the
ends of the earth; and make proposals for
peace unto those who have smitten you, ac-
cording to the voice of the spirit which is in
you, and all things shall work together for your
good: therefore,  faithful, and behold, and
lo! I am with you even unto the end; even so.
Amen.”
 I did not intend to insert the whole of the
foregoing revelation, but I found nothing to
leave out; and perhaps it may be better under-
stood to read it in connection with the circum-
stances that called it forth. 
	"About this time," the Prophet says, " Bro's 
Thayre and Hayes (in Zion's camp) were at- 
tacked with the cholera, and Brother Hanock 
was taken during the storm. I called the
camp together and told them that in conse-
quence of the disobedience of some who
had been unwilling to listen to my words, but
had rebelled, God had decreed that sickness
should come upon them and that they should 
die like sheep with the rot; that I was sorry,
but I could not help it. Previous to this, while
on our journey, I had predicted and warned
them of the danger of such chastisement, but
there is some who would not give heed to my
words.
	"On the 23rd resumed our march for Liberty,
Clay-County, taking a circuitous course round
the head of Fishing River to avoid the deep
water. When within five or six miles of
Liberty we were met by Gen. Atchison and
other; gentlemen, who desired us not to go to
Liberty,.as the feelings of the people were so
enraged against us. At their communication
wa wheeled to the left, and crossing the prairie
and woodland came to Sidney Gilbert's resi-
dence, and encamped on the bank of Ittish
Creek, in Brother Burghart's field.
	"During this a council of High Priests as- 
sembled in fulfilment of the revelation given
the day previous, and the following individuals
were called and chosen as they were made
manifest unto me by the vioce of the Spirit
and revelation to receive their endowment:
Edward Partridge was called and chosen to go
to Kirtland and receive his endowment with
power from on high, and also to stand in his
office as Bishop, to purchase lands in the State
of Missouri." Several others were called and
chosen at this time to go to Kirtland and re-
ceive their endowments.
	"The same day the Elders made the follow-
ing reply, as before referred to. to S. E. Owens
and others, committee of the Jackson County
mob."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Late City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates; Each square. ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room No. 4, upstairs. Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street,  a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
		THE TOPIC OF THE DAY:

	The all-absorbing topic of the day is the
present crusade, for it can be called nothing bet-
ter, against the Latter-day Saints, the different
methods pursued to entrap and ensnare men into
the hands of the enemy.  It might be interesting
as a study if it were not so intensely cruel in its
effects upon an innocent and inoffensive people.
	The impaneling of the jury is in itself a miser-
able parody upon justice, and not at all according
to the American idea of being tried by one's peers,
of which men, everywhere, talk with such pride.
	The Commissioner's office seems to be a regu-
lar trap set on purpose to deceive people, and
when they are told the Grand Jury are not in
session, and they feel comparatively at ease so
far as deputy Marshals and spies are concerned;
they are arrested without any notice and taken
before the Commissioner and bound over in bonds,
etc. Witnesses are also questioned and bound
over, and if they do not answer the most insolent
questions, sent up for contempt.  How many
women might be sent to the penitentiary in a
day in the City of New York, or even good old
Boston, or Quaker Philadelphia, if women were
arrested and taken before a commissioner and
plyed with the same sort of questions?  If they
were as unwilling to reply as Lucy Devereaux
their penitentiaries would soon be full.
	However this is at random, for they don't
ask them who the fathers of their children
are, nor they don't provide even a peniten-
tiary to put them in, but let them crawl into
any corner or hovel they like, or let good and noble
women, who have the courage and humanity to
do it, provide places of refuge for these unfortun-
ate creatures and their helpless offspring, or they
are lost altogether and die of disease and want;
and who is to blame?  Not legislators or con-
gressmen, they have no time to regulate such
things; their business is to see after those who
enter the "marriage relation," and who provide
homes and comforts and luxuries for their wives
and their children.
	Their business is to make laws that will dis-
franchise the very men and women who have
spent their lives in building up the country and
making an oasis in the desert, where all may find
a resting place in peace and security, and having
founded homes and habitations, built up cities
and towns, fostered institutions of learning and
established governments in accordance with the
laws and Constitution of the United States, in
fact having to the best of their ability acted up to
the rights and privileges given to free citizens of
this great Republic, after all this to be deprived of
all the rights and privileges  that make up the sum
of human happiness, to be subject to imprison-
ment and fines, to be tried by a jury not of one's 
peers, but of men who have no conception of the
high sense of honor and nobility that character-
izes men who have taken upon themselves sacred
and holy covenants, is a fact at which the heart
turns sick, and one turns away appalled with this
semblance of justice in a land of religious free-
dom.  Alas! for the banner of liberty that floats
over the land of the free and the home of the
brave."  What tragedies are enacted under

[Column 2]
its sheltering folds.  "How have the mighty
fallen!"
	The high handed manner in which the law has
been administered in Idaho surpasses even what
has occurred in Utah, and yet such injustice goes
unpunished, and "our poor country" must suffer
for the misdeeds of ruthless plunderers and car-
pet baggers.
	The Edmunds law has been pronounced Con-
stitutional by the Supreme Court of the United
States, and whatever may be the opinion of men
and women concerning the matter, the reverence
they have for the country which they love and
honor, will give them grace and courage to submit
to the enforcement of the law, but they have a
right to protest against the one-sided administra-
tion of it, and against the wicked and unjust pro-
ceedings of officials sent here to administer it.
	But if men think for one moment there is no
God in this matter, they fall into an egregious
error. Men may scoff and ridicule the Latter-
day Saints, even as the Jews did the Savior thou-
sands of years ago, but they will, ere long, find to
their shame and sorrow that God lives and reigns,
that He is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob,
and that He honors those who do the works of
Abraham, and who are not afraid to be found
serving Him, though all the powers of darkness
conspire to hinder them.
	There are many things that might be worse
than this crusade, bad as it is, and, there-
fore, the Saints ought not to murmur, for
were a devastating sickness to cover all the
land, as has been prophecied of again and
again, there would be more sorrow and greater
trials than those through which the people
are now passing.  There can be no doubt
that trials such as the people are experiencing
now will be salutary and beneficial in their effects
however hard it may seem.
	The brethren who are in prison feel well; they
are comforted by the Holy Spirit, and their famil-
ies rejoice that they are worthy to suffer for the
Gospel's sake.
	Many who were faint-hearted before, and es-
pecially among the young people, are growing
stronger in defense of the principles of the Gospel,
and this is something most desirable and gratify-
ing, and for which the Saints certainly have rea-
son to rejoice, for it is upon the rising generation
the burden of the work of building up Zion must
inevitably fall.  And Zion will be established in
beauty and glory, notwithstanding persecution
wages fierce and strong, and the clouds hang
heavy and dark at the present time, the storm will
clear up.
	There is no fear in the hearts of those who are
keeping the commandments of God, for they
know all will be well, though they may feel very
deeply the situation in which the Saints are now
placed.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	WE are pleased to acknowledge the gift of a 
bouquet of the choicest and most beautiful flowers
imaginable, from the garden of Sister Martha
McKay of this city.  The fragrance was most
delightful, and these emblems of purtiy, con-
stancy and affection are always grateful to a lover
of nature.  Several other gifts of violets,lilacs, etc.,
deserve mention, but we must not forget the large
and lovely bouquet from a little Primary girl in
the Nineteenth Ward.  Many, many thanks.
	MRS. M. I. HORNE, Prest. of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion, wishes to state  the dif-
ferent branch Presidents that have not procured
the new and improved blanks for making out re-
ports, that they can obtain them from her; also
that the semi-annual report will be required for
the Stake Conference in the latter part of July,
and a copy of it will answer for the Relief Society
Conference, which will be held about the middle

[Column 2, article cont.]
﻿or 20th of September.  Therefore, at the June
Conference, only verbal reports will be required.
The next Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held on the 26th and 27th of June.
	THE closing exercises at the University this
year were more than usually interesting.  The
large study room was crowded with students and
visitors.  Prayer was offered by Hon. H.S.Eldredge.
The University singing class, under Prof. E.
Stephens, furnished music for the occasion. Prof.
T. B. Lewis made an eloquent opening address,
and an appropriate and feeling valedictory was
given by Charles England, normal student, from
Hyde Park.  President J. R. Park responded in
a suitable address, and after giving some special
advice to the normal department, presented di-
plomas to the normal graduates, fourteen in num-
ber, from different parts of the Territory.  The
chorus “Good Bye”was rendered by lhe singers,
and Hon. Wm. Jennings, Regent of the institu-
tion, pronounced the benediction. 
	THE annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Nineteenth Ward was held in the
meeting house, on Tuesday last, May 19th, com-
mencing at 2 p.m., Counselor, Miss Ella Nebeker,
presiding in the absence of the President.  Child-
ren sang, “In our lovely Deseret."  Prayer by
Elder E. Beesley.  Singing, “Gather up the sun-
beams.” Minutes read and approved.  Yearly
report read and accepted.  This Primary, has two
manuscript papers, one by the girls and one by
the boys. “The Gem,” No. 1 of Vol 5 was read
by the editor, Miss Dora Bowman.  It contained
original poems, essays, etc., indicating consider-
able talent, and was very well read.  Miss Violet
Nebeker, organist.  The programme was as fol-
lows: Song,Katie and Euphemia Irvine, "Weep-
ing Willow;"  Original Poem, entitled "Presecu-
tion," by Miss Olive Derbidge, read by herself,
was an interesting feature of the programme;
Essay, "The Sabbath Day,"  Master Wm. Neal;
Song, "Mama's Boy and Papa's Man;"  Verses
from the Bible, Master John Pugsley; Song and
accompaniment, Freddie Derbidge, Freddie Ridges
and Alvin Beesley; Song, Amy and Rachel Col-
lett, "Never forget the dear ones around the social
hearth; Song, Julius Billeter and Claude Ridges;
Song, Misses Bertha Irvine, Addie Solomon,
Lydia Kiddle and J. Galligar:  Dialogue, Annie
and Emma Hamlin; Verses from Christ's Sermon
on the Mount, one of the Ridges' boys; Alvin
Beesley and Johnnie Pike,Boat song, with chorus.
This finished the programme, which showed great
improvement in the children, and special training
by the President and her assistants.  Remarks
were made by Sisters E. C. Clawson and E. B.
Wells, also by the president of the Relief Socity,
Sister Rachel Whipple, and her counselors, Sis-
ters Annie E. Neal and Ann Player, also by Sis-
ters C. C. Raleigh, Jane Macduff and Mary
Irvine, and by Elder E. Beesley.  The young
girls who have charge of the Association certain-
ly manage it in a very admirable manner, and are
deserving of great credit. 
	THE annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion at Big Cottonwood, was held at the ward
house on Friday, May 23rd, at eleven a.m., Mrs.
Ellen Sutherland presiding.  Singing, and prayer
by Bro. Mumford.  Singing.  Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved.  There were
about one hundred children present, about equal-
ly divided, boys and girls.  Programme of exer-
cises:	“Somebody’s Mother,” Master John
Quist; Dialogue, eight little girls; a song; Recita-
tion, “Twelve things to be avoided;"  seven girls
and boys reading in concert "Arthur's Prayer;”
Isabel McDonald song, "The Old Hat;"  Song
and chorus by half a dozen girls; Master Mc-
onald, recitation; Valeria Brinton, essay on
“Good Order;” Recitation Elizabeth Andrews,
and some other exercises, all creditably rendered,
completed the programme.  Remarks were made


by Sisters E. C. Clawson, L, A. Wells, Camilla
Cobb, E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells.  Sister
Emily Stevenson was nominated and unanimously
sustained as Assistant Counselor to Sister
Sutherland, and Luella Brinton and Valeria Brin-
ton as Assistant Secretaries.  They were also ad-
dressed by Isabella McGhie and Mary AcAllister,
also by Counselor J. C. Casto, Bro. Worthington,
Supt of the Sunday School, and Bro. Hanson,
Prest. of the Y. M. M. I. A. of that ward. The
benediction was pronounced by Master Francis
McDonald.  The meeting was followed by a 
Childrens' Fair, in an adjoining room, where a 
great variety of articles, made by the little people,
were on exhibition.  There was plain and fancy
sewing in various useful articles, as well as some
ornamental, crochet work. in baskets, tidies, cush-
ions, etc., wool and wax flowers, quilt and rugs,
baskets, and also cooking by the girls- bread,
butter and cakes, all displaying the skill and in-
genuity of these industrious and intelligent small
folks.  The little boys had on exhibition some ar-
ticles in wood work and a specimen of blacksmith-
ing; in all a pretty good showing.  Tables were
set in the hall, and about three hundred, in-
cluding the children, partook of a bounteous re-
past.  Master George McDonald asked the bless-
ing at the table.  The meeting and fair both
passed off satisfactorily, and Sister Sutherland
and her assistants in this good labor must feel
gratified with the degree of success they have 
achieved.

     THE annual meeting of the four districts of Mill
Creek was held on Tuesday, May 26th, commence-
ing at 10 a.m., at the ward meeting house, Mrs.
Mary McAllister, President, second district,
presiding in the forenoon.  After singing, prayer
was offered by Elder Wm. Hill; then singing.
Minutes read and approved.  Programme of
second district.  Questions and answers from the
children in concert; Dialogue, "Put yourself in
my place," by two boys; Recitation, by a young
girl, song by four Misses Bowden, "Then wake
again the songs of old ," very sweetly sung; Reci-
tation; then an essay on "Honesty," Annie
Bowden; very good; Organ Solo, by Luetta Corn-
well, very well rendered; Recitation, by Leslie
Bowden, five years old.  Miss Mary Belle White
was nominated and sustained as Secretary for
conjoint district meetings.  Remarks by Sister
E. C. Clawson, after which there were exercises
from the P. A. of the first district. Recitation,
Blanche Williams, a very little girl; Recitation,
Master John Bolton; Dialogue, by five girls; Reci-
tation, Elizabeth Cook; Recitation, Master Walter
Anderson; Dialogue, two little girls; Recitation,
Master Thomas Gunderson.  Remarks were
made by E. R. S. Smith and Bishop Hamilton.
The children sang the "Word of Wisdom."
Benediction by Bishop James Hamilton.  After-
noon session, at 2 p.m., Mrs. Francis Hanson, of
the third district, presiding.  After singing, prayer
and singing the programme was carried out as
follows:  Recitation, "A Christmas Eve Adven-
ture," by Basha Snedaker; Dialogue, three boys;
Song, two little girls, "I'd be  butterfly," very
beautifully rendered; Recitation, by a very little
girl; Dialogue, four young girls; Recitation, a 
young girl, then a song. after which the pro-
gramme of the fourth district was given, which
consisted of a recitation, by a little girl; Dialogue,
wo little girls; Recitation, a little girl; Song, two
little girls.  This concluded the programme for
 the day, followed by remarks from Sisters E. B.
Wells, L. A. Wells and E. C. Clawson, who gave 
the children two maxims to be remembered and
observed by them-- "Return good for evil," and
"It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong."
Sister E. R. S. S. then made some impressive re-
marks to the children, and Counselor Snedaker
followed with encouraging words.  Mrs. Ann
Morgan was chosen and sustained as Assistant
Counselor to Mrs. Francis Hanson of the third

[column 2]
district. During the day a report was read from
each district, showing the energy and labors of
the Association.  We must not fail to mention
Bro. Nathanial Bowden, who has taken very
great pains to instruct the children in singing, and
they are certainly indebted to him for progress and
harmony in this direction.  Meeting closed by
singing, "We want to see the Temple."  Benedic-
tion by Elder Jens Hansen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.
	The Ladies' semi-monthly meeting was held in
the Assembly Rooms in the 14th Ward of this
City, Saturday, May 16th, at 2 p.m., Sister M. I.
Horne presiding.  After singing prayer was of-
fered by Sister Caroline Raleigh.  Then singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read, and also
minutes from the Y. L. of the 15th and 20th
Wards, and P. A. of the 5th, 4th and 15th
Wards.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in which
she referred to the condition of the Latter-day
Saints at the present time, and said if we would
become strong in God’s might we must be very
faithful in keeping His commandments. “There
is an order in the kingdom of God which we must
obey and if we do not do this we are treading on
dangerous ground. The Lord will bring about
His purposes, and His ways are not our ways."
Spoke of the opinions the world entertain in re-
gard to us as a people; thought that our persecu-
tions were in fulfillment of Scripture.  Said, "Let
us be calm and press forward and we will come off
victorious."
	The Presidents of Relief Society were then in-
vited to speak, and Sisters Diana Reid, Margaret
McMaster and Ann Player responded; also Sister
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith spoke a short time
about the Deseret Hospital.  Said, "It is now
time to pay our annual membership fee," and
hoped all would respond, as there was need of
funds at the present time to keep up the institu-
tion, and if there were any sisters who could fur-
nish some rag carpet it would be very accept-
able.
	Remarks were afterwards made by Sisters Mary
Ann Pratt, Caroline Raleigh and M. A. E. Wat-
mough.
	Prest. Horne made a few closing remarks, and 
the meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah."
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.


MRS. MARY J. HOLMES.

     This clever and talented writer visited Salt
Lake recently in company with her husband, Mr.
Daniel Holmes. Mr. and Mrs. Holmes reside in
Brockport, near Rochester, New York. The
gentleman is a lawyer by profession, and while
traveling in the west is corresponding for a
Rochester paper. Both husband and wife are
people of culture and literary attainments. Mrs.
Holmes is perhaps as well known and as much
loved, through her books, as any woman in
America. Like other authors she has a style of
her own, and it is one very fascinating, especially
to the young.
	She commenced writing stories when very
young, and her first novel was written when she
was fifteen years of age. She is still writing and
publishing, and is not engaged upon a book en-
titled "Tracy Park." She only writes about three
hours in a day, usually from nine to twelve in the
morning.
     Mrs. Holmes is very pleasing in conversation,
self-possessed, gentle and lady-like, without the
least ostentation or seeming desire to be known
at once as the celebrated authoress. She is tall
and graceful in figure, with a pleasant face, which
bespeaks candor and amiability, yet marked with


the individuality that tells its own story of the
author and the woman.
   Mrs.Holmes expressed herself as delighted with
our beautiful city and its surroundings, and ap-
preciated the attentions shown her by those she
had the pleasure of meeting while here. She
seemed to be especially gratified with her visit to
the Lion House to see Sister Eliza, and intends
writing her impressions of this remarkable
woman.
   Mrs. Holmes had no bitterness in her heart to-
wards our people, but seemed very anxious to
learn all she could of our belief and our institu-
tions.


MRS. ELLEN E. DICKINSON

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     You asked me to give you my thoughts and
feelings on Mrs. Dickinson's book, "New Light
on Mormonism,"  but my mind is perfectly dark
upon where the new light, or any true light comes
in. I confess my sense of truth and justice only
allowed me to "dip in" to such a tirade of gross
misrepresentations, for, indeed, my time is too
precious to read such libels, written in such a
flippant, impertinent, not to say impudent style,
exhibiting the assumption of a mind determined
to abuse and misrepresent the people she has set
down to make a book about, of course for money,
and a love of pandering to the vatiated taste of
the age.  Throughout the pages she sins against
light and knowledge, and if by accident tells a
truth, that is admirable about the Mormons, in the
very next sentence she asserts some outrageous
lie to counteract any good influence she thinks
she might have thrown over her readers.
     I should consider it beneath the dignity of a
Latter-day Saint to attempt to "enter the lists"
with such a contemptible opponent! Silence is
the only commentary for such a scribbler. She is
of the Kate Field school, in which such characters
show by their writings and effusions that they
have taken the professorship of Diablerie.
H. T. K.


A STRANGE PHENOMENON.

 We learn from the papers that the Rev. Henry
Ward Beecher calls our religion a strange phe-
nomenon.  I think it quite as strange that any
person who loves and reveres the Savior of the
world, as he seemed to have done, could ignore
this latter day work.
 I well remember reading a lecture delivered by
this reverend gentleman some time since, in which
he expressed his love for the Savior in the high-
est terms imaginable.  His prayer, too, was very
devotional.  I quite enjoyed the spirit it breathed,
and exclaimed, "Such a person will certainly ap-
preciate and accept the message which has in-
spired us to action."
 The lecture was delivered to the cadets of a
military school, in one of the eastern cities.  This
reverend gentleman is considered to be a man of
sound mind and good judgment, and how he can
prefer the state the world is in to-day, to the
lessons taught by our Great Law Giver, the
Savior, I cannot understand.
 The message sent to us is to live in the most
strict obedience to the laws of Christ, that we
may be prepared to receive Him when He comes
to reign on the earth.
 Certainly the most reasonable ideas we could
conceive of.  Those who cannot comprehend
such must be blind indeed, and classed with those
the Savior called blind leaders of the blind.  Yet
we remember that not many wise men after the
flesh, not many mighty, were chosen. So Paul
says, "Knowledge puffeth up; but charity
edifieth.”  A person who has been popular for
any length of time can not afford to lose his good


name, and we can not afford to give up our faith
for theirs. It will never satisfy, because it is not
perfect.
		M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, May 22nd.

CORRESPONDENCE.

	OMER, Round Valley, Arizona, May 6th, '85.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would write a few lines to let you
know how we are getting along in this far off
country.
	Our Society is in a good condition, as well as
the other associations. The sisters are feeling
well considering the circumstances. Two of the
brethren are in prison, one in Detroit the other
in Yuma, while many others are absent; but we
feel that it is all right, that the work of the Lord
is rolling on, and all we have to do is to live our
religion, and stand still and see the salvation of
the Lord.
	We prize the EXPONENT very much. It always
comes like an old friend that we have been waiting
to see.
	Your sister in the covenant of peace.
		E. J. BURK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			  -------
		 EAST HARRISVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   We have been called to part with one of our
young ladies, Sister Emma Taylor, daughter of
P. G. and Jane N. Taylor, who departed this
life on the 22nd of March after an illness of
only two days.  It has cast a gloom over the
ward, but the Lord’s will be done, and not
ours.
	The Relief Society hold their meetings every
two weeks; there is always a goodly number
present. Our worthy President and Counsel-
ors are trying to do the best they can, always
giving good counsel, and we enjoy the Spirit of
the Lord in our meetings to a very great ex-
tent.  Our Bishop, P. G. Taylor meets with us
very often aud gives us good counsel, and en-
courages the sisters in their good works.
	We have on hand, wheat, 275 bushels;
property, $14; cash, $15; cash out on interest,
$150; and have donated to the Ogden Taber-
nacle $14 in cash this year.
	This is my first attempt to address a few lines
to the Exponent. I have taken that valuable
little paper four years.  My husband joins
with me in reading it, and we enjoy it very
much; it reminds us of what our parents have
passed through in days that are past and gone,
as well as the troubles at the present time.
	Ever wishing the Exponent success, I re-
main,	 Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, Prest,
		MARY E. KEYES, Sec.
				--------
	HEBER, LUNA VALLEY, NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   As I am a reader of your valuable little
paper, and have seen no communications from
this isolated settlement ,hence the liberty I take
to penning a few lines to you, concerning the
Primary Association, hoping you will give
them space in your paper.
	The Heber Ward Primary Association was
organized October 26th, 1884, by Bishop G.
C. Williams with Virginia Curtis, President;
Eveline Lee and Mary Swapp, Counselors;
Mary Williams, Secretary; Sarah Ellsworth,
Assistant Secretary; George Williams Treas-
urer, and thirty-two members enrolled; they
now number sixty-two.  The little ones have
made great progress in a short time. They
gave an entertainment the first day of May,
which consisted of crowning the May Queen,
songs, recitations, dialogues, etc.  All gave
such satisfaction that we cannot mention names.
In the afternoon the little folks went forth in
a dance and picnic.  All enjoyed themselves—
parents in seeing their little ones have pleasure.
A party was given at night for the adults, the
proceeds to go for the benefit of the Associa-
tion.  So, you see, we are trying to imitate the
settlements of our dearly loved Utah as much
as we can in our feeble way.  The health of
the people, in general, is good.
	Wishing for the success of the Exponent,
and all those who are trying to help forward
the great work, I remain, 
		     One of your sisters,
						      E. V. C.

BURNHAM, NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   As there has been no mention of our affairs
in this far off place for some time, I thought
it would be well to speak once more, lest we be
forgotten, or at least, thought spiritually dead.
Our Young Ladies’ were reorganized last
winter with about twenty members—officers
and all.  Mary Burnham was chosen Presi-
dent; Eliza B. Farnsworth and Ardell Stevens,
Counselors; Jenny Allan, Secretary; Abbie
Stevens, Assistant Secretary; Lizzie Stevens,
Treasurer.  We have held our meetings quite
regular once a week, and each has manifested
a desire to improve.  Some essays have been
written, and many of them would have done
credit to a society of a more advanced age.
We have only the one organization at present,
and all are interested to help make it a suc-
cess.
	Our Sunday School was also partially
reorganized sometime ago, and is doing as
well as could be expected.  I think, sometimes,
those who live in large and old settlements in
Utah hardly realize what uphill work it is
to get along with so little material to work
with; yet we try to realize the fact that God
helps those who put their trust in Him, and
we are very thankful that thus far we are left
in peace, though we do not flatter ourselves we
are more deserving, but that our turn has not
been served yet, and we pray, when it is, that
we may follow the noble example set by some
of our Utah brethren and sisters.
	How we view with contempt the cowardly
actions of some who seem to prefer to be called
honorable  gentlemen  by  these  officious
officials, who have scarcely a conception of
honor,  rather  than  have  the  love  and
confidence of their brethren and sisters,
or the approval of the God whose laws
they have pretended to love; but they love
their own selfish natures the best, and will be
rewarded accordingly.
	God bless the Saints and all who are true,
and strengthen the cast down, is the prayer of
					MARY BURNHAM.
			      --------
	WHITECHAPEL BRANCH, LONDON.
	Zion is upward and onward, for "now is the
day of Israel.”  It those who are skeptical on
this point; or have the hardihood to call in
question the fact, had attended Orson’s large
assembly rooms in the Mile-End, on Wednesday
evening, March 25th, their conceived notions,
or errors on this point would have received a
most severe shock.  Such would have been
compelled to acknowledge that there is in
Mormonism an irresistible force and latent
power, that only requires occasion to call forth
and make manifest; for notwithstanding the
wave of persecution now passing over the Zion
of God, yet the Latter-day Saints follow on in
the even tenor of their way, and, like Jesus of
old, go about and try to do good,by visiting the
poor and succoring the needy.  Among the
various agencies for thus doing good the Relief
Society stands forth pre-eminently.
	On the above date, was celebrated the
eleventh anniversary of the Relief Society of
the above branch, by the usual concert or en-
tertainment.  The programme had received
a wise and judicious censorship, and so nothing
occurred or passed that could have offended the
most cultured taste, or infringed in the least de-
gree upon the rules of propriety.  As Saints of
God we desire to set a good example in all
things, even in our amusements.
	After singing a hymn, and prayer for the
divine blessing  by Elder J. G. M. Barnes,
Prest. H. Garner, who presided, called, at half
past seven o’clock, for the first song, and from
that time until eleven o’clock, with but a short
interval of ten minutes, the interest never
flagged.  In fact we are within bounds to re-
mark that enthusiasm prevailed throughout.
Again, in several instances, considerable talent
was displayed.  That the M. I. Associations in
London among the Saints, begin to bear good
fruit must have been patent even to the least
observant.
	In this limited space all that can be done is
to make a passing reference to a few, who, by
their talents, seem to demand some notice.  All,
however, tried to do their best.  I will here
remark that the concert was graced with the
presence of Elder C. W. Penrose, the talented
Editor of the Deseret News.  The song, com-
posed by him, entitled “The loved ones at
home,” was sung by Sister Angie Cross in her 
usual able style.  A part song by the Sisters
Chalk and S. Edgley was most pleasing, en-
titled “Love at Home."  A comic song, by
Elder W. Loveday, was a treat.  Sister A. Gell
again; excelled in her song, “The old Maid,"
given with quaint humor.  A Dutch Recita-
tion, by Elder C. Denny, was very amusing.
The Sisters Cornell sang most creditably, “He
wipes the tear from every eye,”  The twenty-
third Psalm was chanted in a most beautiful
manner by Sisters Isabella and Fanny Chalk--
alto and treble.  It was likely a fine treat to
hear Prest. Garner and family, with Sister M.
A. Edgley, sang a part song, “There is nothing
like the Mormons."  A lengthy song by a
young sister, M. A. Nunn,  "The Stowaway”
deserves more than passing notice.  Again the
Comic Recitation, composed by Bro. H. Garner,
and given by the writer, “The Cheap Jack,” 
excited general hilarity as did a song com- 
posed by the writer, entitled “The Mormon
Bells.  The Bros. Spillman likewise were very
amusing.  The following report was read by
the Secretary:
	Eleventh Annual Report of the Relief So-
ciety of the Whitechapel Branch, for the year
ending March 4th, 1885 This Society con-
sists of a President, two Counselors and eight
Teachers.  Number of meetings held during
the year, twenty-four.  Visits made, ninety.
Cash collected from all sources, *pound sign 12. 14s. 11d.
Disbursements, *pound sign 11 0s 10 1/2d.  On hand, *pound sign 1
14s. 0 1/2d.
	The Spirit of the Lord has been abundant-
ly in their midst, which  has given them assur-
ances that their Heavenly Father has approved
of their humble endeavors in trying to do what
they could.  Earnestly praying for a continu-
ance of His mercies and blessings during the
coming year, through Jesus Christ.  Amen.
			  MARY GARNER, President,
			  ANN GELL, Secretary.
   Elder Penrose made a few wise and fitting
remarks.  He said if the mothers were to im-
bibe noble ideas and impulses they would be
imparted to their offspring.
	A short address by Prest. L. Lund and
prayer by Elder R. Braby and one of the
most successful anniversaries, if not the most,
yet held was brought to a close.
	The large meeting hall had been rendered
most attractive by four large pictures or draw-


ings, and nineteen mottoes exhibited on the
walls, the work of Bro. Whitbeck; one of the
pictures depicting Elder R. Braby blessing a
child. The numbers who attended, including
strangers, was without precedent.
	ALEXANDER R. CLARK, Branch Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GENTILE'S ADVICE.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	It may appear to others that it is none of
my business, as I do not live among the "Mor-
mons," but I sympathize with an honest and
industrious people, who are trying to establish
primitive Christianity, and who are being im-
posed upon and misrepresented by a few ad-
venturers, who have set up in business there
to fatten and grow rich on the honest toil of
the Mormons.
	This, I learn, is the case in your country.
This ought not to be so. The Mormons have
seventy-five per cent of the population, and
ought to control almost everything, even
though many of your best citizens are disfran-
chised, if they would act as a unit in other
matters—that is, never spend a dollar of their
money with any but their own people, establish
your own fashions and trade only with your own
people, and let no empty declaration of friend-
ship fool you, for words are mighty cheap. If
they have not incurred and brought on them-
selves the opposition of the world by uniting
with the Church and being in full harmony
with you, have nothing to do with them; let
them severely alone; don't patronize their
schools, nor places of amusement, nor attend
their churches, for if you are right they are
wrong, and gospel speculations ought not to
be encouraged by those who have the truth al-
ready.
	This may look selfish to some, but the law
of self-defense requires it in your case, for the
pretty goods and flattering talk your young 
people will see and hear at the stores of Baby-
lon will lead many in their ways, and this
weakens the Mormons and strengthens them;
and if this should continue in a few years
they will have the majority in numbers; and
then, backed by the Federal Government, as
they are, you would be driven away from your
homes and property, as your people were in
Missouri forty years ago; but if you could act
as a unit, and have no dealings with the enemy,
they would not be tempted to settle among
you, and it would help to drive the spies and
traitors out of your midst.	*	*	*
	In war times the most enlightened people
have hung spies and traitors; but I don't en-
courage hanging, for the Bible says, "Thou
shalt not kill." But don't visit your enemies
nor receive them in your social circles; the
public frown is very powerful, and it will, in
time, drive all but the dare-devil sort out of
your midst.
	JOHN M. RUSSELL.
Alabama.


A FEW WORDS FROM MOAB.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this part of the
country would not come amiss, I take pleasure
in writing.
	Our Relief Society is trying to keep along
with the rest of the Society as near as possible,
with a good spirit and feeling at least. We
hold our testimonial meetings monthly, and
our working meetings every two weeks. We
have very good meetings.
	On the 4th of May we, with some of the
brethren, held a meeting in honor of Sister
Mary Jenson, previous to her departure for
Colorado, she having been President of our
Relief Society. She is a faithful sister, and
was much beloved by all associated with her.


The meeting was opened by singing and prayer,
as usual, the roll was called, and the minutes
of the previous meeting were then read. Sister
China Lutz was then set apart to fill the
vacancy that would be caused by Sister Jen-
sen's departure, and we also had the pleasure
of listening to some very instructive and in-
teresting remarks made by the brethren.
	With best wishes for the success of your
paper, I beg leave to subscribe myself,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARY M. PEARCE.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I thought I would write a few lines to the
EXPONENT, if you thought proper to insert
them in your valuable little paper.
	I am glad to notice in the paper the interest
that the sisters take in it. I thought I would
like to be one amongst them to bear my mite
of testimony to the great work of the last
days,to encourage all to press onward courage-
ously and faithfully; never mind the scoffs and
frowns of the world; we have all got a cross to
bear, and it will make our cross the brighter
to shine when we have performed our part,and
shown to all the world and our Heavenly
Father, that we are on His side. Some have
only been engaged but a short time in this
work, and some have been for years; I myself
have been engaged in it for thirty-two years,
and have had many ups and downs in it, and
expect many more if I am spared much longer;
but my age tells me not to make any promises,
but to hold on to-day, and if I am spared till
to-morrow, still hold on, for we know not what
to-morrow may bring forth. It is a time of
trouble, but we were never promised much
pleasure in this life, and if it were not for the
hope that is in us, through the promise of the
word of God, I fear if many would be able to
stand firm, but I would say dear sisters never
mind the scoffs and trials of this world, we
have all a cross to bear, and if found faithful
it will only make our cross the brighter.
	Then let us try and bear all that is put up-
on us, till we are called to give account of our-
selves; then how pleased shall we be to hear
the welcome word, "Well and faithfully done,
enter into my rest." Oh! how good will that
rest be after such a life of toil and trouble
that some of us have borne. I can say my
whole life, since I embraced the Gospel, has
been one continual trial and vexation, but I
want to hold on, and if possible to find that
rest which the Scriptures speak of, "There re-
maineth, therefore, a rest for the people of
God."
	Dear sisters, that we may be found faithful
to our covenants and enter into the joy of our
Lord, is the prayer and wish of your sister in
the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
	With best feelings for all who love the Gos-
pel of our Lord Jesus Christ, I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		E. B.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Divine confidence can swim upon those seas
which feeble reason cannot fathom.—Bishop
Hall.
	To become acquainted in youth with a great
woman develops all a man's powers, and gives
him a thousand talents.—Ex.
	Next to knowing when to seize an oppor-
tunity, the most important thing in life is to
know when to forego an advantage.—Ex.
	The only true way of preventing a single


desire from absorbing our nature and ruining
our usefulness is to bring others into constant
play.Ex.
	A shrewd old gentleman once said to his
daughter: "Be sure, my dear,you never marry
a poor man; but remember the poorest man
in the world is he who has money and nothing
else."—Ex.
	The man who neither sees, hears, nor parti-
cipates in anything beyond his own immediate
surroundings can know little beyond the narrow
boundary of his own individuality—a very
circumscribed sphere to live and work in.—
Fx.
	"And so with principles. Lots of folks
spend most of their days a plantin' seeds that
wont come up. But if the idee is true and
has got life in it, no matter how dark the
mould that covers it, it is morally bound to
sprout—positively bound to and can't be hin- 
dered."—Samantna.
	He who is never dissatisfied with himself or
others, and never discontented with things
around him, cannot be expected to make any
strenuous efforts at improvement. He may
live out a life of ease and serenity, but it will
be the ease of torpor and the serenity of in-
dolence.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	There are eighty-one women county superin-
tendents of schools in Kansas.
	Belva Locdwood is expected in Salt Lake
City about the last of June, and will probably
lecture here.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, President of the
Woman's Exposition, will return from New
Orleans about June 15, and go at once to
Newport for the summer.
	Roberts Brothers of Boston, have just pub-
lished Miss Ingelow's new volume. It is en-
titled "Poems of the Old Days and the New."
—Ex.
	Mrs. E. C. Agassiz is said to be writing a
biography of her husband, Prof. Louis Agassiz,
with which will be incorporated many import-
ant letters.—Ex.
	The Empress of Austria, although a grand-
mother, is considered the first huntress in
Europe. She is fond of the society of circus-
riders on account of her love for the horse.
	The enormous cathedral of Moscow, built to
hold 10,000 persons, and at a cost of £2,000,
000, is just completed. It has taken fifty years
to build, and was intended to commemorate
the defeat of Napoleon.—Ex.
	The Rev. Dr. Shaw, of Rochester, N. Y.,
pastor of the largest Presbyterian Church in
the United States except one, lately preached
a sermon in which he avowed his belief in
woman suffrage, and declared that he saw no
reason why a woman should not be President
of the Untied States—Ex.
	Victor Hugo, who died last month in Paris
was one of the most distinguished men of the
age. Victor Hugo was born at Basancon,
France, on the 26th of February, 1802. His
father, who was from Lorraine, was a brilliant
General under the first Napoleon. His mother
was a remarkably brave and courageous
woman, and the poet in his verses referring to
his romantic and adventurous life, says he
wandered all over Europe before he was born.
Although his father wished him to be educated
and trained for the military, his inclinations
led him in the direction of literature, and that
of a high order. The first three odes which
made him famous were written before he was
twenty—"The Virgins of Verden," "Henry


IV's Statue," and "Moses in the Nile." At
the age of 14 he had composed a tragedy—
"Irtamene," and two lyric pieces, "The Rich
and the Poor" and "The Canadian." Victor
Hugo believed in the largest liberty, political,
religious and intellectual, and was, in the best
sense of the term, a humanitarian. France
mourns her hero, patriot and poet, for indeed
he was greatly beloved Yet he lived to a
good old age and had filled up his days in use-
fulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, of puerperal fever, at Star Valley, Houston
Ranch, Yavapal Co., Aaizona, Mary Celeste, wife of
Andrew J. Houston, and daughter of E. K. and Ellen
C. Fuller. Deceased was born in Harrisburg, Washing-
ton Co., Utah, November 2nd, 1865. Died April 10th,
1885. She left an infant son thirteen days old, a de-
voted husband, father, mother, and many brothers and
sisters. No one knew her but to love her; she was
gentle, amiable and affectionate, a loving and obedient
daughter, and gave every promise of a long life of use-
fulness.
	She was patient and uncomplaining to the last, en-
treating her husband, mother and others not to mourn
for her, and expressing her love and affection for them
in the most endearing terms. She was full of faith
and perfectly submissive to the will of God, and during
the last moments of her life, as though triumphing
over all human pain and sorrow, she sang, "Praise
God, from whom all blessings flow," etc.
	Her pure, bright spirit passed peacefully away, and
amidst the tears and grief of those who knew her best,
she was laid in the silent tomb to await the glorious
resurrection of the just when there will be no more
pain or parting forevermore
	E. B. W.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Mesa City, Maricopa, A. T., April 23rd, 1885,
Irene Ophelia, daughter of Francis M. and Irene
Pomeroy, and wife of William Newell, aged thirty-one
years lacking one month.
	Deceased was a faithful wife and mother, and was
loved and respected by all who knew her. She was a
talented and useful member of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
this ward, holding the position of editor to the Young
Ladies' paper, and used her best endeavors to make
each paper more instructive and interesting than the
last.
	She leaves a husband and four dear little girls, and a
host of brothers, sisters, relatives and friends to mourn
her sad and sudden departure.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call
from our midst our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Mesa City, recognize in her death the loss of an able
and useful member of our Association.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband and sorrowing children, in
the loss of a kind and affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolve, That these Resolutions be placed upon our
records, a copy presented to the bereaved family, and
one printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		JULIA P. KIMBALL,
		ADDIE PASSEY,
		ETTA POMEROY.

	DIED, at Fremont, Piute Co., March 27th, 1885, William
W. Taylor, Son of James Allen and Louisa Taylor,
born December 27th, 1873, aged eleven years and three
months, after a long and protracted illness of typhoid
and other diseases.
	At the Fremont Primary Association the following
Reselutions were unanimously adopted.
	Whereas, The Lord in His alwise providence has seen
fit to call our dearly beloved and much respected
brother and associate from our midst,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Fremont
Primary, feel to sympathize with the bereaved and
sorely afflicted family, in the loss of their son and
brother; not, however, without the consoling reflection
that he is entitled to the glorious promise of a part in
the first resurrection; and as he was a ready and willing
member of our Association, we, the members of the
same, feel to make and adopt the above Resolutions,
and,


Resolved, also. That we make this a matter of record
in our Primary Association, and a copy of the same be
presented to the bereaved family, and also a copy be
sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		MARGARET J. TAYLOR, President,
		SARAH ALICE ALLRED, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of deep sorrow that we record the
death of our dear friend and sister, Lucy Annie Johnson,
beloved wife of President W. D. Johnson Jun. She
passed to her eternal rest on that holiest of all days—
the Sabbath—at Kanab, at two o'clock a.m., April 26th,
1885.
	Sister Lucy A. was the daughter of Benjamin and
Sarah Salsbury, and was born November 2nd, 1850, in
Moringo, Wayne County, State of New York. She was
married to W. D. Johnson Jun. in Salt Lake City, Nov.
26th 1870. Soon after their marriage they settled at
Kanab. She was Counselor to the President of the Re-
lief Society for many years. At the organization of the
Primary Association, in the Kanab Stake of Zion, she
was chosen by Sister E. R. S. Smith, and sustained by
the people as President of the Stake, and over all the
ward associations.
	When the Kanab Stake Relief Society was reorganized
through the great love the sisters had for her, she was
sustained as President, although her great suffering
never permitted her to attend to these duties.
	Sister Lucy was a true and loving wife, and a help-
meet in every sense of the word. Our dear sister was
a most affectionate mother, and her wife-sisters almost
worshiped her. She has been a great sufferer for many 
years, but the immediate cause of her demise was
dropsy.
	During her last sickness her faith and endurance
were remarkable; yet, with all, she was submissive to
the will of her Heavenly Father. Even in her last
moments, when her heart yearned for the presence of
her much beloved husband, who was fleeing from his
persecutors, her prayer was, "Thy will, O Lord, be
done."
	At the funeral, which was held Sunday, the 26th, the
meeting House was filled to overflowing—every child
wishing to take a last look at their beloved President.
The speakers were Prest. E. D. Woolley, Elder J. A.
Little and Bishop Robinson. They paid her the highest
tribute that could be given to woman, by saying she
had been a pure, consistent woman in every phase of
life.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, The alwise Father has seen fit to remove our
dear sister, President Lucy Annie Johnson, from this
sphere of action to a more exalted one above, therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in
the Relief Society of the Kanab Ward, do deeply mourn
her loss, and that we cherish her memory and emulate
her many virtues. We can truly say her fallings "E'en
leaned to virtue's side." She manifested that true
charity which flows from a sense of duty and a hope in
God. 
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved husband and family in the loss of a loving wife,
mother and sister.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that they be placed upon the
ward record.
	Farewell, dear sister, rest in peace, and may the
Lord grant that our future may be as bright and hope-
ful as thine. 	[Signed]
		HARRIET BUNTING,
		ARTEMACY STEWART,
		ELIZABETH ROBINSON,
		M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
	    --------
  BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
	                    ----------
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, - 25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn book, 40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, - $1.00
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
        TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,- 1.50

[Column 2]
		Established October, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Importers and Jobbers of
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	Heavy and Shelf Hardware,
		Glass and Queensware,
			Elegant Cut Glass,
	Agricultural Tools and Imple-
			     ments,
		Cloth and Clothing,
	Pure Drugs and Chemicals,
Carpets and Wall Papers, All
	Grades and Newest Designs.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
		H. S. Eldredge. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL's
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
Laces, Ruches, Embroderies,
	Fans, Gloves, Parasols,
		Ribbons, Collars, Ties,
	And an elegant assortment of
	Dry Goods:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods,  Ottomans, Gros-
	grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at Manufactureres' prices, by
			Mrs. B. P. Musser.
	Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Fall and Complete Stock of
		Millinery.
Spring and Summer Goods
	And Ladies Dress Trimmings.
Call And Examine.

David James & Co.,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
	Agent for Rumsey's celebrated lift and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1885.	NO. 2.


THE MORMON FEVER.

[INSCRIBED TO WHOMSOEVER THE CAP FITS.]

All round about, has broken out,
	A fever quite contagious;
And far and wide (though none have died)
	It smites the most courageous (?)
Turn'd upside down is ev'ry town,
	As with a powerful lever,
For high and low, where'er you go,
	Have caught "The Mormon Fever."

From east to west, folks cannot rest—
	Their brains are full of vapors;
"These Mormons" seem to be the theme
	Of all the current papers.
Bad as "The Trib." so many fib,
	And ape "the story weaver,"
Or wrong or right, with much delight,
	They spread "The Mormon Fever."

Upon my word, 'tis quite absurd—
	Yet far more cruel than funny—
How folks are fool'd and wires are pull'd,
	Just for the sake of money.
While lies and trash, will fetch the cash,
	Enriching the receiver,
What editor will loss incur,
	Or check "The Mormon Fever?"

What gossips say, from day to day,
	About the "Mormon" people,
Would make a volume reaching high
	As any towering steeple.
"Morality" is on the tongue
	Of many a gay deceiver;
There's no mistake that ev'ry rake
	Is down with "Mormon Fever."

Folks, dinn'd and dazed, are nearly crazed
	With such a constant clatter;
Some, counted wise, express surprise,
	Yet seldom sift the matter.
But few, forsooth, desire the truth,
	Or try to tell it, either;
And less they care, or boldly dare
	To fight "The Mormon Fever."

'Tis come, alas! to such a pass—
	And rages unabated;
Amazed, we see their unity,
	Who once each other hated.
Sects, long at war, so friendly are—
	They've drop'd the battle cleaver;
And still, no doubt, they brought about
	This direful "Mormon Fever."

Yet in their hive the "Mormons" thrive,
	Busy as bees, and useful—
Though criticised and advertised,
	By foes and fame abuseful.
They look for hate, nor shirk the fate
	Of every true believer;
Fearless and bold, to Truth they hold,
	Despite "The Mormon Fever."
	E. H. W.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PLACE, AND HER
FUTURE.

	"A thing of beauty is a joy forever." Wo-
man's charms are certainly many and power-
ful. Heaven has imprinted on the mother's
face something beyond this world. The good
Bishop Thomson once wrote that there was "no
velvet so soft as the mother's lap, no rose so
lovely as her smile, no path so flowery as that
imprinted with her footsteps." He who can ap-
proach the cradle of sleeping innocence. with-
out thinking that of such is the kingdom of
heaven, or see the parent hang o'er its beauties

[Column 2]

and half retain her breath lest she should
break its slumbers, without a veneration be-
yond all common feeling, is to be avoided in
every vocation of life.
	The world's history is full of glorious
achievements of women. If all women had
the chance to educate themselves, they would
find it would be a great help to them in the
future. In years long past they had not the
privilege of going to school, or any place
where knowledge of books could be gained,
but in this enlightened age it is vastly different.
A mother is the best friend a child can have,
with her gentle look, loving smile, kind words
and tender care for her children, and the wak-
ing, watchful eye which keeps its fond vigil
over her slumbering babe.
	These are objects which neither the pencil
nor chisel can reach. In the heart of man na-
ture has set the mother upon such a pinnacle
that our infant eyes and arms are uplifted to
it. We cling to it in manhood; we almost
worship it in old age. The mother can take
man's whole nature under her control. She
has become what has been called "the divinity
of infancy." Her smile is sunshine, her words
its mildest law, until sin and the world have
steeled the heart.
	We are put upon this earth for a wise and
noble mission, and one of the chief ends of
that mission is the love, care and protection of
children. Robert G. Ingersoll said, "Woman
has all the rights of man and one more; it is
that of protection."
	The mother is the angel spirit of home.
Many a woman in this stage of action is very
futile, and does not care to assume any respon-
sibility. This is not the way to feel if one
ever wishes to become wise, honorable and
good, or to make a name known for good
works in this world and the world to come.
Who, in the hour of agony, would forget the
mother? Who, even when the tomb is closing
upon the remains of her he loves most, when
he feels his heart, as it were, crushed in the
closing of its portals? Nothing can be more
touching than to behold a soft and tender
woman, who has been all weakness and depend-
ence, and alive to every trivial roughness while
treading the prosperous path of life, and daily
rising in mental force to be the comfort and
support of her husband under misfortune, and
abiding with unshrinking firmness the biter-
est blasts of adversity.
	Woman is one of the most intelligent crea-
tures upon the earth. If she is good and pure
her hopes are centered in the future, where the
angels dwell. Woman's place is very import-
ant. She is gentle, keeping her love, as it
were, won by a thousand nameless and modest
virtues, which radiate from her whole life and
action. She steals upon your affection like a
summer wind breathing softly over sleepy val-
leys; and yet the wishes of the wise mother are
guided by that which avoids conflict. When
a mother has raised her children in the right
direction, and they follow the path which has
been marked out for them, they can say they
honored their father and mother in the days of
their youth. Ah! woman's aim is high, and
she will reach it if she will cultivate her mind
and heart to do so. Verily, O woman! thou
art a glorious and God-like being. Woman
can learn to fill many of the positions in office
equally well with man, and she can even
out-strip him in some of the vocations of
life.

[Column 3]

	A good wife is the best thing a man can
have. Her tender yearnings over the cradle
of her infant babe, her guardian care of the
child in youth, and her bosom companionship
with the man of her love and choice, makes her
the personal centre of the interests, the hopes
and happiness of the family.
	It is evident that one of the most potent
means by which woman is raised in the scale
of knowledge and virtue, is through the con-
versation, association and example of women
superior to herself. Beauty is the mark God
sets upon virtue. If trouble comes upon you
you know that loving kindness will allay your
fears. Her kindness and gentleness are sweet-
ly tempered with that meekness and forbear-
ance which are born of faith. Trust comes
into her heart as rivers flow into the sea. In
the "dark hours" of doubt and foreboding man
himself rests fondly upon her buoyant faith, as
the treasure of his common life, and in our
holier musings we look to that frail hand and
gentle spirit, to lead us away from the vanities
of worldly ambition, to the fulness of that joy
which the good inherit.
	We have given our ideas of woman's place.
What shall her future be? Will she rise or
fall? Rise she must and will; there is no doubt
of it. The course of events point to her
place high upon the ladder of eternal fame.
Her pathway to eminence and to the forefront
in the field of science and art has now be-
gun to blossom and bloom with the flowers of
success, and she has already had scattered in
her pathway rare bouquets of applause, thrown
there by an damiring world.	*	*	*
She is grandly bursting the fetters that have
hindered her progress so many, many years.
She is just now stepping out on the platform
of human advancement, in art, science and in-
vention, to compete with her brother man in
many of those walks of life.
	In literature she has already won laurels of
fame. In song she out-rivals him. In science
she has, in many instances, already displayed a
master hand, and in religion all will admit she
is naturally more reverential, devout and hum-
ble, and none will deny but that more peniten-
tial tears are to her credit in the Lamb's Book
of Life, than those of man. Her gentle grace,
her tender pity, and her never ending love, are
heaven's symbols of what is to be in years to
come.
	In coming years woman's name will be flung
upon canvas ever to be revered by posterity,
and never to be dimmed by the mellowing of
time. She will win a fame that will be more
lasting that brass, more durable than marble.
She will join in that song which will be great-
er than that of Miriam's. It filled the whole
world with music, even as it was filled the whole
world with music, even as it was filled on the
morning when God looked out and found that
all He had created was good, and the solemn
stars broke into song.
	Woman is awaking. The day is near at
hand when the universe shall change front, and
by woman's help, socially, politically and re-
ligiously, in words and deeds, new hopes and
new measures will be vouchsafed to all man-
kind.
	The thrill—the bursting of fetters that have
so long enchained woman, is not confined
to this country alone. It is heard in
Ireland, in France, in Poland, in Hungary, and
even the mention of woman's place and her
future, is arousing energy, and activity which
had lain dormant among the nations, those


that have thought it a disgrace for women to
speak in public, or to enter the professions.
Her future is bright, and as the revolving
world measures off the cycles of time her name
will brighter glow and gleam, immortal, uncon-
sumed by moth or rust.
		MILLIE HOWELL.
	Clifton, Idaho, May 26. 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.

	We, the undersigned committee, having full
power and authority to settle and adjust all
matters and differences existing between our
people or society and the inhabitants of Jack-
son County, upon honorable and constitutional
principles; therefore, if the said inhabitants
of Jackson County will not let us return to our
lands in peace, we are willing to propose, first-
ly, that twelve disinterested men, six to be
chosen by our people, and six by the inhabit-
ants of Jackson County, and these twelve men
shall say what the lands of those men are
worth in that county who cannot consent to
live with us,and they shall receive their money
for the same in one year from the time the
treaty is made,and none of our people shall en-
ter the county to reside till the money is paid.
The said twelve men shall have power, also,
to say what the damages shall be for the injur-
ies we have sustained in the destruction of
property, and in being driven from our possess-
ions, which amount of damages shall be de-
ducted from the amount for their lands. Our
object is peace, and an early answer will be ex-
pected.	[Signed]
		W. W. PHELPS,
		EDWARD PARTRIDGE,
		ISAAC MORLEY,
		JOHN CORRILL,
		JOHN WHITMER,
		A. S. GILRERT.
	The Prophet continues: "June 24th. This
night the cholera burst forth among us, and
about midnight it was manifest in its most
terrified form. Our ears were saluted with
cries and moanings and lamentations on every
hand; even those on guard fell to the earth
with their guns in their hands, so sudden and
powerful was the attack of this terrible dis-
ease.
	"At the commencement I attempted to lay
on hands for their recovery, but I quickly
learned, by painful experience, that when the
great Jehovah decrees destruction upon any
people, makes known His determination, man
must not attempt to stay His hand. The mo-
ment I attempted to rebuke the disease, that
moment I was attacked, and had I not desisted
I must have saved the life of my brother by
the sacrifice of my own, for when I rebuked
the disease it left him and seized me.
	"Early on the morning of the 25th the camp
was separated into small bands and dispersed
among the brethren living in the vicinity, and
I wrote and sent by express to Messrs Thorn-
ton, Donaphon and Atchison, as follows:
	RUSH CREEK, Clay Co., June 25th, 1834.
GENTLEMEN:
	Our company of men advanced yesterday
from their encampment beyond Fishing River,
to Rush Creek, where the tents are again
pitched. But feeling disposed to adopt every
pacific measure that can be done, without jeo-
pardizing our lives, to quiet the prejudices and
fears of some part of the citizens of this coun-
ty, we have concluded that our company shall
be immediately dispersed, and continue so, till
very effort for an adjustment of differences

[Column 2]

between us and the people of Jackson has been
made on our part, that would in any wise be
required of us by disinterested men of repub-
lican principles.
	I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
		JOSEPH SMITH JUN.
	N. B. You are now corresponding with the
Governor (as I am informed), will you do us
the favor to acquaint him of our efforts for a
compromise. This information we want con-
veyed to the Governor, inasmuch as his ears
are stifled with reports from Jackson of our
hostile intentions, etc.
	"I left Rush Creek the same day, in com-
pany with David Whitmer and two other
brethren, for the western part of Clay County.
While traveling we called at a house for a
drink of water. The woman of the house
shouted from the door that they had "no water
for Mormons," that they were afraid of the
cholera, etc. We turned and departed, ac-
cording to the commandment; and before the
week had passed the cholera entered that
house, and that woman and three others of
the family were dead
	"When the cholera made its appearance
Elder John Carter was the first man who
stepped forward to rebuke it, and upon this was
instantly seized, and became the first victim in
the camp. He died about six o'clock in the
afternoon, and Seth Hitchcock died in about
thirty minutes after. As it was impossible to
obtain coffins, the brethren rolled them in
blankets, carried them on a horse sled about
half a mile, and buried them in the bank of
a small stream, which empties into Rush Creek,
all of which was accomplished by dark. When
they had returned from the burial the brethren
united, covenanted and prayed, hoping the
disease would be staid, but in vain, for while
we were thus covenanting Eber Wilcox died,
and while some were digging the grave others
stood sentry with their fire arms, watching
their enemies.	*	*	*	*
	"The cholera continued its ravages about
four days, when an effectual remedy, for their
purging, vomiting and cramping was discovered,
viz., dipping the person afflicted in cold water,
or pouring it upon them. About sixty-eight
of the Saints suffered from this disease, of
which number thirteen died.	*	*
	"The last days of June I spent with my old
Jackson County friends in the western part of
Clay County. On the first of July I crossed
the Missouri River, in company with a few
friends, into Jackson County, to set my feet
once more on the 'goodly land,' and on the
second I went down near Liberty and visited
the brethren."	*	*	*	*
	The revelations and letters that the Jackson
County Saints received, must have been a
source of great comfort and consolation to
them in their afflictions, and when the Prophet
Joseph came with Zion's camp, I can imagine,
in some degree, how great their joy must have
been; not because of the prospect of being re-
stored to their homes, but because of the great
love manifested by their brethren, and, child
as I was, I partook of the joyful spirit of my
parents. Some of the brethren of Zion's camp
stopped at my father's and I particularly re-
member Dr. Darwin Richardson. When Bro.
Joseph returned to Kirtland father either went
with him, or soon after, and was absent several
months.
	How mother managed to live I cannot tell;
only the Lord did provide. The children con-
tinued to go to school in the log cabin, in the
Paupau Grave, having our pleasures and
troubles mixed, as a natural consequence of
school children, but children's troubles are
generally short lived, and ours did not hinder
us from having plenty of fun. We had some
sickness in our family while father was absent,
but our lives were spared through all our wan-
derings, until we came to Nauvoo; there death

[Column 3]

began to make inroads in our family. Some
of the brethren purchased land in Clay Co.
but the Saints had no intention of making a
permanent settlement in that place.
	The spirit of mobocracy continued to mani-
fest itself among the inhabitants of Clay Co.,
and the Saints began to flee from their persecu-
tors. They purchased land in Caldwell Coun-
ty, Missouri, and established a gathering place
for the scattered Saints.
	Father moved his family into a pieee of
timber, about three miles from the place where
Far West was afterwards located. Father and
the brethren that were with him built log huts
and prepared us as well as they could for the
coming winter. The timber in which we were
camped was mostly hickory, with some black
walnut, and hazle bushes were plentiful, and
all were loaded with nuts, and when the frost
came they dropped from the trees and lay so
thick on the ground all around us that the
children were kept pretty busy gathering them
up. We gathered several bushels, and feasted
on nuts though the winter, if with little else.
As father's eldest children were all girls, my
sister Harriet and I had to act the part of
boys and help him with his work,such as milk-
ing the cows and going to the prairie and assist
him in loading hay, and sometimes we would
carry the chain when he surveyed the land.
	After Far West was laid out father built
another house and we moved into the city.
The Saints from all parts of the world, where
the Gospel had been preached, began to gather
in, and the place was rapidly built up.
	Troubles in Kirtland multiplied, until the
Saints in that place had to flee to Missouri,and
the Saints in the west had the Prophet, for the
first time, residing in their midst, which they
esteemed as a very great blessing. The Saints
continued to take up land and settle in the sur-
rounding counties, and peace and prosperity
reigned in their midst.


Y. L. ANNUAL MEETING.

	The first annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of the Seventh Ward since its reorganiza-
tion, was held in the Relief Society
room May 7th, 1885, Sarah Eddington
presiding. Opened by singing, "We'll sing
all hail to Jesus' name." Prayer offered
by Mrs. Minnie James. Singing, "Glori-
ous things of thee are spoken." Roll
called, showing thirty-eight members present,
and minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	The programme for the evening was then
taken up and carried out as follows: Remarks
upon Section 123 of the Doctrine and Coven-
ants, Annie Blazzard; Recitation, Alice Mc-
Lachlan. Entitled "Kate Maloney; Question
answered by Amelia Woods, "Why is present
revelation necessary?" The tenth number of
the Young Ladies' Journal was read by Emma
Rose; a song was then rendered by the Associa-
tion. "Joseph Smith's First Prayer." This
concluding the programme, remarks were then
made by Sisters Dougal, Richards, Taylor,
Horne and Colebrook; seemingly directing
their remarks adapted to the present time—
the persecutions of the Saints, patronizing
home industry, and of young people marrying
those not of our faith.
	The following named officers were then sus-
tained in their positions: Sarah Eddington,
President; Carrie Thorn and Emma Rose,
Counselors; Millie Foster, Secretary; Alice
McLachlan, Assistant Secretary; Nellie Mc-
Lachlan, Treasurer.
	President Sarah Eddington was then pre-
sented with six volumes of the Speaker's Gar-
iand. Programme for next meeting then read.
Singing, "Love at Home." Benediction by
Mrs. M. A. Lambert.
	MILLIE FOSTER, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOT IN VAIN.

BY ANNIE B. HOLBROOK.

	"Your labor is not in vain in the Lord.

O patient hearts, that silent wait
	Through weary, fruitless years,
For tardy recompense and late,—
	A rainbow in the mist of tears,—
The blest, old promise shall remain,
	In Him, ye labor "not in vain."

O weary hands! with toil borne down,
	And grasping only leaves,
With eager search in stubble brown,
	Where stand the golden sheaves,
Whate'er ye lose, this guerdon gain,
	In Him, ye labor "not in vain."

O laboring feet! returning late,
	Though rougher grows the way,
Climb upward, where through glory's gate
	Soft shines the smile of the day,
Its presage traced on hill and plain,
In Him, ye labor "not in vain."

Ah, "not in vain" the secret prayers
	The sacrifice complete;
Before his face some angel bears
	The rising incense sweet,
And unseen choirs repeat the strain,
	In Him, ye labor "not in vain."	Ex.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the morning of February the 2nd my
mother gave birth to a son, whom they named
Solomon, after his Grandfather Kimball,
which event is mentioned in my husband's
journals. 
	My room was a few doors from my mother's,
where I was still bed-fast; but the weather be-
ing fine I was conveyed in an easy chair and
placed by her side, where I passed two pleasant
days, being carried back at eventide. She was
in excellent spirits, and before my arrival, the
first morning, had composed several verses on
the birth of this, her seventh son. They
breathed a prayer that his life might be long,
and his wisdom great, like unto Solomon's of
old, before he had allowed the love of women
to surpass the wisdom God had given him.
	She was gifted in that line, had it only been
cultivated in an early day. Her appearance, at
that period of her life, bespoke anything but a
sad and heart-broken woman, though there
were several of father's wives living under the
same roof with her.
	My husband mentions a party coming off on
the 3rd, consisting of President Young's family,
held at the Council House. Father and some
of his family attended. He speaks of the
marriage of Vilate Young and Charles Decker,
on the evening of the 4th.
	On the 5th he wrote: "The party of what
is called the 'Silver Greys,' came off at the
Council House to-day and night, consisting of
all the old people that could be found in camp.
In the forenoon the band went round in a car-
riage playing—the bride and bridegroom ac-
companying."
	"Saturday, the 6th. Beautiful weather.
This evening at eleven o'clock mother gave
birth to a son. She is pretty comfortable; also
Sister Kimball. Helen's health slowly im-
proving."
	"Tuesday, the 9th.	*	*	The Bishop's
convivialties commenced at the Council House
to-day, under the direction of Bishop Whitney
as head bishop of the Church. Attended my-
self with the band and played. The day and

[Column 2]

evening passed off finely, spent in praying,
singing, dancing, etc."
	The same evening he makes mention of my
father's calling his wives together, who had in-
fants, for the purpose of blessing them, which
was done in my mother's room, by B. Young,
father and Bishop Whitney, Dr. Richards act-
ing as clerk. There were seven in number—
four had been born at Nauvoo, one at Richard-
son's Point, Iowa, and two at Winter Quarters.
The eldest was my mother's son, Brigham
Willard, born January 29th 1845. The names
of those mothers were Sarah Peek, Clarrissa
Cutler, Emily Cutler, Sarah Ann Whitney,
Lucy Walker. The two latter were the wives
of the Prophet Joseph, whom father had taken
for time only. Still Joseph Smith of Lamona,
Iowa, declares that polygamy was neither
taught nor practiced by his father, and that it
was "foreign to the Gospel his father died in
the service of," when there are a dozen or
more of his wives still living in Utah, besides
scores of men and women who can testify that
this principle was taught and practiced by him,
and that he commanded others to enter into it.
"None are so blind as those who will not
see." But to return to Winter Quarters.
	"Wednesday, the 10th," wrote Horace,
"the Bishop's party continued on to-day, and
ended this evening at 10 p.m. Father did not
attend much on account of mother's illness,
who is not so well to-day as usual."
	"Thursday, the 11th.	*	*	The
party of 'Silver Greys,' who had not previous-
ly been at the Council House, met there to en-
joy themselves—attended also to-day with
others of the band."
	On the 13th a party was held at the same
place, "consisting of some of the seventies, or
bench makers." The same day he speaks of a
number of brethren starting for Brother La-
throp's camp to guard the horses and cattle,
which had been sent there, intelligence having
been received the day previous, that the "Sioux
had come among the people up there, and
stolen several horses and killed several cattle,
etc., etc."
	"Sunday, the 14th.	*	*	This
morning, at 11 a.m., a meeting of the family
was called at H. C. Kimball's room. Present
—H. C. Kimball, father and a number of both
families. The meeting opened by singing, and
prayer by Brother James Smithies. I arose
and read, by request of Bro. Kimball, a revela-
tion given March 7th, 1831, which was ad-
dressed to the Church, and intended for their
guidance at that, and also at this time. An-
other hymn was then sung, and Brother Kim-
ball arose and said:
	"'I have almost always something in my
mind to say, according to the circumstances
in which I am placed. My health is quite
poor at this time, having taken cold, and have
a severe pain in my side. My body feels as if
it was shattered to pieces with fatigue, but I
care nothing about it—I have no fear of death;
I have no fear about seeing my Heavenly
Father, but I want to live for the good of
this people—life is sweet. Why is it sweet?—
for the sake of good society—the cordial en-
dearments of my friends and children—I can
meet any body half way, for I have so ordered
my life that I am not afraid of death. I am
now forming a character for another world,
when I shall come forth with a new body in
the resurrection; and I want to cultivate the
principles of charity, that I may conform to 
the will of God, that I may be able to have
victory over death, hell and the grave, that I
may be able to say, death, where is thy sting,
O grave, where is thy victory! And when I
gain the victory is not every thing mine? I
want the brethren to exercise all the faith and
calmness in their power—I feel as though I
could hardly sit up. I dreamt the other night
to have my net prepared to catch all I can; and

[Column 3]

every man and woman have nets among you,
each one according to his or her capacity. You
have all got an idea that Christ has gained a
victory for you, but I tell you that you have
got to gain the victory yourselves, or you will
have it to grapple with hereafter. I presume
there is not a person in the room, great or
small, but what think they have as much to 
grapple with every day as I have.
	There have been a great many parties lately,
and I thought I would have one to-day. You
are all my family here to-day—Bishop Whit-
ney belongs to my family, and I belong to his
family, and I want all selfishness banished
from among you. I know there is faith
enough in this place to make me feel happy.
I should not be surprised if I should not live
two months; still I do not know but that I
shall, but there is no one knows how I feel but
myself. I have no testimony that I shall die
for fifty years to come. I want to go to a land
of liberty, where we can be free from mobs
and strife, in which we have been all our
lives. Some profess to have a knowledge of
all things behind the veil, but I profess no
such thing. What is in futurity I neither
know nor care; but I do care for the present,
and that all who look up to me for counsel, as
children, as husbands, etc., should be faithful
I do not say that any of you are disobedient,
but your minds want stirring up by way of re-
membrance—not to tell you what you don't
know, but you are run down like watches I want
you to wind them up two or three times a day.
It does not hurt a watch half as bad to run as
it does to lay dormant, therefore do not let your
minds, like watches, lay dormant. I want you
to lift up your hearts to God for me, and if I
have not done well by my children, I will leave
it to Brother Whitney, as he is a judge in Israel,
and he is such as appointed by the revelations
of God. I want my family to learn to govern
themselves, so that when they are in the midst
of an extreme, even in dancing, they could
stop right straight. You should never let
your appetites control your judgments, but
your judgments your appetites.'"


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Cleveland is about to publish a book
entitled "George Eliot, and Other Studies."
—Ex.
	Mrs. Charles Doremus, of New York, has
written a play that will be produced next sea-
son, probably by Madame Modjeska—Ex.
	Mrs. R. B. Hayes has bought and fitted up
a house in Savannah, Ga., where colored girls
can be throughly trained in skilled housekeep-
ing.—Ex.
	Baroness Alphonse de Rothschild has sent
Miss Leigh, treasurer of the Neuilly English
Orphanage, a check for $50,000, to add a new
wing to that excellent institution.—Ex.
	Mrs. Helen Jackson, "H. H.," recently,
while entertaining a delegation of Eastern
callers, adorned her table with twenty-three
different kinds of wild flowers.—Ex.

	Nothing is so easy as to fall into bad habits
both of mind and body, nothing so difficult as
to break them when once formed, and go back
up the steep path of reformation and well-do-
ing. From the least things to the largest, hab-
its of life are the foundations of character and
the bases of conduct—the roots whence spring
the poisonous weeds of vice and crime or the
fruitful flowers of virtue and nobility—the
seeds of material success or of material disas-
ter.—Ex.


﻿Patents were issued to women during the
week ending May 12,
	Caroline D. Halfpenny, Bloomsbury, Pa., a
trellis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1885.


SOME AFFAIRS IN ENGLAND.

	Gladstone’s resignation of the position next to
the Queen herself must have been a surprise to
the English people, who look with such pride and
admiration upon all places of honor near the
throne, and especially upon any one who is in the
confidence of her Royal Highness. This move-
ment will be likely to bring about serious conse-
quences, although, perhaps the Marquis of Salis-
bury, whom the Queen immediately summoned to
her assistance to aid in arranging matters with a
view to creating a new cabinet, may manage the
present crisis of affairs so diplomatically that the
people will scarcely realize the radical change that
is being brought about, for England has an adap-
tation in matters of State, whereby very grave
questions are adjusted with such nicety and pre-
cision that the great world scarcely heeds it more
than a ripple on a summer sea. But the policy of
the incoming party is likely to be so widely differ-
ent from the tenor of Gladstone’s administration
that, though the cabinet may come in with the
passiveness of the lamb, ere long there is sure to
be the roaring of lions, and it will disturb the
peaceful equanimity of those who have been ac-
customed to submit gracefully to liberal rule.
	Things have gone on so smoothly in England
during the reign of Queen Victoria, that the pres-
ent generation know very little of what actual
political disturbances in the United Kingdom
really are. But from the premonitions of the
times one cannot help anticipating difficulties that
will cause disturbances in the very heart of this
powerful empire.
	It is said the Queen has not been informed on
all matters on which Gladstone has acted in repre-
senting the government, and she is delighted with
his resignation. To exult in the downfall of any
one is not becoming, even in a queen, and in this
instance, in consequence of the complication of
questions that are already arising from this change,
Her Majesty may have an experience more try-
ing than the indifference of Gladstone to Royal
etiquette.
	If the attention is given to foreign policy to the
neglect of matters in the domain of England and
Scotland, etc., it will prove more or less disas-
trous to the government, and this seems to be the
present status of the affair. The masses of the
people do not care so much for foreign interests as
they do for bettering their own condition, and
they are not likely, with the enlightenment of the
nineteenth century, to be satisfied without due
attention to the questions pending in regard to
home affairs.
	The course the Queen is pursuing in not invit-
ing any of the royal family of Germany to the
wedding of the Princess Beatrice  will certainly
cause an unpleasantness that may not be so easily
conciliated, for these unobserved points of royal
etiquette are sometimes greater offenses than
things vastly more important.
	Germany is a great nation, and England can

			[Column 2]
carcely afford to overlook her even in matters of
etiquette, and especially on the occasion of a
royal marriage such as that of the Princess Bea-
trice to Prince Henry of Battenberg. It is said
too, that instead of being a “quiet” wedding, such
as had been at first intended, there is to be a great
deal of pomp and ceremony, and an elaborate and
artistic bride’s cake, built up in terraces and
placed upon a pedestal of gold. The weight
of the cake will be two hundred and fifty
pounds.
	Queen Victoria has settled the difficulty which
existed between Her Majesty and her son-in-law 
the Grand Duke of Hesse Darmstadt, which orig-
inated on account of his morganatic marriage to
Madame Kalomine. Report says previous to the
discovery of this secret marriage the Prince was
a suitor for the hand of the Princess Beatrice,and
a marriage was anticipated between the two as
soon as Parliament passed the bill permitting the
marriage to a deceased wife’s sister. This was of
course broken off as soon as the Queen discovered
his relationship to Madame Kalomine, The an-
nouncement has recently been made of his mar-
riage with the Princess Hilda of Hanault-Dessau
wdiich is soon to take place.


A EEW REFLECTIONS.

	The condition of affairs in Utah is being com-
mented upon at the present time all over the civil-
ized world. Yet one finds there are many very
ignorant of what is believed in by this people, as
well as their practices and institutions. This cru-
sade is spreading the “glad tidings” at home and
abroad, and opening up fields for the Elders to
glean in, where they may find many sincere and
honest-hearted, who will  hear the sound of
the Gospel of the Son of God, and obey the
same.
	There are many things to be thankful for, and it
becomes the Latter-day Saints, as God’s peculiar
people, to acknowledge the hand of the Almighty
in all things, even in this persecution.  “God
moves in a mysterious way,”and He knows how to
deal with His people.
	Among the things which the Saints should re-
cognize as from God is the fact that Judge Zane,
in his rulings, places plural marriage on such a
high plane. He makes it entirely separate and
distinct from any sexual sin, and distinctly takes
the ground that plural marriages are religious in
their form. The commissioners have also affirmed,
in their latest report, that plural marriage is as
much a religious principle as baptism.
	Then why should any one intefere with it, while
those who are practicing it are themselves satis-
fied with its conditions and responsibilites. Why
not allow the experiment to be made, at least; as
there are so many failures in social life, as well as
in politics and religion, let the "Mormons" try
this social method, which they have introduced,
and wait a few years more for the result.
	The Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know
them," and assuredly, so far, judging of the fruits
of these celestial marriages, there has been abun-
dant proof that the offspring is of good guality.
The beautiful and bright children, who fill these
mountain vales and congregate in the Sunday
Schools and district schools, speak volumes to
those in doubt as to the physical and mental de-
velopment of children born in plural marriage.
	But Satan is angry because the kingdom of
God is increasing in power and in numbers, and
he is determined to overthrow it, and he works
upon the minds and hearts of men to break down
and destroy this system of marriage, through
which so many souls may find tabernacles in the
flesh, and instead of passing laws to slay the
children, as in the days of Pharoah, he causes
men to pass laws to prevent their being born in
the "marriage relation," but God sought out a way


to bring to pass His own wise purposes then, and
He is just as able now.
	Men cannot compass the ways of God nor hin-
der the growth of His work on the earth, though
they may persecute and afflict His Saints, and
even shed the blood of prophets and men of God.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTER Eliza R. S. Smith has been absent for
a few days in Brigham City on business.
	WE are very grateful to Sister Mary Gray of
the 15th Ward for a basket of delicious, ripe, red
cherries, which were fully appreciated.
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and E. Howard went to
Grantsville on Friday, June 12th, to attend the
sisters’ conference of Tooele Stake, held there
Saturday and Sunday, and to visit some of the
settlements, before returning home. 
	BELVA A. LOCKWOOD is expected to lecture in
the theatre, in this city, sometime in the near fu-
ture. Due notice will be given of the date fixed
upon. The sisters will remember that she has
spoken in Washington several times in defense of
the rights of the women of Utah.
	FROM Mrs. Sarah Sears of the 11th Ward, a
beautiful and large bouquet of the most fragrant
and choicest flowers to grace our sanctum. Roses
of several varieties and colors, geraniums, honey-
suckles, carnation pinks, and a great many others
equally charming, arranged with artistic taste to
please the eye and shed around a sweet perfume.
Many sincere thanks to the giver.
	THE Presidents of Stakes of the Relief Society
who have not received the charts containing the
names of all the Presidents of the Relief Society
in all the branches in the several stakes, can get
the number to which they are entitled by applying,
either personally, or by letter, at the office of
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Room No. 4, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south
of Z. C. M. I.
	WE acknowledge, with thanks, from the office
of the Juvenile Instructor, a book of 118 pages,
entitled "The Edmunds Law." Unlawful cohabita-
tion as defined by Chief Justice Chas. S. Zane, of
the Territory of Utah, in the trial of Angus M.
Cannon Esq., in the Third District Court, Salt
Lake City, April 27, 28 and 29, 1885. Reported
in shorthand by John Irvine. Price, 30 cts.
This book gives every detail of this remarkable
trial in full. It is upon a subject which the peo-
ple here ought certainly to understand in all its
bearings and effects, and to be familiar with the
manner in which the question is treated by the
lawyers and jndges who handle these matters in
the courts of this Territory. It will be a useful
book for reference and ought to find ready sale.
	A GREAT number of strangers and tourists are
visiting our beautiful city the present season, and
many of them make special inquiries into the doc-
trines of the Mormon people, and are desirous to
learn what effect is being produced by the enforce-
ment of the Edmunds law, and whether it is work-
ing a hardship for the people. Perhaps the most 
noted man who has visited Salt Lake City this
season was Monsignur Capel, who delivered two
lectures here and preached in the Catholic Church
on the 7th and 15th of June. He is one of the strong
pillars of that ancient church, and prides himself
in being one of its devoted representatives. In
appearance he is very distinguished; in manners,
polished in the extreme; in conversation, ex-
ceedingly pleasant and fascinating. His language
is the perfection of English, and his great knowl-
edge of books, of men and countries, make
him exceptionally brilliant in the art of convers-
ing. He has quite a collection of "Mormon books,
and his opinions on the subject may be different
after he has read them; at any rate he is a strong


opponent of its doctrines at the present time. He
" intends returning here after a'visit’of about,two
'-weeks in California, and deliver a course of lec-
tures.
	FRIDAY morning, May 15th, attended the an-
nual meeting of the Primary Association of the
Tenth Ward in this city, commencing at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. Jennie McLean presiding. The singing of
the children and their exercises were
excellent, and the best of order was strictly
observed. Sister McLean, who has presided
over the Society ever since its organization, has,
with her assitants, accomplished great good, more
especially in the spiritual training of the little ones
in the cultivation of faith and the fruits of the
Holy Spirit. The annual report, which was read,
showed that considerable had been done during
the year, even by these little ones. After the pro-
gramme1 had been carried out remarks, suitable to
- tbe occasion,were made by Sisters E. C. Clawson,
E. B. Wells, L. A. Wells, Coun. James Woods,
Sister McLean and her Coun., Miss Edwards.,
At the close of the meeting, the officers, visitors
and children repaired to Fuller’s Hill, wherea ll
partook of refreshments prepared for the occa-
sion, and enjoyed the afternoon in a pleasant
manner, the children indulging in sports and pas-
times, such as swinging, boating, examining the
views and other amusements.  It was an event in
the, lives of tlie little folks which they will look
back upon with a sweet remembrance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The ladies regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
May 30th, 1885, Mrs. E. S. Taylor presiding.
Minutes were read from the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
17th Ward.
	Remarks were made by Sister E. S. Taylor on
the spirit and peculiarity of the times, and testi-
monies were borne by Sisters Smith, Green, Dyer,
Watmough and other sisters in the congregation,
and remarks were made by Sisters M. E. Kimball
and Julia C. Howe.
	Counselor B. W. Smith made closing remarks,
in which she gave a sketch of her visit to the
penitentiary, and spoke upon other subjects of in-
terest.  Meeting adjourned.  Singing, Doxology.
Prayer by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Meeting held at the same time and place, Satur-
day, June 13th, Counselor S. M. Kimball presid-
ing.  Mrs. M. A. Wilcox was elected Secretary
pro tem.  Minutes of previous meeting were read,
and also minutes of Y. L. from 20th and 2nd
Wards, and P. A. from 21st Ward.  The meeting,
which was numerously attended, was then ad-
dressed by Sisters M. A. Freeze, L. W. Kimball,
P. W. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Mary Gerber, H. Risley, S. M. Kimball, H, T.
King, E. B. Wells and M. A. E. Watmohgh.
The subjects spoken upon were the signs of the
times, the necessity of being humble, faithful and
prayerful, officiating for the dead in temples, the
present crusade, the Deseret Hospital, the train-
ing of children and some items of business in
relation to the Relief Society.
	A caution was given to the officers of the Re-
lief Society in regard to agents for books and
other things, not to place the Society in any
way under obligations to them, and in purchas-
ing books and other things, or accepting any
agency for these things to take every precaution
to secure themselves against being imposed upon.
	The appointment for the Relief Society Confer-
ence of this Stake of Zion was given out to be 
held on Friday, June 26th, and the Primary June
27th, in the forenoon, at 10 a.m., and Y. L. M. I.
A. at 2 p.m. Singing, "Lord dismiss us," etc.
Prayer by Sister M. W. Wilcox.


[Column 1]
﻿	SKETCH OF THE F. R. SOCIETY.
	The Female Relief Society was organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Illi-
nois, March 17th, 1842. Willard Richards and
John Taylor were also present on the occasion, Wil-
lard Richards acting as secretary pro tem.  Here
is a minute from the Prophet’s own history.
	March 17th. “I attended, by request, the F. R.
S., whose object is the relief of the poor, the des-
titute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exer-
cise of all benevolent purposes. Its organization
was completed this day, Mrs. Emma Smith,
President; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland, Counselors; Miss E. R.
Snow, Secretary; Miss Sarah Wheeler, Assistant
Secretary; Miss Elvira Cole, Treasurer. The
brethren then laid their hands on them and or-
dained them to their several offices.”  The
Prophet said, "You are now organized after the
pattern of the Church, and that whenever the
Church of Jesus Christ was fully organized upon
the earth this organization of the sisters existed.”
On another occasion, April 28th, 1842, he says, “I
met the members of the F. R. S.,and after presid-
ing at the admission of many new members, gave
a lecture on the Priesthood, showing how the
sisters would come in possession of the privileges,
gifts and blessings of the Priesthood, and that the
signs should follow them, such as healing the sick,
casting out devils, etc., and that they might attain,
unto these blessings by a virtuous life and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the command-
ments. This is a charitable institution, and ac-
cording to your nature. It is natural for females
to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You
are now placed in a situation where you can act
according to those sympathies God has placed in
your bosoms. If you live up to these privileges
how great and glorious will be your reward in the
celestial kingdom. If you live up to your privi-,
leges the angels cannot be restrained from being
your associates. Females, if they are pure and
innocent, can come into the presence of God, for
what is more pleasing to God than innocene. You
must be innocent or you cannot come up before
Him. If we would come before God we must
Weep ourselves pure as He is pure.”
	He spoke of some little foolish things being
circulated in the Society against some of the sis-
ters not doing right in laying on hands to heal the
sick; said that if the people had common sym-
pathies they would rejoice that the sick could be
healed.
	He continued his subject by quoting the com-
mission, given to the ancient apostles, in Mark
xvi, "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gos-
pel to every creature. He that believeth and is
baptised shall be saved; and he that believeth not
shall be damned; and these signs shall follow
them that believe: In my name they shall cast out
devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they
shall take up serpents, and if they drink any dead-
ly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay
hands on the sick and they shall recover.”
	"No matter who believeth, these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils etc., should
follow all that believe, whether male or female,
and if the sisters should have faith to heal the
sick, let all hold their tongues.” He further re-
marked that there could be no devil in it if God
gave His sanction by healing, and there could be
no more sin in any female laying hands on and
praying for the sick than in wetting their face with
water.
	This was about two years before his martyrdom,
which sad event took place June 27th, 1844.
	In 1846 the Church left Nauvoo, consequently
the F. R. S. was not in operation until the time
it was reorganized in Salt Lake City by President
Brigham Young. He gave Sister. E. R. Snow a
mission to assist the bishops to organize a F. R.
S. in every ward in the city. Commencing at the
[Coumn 2]
15 Ward, Sarah M Kimball was made President,
with two Counselors, Secretary and Treasurer,
also a visiting committee, who were to go from
house to house to search out the poor and look
after their wants.
	The Society has extended its branches from
ward to ward of the city and from settlement to
settlement in the country, throughout the Terri-
tory, United States,Great Britain, and throughout
the world where there is a branch of the Church.
The funds of the Society are mostly donations.
Many of the branches of the Society have started
industries, from which they realize a moderate in-
come; besides stated business meetings, each
branch has set days on which to work for the
benefit of the poor.
	When the Society commenced its labors in
Salt Lake City the donations consisted of mate-
rial for patchwork quilts,rags for carpets,uncarded
wool, for socks and stockings, etc.  In some in-
stances the hair of animals was cleansed and
carded by hand, of course, as there were no card-
ing machines in the city at that time, spun and
knit into socks and mittens.
	As fast as may be the various branches are
building for themselves places of meeting, work-
shops. etc.  The first of these buildings was
erected in the 15th Ward. They commenced
their labors as above, their first capital stock be-
ng donations of pieces for quilts, carpet rags, etc.
By energy and perseverance they helped to sus-
tain their poor, and in a few years purchased land
and built on it a commodious house.
	The laying of the corner stone was performed
by the sisters, and was followed by appropriate
speech making on the part of the presiding officers
of the Society—Miss S. M. Kimball, Mrs. E. R.
Snow and others, each in their turn mounting the
corner stone for a rostrum, and each winning de-
served applause from the assembled throng.
	After the building was completed it was dedi-
cated by the First Presidency. Sister E. R.
Snow composed a hymn for the occasion. Since
its reorganization here the Relief Society had
gathered and disbursed over $100,000 eight years
ago. Probably this sum has doubled since that
time.
	The Relief Society in the 13th Ward, in which
I live, was organized April 18th, 1868, at the resi-
dence of Bishop E. D. Wooley, who was present
with Counselors Wm. S. Godbe and F. A.
Mitchell. After a few interesting remarks from
the Bishop with regard to the organization and the
duties of its members, he proceeded to set apart
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant,as President of the society;
the Bishop himself ordained her to that office.
Mrs. Grant was then requested to choose her
Counselors, when she selected Mrs. Annie T.
Godbe for her First Counselor and Mrs. Margaret
Mitchell for her Second Counselor.  Mrs. Godbe
was ordained by her husband, Counselor Wm. S.
Godbe, and Mrs. Mitchell by her husband, Coun-
selor F.A. Mitchell.  It was then moved that Mrs.
E. H. Goddard act as Secretary, and Mrs. Anna
Musser was chosen as Treasurer. All were re-
ceived by unanimous vote. The following persons
were then appointed as teachers.  Mrs. Clarrissa
Scofield, Rosina Godbe, Martha Wells, Abbie
Rumel, Emily Young, Louisa Spencer, Agnes
Park, Mary Musser, Catherine Horrecks, Martha
Stringam, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe Maiben,
Elizabeth Maiben and Isabella Anderson.
	After a few encouraging and appropriate re-
marks from Sister E. R. Snow the meeting was
adjourned till April 30, 1868, to meet at Mrs.
Mary Godbe’s residence at 2 p.m. Counselor
Wm. S. Godbe acted as Secretary pro tem at the
organization.
	On May 3rd, 1871 Mrs. Mary-Musser was ap-
pointed Treasurer after, the decease of Mrs. Anna
L. Musser, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Assistant Sec-
retary
April, 1869, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was or-


[First column]
dained as First Counselor to Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant, Mrs. Annie T. Godbe having resigned her
position, and in January, 1873, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells was ordained as the Second Counselor in
the Relief Society in place of Mrs. Margaret
Mitchell, who had been called to accompany her
husband on a mission to the Sandwich Islands.
Mrs. Relief C. Atwood was appointed Treasurer
in 1876, Mrs. Mary Musser resigning her position
on account of removing out of the ward.
	In Sept., 1883, Mrs. B. W. Smith removed to
another ward, and soon after resigned her posi-
tion as First Counselor to Mrs. R. R. Grant, who
then chose Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells to occupy the
position of First Counselor, and Mrs. Louisa
Spencer to fill the office of the Second Counselor.
	Soon after our settlement in this valley I heard
President Heber C. Kimball say the time would
come when the sisters of this Church would be
organized as well as the brethren.  Before the
decease of President Brigham Young the work of
organizing the branches of the Relief Society in
a Stake capacity, with President, two Counselors,
Secretary and Treasurer, was commenced by him,
﻿and since organizations of the Relief Society have
been made in each Stake of Zion, and when new
Stakes of Zion have been built up this organiza-
tion follows the other as soon as practicable.
	On June 19th, 1880, at a conference of the Re-
lief Society, held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
a central organization was formed, President
John Taylor officiating. He appointed Mrs.
Eliza R. Snow Smith to preside over all the or-
ganizations of the Relief Society in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the
world.  She chose for her Counselors Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
and for Secretary Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and for
Treasurer Mrs. M. Isabella Horne.
	In a meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, July 17th, 1880, President John
Taylor set apart and blessed the officers he had
appointed to preside over the Central Board of
Relief Society, thus effectually completing this
important organization.
	This Society in its several branches is auxil-
eary to the Priesthood in the various wards, and
works in harmony with the Bishops and acting
brethren of the ward.  If all are faithful and
true to their office and calling none of the poor
need suffer or want for the necessary comforts of
life, for the organization of the Church is so com-
plete and perfect in every part.
	We commenced our labors in the Society in the
Thirteenth Ward similar to that of other wards,
making quilts, rag carpets, buckskin gloves and
clothing of different kinds.  With these industries
and other sources, since April 18th, 1868, to
January 28th, 1885, we have gathered and dis-
bursed in our ward, in cash and sundries, $3,880.
30, and if we are all united we will soon have a
place to meet in of our own - a hall suitable for
the purpose.
	As a matter of record I would here state that in
1872, by the suggestion of our President, Eliza
R. Snow, and the approval of President Brigham
Young, the word Female prefixed to the name of
the Society, was dropped.  This was done by
vote in all the several branches of the organiza-
tion.
	In 1870 the Legislature of Utah gave to the
women of this Territory the right of suffrage.
	In 1872 the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was estab-
lished, the need of a woman's paper having been
agitated among the sisters for some time, by
means of which the women of Utah might repre-
sent themselves and tell their own story.  The
first number was issued June 1st, 1872, edited
by Miss Louisa L. Greene.  
	In establishing home industries of a public
character the sisters have labored earnestly and
diligently.  In 1874 the Deseret Silk Association
was organized, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent.

[Second column]
	Millinery stores, straw manufacture and co-op-
erative stores of this kind, and also for fancy arti-
cles, and home-manufactured goods have, from
time to time, been very successfully manipulated
by the sisters of the Relief Society.
	In 1876, at the time of the Centennial Exhibi-
tion in Philadelphia, a Woman's Fair was held in
the Old Constitution Building in this city, over
which Miss Eliza R. Snow presided, having
received an official appointment from the
Centennial Board in Philadelphia.  This fair
gave the women of Utah an excellent opportunity
of displaying their articles of handiwork of all
kinds and sorts imaginable, and it was visited by
thousands of people who called at Salt Lake in
traveling to and from the Centennial, as well as
many from foreign countries, whose route lay
across the continent.
	In October, 1876, President Young called upon
the sisters through the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to
lay up grain against a day of famine, and on the
11th of November following Mrs. E. B. Wells was
chosen President of the Grain Association.  At
the same meeting measures were taken to publish
a book called "The Women of Mormondom."
The Relief Society in the branches throughout
the Stakes of Zion have been engaged from year
to year ever since in the storing of wheat, and
many of them have built store-houses of their own,
in which to preserve it.
	Thousands of bushels have, since that time,
been stored away by the sisters, and they look up-
on it as one of the important missions given them
to perform.
	In May, 1882, the sisters formed an association
for the establishment of a hospital for the sick
and afflicted, and by unanimous vote Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith was chosen President.  The Deseret
Hospital was dedicated July 17th, 1882, President
John Taylor and other leading brethren officiat-
ing.
	The labors of the Women of Zion in an organ-
ized capacity are very effective for good, and are
of great benefit to the people, and here it might
be well also to mention that Young Ladies, Asso-
ciations, for mutual improvement, have been or-
ganized in all the Stakes of Zion in each ward,
commencing in 1867, by the advice and authority
of Brigham Young.  There are also what are
called Primary Associations for the children, un-
der the management of the sisters; these are also
organized in each bishop's ward, and are of great
benefit in teaching and instructing the little ones
in the principles of the Gospel, as well as impart-
ing to them the Spirit of the Lord in their young
and tender years.
	From this brief sketch of the Relief Society
and public labors of the women of the Latter-day
Saints, it is easy to see, judging from the fact that
a wide field of usefulness is open for the next
generation, that great results may be anticipated,
if we are wise, diligent and faithful in the perform-
ance of every duty, and in keeping the command-
ments of God.
						R. C. ATWOOD
[short line break]
	In connection with the article above we pub-
lish the following from the American Phrenologi-
cal Journal, New York issued February 1869.

		WOMAN'S SPHERE IN UTAH.

	The women of Salt Lake City, as will be seen
by the following communication, are not disposed
to be left behind in the race of improvement by
their Eastern sisters.  They feel the importance
of extending their sphere of labor and of useful-
ness, and of making for themselves room in the
world for the more complete exercise and de-
velopment of all their faculties.  The object of the
"Female Relief Society" is certainly a good one,
and we have no doubt but that the women who
have the work in hand will make it a means of
good not only to those who may receive its help
in time of need, but to themselves also, in the

[Third column]
promption of their own intellectual, social, and
moral improvement.
	A valued lady correspondent of Salt Lake City,
under date of November 13th, 1868, writes as
follows:

		SALT LAKE CITY, 13th November, 1868.
	The laying of the corner-stone of a "Temple
of Commerce," by the Female Relief Society of
the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, took place
yesterday.  The novelty consists in its being a
female enterprise developed under the fostering
care of Bishop R. T. Burton.  A large audience,
composed in part of members of the Society, was
on the ground.  At 2 p.m., after the usual form
on such occasions, the following address was
read by the president, followed by an extempore
speech by E. R. Snow on Woman's Relations to
the Sterner Sex; a speech by Bishop Burton,
commendatory and encouraging, and one by Mrs.
Bathsheba Smith appropriate to the occasion.
						MRS. S. M. K. 
			ADDRESS.
GENTLEMEND AND LADIES:
	"I appear before you on this interesting occasion
in behalf of the Female Relief Society, to express
thanks to Almighty God that the wheels of pro-
gress have been permitted to run until they have
brought us to a more extended field of useful
labor for female minds and hands.
	It will be readily admitted that woman's allotted
sphere of labor is not sufficiently extensive and
varied to enable her to exercise all her God-given
powers and faculties in the manner best calculated
to strengthen, and develop, and perfect her; nor
are her labors made sufficiently remunerative to
insure her that independence essential to true
womanly dignity.
	We realize that unless wisely conducted, our
practical operations may subject us to criticism
and censure.  But the consciousness that our
theory is correct, and our efforts in the direction
of human improvement and universal good, will
strengthen and encourage us, bestowing that
boon--
		"Which nothing earthly gives or can destroy,
		The soul's calm sunshine and the heartfelt joy."
	With feelings of humility and gratitude I stand
upon this consecrated rock, and contemplate the
anticipated result of the completion of this un-
pretending edifice (which I will here call "Our
Store"), the upper story of which will be dedicat-
ed to art and to science; the lower story to com-
merce or trade.  I view this as a stepping-stone
to similar enterprises on a grander scale.
	The object of the building is to enable the mem-
bers of the Society more perfectly to combine their
labor, their means, their tastes, and their talents
for improvement, physically, socially, morally, intel-
ectually, and financially, and for more extended
usefulness.
	Many gentlemen kindly proffer their aid in
forwarding this enterprise.  To them, in behalf
of the cause for which we labor, we extend
heartfelt thanks.
	We feel that our friends who so graciously pat-
ronize us will expect much at our hands.  We
promise you our best endeavors to meet your
highest expectations.  But we ask you merci-
fully to remember that the seat at the merchant's
counting-room table is a new one for us
to occupy, hence, as pioneers for our sex in this
department of female labor in our Territory, we
beg you not to be too severe in your criticisms,
but show your magnanimity by giving us an ap-
proving look and an occasional encouraging word.
With such helps, and the continued blessing of
God, we have all confidence that we shall be en-
abled to extend variously needed relief, and make
our labors a blessing to the cause of humanity."
	[Now this is a bold - may we not say grand? -
movement for the Salt Lake sisterhood.  With
the inevitable franchise, for which women are


asking, nay demanding, these Mormon wives and
mothers will be in the majority, and when they
vote it will fix things just as they please. We are
in favor of the movement. Let the usurping
"lords of creation" make their peace while they
may. Clear the track, for the locomotive is on
its way to Salt Lake City.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS FROM AN IRISH 
		LETTER.
	I have just returned from a trip into the country
of Antrim. The whole country, as far as I have
seen it, is surpassingly beautiful—new changes
and never ending green and brown, with hawthorn
hedges wherever one turns, and the long, winding
roads, and wild flowers—violets, daisies, oceans
of fragrant primroses and dandelions—growing in
reckless, profusion along the banks of streams,
hiding under the hedges, and bursting into view
through every gap in the green and thorny hedge.
Then there is the buttercup and a yellow blossom
about the size of a $20 gold peice, perhaps a
trifle, smaller, shaped much like a buttercup,
which grows in dank and boggy places, and is
called the mayflower. It is the brightest of gold-
en yellow, rich in color beyond belief almost.
	We are poor indeed, in wild songsters,compared
with this country. Our robbin is nearly twice the
size of that here, and the yellow and red-breasted
little fellow here sings twice as sweet. The wren
is a little midget;the pugnacious sparrow, the lark,
the thrush, the starling, the yellow yarling, the
blue top and many others, besides the magpie and
the noisy, cawing crow. Wherever trees grow to
a considerable height, there you will find a con-
gregation of crows building their huge and clumsy
nests in the topmost boughs, and keeping up a
never ending and almost deafening cawing.
	I heard the cuckoo, the other day, for the first
time in my left. I was wandering in the evening
along a deep, shady hedge, and I thought some
one in a distant field was calling his cows, when
the bird flew swiftly above me and disappeared in
a wooded hill in the neighborhood. I have heard
it several time since,but have not been able to see
it plainly as yet.
	The town Antrim, which I visited, is a rare old-
fashioned place, and is well worth a visit, and I
have regretted deeply that I did not reach it until
evening and that I left it in the darkness of the
same night.
	It has a quaint, quiet, old fashioned look about
it that was captivating; and its old time market,
and chapel, and the high wall and castle of Lord
Masserine make it a place worth cultivating. But
more than all this, than the splendid castle and
grounds of Lord Masserine, which I could see
very plainly, though only for a moment, was a
splendid trout stream, that sweeps down the side
of the town, past the castle, and empties into a
beautiful sheet of water called the Lough Neagh.
It is a fresh water body, said to be the largest
in the United Kingdom, and is about seven miles
wide, by fourteen miles long. Though the hour
was late and the sun had already sunk, I could not
resist a walk in the twilight, which lingers so long
in this clime, and I shall never regret it.
	Leaving the town, a winding, well kept road
leads through a wild wood, with green grass and
flowers springing everywhere, to a little bay, in
which were anchored yachts and fishermen’s
yawls, while all about were nets and the appliances
of fishermen. Away out upon the water, in the
clear and lingering twilight, the little boats could
be seen resting, seemingly without motion, on the
placid, unruffled bosom of the lake. The stars be-
gan to peep, the warm tints were gradually dying
out of the heavens, the vesper song of the birds
grew fainter and fainter, as the eye reached far-
ther and farther into the darkening west.
	If tears filled those eyes,because the vision was
limited, and because, though the heart so longed
to see dear ones away, away, away in the path of


the golden sun[-] none knew it but God and the
heavens and him who stood and gazed till his
heart was full and he could not speak. W.


MRS. WELDON.

	In presenting our readers with a pen portrait of
this lady, who has been so much before the pub-
lic of late, we may be allowed to express the
opinion that she has shown herself to be possessed
of unquestionable ability, indomitable persevere-
ance, and tireless energy.
	Without entering into questions of a personal
nature, it will, perhaps, be a matter of interest to
our readers to learn that at the outset of her life,
young, beautiful, well-born, accomplished, a
vocalist of unusual excellence, Mrs Weldon was
the object of admiration and adulation of the
society in which she moved “the observed of all
observers.”
	She was, as Miss Treherne, and, subsequently
as Mrs. Weldon, the idol of a circle, including
among its numbers members of the highest rank.
	Wealthy, and without care, she pursued the
career to which ladies of her class are accustomed,
when, in the ninth year of her married life, she
was unexpectedly consulted respecting the musi-
cal education of the daughter of a Welsh coun-
try parson.
	About this time Mrs. Weldon had been fram-
ing a plan for the founding of a school for music,
and although she had never given a singing-lesson
in her life, she commenced to teach Miss Gwen-
doline Jones vocalism. Out of that act sprang
the school established by her at Tavistock House,
Russell-square, London, which for many years
was the residence of the late Charles Dickens,
and carried on for many years.
	We have not space to record the trials, rebuffs,
and we may say afflictions, Mrs. Weldon has
passed through in her attempts to fulfil what she
has conceived to be her mission, nor to recount
the various vicissitudes of her career, but we
may allude to the wonderfnl success with which
she has conducted her various cases, and to the
consummate skill she has displayed throughout,
especially in the attack she has so triumphantly
made upon the present condition of the Lunacy
Laws.
	That the state of our legislation in this respect
cries aloud for improvement, is no new story; but
perhaps, it was never better exemplified than in
the trial in which Mrs. Weldon showed how easy
 it might be, under the existing laws, for a per-
fectly sane person to be put away in a lunatic
asylum.
	The learned Judge complimented the lady on
having brought the matter forward, and it is to be
hoped the outcome may be something really bene-
ficial to the community at large, and which may
put it out of the power of one or two interested
persons to devote a perfectly sane person to a life
which one shudders to contemplate.
	If Mrs. Weldon had done nothing but
this, she would have commanded our admiration,
but she has been very active in many other ways,
and among others, has done her best to advance
the cause of vocal music, as far as lies in her
power, and for this she deserves the thanks of
every amateur, though every one may not agree
with her methods of tuition.
	At present she maybe heard “discoursing sweet
sounds” at the London Pavilion, in Piccadilly,
and it is, perhaps, a good sign of the times when
the surroundings are such that a lady of Mrs.
Weldon’s culture and intelligence does not think
it beneath her to amuse the audience of a Music
Hall.	SELECTED.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ONE QUIET EVENING

	Husband away and baby in dreamland, I
sit here at home musing and pondering by

[Column 2]
myself on the condition of our people, as it has
been in the past, of what it is at present, and
trying to penetrate far into the future, 
as far as my mind's eye will allow me. But let my
mind wander where it will it most invariably
will turn back to this, the great momentous
Zion. As it has been said, it is truly a great
age, and words would be inadequate to express
my great joy that I am allowed to live in this
great day, and to be of the chosen Saints of
God.
	I ask myself, as I sit here in solitude, if we 
could look far ahead into the annals of history,
see there the world's history recorded as it is
now progressing, would there not be looks of
wonder,astonishment and, oh! of horror? Horror
at seeing recorded the wicked deeds being done
now upon the earth. Noble men and women
suffering through injustice done them, because
they believe in worshiping God according to
the dictates of their own consciences; laws
twisted and turned to suit their own vile pur-
poses, that is to work against the poor degraded
Mormon people (as they are usually called)
and to bring them nearer to civilization.
	Methinks, if they could look ahead into the
records of history, the mantle of shame might
cover their cheek, that is if they were capable
of such feelings. I am thankful to my Hea-
venly Father that I do not belong to this
honorable class. 
	I wonder how these oppressors of mankind 
will feel when they stand at that great and
terrible day at the bar of judgment, and hear
their sentence pronounced, by the judge of all
the world, "Depart ye, ye cursed, into everlast-
ing fire, prepared for the devil and his angels,"
and their terrible feelings at their doom,
andthen to hear the sentence of those now
persecuted, "Come, ye blessed of my Father,"
etc.
	We can well afford to be brave, for He who
has ordained all things in His own wise way,
has ordered these trials and tribulations to
come upon us, that we may grow more perfect,
and come nearer to God; and then, if we have
these trials to contend with. we will not have 
so much time to spend on fashion and other
frivolous pastimes, that help to lower and de-
grade the mind.
	An again, when we look around us it is
really surprising, to an intelligent, thinking
mind, how the petty vice, prejudice, is ruling
the world to-day. To think, in as an enlightend
age as this, that prejudice is allowed to rule
the people to such an extent as it does in re-
gard to the Latter-day Saints. To me it carries
an odor of ignorance with it wherever it is to
be found. Some people visit us and have the
opportunity of seeing and knowing for them-
selves, and yet they are so steeped in egotism
that they will not accept of these opportuni-
ties, seemingly in fear of finding out that we,
as a people, are greatly misrepresented, or
sometimes they are so egotistical that they
know it all any way, while some that have
never been here, and know nothing but from
hearsay, help to encourage and circulate all
kinds of bad reports against us.
	One incident that happened to an aunt of
mine I will here relate. While getting ready
to come to the far west, she stepped into a
milliner store, where she was well acquainted.
to make some purchases. After the usual
greetings were over, she said, "We are all
sorry to lose such a good citizen as you are; I
am afraid, that in coming in contact with those
people, you will become as degraded as they
are." She also said, "Why, the women work
so hard, they have to do all the work out of 
doors there!" My aunt replied in her usual
calm, dignified, straight forward manner, "In-
deed! is that really so?" and the lady again re-
plied, "Yes, that is really so." Then said my
aunt, "We read of beautiful cities and villages
being laid out there, beautiful buildings erected


and in fact I have seen them. Don’t you feel
proud of our sex, to know that they have such
great capabilities?” She seemed dumbfounded;
she knew not what to say; she stuttered, stam-
mered, and finally changed the subject.
	To me this little incident goes a great way
to show that prejudice, pride and arrogance
should be put out of reach in some far away
corner,that none could handle them only those
that are doomed to be destroyed. 	IDA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	The first day of May dawned calm, bright and beauti-
ful, as many of the children of the First Ward of Richfield
hoped it would.
	There was a surprise party on hand for Grandma Hay-
ward, First Counselor in the Primary Association of said
ward. It was the seventy-first birthday of this venerable
lady.
	At two o’clock parents and children were seen wending
their way toward the Social Hall, which was nicely decora-
ted with pictures, evergreens, etc., with baskets filled with
the very nicest of picnic. A half an hour later Sister Hay-
ward was cordially escorted to the hall by her husband and
the President of the Association, Sister Nancy Nebeker.
Here she found the members of the Association, Bishop,
of the ward, her only daughter, Mrs. Wm. Baker, her
grandchildren and great-grandchildren and other friends,
anxiously waiting her arrival. On entering she was
greeted by a song of welcome, sung by a number of the
larger girls of the Association. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Paul Poulson. A short programme was gone
through with, consisting of speeches, songs recitations, etc.
Miss Lizzie Baker, Sister Hayward's granddaughter, re-
cited the following piece, which was compos[-]ed for the oc
casion. 

	Dear Grandma Hayward, “I’m much surprised,"
		We think we hear you say,
	But now we greet you one and all
		On your seventy-first birthday.

	Tis not an empty show of love
		That we now offer you,
	But a love that’s grown within ourselves,
		From hearts, most firm and true.

	We call ourselves your children,
		We listen to your voice,
	We heed your good instructions,
		And in this we do rejoice.

	We rejoice that you are with us,
		That you have lived to see
	The blessings that are realized
		In the children’s Primary.

	Accept the feeble tokens
		That are offered to you here,
	'Tis but a small endeavor,
		Which we’ve made, your heart to cheer.
	
	And let us now assure you
		Our wishes we renew,
	That many, many birthdays
		May be in store for you.

	That for many, many years to come
		You may live to guide and bless
	The members of the Primary	 
		To lives of usefulness.

	After the poem Sister Hayward was presented with a
beautiful quilt, made by the President and older members
of the Association.	
	She was almost overcome with this token of love and
respect, but expressed her desire to aid in building up, and
in the advancement of the young people of Zion.
	Bishop Poulson then encouraged the children and all
present never to tire in well doing.	
	Our company then partook of a bounteous picnic, after
which the children joined in a dance until dusk; then all
went home, thinking over what an enjoyable time they
had spent.	Respectfully,
				NANCY NEBEKER.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	At a meeting of the South Primary Association of
Spanish Fork, a vote was taken and carried unanimously,
that we draft some resolutions of condolence to the


memory of Simeon James, son of Simeon O. Powell and
Edith Cornaby, who departed this life on the 19th of,
May, 1885, at the early age of nine years, eleven months
and twenty-three days.
	The following is a copy of the Resolutions:

	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much beloved brother and co-laborer in our Associa-
tion,
	We, The members of the same, offer our heart-felt sym.
pathies to the bereaved parents, grandparents and friends
of the deceased.
	Although he has been taken from our midst so young,
we feel that he has been taken for a wise purpose, and that
our loss is his gain.
		AGNES R. LEWIS.
In behalf of the Association.

	Whereas, In the divine providence and wisdom of our
Heavenly Father, we have been called to mourn the loss
of our beloved sister, Hannah Jones, who departed this
life May 9th, 1885, after a lingering illness, and
	Whereas, She has been an active teacher in the Relief
Society ever since its organization, and a willing worker at
all times, and devoted to the cause of truth and righteous-
ness, and earnest in helping to move it forward, we feel it
our bounden duty to express our appreciation of her labors,
and to ever hold her memory blessed. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved relatives and friends of the deceased, and pray
that the Heavenly Comforter may enable them to bear this
trial uncomplainingly.

	She has gone from this world of trial and care,
		To dwell with the noble and good;
	Her salvation is certain, for noble her aim,
		And true to her covenant she stood.

	Then grieve not for her, she has gone to her rest,
		The anthems of angels to swell;
	We will think of her kindly, her memory [-]s blest,
		And we know that for her—all is well.
		SUSAN GRANT, President,
		L. D. MUIR, Secretary.
Woods Cross, May 29th, 1885.


IN MEMORIAM. 

	We, the officers and members of the Fourth Ward
Y. L. M. I. A., do tender these Resolutions of Respect to
the memory of Sister Clara Erickson, who departed this
life April 30th, 1885, aged fourteen years, six months and
twenty-one days.
	Whereas, She was loved and respected by all her asso-
ciates, and,
	Whereas, She was a faithful member of the association,
therefore, be it	
	Resolved, That we esteem her faithful devotion to duty
as worthy the emulation of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved parents
and relatives in the loss of their dear one, not, however,
without the consoling reflection that she will come forth in
the morning of the first resurrection.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved fam[-]ly, that another be retained in the Asso-
cition, and that a third be sent to the EXPONENT for
publication.
						ANNA WILCOX,
	Committee,			ANNIE THACKERAY,
						LOUIE SMITH.

	LINES TO THE MEMORY OF CLARA.

Dear, faithful Clara’s left us,
	She’s mingling with the blest—
Gone from this world of sorrow
	To a happy home of rest.

She will no longer suffer pain,
	As while on earth she stayed,
And she'll gain eternal glory,
	For in God her hopes were laid.

Yes, her earthly toils are over,
	She’s free from care and pain;
She's sleeping with the blest
	'Til the Savior comes again.

Then should we mourn for her, dear friends,
	Or to despair be driven?—
For she has been a faithful child,
	And we know she is in heaven.

Though 'tis hard to part with those we love,
	And loved she's always been,


True to her parents and her friends,
	And free from every sin.

Then let us all live faithful,
	That when we sleep ‘neath the sod,
Our names may all be written	
	In the autograph of God.
		M. A. THACKERAY.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.

IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF

Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries

HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE; 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[Icon of a pointing finger] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.

H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes. 
	112, 114,116, 113 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full, and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Pointing Finger Icon] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER &, STEAM FITTERS

[Pointing Finger Icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Pointing Finger Icon]Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1885.	No. 3.


ODE TO JUNE.
O gentle, tender, rosy, blushing June,
	How fair thou art, how beautiful and bright,
And sweet the music of that wondrous tune
	That nature sings for thee both day and night— 
Sings ere the morning dawn lights up the day,
	When the lone-star its faithful vigil keeps:
And on, and on, through early morning grey
	While the tired world in peaceful silence sleeps.
Then, when the sun in splendor doth appear,.
	And golden light with blue and purple blends,
Myriads of birds in chorus, sweet and clear,
	Join nature’s anthem, which to heaven ascends;
And o’er the valleys fair, and on the heights;
	Where foot of man, perchance, has never trod,
There rests a glory; that the sunshine lights,
	Bearing the impress of the works of God.

Flow’rs of the garden, and of wood and field,
	Burst into beauty in their bright array,
A silent power o’er human hearts they wield,
	And light with joy the dark and lonely way.
Roses of June, a charm within them dwells,
	To shed their fragrance over all the land,
And this alone a subtle story tells,
	If we the mystery could understand.

O halcyon time, when June aud roses sweet
	Gladden the world for those who nature love,
For then her beauty seemeth most complete;
	The earth is fair, and heaven smiles above.
And all day long the zephyrs waft perfume
	Grateful as echoes of an old-time song;
While flowers of every kind spring into bloom,
	And birds and brooks sweet melody prolong.
E’en lovers voices; soft and low, are heard
	With all the tenderness and grace of youth,
Pouring forth rapture in each whisper’d word.
	Pledging their vows of constancy and truth.
These are the tributes of thy sunny hours,
	Yea, hearts made glad with all thy loveliness,
Birds, brooks and sunshine, tender words and flow’rs,
	Add much of joy to human happiness.
Not these alone, for in our hearts of hearts
	The June of love and faith and trust we keep,
Which confidence and hope in God imparts-
	A living fountain, pure and clear and deep.

As June's sweet harmonies our pulses thrill,
	And all our souls respond with freshness new,
So shall we to diviner music still,
	Pour forth those symphonies to nature true,
And though dark shadows cross  onward way,
	Or winter winds blow fierce and wild and strong,
That heav'nly music nature sings to-day
	Will lift our souls to God in rapturous song,

O joyful June! twin-sister thou of Jove,
	From realms enchanted comest thou each year,
O'er all the earth in sportive grace to rove,
	Waving thy fairy wand both far and near,
With which thon turnest one more golden page
	In the great volume of increasing years,
Wherein the history of every age,
	Since time began, till time shall cease, appears.

O June of life, and tenderness of you,
	What guerdon leavest thou of pleasant hours,
What precious treasures, or what gems of truth
	Are garner'd in the hearts of those rare flow'rs
Of love and friendship, that once bloomed for thee-
	Say, didst thou cherish for the coming time,
In hope and faith and loving constancy,
	These sacred flow'rs so heav'nly and sublime?
	June 25, 1885.						EMILE.


THE POLISH EXILE.

		[A CHARACTER.]

   Manners polished, easy, graceful, obliging,
delicate and unobstrusive, denoting superior
birth and education. The upper part of the
face handsome; hair black; eyes blue--a con-
trast not often seen--benevolence, the ruling
expression of the face, that of the eyes, pen-
sive and meditative, but when in conversation
they seem to ignite from within, and become
capable of a complex expression. Touch but
the chords on which, hung grievous sorrows
and injuries, such as few are called upon to
pass through, and they darted forth fierce and
riery rays, and the passion vein of the fore-
head would swell well nigh to bursting; pas-
sionate words would escape, the lip curled with
a bitterness unnatural to it; but soon would
come the crushing sense of the impotence of
such feelings; then would be felt, in all its
agony, the entire prostration of all power in
SELF, the eyes would swim in boiling tears,
that seemed to scald instead of soothe, and
memory, that curse and blessing of our exist-
ence, would, for the moment, well nigh extin-
guish the kindly feeling of that kind heart;
but 'twould pass--the swollen vein would
gradually  disperse, that tried heart would
cease its mighty pulsation, its bitter throbbings,
and the countenance wear again the index of
peace and serenity.
   Few have witnessed such sad extremes of
fortune.  Not only were house and lands, home
and hearth broken up, but every tie to which
the heart fondly links itself--all were reckless-
ly severed, and left that mighty heart seared
on the Pyre of Patriotism! But though all
these were rent asunder friends sprang up
around the exile to speak the consoling word,
and administer both to the mental and to the
corporeal. Friendship, warm and faithful, none
could drive away, no change of fortune could
extinguish. It hovered like a guardian angel
over the doomed, and poured the "oil and
wine" of sympathy into the lacerated bosom
of the exile and the solitary.
   Fond of solitude--society recalling too
vividly sad reverses and bereavements; but
within the circle that friendship drew around,
cheerful, polite, and even for a few moments,
sometimes gay; but soon an air of sadness and
indifference would be visible, for retrospective
thoughts would crowd upon that mind, and
the laugh would become hysterical and the
countenance indicate that "when the heart is
better than the fortune there is something that
makes even affection bitter!” Yet over all
there was thrown a dignified resignation, that
ever exerted its supremacy--and gratitude for
the sympathy and loving kindness of friends,
so liberally tendered, was never for a moment
extinguished by one who was singularly sensi-
tive and appreciative.
   How I longed at that moment to be rich
and powerful, that I might bless myself in
blessing one who stood in such impressive
need.
   Who can see a "countenance sicklied o'er
with the pale cast of thought", which will in
future shine but through memory, and not
yearn to cheer, to lighten, to brush off--if only
with a feather from the downy wing of Chris-
tian love, a portion of that grief which "passeth
show?" to inflate the shrinking heart with
hope and joy, and raise the drooping head.
Thank God! this can be done without money
and without price! Yes, yes, this has been
done without the MAMMON of this world.

	Hail! heaven-born sympathy! magnetic power,
	The sweetest cordial in th' afflictive hour.
	Tho' poor we be, and impotent to save,
	This precious balm the loving always have.
	Oh, why is sorrow, why corroding care
	To some apportioned in so large a share?
	Their lives one scene of desolating woe,
	And joy and happiness they rarely know--
	Their sun of peace but gilds life's chequered scene,
	Like angel visits, "few and far between;
	'Tis not for sinners to arraign the rod--
	"Be still," ye mortals, know that I am God!
	Father of Love, we bow before Thy throne,
	And trembling faith would lisp, "Thy will be done."
							HANNAH T. KING.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
			OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
			Continued.
	On the fourth of July, 1838, the Saints as-
sembled in Far West to celebrate the day, and
I think the spot for the temple was that day
dedicated.  Our national flag, the stars and a
stripes, attached to the liberty-pole, floated 
gaily in the breeze.  All were happy and joy- 
ful, as none but Saints know how to be.
	Shortly after the Fourth a terrible storm
arose; the thunder and lightning were terrific;
the liberty pole was struck and shattered by a
bolt, foreshadowing coming events, as the se-
quel proved.
	Not long after this rumors came to Far
West, from different settlements of the Saints,
of threats, and depredations being committed
by small parties of Missourians.  There was
trouble in Davis County—a battle was fought
on Crooked River, and Brother David Patten,
one of the Twelve, and some others of the
brethren were killed.  Then came the news of
the terrible massacre at Haun’s Mill, and be-
fore we were hardly aware of it a large army
of the mob were marching towards Far West,
with an exterminating order from the Gove-
nor.  The brethren hastily got together wag-
ons, logs, boards, and whatever they could find
that would do, and threw up a breastwork to
protect themselves, in a measure, from the bul-
lets of the murderous mob.  The mob halted
when within about half a mile of Far West.
A white flag was sent out by the mob, and
were met by a party of our brethren, also
carrying a white flag.  The mob demanded
three persons to be brought out of the city,
then their design was to massacre the rest.
	The day following another flag was sent by,
the mob, and some of our brethren met them
and learned that they were commissioned by
the chief executive, and were authorized to
exterminate the Mormons en masse, and they
had three thousand troops under command to
carry these orders into effect.  Col. Hinkle
went out to meet the flag of truce, and secret-
ly made arrangements to deliver up the lead-
ers of the Church to be tried and punished; to
have the property of the Saints delivered over
to the mob to pay their expenses and all dam-
ages done them, and also arranged that the
Saints should leave the state, and their arms
be delivered up to the enemy.
	In the evening of the same day the first step
in this base treachery was taken.  Hinkle re-
presented to the Prophet that the officers of
the militia desired an interview with Him, in
the hope that a settlement might be brought
about without carrying out the Governor’s ex-,
terminating orders.


Brother Joseph and others complied with
the request, and were delivered into the hands
of the mob, as prisoners of war, by the treacher-
ous and cowardly George. M. Hinkle. The
brethren were put into a hollow square and
strongly guarded. The mob then set up a
most horrid, unearthly yell, and one might
well imagine that it came from the throats of
demons of the lower regions. It was a sound
long to be remembered, and one that no person
could desire to hear but once in their lives, es-
pecially under like circumstances.
	On the morning of the 1st of November the
ougle sounded for the brethren to assemble.
Every man went well armed, and was paraded
and delivered over to the mob.
	The brethren were surrounded and required
to surrender their arms, and were guarded all
day, while the soldiers went from house to
house, plundering, pillaging, destroying and
driving, in some instances, women and children
from their homes.
	Before the mob disbanded, after securing
the arms of the brethren, they rode through
the city, and passed so close to our house that
we could hear their remarks.
	A short time after this I was out doors, when
a party of the mob came up with their guns on
their shoulder, almost to our door, and shot a
two year old heifer. I felt no fear; for I had
got pretty well used to seeing mobocrats by
this time, but stood and see them skin and cut
it up and carry  it away.
	A court martial was held by the officers of
the mob and Joseph, and the brethren that
were with him, without having the privilege of
saying a word in their own defense, were sen-
tenced to be shot on Friday morning on the
public square in Far West, in the presence of
their families and friends. At this General
Doniphan objected, saying, he would have
nothing to do with such cold-blooded actions,
and he would withdraw his company from the
army. This probably saved the lives of the
prisoners, at that time, as the sentence was
changed, and they were taken to Independence,
Jackson Co.  Fifty-six more of the brethren
were taken prisoners by General Clark, among
whom was my father. They were collected
within a small circle on the public square,
surrounded by a strong guard, and there they
were compelled to sign a deed of trust, which
deed was designed to put their property into
the hands of a committee, to be disposed of to
pay all the debts which had been contracted
by any, and all that belonged to the Church.
Also to pay all damages the mob might have
sustained from any person whatever. And all
those who denied the faith were exonerated
from signing this deed of trust. They were
then marched and confined in Burk's tavern,
in Far West, Nov., 1838.
	General Clark came in and said to the
brethren there, that they were guilty of all
manner of crimes, and although they might
not be more guilty than others who were not
taken prisoners, yet he intended to make an
example of them. The nature and enormity
of their crimes were such that they were not
fit to live among a moral people, in moral so-
ciety. Therefore they should not be allowed
to live in the state; that it was a part of the
treaty made by General Lucas, that the Mor-
mons should leave the state and that was the
Governor's orders also. He said he would
permit them to stay until the weather became
warm, and if they were not off then he would
pledge himself that he would drive them out
of the state; and if he had to come again he
would show them no quarter.
	They were then driven to Richmond, Ray
Co., Missouri, like so many dumb animals, and
confined in Richmond jail. The weather was
cold, the ground was covered with mud and
slush, and when they camped for the night
they lay upon the ground, and some were
without a blanket to wrap around them to
protect them from the cold and frost. But I
will let my father tell his treatment at that
time, while a prisoner, in his own words, as he
wrote them in the form of a prayer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
	WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

     "Bro. Kimball called upon father to speak.
He arose and said:  'I suppose, as I am the old-
est person in the room, you may look upon me,
in some degree, as a father. I don't know
that I can say any more, in essence, than what
your Father Kimball has said. He has spoken
of several things, especially of faith, which, if
acted upon, will redound to your glory.
Brother Heber has spoken of the parable of
the watch--it is a good one, and if we keep
the watch wound up we cannot sin, for if a
man has the spirit of truth and righteousness
he cannot sin, and when he is possessed by the
opposite spirit he cannot do anything correct.
When we have a bad spirit, and call upon the
Lord, we will find that He is a great deal farther
off than we would imagine. Brother Heber
touched upon doing right--I believe that there
is no man in the whole circle of my acquaint-
ance, that intends to do better and work right-
eousness more than Bro. Kimball, nor one that
comes nearer to the point in so doing; there-
fore it behooves you to hold up his hands, and
as he advances in knowledge, so will you the
same; as his vessel is filled, he will pour it on
to your heads. God is no respecter of persons,
but He sets men on the earth to teach His peo-
ple, as masters are set to instruct little child-
ren. God will instruct His people from time to
time as they can bear knowledge, and when we
have fulfilled the things our messenger has
given us, another will come with fresh intelli-
gence. I have no doubt but what many of
you here will live to see the Ancient of Days
come--even old Father Adam.
     We are now in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times, and every ordinance or office
that has been practised in the church of form-
er days, will be revived in this dispensation,
even to the offering of sacrifice. Malachi
says, 'before the great and terrible day of the
Lord, I will send Elijah, the prophet, lest
there be not faith enough on the earth, and I
smite it with a curse.'
	'And for that reason was Joseph Smith sent
to turn the hearts of the fathers to the child-
ren, etc., to prepare them for the coming of
the Lord--and so He will continue to send us
intelligence by messengers, till at last, old
Father Adam shall at last appear to see his
children.
     We are too apt to judge our brethren unjust-
ly, and we should be very careful how we do
so, when we know that they are governed by
the Spirit of God. We should mind and keep
the helm of the ship in our hands, lest the
helm slip a little, a storm come on, and we lose
our latitude and longitude--but if we have
the spirit of the Lord we never shall get out
of our latitude and longitude. We should be
careful and keep the Spirit of God on our side,
for the path will grow brighter and brighter
until the perfect day.
     'Now, brethern, do you not think that it
would be a heaven on earth if there was per-
fect confidence among you--and this is heaven,
and all the heaven that we have will be that
which we make ourselves. I have sometimes
thought of the words of the Psalmist--'How
pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in
unity,' etc. A two fold cord is stronger than
one: and take it in a family and see the neces-
sity, as well as the beauty, of union. What

[column 2]
shall I say more, brethern? I could sit down
and chat with you, I suppose, and answer al-
most any question on principle--I always rejoice
when I am able to throw light upon any mind
that is seeking intelligence.  Bro. Kimball
was observing that he had done the best he
could, and I verily believe it, under the cir-
cumstances. It is our duty to mind the ad-
monitions of the Spirit, lest we be shoaled on
the quicksands of evil. Now, I say, hearken
to the admonitions of your father, for his
teachings are good--and as for this dancing--
when we dance we should do it as much by
the spirit as we would pray. The Almighty
does not intend that a man will stay on his
knees twenty-four hours praying, but he is
willing that we should have our recreations,
but we must not get giddy, nor transcend the
bounds of reason and right, or we will get out
of the way, and have to fall back and hunt up
a position of right again. Peter sums up the
case in a few words--'add to your faith vir-
tue, and to your virtue knowledge, temperance,
and withal be patient, and last of all godliness
and brotherly kindness; and if ye observe
these things ye will not be barren nor unfruit-
ful in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.'
     'I know I have my faults as well as your-
selves, and my principal fault is impatience,
and when I preach I always hew to the line, if
the chips fly in my face. And now I feel to
bless you all in the name of Jesus Christ.'
     "Bro. Kimball arose and said: 'I have been
much edified by the conversation of Bro.
Whitney. We always had the same feelings
in common, and our views always met, and
our thoughts always flow in the same channel
--I don't know why it is so.
     'Don't you see that there should be temper-
ance in everything--dancing, eating and
drinking--now, I love to dance myself, but let
us learn to be subject to government in all
things. I am your head, your law giver and
king, and will be to all eternity, and I am re-
sponsible to my head and President, and you
are responsible to me your file leader.  I be-
lieve that some of my old progenitors, of
whom I have no knowledge, will appear and
tell me when the time shall come fore me to
rise up and administer in the ordinances for
them, and I shall receive a great deal of
knowledge from them, which I could not re-
ceive directly by revelation. Now, this idea
you never thought of, did you, boys? and I
want you to keep it secret within the walls of
your own breasts. I want to have power, when
I see my brother or sister afflicted, to tell death
to depart, and it shall depart. Every one has
the greatest obstacles to govern himself. I have
greater trouble to govern Bro. Heber, and put
self down than anything else. I always want
a clerk to attend my meetings, so that like to-
day we can have a record to look back upon
for our edification.
     'I never felt better in my mind, but my
body is ailing. I do delight in intelligence,
and delight to see an intelligent mind. I do
not know, what I know, unless by the utter-
ance of the Spirit; and if you wish to know
anything of me, put a paper in your pocket
and minute things down, that you may ask
me questions, and it will not impoverish me.
     Now, I feel to bless you in the name of the
Lord. I feel as if we have had a good time;
my feelings are good towards you all. Bishop
Whitney is as honest a man as there is this
side of heaven, and I want you to receive his
counsel as one of the Judges in Israel.'

     "Miss Helen Taylor, the step-daughter of
John Stuart Mill, and efficient member of the
London school board, has accepted a nomina-
tion to Parliament, and will make a canvass
for the seat."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE AND HOPE.

O lost but loved one!  tell me why
Thy mystic charm I cannot fly.
And though to love thee less I try,
All, all is in vain?
If from that siren glance I flee,
'Tis but ot sigh and dream of thee.
And till again thy face I see,
'Tis lingering pain.
In social throng, at play or ball,
The magnet thou to me of all,
The queen that holds my heart in thrall
	With constant sway.
One glance from out those love-lit eyes
One word from lips whose sweetness vies
The fabled nectar of the skies,
And I obey.
The heedless winds may hear thee speak
The insect, sporting, kiss thy cheek.
And other souls thy smiles may seek
	And haply find;
But I, thy lover, from afar
Must gaze as on some distant star,
And wage with faith unequal war,
	All unresigned.

Must we like streams run on forever,
Though nearing oft, uniting never,
Shall cruel doom our lives dissever
	In heaven as here?
Or, in the light of happier spheres,
Where live our hopes without our fears,
Will mutual love smile through our tears
	And blend us there?


WEST POINT IN NOVEMBER. 

	A dull and wintry looking morning it was
when we left New York to visit West Point.
I shall never forget the day. As we rode
along the west shore of the river—named after
Heindrich Hudson, and immortalized by that
prince of imaginative writers, Washington
Irving—the clouds, which had gathered threat-
eningly, paled, began to disperse, and the sun
broke out rich and warm. 	
	The train rolled over an undulating country
of a rather unpromising character for a brief
distance, and dashed through several tunnels.
Emerging from one of these, however, a
magnificent sweep of the Hudson River and 
the opposite shore rose full upon the view, He
must have been a stoic of the olden times and
most approved school, who, gazing on this fair
sight for the first time, could resist an exclama-
tion of delight and surprise, or whose pulses
would not give an exultant bound at the en-
chanting prospect spread out before his vi[-]ion.
The stream resembles a lake more than a river.
No current is preceptible. The yachts, the
river steamers and fishing yawls sped up and
down and danced upon its placid waters as
they sailed. Along the banks and up the side of the mountains—or deeply wooded hills,
which hem in the stream on either side—are
pleasant little villages, charming and elegant
summer residences, and here and there a 
manufacturing structure.
	It is a little less than fifty miles from New
York to West Point, and the distance is won-
derfully short, to one to whom the scene has
not grown familiar. The train discharges the
West Point visitor at a point below the reserva-
tion, and speeds on its way through a tunnel
right under the hill on which the reservation is
located.
	To realize the beauty of West Point one
must stroll fully over the reservation. Situa-
ted on a table land, which swells abruptly to
the east, the river makes a majestic curve
around it, and thus a magnificent view of the
river is obtained on the north, the east and
the south, while fringing both sides are the low,
slowly rising hills, deeply bedded with woods.
The mountains gird the reservation on the

[Column 2]
west, while to the east is a preciptious bluff
looking down upon the smooth waters be-
neath.
	The educational buildings and cadet quar-
ters are on the south side of the plateu. The
 residences of officers are also on the south and 
some on the west. Those to the west are 
skirted by a drive on the east, and are not un-
like the quarters of the officers at Fort Doug-
las, only the drive there is on the west with
the mountains on the east—at West Point it
is just the reverse: the drive is on the east of
the quarters, while the mountains form a back-
ground on the west.  The broad parade or
drill ground is on the north and east of the
barracks and officers' residences, while from
the north end, or the hotel, a superb view may
be had of the river and the town of Newburgh,
at which place Washington established his
head-quarters.  (The building is said to be
standing yet, and is preserved by the State.)
at the north side, also, are many of the guns,
or cannon captured during the Mexican war,
and on the east are trenches and earth works
in all stages of construction, used doubtless in
the education of cadets.
	The riding school is down in the east, be-
neath the brow of the hill and nearer the
river.
	 All these details are unimportant, save that
they add to the reputation of the place in a
mental sense, nor are they entirely without
picturesqueness, while they give an air of
strength and majesty which would otherwise
be wanting.
	The view, looking from any point, and in
any direction, is incomparable, and leaves an
impression upon the mind that cannot be ef-
faced.  But the winding river, broad, placid
and bright in the sunlight, with the white sails
dotting its surface, the pleasant villages and
charming villas, half hidden amid the thick
growth of evergreen trees bordering the lan-
guid stream on either side, the scattered tokens
of success of American armies, the structures
for the education of the American youth in the
art of war, with their pleasant and delightful
surroundings, all, all are as nothing compared
with the rare, the romantic beauty of the walk
that winds, along the river bank, and nestles so
closely under the brow of the hill, on which
the grounds and buildings are situated as to
hide all evidence of their existence from the
view “Flirtation Walk”—name well suited to
those whose weightiest thoughts are as the
bubble that floats measuredly by on the grand
stream (the waters leaving the shore at their
feet) and which the lightest breath of heaven
will destroy, only to give place to another as
short of life and as evanescent.
	Straying along the winding way one can
but wonder how nature creates souls so lacking
in depth as to withstand its spell, its pensive
witch[-]ry, or fail to be moved by that sweet,
that touching melancholy which alone kindles
in the trusting heart purified and hallowed
fellings, which alone can fill the mind with
bright, ennobling, glowing aspirations. Art
has done much to enchance the beauty of a
scene naturally enchanting; and the art was
true, for its presence can hardly be detected.
Save that the walk underneath the precipitons
hill, and just out of the water's reach, is kept
clean and safe, save for the occasional rustic
seat, placed in out of the way corners for the
rest of travelers and the gratification of lovers,
save for the steps provided for safety in pre-
cipitous places, or where leading down to
springs of water, all is natural, all rustic, all
enchanting beyond the power of words to de-
scribe.
	There are two or three paths leading down
to the walks, from the plateau above. Once in
this winding path, all evidence of military
academy and its immediate surroundings are
lost; nothing but the broad stream; with boats

[Column 3]
gliding over its unmurmuring bosom, the
wooded hills on the other side, with the lazy,
curling smoke rising from houses buried in the
evergreen foliage, nothing but the steep and
overhanging bluff to be seen. This walk leads
into the most delightfully squestered nooks;
through small groves, over rough and brokən
places; here a huge, rough stone, seamed
through and through, each seam filled with
fresh, green moss; yonder is a tiny dell. There,
below that overhaning cliff, is a most delight-
ful grotto, filled with damp moss, and trailing
vines everywhere, while the odor is fresh and
sweet; here the denuded trees overarch, and
around that turn you will find a recess with
the most convenient seat imaginable in it for
those listening to the shy, soft tones of one, the
pleading words of the otehr, and living, for
the sweet moment at least, in the tender glance
and the radiant smile from loving eyes and
warm and tempting lips—oblivious to all that
surrounds—to all the world. And foreer, to be
viewed from every point, the grand old
river glides serenely on, the unmoved, the un-
heeding confident of the enraptured poet; of
the uttered rhapsodies of the deep and abiding
admirer of nature; of the pensive sighs of
modest maidens; of the warm and passionate
pleadings of the ardent lover; of the flippant
gibes of the self-satisfied cadet, whose whole,
whose ever-recurring, ever-uttered, persistently
out-spoken idea is that to imagine anything
above or equal to a West Point cadet is the 
measure of absurdity.
	There's not a rustle even of a tiny leaf, as
I move along the path (my soul drinking deep
of the calm, the serene, the holy enchantment
of the scene) that does not awaken tender
thoughts and sweet and touching recollec-
tions, that does not fill me with better
impulses, with truer, manlier aspirations. I 
have long been confirmed in the belief that
surroundings are potent features in the develop-
ment of character. Believing this I cannot
understand why it is that the influence of the
magnificent scenery, everywhere to be seen
along the Hudson River, and especially at
West Point, should not produce, even among
those striving to be skilled in war, deep lovers
of art, and those imbued with such an ardent
spirit of poetry, such as can find satisfaction
and relief only in individual expression, in the
utterance of the thoughts that forever well up
in the hearts of those who are deeply moved by
nature in her endless, her manifold and varied
forms, all forever beautiful.
	The day is sombre and cold. Ever and
anon the clouds gather and a storm threatens,
but each time the darkening clouds disperse
and the sun again comes out bright. They
tell me the scene is cold and cheerless now;
that compared with the appearance of the
place in June, or during the spring and sum-
mer the present sight is as nothing.  I can
hardly believe it, and yet realize it must be so.
But should I be denied the happiness of a
visit when the recurring seasons attire this
dreamy and romantic spot in her lovliest robes
of green and flowers, still the picture it pre-
sents on this fitful November day will ever re-
main bright, glowing and pensively beauti-
ful.
	It was night when we left to return to New
York. We took the Grand Central down the
east side, passing Tarrytown, Sing Sing,
Harlem and other points. The moon shone
full and clear, and as we swept along the edge
of the river, now filled with steamers, yachts
and tiny boats, all lit and dancing on the great
river, the weird beauty, the romantic halo
which the rich moonlight sheds over all it
floods upon, served only to make deeper and
more lasting the impressions of this day, be-
causes of that which the eye had beheld, and
which had already sunk deep into the soul.
						WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00 Ten
copies for the price of nine.
Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I.  Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	*	*	JULY 1, 1885.


OLD FOLKS’ EXCURSION.

	It is now ten years since the first excursion of
the old people, on May 14th, 1875.  Each time it
has been a success, giving much happiness to
those whose life is necessarily more or less mo-
notonous.  It was a happy idea--the suggestion
of Brother C. R. Savage--to give the aged this
annual treat, and must afford considerable satis-
faction to those who first engaged in the affair, to
know how popular these excursions have become,
and how much the old people have enjoyed these
delelightful “outs.”
	Those who have contributed of their means to
help the committee make the excursions in every
way successful, will certainly feel doubly blest, and
more than repaid in the genuine enjoyment of
those who are decending the down hill of life.
	On Tuesday, June 23rd, by invitation of the
committee, we had the pleasure of joining the
party of veterans, who went by the Utah and Ne-
vada Railway to Garfield to spend the day.  There
were about 600 persons over seventy years of age,
and quite a number of others, making in all about
900.  The Sixth Ward silver band played some
good music at the depot as the train started.
The morning was delightfully cool after the re-
freshing shower on Monday, and the train arrived,
after about an hour's ride, at Garfield Station,
where tables and seats had been prepared under
the bowery to accomodate the party.  The Old
Folks' choir, led by W. H. Foster, sang some
pleasing songs, and Brother Dunbar played sever-
al tunes upon the bagpipes, which gave variety to
the enjoyment.
	There was much social conversation, and the
meeting of old friends and shaking hands was in
itself a great pleasure.  The picnic seemed very
plentiful; indeed all seemed not only to have an
abundance, but a variety, and cold and hot water,
tea and coffee were furnished by the committee, 
who spared no pains to make all the party feel at
home, and enjoy themselves.
	Some indulged in the luxury of a bath in the
salt water, but everybody seemed to participate in
the general good feeling that prevailed through-
out the entire day.
	About 11 o’clock the train from Tooele County
arrived with two hundred more, and carriages
and wagons brought about 400, mostly from
Tooele and Grantsville.  They came supplied
with everything good to entertain their party, and
plenty to spare; also some very beautiful flowers,
strawberries and cherries, which gave their tables
a handsome appearance, and were very inviting.
	At .2 p.m. the committee had all arranged to
open the meeting.  A few very old people were
seated on the stand; the oldest person was Mary
Bishop, from Manchester, England, who will be
ninety-nine on the 4th of September next.. The
next oldest was James Berghon, English, who will
be ninety-three on the 18th of next September.
The choir sang "Sweet By and Bye," and prayer
was offered by Elder George Goddard, after
which "Fleeting Years" was very sweetly ren-
dered by the choir.
	By this time the special train, which brought
the Presiding Bishop and his Counselors, had ar-
rived, and when the Bishops were seated upon
the stand, Brother Goddard, of the Old Folks
Committee, moved that Bishop W. B. Preston
succeed the late Bishop E. Hunter as chairman of
said committee.  The motion was seconded and
carried unanimously.
	Then came the distribution of prizes, which is
always  exciting time, and immensely interest-
ing.  Those over ninety, who wore white ribbon
bows, were served first, and of course received
the best; after that, the two oldest people from
Tooele and Grantsville; and we much not forget
to state that the brass band from Grantsville came
in their handsome uniform and furnished excellent
music for the day.  Mr. Radcliffe, the leader of
the band, was given a fine centennial watch, for
the musical services rendered the old folks.
Next, prizes were given to all those present who
had pulled handcarts across the plains; then to
the man who had the greatest number of living
children, and to the lady who had been longest a
widow; to Bishop Alexander McRae, who had
been in prison with the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Liberty Jail, Mo.; to Gretha Anderson, who had
walked the entire distance across the plains; to
the oldest man and woman from the Sandwich
Islands, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, France,
Germany, Switzerland, Australia and Canada; to
Brother and Sister Ringwood of this city, who
have lived together fifty-nine years; to the hand-
somest man over eighty, the prize being awarded
to Brother Lewis of this city, the old ladies ren-
dering the decision.  Prizes to all the blind; to
several women over seventy, who go out washing;
to the oldest bachelor and old maid present; to
Sister Booth of India, who resides in Beaver, and
who was not present. 
	The prizes consisted of rocking chairs, a trunk, 
hats, caps, bonnets, shoes, stockings, socks, dress
patterns, parasols, canes, tea coffee, wine, china
and glass sets, copper tea kettle, metal tea pots,
etc., etc.  Most of them were handsome and dur-
able articles.
	After the prizes were distributed, the old peo-
ple were treated to cakes, candy, oranges and
lemonade.
	At seven o'clock the party were all on board the
train, homeward bound, and all feeling happy and
joyful for the good time they had enjoyed together
during the day.  It was an interesting sight to see
so many of the aged, and to think that the Gospel
had brought most of them together, here in this
far off western land, and to contemplate the varie-
ty of experiences through which each one of these
had passed.
	God bless the old folks, and all those who
honor them and contribute to their welfare and
happiness.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society of this Stake of Zion held
a quarterly conference in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly rooms on Friday, June 26th, commence-
ing at 10 a. m., and 2 p. m., Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding. A synopsis of proceedings will be
given in our next issue. Saturday June 27, the
Primary Conference of this stake was held in the
Assembly Hall, commencing at 10 a. m., Mrs.
Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Reports were re-
ceived from nearly all the wards in the stake, in-
terspersed with songs and recitations from the
several Associations. In the afternoon at 2 p. m.
the Y. L. M. I. A. of this stake, held conference
in the Assembly Hall, Miss Nellie Colebrook,
presiding.
	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society of the
16th Ward of this city, was held in the ward
meeting house in Monday, June 22nd, commence-

[Column 2]
ing at 2 p. m., Mrs. Diana Reid presiding. The
Bishop and his Counselors were present. After
the usual opening exercises, the minutes and re-
port were read, which were very satisfactory,
and the meeting was addressed by Sisters E.
Howard, E. B. Wells, B. W. Smith and M. I.
Horne. President Reid made a few closing re-
marks, and the meeting was dismissed with prayer
by the Bishop. A bounteous repast had been
prepared by the members of the Society, and
tables were spread in the hall, very handsomely
ornamented with a variety of flowers and
most delicious fruits of the season, at
which the guests were seated and waited
upon by the officers of the Society,and some of the
young ladies of the ward.
	THE first annual meeting of the Relief Society of
Granger, was held on Monday the 15th of June,
1885, at the school house, at 2 p. m.,Mrs Mary E.
Porter presiding. After singing, prayer was
offered by Bishop Dan McRae, and after singing
again, minutes of the organization were read and
a yearly report, which showed that the sisters had
been diligent and faithful in the discharge of their
several duties. The meeting was addressed by
Sisters B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells and E. H.
Woodmansee of Salt Lake City, and by Elder
Geo. B. Wallace, Bishop D. McRae and Presi-
dent Porter. A very good spirit prevailed in the
meeting, and the Bishop expressed his approval
of the sisters’ labors, and stated it was his inten-
tions, sometime in the near future, to have a
Young Ladies Association and a Primary organ-
ized. The benediction was pronounced by Coun-
selor A. Sorenson. The Sisters from the city
the Bishop and wife, Elder Geo. B. Walace
and wife, Elder Park and wife, dined at the
residence of M. B. Porter, and feasted upon
strawberries, and after the close of the meeting
partook of delicious ice cream, prepared by Sis-
ter Mary Gerber.
	BY courtesy of Mr. James Dwyer, we have re-
ceived the new work just recently issued, entitled
“The Fall of the Great Republic.” It is by Sir
Henry Standish Coverdale, and is indeed quite a
remarkable book. It is written in a very novel way,
and the most dreadful calamities are portrayed in
a literary style, calculated to hold the attention,
though one likes not the subject. It is very unlike
any other book we have ever seen. The author
evidently believes what he writes, and is thorough-
ly in earnest, though he tells things in his own pe-
culiar style. He begins with 1895, as though the
world had gone through all the important changes
which are afterwards graphically described. Se-
cret organizations, from dissatisfied conditions,
brought about through the conflict between capital
and labor, the hatred of the rich by the working
people, these and similar causes, growing and as-
summing an alarming phase, culminate in outbreak
and lawlessness, until there is a general outbreak
in the United States, commencing, according to
his prediction, in Chicago, on the 19th of April,
1887, when he describes a horrible carnival of
blood, rapine and incendiarism, which he further
depicts in detail. The book, in many points, is
similar to the prophecies of Joseph Smith the
Prophet; at any rate there is no doubt in the mind
of every true Latter-day Saint, that the troubles
are already beginning to develop that will bring
about alarming and terrifying consequences, that
will end in a most serious struggle, previous to the 
time of Christ’s coming to reign a thousand years
in the millennium of peace. The book is for sale
at James Dwyer’s, Main Street, price, 35 cents,
and will be mailed to any address, postage paid,
on receipt of price, either in cash or two cent
stamps. The book is worth a thorough perusal.
	ON Tuesday, June 30th, a social party convened,
by invitation of Sister Marinda Hyde, at the resi-
dence of her son, Alonzo, to celebrate the seven-
tieth anniversary of the birth of this most esti-


mable and venerable lady. Her birthday, how-
ever, occurred on Sunday, the 28th of June.
There was a delicious repast set for the ladies, at
six p.m., with delicacies to satisfy an Epicurean,
and the tables were handsomely ornamented with
flowers. After supper the ladies indulged in a
little speech making in honor of the happy occas-
ion, and to express the sentiments of love and
admiration they felt for this honored mother in
Israel. Sister Phebe Woodruff made the open-
ing speech, and was followed by Sisters H. T.
King, C. Horrocks, M. I. Horne and S. M. Kim-
ball. Sisters Hyde then made a few remarks in
response to the good feelings of the sisters, fol-
lowed by Sister Riter, B W. Smith, Julia Pack,
Sisters E. B. Wells, E. Howard and Julia C.
Howe. It was a pleasant and happy gathering of
congenial friends and acquaintances. Among the
guests assembled were Sisters Laura Miner and
Emily Chase, married daughters of Sister Hyde,
Sisters E. S. Taylor, R. M. Carrington, S.
A. Reese, Helen Mar Whitney, Lizzie R. Young,
Rachel R. Grant, Annie Ivins, Sister Adams
and several other dear friends and relatives. Sis-
ter Hyde was baptized into the Church in April,
1831, in Kirtland, where her father resided. She
is one of the Johnson family,notable in the early
history of the Church, and is also the widow of
the late Apostle Orson Hyde. Sister Hyde has
ever been known for good works, her labors of
love, her sweet charity and wise counsel to the
daughters of Zion. May she live to see as many
happy returns of the day as her heart desires. Her
posterity already number over forty, among them
eight great grandchildren.
	THE Lecture on Education given before the
Teacher’s Institute in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, by Bishop O. F. Whitney, on
Friday evening, June 9th, was a finished and pol-
ished work of its kind. It is decidedly the best lec-
ture on that subject given by any one of the young
people born and reared in Utah. It contains
much food for thought, as well as excellent mate-
rial to put in practise in our every day life. The
speaker’s enunciation was clear and distinct,
his voice well modulated, which adds much to the
interest of the listener, and his manner was with-
al well adapted to his subject, and pleasing to the
audience. He summed up a perfect education as
a full and uniform development of the mental,
the physical, the moral and the spiritual capabili-
ties of the faculties and powers given to man
and woman. He pointed out, and illustrated
clearly, the mistake made, the educating of the
mind to the neglect of the body, and made a
quotation from Byron, which is beautifully adapt-
ed to the illustration. He reasoned well and
eloquently upon the strong point the infidels
claim to make that religion and science are in
conflict, and brought powerful testimony to prove
that science and true religion could not be an-
tagonistic. It is a very great pity that the lecture
was not given in the theatre, or some large build-
ing, and well advertised beforehand, so that very
many more might have had the opportunity of
hearing him. It has, however, been published
in full in the Deseret News, and it should be read
by all those interested in the education and culti-
vation of the young. Although hearing and
reading are very different in effect, upon the mind
and character. To hear a lecture delivered with
the power, force and earnestness of the speaker
makes a far deeper and more lasting impression
upon most minds than to read it. Mr. Whitney’s
lecture would certainly bear reading carefully
after hearing it delivered.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. LOCKWOOD IS COMING.

	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood is announced to lec-
ture in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday evening,
July 6th. Her subject will be "Political and So-
cial Life in Washington," a most prolific subject


and one in which the people of Utah are much
interested. She is well posted in regard to Wash-
ington society indoors and out, and her lecture
cannot fail to be of deep interest, for she knows
how to manage her subjects in an effective and in-
teresting manner. Mrs. Lockwood is as well
known, perhaps, as any lady of the present day in
the United States. She has been for some years
before the public as a lawyer and a leading woman
suffragist, and was the first woman admitted to
practice before the bar of the Supreme Court of
the United States. She is the leading editor of
the National Equal Rights, a paper published in
Washington and San Francisco (the organ of the
Equal Rights Party) the party that nominated
Mrs. Lockwood as their candidate for President
of the United States, during the last canvasing
for Presidential election.
	Mrs. Lockwood has several times spoken before
committees in Congress, and also before the con-
ventions of the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion in the City of Washington, against the bills
framed from time to time to deprive this people of
the rights and liberties to which all free-born men
and women are entitled. Mrs. Lockwood is brave,
frank and generous, and deserves all the praise
bestowed upon her. She is a very pleasing, agree-
able and interesting speaker. She is exceedingly
sharp and clear-sighted, and abounds with interest-
ing facts and pithy paragraphs. Her logic is
plain and conclusive, and she cares very little
about popular ideas or opinions, but is quite origi-
nal and independent in expressing her views.
	Those who attend her lecture will have a rare
treat, for there are few, if any, women in the
world who are better calculated to attract and in-
terest an audience than Mrs. Lockwood. The
lady's home is in Washington, and she has an ex-
tensive practice in her profession. She has been a
firm and consistent advocate for the rights of
the women of Utah, and is fairly well acquainted
with our question, having been associated con-
siderably with several of the people from Utah,
when they have been in the City of Washington.
We trust the people here will show their apprecia-
tion of Mrs. Lockwood's efforts in their behalf by
coming out en masse to hear her speak at
the theatre in this city, on Monday, July 6th, at
8 in the evening. Tickets, 75, 50 and 25 cts,
Mrs. Lockwood will speak in Ogden, Logan and
Provo, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday,
July 7th, 8th and 9th.


ITEMS FROM AN INTERESTING
	LETTER.

	The extracts published below are from a letter
written by a maiden lady, who resides upon the
Isle of Wight, to her cousin, an English gentle-
woman, one well known and respected among this
people, and very highly respected by all who have
the pleasure of her acquaintance, in this city.
The lady is one of high social standing, and es-
pecially interested in educational interests.—ED.]
	“I have not yet acknowledged
three enclosures of papers—one containing two
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and a magazine
containing the little book—all so beautifully and
firmly done up, that it seems quite an art to show
such expertness.
	“As to Miss Faithful,I have already heard of
her in a way that somewhat surprised me, though
of small import in comparison with matters of
real moment; but in the absence of any explana
tion of her conduct, as represented in the Novem-
ber number of the EXPONENT, one is at a loss to
understand the ungracious and ungrateful part of
receiving hospitality, kindnesses and courtesies
from strangers, all the more worthy of considera-
tion on that very account, and then making so 
base a return! Bearing fully in mind that she
might conscientiously differ on some points of


great importance, she might well have justified
the expectation, suggested in the article on the
subject, in the said number, that she would at
leest deal honestly and fairly in the matter, and I
should have thought, also, have warmly acknowl-
edged the kindness shown to herself.
	“Of course the passage, in which she speaks or
'the keen eye of the Prophet' as discerning his op-
portunities in reference to the 'fertile spot,'
showed great ignorance of what she is writing
about, as those who read the leading papers and
journals know that it is an accepted fact that the
change from a mere wilderness into a fertile spot
—indeed I think I have seen it called an earthly
paradise—was due tothe talent, energy, persever-
ance and industry of Brigham Young and his fol-
lowers, and as I have read the credit of it was
fully accorded to them, and that without any pre-
tence of sympathy with their religious views. I
am a dear  lover of fairness and straight-forward
dealing.”


VARIOUS OPINIONS REGARDING OUR
	FUTURE STATE.

	Many diverse opinions have been entertained
by different religious sects and nations as to if we
had an existence after we ceased to breathe, and
if so, what was the condition of the spirit after it
had left the body?
	All professors of religion, at the present time,
believe in an after life, but with the exception of a
few, often ridiculous notions, are at a loss to de-
termine how the spirit is employed in its new
home.
	The Spiritualists do not claim to be a religious
sect—that is, they do not recognize any priesthood,
but all of their teachings are unreasonable, when
compared with what we know of mind, and the
conclusions we would naturally arrive at concern-
ing the next world from the experience and knowl-
edge we have of this.
	The Essenees, the most strict of the Jewish sects,
believed that souls were immortal, and when re-
leased from their bodies rejoiced, and mounted
upwards, and that good souls had their home be-
yond the ocean, from which blew a gentle west
wind, where there was neither storms of rain or
snow, nor intense heat; "while they allotted to the
bad souls a dark and tempestuous den, full of never
ceasing punishments."
	The Greeks allotted the islands of the blessed
to their brave men, whom they called heroes, or
demi-gods, and to the souls of the wicked the re-
gion of the ungodly in Hades.
	Josephus also informs us that the Pharisees be-
lieved that "under the earth there would be re-
wards or punishments, accordingly as they had
lived virtuously or viciously in this life," and that
the souls of good only were removed into other
bodies, or would have power to revive and to live
again in this world, and that the souls of bad men
are subject to eternal punishment.
	The Sadducees did not believe in the immortality
of t he soul.
	The Romans judge that man, happy, who died
in battle, and believed, his spirit "was received by
the ether and joined to that company which are
placed among the stars, and that they became
good demons, and showed themselves to their
posterity afterwards."  While to those who died
a natural death, though they lived good lives,
there came a subterranean night to dissolve them
to nothing, and a deep oblivion to take away all
remembrance of them.
	Socrates, an Athenian philosopher, who died
399 years B.C., believed in the immortality of the
soul, and that the dead were conducted by demons
to a place where they were all judged; that the
very wicked were hurled into Tartarus, from where
they never departed; that others suffered accord-
ing to their sins, and that the innocent inhabited


a pure region, without their bodies, enjoying every
pleasure.
	Pythagoras advanced the doctrine of the me-
tempsychosis, or transmigration of souls:
	The Egyptians, to whom he was indebted for it,
thought that at death souls transmigrated into
other human bodies; that if they had been wicked
they were imprisoned for some centuries in the
bodies of unclean beasts until they had atoned for
their sins, when they were allotted a human form.
Another of their beliefs was, that the body would
rise after some years, while the soul, though
bound to it, was at liberty to leave the grave and
ruturn to it during the day time, in any form it
choose.
	The belief of Socrates on this point corresponds
very nearly with our own, and we can say with
him, "If what I say is true I gain everything, 
whilst I hazard very little, and if false, I lose
nothing; on the contrary, I am still a great 
gainer."
	ANNIE FELLOWS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]			
	CORRESPONDENCE.

	GORHAM, N. H., June 22nd, 1885.
DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	 We had a pleasant trip from Salt
Lake to New York—stopped at various points of
interest along the way, not forgeting one lovely
day at Niagara Falls.  From New York we took
coast steamer to Portland, stopping over one
day in Boston.
	Since our arrival we have been visiting most of
the time in  vicinity of Bethel, and other small
villages, situated on the Androscoggin, Sunday
and Bear Rivers in Maine.  The principal occu-
pation of the people in that vicinity is farming in
the summer and lumbering in the winter; but the
seasons are so short and the soil so unproductive,
that they have, to “go west” for bread.  They ex-
port lumber and import wheat, corn, etc.
	Maine is noted for her pine forests,and they
are lovely.  The sugar maple,from which the best
maple sugar and honey are made,grows abundant-
ly.  Spruce trees grow here in great numbers, and
some people make a business of collecting the
gum from these trees and sending it all over the
country. Poplar trees are ground into pulp, and
from this some of the finest paper is made. The
poplar is also used largely to make the spools up-
on which our cotton thread is wound, and large
quantities of the 'spoolsticks," as they are called,
are sent to Europe.  A large per cent of the
woodmen are Canadian French, that come across
the border, great numbers from Prince Edward’s
Island, and Nova Scotia.
	They cut down the trees in the winter, and then,
during the high water in spring and early summer,
they float them down the river to the mills and the
sea coast. It is quite a picturesque sight to see
these  "river drivers,” as they are called, especial-
ly at night when they have their bright camp fires
burning, and their white tents pitched by the
river.
	In campany with a party of friends I visited
one of the French camps in the woods, where
they had been choping.  It was Sunday, so they
were not at work, and the swarthy, lounging men,
the blackeyed, vivacious women, and the bare-
footed children reminded me of a gypsy camp.
Their houses were made in the most economical
manner, of a few boards and limbs, covered with
birch bark.  They say that in the winter the heat
from the inside melts the snow on the outside,
forming a coating of ice, something after the man-
ner of Esquimaux houses, and making them very
comfortable. 
	To get to the camp we had to cross the river on
logs floating in the water.  They assured us there
was no danger in crossing, but the logs danced up
and down in a delightfully promiscuous manner;

[Column 2]
but with the assistance of one of the "hands" we
got across with no more results than wet feet. A
number of children were paddling around on
floating logs with sticks, and quite frequently
some one would give the log a quick turn and
hal a dozen of them would go splashing into the
water. They were good swimmers; so it did no
harm, and they were greeted by a shout of laugh-
ter from their friends on the shore.  They treated
us kindly, and were quite sociable, as much so as
they could be under the circumstances.  The little
French I remembered they understood readily,
and some of them spoke pretty good English.
	I like this part of the country very much for
summer. I never get tired of walking through
the woods, where so many pretty wild flowers,
ferns and mosses can be found, and the grandest
trees, rocks and waterfalls.  The rivers and lakes
are a paradise for fishermen, and the trout caught
here makes as dainty a breakfast dish as one
could ask for.
	Maine is noted for her strict prohibition laws,
and although the law is sometimes evaded, still
drunkenness is not so prevalent here as in many
other places; but the profanity is something dread-
ful.  The most shockingly profane language is
used in common conversation, and even by little,
children. The people, as a rule, are thrifty, in-
dustrious and intelligent.  I have heard a great
deal said about the women of Utah having to per-
form manual labor, but never in my life have I
seen women do so much out door work as here.
It is a common sight to see them driving a horse
in the field, planting corn, etc., and I was told
that one young lady managed a mowing machine,
and cut all the hay on a farm, last year. I don’t
think there is  anything wrong about this, if they
choose to do it, and I do not consider that it de-
tracts anything from, their natural refinement,
but it does indicate that they possess a stronger
degree of muscular power than most young ladies
can boast of.  I read a letter, written bythe same
young lady I have mentioned; the penmanship
was very nice, and, so far as I was able to judge,
there were no mistakes in spelling, punctuation, or
grammar. 
	Though my letter is written in New Hamshire,
it is principally descriptive of Maine, but there is
not so very much difference, as Gorham is just
over the border.  It is a charming place though,
at the foot of the White Mountains, and I like it
as well as any place I have seen.
	We are enjoying our visit very much;
both mother's health and mine is very good, and we
have found many kind friends here. With kind
wish,	Yours,
	AUGUSTA WINTERS.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

SOUTH COTTONWOOD PRIMARY.

 The Annual meeting of the Primary Asso-
ciation of South Cottonwood wsa held May
23rd, in the ward meeting house, President
Elizabeth Davis presiding.
	A full attendance of children with many of
their parents, also Sister E. C. Clawson from
Salt Lake City, were present, on the occasion.
After singing prayer was offered by Brother
Wheeler, followed by singing "In our lovely
Deseret." Minutes and report of last annual
meeting read and approved, which gave credit
to the association. The programme was
promptly responded to, and encouraging and
interesting remarks were made by Sister E.C.
Clawson, Sister M. Rawlins, Brother Wheeler,
Brother Howe and President Elizabeth Davis.
All seemed to enjoy the meeting. The closing
prayer was offered by Bro. R. Howe.

SOUTH COTTONWOOD.

	The eighteenth annual meeting held at
South Cottonwood, May 18th, 1885, President

[Column 2]
Janette Y. Cahoon presiding. Singing. Pray-
er by Bishop Rawlius. Singing. Minutes of
last annual meeting and yearly report read
and approved.
	The President, on account of having moved
away from the ward and not being able to at-
tend her meetings, wished to resign her office.
Sisters M. I. Horne. E. S. Taylor and the
Bishop being present, it was motioned and
unanimously sustained that we accept her
resignation. A vote of thanks was rendered
for her long service and faithfulness in the dis-
charge of her duties, and her many good ex-
amples set forth for us to appreciate and follow
after. Therefore the Society was necessarily
reorganized. Counselor Mary Rawlins was
nominated Presient; Ann Wheeler and Phebe
Boyce; Couselors; Harriet A. Walker, Secre-
tary; Ann Boyce, Assistant Secretary; Ellen
Wheeler, Treasurer, in the place of Francis
Litson, deceased, who faithfully performed that
office from 1871 until her demise, Feb. 17th,
1885. All the officers were unanimously sus-
tained by the assembly.
	Our meeting was well attended, and we re-
ceived excellent instructions from those who
addressed us, the principal speakers being Sis-
ters Horne and Taylor. Our meeting was
adjourned until the 17th of next May. Dis-
missed with singing and prayer.
		HARRIET A. WALKER, SECRETARY. 

			JUAN STATE.

	The Relief Society held its quarterly confer-
ence at Levan in the new R. S. Hall, on the
13th inst. The reports, both written and ver-
bal, were very encouraging and spoke in high
praise of the vast amount of labor that had
been accomplished during the past quarter.
	The sisters seem to be awake to the sense of
their duty, and feel a deep interest in the wel-
fare of each other, and desire to obey the
principles of their holy religion, and serve
their God with one accord.
	Words of instruction and counsel were given
by the brethren and sisters who presided, which
was listened to with marked attention, and I
trust we will long remember the timely ad-
vice and counsel given.
	The sisters of Levan, with the help of the
brethren, have recently completed a very com-
fortable hall, which will be used for a meeting
house, for the present, as well as for the Relief
Society of that branch.
	The branches of the Society throughout the
Stake have been active, both in donating and
administering to the wants of the needy, and
comforting the sick. Their efforts to do good
to their fellow creatures have been crowned
with success, and the blessing of the Lord
has attended their labor of love.
	The Relief Society of Nephi celebrated the
anniversary of its organization on Tuesday,
the 23rd inst., and had a very enjoyable time,
listeing to addresses, songs and recitations,
given by the brethren and sisters.
		M. HAYTE, Stake Secretary.

		ST. GEORGE STAKE

The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of St.
George Stake held their quarterly conference
in the Lyceum, St. George, on Friday, the
12th of June ult. There was a good attend-
ance. The reports from the various settle-
ments were very encouraging. There is evi-
dently a great awakening among the Saints, a
closer union, and firmer faith in God our
Heavenly Father. The sisters are on hand
for the fulfillment of any duty, and desire to
promote and uphold the interests of the King-
dom of God; they have no fears as to the final
outcome of the persecutions by which the
faithful are at present being tried; nor do they
feel in the least disposed to retreat in their obe-
dience to any of the principles which have been
revealed from heaven.


[Column 1]

﻿	The young ladies are improving, and some
are gaining for themselves testimony of the
truth of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet
Joseph in these last days.
	The Primary Conference was held on the
13th. Quite a number of the parents, as well
as the children, were present, and were ad-
dressed by President John D. T. McAllister,as
well as the Stake President of the Primary As-
sociation, Sister Julia H. Ivins, and others.
The children seem to appreciate the instruct-
tion given to them in their Primary meetings,
and take a lively interest in preparing their
exercises and rendering them in a creditable
manner.
	May the Lord bless the youth of Zion, and
give those to whose care their training is en-
trusted the faithfulness and perseverance neces-
sary for their important duties.
		M. A. G. BAKER.

UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Utah County met in
conference May 29th, 1885, President Mary
John presiding, with Counselor Emily G. Cluff.
Present, of the Priesthood, Apostles John
Henry Smith and F. M. Lyman; President A.
O. Smoot, Counselor . D. John and others.
Visitors from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. B.
Wells and Lucy W. Kimball. 
	Conference opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of former conference read and ap-
proved. The resignation of Sister Rhoda
Lyman, Second Counselor to President Mary
John, was read and accepted; a vote of thanks
was also given Sister Lyman for her services.
The presidents of the various branches of the
Relief Society throughout the county were
called upon to report the respective organiza-
tions over which they presided. All that were
present responded in a very satisfactory man-
ner, reporting, as a general thing,faith and good
works, and a desire to live humble and prayer-
ful, and remain faithful to the end, that they
might gain salvation in the world to come.
	Sister E. B. Wells made many comforting
and encouraging remarks to the sisters, ex-
horting them to faithfulness in every duty, es-
pecially in the training of their children, etc.
thought we need not be cast down, we have
plenty of bright days to look forward to, etc.
	Apostle John H. Smith spoke to the sisters
for a short time, when, after singing and
prayer, conference adjourned till two p.m.
	Afternoon session. Conference met per ad-
journment. Opened with singing and prayer.
President A. O. Smoot said he would now pro-
ceed to fill the vacancy caused by the resigna-
tion of Sister Rhoda Lyman, and as Sister
John had chosen Sister Marilla M. Daniels to be
her Second Counselor, he would call a vote to
that effect. The vote was then called and car-
ried unanimously. President Smoot spoke in
terms of approbation of the sisters of the Re-
lief Society, of their willingness at all times
to respond to all calls made upon them by the
Priesthood, etc.
	Counselors Cluff and Daniels spoke a few
words; also Sisters E. B. Wells and L. W.
Kimball, followed by Apostle F. M. Lyman,
with very instructive remarks. Altogether
our conference was a feast to all, and the Spirit
of God was with us.
	President John made the closing remarks,
endorsing all that had been said, and praying
the Lord to bless each and every one.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by F. M. Lyman.
		C. DANIELS, Secretary.

RICHMOND, CACHE CO.
	The sixth annual meeting of the Richmond
Primary Association was held in the new
meeting house, June 1st, 1885, at two p.m.
There were present Sisters Presendia L. Kim-

[Column 2]

ball and Margaret P. Young of Salt Lake
City; Adaline Barber and Martha Williams of
Smithfield, besides several other visitors; the
ward authorities, Sister Myra Merrill, Prest. of
the Relief Society, her Counselors and a great
many of the parents of the children.
	After the opening exercises the minutes of
the fifth annual meeting were read and ap-
proved; also the statistical and financial reports
of the past year.
	The officers for the ensuing year were pre-
sented by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore as follows:
Mary Allsop, President; Mary Monson and
Maggie W. Thompson, Counselors; Satie J.
Petty, Secretary; Jane Hyer, Assistant Secre-
tary; Byrdie Harrison, Treasurer; Libbie A.
Merrill, Organist. All were unanimously sus-
tained. The programme, consisting of songs,
recitations, addresses, etc., was very well ren-
dered.
	Jane Hyer, in behalf of the members of the
Association, presented Sister Mary Allsop with
a beautiful dress pattern, with materials ready
for making up, accompanied by the following
address:
	To our beloved President, Sister Mary Allsop.
	We, the members of the Primary Associa-
tion, take pleasure in expressing our love and
good will toward you on this occasion, for the
great interest you have taken in us, and request
you to accept this small present as a token of
our love and esteem. May the blessings of
peace, comfort and health attend you, are the
wishes of the members of this Association.
	Sister Allsop was taken entirely by sur-
prise, and responded with a brief address of
thanks.
	Sisters Barber, Kimball, Young and Wil
liams, Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore and Counsel-
or Hyer made short addresses, encouraging
the children to be diligent in their labors in
the Association.
	After closing exercises meeting adjourned
for one year.
	Financial and Statistical report for the
year beginning June first, 1884, and ending
June 1st, 1885. Officers, 7; members, 205;
total, 212; average attendance, 110; meetings
held, 49; cash in treasury from previous year,
$1.25; cash received from members during the
year, $8.15; cash received from Primary enter-
tainment, $64; total, $73.40. Disbursements.
To new meeting house, $53.25; expended for
Primary entertainment, 50; emigration fund,
$3; martyr's fund, $2; paid for cards, $4.75; to
Stake Presidency, 50; Primary hymn books
and writing materials, $1.15; total expended,
$65.15; cash on hand, $8.25; property on hand,
$5.		MAGGIE W. THOMPSON,
			Secretary pro. tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	“Elizabeth Fry is to have a monument'.”

	Mrs. James Bennett edits a woman suffrage
column in a newspaper of Richmond, Ky.

	“Sixteen women graduated this year from the
medical department of' the Iowa State Univer-
sity."

	"Miss Blanche Blanchard has excuted and
exhibited a fine crayon picture of Hon C. A.
Burke."

"Mrs. Warner, a sister of the late W. Brandt
Storer, has on exhibition at Doll & Richards'
a finely executed plaster basrelief of George
Eliot."

	“A California lady has discovered a process
for preserving the juices of citrous fruits with
their natural flavor and without fermenta-
tion”


"The Empress Eugenie is to witness the
marriage of Beatrice and Prince Henry of
Battenberg, by special invitation of the
Queen."
	"It was the son and namesake of Mr. Lin-
coln's old antagonist, Stephen A. Douglas, who
said in his speech on Memorial Day: 'God
never made a better man than Abraham Lin-
coln.' "
	"Silk culture will be a feature of summer
work at the Woman's Prison at Sherborn,
Mass., where the superintendent, Mrs. Ellen
Johnson, will devote particular attention to
it."
	"The bill requiring temperance, physiology,
and hygiene to be taught in the public schools
was passed in the Massachusetts House of Re-
presentatives last Thursday by a vote of 181
to 1. The women who have worked so faith-
fully for that excellent measure deserve great
credit for this unexpected triumph."
	"The Woman's National Press Association
was organized at New Orleans, May 13th, 1885.
Mrs. E. I. Nicholson, editor and proprieter of
the New Orleans Picayune, was elected presi-
dent; Mrs. Marian McBride, of the Boston
Post, secretary. Vice-presidents recently
elected are Mrs. Florence Adkinson, of the
Indianapolis Sentinel, Mrs. L. M. Pavy. of the
St. Louis Republican, Miss Mary McMullen, of
London, of the Anglo-American Times.

	Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending May 19. as follows:
	Henrietta H. Dangerfield, Harrisburg, Va.,
Adjustable Reversible Foot-rest.
	Mary J. Holt, San Fancisco, Cal., Meat
and Provision Safe.
	Carrie F. Marsh, Detroit, Mich., Adjustable
Clothing Stiffener.
	Annie E. Sawyer, Charlestown, Mass., Skirt
Protector.


VERIFICATION OF AN ANCIENT
		PROVERB

	The following prophecy is said to have been delivered by
a British bard, in the time of William the Norman, and
preserved by some monkish annalist, viz[-]
	That no more than three monarchs in direct succession
should ever again reign over these kingdoms without some
violent interruption.
	Following is the succession of sovereigns:
	I. William the Norman, 2 William Rufus, 3 Henry the
First: interrupted by the usurpation of Stephen.
	I Henry the Second, 2 Edward the First, 3 Edward the
Second; interrupted by the abdication and murder of
Edward the Second.
	I. Edward the Third, 2 Richard the Second; interrupted
by the deposition of that monarch.
 	I. Henry the Fourth, 2 Henry the Fifth, 3 Henry the
Sixth; interrupted by the restoration of the House of
York.
I Edward the Fourth, 2 Edward the Fifth, 3 Richard the
Third; interrupted by the usurpation of Henry Richmond.
	I Henry the Seventh, 2 Henry the Eight, 3 Edward the
Sixth; interrupted by the election of Lady Jane Gray.
	I Mary, 2 Elizabeth; a foreign king (James of Scotland)
called in to assume the crown. 
	I James the First, 2 Charles the First; interrupted by the
deposition of that monarch, and the establishment of an-
other form of government, in the person of Oliver Crom-
well.
	I Charles the Second; 2 James the Second, interrupted
by the abdication of that king, and the election of a 
foreigner.
	I William the Third, 2 Anne; interrupted by the parlia-
mentary appointment of a foreigner.
	I George the First, 2 Goorge the Second, 3 George the
Third, interrupted by the unfortunate incapacity of that
sovereign, and a parliamentary appointment for exercising
the sovereign, in the person of the Prince Regent.
	I George the Fourth, 2 William the Fourth, 3 Victoria
the First, whom may God bless; but what is to be the next
interruption?—Selected
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Our Nellie, twin daughter of Andrew S. and M. E.
Gray died May 3rd, 1885, aged fourteen years, two months
and nineteen days.

			OUR NELLIE

	Spirit immortal, sweet spirit blest,
	Gone from all pain to the bright land of rest;
	Leaving a void that no other can fill,
	And a grief in our hearts that no power can still.

	Save He who did give and hath taken away
	Our Nellie to mansions of eternal day;
	And oh, may His Spirit heal up each sore heart,
	'Til we meet her again never, never to part.

	No purer e'er came from heaven to earth,
	To gladden the home and the family hearth;
	Silently weaving a mystical chain
	Of the chords of affection, for aye to remain.

	The Father hath gathered her back to His fold,
	And her dear face no more shall our sad eyes behold,
	'Til life's journey is ended, and we reach the shore
	Where sorrow and sadness and partings are o'er.

	Oh, choice the home circle gathering there,
	Unclouded, unstricken by anguish and care,
	And sweet will the meeting be there bye and bye,
	In a blessed reunion, where love cannot die,

	Of father and mother, Buddie and all,
	Who have gone at the voice of Jehovah's call,
	And now, oh! our darling, the call was for thee -
	Oh! help us, our Father, Thy purpose to see,

	And oh, speed the day when Thy kingdom shall come,
	When throughout our sad earth Thy will shall be done;
	When the grave shall give back our loved ones again,
	And Thine own great victory Christ shall proclaim.

										HOPE.


[Column 1]		
		OBITUARIES

	DIED, at Kanosh, Millard Co, Laura Moody Kimball,
daughter of William C. and Eliza Moody, and the wife of
Bishop A. A. Kimball, born in Salt Lake City, May 23rd
1859. Died April 6th, 1885.
	Her faith and works, reflected by a mild and tender 
disposition, endeared her to all who knew her, and her
memory warms the soul with celestial love, the order of
her birth and life.
			GEORGE CRANE.

DIED, at Mill Creek, June 7th, 1885, David, son of 
John F. and Elizabeth Snedaker, aged twelve years, eight
months and twenty-three days.
	The following resolutions were adopted at the Third 
District Primary of Mill Creek Ward.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst our dearly beloved young brother and associate,
be it
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Association, do
sympathize with Brother Snedaker and family in the loss of
their loved son and brother. David has the promise of a 
life beyond the grave, where sickness and death has no
power, where all is bright and beautiful.
	He was a faithful member of the Association, always
ready to respond to every call. We will miss him from 
our society, though we feel to say, "Thy will be done, O
Lord."
	Resolved, That we place this on our records, and pre-
sent a copy to the bereaved family, and one be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication.
		FRANCIS HANSON,
		ISABELL CARLISLE,
		KINDNESS WRIGHT,
			HADIE CARLISLE, Secretary

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	We, the members of the Annabella Ward, Sevier Co.,
Utah are with much regret, compelled to inform you of
the death of our beloved sister and friend, Ann Sophia
Rollins Beckstead, wife of Edward K. Roberts, who de-
parted this life May 13th, 1885. She was born March 5th,
1831, in the State of Maine. Was baptized in November, 
1842, at the early age of eleven years.
	She passed through many of the persecutions and heart-
rending scenes of the Church; was in the drivings from 
Nauvoo, and was compelled to cross the Mississippi River
in a canoe. She afterwards returned to Nauvoo, living

[Column 2]
with the mother of the Prophet, and witnessed the burning
of the Nauvoo Temple.
	Sister Rollins came to Council Bluffs in 1849, and was 
married to Sidney Beckstead in 1850. She crossed the 
plains in 1852, and passed through many hardships and
privations incident to the early settlement of Utah.
	In 1864 she lost her husband, by his accidently shooting
himself, when assisting to bring out the emigration. She 
was married to her present husband in March, 1869.
	During her last days all he children were present—five
daughters and the youngest child, a son, nearly fourteen
years of age. Her disease was pulmonary consumption.
The fondest attention was tendered her, during her dis-
tressing and fatal illness of five months duration.
	She was Second Counselor to the President of the
Annabella Ward Relief Society, and First Counseler to
the President of the Primary Association, and was dearly
beloved by all the members of both associations, for the
faithful discharge and performaece of every duty, by
which she won many tokens of their love and esteem.
	The people of the ward, and for miles around, attended
her funeral services, in token of esteem for the worthy and 
faithful worker in the places to which she had been called
so well. 
	Her last days were those of great suffering, and she
died firm to the cause of truth, and in the hope of a glori-
ous resurrection. Her last work was mostly with the
Primary, as her mind was so much upon their develop-
ment and success.
	The following Resolutions of Respect were unanimously
adopted by the Society:
	That, As in the Providence of God our most worthy
sister has been called to a higher and happier sphere, to 
perform a labor of love in heaven, as she had done here
upon earth, be it
	Resolved, That we, the sisters of Annabella Ward, do
greatly mourn the loss of our beloved sister, and sincerely
tender our heartfelt sympathy to the many relatives and
friends, who are called upon to lose mother, wife, sister
and friend, and with them we weep and acknowledge the
hand of an Almighty God, but are greatly consoled in
knowing that the Saintly sleeper enjoys the rest of the 
faithful, and the reunion with those she loved on Earth. We
also look forth to the time when the grave will give up its 
dead, and the earth again will be brtened with the
presence of the redeemed. And, be it
	Resolved, That a copy of this notice and resolutions be
forwarded to the EXPONENT for publication.
		EMMA STAFFORD, President.
		ELLEN GARDNER, Counselor.
		ANN THURSTON, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	He who can suppress a moment’s anger may
prevent a day of sorrow.—Ex.

	My thoughts are my own possession; my
acts may be limited to my country’s laws.— G.
Forster.

	God not only reigns, but rules. The uni-
verse is His kingdom; eternity is His term of
office.—H.H. Tucker.

	The fortunate circumstances of our lives
are generally found at last to be of our own
producing.—Goldsmith.

	Beyond all doing of good is the being good
for he that is good not only does good things,
but all that he does, is good.—Ex.

	God has so arranged the chronometry of our
spirits that there shall be thousands of silent
moments between the striking hours.—Ex.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
Book by Eliza R. Snow.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 	25c. per copy
MUSIC book for Primary Hymn Book;     40c. 	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1	          $1.00	"
	"	Vol.2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25 "
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with stell engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco. -1.50   "
[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112,	114,	116, 118 East Temple Street.
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains. Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' Prices by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road
For Sale at this Office. 
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1 $1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 	1.50	"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of  all Nations.
VOL. 14.								SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1885.


MY LUNAR LETTER.

Something I've lost, that threw o'er life a charm,
	Something that fed me with "convenient food,"
That kept the springs of life both fresh and warm,
	Something that helped to keep me rich and good.

A lunar letter - only just a letter!
	But such a one as few sit down to write,
That summon'd a response that made me better,
By teaching me with wisdom to indite

A long, sweet poem e'er was traced
	Upon those lunar sheets for me;
That time nor distance e'er defaced,
	But only made our souls more free.

We spoke too meaningly to speak amiss,
	We meant too well to dream we could offend;
Each heart was laden with its own sweet bliss.
	And as the thought arose was quickly penn'd.

And thus, though distance severed, we were near,
	Though sight, or touch, or hearing all were mute;
And thus we traveled on from year to year,
	Striking sweet chords upon the heart's own lute!

Oh, can it be? my heart cannot
	Receive as truth the bitter word -
Three decades saw me ne'er forgot -
	'Tis fit thro' silence it is heard,

Silence that speaks! alas! alas!
	'Tis vain to doubt the bitter truth
Life's sweet elixir ne'er can pass
	Again my lip, preserving youth.

Yes, all is silent now, the lute unstrung.
	The hand has dropt that struck the chords so long,
The song has ceased that was so sweetly sung,
	My lunar letters to the past belong.
							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


CHILDREN OF ZION.

Out of the cloud draped heights above
A watching spirit leaned,
Out from the throng of human souls
A heavy sheaf he gleaned,
For the harvest field of life was large,
And tares in the wheat were screened.

The angel saw where'er he looked,
On faces young or old.
A look that his faultless spirit knew,
And ever the same it told -
Love of pleasure and love of self
And love of the shining gold.

Over the lonely cry and prayer,
In homes made desolate,
Over the reckless song and oath
Behind the prison gate,
The song and laugh of the thoughtless world,
Heartless and deaf as fate.

For in the eastern skies arose
Dark clouds that nearer drew,
Afar the muffled thunder rolled,
Or lightnings flashed to view;
Yet still no warning ear they gave,
And folly faster flew.

While those who'd fed them "bread of life"
Tasted the prison fare,
These feasted on earth's choicest food,
Flaunting in garments rare;
And e'en fraternal greetings change
With such as placed them there.

O heedless children of the Saints!
How long for you must wait
The patience of deserted love


That guardeth long and late?
Return, the dark hour cometh on
And swings the Shepherd's gate.

O, hasten home, ye heedless lambs,
Listen the Shepherd's voice;
While thunders roll and foes may rave,
Safe in the fold rejoice;
And answer, guile, or threat, or wound,
"The kingdom is our choice."
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, July 2nd, 1885.


[For the EXPONENT-]

EXPECTANCY.

[ORIGINAL.]

Autumn past, bold winter deepens,
	Still I watch and wait in vain,
Yearning in my human weakness
	For his coming once again.
Spring came tardy, drear and gloomy,
	Bringing scarce one ray to cheer,
Now 'tis past in all its beauty,
	Yet I wait his voice to hear.

June, the first glad month of summer, 
	Waneth toward the last fair day—
Still I'm waiting for his coming.
	Though he wanders far away.
Messengers of earth have failed me,
	Still hope whispers, "Do not fear!"
As thine heart for love is yearning,
	So thy dear one's draweth near.

Came the meeting and the parting,
	Darknes lifted, light passed on,
Like unto the	swift appearing.
	Of a meteor at dawn.

As from fairest fields of Eden,	
	Floateth echoes of a song,
Like the rainbow arch at even,
	Bringing gladness after storm.

So we clasp love's priceless token,
	Mark the summer passing by;
Flowers bloom, and fruitage golden,
	Singing o'er "sweet bye and bye."

		L. M. HEWLINGS.
July, 1885.


[Column 1]

SILENT COMMUNINGS.

	My other self and I have had a long collo-
quy this evening upon many deep and impor-
tant subjects,upon which it is good to ruminate.
I believe the meditations were caused by
attending, a few days before, Doctor Ellis
Shipp's lecture.
	After we ceased our cogitation, for the
time being, I tried to recall some of the ideas,
and make them palpable for my own especial
benefit, and, perhaps, for some others who may
read them, so I promptly summoned my pri-
vate secretary (my pen), who is always within
reach of my hand, and I, dictating, we set to
work to make palpable some of these reflec-
tions. We entered upon them by observing
what a marvelous piece of mechanism the hu-
man organism presents to the eyes of the
astonished beholder! When we began to study
it, whether in the mental or corporeal, we
found both equally startling in their complex
machinery; we decided that here was visible the
very hand of God! the grand architect and
builder of this wonderful and mysterious struc-
ture; we felt that anatomy ought to be certain-

[Column 2]

ly one of the studies of the human mind, as it
is one of the essentials of self-knowledge.
	When attending a lecture of this kind, the
intelligent mind is shocked at its own igno-
rance, and at once determines to enter upon
an anatomical study, by attending lectures and
by reading and reflection, that we may, at any
rate, gain an insight of how "fearfully and
wonderfully we are made." Not only the
grand structure is to be studied, but we mnst
pass into the secret chambers of that mysteri-
ous organism, and there behold how intense
has been the almighty fashioner, that nothing
should be wanting for the happiness and com-
fort of this being, "only a little lower than the
angels"—there we shall behold the minute,but
most important germs of immortal life, which
we need to behold through a microscope in
their minuteness, yet all in a grand perfection,
complete, essential and practical. This is a
temple that all should enter, taking "their
shoes from off their feet," and the finger on the
lip, for it is "holy ground," for the observing,
thinking and devout mind realizes that God
himself is there! Blind indeed must be the
eye, and dark as Erebus the mind that cannot
discern Him in this mysterious form and struc-
ture. On entering into the presence of these
sublime mysteries, the ermine falls to the
ground, the purple robe is forgotten, the jewels
become dim, feeling we stand in nudity in
that awful presence; not humbled, in the com-
mon acceptation of the term, but simply
silenced by a grand and stupendous mystery!
Thought prompts the conviction that the Al-
mighty Maker has fashioned and wrought out
that sublime, that beautiful structure for an
immortal existence. Yes, immortality is im-
printed upon every part of it, because every
part is perfection!
	And what are the meditations that follow
this inspection? Do I not behold myself in
beholding this? Does it not hold up to the re-
viewer a mirror on which is written thyself? and
have we been ignorant of the perfection God
has given us? and do we treasure it as the
temple of the Holy One? do we never abuse it,
and wilfully or thoughtlessly injure, or perhaps
destroy it as a thing of naught? We look
abroad and see deformity in this once perfect
structure, caused, perhaps, by accident, perhaps
by wickedness in persons, or their progenitors.
Oh! how sad, how mournful, after beholding
perfection, to turn our eyes upon disease and
distortion! God, forgive all Thy pure eyes see
amiss in Thine erring creatures; enable them
to see wherein they err, and to increase in
knowledge, wisdom and understanding, that
above all things they may never desecrate the
perfect temple which Thou hast fashioned for
their immortal spirit to dwell in, while it so-
journs on Thine earth in this probation. And
well may we believe, and know that this per-
fect form, with its immaculate, its sublime, its
holy and mysterious apparatus cannot perish,
but within its most secret chambers lies the
hidden spark of the eternal fire, from off the
eternal altar of our God, which cannot be ex-
tinguished; though the corruptible must put
on incorruption, that eternal spark shall never
be dimmed, and shall again be ignited by the
breath of the Eternal and Omnipotent Archi-
tect, and shall have power to attract the parti-
cles pertaining to it, and will again stand forth
in its own grand identity and immortal being.
	The apostle of old said, "Know ye not that
your bodies are the temple of the Holy


Ghost?" Let us often recall these words, and
meditate fondly on their solemn meaning, es-
pecially when we look around and behold so
much to make the righteous mourn in the reck-
lessness, the thoughtlessness, the apathy—not
to speak of the willfully, the daringly wicked,
we feel to exclaim like one of old, "Who, then,
can be saved?" but the ever loving voice of the
Savior is heard in answer, "With men it is im-
possible, but with God all things are possible."
Truly may it be said, "God is Love." By
this blessed knowledge is our faith and hope
sustained and kept alive, and we arise renewed
and refreshed, and go on our way rejoicing.
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.

	Oh, Lord look down in mercy upon Thy
people who are afflicted and oppressed.
	How long, O Lord, wilt Thou suffer the
enemy to oppress Thy Saints. Destruction
hath come upon us like a whirlwind, in the
which Thou hast verified thy words, for Thou
didst forewarn us that it should come, and be-
hold, Thy word is fulfilled. The enemy came
upon us to drive us from the State of Missouri,
or exterminate us. But Thou, O Lord, did
stay their hands from killing us, though num-
bers were massacred; and Thou didst send forth
uncommon severe frost and snow, and by that
means save us, as a people, from being driven
out at the time appointed. But Thou didst
suffer the enemy, unlawfully, to take Thy ser-
vant, together with scores of others, who drove
us like dumb asses from our homes, in a cold,
dreary and melancholy time. We were con-
fined in a large, open room, where the cold
northern blast penetrated freely. Our fires
were small, and our allowance for wood and
food scanty. They gave us not even a
blanket to lie upon. Our beds were the cold
floor.
	There, Thou didst suffer the wicked to tyran-
ize over us; yea, the vilest of the vile did
guard us and treat us like dogs; yet we bore
our oppressions without murmuring; but our
souls were vexed both night and day with
their filthy conversation, for they constantly
blasphemed Thy holy name.
	How long. O Lord, wilt Thou suffer them to
blaspheme Thy name? Wilt Thou not soon
cut them off and consign them their portion
among hypocrites and unbelievers? In the
midst of our oppressions we did call upon Thy
name, O Lord, and Thou didst hear us, and
deliver us in some degree from the hand of
oppression, yet the enemy doth still threaten
us and would fain destroy us from the face of
the earth, but we are in Thy hands, O Lord,
and we know that the enemy can go no farther
in oppressing us than Thou dost permit. O
Lord, deliver Thou us from our oppressors.
Send Thy judgments and destroy those who are
not willing to let Thy Saints have a resting
place upon Thy footstool. Save Thy people,
O Lord, save Thy people from oppression and
bondage, yea, redeem Thy Zion; in Thine own
time redeem it.
	How long, O Lord, shall the enemy be per-
mitted to wear out Thy Saints? Hasten, O
hasten the day when the Ancient of Days shall
sit, and power be given Thy Saints to take and
possess the kingdom, even forever and ever.
Amen.	[Signed]
		E. PARTRIDGE.
	Far West, Caldwell Co., Mo., Jan., 1839.

	The brethren were prohibited, by the mob,
from going out, or coming into the city, but
many of the families living out had gathered

[Column 2]

in for protection, which caused provisions to be
very scarce, and much suffering ensued. The
mob had taken cattle, pigs, poultry, and what-
ever they wanted for their army to eat while
they were camped outside of the city, for all
know that even a mob must eat to live, if they
have to rob women and children of their last
morsel to do it. I know how it was in our
family—mother had to boil wheat to eke out
the little corn meal that we had; flour we had
none, and I remember seeing her make some
pumpkin pies, using corn meal for the crust; I
suppose she thought the corn dodger and
pumpkin sauce would taste better to the child-
ren if it was made in the shape of, and called
a pie. Some were worse off than we were, for
they had nothing but parched corn to eat.
Well, these were some of the mobocratic days
of my childhood.
	Father was released from prison and returned
to Far West, but in consequence of trouble
being brought upon him by apostate brethren,
he was compelled to again flee from his family
and home. Mother, soon after, put what she
could of her effects into a wagon and, with
her family, started for—well, anywhere out of
the State of Missouri.
	We were set down on the banks of the
Mississippi River, opposite Quincy, and were
again houseless and homeless, wandering in the
cold and bleak winter weather, with scanty
food and clothing. We pitched our tents and
waited for an opportunity to cross the river.
There were several families of Saints there
when we arrived, and they were continually
coming, so the bank of the river was dotted
with tents, now the only home of the again
exiled Saints. The wagons bringing families
were unloaded and taken back for more of the
Saints. When we crossed the river it was
partly on the ice and partly in the ferry boat.
The shore on the Quincy side of the river was
lined with the inhabitants of that place, to
witness the crossing over of the Mormon out-
casts—even the exiled Saints in midwinter.
Perhaps many thought they were a strange
people, or some kind of animals; not human
beings like themselves, subject to sorrow and
pain, cold and hunger and distress.
	In all our wanderings and being driven, we
have had to go out in the cold winter months,
and the suffering of the people must have been
very great. Children could not sense the awful
reality of the situation as older ones did, on
whose shoulders the burden rested. I some-
times look back upon those scenes with horror,
and wonder how the Saints did continue to en-
dure, time after time, such heartless cruelties.
But many could not endure, and so found an
early grave.
	And now, in 1885, nearly all of the Saints
that were living then have passed away, and
the few that are living now are those that were
children then, and they are becoming ad-
vanced in years, and it will not be very long
and there will be none left living upon the
earth to bear witness against the horrid deeds
of the Missouri mob. But the record of their
wicked deeds will remain and condemn them;
they will yet have to foot the bill with inter-
est.
	After crossing the river, mother rented a
room in Quincy, and here father met us. We
remained but a short time in Quincy. Father
moved his family to Pittsfield, Pike County,
Illinois, where we remained until a place for
the gathering of the Saints was appointed, when
we moved to Commerce, afterwards Nauvoo.
Father secured a city lot, and pitched his tent
under a large elm tree.
	The place was very unhealthy, and nearly
everybody there was sick; so much so that it
was hard to find well ones enough to care for
the sick, or bury the dead. As we had not
been there long enough to be affected by the
climate, father sent his girls, that were old

[Column 3]

enough, among the sick to help take care of
them. I was at Bro. Ebenezer Robinson's; he
and his wife were both sick. I staid as long
as I could keep up. I went home sick, took
my bed, from which I was unable to rise for
several weeks. My sister Harriet preceeded
me home, and was occupying one side of the
bed, very sick. We lay in this condition until
one day Brothers Young and Kimball called
at our tent; they were just starting on a mission,
and they administered to us, when the fever
broke, and we were much better, but we did
not get our strength.
	After a few weeks, being neither sick nor
yet well, we were taken down with the shaking
ague, which continued with us, off and on, for
one year or more. As the tent was an uncom-
fortable place for sick folks, father rented a
room, in what was called the "upper store
house," built at the steam-boat landing, before
the Saints began to settle there. Several fami-
lies occupied other portions of the house. Bro.
Hyrum Smith's family had a room adjoining
ours.
	Father had the chills and fever, but he felt
so anxious to build a house for his family,
which had to be done mostly by his own labor,
that he felt he could hardly spare time to be
sick, so he would take quinine and break up
the chills for a week or two, so that he could
labor on his house; and when the chills re-
turned he would take more quinine and go to
work again; but he saw that it would take a
long time at this rate to get into his house, so
he concluded to build a stable for his cows and
move his family into that; but moving was the
last thing he ever did in this life. He died on
the 27th of May, 1840, in his forty-seventh
year. My sister Harriet died a few days be-
fore, in the store house, on the 16th of May,
1840, in her nineteenth year.
	I will here mention the kindness of Brother
and Sister William Law to our family in our
distressed condition. While my father lay
sick, my sister Eliza and I, and some of the
other children were sick also, and it was very
unpleasant for so many sick to be in one small
room. Brother and Sister Law took Eliza
and I home with them and showed us every
kindness. I felt as though I had almost got to
heaven, after all the years of suffering that we
had endured, and now to be in such a good
house, and to have a comfortable bed to lay
upon, with nourishing and palatable food, I
almost thought that it was too pleasant to be
true.
	After father's death Brother Law took our
whole family home and administered to our
wants, and with such good and kind care we
began to improve in health, and when we had
sufficiently regained our health we went back
into our little hut once more.
	When I think of the Laws, and what good
men they seemed to be, and realize the course
they have taken, my soul sorrows and mourns
over their fate. Can it be possible that such
kindness as they extended to my father's family
will be all lost?


“The Woman’s Silk Culture Association now
operates under the patronage of the United
States Government, a trust and honor well be-
stowed.”
  “The New York Press Club gave a recep-
tion to the Hon. H. B. Stanton, husband of
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, last week, on the oc-
casion of his eightieth birthday.”
“ ‘Sweet Cicely is a new novel by ‘Josiah
Allen’s Wife’ (Marietta Holly). This is a con-
tinuation of the famous Josiah Allen’s Wife’s
series. A literary gentleman who has carefully
examined the story in manuscript, says: ‘In
my judgment this novel will prove the Uncle
Tom’s Cabin of the temperance reform.’ 12-
mo, cloth, two dollars.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AFFECTION.

Affection is like a flower,
	Sweet and precious,
Cultivated, rears its head.
	Gay and gracious.

Uncultivated, still it thrives
	With modest mien,
Happy, sun-kissed, and wet
	With heaven's rain.

The showy, pampered blossom
	Flings wide its power,
Lives, in passionate delight,
	It's sensuous hour.

But pluck the common weed,
	Unfold its story;
Inhale its perfumed breath—
	Behold its glory!

		HOMESPUN.


HOW THE GOSPEL CAME	TO ME.

When first the elders to us came,
	I did not want them here,
But very soon I learned from them
	Some precious truths most dear.
They left some little tracts with me,
	I read them with much care,
They taught to me salvation free,
	And banished all my fear.

I also read some other books--
	They all appeared so strange—
I could not find in them one fault.
	But much instruction gained.
I thought that I would ask a place
	Among the Saints of God,
Unworthiness would then arise
	And say, "You'd better not."

If ever I on earth did pray
	It surely was that time,
That God would lead me in the way.
	My duty then to find;
I  laid myself upon the bed,
	Poured out my soul in prayer,
And asked that God would bless me now
	With understanding clear.

I fell asleep, and dreamed a dream--
	I cannot tell it all--
But some one spoke, and said, "Turn thou
To the writings of St. Paul."
I was directed to the Hebrews,
	Epistle number two:
I read and trembled like a leaf,
	And knew not what to do.

It said to "give more earnest heed
	To things which we have heard;"
So now I thought I'd try to do
	Just what the Lord had said;
And surely now I must obey
	The Gospel of the Lord:
I knew that I had never been
"A doer of His word."

Soon after this I was baptized,
	By Elder O. A. Bates,
And ever more I hope to be
	A meek and humble Saint.
I thank the Lord for sending men
	To teach the truth to me.
They preach, "Repent of every sin,"
	And gain sweet liberty.

God sent His angels to the earth 
	With the Gospel's glorious plan,
Salvation to proclaim, once more,
	To lost, rebellious man.
The Lord has power on the earth
	To care for "Abra'm's seed,"
And every blessing give to them
	That in this life they need.

And now, dear friends, will you reject 
	The Gospel Jesus taught?
I hope you will obey His word--
	'Tis certain that you ought.

Come, then, arise and be baptized,
	And wash away your sins:
All honest souls I would advise
To obey their Lord and King.

But oh! I know I am too weak
	To give advice to you;
I know I need myself to ask
	More of His love to know.
Then pray for me, my brethren dear,
	And help meon the way;
Yea, ask the Lord to strengthen me,
	And guide me day by day.

And sisters, I would ask of you
	Remember me each day,
And ask the Lord to ever lead
	And teach me how to pray.
My Father who art in heaven,
	My every sin forgive,
Oh! hid me cease to wander,
	And let me with Thee live.
				M.J. MCNIECE
Mississippi.


[Column 1]

THE EDMUNDS BILL.

	To say that the Edmunds Bill has become a
law does not signify that it is a constitutional
law. He may just as well draft a bill making
it a penalty of fine and imprisonment to be-
lieve in the Bible, for every sane man knows
that the people of God practised polygamy,
and they were commanded so to do according
to the history of Abraham, and Jacob, who
served seven years for Rachel, the mother of
Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, which is
proof positive that God-sanctioned and blessed
this union of polygamous marriage. Has God
changed? Who has the authority to say He
has? Surely Mr. Edmunds has never read his
Bible, for it says He changeth not; and Jesus
says, "Judge not; with that judgment you
judge, you shall be judged." History repeats
itself; the same cause produces the same effect.
The imprisonment of such men as President
Cannon, and other righteous men with whom
we are well acquainted, and know them to be
the highest type of morality, walking in the
fear of God, with the greatest reverence for
the Constitution of our once free and happy
country, holding it as a sacred instrument,
given by inspiration, purchased with the noblest
blood of our veteran fathers. Can those who
signed the Declaration of Independence look
down and see that sacred, heaven-born boon
of freedom violated, trampled under foot, with-
out exerting all their influence, yes, all the
energies of their soul to save it, when it was
purchased at such a price? No; they may tear
it into shreds, they may burn it into ashes,
but they cannot destroy it. The same power
that organized and brought it forth can restore
the elements, bring them together again, raise
up mighty men filled with the spirit of the
patriots, whose prayers will ascend up to God
—give us liberty or death.
	Has this ceased to be a Republican Govern-
ment? Is this a land of liberty? Look with-
in the prison walls of Detroit, Salt Lake City
and Yuma, and you will find those there who
have never violated one single constitutional
law, without a shadow of evidence to convict
them. Shall we publish it to the world that
women, too, have been imprisoned for refusing
to answer illegal and insulting questions, such
as never were heard of before in any respect-
able court? They followed the example of our
Savior, when He was arraigned before the
judges, He opened not His mouth.
	If Mary, the mother of Christ, was here
they would imprison her, for 'tis nowhere re-
corded that she told who was the father of her
child, but there were many witnesses that said
He was the Son of God, although the angel of
the Lord appeared unto Joseph, unto whom
she was espoused, to justify her, and they fled
into the hilly country of Judea, yet we have
no account of her imprisonment.

[Column 2]

	In the days of our Savior, when the Apostle
Peter was imprisoned, we read that the disciples
prayed continually, and there came an angel
by night and delivered him out of prison; as
also in the case of Paul and Silas, the inter-
position of the Almighty delivered them. Up-
on reading the biographical sketch of Presi-
dent Cannon, and the defence of A. Milton
Musser, how forcibly we were reminded of the
noble and sublime defence made by that an-
cient and mighty apostle, when the governor
was led to exclaim, "Paul, thou almost per-
suadest me to be a Christian." What was the
answer? "Would to God thou wast, most
noble Festus, even such as I, excepting these
bonds." This great and mighty apostle, who
had persecuted the Saints, even unto death, had
seen a vision, heard a voice, and testified that
Jesus was the Christ. For this cause they
were persecuted, even unto death, in those days.
The same cause produces the same effect. Now,
to be a traitor to our country is considered
worthy of death; how much more so to be a
traitor to our God, who gives testimonies and
manifestations to make us witnesses of His
power and the plan of salvation.
	Now, we say unto our brethren who are in
prison, "Be of good cheer; the same spirit and
power that persecuted those ancient worthies, is
the power that is arraigned against you, and is
proof positive that you are engaged in the
same cause. There are ten thousand daily
prayers ascending up before the throne of God
for your deliverance, and well do we know
that God can deliver you, but suffers these
persecutions to fill up the cup of their ini-
quity."
	Some of the ladies are talking of getting up
a petition to the chief executive of the nation
to have the prisons built large enough for all
the religious world, as they all express a desire
to go to Abraham's bosom. We hope our
brethren who are in prison will appeal their
case to the courts on high, that the recording
angels may bear record of the proceedings and
sentence passed upon those innocent men that
God, angels and patriots may hear and know
and take action upon their case, that the cries
of the fatherless and the widow may come up
into the ears of the Lord against those that
have caused this sorrow ond oppression to come
upon the innocent. The religion of the Lord
Jesus is founded upon facts; it is no fable, and
this Government will have to account for the
persecution of the Latter-day Saints.
	The President of this Church is a living
witness to-day of the martyrdom of our Prophet
and Patriarch. He can testify that on the
night of the martyrdom the Prophet asked
him to sing these words:

	In prison I saw him next,—condemned
	To meet a traitor's doom at morn;
	The tide of lying tongues I stemmed,
	And honored him mid shame and scorn.

	My friendship's utmost zeal to try,
	He asked if I for him would die,
	The flesh was weaky, my blood ran chill,
	But the free spirit cried, "I will!"

	Then in a moment to my view,
	The stranger started from disguise,
	The tokens in his hands I knew,
	The Savior stood before mime eyes.

	He spake, and my poor name he named—
	"Of me thou hast hot been ashamed;
	These deeds shall thy memorial be;
	Fear not thou didst them unto me.

	President Taylor offered to die for the
Prophet. He stood between him and death in
fulfillment of the words he had sung but a few
hours before the massacre.
		W. EAST.


"It is the fashion to name children after
flowers in Virginia. That is probably because
they all start out as Virginia creepers."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
				WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.				Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.Terms:
on? copy .one year, $2.00; one copy six months, 81,00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time,$2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No.4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMANS EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,					JULY 15 1855.


[Column 1]

A FEW FACTS.

	Every few days some one or two or more of the
brethren, men of position in the Church, are ar-
rested and brought before the United States Com-
missioner and bound over to appear at the next 
term of court, and in many instances whole fami-
lies are called up and questioned, and also placed
under bonds to appear as witnesses when the case
shall come up for hearing. This has been going
on for several months, and, during that time, some
have been tried by the courts, and sentenced, and
are suffering the penalty of imprisonment for
keeping a law which Congress has made a crime,
but neither the motive or the spirit which actuated
the person, can by any means be interpreted as 
evil, nor can the actual facts be considered sinful,
except under the proscriptive law made specially
for this people. Angus M. Cannon, President of this
Stake of Zion,Elders R. Clawson, A. M. Musser, J.
Watson, P. P. Pratt and Evans have all been tried
and sent to the Penitentiary from Salt Lake, and
from Ogden, F. A. Brown, Moroni Brown and
Job Pingree; each of these for living with and ac-
knowledging the wives given them in the holy
covenant of celestial marriage, solomnized by
men holding the authority to perform the cere-
mony.
	These men have all been exemplary in their
lives, and naught can be brought,against them as
honest and true men, only this, that believing im-
plicitly that God had commanded them, they have
obeyed this higher law, a law too high for the
comprehension of men, who are seeking only the
pleasures and riches of this world, or that which is
temporal. Indeed it cannot be expected that they
will understand in their present condition.
	We were very forcibly struck by the ruling of 
Judge Powers in the case of Job Pingree. These
are the men who talk so much of free agency and
liberty, and it would seem he tried to coerce Bro.
Pingree into saying he would not do certain things,
or actually force him to say he would give up a 
wife, or wives, with whom he had made the most
solemn covenants before God and angels that a
man can make. One cannot help thinking it were
better to die in prison than deny a principle he
knows to be from God. And all good men and
women, everywhere, will respect a man more who
will stand by his colors in the hour of peril, even
though it cost him his life, than one who could be
pursuaded to renounce a principle because he was
brought to a severe test. Surely the religion of
the Latter-day Saints is as good as that for which
the Saints of God in other ages have suffered and
died, and let it not be said of any Latter-day Saint
that he has not the courage of his convictions.
	The statements made in the court in the First
District by F. A. Brown and Moroni Brown of
Ogden must make an impression upon every
houest man and woman who will read them. Such
powerful testimonies cannot fail to have a potent
effect upon the young and lead them to reflect up-
on the principle and its practice, and upon the sa-
cred obligations of those who have embraced it,

[Column 2]

the purity of their motives, and the high and holy
aspirations that have influenced them to practi-
cally incorporate it in their lives. This persecu-
tion will arouse earnest thoughts and feelings in
regard to Mormonism at home and abroad, and
will create investigation and research into facts
and figures, that will increase the faith and
strength and courage of those who have been
born "Mormons," but thought little about it, and
among the honest everywhere, will produce a feel-
ing of sympathy and interest for those who are
persecuted on account of religious belief and
practice, but who are honest, upright, thrifty, in-
dustrious, temperate and God-fearing.
	Not only have men been immured in prisons,but
women also have had to suffer penalties for not
answering questions that were inconsistent and
improper to say the least. Our readers will re-
member the cases of Annie Gallifant,Belle Harris
and baby and of Nellie White. The more recent
cases were Lydia Spencer, Elizabeth Ann Starkey
and Lucy Devereux and baby. These women have
put themselves on record as true Latter-day Saints,
who knew for themselves what was right, and
were determined to remain steadfast to principle,
even though sent up for contempt. In view of
these facts we cannot but repeat what we have
often said before that women are as willing to
suffer for a principle as men are, and that true
women will maintain their integrity to the Gospel
and its principles,in spite of persuasion, opposition
and threats.


THE FOURTH OF JULY. 
	In childhood’s days the very mention of "Inde-
pendence day" sent the blood tingling through
our veins, and no exertion was too much to cele-
brate the memorable occasion. Have we forgotten
these early impressions, and the patriotism we
drank in with the  very air we breathed? No, we
have not; they are with us still, and the same
love of liberty and consciousness of freedom to
worship God, that we inherited as our birthright,
still remains strong and dominant in our nature.
Do we love our country now as ever? Yes, we
do,but we mourn for the blots upon her escutcheon,
for the  laws enacted, and now being rigidly en-
forced against religious liberty. Alas for freedom
of conscience and free speech, when men are
mobbed and even sent to prison and placed under
bonds for practicing the pure principles of the
Gospel of  salvation, and when for the same re-
ligious practices taught and inculcated in the
holy Scriptures, and obeyed by holy men of old—
Abraham, Jacob and others of the ancients, who
were chosen men of God, and blest above others
of their time, in keeping this law of God; when
men for this, and this only, are arrested and com-
mitted to prison with the most wicked and vile,
their wives, honorably married, called before the
courts, held up to ridicule, and questioned as
though they were, the scum of the earth, this is
liberty indeed.
	In America, the land of the free and the home
of the brave, a land blest above all other lands,
with a Constitution greater and grander than any
upon the face of the earth, the Lord raised up in
this age of the world a prophet, and gave him a
message of life and salvation and a warning unto
all people. In the very beginning of his work
presecution begun; religious persecution; and his
life was sought for, his disciples and his followers
were persecuted and driven from state to state,and
from city to city. These people were American
citizens, sons and daughters of the soil, native
born, and many of them descended from illustri-
ous patriots, whose fathers and grandfathers had
fought for freedom and religious liberty, and
whose mothers and grandmothers, had suffered the
hardships incident to the perils of war, and sent
forth their husbands and sons to fight for freedom,
laying them upon the altar of liberty, though their
hearts were as tender as the heart of Abraham
when he went to offer up his son Isaac as a sacri-
fice. Such were the forefathers and foremothers
of the Prophets Joseph and  Brigham, Heber and
the leading men and women of this Church, who
have declared their mission to be from God, and
who have sought to do good to all people. What
were they accused of in those early days of perse-
cution, when they were driven from Ohio to Mis-
souri, and from county to county and city to city?
There was no such thing as plural marriage,
against which so much is said now; they were ac-
cused of having new revelation, of fanaticism, of
strange doctrine, of this and of that,of being abo-
litionists and of various things, and men were im-
prisoned and robbed, families were driven out
from their own rightful possessions, in the dead of
winter, and compelled to seek refuge and protec-
tion wherever they could, and finally, after having
established themselves once more peacefully, and
built up a beautiful city and magnificent temple in
the State of Illinois, and having added to their
numbers many from other lands, behold this hand-
ful of people were again molested, their Prophet
and Patriarch foully murdered and Apostles bare-
ly escaped with their lives. One of them, John
Taylor, now President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, wounded, the mob
thought, unto death, and saved as by a miracle,
bears the scars and the bullets  in his body to this
day, while under the guarantee of protection from
the state, and afterwards the whole body of the
people driven into the wilderness, without prepara-
tion, at the peril of their lives. 
	To recount the story of the wrongs and hard-
ships inflicted upon them would fill volumes of
history, but through it all this people maintained
their loyalty to the flag of their country, and
sought, by petitioning, and in various legitimate
ways, from time to time, to obtain some redress
for the wrongs inflicted upon them, but in vain.
The rulers of the nation acknowledged themselves
powerless to make any restitution to the "Mor-
mons." And so they were, so far as giving them
back their dead to life, slain for the Gospel’s sake,
and those who died by the wayside for want and
privation, brought about through this unhallowed
religious persecution, but in restoring rights of
property destroyed by mob violence, etc., they
need not have been powerless; but popular clamor
restrained those who were disposed to mete out
justice in any sense to the "Mormons."
	As proof positive of loyally to the dear old flag,
the “Mormons,” in their pilgrimage from Nauvoo
to the Rocky Mountain region, gave 500 of their
best picked men to the service of their country
and made no complaint. Women drove their own
teams, yoking and unyoking their cattle, taking
care of their children, and  performing the duties
and labor of both father and mother, sacrificing
themselves that the husband might show his allegi-
ance to his country in time of need, and honor the
laws of the land that had driven him and his dear
ones forth as an exile from his own inheritance.
	Arriving in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake,
Brigham Young and his noble and brave pioneers
planted the United States’ flag proudly and gladly
on this then desolate land, and dedicated it to God
and liberty in the name of the United States. Does
this savor of disrespect to the flag, or of disloyal-
ty to the government of "our common country?”
What have the rulers of this nation to say to our
oft-repeated wrongs? Only this: “We are tired
of hearing of the wrongs of Missouri and of
Nauvoo." No wonder, for there is a terrible re-
cord laid up against a future day of reckoning.
But why add to the calendar already well filled
with wrongs and outrages? Why seek to plunder
and persecute those who are only pursuing the
even tenor of their way and intruding upon the
rights of no man or woman?  Is there not room
and place for all, even for the "Mormons?” One
would think so, but this people have prospered in


the land, they have subdued the desert and made
it desirable, and unprincipled men, office seekers
and hangers on look with jealous eyes upon this fair
land, and desire it for an inheritance,and its pub-
lic offices to dispose of among themselves, and
they have resolved to take possession by whatever
means they can make available.
	Who can say that the flag has ever been dis-
honored by floating at half mast? Do not all
Americans know that it is an expression of public
grief? Did the Confederates float the flag at half
mast when they defied the United States and
sought to make war upon their country? No;
they unfurled a flag to the breeze that showed at
once the antagonism that ripened into a bloody
conflict. But those who are so anxiously seeking
for an excuse to justify the abuse of the "Mor-
mons" will wait long before they see the dear old
flag, of which all true American patriots are so
proud, and love with such intensity, dishonored.
Too many of the forefethers of this people bled
and died for that independence which the stars and
stripes are a significant of, and they know what
the feeling of genuine love of country is, and feel
it too deeply to make light of any of its symbols.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		MRS. LOCKWOOD'S VISIT.

	On Monday, the 6th inst., Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood arrived in Salt Lake City, and an informal
reception, hurriedly arranged, was given her at 4
p.m., at the residence of F. S. Richards Esq., in
this city. Mrs. Richards’ parlor was well filled,
and after the formal presentation of the ladies to
Mrs. Lockwood, by Mrs. Richards, Mrs. H. T.
King spoke a few words of welcome, and read the
following.
		IMPROMPTU.

	On meeting Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood.

Hail lady! friend of human kind.
We greet you, heart and soul and mind!
We lay bright tributes at your feet—
Your advent here we warmly greet.

Lady, accept our hand and heart,
Your name to us doth love impart;
Friend of the oppress'd—we deem you one—
Then welcome to our mountain home.

Mrs. Lula Greene Richards read,
		A WELCOME.
To Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, on her visiting Salt Lake
City. Written in behalf of the
Ladies of Utah.

Not to a princess born, yet stranger guest,
	Could we a welcome so sincere extend,
As unto thee, thou champion of the oppress'd—
	We warmly greet thee as a kind, brave friend.

We've given hospitality to some
	Who smiled upon us, and they turned away,
And, when they might speak well of us, are dumb,
	But evil things they find enough to say.

Yet we've no fear of this in greeting you,
	And wish your stay with us might be prolonged;
For you have said good things, when you but knew
	We were a people vilified and wronged.

We're grateful that you come to us and pause,
	That we may hear your voice and see your face,
And tell you, that when you have plead our cause,
	We've blest your name before the throne of grace.

This fact may seem to you but little weight,
	Your inner soul it may, or may not touch;
But to th' true "Mormon" woman it is great,
	No worldy compensation counts so mnch.

And though, to-day, it seems that “Mormon.” prayer
	And faith holds naught in this world's large events,
They gain us grace to bear and to forebear,
	And help us to proceed with calm, cool sense.

Our God is with us; and, dear lady, know
	That in our heart-felt welcoming to you,
Whatever honor we can hope to show, 
	Whatever good we may delight to do,

[Column 2]
This prayer is best—God bless and make you wise,
	The truth, the right, the worthy to defend;
Your great reward be that which never dies,
	Of all things good; thrice welcome, brave, kind friend.

	Mrs. Lockwood replied briefly to the cordial
welcome extended to her, and said she had simply
done her duty in speaking in defense of the women
of Utah. Brief speeches of welcome were made
by Mrs. Phebe W. Woodruff, Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee and Mrs. M. I. Horne; also by A.
Miner Esq., after which the conversation was
general, and an hour or two was spent very pleas-
antly.
	In the evening Mrs. Lockwood appeared on the
platform of the theatre, and was introduced to the
audience by the Hon. John T. Caine with a few
appropriate words, announcing, among other
notable events in her life, that she was the only
woman who had ever been nominated for Presi-
dent of the United States. The subject of her
lecture was, “Social and Political Life in Washing-
ton,” and it was given to an appreciative audience,
almost entirely “Mormon.” Without exception it
was the finest lecture we have ever heard given by
a woman. She seemed to have touched, in writing
it, every point pertaining to her subject, and made
each one effective.
	On Tuesday she went to Provo, where she
lectured in the evening. The following day to
Ogden, speaking there to a full house, and on
Thursday to Logan, returning to this city on Fri-
day, and spoke again in the theatre. Her lecture
was entitled, “Women of To-day,” which she
handled in a very able and interesting manner.
After the lecture was over, Hon. John T. Caine
announced that all who wished to be introduced to
Mrs. Lockwood might have that pleasure by com-
ing forward to the platform; quite a number of
ladies and gentlemen availed themselves of the
opportunity, and were presented to her by Mr.
Caine, who did the honors of the occasion very
handsomely. On Saturday morning Mrs. Lock-
wood left Salt Lake City for Evanston, where she
was expected to speak the same evening.
	We sincerely regret that Mrs. Lockwood had
not the time to remain here long enough to see and
hear a little more of the social and political life of
Utah and the “Mormons,” but she may come
again. As it is she has received favorable impres-
sions, and has been entertained by those who
would spare no pains to make her visit a pleasant
and agreeable one. In this city she was the
honored guest of F. S. Richards Esq., and of
Hon. John T. Caine. At Provo she was the guest
of Hon. W. N. Dusenberry, and in Ogden of
Apostle F. D. Richards, and in Logan she was
entertained at the home of Apostle Moses
Thatcher. 
	Of Mrs. Lockwood it may well be said she is a
woman among women; she is remarkable in many
respects. She is an indefatigable and untiring
worker for the elevation of her sex, and the good
of humanity.
	Mrs. Lockwood is famous enough to have drawn
a much larger audience, and certainly the young
ladies should have come out to see and hear her.
It is not only a mistake on their part, but they
have missed hearing a very distinguished woman
speak. Should Mrs. Lockwood ever visit Salt
Lake again, we hope she may have the house well
filled with young people. They are the ones who
ought certainly to have heard her.


A SIMILITUDE.

[THE PEBBLE AND THE ACORN.]

	In looking at the circumstances by which we
are surrounded to-day, I often think of the fable
of the pebble and the acorn, believing there is
quite a similarity in our case at the present time.
	You will remember the eloquent speech of the
pebble, saying, "I am a pebble, but whom art


thou, who comes rattling along from the rustling
bough?" None could tell of his birth, for he was
as old as the big round earth. The acorn, abashed
and mute at this rude rebuff, sank in the dust, and
in quietude lay thinking, of course, what her des-
tiny would be.
	In space of time a tiny sprout shoots forth, and
then a blade appeared, which formed a stem; it
grows to be a sturdy oak, which gives shelter to
the honorable pebble, whose age is so great, and a
kindred also of mother earth.
	After a space of time the tree blooms and bears
fruit; this also drops from its branches, and the
tree is again left bare. Still it thrives and grows
after meeting with such a loss, and shades the
honorable pebble. Time advances, and acorns
appear again; although the bloom is scattered to
the four winds, still the calyx holds the germ, so
that nothing is lost which is of worth to the fruit.
Viewing the subject in this light we see the hand
of an allwise Providence governing all His works,
and we readily understand the meaning of the
revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith,
saying, "The Lord is angry with none, excepting
those who will not acknowledge His hand in all
things."
	Thus we contemplate the designs and purposes
of an allwise Parent, whose decrees are all for the
good of His erring children, and we learn by ex-
perience how just and true He requires us to be.
	When in possession of His Holy Spirit we can
understand how the Lord blesses those who, like
the acorn, are humble and reflect and wait; they
will become acquainted with self and learn their
own abilities, and also learn that they have a des-
tiny to fill, after they learn this lesson perfectly,
which the pebble could never fill, although so hard
and inflexible; and again, the rock can fill a place
while the oak cannot. Why be proud? but remem-
ber that all are to fill their own sphere, as the
Bible teaches. There are vessels of honor and
vessels of dishonor. Let everything have its own
place and all will be useful in our Father's King-
dom.
	One thing is certain, great blessings await the
human family if they will listen and obey the voice
of the good Shepherd, who said to the Jews,
"How oft would I have gathered you together
as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings,
but ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto
you desolate."		M. E. K.
	July 1st, 1885.


SOME FACTS PLAINLY SET FORTH.

	Occasionally I meet with those who claim to be
Latter-day Saints that are in doubt about the
principle of plural marriage being the revealed
will of God to His Saints in this dispensation, yet
hey verily believe in celestial marriage, and ex-
pect to be exalted in the new and everlasting
covenant. How they can believe in the one and
not in the other is a mystery to me, when they are
both contained in the same revelation.
	Those who doubt the authenticity of plural
marriage, use for one of their strongest argnments
against it, a portion of the second chapter of
Jacob, in the Book of Mormon, claiming that he
spoke against it, and that if it was not right then
it s not right now. I have frequently and care-
fully read the passage referred to, and invariably
fail to find one word of condemnation of plural
marriage in it, when it is entered into according to
the law of the Lord.
	He was not reproving the Nephites for having
more wives than one, but because they "excused
themselves in committing whoredoms, because of
the things which were written concerning David,
and Solomon his son." Whoredom is a sin
which has been condemned from the beginning,
but nowhere do we find in holy writ anything
condemnatory of lawful plural marriage, but much
to show that it was in many instances justified by
the Lord.


Jacob also said, "Behold, David and Solomon
<truly. had="" many="" wives="" and="" concubines,="" which="" thing,="" was="" abominable="" before.me,saith="" the="" lord”="" this1="" -="" b="" is="" a-point="" held="" to="" mostlenaciously="" by="" opponent="" "="" (of="" plural="" marriageas="" an,argument="" that="" -cannot="" be-="" refuted,="" claiming="" having="" ,of="" more="" wiy.es="" that!="" one="" abomination="" lord.="" hp="" .does="" ’not="" say="" so,="" or="" carry="" thp="" idea="" jn="" lea$t.,tha="" -david="" splomon="" done="" anything="" wrong="" in="" than,="" .at="" same="" time,="" but="" it="" and.="" .concubine?="" they="" jo..thfr.lord="" .thing="" (so-many="" .concubines)="" would="" .also="" be="" abominable'="" any="" chaste="" virtuous="" person,="" --is="" recorded="" ,="" bible,="" .lord="" gaye="" -tadavid="" his="" wives,="" have="" given="" .him="" oif="" he-had="" asked="" him="" for="" them..="" this="" i-under-="" standthat="" lord="" justified="" david.in="" haying="" (wives="" than="" at="" of="" concubines="" .abominable="" him..="" i-="" jacob="" again="" says,="" ,“for="" there="" hall="" not="" .man="" among="" yon="" save="" :be="" one,="" wife,="" concul="" nbines="" shall="" nope,"="" ..the="" question="" .is-fre?="" quently="" asked,="" ‘‘why.,?did="" give,="" command="" nephites,="" if="" marriage="" right?"="" are="" reasons="" why,="" th?="" --following="" i="" think="" sufficient-="">truly had many wives and concubines, which thing
was abominable before me, saith the Lord." This
is a point held to most tenaciously by the opponent
of plural marriage as an argument that cannot be
refuted, claiming that the having of more wives
than one is the abomination to the Lord. He does
not say so, or carry the idea in the least tha
David and Solomon had done anything wrong in
having more wives than one at the same time,
but it was the many wives and concubines they
had that was abominable to the Lord, which thing
(so many wives and concubines) would also be
abominable to any chaste and virtuous person. It
is recorded in the Bible that the Lord gave to
David his wives, and would have given him more
if He had asked Him for them. By this I under-
stand that the Lord justified David in having more
wives than one at the same time, but it was the
having of many wives and concubines that was
abominable to Him.
	Jacob again says, "For there shall not any man
among you have save it be one wife, and concu-
bines he shall have none." The question is fre-
quently asked, "Why did the Lord give this
command to the Nephites, if plural marriage is
right?" There are many reasons why, but the
following one I think is sufficient:
	In the revelation on celestial marriage, given
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, it is recorded
that "there is never but one on the earth at a time
on whom this power and the keys of the Priest-
hood are conferred." We have no record of
Lehi, or any one of the Nephites ever holding the
keys of this power, or ever having the right or the
authority to seal wives to any man. If they had
not this right then it was wrong for any man among
them to have more wives than one at the same
time.
	Jacob still further says, "For if I will, saith the
Lord of Hosts, raise up seed to me, I will com-
mand my people." This presupposes that the
Lord would, at some future time, command His
people to enter into plural marriage; virtually fore-
telling that the Lord would yet command His peo-
ple to enter into it for the purpose of increasing
the posterity of the Saints upon the earth.
	We are now living in the time when the Lord
has restored that order of marriage held sacred
among His ancient people, and the Saints have
been commanded to enter into the order of patri-
archal marriage, or "be damned, sayeth the
Lord."
	Paul says, "The Gospel is the power of God
unto salvation to all those who believe," and also
that "man is not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord." If it is so
that man and woman must necessarily be together
in the Lord, then the Gospel plan of salvation
would be incomplete without the principle of plural
marriage being practiced in the Church, whereby
every woman might be joined with man in holy
matrimony for time and all eternity, that they may
eternally increase in an exaltation in the celestial
kingdom of God. There has been, and is now, a
numerical preponderance of women over the men
in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and probably will be, with an increase, until, as
Isaiah has said, seven women shall take hold of
one man to be called by his name to take away
their reproach.
	Much might be written on this subject, but a
"word to the wise is sufficient," and all will under-
stand, when they fully comprehend the plan of
salvation, that plural marriage is necessary to
make that plan complete, so that all who will may
attain to that glory and exaltation promised to the
faithful.		S. F. A.
	July 9, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

BEWARE OF PRIDE!

	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven. Blessed are the meek, for

[Column 2]

they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are the pure
in heart, for they shall see god."—MATTHEW, 5th
chapter.
	Good evening, my dear EXPONENT! how glad I
am to see you, for I was wishing I had some one
to talk with, for I am feeling quite sad. I have
been reading about the terrible earthquake in
Madrid, the cholera in Asia, that awful water-
sprout in Texas, that destroyed so much life and
property, and about the yellow fever making its
appearance again at New Orleans, and of the In-
dians slaughtering the inhabitants of New Mexico
and, oh, dear! some few more of our brethren
have been arrested. Yet it is not all this alone
that brings the sigh, but some of the things we
saw at conference, which was over a few days ago.
There were some of our mothers in Israel dressed
in a very unbecoming manner—flowers, ribbons,
fringes and bugles, and I thought, oh! my soul,
what a pattern for the young, fair daughters of
Zion. "Mothers filled with so much pride and lofti-
ness, do you, or can you expect anything else
but that your daughters will go astray, seeking
after the vanities of the world? Oh, mothers! are
you followers of the meek and lowly Savior?
Then why so much pride! Have you read the
Scriptures, where it tells how the daughters of
Zion shall bow their heads with shame, and mourn
because of their pride?"
	Ah! here comes an old lady; she has grown old
and grey in the Church, suffered persecutions and
hardships, and should be respected and loved for
her faithfulness, left a widow early, with a family
of small children, which she has toiled day and
night with her own hands to raise respectably.
She has come to conference to renew her spiritual
strength, to associate with her brethren and sisters,
and hear the good instruction that is given to all.
She is neatly, though plainly dressed—as well as
her circumstances would allow—yet she does not
wear a bonnet covered with ribbons, flowers and
feathers; no, she has come a long distance to hear
the word of God from His servants, and her head
is covered in a neat sun bonnet.
	But what has she done that she should be
slighted by those proud ones? She has taken
them into her house and fed them, and given them
beds to sleep in, in times past. Then why not re-
turn such kindness? "Oh! she is not well dressed
and wears a sun bonnet." Indeed, but that is
awful. Well, would it take anything away from
your greatness to be kind to her, and make her
feel that she was welcome? When you receive
your crown as one of the queens in the celestial
city, do you think the shock would be too much
for you if you should see her there with her plain
clothes and sun bonnet.
	Out upon such pride; I have no patience with it.
Go humble yourselves, and repent of your sins in
sack cloth and ashes, ye Latterday Saints, or you
will never be among that choice number. Put by
your haughtiness, be meek and prayerful, kind
and loving to each other, for is not ours one com-
mon cause? Are not our fathers, husbands and
brothers in exile? Yes; and even some of them
groan in prison. Are not many calls made upon
our brethren and sisters for aid and assistance?
Then why should we, who are so small in the eyes
of the Lord, scorn our poor, but equally worthy
sisters?
	It would be more pleasing in the sight of the
Lord if we would all dress more plain, and not
run after the fashions of Babylon, lest we partake
of her sins and receive of her plagues. It would
be quite as becoming to Latter-day Saints, in this
day of trouble, to be more plain, and not spend
so much for foolishness, when with that means we
might do more good.
	A great deal is said about the word of wisdom.
There is no wisdom in following fashion and all
the nonsense that it brings. It will not exalt us
one whit in the estimation of good people. No,
but by our pride we lower ourselves. We also

[Column 3]

hurt the feelings of our poor brethren and sisters,
and this will be held against us.
	Now, my dear EXPONENT, will you be so kind
as to tell the sisters that there are many, very
many poor sisters who would gladly attend con-
ference if they could afford a better dress, so that
they would not be scorned by their well dressed
sisters. Oh! try and get rid of this unholy feeling,
my dear sisters, so that at the next conference the
poor can say they enjoyed themselves, and were
treated as they should be, on an equality, with
love, and respected as Latter-day Saints.
		K.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Father arose and, said:" 'Bro. Kimball
has mentioned the idea of writing things down,
in order that you may ask questions. It is a
good idea.	*	*	I love intelli-
gence, and it is a perfect torment for me to
sit down and talk to some people. Many a
time I have sat down and talked with folks
upon trivial matters, and have actually got
some new ideas by asking a little question.
Some, from diffidence, are backward in asking
intelligence; but no gentleman would laugh or
sneer at another when a question was asked,
even if it was an ignorant one.'
	"Brother Kimball asked the brethren and
sisters if they had enjoyed this party as well
as the one at the Council House. They all
answered Yes.' He observed that he would
like to have his children learn to calm them-
selves, and he hoped that they would mind and
keep the watch wound up, and when they lost
time refer to the chronometer.
	"A hymn being sung the meeting was dis-
missed with a benediction by Bishop Whitney.
Bro. Kimball dismissed them also with his
blessing."
	One thing, which I have neglected to men-
tion, was the kind and brotherly feeling mani-
fested by the brethren towards Bishop Miller,
whenever he came down on his way to Missouri,
where he went to trade for provisions. It
seems that they prevailed on him to return to
Winter Quarters, and at a meeting held at
the Council House, January 26th, he being
present, "it was moved by President Young,
and stated by President Kimball, that inas-
much as Bishop Miller, being here, is about to
return to this place with his family, we build
him a house. Carried unanimously." Wm.
Pitt moved that John Kay also return.
Seconded and carried.
	Monday. February 15th, my husband men-
tions the Bishop's arrival from Punkaw, bring-
ing with him part of his family, his house
being nearly finished.
	A party was given on the 16th by President
Brigham Young to his adopted children.
Horace says, "I went, by invitation, as a musi-
cian, with some others of the band; had a first
rate dinner, and spent the time very agreeably.
Toward evening a couple of brethren from the
army arrived, viz., Bros. Thippetts and Woolsey.
They had journeyed thirty days without eating
anything, except wild game, on the road. 'They
were invited in to supper by Bro. Brigham.
They had been robbed on the road by the In-
dians, and divested of most of their apparel.
They said that most of the brethren were lo-
cated about three hundred miles from Santa
Fe, and this side of the mountains, where they
intend to remain this winter. A number of
them had died by various diseases—the ague
and fever, etc. The names of those who had
died were read over by Brigham, and among
them was the name of Joseph Richards, the
son of Phinehas Richards."


[Column 1]
	On the 18th mention is made of Bro. Luke
Johnson and his sister (Marinda Hyde) being
with us. The heaviest snow storm of the sea-
son visited us that night, which prevented
them from returning home—on the other side
of the river—the snow having completely
blocked up all the roads. On the Sunday fol-
fowing another family meeting was held at
father's, who was still quite unwell. Brother
Brown and Bishop Whitney preached.
	"Tuesday, the 23rd. The bishops, with the
poor, and the soldiers' wives of the several
wards, met at the Council House to enjoy
themselves. I attended, with some others of
the band."
	"Wednesday, the 24th. Snowed consider-
ably to-day, as well as yesterday. My wife's
health is improving slowly. She has lately
been afflicted with canker. She has now been
sick five weeks last Sunday. I am also troubled
considerably with the canker in my mouth.
The company of pioneers will probably start
for the mountains in about four weeks, in or-
der to get to our place of location in time to
put in a spring crop."
	On the 1st day of March he wrote: "Beauti-
ful weather. Ellis Eames, a player on the
violin, came up from the Point—a number of
the band, including him and myself, went
around in a sleigh this evening (Porter driv-
ing) and serenaded several places in the town.
Bro. Kimball was along with us. We stopped
at Bishop Hunter's and played a tune, then, by
invitation of Bro. Kimball, went to his house,
where we spent some time in dancing.
	"Tuesday, the 2nd.	*	*	This
evening Bro. Kay arrived from the Punkaw
nation, having left his family and some others
fifty miles from here, not being able to get
here, in consequence of their feed for cattle
having failed."
	"Wednesday,	*	*	a number of
the band went around and raised a contribu-
tion for Bro. Kay, in corn and meal, etc.—We
got nine bushels of the former. Played with
some others of the band for the quorum of
High Priests, whose parties commenced yester-
day."
	The next day he says, "This morning Bro.
Kay and James Clayton started with their pro-
visions to go back; also this morning Ellis
Eames, J. Redding, Merit Rockwell, two
ladies and myself went down to the point in
Bro: Kimball's carriage, and attended a party.
I took my flute to assist Bro. Eames in playing.
Had a very good time, good supper, etc."
	On the evening of Saturday, the 5th, Bro.
John Kay arrived with his family.
	There was a meeting of father's company of
pioneers, held at the Council House, Monday
morning, it being the intention for some to
start soon, though the majority were not to
start under a week or so. Here Horace and
his brother Orson, concluded to go with the
pioneers in place of their father, and assist in
putting in crops, till the ground, etc., that the
families, when they came on, might have some-
thing to move to. All were busy now prepar-
ing, and laying in their supplies for the jour-
ney.
	Sunday, the 14th, my husband wrote: "By
father's request I went and copied an import-
ant document, which took me the greater part
of the day and into the night."
	The revelation on plural marriage was the
"document" referred to, the Bishop having the
only one in existence, which he afterwards
gave to President Young, retaining a copy.
	He mentions the black scurvy, which had
begun its work, and already many cases
had proved fatal. It would commence with dark
streaks and pains in the ends of the fingers
or toes, which increased and spread till the
limbs were inflamed and became almost black,
causing such intense agony that death would
be welcomed as a release from their suffering.

[Column 2]
It was caused by the want of vegetable food
and living so long on salt meat without it.
	It was now a year or more since the majority
had left their homes and civilizatian behind,
and our trail was marked by the lonely
mounds of the dead, who had made a happy
escape from the sufferings and want to which
we were so many years subjected, through the
wickedness and injustice of man.


WOMAN'S EXPNENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

ONEIDA	STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Oneida Stake was or-
ganized in October, 1884, Apostles F. M. Ly-
man and John W. Taylor being present and
assisting the Presidency of the Stake in the
organization. Mrs. Elizabeth Fox of Franklin
was elected President; Mrs. Ann Hales of
Gentile Valley, First Counselor; Mrs. Mary
Hawkes of Franklin, Second Counselor; Mrs.
Annie Hatch, Secretary, and Mrs. Josephine
Mayberry, Assistant Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Oxford, Oneida Stake
was reorganized on the 28th of June, 1885,
Mrs. Polly Boyes, the former president, having
resigned her position. Mrs. Mary Jane Hend-
ricks was chosen President, with Mrs. Lewis
and Mrs. Crocker as Counselors.

TAYLOR, ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our annual review of the Primary
Association May 21st. 1885. There were pres-
ent upwards of seventy children, and quite a
number of their parents. We had a very en-
joyable time. Meeting opened with singing
by the Primary, under the direction of Bro.
Harrison Pearce, who is ever willing to assist
us. Prayer by Bro. Wm. Solomon. Singing
by the Primary. Opening speech by President
Magdalena Pearce. The programme consisted
of songs, recitations, select reading, dia-
logues and Bible Questions and Answers. We
must especially mention a recitation by four
little boys—"Give the little boys a chance,"
and also an exercise song by six very little
girls, and a song, "Look on the bright side," by
Misses Maria and Rebecca Standford and
Mable Pearce.
	Then our Stake President, Elizabeth Haw-
kins, read to the parents of the children an
eloquent address made by our beloved sister,
Eliza R. S. Smith, at Weber Stake Conference,
March 12th, 1885, after which Brother Wm.
Solomon and Merrill Willis made some en-
couraging remarks to all. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Joseph McCleve.
	In the afternoon we had a dancing party for
the children, and they enjoyed themselves, and
we feel to bless all the children of Zion, and
all who are engaged in building up our Father's
kingdom.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPONENT
and all those who are trying to help forward
the great work, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MAGDALENA PEARCE, Prest.,
			ANN DATTON, Cor. Secretary.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, June 26th, commencing at 10
a.m., Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. After sing-
ing and prayer by Coun. E. S. Taylor and sing-
ing, the minutes of the March Conference were
read and accepted and roll of Presidents called.
Twenty-nine war is were represented, all of
them as being in good working order, the
general feeling being to improve in wisdom
and knowledge, and to increase in faith and
works of charity and usefulness.

[Column 2]

	Prest. Horne made a very able address to
the officers, giving specific and timely instruc-
tion, and exhorting all to prepare for the great
events that are about to transpire. Conference
then adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. B. W.Smith. 
	Afternoon session:	Singing. Prayer by
Secretary E. Howard. Singing. Remarks 
were made by Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, Prest.
of the Relief Society in St. George Stake.
She spoke upon the spiritual progress of the
daughters of Zion who are in the path of duty
and who testify of the goodness of God; said
such were bound together by the Holy Spirit.
She was followed by her Counselor, Mrs. Annie
Ivins, who referred to the labors of the sisters
of St. George, and the blessings that attended
their labors, and the peace, quiet and union
that existed there.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor, Secretary E. Howard,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary of Central
Board of Relief Society, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Dr. E. S. Barney, each
made a brief, but interesting and edifying ad-
dress, and Prest. Horne made closing remarks,
reviewing what had been spoken of by the sis-
ters, and exhorting all to diligence and to
practice economy. Among the subjects treated
upon by the sisters was the storing of grain
and donating to the Deseret Hospital.
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing and benediction.

SALT LAKE PRIMARY.
	The Quarterly Conference of the P. A. of
Salt Lake Stake was held in the Assembly
Hall, June 27th, at 10 a.m., Mrs. Ellen C.
Clawson presiding. Opened by singing, "Did
you think to pray," etc. Prayer by Sister
Smith. Singing, "In the chambeas of the
mountains." Minutes of previous conference
read and accepted. Verbal reports were given
from several wards, and two little girls from
the 16th Ward sang, "What is fairer than the
rose." Some other wards reported and Miss
Dora Boreman of the 19th Ward recited a 
piece entitled "The Martyrs." After some
more reports, Miss Irene Daynes sang a song
entitled "Grandpa's Darling," accompanied on
the organ by Master Josie Daynes, who after-
wards gave an organ solo. The 17th Ward
was then reported, and a very little girl from
the 7th Ward gave a recitation. Three other
wards reported, and a recitation was given by a
boy from the 10th Ward. Other wards were
reported, and a recitation given by a little girl
from South Cottonwood Ward, and after some
other wards had reported, Fanny Day of the
12th Ward sang a song. Mrs. Aurelia S.
Rogers, President of the Primary of Davis
Stake, made a few very interesting remarks to
the children.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "The Lord's Prayer," by the children
Prayer by Coun. Lydia Ann Wells.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Elizabeth Eaglesford is the first
woman admitted to the bar in Indiana."

	London, July 13.—A mass meeting of
women was held at Princess Hall this afternoon
to consider ways and means to protect young
girls from the horrible pitfalls of London, as
revealed by the Pall Malt Gazette. Mrs. Booth
and other ladies made eloquent addresses, and
the meeting resolved that the laws on the sub-
ject should forthwith be made more efficient:
denounced the state regulation of vice demand-
ed a total repeal of the contagious diseases act,
and that the age of consent be raised from 13
to 18. The meeting also voted to send a re-
cord of its proceedings to the House of Com-
mons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Gray Memorial at Cambridge.—A bust of
the poet Gray was recently unveiled in the
hall of Pembroke college, Cambridge, by Lord
Houghton, in the presence of a distinguished
company, and the occasion was rendered more
noteworthy from the fact that the Hon. James
Russell Lowell, the late American Minister,
made his farewell public speech prior to leav-
ing England. Amongst the ladies in the
gallery was Miss Mary Anderson. The bust
of Gray is in white marble, and is mounted
upon a pedestal of Pavonezza marble, on the
front of which is a beautiful relief represent-
ing the first stanza of “The Elegy.” Mr.
Lowell said he came to speak as the represen-
tative of certain of his countrymen and coun-
trywomen who liked to renew that affirmation
of the unity of the British race by giving
something better than words in memory of the
poet they loved. Gray had been called com-
mon-place, but that, he thought, was a compli-
ment. He was inclined to judge poets by their
lasting power. Gray not only pleased his
youth and age, but other people's youth and
age. He touched our human nature at a great
many periods and a great many levels. There
was commonplace in the “Elegy,” and also in
some phrases which had been in use for 3,000
years. As long as there were young men, as long
as there were middle-aged men, Gray would hold
his place, in the human mind. They would,
perhaps, before he sat down allow him to say
something about himself. This would be the
last occasion on which he would have the op-
portunity of addressing Englishmen in public.
He wished to express his most heartfelt grati-
tude for the kindness which had surrounded
him in his official and private life, and had
made it delightful. While he had come there
as a distant cousin they were sending him away
as something like a brother.


Patents have been issued as follows to women
inventors for the week ending June 16th,
1885:
	Eliza Bloom, New York, N. Y., Seal-lock.
	Camille D. Cuper, Paris, France, Skirt.
	Emma L. Maesel, New York, N. Y., Bas-
ket.
	Lilly F. Roberts, Kentucky Town, Texas,
Pocket.
	Lydia A. Rowe, Springfield, O., Pie and
Cake Rack.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is a sweet reward to merit an honorable remembrance
among the Saints of God, and it is with sadness and regret
that we record the demise of another beloved sister, faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, devoted mother and true help-meet to
man.
	Harriet Davis Hughes, wife of Francis D. Hughes, was
born in Glamorganshire, South Wales, January 24th, 1839,
and after having "fought the good fight and kept the
faith," passed peacefully to her rest, in the Eleventh Ward
Salt Lake City, June 1st, 1885, where she was a teacher in
the Relief Society, and a member of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Sister Hughes embraced the Gospel in her youth, and
was ever a sincere defender of its principles, in private and
public, especially that of celestial marriage, to the truth and
divinity of which she bore a powerful testimony on her
death bed. She always expressed great pride and satisfac-
tion in having accepted in practice that order of marriage,
and the effect of her influence upon her daughters is that
they also honor that holy principle, which was revealed to
their mother in a heavenly vision, which so impressed her
that she became one of its strongest advocates, a synopsis
of which may interest others.
	After seeing many things, she found herself in the mids
of a large forest, and all the trees, as far as her vision ex-
tended, appeared to be withered and dry; the withered
remains of flowers and grasses also filled up the desolate
landscape; not a leaf, or anything indicating life, could be
seen While contemplating the probable cause of such a
calamity, a messenger of exceeding pleasing countenance
stood by her and pointed in another direction, when the
most lovely scene opened to her view—a beautiful land


filled with verdure and the perfume of flowers, vast forests
with their rich foliage extended on every hand, while the
murmur of gently rippling brooklets, and the sweet singing
birds, with their variegated plumage,awakened in her heart
the most heavenly feeling she had ever experienced.
	While gazing enraptured on this beautiful picture the
messenger touched her on the shoulder, and pointing to
the desolation of the first view, said: "This is a true repre-
sentation of the momogamic system of marriage, here is
the end of their increase, and the other represents the holy
order, the new and everlasting covenant of celestial marri-
age. Here is eternal increase, here is peace, eternal life
and joy."
	Just previous to her death she had another vision, the
substance of which I will give as related by her daughter:
	"One night while I was watching by my mother, being
overcome with sleep, I laid down upon her bed—I heard
the most lovely singing. Many voices joined in the chorus
and as the voices gradually died away, I awoke and mother
was still singing. Presently she opened her eyes and told
me she had been in the spirit world, where she was in a
large hall filled with women, who greeted her with singing
as she entered, and she joined in with them, and strange to
say I heard the singing, too." She said all the women
were plural wives, and that there was no distinction between
first, second, or third wives there, all were equal, all was
peace and purity.
	Sister Hughes was a woman of great faith, determined
energy, and of a most cheerful disposition. Her life was
not a "flowery bed of ease" but while surrounded with
many cares and trials, her cheerful presence was an inspira-
tion of hope and courage to those less happily gifted. Of
her it can be truly said that "they who knew her best loved
her most." She was a firm pillar in her own household,
who most keenly feel the loss of her companionship. "Her
children rise up and call her blessed," and the record of her
noble character and useful life is worthy a place in the his-
tory of the women of Israel.		L. T. F.
	July 6th, 1885.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Milk Creek, Oneida Co., Idaho, Sister Martha
E. Wilde, wife of Thomas H. Wilde, formerly of Brigham
City, Box Elder Co., Utah. After four days sickness,
died June 15th, aged thirty eight years and seven months.
Faithful to the last.
	Deceased held many responsible positions among the
young and rising generation, loved and respected by all
who knew her—a respected member in the Relief Society.
She leaves a husband and six children to mourn the loss of
her society.
	P. S. This makes the second deceased adult female
since the organization of the ward. Away off north in the
mountains we enjoy fine, warm weather. Crops are look
ing better than ever. Comparatively we enjoy peace and
happiness, living our religion more or less, undisturbed—
courts and judges and deputy marshals—notwithstanding.
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing condition, the law
of God, regarding C. L. of M., pretty well understood,
etc. Have commenced to store up wheat for a time of
need.
	On account of Danish, or other foreign births, not many
are able to read the EXPONENT; to me, however, the teach-
ings are greatly relished.
	Always trusting in the Lord, and praying for the deliver-
ance of Zion, I am,
		Ever your sister in the Gaspel,
			INGRID GRAHAM, Prest. R. S.

	DIED at Paragoonah Iron County, July 4th, 1885, after
a lingering illness of several years, Sister Lavenia H. Allen,
daughter of David and Mary Ann Yearsley, born Septem-
ber 1st, 1833, in Chester County, Pennsylvania. Joined
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the
City of Nauvoo; shared with the Saints in their expulsion
rom that place. Was at one time near death's door with
scarlet fever, and was healed through the administration of
the Prophet Joseph.
	Arrived in Salt Lake Valley in the fall of 1850. Mar
ried to Rufus C. Allen, March, 1853. They were called
to Dixie—she shared with her husband the trials and hard-
ships of opening up that country, and in the year of 1849
removed to Paragoonah where she lived and served as
Secretary of the Relief Society for three years and a half
previous to her death.
	We feel it our duty to express our appreciation of her
labors, and ever hold her memory dear to us. She was
	liant in the cause of truth, and her life was worthy of


imitation. She was most patient, never complaining in all
her years of suffering, willing to pass through all her Heav-
enly Father placed upon her, with the hope of gaining
eternal happiness in the presence of her Redeemer with the
sanctified.
	We sincerely sympathize with the bereaved husband and
relatives of the deceased, and pray that the Spirit of the
Lord may rest upon them and enable them to say, "Not
our will, O Lord, but Thine be done."
					ELIZA BARTON, President.
					SARAH HORSLEY, Ass't Sec.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

		Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.

IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF

Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries

HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS, AND CHEMICALS
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[Icon of a pointing finger] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 

H. S. ELDREDCE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
		112,	1l4, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[finger icon] Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[finger icon] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 3[--], SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1885.	No. 5.


THE BEGINNING AND THE END.

Dark clouds have gather'd aft and fore—
The lightnings flash, the thunders roar—
The fierce blasts sweeping here and there,
The stately forest trees uptear,
While raging elements at war,
The lovely face of nature mar.

"Offences must needs come"—but lo!
God has pronounced a telling woe
"On them by whom they come"—the evil
Who choose and love to serve the devil.

But there remains a glorious rest
For those by wickedness oppress'd—
For all the faithful Saints of God,
Who own His hand and kiss the rod;
All who in faithfulness abide,
With texture and with heart-strings tried;
E'en such as now in sorrow mourn
Their sires and husbands ruthless borne,
Unstain'd with guilt or crime, to dwell
Within a prison's loathsome cell.

Ye Saints of God, fear not—stand fast,
Nor cringe nor cower before the blast;
And Oh, be wise, and understand
The treach'rous kiss and velvet hand,
Which proffer life and liberty
At cost of your integrity.
You'd better risk the lion's den,
Or the thrice-heated furnace; then
On Israel's God you can depend,
Be true, and God will be your friend,
And you far better sacrifice
Your mortal life, than jeopordize
Your ALL—yes, ALL will be at stake,
If you your sacred covenants break;
And mark! this demon-like ordeal,
God will o'errule for Zion's weal.

Prosperity has never served
To sift out those who heedless swerved
From duty—those whose lives were spent
In carving their aggrandizement,
Or, pampering a morbid taste,
Let time and talents go to waste;
The hypocrite, with cordial kiss,
More dang'rous than the serpent's hiss—
The fawning sycophant, whose smile
Is fashion's trade mark, to beguile,
And for this purpose, God will use
Those whom the rights of man abuse.

	The reckless crusade will not cease,
Nor will the righteous dwell in peace,
Till all the hypocrites, with fear,
Dismay and trembling disappear;—
Till lying hordes, in silent gloom,
With traitors, meet their horrid doom—
Till Freedom, Truth and Justice reign.
And equal rights for all sustain;—
Till all true Saints, as one, unite
To serve the Lord with mind and might.
Then will the powers of Heav'n come down
And Zion's courts with glory crown.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Logan City, 24th July.


[Column 1]

AN ADDRESS.

To the Latter-day Saints in the Rocky Moun-
tain Region and throughout the world:

	As this is the anniversary of the arrival of
the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley under the
direction of President BrighamYoung, we
haye thought it a proper and fitting time to
address you briefly.

[Column 2]

	We came here as exiles thirty-eight years ago,
driven from our lands and homes, our Temple
and City of Nauvoo. We came to find an
asylum in this, the then American desert, and,
far from what is termed civilization, to try to
establish homes and seek that protection
among the red men of the wilderness that was
denied us, because of our religion, in the
United States. There was no other reason
at that time assigned for our expulsion but
our religion. Since then we have been re-
markably blessed by the Almighty in the ex-
tension of our settlements, in the building of
our cities, in the erection of our Temples, in
the introduction of education in all its vari-
ous forms, in our agricultural, manufacturing
and mercantile pursuits, and in the general
development of the resources of the country.
Under the blessings of the Almighty, and
through His guidance and protection, we have
been enabled to make the wilderness and soli-
tary places glad and the desert to blossom as
the rose; and through a spirit of industry,
perseverance and frugality we have been pros-
pered exceedingly in all our settlements.
That which was originally intended by our
enemies for our destruction has been made,
through the blessing of the Almighty, to re-
dound to our peace and happiness, and to our
establishment as a happy people throughout
these valleys—a people from whose family
altars continually ascend praise and adoration
to the Most High for the great blessings which
He has conferred upon us. We feel that unto
God alone and to obedience to His laws are
we indebted for the rich and varied blessings
with which we are surrounded.
	On this, the anniversary of the arrival of
the Pioneers in this Valley of Salt Lake, it is
fitting that we should thus publicly acknowl-
edge the hand of God; and while we at pres-
ent are in circumstances that are painful and
that have been brought about by the action
of inconsiderate, unreflecting, and, in many
instances, wicked and unscrupulous men, some
of whom are officials, yet we have never felt
like wavering in our fidelity to our govern-
ment, nor like ignoring the principles of equal
rights guaranteed by that sacred palladium of
human liberty—the Constitution of the
United States. Our motto always has
been, is now, and we hope always will be, as
expressed in the Declaration of Independence:
"That all men are created equal and are en-
dowed by their Creator with certain inaliena-
ble rights;" and that they have the right to
"life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
We are filled with regret when we see steps
taken by those in authority, who ought to
know better, to shackle the human mind and
thought, to bring American citizens into bon-
dage, and to pass and maintain laws that are
violative of every constitutional right. His-
tory bears ample testimony to the fact that in
past times no man's property, life or liberty
was safe in the hands of judges who sat upon
the bench and imagined they had a mission to
perform, and who, to accomplish their ends,
had recourse to packed juries.
	The history of Utah, during the past few
months, illustrates the same truth. The au-
thority of the Government is being made use
of, not to protect, but to harass, to prosecute,
persecute and destroy the most honorable and
upright of the land. Families are dissevered
and broken up, the most sacred ties are rent
asunder, homes are made desolate and many

[Column 3]

of our leading men languish in prisons among
thieves, murderers and criminals of the worst
description. Our cities, towns and villages
are infested with spotters, deputy marshals,
informers and all those questionable characters
who have found employment under tyrannical
and despotic governments in other lands and
in darker ages. To see the great principles of
human liberty thus ruthlessly trampled under
foot has caused us to feel sorrowful in our
hearts for this mighty nation cannot follow the
example of other powers who have, through
pride, maladministration of the laws and a
disregard of human rights, fallen into decay
and been overthrown, without meeting a simi-
lar fate.
	It was doubtless with these feelings of sor-
sow for the degeneracy which could permit
such outrages that some of our fellow-citizens
thought proper on the 4th of July to place a
few flags at half mast. Liberty was
stricken down, pierced in her vitals by the
hands of those who should be her protectors
and guardians. The just, the upright, the virtu-
ous and the honorable have been and are being
incarcerated in prisons under the forms and
color of law. And without dishonor to the
flag, what more fitting mode could citizens
adopt of exhibiting their grief at the con-
dition of affairs? To place the flag at half-
mast is the recognized symbol of grief through-
out Christendom. As free men they thought,
we suppose, they had the right to thus ex-
hibit their sorrow for the existence of the
evils from which they suffer, and not hypo-
critically indulge in laudations while upwards
of 200,000 American citizens are practically
denied the rights contended for in the Declara-
tion of Independence. Must a free people be
brought into such a state of servitude that
they cannot express their feelings in a custom-
ary way? Must they be bound, fettered and
chained, and then be gagged so as not to be
heard? Must they cover their manacles with
flowers, or wrap their fetters with cloths, lest
the clanking sound unpleasantly in the ears
of their tyrants, or free men be aroused to re-
volt at the spectacle? Tyrants and their apol-
ogists may attempt to make such action appear
disloyal; but we have not so learned the
principles of freedom. A condition of affairs
exists in this Territory which, when under-
stood, every lover of human rights must con-
demn; and in behalf of ourselves, in behalf of
our wives and children, in behalf of the Con-
stitution of the United States, and in behalf
of the principles of human rights and liberty
in this land and throughout the world, we en-
ter our solemn protest against such iniquitous
acts as are being perpetrated here. While we
do this we wish it to be distinctly understood
that we have no controversy with the Republic
as a nation, but that those who, sitting in high
places and administering the laws, are guilty
of out-rageous acts of oppression toward their
fellow-citizens.
	Millions of the people of this nation are de-
ceived by the false representations of religious
bigots and political tricksters, who, when they
shall know the truth, will be as much disgust-
ed at this outrageous crusade against the princi-
ples of human freedom as we now are.
	In reviewing the past thirty-eight years, what
abundant causes we have for thanksgiving and
praise! Every conceivable slander and false-
hood has been circulated concerning us and
our religion. Our enemies have endeavored


[Column 1]
to make the world believe that we ought to be
destroyed, and they have invoked every earth-
ly power within their reach to accomplish
this. But how marvelously God has wrought?
Time after time it has seemed to all human
vision that our destruction was inevitable, and
our enemies have rejoiced at the prospect.
But God has not forgotten Zion nor the prom-
ises He has made. He permits the wicked to
exercise their agency, and their acts are the
means of testing and proving His people.
But there are limits beyond which they can-
not go. They cannot interfere with His
designs, nor destroy His work. He controls
all their acts for His glory and out of seeming
evil He brings forth abundant salvation. Our
very recent experience shows us that there is
no cloud but has a silver lining. In our past
experience we have often had reason to feel
the truth of the words of the poet, that
	Behind a frowning providence
	He hides a smiling face.
In our present trials we shall have a similar
experience.
	Zion will emerge from them stronger and
purer and every way better qualified to cope
with and overcome the difficulties and obstacles
yet to be encountered. Our trust is not in
numbers, but in the strength and protection
of Israel's God, who controls all the millions
of the world; and puts down one and sets up
another according to the counsel of His own
will.
	If we can only manage to observe His law
and keep His commandments, He will protect
us "while grass grows or water runs," while
sun, moon and stars exist, or the earth and
heavens endure, and when there shall be a
"new heaven and a new earth whereon dwelleth
righteousness." The Saints if faithful to
their covenants, their wives and posterity,
shall enjoy them again, and possess them while
the celestial worlds progress in their eternal
spheres.
	We have been very much pleased at the
heroic conduct and honorable course of our
brethren and sisters who have had to endure
the insults and outrages perpetrated by the
present crusaders. The conduct of the Saints
under these trying circumstances has been
eminently proper. If the nation can bear and
put up with such infamies as have been wit-
nessed in these mountains, we can. We can-
not, however, at the behest of man, lay aside
those great principles that God has communi-
cated to us, nor violate those sacred and
eternal covenants which we have entered into
for time and eternity. It is admitted as a
fundamental principle that the States shall
make no law "impairing the validity of con-
tracts." If this is a correct principle concern-
ing dollars and cents, how much more is it con-
cerning the eternal happiness and salvation of
man!
	﻿While we always have a disposition to "ren-
der unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's"
we feel it indefinitely more important "to rend-
der unto God, the things that are God's" We
can afford to live for our religion, and if needs
be, to die for it; but we cannot afford to vio-
late our covenants, nor to prejudice our souls
before God; and we call upon the Saints, as we
have done heretofore, to lean upon the Lord
while passing through these afflictions which
are now being so unmercifully heaped upon
us by implacable and deadly foes, who are
seeking to crush out from our souls the princi-
ples of human liberty and to place us in a
condition of serfdom and bondage. Our hope
and trust are in the living God, and He will
come to our deliverance in His own due time
and will scatter the en[-]mies of Israel. There-
fore be not faint hearted for God will defend
the right. Live your religion, be humble, be
virtuous, be honorable, be honest, preserve
your integrity and keep the commandments of

[Column 2]
God, and He will sustain you in time and
throughout all the eternities to come, Zion
shall yet arise and shine and the glory of God
will rest upon her. The Saints shall see the
salvation of Israel and their enemies over-
thrown. They shall join in sacred songs and
anthems in praise and great glory to the Most
High, saying, Hallelujah! Hallelujah! for the
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth, and will reign
until he has put all enemies under His feet.
Therefore rally around the standard of free-
dom, uphold the flag of the Republic, sustain
the principles of human liberty and
maintain inviolate the Constitution
of the United States and all laws in accord-
ance therewith, and God shall smile upon you,
and you and your generations shall be blessed
in time and throughout the eternities that are
to come. We must still bear the same record
that we have heretofore borne to you: woe to
them that fight against Zion, for God will
fight against them.
	Although we have changed our office from
time to time we have been able to perform our
duties, with the exception of public addresses, 
as much as when at home. How long it shall
be the good pleasure of God, our Heavenly
Father, that we shall continue in our present
condition mattereth not. We hope always to
be resigned to His providence and to accept
at His hands all that it may be His good
pleasure to call us to endure, whether pros-
perity, or adversity, freedom or imprisonment,
life or death.
	With kind regards, we subscribe ourselves,
your brethren and fellow-laborers in the New
and Everlasting Covenant; 
		JOHN TAYLOR.
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
	Of the First Presidency of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	July 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE FADED WRAPPER.

	"Are you sorry that father has gone away to
stay over night, Alice?" said one of Mrs.
Montgomery's children to his sister. "It rains
so that no one will call; and now mother will
wear that faded wrapper all day. I heard her
tell Barbara she should have a good long day
for sewing. She doesn't think it worth while
to set even the dining room table just for us:"
	"Don't you wish she would spill ink on that
dress, Philip?" was the answer—"then she
wouldn't wear it any more."
	'No indeed, I don't want it any worse, for
she would wear it just the same rainy days and
when papa is away."
	Now mamma, in the next room, heard this
discussion of the children, and arose to take a
survey of herself in the looking-glass. It was
not a very pleasing picture that the polished
surface gave back to her view.
	"Now Harry Warren's mother," said Philip,
"is always dressed nicely, any time of the
day."
	She wears such pretty bows on her hair and
neck." said Alice. "But she isn't half so
pleasant as our mother," she added loyally, "if
she does look prettier."
	The mother's eyes glistened as she looked
down on the old wrapper.
	"To be compared to Aunt Warren," she
thought, "and by my own children, too. Who
would have thought they were such sharp little
things? They notice every trifle."
	Mrs. Montgomery's spirit was quite stirred.
She would not allow such a rival, she said to
herself, if she could eclipse her. "You shall
be disapointed about the old wrapper, for
once, Mr. Philip," she added smiling; so she
took a soft white dress, just the thing to en-
liven a dull day. Then she puffed her hair in
her prettiest style, and proceeded to dress her-
self with unusual care. The delicate lace col-

[Column 2]

lar was adorned with a bow of palest pink,
and her hair was tied back with a ribbon to
match.
	It is wonderful how these simple additions
to the toilet changed her whole appearance. A
little taste does much for a woman's toilet, and
yet how small, often, is the cost. A simple
knot of violet or crimson velvet will make a
dull dress look bright and even elegant. As
a great painter said, "trifles make perfection,
but perfection is no trifle."
	Mrs. Montgomery's face wore a brighter look
than usual that day, as she entered the nurs-
ery. Her dress had actually raised her spirits;
but she was hardly prepared for the burst of
admiration that greeted her. It is not often
that compliments are sincere and heart-felt
as were those of her little ones that day. But
her children's tones quickly changed to one of
anxiety. "Are you going away anywhere,
mamma?" they asked directly.
	"No, dears, I am going to sew on the ma-
chine all day; so we can have a nice time to-
gether."
	Little Alice hung over her chair a mintue,
admiringly, and fingered her buttons, as she
said, with a smile of deep content in her eye.
	"You look nice, mamma."
	Mrs. Montgomery smiled, as she threaded
the needle of the machine, while Philip added
proudly:
	"She looks nicer than Harry's mother, even
when she has her silk dress on."
	That was reward enough: she had eclipsed her
rival.
	"I'll remember this day's lesson," said the
mother, in her own heart, and she did remem-
ber it.
	The rainy day dress was doomed, and they
helped to rip it up with sincere pleasure. It
made excellent linings for a new one, and it
often preached its old sermon over, as it hung
wrong side out in the closet.
	Mothers, when you allow yourselves sloven-
ly ways among the little ones, in the seclusion
of the nursery, remember there's a child there
"a takin' notes." Those notes will be read
even when your head lies low. Of all the
bright pictures that hang on memory's wall,
there is none to me so fair as a sweet loving
mother, whose appearance was always neat and
tasteful, even in working dress. Children may
love an untidy mother, after a fashion but
they can never respect her. She cannot keep
the hold on them in after years that one of
the opposite habits possesses. Besides, if you are
untidy yourself, they will probably grow up
to imitate you. Don't neglect the details of
dress, that add so much to appearance, be-
cause there will be "no one about but the
children."— Wood's Magazine.


“Omaha, Nebraska, has followed the ex-
ample of Wyoming Territory, and sets the
country an honest example, by ordering that
the pay of women teachers shall hereafter be
the same as that paid to men of the same
grade in the schools.”
	The Manchester Woman's Suffrage Journal
says, “Now that the Franchise Act is passed,
and the Seats Bill has also received the Royal
Assent, those members whose primary object
has been to secure this large measure of repre-
sentation for men, may be urged to continue
their efforts in favor of the enfranchisement of
women.”
	The Woman’s Franchise Bill has been
moved in the House of Lords more than
once. The last occasion was June 23rd, when
Lord Denman brought it forward; by many
this was looked upon as an inopportune time,
as it was just as the Peers were about to ad-
journ. It still remains, however, on the order
book of the House of Lords among the Bills
awaiting second reading.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEEDTIME AND HARVEST.

In springtime a dearly loved friend and I
Planted seeds in hope of the blooms by and bye;
We planted and planned day after day,
Not in joy of the work, but in hope alway.
Ere the summer came my dear friend was gone
Forever from earth, and I, alone,
Tended and watched for the flowers to bloom— 
I gathered and laid them upon her tomb.

A mansion was builded, strong and fair,
And finished and furnished with greatest care;
A child lit a match—a fire was made,
And the grand new house in ashes laid.
The man, in building, spent all his wealth,
And the work and worry ruined his health—
By a child's little act so much undone,
The work of years in a moment gone.

I noticed a neighbor over the way,
So hopefully busy day after day,
Fashioning garments dainty and neat,
A smile on her face tender and sweet.
One morning I looked—crape on the door
Told me I'd watch the worker no more;
White crape and black—child and mother gone,
The dainty, neat garments would never be worn.

Two little birds in an old apple tree
Builded a nest just as nice as could be,
What became of the nest no one could tell,
Nor what cruel fate to the birds befell;
So blithesome and happy, the nest was begun,
Singing so cheerful till it was done,
Then when ,twas ready, all was o'er,
The little birds came to the nest no more.

So it hath been and will ever be,
None can tell the future for you or me;
Our flowers of hope so often bloom,
And are gathered only to deck a tomb.
Let's joy in improving life while we may,
Not worry and work for a future day;
Our future is with a Higher Power,
Though we build, or make, or but plant a flower.
		E. S. D.
Wyoming, O.


LINES.

[WTITTEN FOR THE TWENTY FOURTH OF JULY, 1880]

In eighteen hundred forty-seven,
	The Saints were led by Brigham Young;
And guided by the God of heaven,
	In Utah's valleys found a home.

Their Patriarch and Prophet slain—
	Driven from their homes by wicked men—
They wandered on the desert plains,
	Nor thought to see Nauvoo again,

But the great God of heaven led
	Them by the right way to this land,
And, by His wondrous power, He fed
	And guided them by His right hand.

And on July the Twenty Fourth
	They reached the vale of Great Salt Lake;
And here their leader said "We'll rest,"
	And build up some of Zion's stakes.

They planted here the "stars and stripes,"
	Upon the soil of Mexico,
And in the valleys hoped to rest,
	No more pursued by cruel foe.

The desert, by their hands redeemed,
	Soon blossomed like the beauteous rose;
And plenty in their homes abound,
	While they had rest from cruel foes.

Not long do they in peace possess
	The blessings by sore suffering gained;
Their foes pursue, with false pretense,
	To drive them from their homes again.

But God o'er-ruled, and, by His will,
	The scourge designed a blessing proved;
And He protects and guides them still,
	Tho' earth and hell with rage are moved.

Their homes extend from north to south.
	Throughout these vales, on every hand;


Their noble sons with joy go forth
	To preach the truth in every land.

They gather in the honest poor,
	To share the blessings God has given,
And be prepared their Lord to meet,
	When He shall come in clouds of heaven.

They will obey the laws He gives,
	In spite of earth and hell combined;
Even the law of plural wives,
	That they eternal lives may find.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
We meet, to celebrate this day,
	With joy and praise to Jesus' name,
Who led us forth by the right way,
	That we our mountain homes might gain.

Then hail! all hail! the Twenty Fourth,
	With love and joy let each heart sing,
And tune their voices long and loud,
	With praises to our God and King.
		T. L. H.


ABOUT WOMEN.

	An old Pennsylvania Dutchman, now
gathered to his forefathers, invariably summed
up his opinion of womankind in season and
out of season in these three words: "Women
are fools."
	In this he differs somewhat from one of
Dickens' heroes, who is chivalrously made to
say: "Rum creeturs is wimmin"	*	*
	1. Isabella of Spain comprehended and
sympathized with the plans of Columbus, and
aided him to accomplish his discoveries; there-
fore, "Women are fools. They cannot grasp
great theories."
	2. Caroline Herschel performed drudgeries
of calculation to help her brother, and also
made independent discoveries; hence. "Women
are fools. They cannot have truly scientific
bias."
	3. Lucretia Mott preached the Gospel of
"Liberty of the individual"—[-]odily, mental,
spiritual—to the last hour of h[--] g[-]andly
courageous life; ergo: "Wom[-]n [-]re [-]ools. They
are bound by priestcraft and superstition."
	4. Fanny Mendelssohn composed many of
the works attirbuted to her brother Felix; so:
"Women are fools. They cannot grasp great
music principles." [N. B.—I think Fanny
was a fool in this case not to take all the credit
that belonged to her.]
	5. Mrs. Stowe did more by her pen than any
ten men by their speeches to abolish African
slavery in this country, which proves that
"Women are fools. They are not capable of
judgment on great questions."
	6. Charlotte Bronte wrote an immortal novel
while toiling in the gloomy kitchen at Haworth;
hence, "Women are fools. They can only
think of but one thing at a time."
	7. Mrs. Roebling, during her husband's illness,
carried on stupendous calculations without
which the Brooklyn bridge could not have been
built. Evidently "Women are fools. They
have no head for the higher mathematics. Q.
E. D."
	8. Anna E. Carroll planned a vast campaign
during the civil war, which threw victories in-
to the hands of our Northern generals and
virtually saved the Union; hence, "Women are
fools. They have no military genius."
	9. Mary A. Livermore, in the same way,
did priceless work at the head of the Sanitary
Commission, thus showing that "Women are
fools. They have no executive talent."
	10. Mrs. Frank Leslie paid off a $50,000
debt in less than six months after assuming
control of the great publishing business left
by her husband, which makes it plain that
"Women are fools. They have no financial
ability."
	11. The Elder Mrs. Button, wife of the
senior partner of the Germantown Woolen


Mills, invented an improvement to a machine
after her husband and others had given up in 
despair, showing conclusively that "Women
are fools. They have no mechanical turn."
	12. According to Wm. Shakespeare—though 
this may be a myth—a lady named Portia, in
a "learned doctor's" wig and gown, once con-
founded the elders and solved a knotty legal
problem with which the Venetian masculine
wits had vainly grappled; therefore, "Women
are fools. They are incapable of viewing any 
case in its legal aspects."--Ex.


LADIES PRIMROES LEGUE. 

	June 9th an inaugural meeting of the Grand
Council of the Ladies' Branch of the Primrose
League was held in the house of the Marquis
of Salisbury, 20 Arlington Street, London,
and was numerously attended by ladies of rank
and title. This branch of the Primrose League
is intended to be thoroughly representative.
Lord John Manners, M. P., occupied the posi-
tion of Chairman, and made some general ex-
planations as to the circumstances which had
given rise to the organized efforts that were
being made, and stated that 2,000,000 new
electors, for the most part necessarily ignorant
and impulsive, had, for the first time, been given
the franchise, that the old established ma-
chinery of conducting elections had been swept
away, and an entirely new element of activity 
in this direction was opened out.
	Lord G. Hamilton, M. P., in his remarks
said these ladies were not asked to take part
in the rough and tumble of the contest, nor to
become election agents, but to use their influ-
ence in the rural parts of the country in the
towns and villages. Lord Hamilton moved
"that the meeting, having heard the statement
of the object of the Primrose League, pledges
itself to promote those objects by every means
in its power." He then said, "The object of
this meeting and of those who were advocating
the Primrose League, was to secure, as far as
possible, the co-operation of the ladies of Eng-
land in the task of promoting those principles
which alone could secure the greatness and
prosperity of the empire."
	Sir Stafford Northcote M. P., rose to second
the resolution. Mr. A. J. Balfour, M. P., sup-
ported the resolution and it was unanimously
carred. Sir Henry Drummond Wolff, M. P.,
read the report of the Ladies' Grand Council,
which stated that it was but three months
since the idea first originated of forming this
committee, yet already 300 ladies were enrolled
as members, and 20 Habitations (as they are
called) had been formed. These are presided
over by ladies of title and influence.
	Sir Algernon Borthwick,in his remarks, said
this was the first instance in history where the
ladies of England had gathered together in
such extraordinary numbers to work for po-
litical purposes. Not only would they instruct
the youth of England—and Lord Beaconsfield
had told us "that the youth of a nation are the
trustees of posterity"—but they would assume
their natural and true position as upholders of
the throne, and guardians of the welfare of
the realm. The saying of Lord Beaconsfield,
repeated by Sir Algernon Borthwick, con-
tains so much meaning that it ought never
to be forgotten.


"Emma F. Carey has been reappointed 
prison commissioner of Massachusets by Gov.
Robinson."
	The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop
of London, Cardinal Manning, of the Romish
Church, and Samuel Mosley, liberal member
of Parliament, have consented to serve on the
committee to examine privately the evidence
on which the Pall-Mall bases its charges and 
to report conclusions to the public.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	AUGUST 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
			PIONEER DAY.

	The 24th of July, “Pioneer day,” as it is desig-
nated by the Latter-day Saints, passed without the
least demonstration in Salt Lake City or any of
the adjoining towns. In some remote places where
the news of General Grant’s death did not reach
them in time, the exercises and amusements
planned for the day were carried out in the usual
style. In this city a Sunday School Jubilee had
been some time in preparation, and the children
anticipated a gala day, but there was no hesitation
on the part of the committee, and no objection
whatever made by the children when the sad
news reached here of General Grant's demise
with one accord it was immediately decided to
postpone the Jubilee indefinitely, and drafted the
following resolution, which was unanimously
adopted:
 	“Whereas, The announcement of the death of
General Grant has stricken every heart with grief,
causing a realization of the great loss sustained
by all, and
	 Whereas, The illustrious dead, when visiting 
Utah a few years ago, gazed with wonder and ad-
miration on the thousands of Sunday School
children who testified of their love and esteem for
him and manifested their wish to honor the presi-
dential head of a great nation by lining the streets
along which he drove, and greeting him as only
innocence can greet when greatness recognizes
and smiles upon purity; be it therefore
	Resolved, That the Sunday School Jubilee con-
templated for the 24th of July be indefinitely
postponed..”
		By Order of the Committee.

	No other public demonstration of any kind was
anticipated, though threats had been made by those
disposed to misconstrue every act and word of the
Mormon people of what would be undertaken on
that day, in case there was any indication on the
part of our people to celebrate. But their
mouths were closed and their wicked desires and
plans thwarted and overthrown when a national
sorrow fell upon all. The people who felt like
mourning before had now the opportunity to give
such public expression to their feelings as accord-
ed well with the sentiments expressed by raising
the flags at half-mast on the 4th of July. Governor
Murray, who had been strong in his denunciation
of half-masting on the Fourth, issued an official
proclamation, recommending  “that flags draped
in mourning be placed on all public buildings, and 
as far as practicable, on business houses, and on
the houses of the people,” etc., thus changing the
entire order of the day, as expected by those who
see so plainly the mote in the eye of another, but
have no idea or conception of the beam in their 
own.
	These people who see so much treason in the
doings of the Mormons, and are so anxious to
have them “wiped out,” had been calling upon the
military to be on hand on the 24th, in case they
could somehow or other provoke the Mormons

[Column 2]
into resenting any of their innumerable insults.
But they were foiled in their rich expectations of
creating a disturbance, in which they fondly hoped 
to figure largely as patriots and so on, and the fire
of their enthusiasm was considerably cooled down
when the proclamation of the Mayor and City
Council was issued, ordering all the saloons and
places where liquor could be obtained, to be closed
on that day.
	The day passed off quietly, and in the enjoy-
ment of home and the society of friends, one
could give vent to the peculiar feelings and emo-
tions that must necessarily well up in the hearts
of those who are under the ban of oppression now
brought to bear upon the Latterday Saints, even
upon those who have helped to pioneer the desert--
a day the people were wont to celebrate with festivi-
ties and rejoicings. But God moves in a mysteri-
ous way, and he knows how to temper the wind
to the shorn lamb, and He has established His
kingdom and given power to His Priesthood upon
the earth, and evil machinations of wicked men
cannot destroy that power and influence, nor hin-
der the growth of the work of God in these last
days, though they may harass and annoy the
Saints, and cause sorrow and grievous affliction 
to come upon them. The Saints who are in the
line of their duty will come off triumphant, and
whether in life or in death will have reason to re-
joice and acnowledge His hand in all things.


ULYSSES SIMPSON GRANT.

	General U. S. Grant, a great military hero of
the late civil war, and ex-President of the United
States died at Mount Mac.Gregor, on the morning
of the 23rd of July last. His death had been an-
ticipated for some time, as his sufferings had been
very severe and of such a nature that human skill
could only afford temporary relief. The General
died surrounded by his loved ones, and in the full
enjoyment of the greatness he had himself
achieved. He had the unusual honor of being
twice elected to the highest position in the gift of
the people of this nation. But it was really his
military career that gave him the national popu-
larity, and which caused his election to the office
of chief Executive of the United States. He
distinguished himself notably as a leader and a
true and skillful General in several of the most
important engagements during the war of the re-
bellion. His name will be handed down to pos-
terity as one of the bravest and wisest who have
fought for their country in its time of need. His-
tory will do him justice, for he appears to have
been a man fully appreciated during his lifetime,
which is seldom the case even with those who
have been the greatest benefactors to their con-
temporaries and to posterity. 
	The book, upon which the grand old General
spent his last working hours, will, when completed,
be held as a treasure by the world, and future
generations will read it with interest, as well as
those who knew him in life. His memory will
thus be preserved fresh and green by his own
hands and brain. There is no doubt that he will
have a superb and costly monument erected in
his remembrance, for already it is practically
talked about. In foreign lands, as well as in our
own, he has received most marked honors and at-
tentions from crowned heads and military chief-
tains, as well as the mases of the people. The
brave General died with an honorable record,and
in full possession of the mental powers and attri-
butes that had won the distinction that became
him so well, to the last hours of his life.
	General Grant was born at Point Pleasant,
Ohio, April 17, 1822. He was descended from
Scotch ancestry, and possessed many enduring
qualities, which are inherent in the Scotch race. He
received his military education at West Point, and
although the training he obtained there would
serve him well in the places he had afterwards to


fill, yet thorough technical discipline and educa-
tion alone could never have elevated him to the
exalted rank he occupied in military and civil life
without indomitable energy and perseverance, as
well as superior wisdom and judgment, and in fact
what every successful leader must possess, in a 
greater or less degree—forethought and intui-
tion.
	Elaborate preparations are being made for the
burial of this national military hero, and several
different public places have been named as suitable
burial place for the remains of so great a man, but
it is now expected that he will be buried at River-
side Park, New York, and already there is talk of
changing its name to Grant Park. 
	Memorial services in his honor will be held in
all parts of the United States, and in Westminster
Abbey in England. In Salt Lake City, Liberty
Park was selected by the committee appointed
for the purpose, as being the most desireable place
for the memorial services in honor of General
Grant.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Secretaries of R. S., Y. L. and P. A. in
this Stake of Zion should remember that written
reports are expected from each branch by the res-
pective stake secretaries immediately. 

	THE address of Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Prest. 
of the Central Board of Y. L. M. I. A., is at No. 
158 W. Third South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
She gives her address because so many mistakes
have been made in the correspondence with the
Associations. 

	WE regret that we are compelled to leave, until
next issue, an announcement of a class in mid-
wifery by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, which is to com-
mence Oct. 3rd. Those wishing to join should
communicate with her verbally, or by letter; as
soon as possible. 

	THE conference of the Relief Society and Y. 
L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake will convene Sep-
tember 11th and 12th, at Manti. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hyde, President of the Relief Society in that
stake, desires that the secretaries will please for-
ward their reports not later than the 1st of Sep-
tember, to the Stake Secretary, Mary Hyde, Spring
City. 
	
	SYNOPSIS of semi-monthly meetings in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, annual meeting of Y. L.
M. I. A. in the 19th Ward, including the very able
address by Coun. Underwood, reorganization of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward and a notice
from one of the Primary Associations of the death
of two of its members, also editorial matter, left
over for want of space, but will appear in the
issue of August 15. 
	
	MONDAY, August 3rd, is general election day, 
and we hope and trust the largest number of votes
will be polled that have been cast in this Territory. 
The women of Utah who are entitled to the fran-
chise ought to make a good showing at this im-
portant period in the history of the Territory. Let
nothing hinder you from depositing your ballot
for the People's Party. Be sure and vote the
right ticket. No doubt the Liberals and Demo-
crats will hand their tickets out freely.


ON THE DEATH OF GENERAL 
	GRANT. 

	"Death thou art infinite—'tis life is little."

	Our flag is floating in the breeze half mast, with 
flowing crape attached to it.  The ex-President of 
the United States has passed to the common
bourne "whence no traveler returns."  Our spirits
as a people, are in unison with that semblance of 
mourning, for we are suffering persecution and
woe.  Our very children are mourning for their


[Column 1]
absent fathers, thrown into prison for a principle
of their religion; hence it has for us a speaking
application, and seems to acknowledge the cloud
that is hovering over our otherwise beautiful at-
mosphere. 
	We are prepared to mourn.  The heart's deep
fountain is full, and, therefore, is easily broken up, 
and tears fall readily.  My tears have fallen as I 
read the last scenes of the mighty dead, America's
great chieftain and renowned warrior, the earthly 
savior of his country, as his warlike achievements
testify; hence, the half-mast colors of our country
this day in silent eloquence proclaim his loss. He 
was one of those deep souls whose lives are ab-
sorbed in thinking.  Silence was his motto, when
he spoke it was to command obedience to the
plans he had concocted, which were framed to 
win. 
	In life, he was applauded and appreciated—not 
always the meed of the great.  This was amply
tested when on his circumnavigating trip; every-
where he received a royal welcome.  Royal salutes
announced the arrival of his vessel in the nations'
harbors. England was especially prominent in 
these royal demonstrations. When entering
Buckingham Palace the sovereign laid aside the
severe etiquette of centuries, and met him in the
vestibule at the "top of the stairs," and, herself, 
escorted him to the seat of honor prepared for 
him! Henri Quarte of Charlemagne could have 
received no greater national honor!—as a brother
sovereign he was entertained throughout the visit. 
Even his daughter, of eighteen only—when she
chose to visit England, shone by reflection from 
her mighty sire, and she was also received by a 
royal salute as soon as she entered the nationa
harbor as one born in the purple and draped with
royal ermine.  During her visit in England she
was also received with due honors at the Queen's 
drawing rooms.  Perhaps an American can scarce-
ly realize how very distingue all this is in the
appreciation of the English.  And perhaps they 
can; for I believe the grand old country is pretty
well understood in this enlightened 19th century. 
These honors were tendered to the daughter of 
the man England delighted to honor.  Some may
curl the lip at all this, but none will who have
ever experienced it, for it is always given in so 
grand, so noble, and so genial a manner, that I 
should pity the heart and brain that were not ig-
nited by it with all the understanding, and apprec-
ciation they were capable of. 
	Death, that grand leveller of all has now done
his work upon our ex-President.  Tears have been 
shed for the sufferings of his last days; he has
the sympathy of nations and of their crowned
heads; for the good and the noble among them 
(and they are not a few) realize more than is gener-
ally believed—how frail is the texture by which
they hold their eminence; and that at the termina-
tion of their longest reign, death and the grave
await them equally with the humblest of their
subjects. 
	The last words of Charles the First to his
young son, a few hours before his sad death, con-
stitute a short sermon that ought to be written in 
gold; also those of James the 2nd, the exiled
King of England.  Yes, indeed, even among
crowned heads we find the grandeur and nobility
of the Christian.  The thoughtless mind looks
upon their exalted position, with envy and repining
and often with doubt as to the justice of the "King
of Kings"—not considering that with all their
grand surroundings, they also must find happiness
within their own bosoms or they can never pos-
sess it.  The grandeur and the greatness of the
world cannot give it.  History shows what mar-
tyrs many of them have been, and often we read
how nobly they endured. 
	God is just and one day this will be demonstra-
ted to all. 
	But I lift up my eyes and see the half-mast
colors with their mournful accompaniment and

[Column 2]
my thoughts run back to my starting point.  The
American chieftain "sleeps well, after life's fitful
fever is ended."  If he has earned a crown, he
will assuredly wear one eternally, and that he may
attain to that and all its appendages, is the
heartfelt prayer of one who is a unit in the family
of God. 
	HANNAH T. KING. 
	July 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOGAN TEMPLE. 

	Pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of 
Incorporation, of "The Logan Temple Associa-
tion"  the directors of the same, prepared and
adopted a code of by-laws at a meeting recently
called for that purpose; these by-laws will more
thoroughly assist to carry into effect the object
and designs of the Association.  On Monday, 
July 13th, 1885, the annual meeting of the mem-
bers was held in the basement of the Logan Taber-
nacle at which the by-laws were read.  The re-
port of the directors was presented and received. 
It set, forth that the Trustee-in-Trust had conveyed 
the legal title of the Temple and grounds to the
Incorporation, that instructors of various branches
of learning had been appointed, viz:  James Z. 
Steward, theology; Apostle Moses Thatcher, Civil
Government; Wm. H. Apperley, Science and Lan-
guage; James A. Leishman, History; Charles W. 
Nibley, Domestic and Political Economy; John
E. Carlisle, Natural Philosophy.  It is expected
that classes will at once be formed in the forego-
ing departments and lectures delivered upon topics
embraced within their purview. 
	A lecture room has been fitted up in the temple, 
in which will assemble the various classes con-
templated from time to time, to take part in the
exercises that may be assigned them by their re-
spective instructors.  During the past year up-
wards of one hundred volumes of standard au-
thors, chiefly of an historical character, have been
collected, and an elegant home-made book case
provided for them.  This is a very fair beginning
for an excellent library, which will be indispen-
sable to the growth and development of the As-
sociation.
	The incorporation having no assets, it being
purely an institution of learning, and not one of
pecuniary profit, it is expected that the Saints
generally will contribute liberally for the further
improvement and adornment of the grounds, the
purchase of literary apparatus, and donate books
suitable to the character of the institution. 
	That an association of this character has been
established should call forth the aid and support
of the Saints, and is reason for gratification
among all lovers of learning.  It will open up a 
field of instruction which will be of incalculable
benefit to all who will take an interest in it.—Ex. 
	JAMES A. LEISHMAN, Secretary.


[Column 1]
	AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	On the 3rd of February, 1841, The Patri-
arch, Isaac Morley, came to our house and
gave us each a patriarchal, or father’s blessing.
Mine was as follows:
	“Sister Emily, I lay my hands upon thy
head, in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, and I
seal upon thy head a father’s blessing.  Not-
withstanding thou art an orphan child, the
heavens and the earth are stored with blessings
foy thee.
	Thou hast embraced the fulness of the ever-
lasting Gospel in the days of thy youth, and
in the morn of thy life; thy name is registered
in the heavens.  The angels rejoiced over thee
when thou wast born into the kingdom of thy

[Column 2]
Savior, and if thou wilt ever support the
principles that adorn thy sex, thy name shall
never be erased from the Lamb’s book of life.
	And if thou wilt ask thou shalt receive in-
telligence pertaining to the kingdom of God;
the heavens and the earth shall unbosom their
blessings unto thee; thou shalt have the bless-
ing and gift to speak in wisdom and act in
prudence; thy example shall be worthy of imi-
tation to the daughters of Zion; and if thou
wilt listen to the voice of wisdom length of
days shalt be given unto thee, and thou shalt
have the blessing to see the winding up scene
of this generation; peace and tranquility re-
stored to man.  Thy blessing shall be handed
down to thy posterity from generation to genera-
tion, and thou shalt have the blessing to return
to the land of thine inheritance.  And thou
shalt have the blessing to see Ephraim crowned,
and to wait upon the table in a day when a
feast of fat things are prepared.  Thou shalt
sing the song of the redeemed.  And I ask
God my Heavenly Father to enlighten thy
mind, to guide thee in the days of thy youth,
and lead thee in the path of piety and virtue
all the days of thy life, and when thy Savior
shall make His second advent crowns of glory
shall be sealed upon thy head, and let the hon-
or and glory be given to God and the Lamb,
forever and ever, amen and amen."
	Times were hard and we were very destitute,
having been robbed and driven from our
homes and possessions so many times, and hav-
ing had much sickness after we came to Nau-
voo, and being afflicted in various ways, conse-
quently we were reduced to extreme poverty.
Mother was good at turning her hand to al-
most anything.  She got an old stock, such as
men wore at their necks at that time, ripped it
up, to learn how it was made, and then obtained
a block and went to work making stocks to sell.
In that way she earned a little to keep her
family.  My sister Eliza and myself were the
oldest of the children, and it seemed necessary
that we should do something toward earning a
living. Eliza had learned the tailor’s trade
while in Far West, and was a good seamstress;
she had no difficulty in obtaining work; but I,
what could I do?  I had learned to wash dishes,
to sweep and scrub a puncheon floor, and such
like things, aud the only chance that seemed
to be for me was to go out to work.  We would
think and talk upon this subject day after day,
and l think I cried a little, for the thought of
having to leave home to me was terrible.
While things, with us were in this condition,
Sister Emma sent for me to come and live with
her and nurse her baby.  It seemed as if the
Lord had opened up my way, it was so unex-
pected, and nothing could have suited me bet-
ter, for tending babies was my delight.  My
sister Eliza, also, went there to live, which
made it pleasanter for me and more home-like.
Joseph and Emma were very kind to us; they
were almost like a father and mother, and I
loved Emma and the children, especially the
baby, little Don Carlos.
	They gave me the privilege of attending
a school that summer, taught by Brother and
Sister Howard Coray.  This was the last of
my going to school.  What little education I
have got I received in the log cabin schools, as
we were roaming about, being driven from
place to place; but I have gained an experience
that money cannot purchase.
	On the 15th of August, 1841, the baby, Don
Carlos, died.  John C. Bennett made it his
home at the Prophet’s house at this time. He
was thought to be quite a great man, and had
cnnsiderable influence for good; but afterwards
turned traitor, and sought to injure Brother
Joseph by publishing falsehoods.  He secretly
worked for his destruction, and once, when the
Nauvoo Legion were having a sham battle, he
laid his plan to have the Prophet slain, but
Brother Joseph detected it, and frustrated his
wicked design.


[Column 1]
	The first intimation I had from Brother
Joseph that there was a pure and holy order
of plural marriage, was in the spring of 1842,
but I was not married until 1843. I was
married to him on the 11th of May, 1843, by
Elder James Adams. Emma was present.
She gave her free and full consent. She had
always, up to this time, been very kind to me
and my sister Eliza, who was also married to
the Prophet Joseph with Emma's consent; but
ever after she was our enemy. She used every
means in her power to injure us in the eyes of
her husband, and before strangers, and in conse-
quence of her abuse, we were obliged to leave
the Mansion House, and expected to leave the
city to gratify her, but things were overruled
otherwise, and we remained in Nauvoo.  My
sister Eliza found a home with the family of
Bro. Joseph Cooledge, and I went to live with
Sister Sylvia Lyons. She was a good woman,
and one of the Lord's chosen few. Emma
about this time, gave her husband two other
wives—Maria and Sarah Lawrence.
	Early in the spring of 1843 the Young
Gentlemen and Ladies' Relief Society was or-
ganized. Bro. Joseph gives a short sketch of
the rise of that society. He says: "In the
latter part of January, 1843, a number of
young people assembled at the house of Elder
H. C. Kimball, who warned them against the
various temptations to which youth is exposed,
and gave an appointment, expressly for the
young, at the house of Elder Billings, and an-
other meeting was held in the ensuing seek at
Bro. Farr's school room, which was filled to
overflowing. Elder Kimball delivered ad-
dresses, exhorting the young people to study
the Scriptures and enable themselves to 'give
a reason for the hope within them,' and to be
ready to go on the stage of action, when their
present instructors and leaders had gone be-
hind the scenes; also to keep good company, and
keep pure and unspotted from the world.
	"The next meeting was appointed at my
house, and notwithstanding the inclemency of
the weather, it was completely filled at an
early hour. Elder Kimball, as usual, delivered
an address, warning his hearers against giving
heed to their youthful passions, and exhorting
them to be obedient, and to pay strict attention
to the advice and command of their parents,
who were better calculated to guide the path-
way of youth than they themselves. My
house being too small, the next meeting was
appointed to be held in the hall over my
store.
	"I addressed the young people for some time,
expressing my gratitude to Elder Kimball for
having commenced this glorious work, which
would be the means of doing a great deal of
good, and said the gratitude of all good men
and of the youth, would follow him through
life, and he would always look back upon the
winter of 1843 with pleasure.
	"I experienced more embarrassment in stand-
ing before them than I should before kings and
nobles of the earth, for I knew the crimes of
which they were guilty, and knew precisely
how to address them, but that my young friends
were guilty of none of them, and therefore I
hardly knew what to say. I advised them to
organize themselves into a society for the re-
lief of the poor, and I recommended to them
a poor lame English brother (Maudsley) who
wanted a house built, that he might have a
home amongst the Saints; that he had gathered
a few materials for the purpose, but was unable
to use them, and had petitioned for aid. I ad-
vised them to choose a committee to collect
funds for their purpose and perform this charit-
able act as soon as the weather permitted. I
gave them such advice as I deemed was calcu-
lated to guide their conduct through life and
prepare them for a glorious eternity. A meet-
ing was appointed to carry out these sugges-
tions, at which William Cutler was chosen

			[Column 2]
President and Marcellus L. Bates, Clerk; An-
drew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer and Stephen
Perry, were appointed to draft a constitution
for the society, and the meeting adjourned to
the 28th of March, when the said committee
submitted a draft of a constitution, consisting of
twelve sections. The report was unanimously
adopted, and the meeting proceeded to choose
their officers. William Walker was chosen
President; William Cutler, Vice President;
Lorin Walker, Treasurer; James M. Monroe,
Secretary; Stephen Perry, Marcellus L. Bates,
R. A. Allred, William H. Kimball and Garret
Ivins, were  appointed a committee of vigilance.
The meeting then adjourned until the next
Tuesday evening.
	“The next meeting was addressed by Elders
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Jedediah M. Grant, whose instructions were
listened to with breathless attention."
	After the Prophet's death, I again entered
into plural marriage. I was married to Prest.
Brigham Young according to the law of proxy,
and received my blessings in the Temple at
Nauvoo. I had one son born in Nauvoo; he
was named Edward Partridge Young Smith.
The Saints were again driven from their homes,
and I crossed the Mississippi River about the
middle of February, 1846, and was again
without home or shelter, an outcast and a wan-
derer in the dreary wilderness, without even
the necessaries of life. My babe was about
three months old. I was not quite twenty-two,
and had been driven, with  the Saints of God,
by mobs, four times, and all for my religion.
The weather being cold and stormy, the camp
could not progress very fast on their jour-
ney.
	As the season advanced, settlements were
formed, and some of the different companies
stopped to raise crops and recruit their teams.
When we arrived at Grand River our company
halted until other companies came up. A set-
tlement was organized, and Father Wm.
Huntington was appointed to preside. He
died and was buried there. The place was
named Mt. Pisgah. Here I joined my mother's
family, and as she was going to stop, I con-
cluded that I would rather stop, too, rather
than be separated from her again. The breth-
ren built log huts for those who were going to
stay, and although they were without door, win-
dow, floor, fireplace, or chimney, they did nicely
for warm weather.  Our shanty was in a
beautiful grove on the hill, about half a mile
from the river ford. We had several neigh-
bors close by.
	My sisters, Eliza and Caroline, went on
with the companies. and as my baby was very
sick at the time it made me feel very lonesome
to see them all go and leave us, so few, alone
in the wilderness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & -P. A. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER SRAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Box
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, on the 8th of June, Sister
Harriet Snow presiding. On the stand were
present all the officers of the Stake organiza-
tion, except the second counselor, Sister Mary
Stark, who is and has been, very sick for
several months. Prest. Oliver Snow and
Patriarch Box were also present.
	Sisters Hubbard, Keller, and Harper report-
ed verbally, after which Prest. O. S. Snow said:
"I look upon these organizations as a great
help to the Priesthood, organized by the revela-
tion of God, hence the importance. A few
years ago they were but small organizations,
but now they are wonderfully extensive. I
can also see a great improvement in the sisters,
intellectually; many if them can rise and
speak eloquently on any subject; not that I
wish to say that it is necessary to be a fluent
speaker in order to be useful in the kingdom
of God; we find many who have  not that talent,
but are great helps in the kimgdom." Spoke 
of the firmness of many women; referred to
the persecutions of to-day, and said, "They do
not care anything for our morality or immorali-
ty," and showed how inconsistent the proceed-
ings are.
	During Prest. Snow's speaking, Sisters Eliza
R. Snow Smith and Jane Richards had arrived
with the train, and entered during his re-
marks.
	Sisters Jane Richards felt pleased with the
remarks of Prest. Snow; "He has given us
quite an encouragement; we all like to be en-
couraged once in a while, but most of us do
not enjoy being reproved, although it will do us
good. We need to be very humble and prayer-
ful. We have had peace so long that I almost
feared the Lord had forgotten us, but we see
He has not, for the Scripture says that the
son or daughter that He loves, He will chastise.
hence, those that are persecuted are the people
of God. When we feel the Spirit of God
resting upon us we feel reconciled to whatever
the Lord will require; if we live faithful lives,
full of His Spirit, we cannot alone call Him
Father, but we feel He is Father." Spoke
very encouragingly and instructive; alluded to
the trials and unpleasantness of those who are
persecuted, but thought we had to be thankful
and rejoice that we are numbered among God's
chosen people.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith felt pleased to
see such a large congregation in the forenoon;
said, "You and I do not want to belong to the
exception, we want to be true, to belong to
those God has revealed but what is more
than mortal lives. As a people we have grown
very selfish, our hearts have drawn out to the
love of the world." Spoke of her feelings and
experience at the time she embraced the Gos-
pel, the powers of darkness exerted itself so
strongly. Said, death is a thousand times
more acceptable than apostacy. Bro. Heber
C. Kimball was called the prophet of Brigham.
He said, 'There will come a day that will try
every one.' So there will be something that
will try every one of this peope."
	Conference adjourned till two o'clock. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bro. Box.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, the following sisters spoke and reported
their different organizations:	Sister Terry,
Mary Grant, Mary E. Snow, Susannah Booth.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith said, "We have
heard so many things-- we have come to
a fountain that will never be exhausted. Our
religion is a pratical one, not theory alone; we
are workers, and to become a good housekeep-
er I think is one of the greatest arts, if not
the greatest. Let our young girls learn to be
good housekeepers, and then cultivate fancy
work, art and music after; but let housekeep-
ing be the first consideration." Spoke in very
strong language against "banged hair;" said,
"We want our young girls to look the most
sensible, the most intellectual. When I meet
a young lady who is willing to show her brow,
I see she has some sense." To have a good
home it takes order; it is no ordinary thing to
be a good housekeeper. Should a mother, then,
take all the responsibility and care upon her-
self through sympathy for her daughters? It
is a cruel mother that will do all herself to
save her girls. A good home is the founda-
tion of a nation." Spoke of home industry,
storing grain for the famine and raising silk.
"A few individuals have done the best they
could, but the Lord never meant to accomplish
these things by individuals and then we are
told to keep the Sabbath day holy. We had
better suffer persecution than to be a rejected
people. I have heard from others that the


Prophet Joseph had said that the Saints
would go up to the Rocky Mountains, and
there should be the greatest apostacy—about
two-thirds of the people. Bro. Kimball said
the same. what of we should go to prison—I
don't know, but I hope I would die cheerfully
rather than relinquish one principle of our re-
ligion. It is not alone our privilege, but our
duty to acknowledge the hand of God in all
things. We have more to encourage us, to see
this ordeal before us, than otherwise; I believe
when this is past Zion will be resplendent. Told
how she had seen the time when the Saints
would be one in principle. Spoke in beauti-
ful and eloquent language about our striving to
be faithful.
	Sister Jane S. Richards said: "I have been
thinking if it would be wisdom to try to speak
after having heard such an excellent discourse
as we have heard. I have thought a great
deal of Sister Eliza's remarks on Sabbath
breaking, which is a subject that interests me
greatly." Spoke of the many conferences we
have the privilege of attending, and how great-
ly we are blest; all are comfortably dressed, and
have plenty to eat. We have seen hard times
in the past. Felt thankful for the many rains
we have had this spring, and said, "To me this
is a great comfort, to see the Lord is not going
to starve us while we are persecuted. The
Lord will arrange our affairs better for us than
we can." Referred to those who neglect our
meetings; felt to give them a special blessing,
because they did not enjoy. what we do who
meet together. Spoke eloquently on the bless-
ings we enjoy, and prayed fervently that those
present might prove faithful.
	Bishop Terry from three Mile, and Bishop
Harper from Calls Fort, both made a few clos-
ing remarks full of encouragement.
	Prest. Harriet Snow notified all to attend
the Relief Society Fair in the Court House,
and after singing, conference adjourned for 
three months.
			THE FAIR.
	The fair was a beautiful sight, particularly
so to those who know that almost everything
was what the sisters had on hand, not exactly
prepared for a fair. The spirit of the time
has cast a certain gloom over everybody, and
the craving for pleasure not so great. Many
felt like giving it up, but Sister Susannah
Booth, with her natural energy, felt otherwise,
and the love that we feel for "Aunt Harriet,"
our President, caused that everybody brought
forth in a hurry all the nice things they had on
hand—too numerous to mention all— beautiful
quilts, dainty lace pillow shams, tidies in net-
ting, knitting and crochet, one lovely knitted
bedspread, by Sister Barnard White of Three
Mile, embroidered collars, pillows cases, skirts,
baby dresses, aprons, a lot of netted neckties,
for sale, made by Sister Karen Olsen, seventy-
seven years old; beautiful lace neckties, Sister
Smith, sixty-nine years old; fanciful patterns,
knitted in wool and cotton, stockings both for
children and adults, crochet baby jackets, knit-
ted petticoats, for ladies and babies, in wool,
shawls, red, black, white and black checked,
lindsey, white checked and changable, a good
many pieces; rugs, knitted garters, odd pattern,
beautiful worked mottoes, mats, ornaments of
different kinds, beautiful gloves, collars in silk
and beads, hats for boys and girls, pincushions,
sofacushions in tapestry, and elegant crazy quilt,
by Susannah Booth, good shoelaces, made by
a Swedish brother by the name of Carlsen,
embroidered flannel skirts, a lovely scarf em-
broidered with cream colored silk on same
color nun's veiling, by Alvira Widerborg; a
novelty in a corset, made of home-made linen,
by Theorie Mikkelsen; horns for autumn leaves,
beautifully ornamented; cromoes; and a striking
feature was a hat and wreath made of fibres of
a squash vine, by Chiefess Rapukine, President
of the Relief Society of Mauie, Hawaiian
Islands, presented to Armeda Young; rag car-
pets; wool carpets, striped; vegetables and
fruits; beautiful flowers, growing everywhere,
and lovely cutflowers, but the main spot of
beauty and attraction was the
			SILK DEPARTMENT.
	Here were worms eating away their green
leaves, some spinning, still in the brush, fresh
cocoons from this year, seven pounds of silk,
some reeled, some spun and colored, by several
sisters, but the following is silk by Sister
Christena and Eliza Forgren: six different
kinds of silk cloth; sixteen yards one lovely
piece of changable crimson and blue dress
goods; thirteen yards of purple and white;
twelve yards of pink and white, for underwear,
woven kersey; ten yards beautiful heavy black
and white, woven four leaf, intended for vests
for all their sons and sons-in-law; also a small
sample in blue and brown of the same material;
eight yards of white kersey, for underwear;
sewing silk, spun and twisted, red, blue, black
and white; black mitts; red and white neckties;
black and white collars, done in netting and
crochet; three grey made up dresses, one
trimmed around the skirt with a heavy black
silk fringe, also home made; one dress of the
same—property of Alvira Forsgren, Secretary.
All of the above is entirely Mrs. Christena and
Eliza Fosgren's own work, form the green
mulberry leaf to the last stitch in making it
up. Gedske Rasmuson, seventy-two years of
age, had one changable dress, crimson and
blue, made by herself, except coloring and
weaving, which was done by Mrs. Christena
Forsgren. Two grey dresses made by Mrs.
Christena Christensen and daughter.
			EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.									
.﻿


A GENTILE WOMAN'S LETTER.

				OHIO, July 12th, 1885
DEAR MORMON SISTERS:

  I read almost daily in the papers something
concerning your people, and always with deep
interest, and I believe I must say it, great sym-
pathy for you.  I cannot believe you a bad peo-
ple, and, seeing the constant, daily unpunished
violation of law around us here, my heart is
filled with sorrow and my soul with bitterness
by the great show of righteousness in prosecut-
ing the Mormons.
	The Catholics hold "church above state" as high
ly as the Mormons are said to, and not only so,
they have no morals--on every corner around
us is a saloon, the proprietor and family go to
the Catholic Church strictly every Sunday
morning to "early mass."  Then, notwithstand-
ing 'tis against state and corporation law, they
sell liquor all the rest of the day. Now and
then (just after an election, when the new
officers are very zealous) the evil is partly
checked, but they soon begin to venture out
further and further, and just before an election,
the saloon keeper does as he pleases--their vote
is desirable.  The Catholic vote counts, and
other church members, if interested in politics,
especially if running for office, cultivate them.
There are good persons in the Catholic Church,
but the history of the church is bad--ten--a
thousand times worse than the Mormon record,
and the Catholic Church, though the individual
members are changed, is the same as the
Catholic Church of old.  Queen Elizabeth will
behead the Catholic Queen Mary, if their in-
terests conflict.
  Your crime, in the eyes of most of your
enemies, is not your belief in polygamy, but is
your voting the Democratic ticket. The Republi-
cans hold up your polygamy because they
know that the Democrats dare not come out
boldly, and stand by you without--to use a


common expression—giving themselves away
on the Polygamous question, and it is a delicate
question, for every man values his domestic
peace and harmony, and a show of virtue
covers a multitude of shortcomings. I venture
a wager, that, did all men dare do so, eight
out of ten would vote for polygamy, and four
out of eight already practice it in secrecy.
	This arresting and throwing into prison men
who are good, moral citizens, except that they
have more than one wife, makes me think of
hogs rooting each other out of the trough, and
squealing while they get in snout and feet.
Sometimes I have a mind to follow Ann
Eliza's plan—"escape," and as she got an east-
ern man to write up her lecture against the
Mormons, I could get a "Mormon" to write
my lecture, and then tell "what I know of
the anti-Mormons" (and the uncles, too).
	The little EXPONENT comes regularly, and
is, as ever, read with pleasure and interest.
Hoping all will come out right, and that you,
and we all may live in peace and prosperity, I
remain,		Your friend,
				EMILY SCOTT.


A REUNION.

SALT LAKE CITY, July, 3rd, 1885.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The month of June was quite a gala time
for the Twentieth Ward. On the second of
the month a special meeting of the Relief So-
ciety was held. The following visitors were
present: Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, M. I.
Horne, H. M. Whitney, Rachel Grant and E.
H. Woodmansee. Instructions were given in
regard to looking after the poor, and other in-
teresting subjects were treated upon.
	After the close of the meeting, the sisters
gathered at the residence of C. R. Savage,
where the tables were spread with a bountiful
repast. After partaking of the banquet and
indulging in social chat for an hour or two,
most of the sisters attended the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and all felt repaid for their day's meeting.
	On the 12th the Y. L. M. I. A. had a straw-
berry festival, which was a success in every
sense of the word. The hall, decorated with
festoons of flowers, and the well set tables, looked
as it never had before. The Bishop and
Counselors, Bro. and Sister Tingy, and nearly
all the prominent members of the ward were
present. The evening passed along very
pleasantly—songs, speeches, and recitations
were listened to with interest, and then refresh-
ments were partaken of after which the tables
were cleared away, and the pleasant affair
wound up with dancing.
	CECILIA SHARP.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Though God may seem to frown in His
providences, yet He always smiles in His
promises.--Ex.

	Live near to God, and so all things will ap-
pear to you little in comparison with eternal
realities.--R. M. M' Cheyne.

  Good temper, like a sunny day, sheds a
brightness over everything. It is the sweetener
of toil and the soother of disquietude.--
Irving

	It is always good to know if only in passing
a charming human being: it refreshes one like
flowers and woods and clear brooks. --George
Eliot.

	If you have any doubt about woman's hav-
ing time to vote, visit a crazy quilt show, and
write yourself down as ignorant of woman's
spare time, as of woman herself.--Richmond
Independent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Nowhere can a man go that temptation can-
not find him, Temptation possesses a free pass
on all railroads, a free berth on all the boats, a
free entrance to school-rooms, and business
offices, and play-grounds,—and even to the
churches.—S.S. Times


The Bill to render legal marriage with a
deceased wife's sister stood for second reading
on June 11th, but as the Lords did not sit on
that day it could not come on, and it has since
been withdrawn. The question is one which
will probably be submitted to the new Parlia-
ment at an early date after the general elec-
tion, and as it is a subject on which there is a
very strong feeling among women the injustice
would be obvious if they were to remain en-
tirely without representation in the Legislature
which, will be asked to deal with it.—Ex


Patents have been issued, to women during
the week ending June 23rd, 1885, as follows:
	Mary G. Barbour, Bradford, Mass., Broiler
or Toaster.
	Clara E. Hosmer, Auburn, N. Y., Leggin.
	Mary E. Woodward, Parker, Dakota Ter.,
Folding crib.

	The following patenss were issued to women
during the week ending June 30, 1885:
	Lydia J. Cadwell, Chicago, Ill., Apparatus
for treating the products of rendering-tanks.
	Lydia S. Purington, Westboro', Mass., Cor-
set.
	Anna Dormitzer, New York, N. Y., Win-
dow-cleaning chair.
	Charlotte A. Gandill,Brooklyn, N.Y.,Lady's
skirt-protector.


OBITUARIES.

  It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the death of
our sister and co-worker, Sister Sarah M. Hawkins, who
died suddenly, May 2nd, 1885, aged forty-eight years and
two months.  Although she had been sick most of the
winter, yet she recovered so far as to be enabled to go to
the Logan Temple to do some work for her dead, and it
seemed to satisfy her that she had been there.  She leaves
a husband, a large family and many friends to mourn her
loss.
	At her funeral the speaker paid her the highest tribute
that could be given to woman, by saying she had been a 
pure, consistent woman in every phase of life.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

  Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst our beloved sister,
  Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers of
the 8th Ward Relief Society, do deeply mourn her loss,
that we cherish her memory and emulate her many virtues,
for we can truly say she manifested that true charity which
flows from a sense of duty and hope in God.
  Resolved, That we sympathize with the bereaved hus-
band and family in the loss of a loving wife and mother,
and we pray that God will inspire her children to walk in
her footsteps.
  Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication, and that they be placed upon the
ward record.
						E. B. FLETCHER, President,
						CATHERINE PALMER
						JANE COWAN, Counselors.
  It is with feelings of deep sorrow and regret that we
chronicle the death of our beloved sister, Hester Ann
Beebee, who passed peacefully to her rest on the 25th of
June, at her residence in the Second Ward, Provo, sur-
rounded by many of her relatives and friends.
  Sister Beebee was the widow of George Beebee, and the
seventh child of Dr. David W. and Martha Rogers. Was
born in Dunkirk; Chatuaque County, New York, March
23rd, 1825; was baptized in 1841, in  Mississippi River
at Montrose, Iowa, opposite the City of Nauvoo. Was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
passed through all the persecutions of the Saints at that
place.
  After their exodus from Nauvoo, Sister Beebee settled
with her family in Iowa, but her heart and sympathies were
with the people in all their wanderings in the wilderness,
with a desire to be with them, but circumstances prevented
her wishes being gratified till the year 1876, when, with her
family, she gathered with the Saints and settled in Provo.
  She was the mother of eleven children, six of whom are
living to mourn her loss. Sister Beebee was a great ad-
mirer of what was most lovely in nature; was passionately
fond of flowers, and spent much of her time in laboring to
beautify her home, which she made a bower of beauty and
loveliness. She often contributed her floral offerings to dec-
orate the dead, and adorned the strands of our tabernacle
on Sunday and other occasions.
  She held the dual offices of Treasurer to the Utah Stake
Relief Society since its organization, in the year 1878, till
her demise. Was appointed Stake President of the Silk
Association in 1881. Ever since she held that office she
seemed never weary in trying to make a success of that en-
terprise; was a person endowed with much executive ability,
as well as great powers of endurance, combined with
moral courage and perseverance, and withal a most devoted
Latter-day Saint.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

  Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our dear sister, who was
an active member of our Society, a co-worker in the cause
of truth, one who never faltered, but faithfully discharged
her duties to the best of her ability in every position she was
called to act, therefore,
  Resolved, therefore, That we tender our deepest sym-
pathies to the family and friends of our departed sister,
praying that the comforting influence of our Heavenly
Father may rest upon them and fill their hearts with peace,
that they may bow in humble submission to His will, feel-
ing that He doeth all things well.
  Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be spread
upon our minutes, also upon the record of each society in
the county, and a copy sent to the EXPONENT for publica-
tion,						MARY JOHN,
						EMILY G. CLUFF,
						MARILLA M. DANIELS

	A TRIBUTE TO SISTER H. A. BEEBEE.

  Sister Hester A. Beebee, who died not long since at
Provo, was an untiring worker in the cause of silk culture.
She was President of the Utah Silk Association, and had
been, for some time, and even previous to that time, a very
efficient help to Sister M. I. Smoot, the former President.
She was a very intelligent and able worker in many other
directions, and her loss will be deeply felt by the sisters in
that county.
  Sister Lucy W. Kimball has given a few items in refer-
ence to Sister Beebee's labors in this direction, which we
think are proper to publish, as they show the special inter-
est and desire she had to carry out the counsel given in
the establishment of silk culture and manufacture.
  "I assisted Sister Beebee in getting the reeling in opera-
tion, prior to leaving for California, which was in Novem-
ber, 1882. There were then several young ladies taking
lessons in reeling. She writes in the following May that
silk reeling was again in operation, A young lady from
Toquerville was learning to reel, with a view of taking a
class on her return home, and that she was very anxious to
get all the old cocoons reeled up during the summer.
 July 22nd she wrote, "We have decided to emigrate a
silk weaver from England," and stated that the reels ordered
from Philadelphia had already arrived. 'Mrs. Lucy B.
Young has for the last week been taking lessons at my
house, and will send for a reel for St. George.'
  'My interest in the silk industry is increasing, and I begin
to think we may yet realize all our fondest hopes in the
manufacture of silk. I so often wish you were here to as-
sist and counsel me. My anxiety is so great I can scarcely
wait for you to name the date of your return. I have to-
day written to Philadelphia, Iowa, London, England and
to you in California in the interest of the silk. Do send
me all items of interest on this subject.'
  'I have just received a rare specimen of reeled silk from
the Woman's Silk Association.'
  Sister Daniels also writes me while in California: 'I can-
not close without giving you some idea of Sister Beebee's
home. It is completely filled with looms, wheels, reels,
runners, bobbins, and added to these the weaver and her
daughter. In her zeal she has almost turned herself and
family out of the house and home.'
  They have succeeded, however, in making some very
fine handkerchiefs, also very fair dress goods. She has
done all the coloring with her own hands, and is only
waiting your return to make it a complete success.' "


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

	Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Nations, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
	And an elegant assortmenf of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1885.	NO. 6.


ASPIRATIONS OF THE SOUL.

Teach me to know the mystic art
	Of drawing near to Thee!
Teach me to know eternal life,
	By being one with Thee.

Teach me the knowledge how I may
	Indeed behold Thy face!
The vision of my mind expand,
	That I may see the place
Appointed in the realms above
	For me, and all that's mine—
I only ask that we may be
	With Jesus—the DIVINE.

I worship Him—He seems so near
	His footprints I can trace—
This very earth. He's walked upon,
	And I can paint His face!

But there's another, higher still,
	Whom Jesus "Father" called,
Will mortal ever see revealed
	The God of all the world?

Oh! mystery of mysteries,
	Oh! how my soaring soul
Yearns for a glimpse of that grand Sight,
	Whose word the worlds control.

He'll fill the longings of my soul,
	He'll set my spirit free—
My brain and limbs, yea, all I am,
	Enfranchised then will be.

Savior, I bring my soul to Thee,
	Disrobed from things of time;
Touch me but with Thine holy touch,
	And seal me ever thine.

	HANNAH T. KING.
August 4th, 1885.


[Column 1]

A SONG OF ZION.

[SUNG IN TONGUES BY ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY, AT
NAUVOO, 1843, AND INTERPRETED IN VERSE BY
PARLEY. P. PRATT.]

Age after age has rolled away,
Since man first dwelt in mortal clay;
And countless millions sleep in death,
That once supplied a place on earth.

According to the fate of man,
Which God had fix'd in His own plan,
So age must come, and age must go,
Till work complete is here below,

Which has been seen by Saints of old,
And by the prophets was foretold;
Which wondrous things are drawing near,
That Enoch saw and Saints did cheer.

Enoch, who did converse with God,
Stood on the mount and stretched abroad
His soul, wide as eternity—
He rent the veil and heaven did see.

With mighty faith he did expand—
O'er earth and heaven, o'er sea and land;
Till things above and things below,
He did behold, yea, did them know.

His heart he tun'd to notes above,
His soul o'erwhelmed with boundless love;
He sang a song in heavenly lays,
While angels' tongues joined him in praise.

With finger ends God touched his eyes,
That he might gaze within the skies;
His voice he raised to God on high,
Who heard his groans and drew him nigh.

[Column 2]

With joy and wonder, all amazed,
Amid the heavenly throng he gazed;
While heavenly music charmed his ear,
And angels' notes removed all fear.

"Hosanna!" he aloud did cry,
"To God who dwells above the sky,"
Again "Hosanna" did resound
Among the heavenly hosts around.

His voice, he raised in higher strain,
Echoed, and re-echoed again;
Till heaven and earth his voice did hear,
Eternity did record bear.

The trump of God around the throne
Proclaimed the power of God anon;
And sounded loud what should take place;
From age to age, from race to race.

Among the heavenly hosts he sang
God's scheme of life for sinful man;
And for the Gospel's saving grace,
He praised the Father face to face.

The end of all his labors here,
Were all unfolded to him there;
His city raised to dwell on high,
With all the Saints above the sky.

He saw before him all things past,
From end to end, from first to last;
Yea, things before the world began,
Or dust was fashioned into man.

The place of Adam's first abode,
While in the presence of his God;
Before the mountains raised their heads,
Or the small dust His balance weighed.

With God he saw his race began,
And from Him emanated man;
And with Him did in glory dwell,
Before there was an earth or hell.

From age to age whate'er took place,
Was present then before his face;
And, to the latest years of man,
Was plain before him heaven's plan.

His eyes with wonder did behold
Eternal glories yet untold;
And glorious things of latter time,
Which angels have to tell to man.

He then did hear, in days of old,
The message that to John was told;
The Angel who the news did bring,
He heard him talk, and heard him sing;

And knew before the days of John,
What glories were on him to dawn;
The message which he did receive
He heard, and saw, and did believe.

He knew full well what John should hear
Concerning times and latter years;
When God again should set His hand
To gather Israel to their land.

The Gospel then from darkest shades
Should rise and go with rapid strides;
Till nations distant, far and near,
The glorious proclamation hear.

The Angel that this news proclaims
Should come and visit earth again;
Commit the Gospel, long since lost,
To man, with power, as at the first.


[Column 1]
	A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	I read, not long since, an address delivered
at Denver by Bishop Tuttle, in which he gives
the "older Mormons" the credit of being "un-
selfish, prayerful and unworldly minded," and
says: "I can't see that Mormonism is less strong

[Column 2]
﻿to-day than it was eighteen years ago. The
strength of Mormonism is a marvel. When I
first went to Utah I had an idea that Mormon-
ism was destined, in time, to be destroyed by
its own elements of weakness, and in time it
would fling the institution to its death.” He
expresses what has been the world’s opinion for
fifty years or more, but they seem no nearer
to solving this great problem than when they
first began. 
	The testimony of Bishop Tuttle should have
some weight. He testified that from his first
acquaintance with Brigham Young and the
"Mormons,” he had never been unfairly inter-
fered with. He gives his own ideas concern-
ing polygamy, and why it is such a “strength
to the Mormon system,” and says: “The ties of
kindred are very strong, and if we were Mor-
mons we should be very apt to do very much
the same thing.” He has manifested a Chris-
tian spirit, and certainly he ought to be be-
lieved, as he has lived in this city years enough
to become better acquainted with the people
than those who have been but transient visi-
tors, and have sought notoriety, by describing
“Life among the Mormons.”
	He gives one of the strongest testimonies to
the Godliness of Mormonism, though uninten-
tional on his part, but we accept it in that
light. It is no wonder to us that it is so hard
for other sects to convert adult “Mormons.”
Mormonism is a “marvel and a wonder,” but
its destiny is marked out in that ancient record,
the Bible, by inspired prophets, and seers, and
the day is here which so many longed to see,
but died without the sight.
	The same spirit and power that moved them 
to speak of things which they foresaw—
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith—whom the
Lord took while an untutored boy, before his
mind had been warped by the ideas and doc-
trines of men, that He could reveal His will
to the poor and the meek, who were to be
gathered from all nations, kindred, tongues
and people, and we see them flocking by
thousands to our standard, in fulfillment of the
Scriptures.
	There appears such a spirit of fearfulness,
especially among the ministers of the various
denominations, who seem aware of their ina-
bility to stop this work. But Jesus says, “My-
sheep will hear my voice,” and His shepherds
can be easily distinguished from those who
preach for hire and divine for money. They
go forth as commanded by Jesus and trust
Him as their paymaster when they have ful-
filled His command.
	There is one great peculiarity in Mormonism,
which may be noted. Those who have
adopted the faith of the Latter-day Saints,
never go back to enjoy their former religion,
but almost invariably fall into infidelity or
spiritualism. The most of this people have
been converted from the different sects, and
are well posted in the tenets of the various re-
ligious doctrines of the day, but when they
have received the light of this Gospel, that
which they had formerly received fades, and
becomes as a dim taper before the more glori-
ous light which penetrates and fills every part
to the exclusion of all others, which it casts
forever into the shadow of the past. The most-
illiterate “Mormon” is able to comprehend and
explain the principles which they have es-
poused, because they have received a portion
of that divine power that was enjoyed by the
ancient Saints. It brings with it all the


[Column 1]
﻿spiritual gifts and blessings of the Gospel of
Christ, instead of shutting up that fountain of
light and inspiration, from which i[-] is the
privilege of every soul to drink freely, without
money and without price, and contenting
themselves with inferior lights, or the little
that uninspired men may think proper to deal
out.
	The religion called Mormonism takes in all
that belongs to the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
while other churches receive only a part, and
add to it their own vagaries and still call
themselves Christians; and they hate and per-
secute those who have received the true light
which has driven away the darkness that had
shrouded their minds, in regard to this great
and glorious work, and which it would have
been impossible for them to comprehend, had
they still been contented to worship an un-
known God, without body parts or passions,
though we are plainly told in the Scriptures
that He begot Christ in the flesh, and that He
was the express image of His Father, differing
only in age and authority, and that He ate
and drank with His Saints, and taught His
Apostles all that He desired them to teach to
the world, and which, if obeyed, would eventu-
ally bring the human race up to that perfect 
standard, which means nothing more nor less
than the Godhead. This Gospel contains the
keys which unlock the mysteries that per-
tain to the past, present and future, but which
none can understand, nor obtain only by faith
and humility, with constant study, and the cul-
vation of the attributes of the Deity, which
He has implanted in every man and woman.
And they can advance or they can remain
in a state of ignorance. Satan has substituted
spiritualism for the true Gospel, to deceive
those who have a craving for the mysteries,
but have not the key which unlocks the true
mysteries, in which there is a substance and a
reality without fanaticism, or the religious
frenzy which follows other than the true and
genuine Gospel. We "can force no man to
heaven," and Satan is determined to prevent
all he can from finding tho true path, which
is so straight and narrow that few there will
be who will find it. 
	The glorious mysteries which this Gospel re-
veals, and are continually opening to our view,
as we advance in this mortal state, are calcu-
lated to strengthen the weak against temptaion,
and make them more willing to endure the
trials and persecutions, which they are called
to pass through for the Gospel's sake, than to
yield it up to gain the favor of the whole world.
This is the great problem, and which they can-
not solve, because they refuse to accept the
true key.
	The people of God were to be hated of all
men, and we have every reason to believe
this to be the true church, as we now see the
whole world arrayed against it. For this rea-
son we have more cause to rejoice than any
other people; but it is a sad thought that so
many evils have crept into the midst of a
community who have enjoyed such great bless-
ings.  But those who are walking in the true
light are more or less prepared for the events
which are now transpiring, and can hold up
their heads, and endure, knowing that it is only
for a little season, and by these things the pur-
poses of the Almighty will be more quickly
accomplished.	
	The fates, at present, seem against us, and
the clouds may still press down heavier, even
till they assume the blackness of midnight,
still the God of Our fathers will be in their
midst, as He has been from the beginning—
pouring oil upon the troubled waters, and
whispering peace to those who sought Him
early and found Him. Were the world able
to comprehend these things, or to  see the
wealth and exaltation that awaits His faithful
children, there would be a rush from every

[Column 2]
quarter to obtain it. But these things are
hidden "from the wise and prudent,” and only
revealed “unto babes,” who have held on to
every spark or beam which has lain within
their grasp, that they might attain to that per-
fection which is required before we can enter
or dwell in His holy presence.
	Not many days hence and the power of the
oppressor will be broken when the poor and
meek, whose garments have been made pure
through suffering, will reap their reward, and
all the remnants of Israel, and of Jacob, who
have been smitten and driven to the ends of
the earth, will be converted to the fulness of
the everlasting Gospel, and the hearts of
thousands and tens of thousands will be made
glad, and rejoice together in the blessings that
will be poured out upon Zion, when she comes
forth out of the wilderness and shines “forth
fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible
as an army with banners,”
	H. M. WHITNEY.
August 10th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ESSAY READ BEFORE Y. L. M. I. A.,

	BURNHAM, San Juan, July 24th, 1885.
MY DEAR FRIENDS:
	As my name is on the programme for a reci-
tation, I beg leave to read the following
thoughts instead:
	In endeavoring to find something for the
present time, one's mind is so bewildered with 
such a mixture of ideas that it is difficult to
gather the better ones together so that they
may be readily understood; however, as I claim
to be neither a speaker or a writer you will not
criticise my attempt with too much severity,
and I trust that the little here presented may
be done so by the Spirit of God, for I know
that without this same Spirit it is impossible to
interest.
	It is certainly time that we, as Latter-day
Saints, old or young, should be alive to the
duties devolving upon us as mothers, wives or
daughters. We each have our part to play in
the great drama of the present day, when the
prince of darkness, with his hosts infernal, are
plotting to destroy the Kingdom of God, and
tempt the Saints to break the covenants we
have made with each other and our Heavenly
Father; and unless we are humble, Satan will
have more or less power over us; but if we
strictly attend to every known duty and be
very prayerful, dedicating our all to God, we
will come off victorious, though the struggle 
may be long and hard. We may sometimes
feel, as His daughters, that we are given more
trials than we are able to overcome, and that
the sacrifices we are called to make are very
great, even more than we can bear; and they
would be, were we not led by that sweet spirit
that whispers peace and comfort to every heart.
What our Father has given us to bear is for
our eternal happiness and glory in the great
hereafter; and even here, were we to view it
from a truly unselfish standpoint, God requires
nothing at the hands of His children, man or
woman, only that which would be for their
greatest good, physically, intellectually and
spiritually, if we would accept it as given.
Then He has given us our weaknesses to over-
come so that we may not forget our dependence
on that mighty arm that never groweth weak.
We are also blest with faithful husbands, on
whom we can lean with perfect trust, knowing
that we will never be forsaken as long as they
remain true to the principles of the Gospel,
for deserting wives and innocent children is
not one of the creeds of Mormonism, and
though our best men are brought before courts,
where, it seems, Lucifer himself rules, where
our faith is mocked at, the sacred relationship

[Column 2]

we hold to each other is ridiculed, delicate
women insulted, innocence outraged, the in-
mates of loved homes driven as fugitives,
while the same courts will turn adrift the
adulterer, the murderer and the perpetrators
of the most damning crimes, and yet an intelli-
gent world will not say it is unjust; but we
know and say, that though prison walls may
stand between what God has united, and death
itself stare us in the face, or even come with
all its grim terrors, they cannot separate us
from our loved one only for a time, for our
union of heart and soul is an eternal tie,
bound by the power of heaven, and even hell,
with all its legions, cannot tear it asunder, if
we ourselves keep our obligations.
	Why our sisters of the world really pity us,
but they can never know how much more we
pity them, and would not give up our humble
faith in God and our quiet homes, for their
millions and dazzling splendor, for well we 
know it is a hollow mockery. The happiness
many of them feign, and the smooth surface,
often only covers a seething torrent of wretched-
ness beneath.
	We should feel, and I believe we do, that we
are a highly favored few. How could we live
and know that the fathers of our innocent
babes were destroyers of virtue, ruiners of
happy homes, and their very pretence of honor
was a living lie of the blackest hue? Yet some
who so kindly sympathize with us feel that the
man they call by the sacred name of husband
or father, is unworthy and their better
nature shrinks from the luring serpent;
but they are bound with the chains of Baby-
lon, which are linked with fear and pride, and
in time they learn to crush all the true in-
stincts of pure and true womanhood. While
we develop the love and desire for children,
many are bringing down the curse of an offend-
ed God on themselves, by destroying this in-
nocence before it is given birth.
	If, instead of condemning us without know-
ing why, they would study to find out the real
motives that govern our people, they could
partially understand that we willingly share
the love and comforts of our homes because it
is a command; that, being convinced of its
truth, we dare not disobey, and we have learned
that we can overcome our selfishness to the
extent that a willing obedience to this law will
bring greater joy than any other earthly condi-
tion could possibly do, and we can love the
ones chosen even as natural, and I believe
there is often an affection surpassing this; but
if we do let the evil one creep into our hearts
and magnify every fault, hatred and untold
misery will fill our bosoms, instead of that
sweet peace, which we can have if we choose.
I think I not only speak the feelings of the
few sisters in our isolated home, but all
through our fair Utah, that we, as a band of
sisters, are made more determined by the
present persecution to live nearer to God,
while we will do all we can to rear our child-
ren so they will follow in the footsteps of those 
who so nobly lead the way.
	The events of this memorable day, many
years ago, will ever remain green in the hearts
of the Saints, and they will bleed anew over
the sufferings of our noble pioneers, and the
trials and privations of our parents who set-
tled the once sterile, but now lovely Deseret.
	Shall we not strive to become worthy such
parents, and say, "God bless and protect them,
and our honored leaders, and all the loved
ones, from the clutches of that wicked one,
who is ever on the alert to lead us from the
principles of right and justice.
		MARY S. BURNHAM.


The number of American women exceeds
the entire foreign born population both men
and women, three to one.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS

[Written for the entertainment given of Mesa City, July
15th, 1885 in honor of the brethren who have been im-
prisoned at Yuma for obeying God's holy law.]

	The daughters of Zion, who believe in the law of celes-
tial marriage, and feel to firmly stand by their brethren in
keeping this law, and uphold them by their faith and
prayers.
	To all those, who have been, are now, or may be im-
mured in prison, or are exiles from their homes and loved
ones, because of their belief in, and practice of the holy law
which God has commanded His priesthood to obey, or they
shall be cut off from His presence.
		Brethren—
Among the noblest ones that ever graced the footstool
Of our God, with feelings akin to love we greet you;
And while we do rejoice that you again are free,
Our hearts are filled with praise to Him
Who rules above, and holds within His hands
The destinies of all.
		We feel to give great honor unto those
Who being called of God to bear His holy priesthood
On the earth, obedient, enter into covenant with Him
To keep His laws and serve Him all their days,
Willing to bear the cross that they may wear the crown.
	What nobler sight can we behold
Than that of men who firmly stand for principles,
God given, nor flinch, nor grow weak kneed,
But bear the penalty inflicted by oppressive laws,
With consciousness that they have done no wrong,
That they should be immured in prison house
Among the vile, condemned for crimes
		Of darkest dye.
	Like honor, also, unto those who wisely keep
Themselves aloof from those, their bitter foes,
Who, in the name of Law, twist and untwist,
And overturn their own decisions,
Determined to convict, at any cost,
All those whom they may get within their power.
		Can he forget, whose body bears
The marks of the assassin's ball that, when
The honor of a state was pledged, it was no safeguard
To God's chosen ones to shield them from the fiendish
	mob,
Who sought their lives, tho' innocent of crime.
		And shall he yield himself into their hands,
When well he knows the course they would pursue,
Tho' he has sought to honor unjust laws in his own life,
But has not sent his loved ones forth, nor broke
His sacred covenants with them?
		May God forbid,
	And shield the lives and liberty of those
Whom He has called to lead His people on the earth,
And give them power to counsel by His will
In things pertaining to the Zion of our God.
			From women's hearts,
		As virtuous, pure and true as ever lived upon the
	earth;
They who have lived this law, and they who have not,
Who know by revelation to themselves that 'tis God's law,
Which he will yet defend, and bring to nought
All those, who do oppose, and cause
That "all iniquity shall stop her mouth,"
While the "righteous shall rejoice,"
And from "affliction He shall set the poor on high,"
"And make Him families like a flock."
	From thousands such as these,
Daily and hourly prayers ascend to Zion's God,
For those who're called to bear these things,
That they have power to endure unto the end,
And firmly stand for every principle of right,
That when the Lord shall bring to pass His promises,
Then they may reign and rule in righteousness
		With Him.	T. L. H.
	Lehi, Arizona.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
			OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
			Concluded.
	We had considerable sickness that summer;
sometimes all but me were on the bed sick,and
it was all I could do sometimes, to keep up.
[Column 2]
But as the weather began to get cooler, we im-
proved in health. Our neighbors began to
move away- some went on to Winter Quarters,
others moved into the timber on the river bot-
tom, where fuel was plenty; and besides it
was much warmer for their cattle. The
weather began to be extremely cold, and we
were left quite alone, and the howling of the
wolves, as they prowled around at night, made
us feel very desolate and unprotected. We
made a fire in one end of the room, but there 
was not much wood women could pick up. It
was at Mt. Pisgah that I cut down my first and
last tree.  It certainly looked very much as 
though we should perish now, but the Lord
was still mindful of us.
	After the brethren had got their families
comfortably settled in the timber, they joined 
together and built us a small hut and moved
us into it.  They then hauled and chopped
wood, enough to last us all winter; they also
divided their cornfodder with us, so that we
had feed for our milk cow.  So after all  we 
spent a very comfortable and pleasant winter;
and I prya God, who is the father and friend
of the widow and orphan, and the desolate, to
bless those brethren who put forth a helping
hand to assist us in the great time of our need.
	In the spring wagons were sent from Winter
Quarters and we resumed our journey; and
when we arrived at the Missouri River,opposite
Winter Quarters,, and could look over and see
the camp of the Saints, it seemed as though
we had got almost home; for where the Saints
dwelll, whether it is in a city or a desert, a
palace or a hovel, there is my home; and may
God grant that my home may always be with
this people.
	When we crossed the river we found our
friends on the bank waiting for us.  It was a
happy meeting, for we all had endured much
suffering since our separation. Soon after my
arrival at Winter Quarters the pioneers started
fro the Rocky Mountains.  They were absent
through the summer, and returned in the fall;
and in the following spring they started with
their families to cross the plains.  We had a
long and tedious journey before us, and with
the heat and dust, the poor water, and plain
and scanty food, the journey could not be
otherwise than hard.  But I am not going to
give a description of this journey; I will leave
it for Sister Helen Mar Whitney, she can do
it so well.  But one might almost think that
she was having a pleasure trip, when compared
with some in other companies.  But however
long and tedious the trip, it came to an end.
When we got where we could look over into
the valley, it appeared as though it might be a
resting place for the weary exile; but as we
entered it looked more forbidding. Nothing
was to be seen but sagebrush and a few cotton-
wood trees along the course of City Creek. The
fort could be seen in the distance, and one
could not help but wonder where it was
possible to find so much timber as built the
fort. 
	We arrived in the valley in the fall of 1848,
making it almost three years that we were
pilgrims in the wilderness.  We necessarily
had to endure many privations and much suf-
fering.
	Now our journey was ended, but not our
trials; we were in a new country, and much
labor had to be done; our food and clothing
was scarce, and we were without almost every
comfort of life; and being so far away from
anywhere that we did not expect ever to have
anything again, except what we brought with
us, or such as would be raised or manufactured
here in the valley.  But God knows best how
to provide for His Saints, and His ways are
marvelous. When we look back and comtem-
plate the history of this Church from its
rise until the present time, who can doubt that
the hand of God has been over us, and pre-
[Column 3]
served and provided for us, and sustained us
in all our afflictions, and that everything has
tended for our best good, and in accomish-
int the purposes of the Almighty?  And al-
though our enemies have followed our footsteps,
and are still seeking our overthrow, yet the
same God reigns to-day that reigned forty and
fifty years ago, and He will turn and overturn,
until His purposes are all accomplished, and
the wicked can go no further than He permits.
When we entered the valley we had rooms in 
the fort, where I remained through the winter,
until the first day of March, 1849, when I
moved into a room in the house of Brother
Lorenzo D. Young; about nine o' clock that
evening my eldest daughter, Emily Augusta,
was born.  I have had seven children, two
boys and five girls. Five are living (1885.)
My Nauvoo boy died when he was about seven
years old; my youngest daughter, Luna, died
at seven months.
	In 1872 President Young deeded me a house
and lot in the Twelfth Ward, and before his
death he made provisions and arrangements
in his will for me to have a comfotable sup-
port while I love. I feel very grateful to
President Young and family for every kind-
ness they have shown me while sojourning
with them; and may the Lord reward all who
have extended to me their favors.
	I will now conclude this short sketch with
the blessing that I received here in this valley, 
under the hands of Uncle John Smith, on the
26th of June, 1849; it is as follows:
	Sister Emily, by virture of the holy priest-
hood, I place my hand upon thy head in the
name of Jesus of Nazareth, and seal upon thee
a patriarchal or father's blessing, for thou art
of the blood and lineage of Joseph, through
the loins of Ephraim, and a lawful heir to the
priesthood, which shall be conferred upon thee
in fulness in due time.  Thou hast seen trials
and afflictions, and thy heart has been weighted
down with sorrow; but the Lord loves thee,and
because of the integrity of thy heart He will
lift thee up.  Thou shalt be exalted to inherit
a kingdom and dominion that shall never end.
	Therefore, sister be patient, for the Lord
has great blessings in store for thee.  And I 
seal upon thee all the blessings of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob.
	Thy posterity shall be numerous, so they
cannot be numbered for multitude.  None
shall be greater in the house of Israel. Thou
shalt be blessed with riches, even all the riches
of heaven and earth; and thy name shall be
had in honorable remembrance in the house of
Israel till time shall be no more.  Thou shalt
be blessed with health and peace, and every
blessing which thy heart desires; shalt live un-
til thou art satisfied with life; shalt enjoy all
the blessings, beauties and glories of Zion;
shall come forth in the first resurrection with
all you father's family and friends that have
gone before thee, and inherit eternal lives; even
so.  Amen.


Y. L. M. I. A.

	We would call the attention of the Stake
Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. to the importance
of preparing their semi annual reports in good
time and we urge upon them the necessity of
having the report as perfect as possible and
especially to state the amount on hand at date
of last report, which is sometimes omitted. If
possible forward the reports to the secretary as
early as the 20th of September next in order
that there may be time to make the report of
the Young Ladies Associations creditable and
complete. We hope by publishing this call in 
time to obtain a report of the condition of
each stake organization of Y. L. M. I. A.
which is certainly desirable.
	LOUIE M. WELLS SECRETARY.
		Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
[----] [---] time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to [---]lar advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	On the same day that the funeral of Gen. Grant
was being solemnized in New York City memori-
al services were also held in all the large cities
throughout the United States. The funeral of
this great General and Ex-President was un-
doubtedly the grandest and most imposing of that
of any American however distinguished he may
have been. Full descriptions of the ceremonies
and complete reports of the addresses delivered
are published in the Eastern journals and news-
papers.
	Memorial services were performed for Gen.
Grant in Westminster Abbey on the 4th of August
No greater compliment could be paid to hi.
memory by the English people. Canon Ferrar
one of the most celebrated divines of modern
times delivered an address which embodied the
most delicate sentiments of affection and friend-
ship and admiration for his genius as a soldier in
battle and his devotion to his country in times of
peace. His own countrymen could scarcely do him
more justice or offer truer praise than the tribute
this eminent preacher paid to his goodness and
greatness.
	Preparations on quite a grand scale were begun
in this city at an early date, the matter being in
the hands of a committee of the G. A. R. The 
same day that the funeral of Gen. Grant took
place in New York, memorial services were held
in Liberty Park in this city in which thousands
of people joined. The procession was quite an
elaborate one, and made an imposing display as
it wended its way through the streets on the
route to the Park, with muffled drums and funeral
marches. All the principal personages were
seated on the platform which was quite handsome-
ly draped in black, enlivened here and there with
white garlands, wreaths, crosses and other orna-
ments of choice flowers were displayed,
crape and ribbon, black and white, were wound
around pillars and in suitable places giving the
platform a very handsome appearance as a tribute
of beauty as well as symbol of mourning.
	A very large and elegant painting of Gen.
Grant by Dan Wiggeland of this city was con-
spicuously placed at the back of the stand so as
to be noticable by all the people assembled. It
was heavily and gracefully draped in crape. An-
other smaller painting was on the speaker's table
which was tastefully draped in crape with ribbon
and flowers.
	Several bands of music were in attendance
disposed in different parts of the assembly and
played alternately. The first part of the pro-
cession arrived at the park about 11.30 and the
last after 12. Soon after Commander Hoffman
called the meeting to order and the Opera House
Band played in a very feeling and pathetic style
"Nearer my God to thee." Chaplain of the day
Rev. John Walker Jackson made the opening
prayer, at the close repeating the Lord's prayer
in which all the members of Grand Army of the
Republic joined.

[Column 2]

	Governor Murray was then introduced as Presi-
dent of the day and delivered the opening ad-
dress, a written one, after which he announced
the Ritual Service of the Grand Army to the
Record of the Dead by James B. McKean Post.
	At the command "Attention" from Commander
Hoffman the members of the G. A. R. all rose to
their feet and were asked by the Commander, for
what purpose was this meeting called, and also
if they had a record of the services of the hon-
ored dead in the cause of our country etc., to
which they replied in the affirmative and formally
and politely requested comrade Murray to read it.
Governor Murray then read The Record of the
Dead, a very graphically written and elaborate
paper containing historical data and incidents of
his military life also his presidential career and
closing with some telling paragraphs, laudatory
of his life and character as a soldier, a statesman
and a citizen of the world. At the close of the
reading Commander Hoffman said: "The record
is an honorable one, and as the memory of all
faithful soldiers of the Republic should be
cherished, and their record preserved. I direct
that it be placed in the archives of the Post for
future reference.
	The Ritual service of the G. A. R. by the
Chaplain responded to by comrades was the next
exercise in the order of the day, after which
Governor Ramsey gave a written speech very ap-
preciative and eulogistic of the great General and
his friendship for the man. Judge Bennett's was
the next written address and was more elaborate
in composition than any of the others. His man-
ner in delivering it was strikingly emotional. W.
C. Hall was next on the programme, his speech
was short and comprehensive.
	Hon. Arthur L. Thomas made the closing address,
and speaking without notes and in a very earnest
tone of voice with an impressive manner seemed
really the most inspirational of all the speeches
delivered. The Chaplain pronounced the bene-
diction and the exercises closed with music by
the band. The several bands played some very
inspiring music at intervals during the exercises
and altogether the gathering was a very creditable
one in every respect except for the entire absence
of vocal music which made one feel that some-
thing was lacking.
	The day was a perfect one and there was not the
slightest inharmony in anything to annoy or weary
those who assembled to pay a fitting tribute to the
honored dead.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Children's Primary Fair of this stake, will,
it is anticipated,be held in this city,about the time
of the Quarterly Conference in September. The
little folks in each Primary Association should be
making preparations so as to make a good show-
ing. The place of holding it has not yet been
decided upon,but due notice will be given through
the papers.
	We regret exceedingly to learn that Helen
Hunt Jackaon the celebrated author H. H. is re-
ported to be dying in San Francisco where she
has been declining in health for the past four
months. Mrs. Jackson is one of the most intelli-
gent women of modern times, and one of the
most charming women in manner and con-
versation. With a superior education and a
world-wide celebrity as a writer she has no such
affectation as many distinguished people display
in their association with the the people. Her work
and travels among the Indians was one that told
the story of her genuine feeling for the oppressed
her keen sense of injustice with which they had
been treated.
	We hope to hear that Mrs Jackson is recover-
ing for she is one of those whose life is valuable
to the world at large.

[Column 2]

	WE trust the sisters in the country settlements
as well as those in the city and throughout the
several Stakes of Zion will take notice of the an-
nouncement in this issue made of Dr. E. R.
Shipp's class in midwifery and will use their in-
fluence in behalf of medical students from the
vicinity in which they reside, that those who need
from time to time the attention of nurses and
physicians may have those in their own neighbor-
hoods capable of officiating under any circum-
stances. Dr. Shipp has had considerable ex-
perience in teaching and has a pleasant manner
of imparting instruction, and of adapting her
language to the comprehension of her students
using short and simple words and phrases easily
understood, instead of those difficult terms which
require so much explanation afterwards. She is
sympathetic in her nature and enters into the feel-
ings, desires and ambitions ot the students.
	It is an excellent opportunity for obtaintng
knowledge that can be applied for the good of
humanity and it is a profession for which the
world will always have a place. Young women
who wish to obtain knowledge of the human
organism would do well to attend these lectures
even if they never made other use of the intelli-
gence except in the matter of caring for themselves
and their own offspring. Dr. Shipp has proved
herself a thoroughly competent teacher, and ought 
to have a wide patronage.
	THE circular of the Brigham Young Academy
at Provo, of the tenth academic year has been
received and glancing through it we find every-
thing is taught there that it is desirable for the
young people to learn. Arts and Sciences music 
and needlework are included. There is also a
Theological Department conducted with the ut-
most care and there is a grand opportunity for
religious training which is a proper balance to 
all other studies. Professor Karl G. Maeser is
the principal of the institution. He has had a long
and wide experience as a teacher and is pro-
foundly thoughtful as well as educationally pro-
ficient on all subjects mental, moral and spiritual.
	WE have also received the circular of the 
Brigham Young College at Logan of the
eighth collegiate year. The circular contains a
historical sketch of the founding and progress of
the college since its commencement, also its re-
ligious features, and Preparatory,Normal, and ad-
vanced Courses and Graduation. Terms Vacations
and names of students of 1884-1885 and of those
who received certificates etc. Concluding Remarks 
upon the present capacities and facilities of the col- 
lege. Both these institutions offer excellent oppor-
tunities for the young people of the Territory boys
and girls alike and are situated in towns where there
are ample accomodations for students and where
provisions of all kinds are reasonably cheap.
Board costing only three dollars per week. It is
a source of congratulation to a new territory like
Utah to have three such fine institutions of'
learning as the Deseret University in Salt Lake
City, Brigham Young Academy in Provo and the
Brigham Young College in Logan, where all the
highest branches of learning are taught by teach-
ers eminently qualifiied for the positions they
have been chosen to fill.


WHY PLURAL MARRAIGE IS FOR-
			BIDDEEN IN THE BOOK OF 
					MORMON. 
					--------------
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I desire to submit a few thoughts suggested up-
on reading the article entitled "Some facts plainly-
set forth," published in numer 4, vol 14, of your
valuable paper.
	To obtain exact chronological dates of events 
that transpired as recorded in the Book of Mor-
mon is, perhaps, impossible, but a very close ap-
proximate can be arrived at.


[Column 1]

	﻿It was while dwelling in the valley of Lemuel
that the sons of Nephi, and also Zoram, the
former servant of Laban, took each one a wife of
the daughters of Ishmael, whose family had ac-
companied Lehi and his family into the wilderness,
there were exactly five men and five women who
were married at this time. (See I. Nephi,
chap. 16, verse 7.) The two sons of Ishmael
brought their families with them, but it is to be
supposed that they were of youthful age as neither
of their sisters were married until this time. These,
with Jacob and Joseph, who were afterwards born
to Lehi, with Sariah, their mother, and the sisters,
of whom mention is made in II. Nephi, chap. 5,
verse 6, together with Ishmael's wife—for he had
died in the wilderness—constituted the entire colo-
ny that took passage on board the vessel that con-
veyed them to the land of America. But a divis-
ion in the colony took place some time afterwards,
for we read that Nephi and his family, Sam and
his family, Zoram and his family, Jacob and Joseph,
his younger brethren, and Nephi's sisters (how
many is not mentioned) seperated from the rest
and became the people of Nephi, and afterwards
bore that name.
	Now, these people did not marry at the early
age we do today, but should they have done so, at the
time that Jacob was speaking concerning the sin
of whoredom among his people, there could not
possibly have been more than three generations of
married people, for it was immediately after the
death of Nephi that Jacob commences his record,
and starts out by saying that fifty-five years had
passed away since Lehi left Jerusalem, and in the
second book records: "The words which Jacob,
the brother of Nephi, spake unto the people of
Nephi, after the death of Nephi," a portion of
which was a denunciation of the sin of whoredom
indulged in by the people, as well as a reference
to a former command, that no man among them
should "take more than one wife."
	My object, in reviewing the early history of this
people, is to show that there could not have been
a great disparity in the sexes at this time, hence
the consistency of the command as given by God
to Lehi, (see Book of Jacob, chap. 3, verse 34,)
is very apparent. But for the crime of which
they were guilty. Jacob says they excused them-
selves "because of the things which were written
concerning David and Solomon, his son." What
was the sin of David? The Jewish record says:
"In no one thing did he sin against me, save in
the matter of Uriah, the Hittite." And the Proph-
et Nathan, when rebuking him, told him how the
Lord had given him many wivess, even the wives
of his master Saul, and further says, "If that had
been too little I would moreover have given
unto thee such and such things." This, then, was
the only sin of David, and is it not presumable,
that because God did not immediately destroy
David, but put away his sin for the time being,
that the people of Nephi took advantage of this
leniency to justify themselves in their wicked acts?
What was Solomon's sin? In marrying strange
women—taking them outside of the authority of
God, and these women led away his heart, inso-
much that to please them he burnt incense and
sacrificed to their Gods, which was an abomina-
tion to the Lord. Previous to this the Lord had
told Solomon that he would bless him above all
men if he would walk in the ways and keep the
statutes and commandments as his father, David,
had done. It is recorded of him, in connection
with his taking these strange women, "And Solo-
mon did evil in the sight of the Lord, and went
not fully after the Lord, as did David, his
father."
	Then, the sin of the Nephites, against which
Jacob spoke so forcibly, must have been either in
appropriating the wives of others, or in taking
wives outside of the marriage covenant, for it
would be impossible for a man to commit whore-
dom with wives God had given him, neither could

[Column 2]

the chastity of woman, about which Jacob spoke
as having been violated,be imperiled only outside
of that covenant.
	The law given to the Nephites confined a man
strictly to one wife, consequently no man of God,
no matter what authority he possessed, could have
given more than one wife to one man. Then, to
take more was a crime before God, and this was
the crime of which these men had been guilty, and
which Jacob denounced in such strong language.
It was this unrighteous conduct which broke the
hearts of these men's wives, and caused sorrow
and mourning to the fair daughters of the people.
How unlike the law that was given to Moses—to
protect plural wives in their rights of marriage;
also how unlike the action of Laban, which was
sanctioned by God, in giving his two daughters to
Jacob, and whose issue were mighty men, wield-
ing both kingly and priestly power.
	The Lord understood the purposes of His own
mind, when He gave the law limiting the men of
the Nephites to one wife, and He also understands
His purposes in commanding His people to-day to
take more than one wife, and as it was a sin
against God then to take more than one wife, we
would be equally culpable in rejecting the law
commanding plural marriage to-day. A late revela-
tion says, "By law are ye justified," and the re-
velation upon plural marriage says that the an-
cients were justified in taking more wives because
this was the law; and further, "And in nothing
did they sin, save in those things which they re-
ceived not of me." If I were writing for the bene-
fit of unbelievers, I would offer some other ex-
planations of this (seemingly ambiguous) passage
in the Book of Jacob, but suffice it to say that it
is made quite plain in the revelation on celestial
marriage, and it was a commandment given
specially to the people of Nephi for the accom-
plishment of God's own purposes, and related to
them exclusively, as did the building of an ark in
Noah's time, or the crossing of the Red Sea by
Israel especially related to them, and was for their
salvation in each instance. Unbelievers, fault-
finders and opponents of the truth, will take ad-
vantage of every technicality and will trip them-
selves upon the stumbling blocks that have ap-
parently been left by the Almighty for this very
purpose. But a true Latter-day Saint will not
cavil upon these points, for they know that there is
a most beautiful harmony and consistency in every
command given by God, and that they are exactly
adapted to the circumstances and condition of the
people, and the evil one knows this full well, too,
hence his increasing attempts to thwart the pur-
poses of the Almighty, and especially is this mani
fest in regard to plural or celestial marriage to-day
	Our enemies, who know nothing of the spirit
or genius of our religion will pick out and quote
such savings as that contained in the Book of
Jacob, that have no more reference to this dispen-
sation, or the law of the Lord as pertaining there-
to, than the law of Moses as given to ancient
Israel, would be aplicable to our condition to-day.
For the Lord (as intimated by Jacob He would)
has commanded His people in this last dispensa-
tion to take more than one wife to raise up seed
unto himself, and all the sophistical reasoning upon
the subject, nor a denial by any number of per-
sons, cannot alter the fact, for God's word "will
not return unto Him void, but will accomplish that
whereunto it has been given."

		J. E. TAYLOR.
	August 3rd, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. .S. AND Y. L. MEETING. 
	﻿The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 11th, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W.
Wilcox. Singing.  As the minutes of the last
meeting were not brought, minutes of the 5th,
Ward P. A. were read, and remarks were made
by the President on the condition of the people at,
the present time, and the outlopk, etc. 
Brief remarks were made by Sisters H.-M.
Whitney, M. A. Hyde, President of Relief Society 
Sanpete Stake, L. W. Kimball, M. W. Wilcox,B.
W. Smith, Hicks and Sinah Bishop; Sister Dyer
also spoke in tongues, and Sister Bishop gave the
interpretation. Sisters E. Paul and Dr. E. S.
Barney made instructive remarks, and a lady in 
the congregation spoke a few words, after which
President Horne reviewed what had been said,
and adjourned the meeting. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Sister Elizabeth Stevenson.

 Meeting at the same hour and place, on July
25th, Mrs, M. I. Horne presiding. After singing, 
prayer was offered by Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read by Miss Sarah
McGregor. Minutes of the P. A. from the 21st,
11th, 19th and 17th Wards were read, after which
Prest. Horne made some timely remarks, and was
followed by Mrs. E. B. Wells,who addressed most
of her remarks to the young.
	Mrs. Clara A. Cannon bore a good testimony,
and alluded to the imprisonment of her husband,
and that she was denied the privilege of visiting
him in prison, because she was a plural wife.
	Sister Julia Howe bore a good testimony. A
verse was then sung by the congregation, and
Sister Jane Fowler made a few remarks, and sang
a verse of a hymn.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke upon the things
transpiring at the present time, and to the young
in regard to purity of character.
	Sisters Dyer, Kettle, Wheeler, and others,
whose names were not known, made a few re-
marks.
	Sister Mary Smalie spoke very impressively of
her feelings at the present crisis, and referred to
those who were our enemies here, and had made
their money off the Mormons; thought it very
wrong to deal with them at all. She also said
she had seen three rainbows in the western sky
on Friday morning, about five o’clock; they were
very beautiful, and thought it a good omen.
	A sister, name not known, and Sisters Ann
Richards and Annie Snow, and one or two others,
bore faithful testimonies, and Prest Horne made a
few closing remarks and adjourned the meeting
for two weeks. Closed with singing. Prayer
by Sister H. M. Whitney.
		REORGANIZATION Y. L. M. I. A.
	A special meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. held in the
Eighth Ward meeting house July 9th 1885 for re-
organizing.Present by invitation Bishop E.F. Sheets
and Counselors McMurrinand Brockbank,arid Sis-
ters M. Dougal,Nellie Colebrook, E. S. Taylor and
our former president M. S. Leaver. The officers ap-
pointed are as follows: Mrs. Mary Pratt Young,
Prest., Mrs. Jeanett McMurrin and Miss S. A.
Hawkins, Counselors, Miss Eva Morten-
son Secretary, Miss Lizzie Chamberlain
Assistant Secretary, Miss Kate  How-
ard Treasurer. After a short programme, 
remarks were made by the invited guests. A vote
of thanks was then tendered Mrs. S. M. Leaver,
for the efficient manner in which she had held her
office and performed her duty.
		EVA MORTENSON, Secretary. -


NOTICE.
				 ---------
	As the time is near for drawing up reports for
the semi-annual conference, a few words of en-
couragment and instruction may be of benefit.
The great difficulties encountered by secretaries
keeping their books in a well balanced state is
realized, still, through perseverance and diligence,


it can be done, and much to our credit.  The branch
Secretary will better know how to settle her own
difficulties than the stake secretary will for her, and
they are advised to be very particular that their
reports accurately balance, even if forced, as it
must be brought to that condition at last, and the
evil will be less the earlier corrected.
	We wish to mention our feelings of satisfaction
and encouragement in the improvement observ-
able in the reports.  No secretary will ever re-
gret the time spent in learning to be a first class
book keeper.
	We have taken upon ourselves the trouble and
expense of sending to each stake president, at
least a short supply of new blanks, hoping to fa-
cilitate matters somewhat.  Many have not remit-
ted, and are requested to do so at earliest conveni-
ence, as more blanks are now needed.  We have
no central fund, and work on expectations of re-
turns.  Those desiring blanks after this will please
send to Dr. R. B. Pratt, over. Godbe and Pitts',
drug store; office hours from 1 to 6 p.m.
	We earnestly solicit every stake to be prompt
in sending in its report- at latest by the 20th of
September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


ANNOUNCEMENT.

	The first term of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's school in
midwifery will begin Oct. 1st, 1885, at her office,
No. 18, Main St. with greatly improved facilities
for education in this important branch.
	The already invaluable opportunities of  this
school are greatly enhanced by the late addition
of three complete sets of new charts, exemplify-
ing most accurately the subjects treated upon.
	The practical advantages are also increased by
the managers of the Deseret Hospital kindly con-
senting to Dr. E. R. Shipp's class making a
weekly visit to that institution, there receiving
clinical, or bedside instruction on the nursing, care
and treatment of the sick and injured.
	In addition several prominent physicians of
Salt Lake have signified their willingness to give
a number of lectures upon obstetrics and kindred
subjects.
	The members of this class will meet one even-
ing in every week to read medical periodicals, and
discuss chosen subjects, that they may thus be
kept posted on the medical literature of the day.
One main object kept in view is to utilize every
moment of time, in order to gain all the
knowledge possible in the time devoted to this
study. 
	The railroad officials have shown their benevo-
lence in granting students half fare to those ladies
attending this class.
	A full course of study consists of three terms of
twelve weeks each- the time being lengthened
from ten to twelve weeks, in order to give time
for the increased opportunities.  Two lessons will
be given every day with the addition of the oppor-
tunities above enumerated.
	Terms:  Twenty dollars for twelve weeks.
Books, ranging from twelve  to nineteen dollars,
according to the quality desired.  Those wishing
to join this class should communicate with Dr.
Shipp at their earliest convenience, it being neces-
sary to send east for books.


ANNIVERSARY GATHERING
	The Annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the Nineteenth Ward was held in the meeting
house on Tuesday, July 21st, at six o'clock. Three
tables were spread in the adjoining hall, and over
one hundred ladies sate down to a sumptuous re-
past.  Choicest fruits and beautiful flowers graced
the tables, and young girls in dainty muslin caps
and white dresses, fluttered about waiting upon
the tables, looking very charming, indeed. Mrs.
Mary Irvine, President of the Association, and
her Counselors, Miss Agnes Underwood and Miss
Bessie Deane, were seated at the head of one of
the tables.
	At half past seven p.m. meeting commenced in
the large hall, Mrs. Mary Irvine presiding. Opened
by singing, "Gladly Meeting."  Prayer by Elder
John Irvine.  Singing, "Did you think to pray."
Minutes of the last annual meeting were read and
approved; then an excellent opening address by
Coun. Agnes Underwood.
OPENING ADDRESS.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
	We have met here this evening, as you all know,
to celebrate the anniversary of our Young Ladies'
Association, an association which we hope to
make one of the best of its kind.
	And we feel, though we are only two years old,
our influence bas been felt, and that for good.
True, our progress may have been slow, but I
think the careful observer must admit that it has
been equally sure.  Our hope and aim is to here
form the characters of some of the noblest women
that have ever graced this fair earth, that future
generations may not only thank us for our weak
endeavors, but feel to bless him who was instru-
mental in the hands of God in organizing these
Associations.  All honor, then, to our lamented
Prophet, Brigham Young.  We can truly say,
"Though thou art absent thou art not forgot-
en."
	We, as Latter-day Saints, believe in woman’s
rights, and we mean to maintain them.  We claim
it is our right and our duty to become conversant
with the topics of the day, that we may be able to
cope with the oppression that may be brought up-
on us by our enemies—striving to become intelli-
gent and bright, and never neglecting home duties
—where the heart of every true woman should be.
We have material here for a noble structure, and
if property cared for will be one of which we can
be honestly proud.
	And in this Association we will, by the help of
our Heavenly Father, strive to learn and teach
those things that will enable us to associate with
the good and noble of this earth, and fit us to
dwell with the angels and the Gods; and we will
strive so to spend our time here, that we shall
be missed when we pass away, and those who
have been associated with us will be the better for
our influence. 

“May each rosy morn, dressed in mantles of peace,
Shed health o’er our dwellings and our blessings increase."
	A Recitation by Miss Emily Deane, "Jennie
McNeal;"  Organ Solo, Miss Vilate Nebeker;
Essay on Character, Miss Jane Albrand, which
contained some very excellent ideas; Song, Miss
Bessie Deane, “Forgive and Forget;” Lecture on
the Mind, Miss Ella Nebeker; one of the best
productions on the subject that we have ever
heard given, and would bear repeating in every
Association in the city.
	Brief addresses, upon subjects suitable to the
occasion, the elevation, improvement and educa-
tion of the youth of Zion, were then made by Sis-
ters M. Y. Dougal, Nellie Colebrook and E. S.
Taylor, after which  the “Song of the Seasons”
was rendered, and following that, remarks were
made by Sisters M. I. Horne and E. B. Wells;
then closing remarks by the President, who mani-
fested a deep and heartfelt interest in the ad-
vancement and progress of the young girls over
whom she presides.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “Sowing." Bene-
diction by Elder Henry Bywater.


WHAT OF SCIENCE?
	Would you suppose for a moment that per-
sons well educated, those who had arrived at
great attainments in science, could doubt the
existence of a God, an  alwise Ruler or Crea-
tor of this vast universe, with all its varieties,
which charm the eye and gladden the soul?
	I do not believe that any sane person would
become an infidel because of his education, un-
less he obtained it just to make a show and ac-
complish some special object. Such a charac-
ter would serve the God of this world and look
no higher, accordingly could not enjoy the in-
spiration which a higher aim would bring to
him.	
	But one who studies to benefit himself will
benefit others, and also appreciate every facul-
ty of mind and body which has been given
him, as also the fountain of light and intelli-
gence, from which knowledge is obtained and
through which those faculties are developed.
Could such a one doubt the existence of a
Creator? No!no! He would increase in love
and admiration as he advanced in science.
Knowing everything is governed by laws,
there must have been a great first cause or de-
signer, whose purposes are beyond our compre-
hension, yet not beyond the reach of obtaining
that intelligence if we live aright and persevere,
honestly to ourselves and our aspirations, ever
upward and onward. Then we gain little by
little, for such are our capacities.
	Only a short time ago a young lady
read to me a lecture by a reverend
gentleman, delivered in Brooklyn. He quoted
Scripture fluently, and correctly,too; but what
did he do with it? I listened with disgust
while he took passages given in the Old Testa-
ment by the prophets to govern society at that
time, and again in the days of Jesus and His
disciples, which every lover of true principle
venerates, and made them clash in the most
ridiculous manner. "Why," said the lady,
“does not he quote it correctly?'  “Well,” I
replied,‘I will answer you by asking a ques-
tion. The furniture in this room is all useful,
and ornamental, too. If I should take this
lamp and dash it at the mirror, and a chair at
the sewing machine and take the dishes and
dash them at everything else in the room, what
would be the result?” "Confusion,” she re-
plied. "Yes, and destruction, too,” said I”
“That lecture,” said I, “has the same effect on
the human mind. It may answer for fun and
pastime for those who are given up to frivoli-
ty, but it would lead to lunacy. It will con-
fuse, you will admit; you would expect him to
give you a more beautiful picture, but he
leaves you without anything to love or admire
in our Heavenly Father’s words; and yet, the
young and thoughtless will listen and drink
into such absurdities, and grow reckless. May
put young people become more sound in mind
and pure in principles, is my prayer.
	This scientific preacher has so perverted the
Bible that I would never wish to read it, if I
had not previously read if for myself, I am
thankful, however, that I have a knowledge of
its contents, and I know that this popular
scientific lecturer quotes correctly. But why
did he study it so thoroughly? Was it only
to pervert its sacred pages? for sacred it surely
is to those who have learned the two spirits—
the good and the evil. To those who know
the Lord hears and answers prayer as He did
in the days in which the Bible was written; to
those wno have been healed by the prayer of
faith, and have been blessed, even as Job was,
and suffered, also, almost as Job suffered, know-
ing not believing only, that this has been done
in wisdom to prove the faithful Saint, for such
may one well be called who lives in accord-
ance with the law of Christ. Such an one
learns for a surety that He is the same yester-
day, to-day and forever.  Those who lived be-
fore Christ learned the same lesson by obey-
ing the laws of God given to them, and thus
understood the struggle between good and evil;
accordingly they had their experience recorded
for the benefit of their children, and others 
who should come after.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Since this noted preacher has learned so
much of the spirit of the world, and how to
please the world, by recklessly destroying and
misconstruing that which was given us for
good, to keep our feet in the straight and
narrow path, he should learn as much of the
opposite spirit, and I would promise him if he
would be as diligent in the pursuit as he has
been in the other, he would be a wiser and a
better man. He might even become as great
as St. Paul was, if his desires are to serve God
in all that he does, as St. Paul did.
	My sincere prayer is that he may become
acquainted with that good spirit which the
Savior said belonged to little children. Had
he died when a child he would have inherited
a glory which he will lose if he does not re-
form and seek after the wisdom and intelli-
gence he so much needs. After rooting out
iniquity, he needs wisdom and intelligence to
give all things their proper value, and also
their proper place. When he can do this he
will find that he has not lived in vain; he will
then be so happy he will wish to live forever,
and the righteous have this promise, while the
wicked must taste the second death, because
they choose evil, though they were made good,
and choose to follow the workers of darkness,
in preference to those of light and greater in-
telligence. It may be that this lecturer will
tire in this pursuit and want something better.
	Too many of our young people have swal-
lowed this rubbish because the gilded bait was
science. We are all lovers of science, but
while we admire the principles which control,
and the laws which govern the universe, shall
we ignore the Author of all this stupendous
machinery, which moves in such perfect har-
mony? No! no! Those who know Him most
should admire and love Him best.
	The Bible has always been a source of
pleasure and satisfaction to me, because written
for our guidance when the opposite spirit ap-
pears, for we must inevitably meet the opposite
while in our sojourn here, and it strengthens
us if we know we are right. In the common
affairs of life we cannot always tell a servant
to do the same thing at  another time, but we act ac-
cording to circumstances, and our Heavenly
Father does the same, and all for the good of
His erring children.
	The Lord always gives light and intelligence
to a people whose hearts are right, and minds
pure before Him. And now, since there is a
people upon the earth who are determined to
serve Him to the best of their abilities, behold,
how much light has been given to the human
family in the last fifty years. Shall we not
acknowledge His hand in all this, or shall we
say, my own skill did it?
	If we cannot acknowledge the hand of an
alwise Parent in the discoveries of science to-
day, I fear that darkness will overwhelm us
again; and if it does it will be because of our
stupidity in not acknowledging the hand of
God in all things.
	A people who will not do this - what need
they expect, and in fact what do they deserve,
if they possess so much vanity that they take
all the glory to themselves? And again, the
Lord has promised that "in the last days He
would pour out His Spirit upon all flesh," etc.
I would advise those who wish to treat the
subject indifferently, to read the thirteenth
chapter of St. Matthew, beginning at the
thirty-eighth verse, and reflect.
	M. E. K.
	July 15, 1885.


R.S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	BEAR	LAKE	STAKE.
	Minutes of the Fourteenth Semi-annual
Conference of the Relief Society, held in St
Charles, July 11th, 1885, Prest. J.P. Lindsay
presiding. After the exercises of singing and
prayer, minutes of the previous conference
were read and accepted. 
	Prest. J. P. Lindsay made a few opening
remarks, in which she said, she regretted that
she had not visited the different societies this
summer; it was the first time she had failed
since they were organized.
	The different branches of Relief Society
were reported as follows: St. Charles, Prest.
Lizzie W. Rich; Fish Haven; Francis Howell;
Garden City, Ann Gook. Lake Town, Mrs. C.
Walstrom; Bloomington, Prest. Greenhalgh;
Paris 1st Ward, Coun. Margaret Sutton; 2nd
Ward, Ruth Sparks; Liberty, Jane Tanner;
Cottonwood, Sister Oakey. Randolph; Wood-
ruff, Bennington, Montpelier, Preston, George-
town and Soda Springs, not reported. The
statistical and financial report was then read
by the secretary.
	Sister Sarah I. Holmes made very interest
ing remarks, and said there was a difference
between exaltation and salvation. If we are
exalted we must obey a celestial law. Did not
feel satisfied with a salvation only; was desir-
ous to perform all the duties and responsibili-
ties devolving upon her, and to gain an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God.
	Sister Nancy E. Pugmire spoke of the great
responsibilities resting upon the mothers and
daughters in regard to examples,being set be-
fore the little ones around them.
	Sister Toomer spoke of some of the trials
she had passed through; thought we should
live so as to enjoy a portion of the spirit of
God, to enable us to give good counsel to our
sons and daughters.
	Prest. Lindsay made closing remarks—was
grateful for the good instruction which had
been given. Stated the cause of her Counselor,
Sister Collings, not being present, as she was
working in the Temple, and stated that the
Primary would meet in the afternoon. Singing.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. Benediction
by Elder Sutton.
	2 p.m.—adjourned session. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop J. A. Hunt. Sacrament adminis-
tered, during which, the hymn, "O God, the
Eternal Father," was sung; after which Coun.
L. M. Hart made a brief address, in which she
said, “We are ignored by the world and our,
rights are encroached upon more and more
every day, but if we are faithful all will be
well with us. There are some who think they
could do better if they had not been wronged,
or if some one else were in office; but we should
not let such considerations stand in the way of
our keeping the commands of God. Many of
you who are before me to-day have been
gathered from the four quarters of the earth,
and all for a similar purpose. The finger of
scorn is pointed at us, and many are cast into
prison for their religion."
	Sister Amy Cook compared our condition
now with that in the early rise of the Church,
and said, “Although their trials were great
they did not feel to falter or turn back again
to their homes in the old world. We are to
be tried as gold seven times in a furnace.”
Bore a faithful testimony.
	Prest. Lindsay said she often thought if
this had not been the Church and kingdom of
God she never could have had the strength to
hold her position in the Church, or stand before
so many people. If we put our time to good
use we can do more than we think we can. We
have got to overcome our selfishness. We
cannot live in the law of celestial marriage,
and live in peace; unless we have the Spirit of
God.” She felt it to be a sacred principle.
	'The time has come that we must go forward
or backward; we cannot stand still. I do not
know what we would be good for if we were
never tried. We should try to be-self-sustain-
ing, for the time will come when we will have
to be. We should keep our means among our
people; we should not sustain those who are tak-
ing from us all our rights and liberties; we must
live by faith, and let our works correspond.
We were told that when the Temple was com-
pleted our mission would be to attend to the
poor and the sick; but besides this, we should
try and assist in building the Stake Taber-
nacle.” Wished to remind the sisters about
saving grain; did not wish to slacken in this
labor. Believed the predictions that had been
given about the famine, “and in as much as
the prospects are good for an aoundant har-
vest, let us do all we can toward saving grain.
God will let our enemies go as far as He sees
fit in His wisdom. We must examine our-
selves and see if we are Saints in very deed; it
is through sacrifice and affliction that we are
brought to be worthy of the blessings of hea-
ven.
	The stake stationery account was read by
the secretary, when it was moved and second-
ed that each settlement donate the amount al-
lotted to them each year, and send it to the
Corresponding Secretary, Julia Budge.
	Bishop J. A. Hunt presented the presiding
officers of the stake and the different branches
of the Relief Society, which were sustained by
those present. The Bishop stated that be had
highly edified in listening to the instruc-
tions that had been given. We should be dili-
gent in our prayers, in our donations, in look-
ing after the poor, the sick and endeavoring to
comfort those in trouble. Felt that we had had
a good time in our conference. 
	Bishop Wm. West felt to endorse what had
been said; had long been convinced that the
young ladies could have a great influence with
the young gentlemen. "There is nothing to
look forward to with more pleasure than the
improvement of our sons and daughters.”
Bore a testimony to the good time we had had
in conference.
	Conference adjourned until the second
Saturday and Sunday in January. Choir sang
an anthem—“The Lord Reigneth.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Wm. M. Allred.
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec.,
		JULIA BUDGE, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:

   If I am not intruding too much I would like
to add my testimony to that of Lizzie B's
"Thoughts," in the EXPONENT of May 1st.
If any of my young sisters are about to marry
a Gentile, and have not read her "Thoughts"
--either in Zion or elsewhere--I entreat them
in all earnestness to get the article and study
it, and turn back before it is too late. If they
do not they will have cause to repent in sack
cloth and ashes.
   My dear young Sisters, these are not
sketches of the imagination, but the living
truth, and I would that you could all be saved
from the heart-aches and terrible agonies that
none on earth know except those who have
trod the same path of disobedience.
   Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
her people, and those who have fallen by the
wayside, that their eyes may be opened, so
that they may rise up with renewed strength
and determination to have their lamps trimmed
and burning, before the bridegroom comes and
shuts the door and to them says, "Depart, I
know ye not,"
				I am Yours truly,
							ANN HARDY.
	Council Bluffs, Iowa.


The first women's hospital in China has
been opened at Shanghai. It is called the
Margaret Wilson Memorial Hospital.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


TELL YOUR MOTHER.

It is only when girls are known to conceal
their doings from their mother that they become
targets for the shafts of scandal. Innocent
faults are always condoned by kind mothers,
who know that they were prone to mistakes
when they were young, and a girl will not do
anything very culpable if she is sure to keep
no secrets from her mother. Many a woman
now looks back upon her past life and sees
that had she been compelled to tell her mother
of all that occurred to her she would ahve es-
caped sin and sorrow. It is said that young
girls talk too much about themselves, but it is
far better to do that than to tell too little, and
to harbor secrets which may lead to deplorable
consequences. It is the little rift in the lute
that spoils the music, and it is these little de-
fects of character that lead to some of the 
greatest evils of life.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Mohammedan university 900 years older
than Oxford is still flourishing at Cairo as in
the days of Arabian conquests. It contains
but one room, the floor is paved, and the roof
is supported by 400 columns. 
	The Woman's Congress is to be held in Des
Moines, October 6, 7, and 8, next. The
annual meeting of the American Woman Suf-
frage Association will follow the next week at
Minneapolis. This proximity of time will
give opportunity to attend both meetings.

	A plan has been devised and it
is pronounced practicable, for connect-
ing Paris and London by pneumatic tubes.
through which telegrabms and parcels up to
eleven pounds in weight may be transmitted.
The time for transmission is guaranteed not
to exceed one hour.	

	Juliano de Souza, the chief of the semi-
royal State of Wydah, who possesses a fully
equipped battalion of women warriors, is a tall
broad-chested man, with a brownish complex-
ion and striking face. Souza's son was edu-
cated in an English boarding-school, and was
married by a French priest, although the
king is a fetich-worshipper. His six thousand
Amazons are nominally his wives, and they
form a body-guard which is said to be superior
to the regular soldiers in courage, discipline,
and loyalty.—Harper's.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of our dear friend and sister, Lucinda Busenbark
Monroe, wife or Major M. Monroe. She passed into her
eternal rest on the 18th day of June, at twenty mintues to
three o'clock a.m., 1885, at her daughter's residence in
Providence, Cache Co. Sister Lucinda was born on the
29th day of April, 1838. at - Niagra Co., N. Y.
	She was First Counselor in our Relief Society, and
Second Counselor in our Primary. She was a faithful wife
and mother, and a true Latter-day Saint. She was loved
and respected by all who knew her. She has been a long
sufferer, and her faith and endurance were remarkable.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, The alwise Father has seen fit to remove our
dear sister, Lucinda Busenbark Monroe, from this sphere
of action to a more exalted one above, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in the
Clifton Ward, do deeply mourn her loss, and that we
cherish her memory, and emulate her good example.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a good wife, mother and
sister.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the


WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that they be placed upon our
Relief Society record.
		JANE M. HOWELL,
		ELIZABETH W. HOWELL, 
		SARAH E. BINGHAM, 
		KITTIE E. DIXON,
		SARAH E. HOWELL. 
			D. E. DUDLEY, Rec. Sec.


OBITUARIES. 

	It is our painful duty to record the deaths of Claymore,
who departed this life July 3rd, 1885, also Parley, who
breathed his last July 5th, 1885, sons of John. F. and
Elizabeth Snedaker.
	They were faithful members of our society, always ready
to perform every duty. They were beloved by all their as-
sociates and friends, who grieve their loss, but not without
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Dear children, we miss you from our midst, but you
have left an influence that will be felt for good by those
whom you have left. Your knowledge far exceeded your
years, and you have gone to perform a work behind the
vail.
	Our deepest sympathy is extended to Brother Snedaker
and family, and we pray the Lord will comfort their heart
in their great distress.
				FRANCES HANSON, President. 
				H. V. CARLISLE, Secretary.
Mill Creek Ward, 3rd District Primary Association.

	It is the painful duty of the Eighth Ward Relief Society
to record the death of another sister, who has labored with
us as a teacher many years- Sister Mary Golightly. Her
death was very unexpected. She leaves a son and daugh-
ter to mourn her loss. She was a kind and indulgent
mother. By her death the children are orphans, the
father having died many years ago.
	We feel to deeply sympathize with the bereaved ones,
praying God to protect their youthful steps in the paths of
virtue and peace. May they prove faithful to the principles
of the Gospel, which she faithfully taught them. 
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary Go-
lightly, who departed this life August 2nd, 1885. 
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to remove
by death our beloved sister, we, the sisters of the Eighth
Ward Relief Society
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sister
the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher, that we
deeply sympathize with the bereaved family in the loss of
an affectionate mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
minutes, a copy be presented to the bereaved family, also
to the EXPONENT for publication. 
			ESTHER B. FLETCHER, Prest.
			CATHERINE PALMER,
			JANE COWAN, Counselors.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As members of the Burrville Relief Society, it is our
painful duty to inform you of the death of our beloved
sister and esteemed fellow laborer, Sarah Jane Burr Clow-
ard, who departed this life on the 14th of July, 1885. De-
ceased was born on the 18th of July, 1855, in Salt Lake
City, Utah; was the daughter of Charles C. Burr, and
Sarah Sloat Burr, and wife of George A. Cloward.
	Born and reared in the Church, she was faithful and true
as daughter, wife, mother, and as a Latter-day Saint. She
was the mother of six children, three of whom are liv-
ing.
	The following Preamble and Resolutions were unanimous-
ly odopted by our Society. 
	Whereas, our beloved sister, Second Counselor, Sarah
Jane Burr Cloward, in consequence of the falling in of the
roof of a house at Fish Lake, on Tuesday, June 30th, met
with injuries which resulted in her death on the 14th of
July, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we deeply mourn her loss as a wise
counselor, an affectionate sister and a faithful, devoted and
consistent co-laborer with us in Zion's cause; but while we
mourn her loss we, by our faith and confidence in God,
have the assurance that our loss is her gain, and that by
virtue of her course as a daughter of Zion, she will rise in
the morning of the first resurrection to enjoy the blessings,
promises, powers and glory of those who, having kept the
faith, have endured to the end. 
	Resolved, That a copy of this Preamble and these Reso-


lutions be forwarded to Sister Cloward's parents, and to
her husband, and that they be forwarded to the EXPONENT
for publication.	Faithfully yours,
				SARAH BURR, President
				ANNA ANDERSEN, 1st Counselor,
				EVA STARR, Secretary.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
		Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
				MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address,  DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 14. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH; SEPTEMBER 1, 1885. 		No. 7.


A LITTLE GIRL’S VIEW OF THE MOR-
		MON QUESTION.
I’m a daughter of Utah for here I was born;
I am gay and light-hearted, and bright as the morn.
I don’t quite remember the dreary old days
When crickets and grasshoppers, black ones and grays,
Ate up the potatoes, the barley and wheat,
And left the Pioneers very little do eat.

I can't say I know for myself, understand,
How their children went barefoot all over the land,
How meat was unknown for three-fourths of the year,
And frost took the corn ere it reached roasting ear,
How wild roots and berries were hunted for food,
And men went by twos with their guns after wood.

Before I was born all these things passed away:
Our fathers and mothers held starvation at bay,
They planted the shadetrees, the rattlesnakes killed,
And built some large granaries and got them well filled.
And railroads and telegraphs, too, they have made.
And of the poor Indians are no more afraid.

Schoolhouses and churches I see everywhere,
Wherever I turn all looks pleasant and fair;
The old folks are cheerful, after all they have done,
And the children, I tell you, are jolly as fun;
The good times we have can never be told,
Oh often I wish I might never grow old!

I mentioned schoolhouses—well I’ve learned to read—
For books and newspapers, I have a great greed;
But some things I read make me feel very sad.
For to leave a poor baby, all alone in the night,
On somebody’s doorstep, can never be right.

And when the folks living there wont take it in,
But send it on further, I think that's a sin;
And when of such children a hundred or more
Are sent to one place just built for the poor,
I think that the fathers and mothers out there
Are nothing like ours, and I’m glad I live here.

I read of poor children who live in the street,
Except what they beg for they've nothing to eat.
No parents or friends to surround them with care,
And only the raggedest clothing to wear;
And I wish, Oh I wish! they to Utah could come,
For I know in a week each would find a good home.

I’ve heard that some folks call the Mormons, a set
Of dreadfully wicked, bad people; and yet
I don't hear them quarrel and mention bad names,
Tell lies and the name of our Maker profane;
They work and they study, to God bow the knee,
And love boys and girls; and that satisfies me.
								LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			HOME.
	It has been very wisely remarked that in
order to fully appreciate the blessing and
comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to
be deprived of them for a time. Who can so
much appreciate the cheerful home fireside,
the association with parents and friends, as
those who have been  called to face the hard, cruel
world alone, away from the kind, cheerful
faces and helping hands of the loved ones?
Home is the haven of rest to which we flee
when the day's work is done. Here we can
rest in quietness and peace; with none to mo-
lest or disturb us, and where we can always
find comfort and assistance when needed
	What is so cheerful a sight as to see father,
mother, brothers and sisters surrounding the
bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the
other's love, and all contend with their lot?
I look back with much pleasure to some pleas-

[Column 2]
ant home scenes in which I have participated
and think of the many cheerful winter eve-
nings spent in my girlhood, when seated with
my dear ones around the large open fireplace,
piled high with the crackling logs, blazing and
dancing lighting up the faces of that happy
group, I have listened for hours to interesting
anecdotes and sad experiences of my parents,
which they took pleasure in relating for our
amusement and edification, pointing out little
instances here and there in their experience,
which we could profit by and improve upon.
	It is to this period of life we refer with
sweet and tender memories, and ineffaceable
impressions are made upon the mind, which in-
fluence very materially the thoughts and deeds
of more mature years.
	Home is. of all places on earth, the spot
which should approach nearest to what we be-
lieve heaven to be, and the laws and princi-
ples which result in making that the coveted
boon of mortal existence, and to which all
look forward as the reward of patient toil,
are those which should enter largely into the
formation or government of the earthly home,
so far as human beings understand and apply
them. It is said, and reflection and reason
corroborate the statement, that "order is heav-
en's first law." So also should it be the first law
in the home. Where there is disorder and
confusion the Spirit of God cannot abide, and
peace, love and happiness cannot be found.
The old adage, "A place for everything and
everything in its place," is a homely one, but
it is one that effects materially the good order
of a home and the joy of its inhabitants.
	Again we believe that selfishness must be
rooted from the heart, the temper brought un-
der control, and all the baser elements of
our nature brought into subjection, and charity,
brotherly love, kindness, and all the virtues
highly cultivated, ere we can hope to find a
place in the habitation of our Heavenly Father;
so also should the same evils be overcome, the
same virtue substituted therefor, in the
earthly home, if we desire or expect it to be
the haven of rest, the peaceful, happy abode
which the name of home should ever imply.
And this can only be accomplished by the in-
dividual efforts of every member of the house-
hold.
	There is one thing that should be especially
cultivated in the home, and that is refinement
- good language, gentle, kind manners, respect
for the feelings and desires of others - and every-
thing which is contrary to this, or would tend to
coarseness or vulgarity, should be banished
far from the heart and home, and never al-
lowed to abide for a single moment under its
roof.
	There is nothing that upsets a home, and
causes more discontent and dissatisfaction there-
in than the evil which we find very prevalent,
I regret to say, of scolding, fretting and fault-
finding. I have been in many homes where
everything was scrupulously neat and clean,
the members of the household were intelli-
gent and refined, and yet I have felt thankful
when my visit was ended and it was time to
leave the house. And why? Because the
mother (which is often the case) or some one
of the family, was scolding, fretting, or find-
ing fault with some one or something, until I
felt weary and glad to leave; otherwise I should
have enjoyed prolonging my visit, as ofttimes
the associations with the family and inter-
change of ideas was pleasant and agreeable.

[Column 3]
I do not fear to say that to a greater or less
degree this failing is indulged in the majority
of homes, and has been the cause of much
misery and unhappiness, for if a visitor of a
few hours can feel the unpleasant influence,
how much more effect must it have upon those
who daily experience it. As a natural conse-
quence, it deadens the sensitive feelings, hard-
ens the heart, and to a deplorable extent ban-
ishes love and unity of feelings from the home
circle in which it is indulged. I have known
instances where parents have wondered why
their children were desirous of leaving home,
why they seemed to find more pleasure in other
places than their own homes, when their pa-
rents would do almost anything to contribute
to their amusement. Mothers, the trouble lies
mainly in this fact that I have mentioned.
And often, quite often, very serious results have
occurred through this too prevalent, though
often unconcious error.
	So much depends upon the mother's influ-
ence, and next to her, the daughter's and sis-
ters in making the home pleasant and attrac-
tive, that I felt the subject would be a good
and suitable one for an essay for the Young
Ladies Association. And as the subject is an
important one, and one, too, that opens into a
field of thought that is almost endless, I trust
these few lines and the hints thrown out, may
spring forth and result in good to us all.
							M. H. T.


AN OCEAN VOYAGE.

   It always makes a great difference as to what
the circumstances are under which a thing is
written. You have asked for a description of an
ocean voyage. Here are two equally truthful,
but vastly different as the feelings of the writer
were different. The first was written mid-
ocean. The second while sailing up the chan-
nel, when the day was warm, the sea smooth
and the outlines of  land were plainly visible.
				No 1.
   The romantic never tire reading of the
beauties of the ocean. Yet even as good a
thing as the sea, becomes monotonous after a
time. One who has been eight or nine days
on the water, without friends and with very
few agreeable companions is decidedly apt to
sigh for a sight of land--for one more look at
hills and valleys, for wooded heights looking
far into the azure sky, or even for the bare
and brown and barren soil, and the desire for
a sight of mother earth is materially heightened
by the sensation peculiar to those who have
not been blessed with what travelers call "sea
legs," but what might more appropriately be
termed a "sea," or, using a synonym, a "cast-
iron stomach." The rapture of a sea voyage
would doubtless be greatly enhanced were one
conscious of the power to land at his sweet
will; but the enforced agony is the "rub," and
it is this that causes the weary watcher of the
wave to chafe. Byron was right, and one can
heartily endorse his utterances, when is cor-
rectly accented the oft quoted passage:

	There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore;
	There is society where none intrudes
		By the deep sea, and music in its roar."

   The rapture of the ocean is strictly con-
fined to the shore. "A life on the ocean wave"
is no doubt a very delightful thing to those who


[Column 1]
enjoy that sort of thing; but even on a fine
day, with a smooth sea, it is difficult for the
internal man to picture anything that is
beautiful.  One stands in the boat gazing about
him, his vision limited by the uniting of sea
and sky at a given distance,the vessel being the
very centre of what appears to be a large dish
in the concave side of which we are flounder-
ing about. It is true, the overpowering monot-
ony is broken at times by the appearance of
another sail in the dish, and the joy of the
veriest old "sea dog" at any relief whatever
from the prevailing monotony is to be seen in 
the alacrity with which he heads himself about
so as to get a fully view of the stranger. An ocean
voyage may be very tame or very exciting as
the circumstances make it. It might be a very
pleasant one and yet lacking in incidents of
especial interest or it may be fully of interest,
and anything but pleasant. Heavy storms; an
accident, or the too imminent approach to ice-
berg- those diamond mountains, glistening and
sparkling in the sunlight or glimmering and
shimmering in the full light of the moon, may
give life to the event and make it ever memora
ble. For my part, however. I had rather be
on shore and send some one out tnto the pond
to stir up a commotion when I wanted to see
the ocean in its wildest merriest mood. Talk
about the varying mood of the sea! The only
variation and (it is as anything but of frequent
occurrence) is to see it smooth. It is either
rough or smooth, or " 'alf hand 'alf." So far as
any difference in appearance is concerned, one
might as well be in  prison for three months
as on the ocean for a like period when there is
no land visible. Before one goes to bed at 
night he takes a fond farewell look at the
watery dish; arising the following morning he
gazes out upon the same old watery platter, a
few waves having perhaps come to be disjointed
through the night. But for the knowledge
that a given number of hours have elapsed,
one is unconscious of the fact that any change
in position has been made or any advance se-
cured.
	For several days, at least, nearly all the
passengers are in their cabins "bleaching out."
They come up on a fine day only to succumb
again when the sea begins to get stirred up.
There is a look of fiendish delight in
the eyes of the ship's officers at the "much
better, thanks" from the white and bloodless
lips, in response to the gruff, "how are you
'smorning?" while the gastly smile of the gulping
passenger seems to afford a degree of pleasure
not exceeded by the prospects of a rattling
good breakfast. There is always a warm, oily,
greasy smell about the ship that makes a fellow
feel as though it were a well of lobelia. The
sea itself for three or four days, has a nauseat-
ing odor, which sets the internal apparatus
a-quivering. A person must have a cast-iron
stomach, anyhow, to endure the perfume of
the cabin for the first four days, and when he
comes off deck he has to dash for his room as
though pursued by demons lest he should be
caught in "the act." I will back one good
whiff from the steerage against the best known
medicine in the world as an emetic. It is
warranted to upset the stoutest stomach with-
in 36 hours, and keep it upset for a considera-
ble length of time.
	It is entertaining to note the proneness, one
might say fondness of passengers (who have
been conspicuously absent during meal hours
and from the deck in daylight) for the “shades
of evening”. The faster these fall the more
rapidly do the bowels of the ship deliver up
those who have sought its seclusion in the day.
One sees male and female convulsively grasp
ing the cabin companionway railing, while afar
away "oh give me back 'me' native heath, I
never more will roam the mighty deep" sort of a
look o’erspreads their pale and emaciated
features. In the less aristocratic quarter of
the vessel, the boat side seems to be the popu-

[Column 2]
lar resort during the dark watches of the night;
ever and anon one or another of these hang-
ing over, seem to have discovered something
of living- of surpassing interest in the waves
beneath. One often hears a sea voyave recom-
mended for persons suffering from a complica-
tion of diseases. There is little doubt of its
efficacy. What is left of the individual after
it is over ought to be healthy. It partakes of
the nature of the toothache- all other evils
are swallowed up in it, but the cure is infinite
ly worse than the disease. Oh, for about two
inches of land if a fellow only had it in his
pocket. This may sound like a joke, but the
following extracts from the dairy of a very "dear
friend" of mine will tell the tale: 'March 24
sailed from New York. Taken sick 7 hours
after starting. March 25, sick. March 26,
sick. March 27, crawled up on deck, but feel
very bad. March 28, fine day, feel better.
March 29, a little rough, sick again. March
30, feel fine. March 31, actually want to eat.
April 1, rough again and sick again. April 2,
very sick until land is sighted; get up and feel
way up. April 3, nothing like an ocean voyage
after all- at least I hope there isn't. On land
once more. Oh joy, oh rapture."
	No. 2. 
	"The sea! The sea!" Oh, glorious sea! Ever
flowing, ever throbbing with new pulsations.

	"It plays with the clouds, 
	It mocks the skies
	Or like a cradles creature lies."

	Calm and placid as a zephyr-swept lake;
leaping in frolic, or heaving mountain high,
there is perpetual variation as there is forever
unrest in the ocean. "Oh, restless sea!” I
have read of the deep green of the ocean,
heard it referred to in times of ecstacy, and have
looked for it while upon the way, day after
day, but never saw it until now. From New
York until the shores of Ireland came in
view, the water has been a dark, slaty hue;
save momentarily when the wind, catching and
breaking the crest of passing wave into a veil
of whitest and purest spray would fling it
athwart another flying wave, with whose
depths it would gradually sink, revealing as it
faded from sight, all the colors of the rainbow,
the varied, brightened and incandescent tints
of the opal and quartz crystal- dancing for a
few moments in the full sunlight, gladdening
the heart and filling the eye with indescriba-
ble radiance, and then passing away forever.
There is beauty, poetry, sublimity and always
music in the ocean. There is beauty when the
day is full of sunshine; when the night is rich with
the light of the silvery moon; when the flashing
of the waves against the sides of the onward go-
ing boat beat time and produce melody and
rhythm incomparable - the music of nature.
There is sublimity, there is majesty when the
sea, lashed to a fury, leaps mountain high,
and the mighty waves fling themselves in mad-
dened wrath against the struggling ship, until
she quivers again as if in anger, the while a
yawning gulf opens before us on either side.
How the bosom swells with confidence, and the
pride of mankind thrills through the being
to see the toy- this child of the hand of man—
right and rise in majesty and grace and
strength, seeming to show contemptuous defi-
ance for the furious lashing of the mighty
wave, Then is it grand, majestic, sublime and
there is an anthem in the roar that swells the
proud and exlutant heart and finds an echo in
in the whole being. There is poetry in the
ocean when white capped waves chase white
capped waves, when they dance in the sunlight,
clash arms; rush at each other as if in anger,
never resting, still pursuing, still evading as
far as the ever unsatisfied eye can see. And
at night there is a sublimity, softened by the
shadowed hours, in the deep and dreamy fancies
awakened in the mind and echoed in the heart

[Column 3]
by watching the dark smoke as it emerges from
the high funnel and glides noiselessly into the
night air; and by the fresh breeze is wafted in-
to fantastic forms, recalling the dread genii of
tales of fairy land and of the "Arabian nights."
There is a tenderness incomparable when the
waves murmur like gentle winds stealing
through leaf-hidden trees, with green and
dancing sunlight reflected in a myriad directions
as from a shattered glass, while the warm, sun-
lit sky arches low till wave and heaven meet
in a fond, and one could wish indissoluble em-
brace, with blue sky and blue wave abounding;
when the moon floods the air and sea with a serene
and hallowed glory, and the track along the
wave is as the shimmering hoar frost glisten-
ing in the moonlit air of a winter's night, or
when on a rugged shore, the breakers rise
slowly up like spirits robed in spotless white,
lifting higher and higher and higher, until,
breaking into a multitude of spires, pinnacles
and minarets, they gently subside into the
wave only to give place to other forms equally
as fantastic; whenever, at whatever hour, in any
mood and at all times, the ocean is grand,
beautiful, sublime.
	About 2 o'clock on the ninth day the coast
of Ireland became visible - and as we ap-
proached the shore, the water, which had been
pretty rough grew gradually smooth. Now,
for the first time, I saw the green of the ocean
- the green of poet and of painter. We
could see the thatched roofs in places and the
fields separated by hedges, storm clouds were
passing over the Island pouring out their
grateful drops, as one often sees when in our
moutain home. Nothing could be more
beautiful. The evening came on calm and
lovely. The sun huug low over the wave in
the west. A fleecy cloud obscured its stronger
rays like a light and airy veil, and filled the
air with warmest tints. The blue sky arched
over; the calm, green wave beneath. The
vessel glided on; the waves scarce make a
ripple. As the sun reaches the horizon, the
sea before us is filled with tiny sails dancing
on the unbroken bosom of the water; they are
countless in number and their sails of tan-
bark hue, are spead out to catch the fitful
and almost imperceptible breeze. We are
prssing through the Irish mackerel fleet; some-
times the boats are so close that their inmates
salute us, sometimes afar off dancing in the
waves in the calm and soothing eventide. The
sun a huge molten ball, sinks into the western
water, taking with it the burning track of
light that lay along the sea, and the words of
Moore’s incomparable song involuntarily
break forth.
	“How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
	And sunbeams melt along the silent sea;
	For thee, sweet dreams of other days arise,
	And mem'ry breaths her vesper sigh to thee.

	And, as I watch the line of light that plays,
	Along the smooth wave toward the burning west,
	I long to tread that golden path of rays,
	And think 't might, lead to some bright isle of rest

	The twilight comes; night's shades creep
slowly o'er the wave, and the outlines of the
Green Isle of the sea grow fainter; and fainter
the sails of the tiny fleet fade from view, "day's
latest red sinks down the west, and stars creep
out of heaven's breast."
	"Twas twilight there, and Dian hung her bow
	Low down the west; and there a star,
	Kindly on thee and me, from far
	Looked down; and blessed us through the passing glow."

	Night fell. The moon rose large, red and
full, out of the dark sea. In half an hour
heavens and ocean were flooded with a glorious
romantic and hallowed light in which one
loves to linger, which always awakens the better
and more tender emotions of the heart. Can such
an evening ever fade from the mind? Can the
effect in the heart ever cease?
				WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL TO LOVE

Fiercely rolls the mountain torrent,
	Fiercer far the love I feel;
As a rock by lightning riven,
	Throbs the wound that will not heal.
Maiden, thou whose sunny glances
	Cause this icy breast to flow,
Can thy heart be made of marble?
	Must thy bosom be as snow?

Like the sound of sighing breezes,
	Sweeping o'er the wooded hill;
Or the sobbing of the waters,
	When all else is calm and still,
Must this heart heave on forever
	'Neath its passion swift or slow,
And thine own remain unyielding—
	Fix'd and frozen as the snow?

Burns the flame that finds no fuel?
	Shall the unfed fountain run?
Sings the bird that wakes no echo?
	Blooms the flow'r that sees no sun?
How shall then my soul's affection
	Gleam with unrequited glow,
Or, like sun o'er Alpine summits,
	Shine upon eternal snow?

Love!—O sweet but cruel passion!—
	Thou wert never kind to me.
Bowed I ne'er before thine altar,
	But to see thee turn and [-]ee.
Never more will I adore thee,
	False and fickle goddess—Go!
For thy brow is white as marble,
	But thy bosom cold as snow.
Logan, August, 1885.


THE ROYAL MARRIAGE.

	TO H. R. H. PRINCESS BEATRICE.

	Two Suns of Love make day of human life,
Which else with all its pains and griefs and heaths
Were utter darkenss—one, the Sun of dawn
That brightens thro the Mother's tender eyes,
And warns the child's awakenting world—and one 
The later-rising Sun of spousal Love
Which from her hosuehold orbit draws the child
To move in other spherers.  The Mother weeps
At that white fuenral To the single life.
Her maiden daughter's marriage, and her tears
Are half of pleasure, half of pain—the child
Is happy—ev'n in leaving her! but Thou,
True daughter, whose all-faithful, filial eyes
Wilt neither quit the widow'd Crown, nor let
This later lighto f Love have risen in vain,
But moving thro the Mother's home, between
The two that love thee, lead a summer life,
Sway'd by each Love, and swaying to each Love
Like some conjunctured planet in mid heaven 
Between two Suns, and drawing down from both 
The light and genial warmth of double day.
	TENNYSON.
July, 1885.


[Column 1]
	PROCREATION

	"The place whereon thou standest is holy ground."
	I realize the sanctity of the above extract
from holy writ, as I commence the subject I
am about to briefly consider.
	As I lay on my bed in the silent watches of
the night, in that indescribable mood between
sleeping and waking, something of the follow-
ing thoughts floated thro' my brain, vividly
impressing it.
	What a wonderful and mysterious work is
Procreation! how little, if at all, understood
by the world, or even by a large majority of the
Latter-day Saints.  It is shocking to think
and know, how it is performed in what is called
the world! without one thought of prepara-
tion; or the mighty results of such communion.
One party perhaps, charged with nothing but
coarse animal passion, even if not inflamed
by stimuli, which is often the case, while the

[Column 2]
other, it may be, is refined, delicate, and ele-
vated in her very nature.  As a wife, pure
and holy, and desiring worthily to fulfill her
marital covenants, but without any previous 
drawing out of her love, or endearments or
the slightest reflection of the end and pur-
pose of such an association, she is seized as
the victim, or receptacle of mere animal pas-
sion?  Imagine the constant repetition of such
a course, can love hold out, and endure such a
semblence of ravishment, and prostitution?
harsh words these, but no other would rightly
portray the acts, tho' a wedded wife, she feels
outraged, and how many bitter tears fall as
an accompaniment.  She cannot but feel she is
degraded. No wonder if her cry at such a
moment is that she may be released from such
a tie; or supposing not quite so bad a case, yet
where the mind and the system has had no
previous preparation, where is the joy, the love,
the extacy that should attend the procreation
of an immortal being.  Will a passive endur-
ance, or animal love alone produce a taber-
nacle worthy of an immortal being, which
should be one partaking of the elements of
which eternity is composed, and which ought
to inspire its conception?
	When we realize the reverse of all this need
we marvel at the beings we often  meet, who if
they ever attain purity of character it must be
by a crucifying process, and few minds are
strong enough to combat with a perverted
nature.  There are many phases which such a
union may produce, and consequently the
different natures and temperaments one meets
with; I feel sure that Latter-day Saints, many
of the most enlightened, study, with holy fear
and reverence, the wonderful and often ill-
understood command "Be fruitful and multi-
ply"—hat was given when there were but
two human beings upon the earth, and before
the earth was replenished or cultivated.
Let us meditate a moment upon the
tremendous responsibility incurred when the
being we call into existence is to live thro' the
countless ages of eternity, and who will carry
the organization with all its propensities, high
or low, thro' all these countless ages for these
form identity.  Would it not be worthy therefore
to study how we may prepare ourselves to pro-
create beings the elements of whom shall be
life, strength and unfading beauty, not dis
ease, distortion, decay, and death. To obtain
the former, we must be filled with life-giving
principles at the conception of that being, then
it will be an honor to the great Father of "the
spirits of all flesh," as also to its earthly parent-
age, and a blessing temporally and eternally
to the individual being.
	Then my thoughts suggest that beings
meditating such communion should draw out
by the best affections each possess by kind and
elevating association, for they are equal in this
wondrous act "neither are greater or less
than the other."  The Duetto should endeavor
to elevate their individual nature and charac-
ter and so act and react on each other; agreea-
ble reading or conversation, beautiful soul
thrilling music and even agreeable food; all
these and much more are essentials.
	There is a language without sound, which
the loving soul intuitively comprehends.
Should the mind of either be harassed it
should be soothed by gentle sympathy till
calm, and peace is restored to the whole organi-
zation; omit nothing that will strengthen, puri-
fy, refine and elevate both mind and body;
give the body especial and refining attention,
for it is to transmit a temple for an immortal
being. Then when thus molded and prepared,
and a sweet and heavenly mood produced, let
hands be joined in holy love and confidence,
and kneeling together in holy prayer, implore
the sanctifying, purifying influence of the 
Spirit of God to be infused into each system,
that the act may be pure and holy, that a
tabernacle may be organized in which a noble

[Column 3]
spirit may "enter in and dwell there;" that when
in days to come it may enter upon its earthly
career in the rich abundance of maturity, all
shall be constrained to say "behold one who
was born in Zion, whom the Lord hath blest."
To be an agent, a co-partner in such a heaven-
ly enterprise who would shrink from suffering.
Volumes might be written upon this marvel-
lous, mysterious subject, but I pray even this
hint may cause deeper thoughts to arise in the
pure bosom, that yearns to know the way of
truth and holiness that it may walk therein, for
no others do I make these thoughts palpable,
but I glory in the thought that God and angels
witness them.
	HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, August 1885.


THE PAY OF SINGERS.

	Mme. Nilsson, in a conversation with a friend,
recently discussed the earnings of soprano
singers. She said: 
	"You think the rate we are paid is extrava-
gant. I have had severe losses at times, but these
have nothing to do with the question are we
overpaid? Now, in the first place mon ami, we
are rare, we song birds. You can count all
the soprani of the first line on the fingers of
one hand. Now, take our kindred artist, the 
painter. He is not such a rare bird as a
soprano. If he is really good, and paints por-
traits in London or Paris, he makes from [symbol for pounds]10,-
000 to [symbol for pounds]20,000 a year. He is not only not
rare—he is numerous. What say you of your
Millais, Holl, Leighton, Herkomer, Ouless in
London; and Meissonnier, Carolus Dunran
and Cabanel, not to mention poor Bastien-Le-
page, in Paris, as well as Sargent and several
more? We singers are rare; we are competed
for; and according to your natural law of value,
fetch a high price, as would a fairly handsome
diamond. Such a one as is worth [symbol for pounds]300 or
[symbol for pounds]400 now, if there were only four or five in
the world, would fetch twenty, thirty thousand
—what you will. The singer cannot go on
singing in her dotage, as a painter can paint.
The working life of the artist on canvas is
fully twice as long as that of the singer, whose
voice or general health may break down any
moment. and who is exposed to risks in hurry-
ing from one engagement to another, from
which the painter is entirely free. As for me,
I lead a triangular life between London, Paris,
and the United States. All receive me charm-
ingly, and the Amerians always seem delight-
ed to see me again. But the life of a singer 
is made up of hard work, care and self-denial—
so far as I know—the absolute conditions of
achieving and sustaining a high professional 
reputation. One lives; as it were, in a glass
case."—Ex.


With a tender remembrance of that mag-
nificent women Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colo-
rado Springs, we record her demise. Mrs. 
Jackson died on the 12 of August in San
Francisco where she went for the benefit of
her health sometime previous. Mrs. Jackson
wrote over the signature of H. H. and is wide-
ly known as a journalist of rare merit. Her
last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been
spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best
novel by an American woman. Mrs. Jack-
son was a New England woman and her father
was one of the founders of Amhurst college,
Mass. During her two visits in this city we
had many interesting conversations, and she
expressed herself always as intensely interested
in all religions, especially anything new or
original and when it most concerned women.
She was one of the peculiarly rare women 
once whom having met, one can never for-
get.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Emmeline B. Wells.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room No.4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldrege
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z.C.M.I. Business
hours from 10a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
	﻿THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	The terrible events transpiring from time to
time in the world are enough to harrow up the
souls of all those who are at all sensitive to suf-
fering and one who reflects can scarcely help
asking the question, what will the next denoue-
ment be. Those who are familiar with the Scrip-
tures and especially with the prophecies can
scarcely avoid recognizing the fulfillment of the
judgments of the Lord in the dreadful calamities
and casualitles which the records of the times are
showing. The recital of the horrors with which
the newspapers and journals abound can scarcely
be read without emotion. Destruction and death
come swooping down upon a city,a village a steam-
er an island or individuals without the least warn-
ing. Not only are the elements at seeming war
but the inhabitants of the earth “have sought out
many devices." Skill and cunning are combined
to produce and invent the means of destruction of
life and prosperity. Not only this but class dis-
tinctions and the hatred that springs up in conse-
quence of these, finds expression in various
ways sometimes in open outbreaks or more often
in secret societies and organizations where plans
are thoroughly matured and negotiations entered
into, that are demoralizing to the community and
will result in the undermining of its best interests,
and which there is every reason to fear from
hints and threats and palpable indications will
ultimately overturn society at large, striking at the
very foundations of civilization itself.
	The contemplation of these things furnishes
many lessons,especially to the prophetic mind of
a true Latter-day Saint, and although the subject
is an awe-inspiring and appalling one, yet when
these things are received as tokens of the
Messiah’s second coming and preparatory of the
reign of peace on the earth, one feels that humili-
ty, meekness and obedience to the commandments
of God is the sure path of safety and deliverance.
There is no trusting in the power and pride of
nations or of kingdoms, for all will be broken in
pieces according as the Prophet Daniel has said,
and the God of heaven will set up His Kingdom
never to be thrown down.
	Already the seeds of dissension and disunion
have been sown and are springing up in this gov-
ernment, which every loyal Ammerican citizen
has felt so much pride in, and such intense love
for; and the very laws that have been enacted to
prevent the free exercise of religious liberty and to
disfranchise men and women innocent of any
crime, and furthermore to harass, distress and im-
prison them, inflicting pains and penalties for the
practical acceptance of a law of God, a law that
He has at different times in past ages,as well as
in the present positively commanded His people
to observe, this has opened such a yawning
chasm in the before almost perfect structure, that
all nations have admired even from afar, that not
many years hence unless strong measures are
immediately taken to repair or bridge over this
great opening that has been made in the very

[Column 2]
foundations of liberty, it will be irreparable, and
not only Latter-day Saints who have been made
the first immediate sufferers, but the fifty-five
millions of people that are continually held up
as a warning to this handful of people, will feel it,
and sorrow and misery will ensue such as one
can scarcely endure even the thought of.
	And why are these fifty-five millions of people
so indignant, so disgraced to use the familiar
language of the newspapers of the day, because
a few people away out here in Utah have adopt-
ed the patriarchal form of marriage. Has it ever
hurt them, or in any way infringed upon a right of
theirs, social, political or religious? If it has
there is always the Law and the Courts to go to
 for justice. But it has not, and even those who
have come here and established themselves,
planted homes and built up churches of the vari-
ous denominations, cannot say truthfully that in
any way they have been intruded upon, or injured
because of the practice of a plurality of wives.
That wives are contented, that children are edu-
cated and provided for, that homes are respecta-
ble, that all things are done decently and in order
and no law of propriety infringed upon we make
bold to assert. That fathers and mothers who
have obeyed this principle and honored it have
been peculiarly and wonderfully blest, we most
solmnly affirm; that those who have fought against
it and have been unwilling to accept this purer
and higher law given for the advancement of the
human family in the scale of progression have
not attained to the same intelligence and excel-
lence that those have, who have obeyed this princi-
ple and entered into these sacred covenants. The
Gentiles themselves who live in Utah know that
the men that have been disfranchised are honora-
ble, upright men; men of unimpeachable integrity,
and they know too that it is not because they do
not honor virtue and encourage purity of life, that
men are arraigned before these courts and
condemned by juries who are in no sense of the
word their peers. Is this justice? Is there even a
semblance of honesty in it leaving honor out of
the question? Will prison bars or cells or penalties
or punishments of any kind destroy a vital princi-
ple? No never! Punishments may be so severe
as to torture, wear out and kill, but the principle
still exists and eventually truth will triumph over
error how ever fiercely the battle may rage be-
tween the two opposing powers.
	Those who live longest will see in the finale of
the present controversy and persecution now rag-
ing, ostensibly in consequence of the practise of a
principle that was taught and practised by holy
men of old, that it will yet appear that office seek-
ing, political place and power and Mammon were
the real motives that caused the raid against the
"Mormons." Let the deceiver and hypocrite hide
their wicked deeds under cover of love of virtue
and loyalty to government, time will yet disclose
their baseness and treachery and all those who
have fought against Zion will be brought to naught,
and the Kingdom of God will flourish and spread
abroad and all nations will see the glory thereof.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Saturday September 19th the conference of
the Primary Association of this Stake of Zion
will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, com-
mencing at 10 a. m. At 2 p. m. the conference of
Y. L. M. I. A. will be held at the same place.
Written reports for each of these meetings are
expected from each Association of the Stake.
	The Relief Society conference of this Stake
will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms
on Friday, September 18th commencing at 10 a.
m. and at 2 p. m. It will be the time for written
reports and no branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should fail to send in the report on
time. It is very desirable also that there should
be a good attendance of the members and that

[Column 2]
there shonld be representatives from each branch 
to receive whatever instruction or counsel may be
given.
	ON the 8th of August a small party of ladies
gathered at the residence of Dr. R. B. Pratt to
celebrate the aniversary of that lady’s birth. It
was wholly unexpected and the Dr. was out of
town. She arrived home, however, about 8 o’clock
and found her parlor well filled, and hearty con-
gratulations were first in order, then followed a
delicious repast of sandwiches, cakes; fruits and
ice-cream. Drs. E. S. Barney and E. R. Shipp
doing the honors of the table. The party then
returned to the parlor where speeches were made
congratulatory and friendly by sisters Phebe
Woodruff, H. T. King, M. N. Hyde, S. M. Kim-
ball, E. S. Taylor, E. Bunnell, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Mary Burnham E. B. Wells, E. R. Shipp, M. D.
Jane White. M. C. Shipp, M. D. and one or two
others. Sister M. I Horne closed the remarks.
During the evening Dr. Pratt expressed herself
grateful for the honor bestowed upon her in the
assembling of the sisters and in the many en-
couraging remarks addressed to her, and hoped to
be ever worthy of such friendship and friends.
	IN this issue of the EXPONENT will be seen the
announcement that Dr. R. B. Pratt wlil commence
another class in midwifery September 21st. Dr.
Pratt has been giving this kind of instruction for
several years and her students are now pursuing
their vocation in various places in the territory.
She has had excellent success in this direction,
and scarcely needs a word of recommendation
though she is deserving of praise, for her energy
and perseverance in following her profession,
never tiring of her work, always cheerful and
self-possessed. Such women are a blessing to the
community and Salt Lake City can boast quite a
number of'these lady physicians. Dr. Pratt ad-
vertises she will instruct her class in the galvanic
battery which is becoming quite a power in the
sick room. She will also assist them in the pur-
chase of batteries for their own use in practice
whereby they can obtain them cheaper than they
could otherwise. This will be quite an advan-
tage to those who desire to combine this knowl-
edge with the study of obstetrics.
	WE wish to call the attention of our readers to
the advertisement of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp in this
issue of the paper. Circumstances hindered the
lady from commencing her class in obstetrics as
previously announced. The Doctor graduated
from the Women’s Medical College in Phila-
delphia in the spring of 1882 and since that time
has devoted herself to practice in her profession
and to lecturing on subjects pertaining to the
study of medicine. She has traveled extensively in
the territory and is widely and favorably known.
The Doctor is a thorough and competent teacherand
is possessed of excellent natural ability sim-
plifies her subjects so that no one can mistake her
meaning. As a lecturer she has been very highly
spoken of having a good voice and pleasing man-
ner and a faculty of concentrating her ideas so as
to make her points clear and concise. There is
much need of efficient and intelligent help in this
field of labor and it is a branch of the profession
that will always find employment. The sisters in
the various settlements in the several Stakes of
Zion should use their utmost influence to send
students to receive this class of instruction; that
there need be no lack of thorough preparation on
the part of those who officiate as practitioners.
Young women should be encouraged to study this
important branch of medical science and become
intimately acquainted with the human organism,
that they may be better prepared to fill the high
and holy mission assigned to them on earth that
of  the wife and mother.	
	Dr. Maggie C Shipp has labored under great
disadvantages and has had to practise severe les-
sons of self denial in order to obtain the knowl-


edge of her profession and she is desirous of
using her best efforts to impart correct ideas to
others, and we sincerely hope she will meet with
liberal patronage from the Saints.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PERSECUTED FOR RIGHTEOUSNESS
SAKE.

	Yes we are persecuted for daring to dissent
from established man-made laws and the opinions
of the general mass of mankind. When es-
tablished rule contaminates and makes the lives
of its votaries corrupt it is high time to awake
to a sense of the condition of society and set our
faces like flint against prevailing evil that will
lead the soul down to dissolution and death.
Every Latter-day Saint that loves virtue and moral
rectitude has stepped out of the broad high-way
into the narrow path that leads unto eternal life,
and so wide apart are these two ways they can
never blend together. The one leads to destruc-
tion and dissolution, while the other is progress-
ive, onward and upward. The higher grade that
leads to that immortal shore, where the ship of
Zion anchors safely. If we can count the num-
ber of sands upon the sea shore, or when we 
raise our eyes and gaze into the starry sky and be-
hold with wonder and amazement its organized
magnitude; we are lost in thought and exclaim,
neither can we conceive nor number the multitude
of beings that will increase worlds without end,
sons and daughters of these noble men and
women who have dared to differ in their religious
convictions, who have entered into the Patriarchal
order of marriage that reaches within the vail,
like an anchor to the soul, sure and steadfast.
They have made an eternal covenant with their
God. To continue the lives as did the Patriarchs
of old. To perpetuate a righteous seed that can-
not be numbered for multitude, whose souls are
lit up with fire of revelation. The true
sons and daughters of God, born un-
der the new and everlasting cove-
nant of God, the only covenant that He acknowl-
edges. This law of marriage binds stronger than
death. The ceremony is performed for time and
all eternity, and binds the husband to his wives in
the resurrection and the children to their parents.
This is the binding law spoken of in Malachi
last chapter. To bind the hearts of the parents
to their children and the children to the parents.
Moses held this law and married the children of
Israel by it and there were very strict statutes and
judgments pertaining to this higher law of mar-
riage. They were not to mingle with any other
people, that God did not acknowledge, they (the
Priests) were forbidden to marry a divorced woman.
The husband and wife should be of the same
faith and blood of their progenitors, and abstain
from all social evils.
	Time is fleeting and the Lord will cut His work
short in righteousness.
	Mat. 3rd chap, "Behold I will send my mesenger
and he shall prepare the way before me; and the
Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come, to His
Temple even the messenger of the covenant
we delight in, He shall come saith the Lord of
hosts."
	Here are two individuals spoken of. The Lord
will come to His temple, and the messenger that
prepared the way before the Lord, a messenger of
the covenant.
	4th verse: "Then shall the offering of Judah
and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord as in the
days of old, and as in former years. The Savior
has identified His name with polygamists, calls
himself the offspring of David, and says of him-
self, "Behold, I come quickly, etc," calls himself,
"the Lord God of the holy prophets." Nathan
the prophet was one of these.
	An overwhelming revolution is on the verge of
time before our eyes. Divine prophecy must have
a fulfillment. Nearly 2000 years has passed away

[Column 2]

since the great change took place in the Jewish
nation. They were a powerful majority in state
and religion and thought the minority could not
cope with them, the poor, meek, simple Gentiles,
not worthy to enter their sanctums of worship, or
eat with them at table. But John the Baptist came
crying from the wilderness, "Repent ye, for the
Kingdom of God is at hand." And the meek and
lowly Jesus made himself the friend of these out-
cast Gentiles, whom the Jews called sinners which
was a great offence to those learned Rabbis,
and a Savior born of poor parentage was an in-
sult to their dignity. Therefore they spurned
offers of salvation at the hands of mercy, and
their pride and rebellion laid them low in power.
They fought against a kind and merciful God,
killed His prophets that were sent unto them to
warn them of coming judgments and crucified
God's only son. By doing this they thought to
have full power and control over their own des-
tiny. But their overthrow and downfall was
sure and certain, and the poor despised Gentiles
rose to eminence upon their downfall, nationally
and religiously. Let us draw aside the vail and
look with comparative eyes at causes and effects
that are transpiring on the stage of present events.
Is not the world ripe in iniquity and do not the
powers that be, defy God's right to set up His
Kingdom on the earth? Which He will do in the
same plain and simple manner as He did two
thousand years ago, as predicted by Daniel.
	The poor persecuted, "ignorant, criminal" out-
lawed Latter-day Saint people are just foolish and
simple-minded enough to believe that God will set
up His Kingdom on the earth to be a rule over all
others, and that He has sent His messenger of
the covenant to prepare the way of the coming
of the Lord Jesus, who will reign as King of kings
and Lord of lords, who will put all enemies under
His feet. And those who oppose these things,
when He shall come, will call for the rocks and
mountains to fall upon them to hide them from
His presence. Joseph Smith was a true prophet
of God. The Gospel was revealed to him, as the
Savior and the disciples preached it two thousand
years ago; and the writer of this, it was made
known to her several years before she knew such
a church or people existed. That the true church
and the same gospel that the Apostles preached
would be again, and I promised I would receive 
it if I had to suffer like unto the Saints in the
apostolic age. The first sermon I heard an Elder
of this Church preach, I was convinced it was the
Bible doctrine. I was 22 years of age, lived at
the time at South Norwalk, Conn. The subject
was, the Kingdom of God is like a perfect
structure, take away any of its parts and the
building would fall, so likewise take away from
the Kingdom of God, Apostles Prophets and the
gifts of the Spirit, it becomes disorganized at once
and has no power to act. The world stumbles
at our unity of faith. We are all baptised into
one body, we see eye to eye by the same spirit,
we believe in one faith, one baptism and one Lord
overall. One of our Church members may be in
India, another in New York, they both believe the
Gospel plan alike and need correspond. The
spirit that we receive after baptism leads us into
all truth.
	August 12.	M. A. PRATT.


﻿R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The ladies regular semi-montly meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms Saturday
August 22nd, Mrs E. B. Wells presiding. Sing-
ing, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation"
etc. Prayer by Mrs. Margaret Steele. Continued
by singing "When the voice of friendship’s heard."
Minutes of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 20th, 17th,19th
and 1st and P. A. of the 5th and 21st Wards,were
then read.


﻿Mrs. E. B. Wells made some remarks upon
general subjects and referred especially to self-
control or the government of one's own temper
and passions. Thought it was a thing we should
all observe and seek to improve in and that it
would give us greater influence as mothers in our
own homes. Made other good suggestions.
	Mrs. Julia Howe addressed the meeting for a
short time and alluded also to the necessity of
self-control, spoke of her feelings in regard to
those who are suffering for the sake of principle,
her prayers and intercessions in their behalf and
made other good remarks.
	Mrs. H. T. King said she felt we were pass-
ing under a cloud, but it had a silver lining. Said
she could not remember the time when she did
not pray and had felt the benefit of prayer all her
life, spoke upon self and family government and
order in the home and advanced some excellent
ideas.
	Mrs. Mary Irvine said she felt she could not
give utterance to the feeeings of her heart, but
she came with the intention of mingling her voice
with the voices of her sisters, but did not expect
to speak from the stand. Spoke of her desire to
obtain perfect control of herself, thought she was
improving some, alluded to those men and women
who betray their brethren and sisters and the
horror she felt of such a course, exhorted all to
faithfulness, and advised those present who felt
inpressed to do so, to rise up and speak.
	Mrs. Wells then requested the sisters in the
congregation to occupy the remainder of the time
in speaking and bearing testimony.
	Testimonies were then borne by Sisters Mary
Brown, Mary Silver, Jane James. The congrega-
tion sung the first and last verse of the hymn "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning." Testimonies
were afterwards borne by Sisters M. G. Chase,
C. Fawcett, Ann Richards, Lois Hook, Mary
Davis and others.
	Mrs. Wells made some closing remarks and
Mrs. Ellen Greeves made timely remarks and
bore a very strong and powerful testimony. Meet-
ing was then adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
"Mid Scenes of confusion and creature com-
plaints," and benediction by Dr. E. R. Shipp.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Monday the 14th,	*	*	the pioneers
of the 2nd division met this morning at the
Council House to arrange themselves in com-
panies of tens, etc."
	Tuesday the 16th, fair weather.	*	*
Went by tnvitation with a number of the
band, to see a noted flute-player, McCay by
name, who professes to be a Choctaw Indian.
He performed on the flute-saucepan-etc.
	On the evening of the the 17th he men-
tions attending a meeting of the band, at
James Clayton's to make some arrangements
about a concert to be held at the Council
House, which came off the next evening. He
says, "I attended only a short time
not feeling well, afflicted with a se-
vere cold on my lungs, also in my
head. Brother Wm. Clayton did not attend,
in consequence of illness. He makes mention
of the scurvy which was so sorely afflicting the
Saints, many cases having proved fatal.
	"Sunday the 21st.	*	*	a large
number assembled at the sound of a bell, to
hear President Young give instructions, which
were good." Brother Kimball called his pri-
vate family together this evening and blessed
them to the number of thirty-six. My wife
and I did not attend, not feelin well,"
	A "Patriarchal Epistle," which father had
prepared, was read. It contained advice to


his eldest son, Wm., an adopted son,
Daniel Davis, concerning the bringing up of
the different families, and children that were
under his charge. The following were among
the designs, which he wished them to carry
out after he was gone.
	"In the first place, I want you should fit
out a wagon in the first order for your mother,
and see that she is supplied with everything
for her comfort, so that she may live in a re-
tired way, and take every method to throw off
every burden from her shoulders, and take it
upon yourselves, or cast it equally upon others
with yourselves.
	Also that Sarah Noon shall have a waggon by
herself and family. Also Sarah Whitney with
her family; and also Brother Howard Egan's
family; also James Smithies with his family.
And be particular that these families have a
bag of flour and, a bag of meal, put into
their own waggons; also meat and such articles
as are necessary for their convenience, that
they may not have reason to complain, or bor-
row of, or trouble each other. And when
their bags and stores are empty see that they
are filled. Be very particular to retain a
prayerful, meek and quiet spirit, that you can
have comforting words for your mother, sisters
and friends who are with you while attending
to their wants and necessities, that you may
prove a blessing to them, and a comfort and
consolation in very deed, and they will rise up
and bless you, and your hearts will rejoice, and
you will always be glad, and your Father in
heaven, and on earth will bless you, and it
will be a source of rejoicing to you forever,and
your sons and daughters in their turn, will
arise and bless and comfort you in like man-
ner.
	The same day my husband wrote, "my wife's
health quite poor yet, she is afflicted at present
with a severe cough,having taken a hard cold."
	On the 29th he mentions a number of the
brethren, who were going to remian behind, 
starting for the "Old Fort," ten miles above
there, for the purpose of putting in a crop,
and also a number of families, who were pre-
paring to remove to that place. The mill
commenced some time ago, is now about finished,
so that they are about ready to grind wheat,
corn, etc- He speaks of the boys "flying round"
and making ready to start for the Rocky
Mountains—says Brother Kimball has six
waggons fitted out ready loaded to start.
	Sunday, April the 4th, he mentions the call-
ing together of a portion of his father's and
my father's families—eleven persons in all—to
a meeting for prayer, and also for instruction
from father and Bishop Whitney. This was
held in the room occupied by my husband's
sister, Sarah Ann, next door to mine, and be-
ing now convalescent I was able to attend.
	My father recommended Bishop Whitney
to his family "as a worthy, good and exemplary
man," to counsel them in his absence, and
said there was "no person living in the world"
in whom he placed more confidence than he 
did in Brother Whitney, and there was no
person who would have so much influence in
his (father's) family in his absence. Many
things were said and much good instruction
given by both fathers, when the meeting was 
adjourned till evening.
	Agreeable to adjournment they met again in
the evening and conversed till about 9 o'clock;
when a prayer was offered up, father being
mouth. "Afterwards," Horace wrote, Brother
Kimball and father alternately blessed each
member of his family, and the meeting dis-
smissed about 11 o'clock, after having enjoyed
one of the happiest times (and apparently the
briefest) period in my existence."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	First I would say that of all people on
earth we are the most blest, and should be the


most happy. It is true we are deprived of
many privileges, as legal citizens that we should
enjoy. We are hated by all the world, op-
pressed, even imprisoned, our rights taken
from us, yet we know it is the work of the
Lord and He will suffer our enemies to oppress
us until we become the people he desires us to
be. Then we must acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in it, and know that it is for our good.
How necessary it is that we should become a
better people, and to do this, we must obey all
His commandments do everything that is re-
quired of us by those in authority, in righteous-
ness, overcome our selfish nature, do to others
as we would have them do unto us, so that we
may claim His blessings. Now, I wish to say
a few words in regard to the Relief Society.
There seems to be various opinions as to what
the duties are and what it is intended
for. Now, I do not pretend to say that I know,
but I know what I think. Some say this
society never was intended for anything but to
work and make means to relieve the poor, and
say I don't think it is women's business to hold
meetings and preach. These meetings are so
dull, I can't be interested in them. Others
will say, I can't see any good the Relief
Society does anyhow, and I don't like to go to
the meetings I am afraid I will have some-
thing to do. Now, my sisters, I hope there is
none in our little place that have such a spirit
as this in our society, if there is, I would ask
them whose duty it is to make the society pros-
per and make our meetings lively and interest-
ing, is it the President's? if you think so you
are deceiving yourself, for she in her own
strength and weakness is not able to do it. She
must have the faith and prayers and united
efforts of her sisters and strength and wisdom
from God. There are none that have never
held this position that can tell how embarrass-
ing it is, especially when one sees that some
are inclined to pull back, Now I hope that
none of my sisters feel like this. Now I will
tell you what I think about our Relief Society.
I think they hold the same relation in the
Church that a woman does to her husband.
The woman is the help-mate for the man and
he is not perfect without her, and the
Prophet Joseph said the Church was not com-
plete without the Relief Society, so it is the
woman's duty to help her husband in all
things temporal, religious, political, or any-
thing that is for his interest, is for hers also.
He is the father, she is the mother and his
equal, but not his superior. The Bishop is
the father of the people, so the Society is the
mother and it has its duties to look after the
interest of the ward as a mother looks after
her children. Teach them good principles,
correct wrongs, relieve distress, set a good ex-
ample and work for the interest of the ward.
Women are expected to help build up the
Kingdom as well as the men and if the Lord
has designed that this should be part of the
work we are to do, let us take hold in good
faith not doubting but what we will accom-
plish some good, I do think that we are
favored and blest with privileges that we shonld
appreciate and furthermore when we meet in
our working meetings we are engaged in God's
work and should observe as good order as
though we had met for worship.	*	*
		M. B.
	Erastus, Arizona.


[Column 1]

[From the Boston Commonwealth, Saturday, August
1st, 1885.]

ANOTHER LOOK AT THE MORMON
PROBLEM.

EDITOR OF THE BOSTON COMMONWEALTH:
	A landscape varies in beauty and interest
according as it is seen from one or another
point of view. Not unlikely the Mormon
question may also be viewed under a better
light than that under which it appeared in the

[Column 2]

Commonwealth of July 18th. Will you kindly
permit a long-time subscriber to attempt so to
present it?
	Now, keeping in mind that persecutions on
account of religious opinions and practices
were very prevalent in the old countries, from
which emigrated the settlers of what now form
the United States and that to prevent the
persecution of any religious sect in the United
States, it was expressly declared in the politi-
cal constitution of the United States, that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an es-
tablishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof," then the Mormon prob-
lem is, whether Mormons in the United States
are,equally with other religious sects, entitled
to protection in the enjoyment and exercise of
their religious faith and practice, including the
practice or plural or polygamic marriage.
	By Christians, marriage is regarded to
be a religious ordinance. By Roman
Catholics and also by Mormons, it is held to
be a sacrament. The Roman Catholic church,
in obedience to its interpretation of the Bible,
and its other religious authorities, approve
celibacy, but permit monogamic marriage, and
hold it as the only legal and true marriage.
For ages it has endeavored, through terrific
maledictions, and by awful pains and penalties,
to prevent polygamic marriage. On the other
hand, Mormons, under the sanction
of the same Bible, and in obedience to
it and their other religious authorities,
discountenance celibacy, believe both mono-
gamic and polygamic marriage to be approved
of by God, and practice either, according as
their inclination and circumstances may per-
mit. By Shakers celibacy is approved and
practiced. and all marriage is religiously
avoided. In all these sects the conjugal re-
lation, be it of any kind, whether entered into
or avoided, partakes of a religious character,
and the free exercise of it as a religious or-
dinance by each and every sect of religionists
is, as many honest. sound thinkers believe,
equally entitled to protection against inter-
ference and persecution. Wise and politic
was the Roman proconsul Gallio, when he
told Paul's persecutors that as to their ques-
tions and the interpretations of their religious
law, to look to it themselves and not to trouble
him with them, and so drove them from the
judgement-seat.—Acts xviii, 18. Would that
Congress had been equally judicious in its
treatment of the Mormon question! Every
religious persecution, whether heathen or
Christian, is impolitic and wrong, and is re-
membered to the shame of the persecutors.
The persecution of the witches, supported as
it was by the honorables and reverends of the
day, is now reckoned as a sorry blot on the
fair fame of Massachusetts. The present per-
secution of the Mormons in a so-called land of
liberty, and under a political constitution ex-
pressly providing for religious toleration,
will be recorded in history as a lamentable out-
break of bigotry and intolerance, as a breach
by the government of its solemnly blighted
faith for religious liberty, and a wicked and
cruel violation of the natural marital rights of
men and women.
	The Commonwealth writer insists that "the
laws of order and decency must be enforced in
Utah." In the opinion of many competent
observers (whose testimony there is not here
space for) there was far more genuine order
and decency in Utah, prior to the enactment
of the Edmunds statute, and the advent there
of government officials and their servitors,
than there has since been. The Mormons were
orderly and peaceful, and even now, though
suffering from bitter oppression, are yet orderly
and peaceful. "Order reigns in Warsaw,"
said the Czar; but despotism, whether in Ru-
sia or the United States, is not order; it is con-
centrated disorder, it is mental dynamite, and,
sooner or later, will explode, spreading misery


[Column 1]

and destruction in its blast. As for the laws
of decency—decencies are matters of taste,
custom and habit, and vary with time and
places. A Turkish lady is shocked to be seen
by a strange man without a covering to her
face, and sometimes will veil it with her only
petticoat. A well bred African lady blushes
to be seen for the first time in clothes. Why
should the Commonwealth writer's notion of
decency be enforced upon "Mormons" instead
of their notions being enforced upon him? In-
decency is the fruit of ignorance; it is prolific
in vicious minds. It does not exist in virtu-
ous souls. Pharisees and hypocrites everywhere
see much of it, unconscious all the while, that
it is simply the reflex action of their own in-
ward thoughts.
	The Commonwealth writer emphasizes that
it "is clear" that "polygamy is a sin against
the law of nature and the law of society,
against man and against woman." If it be
thus so clear, it is wondrous strange that many
wise and good men who have made it a matter
of special observation did not so see it. No-
where in the Bible is there any condemnation
of it. On the contrary, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Moses, the psalmists and prophets, practiced
polygamy. Said Jesus: "Whosoever shall put
away his wife and marry another, commiteth
adultery against her. The sin is not in marry-
ing another, but in putting away the other wife,
"The Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he
hateth putting away."—Malachi 2, 16.
	So far from being clear to Plate that poly-
gamy was wrong, he suggested that in a per-
fect republic it would be of great advantage
to all concerned that wives and children
should be in common. Socrates, Theodoret,
St. Ambrose, St. Chrysostom, St. Augustin,
Bolingbroke, Luthur, Melancthon, and other
philosophers, churchmen and statesmen, after
careful consideration, have concluded that
polygamy was not forbidden, neither by the
law of nature, nor by the word of God, and
therefore is not sinful.
	All this and much more valuable learning
on the subject may be found in Rev. Dr. Mar-
tin Madan's "Thelyphthora," published in 1781,
in London, by a brother of the Bishop of
Bristol and Peterborough. Dr. Madan there
seeks to prove that polygamy is a divine law
of marriage, and that the dissoluteness so
prevalent in the cities of Christendom (some
revelations of which have recently been made
through the columns of the Pall Mall Gazette)
are the necessary and certain outgrowth of
enforced exclusive monogamic marriage. A
copy of Dr- Madan's book is in the Boston
Public Library. Moreover, about ten years
ago, there was published in Boston a second
edition of "The History and Philosophy of
Marriage, or Polygamy and monogamy com-
pared by a Christian Philanthropist." The
author was a Baptist minister, who went to
India, and there, having lived for many years,
he returned, he says, "to my native land an
older, and, I hope, a wiser man," He re-
marks that the prejudices of modern Christians
to polygamy "are neither natural nor inveter-
ate, but that they have been induced by the
corrupted Christianity of the mediæval priest-
hood, and that they will be removed when
Christian people become better informed."
Rev. David O. Allen, missionary of the Ameri-
can Board of Missions for twenty-five years in
India, in his "India Ancient and Modern," a
copy of which was given to the Boston Public
Library by Theodore Parker, says (page 604):
Polygamy is not wrong as it exists among Jews.
Mohammedans and Hindoos, and that the con-
tinuance of the relations after they become
Christian cannot be morally wrong- The Cal.
cutta Missionary Conference of missionaries
of several sects, exclusive of Roman Catholic,
adopted unanimously the same conclusion.
	But let this article, now almost too long for
your columns, close with a single remark from

[Column 2]

John Selden's "Table Talk" He was a mem-
ber of the Westminster Association for Di-
vines for settling the doctrine, liturgy and
government of the Church of England, of
stupendous learning in all kinds, and in all
languages, and of whose "Table Talk", Coler-
idge said, there is more weighty bullion sense
in it, than he ever found in the same number
of pages in any uninspired writer. Selden's
remarks is that "Marriage is nothing but a
civil contract." "Of all actions of a man's life,
his marriage does least concern other people.
Yet of all actions of our life, 'tis most meddled
with by other people."
	Now, Mr. Editor, please allow me to express
the wish of many good citizens, that the exist-
ing persecutions of the Mormons may speedily
and completely cease.
		A. E. G.
	Hyde Park, Mass., July 22, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

EMERY STAKE.

	Minutes of the 5th semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of Emery Stake held at
Castle Dale August 7th 1885. Prest. Anna U.
Larson presiding. Singing, prayer by Prest.
C. G. Larsen. Singing, and minutes of last
conference read and approved, also statistical
and financial reports for the last half year.
President Anna U. Larsen addressed the
conference, was pleased to hear the reports for
the last six months, thought it showed the
sisters to be alive to their duties, said the poor
should be remembered, if any in our midst.
Spoke of the persecutions we are passing
through at this time and said, it behooves us
to live humble and prayerful that we may be
faithful to the end. The presidents were all
present except the one from Moab. They gave
verbal reports showing that the sisters were
united in whatever they undertook to do
	Meeting was then adjourned till half past
1 o'clock.  Singing. Benediction by Bishop H.
Olsen.

	Afternoon meeting: Opened with singing,
prayer by Bro. E. Curtis. Singing.
	Sister Larsen spoke for a short time, was
thankful she had a testimony to bear to the
truth of this work; spoke of the persecutions
of the Saints. 
	Brother Peter Johnson, Sister Ann Pul-
sipher Sister A. Fulmer, also Sister Stena
Olsen and Sister Curtis spoke and bore faith-
ful testimonies.
	President C. G. Larsen was pleased to hear
the reports read, thought it very commendable
to the sisters, was glad they had a few hundred
bushels of grain stored up. Spoke of home-
manufacture, said some of our brethren are
cast into prison but that is just a commence-
ment of the trials, and it is not alone those
who practice the law of celestial marriage, but
all claiming to be Latter-day Saints will be
tested in a similar manner.
	Bishop H. Olsen was highly pleased to see
the improvement the sisters had made and en-
couraged them to faithfulness.
	President Anna U. Larsen made closing
remarks; was pleased to see part of the carpet
ready, made by the sisters of this Stake, for
Manti Temple. Thanked all the sisters for
donating so freely. Sister Clara C. R. Kofford
was then sustained as Assistant Stake Secretary
for the R. S. of Emery Stake.
	Conference adjourned till the first Friday in
Feb. 1886, to be held at Huntington. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bishop J Robertson.
	ANALIZA SEELY, Stake Sec.


Madame Patti is taking a rest at her castle
in Wales and intends remaining there until
November.


AN	ADDRESS.

DELIVERED AT PANGUITCH ON THE 24TH OF
	JULY.

	BY MRS. SARAH P. CROSBY.
		
	Gentlemen and ladies:  I appear before you
on this interesting occasion, in behalf of the 
mothers of Israel and I am thankful to my
Heavenly Father for the privilege of being
able to represent such good and pure and noble
minded women as the women of Utah and the
mothers in Israel, and that we are permitted in
peace to celebrate this memorable day, the 37th
anniversary of the arrival of the Pioneers into
Salt Lake Valley, where the Saints throught
they were free from oppression and where they
could "worship God according to the dictates
of their own consciences."
	After being driven from the States of
Misouri and Illinois, their husbands and 
fathers having been torn from their families
imprisoned and some even murdered by a 
ruthless mob, while innocent women and child-
ren had been left without a protector, and
many had suffered death from hunger and
exposure and all for the knowledge they had of
God and the truthfulness of His work, and the
ready willingness to obey his laws, and while
fleeing as fugitives from their beloved country 
and under the most trying circumstances an
order was given by Colonel S. F. Kearney of
the U. S. Army, then commanding the army
of the West and issued by Capt. James Allen
calling for five hundred of our best men who
would accept the service for twelve months, 
who would be willing to serve their country for
that period in the war with Mexico, which
order was complied with, leaving women and
children on the prairie without homes or
shelter, my mother and her children being
among the number.

	"What were their families to do,"
	Their children wives and mothers too,
	When fathers, husbands, sons were gone?
	Mothers drove teams, and camps moved on. 

	But passing over these scenes and encounter-
ing the hardships of a long and tedious jour-
ney of over a thousand miles on a trackless
wilderness brought us to the valley of Great
Salt Lake then a barren desert unihabita-
ble except to the wolf, owl and roaming 
Indian.
	But nothing daunted these same brave
women went to work with a will, in connection
with their husbands to make homes in the
desert and make it blossom as the rose, with
all the hardships of a frontier life, they can
now point with pride to their beautiful homes
in the once desert valleys, also their numerous
and beautiful children being reared in the
fear and admonition of the Lord. 
	But the enemy that drove them from their
homes in the States of Misouri and Illinois
is again upon them with intent to mob them
of their peaceable happy homes and their
liberties. 
	Delicate women have been made to suffer
the most exquisite torture of mind, some have 
been incarcerated in prison, and all for the
sake of our religious convictions, but do we
feel to bemoan our fate?  Not at all!  but we
will contend legally for our rights trusting in
God and that we may ever prove true to our re-
ligion, to our God and to our friends, is the
humble prayer of your sister.


The telegrams on the 25th of August announced
a horrible calamity in Canton, China, by a flood
which destroyed at once ten thousand lives,
The details are horrifying and the consequences
which will follow the loss of property and
crops will no doubt involve such distress and
suffering as one shrinks from thinking about.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES

	Died in Santaquin, August 5th 1885. Joseph Abram,
son of Andrew and Ann Walwork. Aged 11 years, 1
month and ten days. He was a faithful member of the
Primary Association always ready to respond to every call.
We will miss him from our society, though we feel to say
thy will be done O Lord.
	Resolved that we, the officers and members of the as-
sociation, do sympathize with Brother Walwork and family,
in the loss of their beloved son and brother,
	Resolved that we place this on our record and present a
copy to the bereaved family, and that one be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication.
				ELIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
				AGNES CLARK,
				ANNIE BROADBENT, Counselors.

	James Hyrum,son of James and Francis A. Goodall,
who departed this life July 13th 1885, aged 8 years, 6
months and 20 days.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas by a decree of an alwise providence one of our
little members of the Primary Association of Santaquin,
has been called from our midst.
	Resolved that in our sorrow we find consolation in the
thought that it is well with him for whom we mourn, though
it is hard to part with our little ones.
	Resolved that we condole with the bereaved parents in
this their great loss and that we place this on our record
and present a copy to the bereaved parents and that one
be sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		ELIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
		AGNES CLARK,
		ANNIE BROADBENT, Counnselors.

	With loving remembrance, we record the demise on
Sunday July 25th 1885 at the residence of her parents in
Santaquin, Genevie Lovina, daughter of Thomas and
Mary Jane Broadbent, aged 10 years, 1 month and 10
days. Summoned by the angel of death away from the
loving arms of her affectionate parents, brothers and sis-
ters. She was beloved by all who knew her and a bright
intelligent little girl. In the Primary Association she was
always punctual at her meetings.
	Truly of "Such is the Kingdom of Heaven."

		For her sweet face so dear to every eye,
		That knew and loved her in the days gone by;
		With love too strong, for even death to sever,
		That will live on through endless years forever.

	As God in His wisdom has seen fit to call another of
His precious jewels, we, as officers and members of the
Primary Association, unanimously adopt the following
resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the parents, brothers and
sisters in their heavy bereavement and we tender them
our heartfelt sympathy.
	May her many virtues be emulated by the members of
our association so that her noble example may stimulate
others to a life of virtue and usefulness,
	Resolved that we adopt these resolutions as a token of
respect, that we present a copy to her parents, and pub-
lish the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a
copy on our record.
		FLIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
		AGNES CLARK,
		ANNIE BROADBENT, Counselors


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The cholera still continues to rage unabated
in Spain and the panic and the suffering is
dreadful in the extreme. The scourge has al-
ready reached France where there has been
much fear and many deaths, and a telegram
has been received at washington saying cholera
had broken out in Japan.
	Patents were issued to women inventors
during the week ending Aug. 4, 1885:
	Mary M. Burchfield, Kingston, Ill., Steam
Fruit Dryer.
	Lucinda Fuller, Detroit, Mich., Window-
Sash.
	Caroline M. Hills, Chicago, Ill., Paint-Pot.
	Charlotte A. McGee, Jackson, Mich., Corset,


On the 25th ult a terrible cyclone struck
Charleston S. C. and the damage to crops,
valuable property, shipping etc., is estimated
something over a million dollars. The storm
was very severe at other points doing much
damage to houses, crops, mills etc., Jacksonville
Florida being one of the places which suffered
seriously by it.
	The Queen having signified to the Rev. J.
Baily, the Chairman of the festivities Com-
mittee at Cowes, that she would drive through
the town	*	*	with Prince and Princess
Henry of Battenberg, the townspeople replaced
the decorations which had been erected on the
occasion of the Royal marriage on Thursday
last, and many additional banners and flags
were displayed from every point, from the
floating bridge to the High-street, together
with many beautifully decorated and appropri-
ate mottoes and evergreens. The children of
the Sunday schools of the town, to the number
of two thousand, were assembled in the Mar-
ket-square, and the H (Cowes) Company of
the Isle of Wight Volunteers, with their band,
were also drawn up at the same point. Pre-
cisely at seven o'clock in the evening, the
Queen,, accompanied by the Royal pair, drove
through the High-street in a waggonette
amidst a large and enthusiastic assemblage,
who cheered heartily. The volunteers received
her Majesty with a Royal salute, while the
band played the National Anthem. Her
Majesty repeatedly bowed her acknowledg-
ments of the loyal greeting of the visitors and
townspeople. The Royal party also drove
through Newport last evening, and in anticipa-
tion of the visit the streets were decorated and
crowded with thousands of people, who hearti-
ly greeted her Majesty and the Royal bride
and bridegroom, who repeatedly bowed their
acknowledgements.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Obstetric Class.

Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
WILL COMMENCE HER
Semi-Annual Class, Sept. 21,
In her large and well-appointed Office, In Godbe,
Pitts & Co’s Drug Store.

Lecture at 4 p. m.
Charts, Mannikin and all apparatus for teaching.
As Electricity Is a great adjuvant to the Healing
Art, and possessing one of the best Batteries, lessons on
its applications and use in medicine will be given the
students.

Tuition for Three Months,	$30.00.
Books, (Three)	13.50.

	A number of applications are usually received after
the class has begun; it is earnestly hoped those desiring
to attend will be at the opening.

For Sale at this Office,

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c. “
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	$1.00	“
	“ Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	“
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE	
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco.	1.50	“

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods,Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP,
WILL COMMENCE HER
Class in Midwifery, SEPT. 23 ’85.

	Every advantage and attention will be given students
to secure their rapid advancement and proficiency in
their studies.

Tuition per Term, 	$10.00.
Books,	13.00.

Office and Residence, 34 Seventh East Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1885.	NO. 8.


"SAY TO THE RIGHTEOUS, ALL IS
WELL."

["Say ye to the righteous it shall be well with them, for
they shall reap the fruits of their doings."—ISAIAH.]

"Say to the righteous, All is well,"
Eternal justice doth not sleep,
Say to the hosts of Israel—
"The Holy One" His word will keep.

What if opperssion's waves run high?
What if the devil is not bound? 
Shall you or I "The Faith's deny,
And traitors unto heaven be found?

Lo! he is great, whate'er his state,
Who clings to truth though trampled down,
Despite the ban of mortal man—
An honest soul is Nature's crown.

And what is man, and who is he,
Who would our very thoughts control?
Who laughs to scorn the Deity?
And fain would crush th' immortal soul?

"Aha! aha!" these scorners boast,
"God tarries in His hiding place."
They challenge thus the Lord of Hosts.
And fling the guantlet in His face.

Fools! fools! Indeed, ye cannot read
Their thoughts who trust in heaven for aid,
And thus ye ridicule their need,
And hope to see the just dismayed.

Stand by the truth, ye Saints oppressed, 
Ye "outcasts" for the Gospel's sake;
Gird up your loins, endure the test,
Nor for one moment fear or quake.

Bonds and imprisonment and death—
The limit this of Satan's spleen.
And what is life? a passing breath,
The portal of a brighter scene.

Through tribulation's stormy seas
The noblest spirits enter heaven;
The martyr'd ones—to these, to these
Shall starriest crowns and thrones be given.

Lord!  help us, whatsoe'er we do,
"To run the race" unmoved by fear,
To keep the promised prize in view,
To sense, to see, "the goal" is near.

Our children, may they proudly claim—
If nothing else they own on earth—
A spotless name, devoid of shame,
A noble heritage of worth.

'Tis certain that on history's page
Integrity to truth shall shine,
And doubtless 'tis, man's puny rage
Shall praise Omnipotence divine.

God wills to prove His own elect,
To cleanse "the wheat" from ev'ry tare;
"The little flock" He'll still protect,
Who cast upon Him all their care.

Though earth and hell their powers ally—
Yea, though they seemingly prevail
Against the Saints of God Most High—
Jehovah's purpose will not fail.

"Say to the righteous, All is well,"
The darkest hour precedes the day;
Say to the hosts of Israel:
"The Kingdom" shall be yours for aye.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City.


PSALM.

	Thou who didst command Abraham to leave his native
land, and to separate himself from his father's house, Thou
art my God.


﻿Thou who didst so love the world as to give Thine Only
Begotten to suffer and die, to open the way that all who
yielded obedience to the Gospel He established might at-
tain to life eternal, Thou art my trust.
	Thou who hast sent forth Thine angel and restored the
Gospel in the fulness of its powers and ordinances, with
Apostles, Prophets, Pastors and Evangelists, as at the
beginning; and hast again committed the keys which Jesus
conferred on Peter, unto Thy servants, Thou art the God
whom I worship.
	Thou who hast sent forth Thy servants clothed with
authority to gather the honest of heart to the land which
Thou hast appointed for the gathering of the last days, and
the establishing of Thy Kingdom, Thou wilt accomplish
Thy purposes.
	In Thine own wisdom, and with outstretched hand,
Thou hast brought thy people to these mountain vales;
and here Thou hast inspired the hearts and nerved the
hands of thy sons and daughters, and through thy bles-
sing on their labors the sterile and forbidding desert is
yielding in its strength, and the barren wilderness is blosso-
ming as the rose
	Driven from the land that gave us birth, to the western
wilds, for an asylum of peace and religious liberty, which
for a season we enjoyed unmolested; "the accusers of the
brethren," like blood-thirsty hounds, scented our track
o'er the pathless desert, and sought out our far-off retreat.
	With wanton eyes and greedy hearts they lusted for the
possession of the hard-earned fruits of our untiring in-
dustry, and with measures concocted in the pest-house of
deceit, supported by falsehood, they have sought to sup-
plant us.
	All this, O Lord, Thou hast suffered, that the wicked
may fill their cup, and that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.
We know that persecution is a portion of the legacy which
the Messiah left to those who would follow Him.
	Therefore we will acknowledge thy hand, and without
fear or faltering, firmly maintain our integrity.
	Though the rod of oppression is laid heavily upon us,
and every avenue for escape should seem closed against
us, with no hand but Thine to deliver, Thou, O God, wilt
in Thine own time and way bring deliverance.
	Though the dark billows of persecuton swell high o'er
us, and threaten to swallow us up, we know assuredly that
when they shall have accomplished thy purpose, Thou
wilt say to the proud, upheaving waves, "Thus far shalt
thou go, and no farther."
	Though the wicked rise up in wrath against thine an-
nointed, and in bold defiance threaten to destroy thy
Priesthood from the earth as in a former period, Thou,
Lord, wilt provide a shield, and although it should be, as
it were in the last extremity, Thou hast established it upon
the earth for the last time, and it will never be removed.
	"Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts
with righteousness."
		E. R. S. S.
	Logan, August, 1885.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	While looking at the scenes portrayed on
the panorama the other evening, I could not
help contrasting the different circumstances
and surroundings of the Latter-day Saints
to-day compared with those of the earlier days
of the Church. The paintings seemed so real,
so life-like, that it seemed to me that I was
passing through those scenes and could un-
derstand the feelings they had while passing
through those dreadful days. They must have
been men and women possessed of heroic cour-
age and powers of endurance, with mighty
faith in God; yes, more than that, they must
have known for a certainty that God lived,
that this was His Church, and that those who
keep the faith and endure to the end will en-
joy eternal blessings, or else they never could
have endured so patiently the hardships and
awful sufferings that they experienced, the


contempt and scorn of associates whom they
loved, the hatred and malice of the wicked
who thirsted for their blood; the bitter perse-
cutions and insults to which they were sub-
jected were trials so severe that they must have
lived very close to the Lord, called upon Him
in the depths of humility, and He heard their
pleadings. He knew their integrity and He
sustained and strengthened them, and enabled
many of them to come to these peaceful val-
leys, where they have not been tried in the
same way. I felt that evening, and do now
say, God bless every one who remained true
through those trials, and be merciful to the
weak who fell by the way. I wondered what
I would have done, how I would have acted,
had I been living then. Would I have kept
the faith and been true? I said in my heart,
O God give me strength and courage to do
whatever I am called to pass through, that I
may be worthy to be numbered with those
noble men and women who laid the founda-
tion of this work. I feel very thankful that
the Lord brought my parents here, and that I
had the privilege of being born in Zion, and
of being taught the principles of the Gospel in
my youth. I feel thankful that I believed
them and endeavored to practice them while
I was young, for by so doing I have been
greatly blessed, and have gained a knowledge
that I know they are true. I know that God
hears and answers prayers. I know there is
no happiness, no pleasure or satisfaction in
doing wrong, but there is true happiness in
doing right. There is a spirit of peace and
contentment in the heart of those who live
pure and virtuous lives that cannot be ob-
tained any other way.
		MATTIE.
	Nephi.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the 5th we had the first rain of the season,
accompanied by thunder and lightning. It
cleared off fair in the afternoon, when some of
father's wagons were started out, going three
miles as far as his stacks. President Young
had sent his camp three or four miles ahead.
That evening another meeting was held at
Sister Sarah Ann's room, for those of the two
families that were not there the evening before.
	Conference was held, on the 6th, at the
stand, it being a warm pleasant day. 
	Wednesday.—Horace mentions his father's
packing their provisions, and says: "We made
the last packing arrangements to-day."
	On the morning of the 8th the rest of the
wagons moved out. Horace says: "Before
starting, Father Lott blessed Orson and my-
self, and gave us many good promises of health
and safety—that we should return to our
friends again, etc., etc. Started with my
wagon at 11 a. m., myself and Orson, and went
three miles, where the rest of the boys were
camped. Brother and Sister Kimball went
with us. Porter came up on horseback and
informed us that P. P. Pratt had just arrived
from England, and that John Taylor and Or-
son Hyde were soon expected." Father and
mother invited Horace to return in the car-
riage with them, and his father—Bishop


[Column 1]

Whitney—to spend the night, which he ac-
cepted, "leaving the wagon in charge of Orson
and little John." It was arranged for Horace
to drive and care for the horses, and Orson
was to attend to cooking and washing, etc.
	The morning of the 9th witnessed the final
departure of the Pioneers on their way to the
mountains. They were four days traveling
to the "Platte" river, to where I will follow
them, after which the journal closes at Winter
Quarters. Horace wrote:	*	*	* "Fair
weather for traveling. Brother Kimball,
Father, Brigham, and Dr. Richards started this
morning, and went in Brother Kimball's car-
raige. Orson drove my team, and I rode
Brother Brigham's house as far as his camp,
where we arrived about noon, seven miles
from home. Went on three miles further and
camped by the side of a beautiful spring,
having made ten miles to-day. Orson on
guard.
	"Saturday the 10th.—Fair day as usual.
Father did not at first intend going on with
us, but finally concluded to go to the 'Horn'
by Brigham and Heber's request. Travelled
about 15 miles to-day and encamped on the
prairie near a ravine, where we could get
water, about six miles from the 'Elk Horn.'
	"Sunday the 11th.—Fair day. Traveled
on and arrived at the 'Horn' about 2 p. m.,
and crossed the river on a raft drawn on the
opposite side by cattle, with the assistance of
ropes on either side. Brother Bullock, Dr.
Richard's clerk, took down the number of
wagons as they crossed, which amounted to
seventy-two. Went about a mile after cross-
ing down the stream and encamped—the
wagons formed in a line, our horses being
hitched to stakes, and fed on cottonwood
trees, besides their allowance of corn. Brother
Kimball told the brethren this morning he
hoped that they would not go hunting or fish-
ing, for if they did so, they should not be pros-
pered, as this was a day set apart for the
service of the Lord, not for trivial amuse-
ments. Stood on guard to-night—the last
watch."
	Monday the 12th.—Brothers Brigham, Kim-
ball, father, Brother Benson, O. Pratt, G. A.
Smith, Dr. Richards, and a number of others
went back to Winter Quarters. Before
starting, it was agreed by the council that the
remainder of us left behind should travel on
about twelve miles to the 'Platte,' in order to
get across an extensive bottom that intervened,
lest is should rain and make it bad going, ac-
cordingly we travelled on and encamped on
the banks of the Platte, the sun being about
two hours high. Formed our wagons in a
kind of semi-circle, under Stephen Markham's
supervision, who has the cannon in charge.
Brother Markham called the people together
this evening and told them it was the wish of
the Twelve that some should go ahead and
look out for a good track to follow. Father
Case, Jack Redden, and two others volun-
teered.	*	*	*
	Tuesday the 13th.—Father Case, J. Redden,
and the two others appointed went out. Re-
turned and reported this evening that they
had ridden for twenty or thirty miles, and
found a low marshy country in general.
	Friday.—The Presidency having returned,
the camp were called together and organized
—two captains of 100's, viz., Setephen Mark-
ham and A. P. Rockwood were appointed;
also five captains of 50's and fourteen captains
of 10's. There are 153 men and boys on the
list of pioneers, three women, and Lorenzo 
Young's two little boys, and 73 wagons."
	The names of the women were: Harriet
Young, Clarissa D. Young, and Ellen Sanders
Kimball. Horace speaks of Brother J. C.
Little who was among the late arrivals, bring-
ing some valuable presents from Colonel Kane
to President B. Young, father, Porter Rock-

[Column 2]

well, Father John Smith, and Aunt Sabra
Granger, an old nurse in Father Whitney's
family, to whom he sent a box of black tea.
He remembered a number more. Among
them was Don C., my husband's little brother,
to whom he sent a complete and valuable set
of fishing tackle, having seen him often during
his (the Colonel's) sickness at Cutler's Park.
	About 2 p. m. the camp started, and Father
Whitney, J. C. Little, William Kimball,
Joseph B. Nobles, Lyman Whitney, little John
Whitney, and others returned to Winter
Quarters, bringing the last mail from the
Platte. We were glad to learn that they had
gone on, thinking it would hasten their return
home, besides their stopping so near made it
seem much harder than as though they were
traveling on. But we were not slow to im-
prove the opportunities to correspond. Every
messenger was the bearer of letters and tokens
of affection while they remained there, for we
did not know when we should have the chance
again. How far they were going, or how long
would be our separation, no one could tell.
They were going beyond the trackless wastes
of the Great American Desert—to what was
then an almost unknown country, among the
wild beasts and red men of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Nor were they to turn back till they
found some suitable spot where they could
form a colony, and make homes that they
thought would not be coveted nor encroached
upon by their white brethren, who had so
mercilessly driven them from their midst. The
out look was indeed a gloomy one, and needed
all the faith and hope that could be mustered
to sustain us under the circumstances, for
death was sweeping away its victims, and want
and suffering seemed to be staring us in the
face, which required courage, and a mighty
effort to obtain the requisite amount, to be able
to bear up under it. That was among the
saddest chapters in my history; and it made so
vivid an impression that though years have
elapsed, and erased many a scene of later date
they have not been able to obliterate it from my
memory, nor can I ever dwell upon it without
weeping. But the Lord was very merciful, and
it was only through His interposition that so
many were spared to meet again in the flesh.
For all we were brought into tight places, and
many even to the point of death, there came
deliverance when most needed. There was al-
ways a bright star of hope glimmering between
the heavy clouds as they bore down upon us,
till at last it seemed as though the very
heavens were being opened to pour down a
healing balm upon the wounded and disconso-
late—proving that "Earth has no sorrows that
heaven cannot heal."


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"COULD YE NOT WATCH WITH ME
ONE HOUR?"

	These words of the Savior rose in my mind
last Sunday as I sat in the congregation at
the Tabernacle waiting for the service to
commence. As is usual, there was much low
talking going on, and I was so unfortunate as
to get seated before two men, and could not
avoid hearing their talk. I thought of the
"lash of small cords" by which the Savior
drove out of the temple those who bought and
sold in it, and His severe rebuking words
upon the occasion. In words, these two men
bought and sold and built houses, bought land,
sat in judgment on the market and other
business matters, and evidently forgot where
they were, and that a crowd were within hear-
ing, who had assembled to worship the great
Creator of all good; and to offer up grateful
hearts for all the blessings so bountifully be-
stowed on His creatures of every grade and
clime; who had also come to lay aside the
daily cares of life, its trading, and trafficing,
and merchandising—in fine, the whole routine

[Column 2]

of the "six days' labor;"  and to prepare by
silent communings for the receiving of the
emblems of the atonement spread out before
the eyes of the whole congregation. I query
if those talking men were even aware of those
holy emblems and the Presence which they in-
dicated! or if in partaking of them they would
fail to realize the why and wherefore of the
act!  Their worldly talk must have also dis-
tracted the thoughts of those around them
who were within hearing. I asked myself the
question, Is it possible these men bear the
Holy Priesthood? I would hope not. What
must strangers in the congregation think when
they are liable to hear just such discussions
as fell upon my ear? Can we feel injured if
they go away and say, "How ignorant these
Mormons are?" Most true, such conduct is
the personification of ignorance. In all the
churches of the world silence is ever observed
before commencement of the service, and shall
we, as members of the Church of Christ, fail
in this beautiful and speaking silence when in
His Holy Temple? I have ever felt the in-
cessant talking npon all sorts of topics, often
degraded to gossip, in our Tabernacle is dero-
gatory to Saints. I cannot throw the mantle
of ignorance over it—for the principles of our
holy religion ignore such uncouth rudeness—
and a true Saint has an intuitive compre-
hension of the "fitness of things," and has the
heavenly polish of the Gospel! This I in-
stantly discovered on my first introduction to
a Latter-day Saint, and I have in no instance
seen it fail. We profess to stand on a higher
platform than the world; yet in no other place
of worship did I ever see the latitude and
lightness exhibited as in our Tabernacle;
*	*	and we cannot feel injured when we
hear strangers in our midst condemn the light
nonsensical, gossiping talk that is carried on
every Sabbath Day in our House of God!
There we see the elements of the atonement
spread out before our eyes, covered by pure
white napkins, the cups that are to contain
the emblem of the spilt blood of our Re-
deemer, and shall the minds of the congrega-
tion be so insensate that they cannot concen-
trate their thoughts upon that tremendous
sacrifice which these elements typify? withdraw
their thoughts from the cares and small joys
of earth, and fix them for a time upon the
greatness and sublimity of eternity? or in His
own touching words, "Watch with Him one
hour?"
	Shall good manners mark everywhere in the
world a lady and a gentleman, especially in
the House of God, and shall it be noted that
in the Temple of the L. D. S. only are seen
and heard the thoughtless and the irreverent?
God forbid! Among them should especially be
seen "an outward and visible sign of an in-
ward and spiritual grace!" or by what can we
be judged? 
	"The sweet amenities" of life may certainly
be reciprocated in the House of God, kind
inquiries after the sick and afflicted would be
in character, or short remarks upon some of
the principles of our holy religion, in low soft
voices, but business and wordly cares should
all be left at home, that the mind may be able
to concentrate itself upon the holy rites we as-
semble to commemorate. It will one day be
said: "The Lord is in His Holy Temple, let
all the earth keep silence before Him!"
		HANNAH T. KING.
	August 27th, 1885.


"Nine young women lately received the de-
gree of B. A. at the graduation exercises of the
Royal University of Dublin."
	The American Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its seventeenth annual meeting in
Minneapolis, Minn., on Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday, Oct. 13, 14, 15.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOONTIDE.

INSCRIBED WITH LOVING TENDERNESS TO
SISTER MARY GRAY.

I am standing on the Summit of the years my feet have
	climbed,
I am standing on the Summit and the noontide bell hath
	chimed,
And I am gazing Eastward where life's morning sun arose,
Gazing back unto that sunrise through a maze of joys and
	woes.

Those stepping-stones to heaven the days, and months, the
	years,
Those stepping-stones, each laden with brightest hopes and
	fears,
Upon each I find some token of their having lived and
	died,
Upon each some blessed token, as a pearl left by the tide,

Sweeping inward from the ocena with its strong and mighty
	swell,
Sweeping inward to the shore where earthly mortals dwell,
Bringing its countless treasures from the deep sea's stormy 
	bed, 
Bringing its countless treasures, bearing back our lost and
	dead.

Here I find childhood's treasures, flowers so fresh and fair,
Here I find girlhood's treasures, bright eyes and sunny hair;
Hearts all so light and joyous with never a thought of pain,
Hearts all so light and joyous, Oh would they were so
	again.

Here I find tears and sobbing all through a weary night,
Here I find tears and sobbing, with a preayer for one ray of
	light,
Only one gleam from heaven, one word from our God
	above.
Only one gleam from heaven, and to know it was sent in
	love.

This cross that seems so heavy, so hard for me to bear,
This cross so very heavy, it into my soul doth wear,
And the thorns that pierce so deeply, hid in the flowers so
	bright,
Those thorns that pierce so deeply, and the gloom where I
	looked for light.

Yet I would not see the future, let it be a sealed book,
I would not see the future, I'm not brave enough to look,
Only I ask for courage each day my live to live,
Only I ask that courage and faith my God will give.

Still to press on in the pathway, that Christ our Lord hat
	trod.
Still to press on in the pathway, that will lead me back to 
	God,
Bearing like Him in meekness the cross so hard to bear,
Bearing like Him in meekness, that I the crown may wear.

		HOPE.
	September 8th, 1885.


[Column 1]

OBSERVATIONS AND REFLECTIONS.

	How many people there are in the world
who love the marvelous, who watch eagerly for
something out of the usual line, and grasp with
avidity that which is scandalous or exciting.
How many writers there are who love to pander
to this weakness of human nature. Let mis-
fortunes overtake a person, and how soon the
tide of popular opinion is turned against him.
How quickly everybody remembers that he has
done something they have disapproved of, and
few are ready to encourage him or condone his
offense. The tongue of slander is ready to
vilify him, and ears are ever open to catch the
sweet morsel. Let the finger of scorn be
pointed at an individual, and a thousand
fingers are raised, many of them more deserv-
ing of scorn perhaps than the victim who has
incurred the censure of popular opinion.
	Many think to avert suspicion from them-
selves by turning the attention of the public
to the sins of their neighbors. Let a person
fall under criticism, and how soon it becomes
the style of every ill-natured scribbler to vent
his spleen through the press. How many sins
are condoned so long as the mask is worn that

[Column 2]

covers them from the public eye; but let that
be torn away and his fellows will pounce upon
him like wolves on a wounded companion and
rend him! Let a person, or a people, become
unpopular, and what wonderful ingenuity is
exercised in concocting and spreading reports
to their injury, and how eagerly they are swal-
lowed by a class of people who are constantly
on the gap for some obnoxious draught.
Nothing is too unreasonable if it panders to
the taste of the wonder loving multitude.
Nothing too noxious to excite the morbid
curiosity and satiate the appetite of public
opinion. The sacredness of the family circle
is invaded, and sensitive hearts are exposed,
torn and bleeding, to the curiosity of the gap-
ing crowd. Stories are set afloat and circulated
through the press that make the alleged actors
gaze with astonishment at the ingenuity of
their defamers. Men holding offices of respon-
sibility and trust are given characters such
as angels of darkness should blush to record.
When reading some wonderful story do we
ever stop to say: What if it should not be so?
What if all these nauseous drugs which we
swallow so easily are, after all, only bread pills,
and have really no bearing on the vital ques-
tion at issue? How many innocent victims
would be spared suffering and shame if people
would only ask themselves the question, What
if it should not be so? I am often astonished
at the worn-out fables that are cherished and
reported about Utah. After listening to one
of those "terrible episodes" of "Mormonism,"
which is certainly too silly to repeat, I asked
my informant what he thought of such a story.
He said he thought if they did such things they
should all be killed off. But I said, "Where
are the Federal courts; why did they not at-
tend to it?" He supposed the courts did not
know of it. How then did it get in the papers?
That seemed to puzzle him a little. I told him
if such things could happen, and the courts
not bring the guilty parties to punishment,
they were certainly derelict in their duties.
It is surprising to see the venom displayed by
many otherwise intelligent people in regard to
our Church. I inquired at a bookstore for
Phil Robinson's little book called "Saints
and Sinners." I explained that it was a work
published by a correspondent of the New York
World, and was entirely unbiased, the writer
taking an unprejudiced view of the people and
the country. He said he would order the
book if I wanted it, but he must inform me
that he was highly prejudiced against the
people and would not allow the book on his
shelves. I wanted to quote to him the words
of Paul: "He that answereth a matter before
he heareth it, it is a folly and a shame unto
him." I merely said that perhaps he was un-
justly prejudiced and passed out.
	I find many true loving Christian people
who are laboring for Christ and His cause, and
who seem sincere in feeling that all who em-
brace Christianity are the children of promise,
and I do not feel like condemning such, or feel
that they will be cast out from the blessings of
our Father's Kingdom. Christ says, "Blessed
are the pure in heart for they shall see God;"
and are there not many pure in heart who can-
not understand the principles of the "Ever-
lasting Gospel?" They hold their right of
salvation through Christ, and who shall say
they have not their reward? How I wish I
could bear a testimony that would impress
their minds and led them to see the principles
of life and salvation, but they will not listen.
The whole country is watching the progress of
events in Utah, and considers every conviction
another victory against plural marriage. If I
speak of injustice they tell me there is no in-
justice in making people obey the law. If I
say some were trying to obey it, only support-
ing their wives and children as humanity would
dictate, they say it serves them right; they

[Column 3]

should never have married them; they knew
better; the courts were sent there to put down
polygamy, and no method can be illegal that
accomplishes that purpose. That is the feeling
I meet almost universally. Not a heart even
throbs with pity for the wives and children
thus ruthlessly thrown on the charity of a cold
and unfeeling world. No sympathy for the
men who are suffering in felons' cells for main-
taining and defending the women who have
confided themselves to their love and protec-
tion. How then can I give them credit for
that charity which stands so high as a Chris-
tian grace, and when I see the hardness of
their hearts and their unwillingness to listen to
any good of those who are striving to live their
religion as a brotherhood in Christ? I think
God knows best, and He will judge the nations.
		M. J. TANNER.


PERSONAL ADORNMENT.

	In the year 1770 a law was passed and duly
registered in France under Louis XV., which
read thus: "Whosoever, by means of red or
white paint, perfumes, essences, artificial teeth,
false hair, cotton wool, iron corsets, hoops,
shoes with high heels, or false hips, shall seek
to entice into the hands of marriage any male
subject of his Majesty, shall be prosecuted for
witchcraft, and declared incapable of matri-
mony."
	If such a law as the above were to be passed
by our law-makers, what a rustling there would
be among the ladies! Why, the Edmund's law
would be nowhere!
	But, putting aside the funny part of the
matter, let us look at the reality. I, for one,
think the French king was about right when
he thought that woman who were slaves to the
caprices of fashion were unfit for matrimony.
Certain it is, that if a woman is going to allow
her mind to be absorbed by the follies of the
day, her family will be neglected in some way.
Her children may be faultlessly clothed,
everything of the latest design, but where so
much attention is given to that, when is the
mind to receive its adornments and trimmings?
When do they find time (or, I might say take
the time) to lay up fresh beauties for our
mental development and cultivation? It is
quite safe to say not more than an hour a week
on an average.
	God has not blessed everyone with personal
beauty, but, with a very few exceptions, He
has blessed us all with bright intellects, and
for all His blessings we are in a measure ac-
coutnable for the use we make of them. And
are we to neglect the richest of all blessings
(the mind) merely that we may find time to
make what we think the necessary adornments
for our bodies that we may please for a while
till we have succeeded in catching a husband?
That is about the sum of it. If we watch we
can easily tell where this is more or less the
case. After the beauty of appearance has
fled, how miserable indeed must she be who
has devoted her time and means only to per-
sonal attractions. On the other hand, a
cultivated mind makes old age beautiful and
truly happy—a beauty and happiness that will
last through time and all eternity.
		H. A.


The Association for the Advancement of
Women will hold its thirteenth Congress in
Des Moines, Ia., Oct. 7, 8, 9, with executive
sessions at 10 a. m., and public sessions at 2.30
and 8 p.m.
     "The civic commemoration of the death of
General Grant will take place at Tremont
Temple on the afternoon of September 29.
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe will read an original
ode, and Henry Ward Beecher will deliver an
oration."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
	THE DAYS IN WHICH WE LIVE.

	These are remarkable days indeed. The times
which “try men’s souls,” and women’s too.
Verily the prophecies are being fulfilled, and one
cannot but see it if his eyes are open to that which
is transpiring around him. In the midst of such
occurrences as are daily taking place, how careful
should each individual be to keep on safe ground;
to fulfill every duty, that the adversary may not
gain any advantage over him; to cultivate
humility and patience, for the Bible says: “Pride
goeth before a fall," and it might be dangerous
even to stumble in a time like this, for there are
many pitfalls which have a fair covering, and the
foolish and unwary may be deceived if they have
not the spirit of discernment, for there are many
false spirits that seek to destroy and lead into bye
and forbidden paths the children of the covenant.
Therefore it behooves all Latter-day Saints to set
a stronger watch upon the children of Zion, and
parents to be doubly diligent and mindful, lest in
some unforeseen way, the enemy who is most
artful and cunning allure them from the straight
and narrow path which the Gospel has marked
out, into the broad highway of sin and folly, where
so many are drifting, carried thither by pride,
vanity, love of gold, and desire for popularity.
But remember all these are only temporary, and
please for a time, and very often are like “Dead
Sea apples,” fair without, but within are full of
bitterness, and how many have found after follow-
ing in pursuit of some bewildering fancy, only
alas too late, that they have lost beyond recall the
Jewel dearer to them than life itself, and what has
been gained? Nothing lasting; only a bitter ex-
perience, a harvest of sorrow after the sowing of
the seeds of selfishness. There are many “who
lay in wait to deceive,” to tempt with false pre-
tences the virtuous and pure from the path of
rectitude, and their arts and subterfuges are more
entangling than the web the spider weaves to catch
the silly flies. We smile at the simple flies that
are so easily caught, but the filmy webs that are
not perceptible to the young and unsophisticated,
often blinded as they are by the bewildering
glamour of fancy, are wrought by the skill and
cunning of those who are adepts at deception,
“whose steps lead down to hell;” in these the
innocent and thoughtless are often entangled, and
price ensnared it is seldom indeed they can en-
tirely free themselves.
	This is, in the strictest sense of the word, an
age of licentiousness; let him who can close his
eyes to the fact, and when the youth of Zion make
pleasure-seeking the aim of life, what can be ex-
pected?  The Lord has gven to His people in
this dispensation certain principles to be observed,
in order that He may have a remnant upon the
earth that will honor Him, a covenant people who
will be pure, and it behooves those who have ac-
cepted the Gospel to be humble, prayerful; and
obedient, that they may be able to stand in the
midst of trials and temptations, and stem the cur-

[Column 2]
rent of wickedness that is flooding the earth, and
so fortify Zion against the encroachments of sin
and crime, that the Saints may not be contamin-
ated by the evils thal are threatening the nations
of the earth with final overthrow and destruction.
	The youth of Zion should choose good company,
shun evil associates as they would a loathsome
disease, that can only kill the body, but the other
might eventually lead to the loss of all that is
worth living for.  The young cannot be too well
instructed in those things which tend to purity of
life and character, nor too closely watched over
and guarded in all their walk and conversation.
The strictest honesty and uprightness should be
observed, remembering the sacred covenants un-
der which they were born, the great mission they
ar. expected to perform, and the high and holy
destiny that awaits those who maintain their in-
tegrity to the Kingdom of God.
	It seems that every variety of wickedness is
sought to be introduced into the midst of this
people, and assuredly are the words of the Pro-
phet coming to pass who said, “Let us look upon
Zion that she may be defiled!” But to those who
observe the signs of the times, and who keep the
commandments given, God will give a portion of
His Holy Spirit, that they may foresee the evil,
and hide themselves from it.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Elizabeth 
Howard and Dr. Romania B. Pratt attended the 
Sisters' Conference in Tooele, on the 12th and 
13th insts. 

	THE Primary Fair of this Stake will open in the 
Social hall on Thursday, Sept. 17th, under the 
supervision of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson and her 
counselors, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells and Mrs. 
Camilla C. Cobb. 

	SISTER Eliza R. Snow Smith returned to Logan 
on the 11th inst., to resume her labors in the 
Temple, where she had previously been laboring 
for some time.  Though so far advanced in years, 
she is enjoying good health, and her mind is  as 
bright and active in years gone by.

	THE Relief Society Conference of this Stake 
will be held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly 
Rooms of Friday, Sept. 18th; and on Saturday, 
19th, the Primary Conference will be held in the 
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at 10 
a. .m.; and the Young Ladies Conference will 
convene at 2 p. m. in the Fourteenth Ward. 

	ON Thursday, the 3rd, we attended a Primary
meeting in the 21st Ward, Mrs. Mary Davis pre-
siding.  The children were orderly, and rendered 
their exercises very creditably, and speeches 
suited to the occasion were made by the visitors 
present, among whom were Mrs. Hannah T. King,  
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Mrs. Emma Toone, Mrs. 
Ellen C. Clawson, and others.  The singing exer-
cises were specially fine.  Sister Davis and coun-
selors deserve great credit for their energy and 
diligence in advancing the children, and promoting 
their spiritual improvement.


[Column 1]	
	VISIT TO SANPETE, AND MEETINGS.

	On Thursday morning, September 10th, we
started on a short visit to the sisters in Sanpete
Stake, expecting to attend the Conference of
Relief Society at Manti the following day.  At
Nephi we were joined by Mrs. Mary Pitchforth,
President of the Relief Society in Juab Stake, and 
together we journeyed onward to Moroni by train.
Arriving at Moroni, we dined at the Bishop's, and
a carriage was in waiting to convey the party to
Manti.  Our party consisted of four ladies and a 
little boy to drive, Eddie Christianson, a fine little
fellow and a very good charioteer.  Mrs. Deborah

[Column 2]
Irons joined us at Moroni, and Mrs. Ella Empey,
who, by the way, had been a traveling companion
all the way from Salt Lake, made up a very plea-
sant part for the ride to Manti.  We halted at
President Peterson's at Ephraim, and staid long
enough to rest the horses and take supper with
them,  and afterwards drove on to Manti.  The
next morning, Friday, September 11th, the Quar-
terly Conference of the Relief Society of Sanpete
Stake convened in the Council House at Manti,
Mrs. M. A. Hyde presiding.  There were present
of the brethren President Maiben, Patriarch J.
G. Bigler, of Nephi, Bishops and others.
	As the secretary did not arrive with the minutes
and reports, the morning was occupied in speak-
ing.  President Maiben offered up a very eloquent
prayer, and the singing was excellent.  The 
President, Mrs. Hyde, made a brief address, and
was followed by Mrs. Jane Casto, President of
South Ward Relief Society, and Sister Deborah
Irons, counselor in the Relief Society at Moroni.
Each of these gave a good report of the respective
branch to which she belonged.
	The meeting was then addressed by Mrs. Amy
L. Bigler and Mrs. Mary Pichforth, of Nephi,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of this city.
	President Maiben made some closing remarks,
expressing his appreciation of the labors of the
Relief Society, and encouraging the sisters to per-
severe in doing good.  Choir sang in a very
impressive manner "How beauteous are their feet,"
etc.  Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca Wanham.
	At the afternoon meeting two or three wagon
loads of peopel had come over from Ephraim—
President Peterson, Bishops Anderson and 
Dorius, among others.  Elder Frank Taylor was
also present to take charge of the choir.  Meeting
opened with spirited singing, and Bishop Ander-
son offered prayer.  After singing again, the
young secretary, Miss Mary Hyde, read the 
minutes of the previous Conference, which were
approved, and the statistical and financial reports
from various parts of the Stake.  Counselor Sarah
Peterson was the first speaker.  Her remarks were
principally upon the financial condition of the
Society, and said though they had over 5,000
bushels of wheat in the granaries, that was very
little if a famine was impending.  She also spoke 
of the factory that the sisters had anticipated
building, and spoke with much earnestness on
home manufacture and other similar subjects.
	President Hyde made some remarks on the
situation in which the people are placed at the
present time, and gave good advice and instruc-
tion to those associated with her in the Relief
Society, etc.
	Mrs. Hansen and Mrs. Ellen Dorius, of
Ephraim, and Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson, of Foun-
tain Green, represented the Society over which
each presided as in a favorable condition, and
added a testimony of the truth of the Gospel.  The
choir sang "Beautiful Home."
	Mrs. Rebecca Wareham, of Manti North Ward,
gave a report of the Society, and spoke upon the
appreciation of blessings, and alluded to the
storing of wheat, the exertions that had been
made in times past to glean, referred to the culti-
vation and manufacture of silk, and at the close
of her remarks, to the signs of the times.  Said
when we were driven from Nauvoo we were 
driven to a better land, etc.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the special mis-
sion of the sisters, of the labors in which they
were called to assist, of home manufacture; on
charity and integrity to all the principles of the
Gospel.
	President Canute Petersen referred to the exer-
tions that had been made to establish home in-
dustries, especially a tannery, and suggested the
appointing of a committee to ascertain the proba-
bilities of having a factory.  Nominated his
counselors, John B. Maiben and—Beal, as two
of said committee, and that they should have the


[Column 1]﻿ 
privilege of naming five, others to assist them.
Spoke mainly upon the persecutions the people
are enduring and said many good things, and
encouraged all to persevere, for those who would
keep a celestial law might expect to inherit a
celestial glory. Said what need the Saints care if
even a heavy storm does come and rock them
about, they have no fear as to the landing on safe
ground.		
	President Hyde put the motion of President
Petersen in reference to a committee of seven to
vote, and it was unanimously carried.
	Bishop Anderson of Ephraim then spoke a
short time upon the duties and labors of the
sisters and stated some of his views on the sub-
jects that had been introduced during the meeting.
	President Hyde adjourned the Conference until
the 19th of December, to be held at Ephraim.
Singing, “For the strength of the hills we bless
thee.” Benediction by Patriarch Bigler.
	After meeting we had the privilege of going
through the Temple and environs, and were much
interested in all that we saw and heard. Presi-
dent Maiben and wife invited us to drive out with
them to the “warm springs,” a short distance out
on the route to Mayfield. We accepted the invi-
tation with pleasure, and thoroughly enjoyed the
romantic scenery, the hills and vales, the fields of
grain, and the new mown hay with its ever grate-
ful fragrance, all added to the consciousness of
pleasure, and for the time we gloried in the
beauties of nature. In the evening we had a pleasant
call from Mr. Harrington, editor of the Manti
Sentinel, a new enterprise in that locality.
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Sanpete
Stake convened on Saturday morning, September
12th, Miss Helen Armstrong presiding. Minutes
of the previous Conference were read by the
secretary, Mrs. Parley Petersen, and general re-
marks were made by the young President calcu-
lated to give encouragement.
	Most excellent remarks were made by Mrs.
Mary Pitchforth to the young ladies upon im-
proving and educating their minds.
	One of the counselors of the Central Board
being present, spoke upon true womanhood, gave
excellent advice, and counseled the girls to
qualify themselves to be good and true wives and
mothers, and spoke of the motto of the Associa-
tion being improvement, and perfection the aim.
	The secretary read an essay on fashions, etc.,
which was very creditable.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the method of con-
ducting the meetings, urged the secretaries to
make their minutes brief and as perfect as pos-
sible, entreated the young girls to be prompt in
every duty, and be careful what company they
kept, avoid all excesses and the keeping of late
hours, which  often led to evil. Spoke of the
influence young ladies might exercise upon so-
ciety, and advised them to set up a high standard
of excellence to attain to.
	Miss Olive Lowry recited in a very expressive
manner a poem entitled "One Stalk of Wheat."
	President Maiben gave a brief address, exhort-
ing the young girls to improve the opportunities
now afforded them of laying up wisdom and
knowledge, and alluded to the subjects which had
been treated upon.
	Remarks were made suitable to the occasion by
Patriarch Bigler.
	Elder Frank Taylor made a few spirited re-
marks at the close of the meeting, giving the
young girls some excellent advice. Singing and
benediction.
	Primary Conference at 2 p.m., Mrs. Helena
Madsen presiding. The exercises of the children
were well rendered, and the singing was heavenly.
We expect hereafter to publish in detail the
exercises.
	The same evening we attended a general meet-
ing at Ephraim, in their large and commodious

[Column 2]
meeting house; a very full attendance of brethren
and sisters.
	Sunday morning.—Visited the Sunday Schools
of the North and South Wards, Ephraim, and in
the evening met with the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion and Relief Society at Moroni.
	Monday.—We met with the Relief Society at
Nephi at 12 a.m., and dined at the residence of
Mrs. Rebecca Udall, with quite a pleasant party
of ladies. Altogether the visit to Sanpete was a
very pleasant affair, and we shall ever remember
the kind people we have met and associated with
in that Stake of Zion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	﻿FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:—It would give me great pleasure
to send you a few lines from this far-off land that
would be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT,but as I am not gifted in that direction
you will have to look for that merit from some
other source. I can, however, tell you that the
EXPONENT comes to us as a most welcome visitor
in a strange and foreign land. We prize it not
only as a messenger coming fresh from our moun-
tain home, where so many of our dear ones are,
but as a valued and interesting companion and
friend, and an instructor of great worth. Our
foreign society here is very limited, and more so
at present than usual, as nearly all the Elders are
out among the people on this and the other islands
laboring in their callings as missionaries, while
the President and two or three brethren in charge
of important interests on the plantation, and three
foreign sisters with our little children, are all that
remain on the place, in company with the little
colony of native Saints, most of whom have
gathered here from other parts of the islands.
	Brother Farr has the general oversight and
management of this mission, and of the business
of this plantation.
	Brother Jos. S. Hyde, one of the sons of the late
Apostle Orson Hyde, is teaching an English
school here at the gathering place, and has about
49 pupils; all except one of these are Hawaiian
children from six to eighteen years of age, and
many of them are bright and intelligent, and are
making commendable progress in their study of
the English tongue.	
	Brother S. Allred has charge of the live stock
of the plantation, and furnishes the colony, es-
pecially those employed on the plantation, with
the principal part of their beef.
	Brother A. Westly is the “master mechanic,”
and finds ample employment in keeping the
machinery, fanning implements, etc., etc., in run-
ning order.		
	The Saints here have the finest looking meeting
house that I have seen on this island, outside of
Honolulu. It is certainly a credit to the place
and the builders.
	Their old meeting house is now being used
principally as a school-house, but still serves for
Priesthood meetings, testimony meetings, meet-
ings of the various associations, and for ordinary
purposes. Meetings are held in the large new
house from 10 to 12 every Sabbath morning and
from 8 to 5 p. m. The Saints meet in the old
meeting house for prayer and testimony. These
services are always conducted in the Hawaiian
language, the congregation being almost exclu-
sively natives. I notice that the native people,
both men and women, seem to be very fluent and
ready speakers. I have never yet seen either man
or woman falter for a word or hesitate in giving
expression to their thoughts. They are evidently
great talkers, and are very earnest and emphatic
in their gestures, but I will not now try to describe
the people. Besides the general meetings on the
Sabbath, Sunday School is held from 8 to 9.30
a. m., Mutual Improvement Associations meet

[Column 2]
between 1 and 3 p. m., and in the evening there is
a meeting for the foreign Elders and their families,
generally held in the mission house, occupied by
reading the Scriptures and commenting ther eon.
The reading of the Scriptures is joined in by both
the brethren and sisters, and is in English, but
the singing and prayer is generally done in the
native language, so as to aid the Elders in their
study thereof. There is a very efficient female
Relief Society at Laie, of which Sister Kapo
Keaakolo is the President, and Sister Kaahahui
and Napapale are her counselors. Sister Hana
Naihe is the secretary and Sister Kekuewa Moses-
the treasurer.
	There are three other societies on this island,
at Kahana, about eight miles from here, and at
Honolulu and Waikiki. There are also one or
more societies each on the island of Hawaii,
Maui, Molokai, and  Kauai, all in more or less
efficient working condition.
	At the last April Conference the General Presi-
dency of the Relief Society for the mission were
chosen as follows: E. Farr, President; Kaheaana
Kealakaihonua and Esther Kalua Coles, coun-
selors. The two counselors, who are very faithful
and intelligent native sisters, recently returned
from visiting the Relief Society of north-eastern
Hawaii, a conference over which Brother R. V.
Miller is presiding, consisting of the district of
Kohala Hamakua and Hilo, where they organized
and reorganized several branches, some of which
had become a little dilapidated for the need of
proper care and pruning.
	They contemplated making a trip on the same
business during this month to the island of
Kauai. Their expenses are borne by the Relief
Society, and as these sisters are excellent
speakers, and possessed of more than ordinary
intelligence, and of an excellent spirit they are
very efficient missionaries, as well as faithful
laborers in the society.
	At this place (Laie) there is a very commodious
and convenient frame building, erected by the
organizations of the islands, designed for the
assistance and convenience of such as might need
a temporary dwelling place on coming to the
gathering place, until they could make permanent
arrangements for themselves, and for the general
purposes of the Society at headquarters.
	I am happy to say we are all in the enjoyment
of good health, and peace and the good spirit seems,
to prevail.
	God bless you and the EXPONENT, and all the
faithful and true hearted in Zion. May the dark
clouds of persecution which seem to be gathering
blackness over our fair land, threatening devasta-
tion and sorrow, soon be dispersed by the over-
ruling power of God, in whom we trust, and yet
shower blessings upon the heads of the faithful,
instead of the destruction which they now threaten,
is my earnest prayer.  	
	Very Respectfully, Your Sister in the Gospel,
	J.
Laie, Oahu, S. I., Aug. 12d, 1885.


YOUNG JOSEPH. 

	Young Joseph as he is called, is at the present,
time in Utah, and because he is ths son, of the
Prophet there may be those who would naturally
enough wish to see and hear him mainly because
he is the son of the Prophet Joseph. But al-
though he is the son of the Prophet, he is at the
present time at the head of a Church composed-
mostly of apostates from the true Church of
Christ and our avowed enemies seeking in our
midst whom they may destroy.
	They are, or the most of them, are apostates of
the darkest hue. They have not only apostatized
from the true Church but they seek to destroy it
and agitate a warfare against the people of God,
who have retained their faith in the Gospel.
	The Josephites claim to be guided by


the "Doctrine and Covenants" and are carrying out
the work commenced by the Prophet Joseph. I
once listened to one of their elders for a few mo-
ments, who was talking to a few persons who had
been enticed together to hear what he had to say
when there was a pause in the conversation. I
asked him the following questions which he
answered.
	Do you believe in sending missionaries to the
world to preach?
	Only a few at the present time.
	Do you believe in the gathering of the Saints?
	Not now, but will by and by.
	No, and do not expect to do so untill we get to
Jackson County.
	Do your people pay any tithing?
	No we do not.
	Do you believe in celestial marriage?
	No.
	Do you believe in plural marriage?
	No we surely do not.
	No, said I, nor in any of the fundamental princi-
ples of the work of God, as taught by the Prophet,
Joseph, and I left him.
	They frequently quote the saying of Paul:
"Prove all things and hold fast to that which is
good." When we know that they are apostates
and are full of animosity toward the Church of
Christ and would destroy it if they could, and that
they are full of darkness (for they cannot take the
Holy Ghost with them) and, as Jesus said, "how
great is that darkness;" when we know that they
want to draw down with themselves as Satan does
all they can to destruction and nothing to give to
us but the filth of apostacy, why should we wish
to prove them or hear them preach.
	Now, I say, let us not go after them, for if we
do we therby bid them God speed, and His
Spirit will not go with us, and we may not be en-
abled to find it again for (there are principalities
and powers above over which we have no con-
trol) or if we should have made a blotch upon
the great white sheet spread out before us on
which to write our character for eternity. If we
go upon Satan's ground he will claim his own as
he did with Moses because he sinned. Then as
Paul admonishes us, when we think we stand let
us take heed lest we fall and shun the very appear-
ance of evil.
	S. F. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	R. S. REPORT

	EPHRAIM, COLORADO.
	The first annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ephraim Ward of the San Luis
Stake of Zion, held in the meeting house, Aug.
11, 1885.
	The house was very handsomely decorated
with evergreens and  flowers from Sister Bodelia
Poulson's flower garden.  There were many
beautiful quilts of all kinds of patterns hang-
ing up—stockings, linseys, laces, embroideries,
tidies, and pillow-slips, and one lovely knitted
bedspread knit by Sister L. M. Thoms, and
other nice things too numerous to mention.
Prest. A. M. Rasmussen presided in the meet-
ing.  Singing by choir.  Prayer by A. H. 
Rasmussen. Singing. Rollcalled, 25 mem-
bers present, 32 enrolled.  Minutes of the pre-
vious meeting read and approved.  Statistical
and financial report was then read.
	Prest. A. M. Rasmussen then gave thanks
for the decorating of the house, and gave very
good instructive advice and counsel, exhorting
us to press forward in future as in times past.
Several of the other sisters bore their testi-
monies and gave very good instructions.
	This Bishop and Counselors, Home Mis-
sionaries N. S. Whitney and Joseph Hunsaker,

[Column 2]
our school teacher, and Brother H. C. Heiselt
made excellent remarks.  Each bore a testi-
mony to the good spirit which was in our
midst.  Gave other good instructions.
	The following named officers were then sus-
tained in their positions.  A. M. Rasmussen,
president; Mary Coray and Mena Cornum,
counselors; Annie Otteson, secretary; Annie
Cornum, assistant secretary; Sorsena Heiselt,
treasurer.  Singing by choir.  Benediction by
the President; after which all, numbering
about 90, went to Sister Bodelia Poulson's 
where the tables were spread with abundance
of good things and dainties of all kinds, and
in the evening went forth in the dance, enjoy
ing ourselves very much, until 12 o'clock, when
all retired. We have a very peaceable com-
munity, living at peace with our enemies more
than is generally the case at present.  Crops
generally look well, and if frost keeps off we
shall be blessed with a bounteous harvest better 
than heretofore.
	Your Sisters in the Gospel,
	A. M. RASMUSSEN, Prest.
	ANNIE OTTESON, Sec.

	REORGANIZATION
	A meeting of the First Ward Relief Society 
was held in the First Ward meeting house on
Thursday, Sept. 3rd 1885.  There were pre-
senr, besides the officers and members of the
Relief Society, Bishop Joseph Warburton and
his counselors, Joseph Booth and Alexander
Steel.  The President, Sister Miriam G. Chase,
resigned her office as President on account of
old age, and the treasurer, Sarah J. Sement
also.  It was found necessary to reorganize the
Society, whereupon the following officers were
elected, and were set apart by the Bishop and
his counselors.  Margaret F. Steel, President;
Annie Young and Jane E. Van Tassel; coun-
selors; Annie S. Musser, secretary; Mary W.
Musser, treasurer; Caroline Grouch, President
of the Teachers. 

	UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of Relief Society of
Utah County, held August 28th, 1885—Presi-
dent Mary John presiding with her counselors.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer. The
minutes of former Conference were read by
secretary; also reports from the different
branches throughout the county etc.
	President John in her remarks said we are,
according to our report, great helps to our
brethren in many ways—in helping to build
Temples, Tabernacles, and in caring for the
sick and the afflicted, the poor and the needy;
and although we have no visitors with us
to-day, I feel that we can edify one another.
We will hear verbal reports from the Presi-
dents of the several branches of the Relief
Society of the Stake, and this afternoon we
expect to be favored with the company of some
of the brethren who will speak to us. Since
our last Conference we have sustained another
loss in the deat of Sister Beebe, who was our
treasurer, as also President of the Silk Associ-
ation of this Stake.
	The Relief Society of the county was repre-
sented, with but few exceptions, by the respec-
tive Presidents, the reports being favorable as
to an increase of faith and good works, and a
determinaton to press forward to the end and
gain salvation and eternal lives.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff spoke of the loss we
had sustained since our last Conference in the 
death of Sister Hester Ann Beebe; and said in
the last two years we have been called to
mourn the loss of three of our dear sisters who
were wont to meet with us here at this stand
—Sister Margaret A. Gluff, counselor, and our
beloved Ma Smoot, our President, and now
Sister Beebe, our treasurer, who was also Stake
President of the Silk Association of Utah

[Column 3]
County. Sister Cluff exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in attending these meetings, and also
the fast meetings, and said the good these
organizations are doing will never be esti-
mated until the great day of reckoning; ex-
horted mothers to guard their children, pray
with them, and teach them to pray, etc.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session was opened by the usual
exercises.  After a few remarks from Counselor
Marilla Daniels, the time was occupied by the 
brethren of the Presidency of the Stake.
	President H. H. Gluff being the first
speaker, spoke of our present persecution as
one of the greatest evidences of the truth of
this work.  God's purposes are peculiar, and
in direct opposition to the plans of man.  We
must maintain and promote the interests of 
this people, etc.
	President David John followed with good
counsels to all.
	President A. O. Smoot heartily endorsed the 
teachings we had received, and gave more
good counsel in regard to keeping out of
debt, and in regard to teaching the children
to be neat, industrious, humble and prayerful,
and not to follow after the fashions of
Babylon, etc.
	After a few more remarks from President
Mary John, Conference adjourned for three
months.  Benediction by Prest. A. O. Smoot.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.


Y. L. M. I. A. ﻿REUNION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Fourth Ward,
Ogden, held a grand reunion on Wednesday,
August 26th, 1885.  It was in honor of the
parents of the members of the Society, and was
held in the meeting-house and in the pavilion
on Lester Park. At the meeting in the fore-
noon some excellent exercises were given in
the meeting-house. Sister Ruthinda E. Monch,
who has for six years been the President of the
association and given the utmost satisfaction,
resigned her position, which was accepted. At
the close of the forenoon meeting one of the
finest feasts ever given in Ogden awaited the
people in the pavilion. It was prepared by the
members. Three hundred persons feasted from
the good things, and there was much left which
was given to the poor. Among the prominent
persons present were: President L. W. Shurt-
liff and counsel; Sister Jane S. Richards, Stake
President, of the Relief Society; Sister Sarah
A. Herrick, Prest. Y. L. M. I. A.; Hon. Joseph
Stanford and wife, Hon. Jos. A. West and
wife, and presidents of the city societies. After
dinner a fine programme was carried out in the
pavilion, which had been beautifully decorated
for the occasion. The exercises were of the
highest order. Speeches were made by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards and several of the
brethren. Sister Monch received deserved
credit for her diligent labors in behalf of the
association. In the evening nearly one hun-
dred couples enjoyed themselves greatly in a
pleasant party in the pavilion. The kindliest
feeling prevailed throughout. We give below
a well written essay on “The Object of the
Reunion,” written and read in the afternoon
by Mrs E. H. Anderson.

	OBJECT OF OUR REUNION.
	It seems hardly necessary to state the object
of a meeting of this class. It gives its own, on
the face of it. To write of the object of our
gathering to-day is like writing an introduc-
tion to a preface. But since it has been alloted
to me, there can be no harm in an expression
that may explain more fully, perhaps, than
the pleasant spirit that animates us all, why
we are assembled here on this occasion.


A reunion is a meeting of associates, and
may be for specified purposes.  Reunions are
held to meet old friends, to celebrate events,
to show respect for classes, people, or societies.
Our meeting to-day is a reunion to show re-
spect, in every sense of the word, to our fathers
and mothers whom we have invited to spend a
few hours with us.  While we trust we have so
conducted ourselves that our parents are well
aware that we venerate, love, and respect them,
yet we have invited them here to show that the
same regard which we cherish for them pri-
vately, we delight to show them in the society 
of our friends and the public.
	There is sweet melody in the sound of father
and mother.  We love to pronounce these
words.  The sound delights us as the merry
ripple of the brook; and we love them as the 
return of spring with the music of birds. When
we think of their labors for us, none among us 
can fail to feel the importance of their mission,
nor see the magnitude of their works.  They
have done many things for our good.  In re-
gard to parents, we are somewhat differently
situated from many of the children of the
earth.  Our parents were reformers.  They
marked out for themselves, early in life, a path
which varied from that in which the majority
of mankind trod, and for this innovation re-
ceived the jeers of the cold world.  They kept
steadfast, however, for their guide was the
Lord, and their trust the power of Omnipotence.
There is no necessity here to more than re-
mind the audience of the cares, labors, trials,
temptations and obstacles that have silvered
the hairs of the noble men and women whose
labors have brought us peace and plenty. 
They are too well known to need recounting.
The lesson we may learn, however, from their
experience should not be passed over so easily
and so lightly.  In all their tribulation they
were yet prosperous and contented.  This
prosperity and contentment sprang from their
obedience to God and to the whisperings of the
Holy Spirit,  so that in all their adversity they
could yet rejoice and praise God.  Through
His blessings they have made the desert waste
bloom with the prosperity of civilization. Their
homes have been blessed with children who
have grown up in the fear of the Lord, while
all around the Giver of all good has smiled
upon them with prosperity.  In common with
them, we enjoy all these mercies to-day, and
while so doing, it is highly proper to remember
the circumstances that brought these about, 
the vicissitudes that createdthem under the
power and guidance of God.  It is proper to
meet together, and, reflecting upon the past,
remember that it is our parents' adversity
which has led to our prosperity; their inspira-
tion which has led to our knowledge; their 
faith and works which inspire us to diligence
in the great work which lies before us.  It is
proper and well that we meet together in re-
union in honor of our parents, to show that we
appreciate what they have done for us, that
the love of their labors, toils, trials, is not for-
gotten by their children.  We cannot do
enough to show our appreciation, but they may
rest assured that we love them.  As sons and
daughters of such noble sires—men and 
women who battled and overcame, who planted
the feet of prosperity in the desert—we meet,
in a land which you have made delightful, to
welcome you to our little reunion, to extend
our love to you, to ask the Father of all to
continue his blessings upon you.
	We can offer you no great things, but as
your children we meet, and with one accord,
in songs and voices of praise, gratitude, love,
make the proud heavens of our free land ring
from mountain to mountain with your chil-
dren's "God bless you."
	REPORTER.
Ogden, Utah, Aug. 27, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DIALOGUE.

BY L. K. YOUNG.

[Characters: Mary, Minnie, Rose, Ethel, Elsie,
Katie.]

	Mary.—Now, girls, as we have met in ac-
cordance with our appointment, we will pro-
ceed to give an account of  the different
organizations of the sisters, and the object of
their organization, or what items of informa-
tion we have been able to get.
	Minnie.—The Relief Society comes first,
does it not?
	Rose.—Yes; that was the first one organized,
	Ethel.—That was instituted by Joseph
Smith; but ma has forgotten the date of its 
organization.
	Elsie.—It was organized March 17th, 1842.
	Katie.—Has it been continued from that
time until the present?
	Ma.—No; it was inoperative from 1846, the
time of the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo,
until 1855, when it was reorganized it Salt
Lake City.
	Eth.—And now there are many branches
of the Relief Society.
	Min.—Yes; there are many branches, but
they are all working in unison, striving to
assist in the building up of the Kingdom of
God upon the earth.
	Ma.—I have an extract from the history of
Joseph Smith, which defines the duties of the
Relief Society, and gives the names of the first
officers.
	Rose.—I, too, have an extract.
	Eth.—And I.
	El.—Mary, please give us your extract, and
then the rest of us will follow with our infor-
mation.
	Ma.—I can repeat it.  He says:  "March 24,
—I attended, by request, the Female Relief
Society, whose object is the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Its organization was completed this day.  Mrs.
Emma Smith takes the presidential chair;
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Mrs. Sarah
Ann Cleveland are her counselors; Miss El-
vira Cole is treasurer; and our well-known
and talented poetess, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
secretary." 
	Eth.—In speaking of the sisters of our
Church, he says:  "Our ladies have always
been signalized for their acts of benevolence
and kindness; but the cruel usage they have 
received from the barbarians of Missouri has
hitherto prevented their extending the hand of
charity in a conspicuous manner."
	Min.—On another occasion he said:  "I met 
the members of the Female Relief Society, and
after presiding at the admission of many new
members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come in pos-
session of the privileges, blessings, and gifts of 
the Priesthood, and that signs should follow 
them—such as healing the sick, casting out
devils, etc., and that they might attain unto
these blessings by a virtuous life, and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the com-
mandments."
	Ka.—On page 49 "Women of Mormondom"
I found an item which I will repeat:  "Because
of these organizations Utah has no poor-
houses.  Under the kind and sisterly policy of 
this society the worthy poor feel much less
humiliated, and are better supplied, than any
alms-house system extant.  By an admirable
arrangement, under the form of visiting com-
mittees with well defined duties, the deserving
subjects of charity are seldom, if ever, ne-
glected or overlooked."
	Rose.—Where does the Relief Society get
their means to work with?
	El.—They had but little to begin with, but
by working they add to their capital, and the

[Column 2]
Lord is sure to bless everybody who works for
the building up of his kingdom, whether 
individually or collectively.
	Eth.—Some  branches of the Society have
built houses to meet in.
	Rose.—I wonder where the first Relief
Society house was built?
	Ma.—In the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake
City.
	Min.—The laying of the corner-stone of that 
building was performed by women.
	El.—On page 191 "Women of Mormondom"
I found an item which I will repeat:  "This
ceremony—the laying of the corner-stone—
being performed, was followed by appropriate
speech-making on the part of the presiding
officers of the society, Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
Eliza R. Snow, and others, each in turn
mounting the corner-stone for a rostrum, and
each winning deserved applause from the as-
sembled thousands."
	Ka.—You will find in vol. iv., page 287,
"Times and Seasons," the first annual report
of the Relief Society.  They received during
that year in money, clothing, and provisions
507 dollars.  Of that, 306 dollars and 48 cents
was expended for the relief of the poor.
	Ma.—The Relief Society Central Board was
organized June 19th, 1880, with the following
named officers:  Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, President;
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, counselors; Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
secretary; and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, trea-
surer.
	Min.—Since then Sister Whitney died.
	Ma.—Yes; but the vacancy caused by her
death has not yet been officially filled.
	Eth.—Was the Young Ladies' Association
the next one organized?
	Ma.—Yes; that was the second organization
of the women, but there was an organization
in Nauvoo called the Young Gentlemen's and
Ladies Relief Society.  They held their first
meeting one evening in the latter part of
January, 1843.  But their organization was
not completed until the 21st of March the
same year, with William Walker, President;
William Cutler, Vice-President; Lorin Walker,
treasurer; and James Monroe, secretary.
	Rose.—I have never heard of that before.
	Ka.—Mary read the account of their or-
ganization to several of us a few days ago.
	Rose.—What book is it in; I would like to
read it?
	Ma.—The "Times and Season," vol. iv.,
page 154.
	Min.—I was there and heard her read it.
They had such good meetings.  Joseph Smith
and others of the leading men attended their
meetings, and gave them very good instruc-
tions.  But Brother Heber C. Kimball took 
the lead in organizing them.
	Ma.—I will try to repeat an extract, which
may be found on page 155, vol. iv., "Times
and Seasons."  President Smith was present
at one of their meetings, when "he expressed
his gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strongest
terms for having commenced and carried on
in so masterly a manner the good and glorious
work he had undertaken.  He said it would be
the means of doing much good, and of benefit-
ing his young friends more than they were
aware of; that the gratitude of all good men,
and of the young people whom he had so much
benefited, would follow him through life, and
when grey hairs should his temples adorn he
could look back with pleasure upon the winter
of 1843 when he was engaged in promoting
the cause of benevolence, and preparing his
young friends for the glorious career which
awaited them."
	Ka.—I will repeat another extract from the
same article, on page 157:  "If the youth
throughout the land would follow this good
example, and form themselves into such so-
cieties, there would be much less sin, iniquity,


misery and degredation among the young
people than there is at the present day. There
would not be as many suffering poor, neither
would there be as much immorality among
the people; but, on the contrary, peace, good
order, happiness, cheerfulness and plenty
would reign in the land, the Lord would look
down from his holy habitation, and smile upon
us and bless us all."
	El.—The Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association was first organized in May,
1867, in the Lion House, by Eliza R. S.
Smith, under the supervision of President
Young, with the instruction that his daughters
should compose the first organization. It be-
ing entirely a new move, so far as acting in
organized capacity was concerned, she thought
it advisable to appoint more than two coun-
selors, but afterward they were reduced to
two.
	Rose.—Can any of you tell who the first
officers were?
	Eth.—I can, all but the treasurer; I could
not learn who held that position at first. And
they had no treasurer, as they had no use for
one at that time. Mrs. Ella Young Empy
was President; Mrs. Mary E. Young Croxall,
Miss Maria Young, now Mrs. Dougall, Miss
Phebe Young, now Mrs. Beattie. Miss Julia
Young, now Mrs. Burton, Miss Zina Young,
now Mrs. Williams, were counselors.
	Min.—The Central Board presiding over all
the Y. L. M. I. A. in all the world was or-
ganized June 19th, 1880, with Mrs. Elmina S.
Taylor, President; Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor,
Miss Mattie Horne, now Mrs. Tingey, coun-
selors; Miss Louie M. Wells, secretary; and Mrs.
Fanny Young Thatcher, treasurer.
	Rose.—What is the object of this as-
sociation?
	Ma.—The name of the Association signifies
its object—mutual improvement—in behavior,
order, punctuality, refinement; in short, we
should as children of the Latter-day Saints
improve in all things.
	Min.—Yes, we should improve all the time.
Every day we can make a little advancement
towards perfection, and then we will not any
more than be prepared for the trials that we
may be called to pass through.
	Ka.—I think we had better take up the
Primary Association. They are a very essen-
tial organization. There we take our first
lessons in a public capacity, in bearing testi-
mony, giving recitations, etc.
	Rose.—And we are taught many good and
useful lessons, which if we give heed to will
prepare us for future usefulness.
	El.—The first Primary Association was
organized in the autumn of 1878, in Farming-
ton, Davis Co., with Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers
President; and in Salt Lake City, with Mrs.
Louie Felt President. The one in Farmington
was partially organized August 11th, but was
not completed until after the one in Salt Lake
City, which was in the Eleventh Ward.
	Ma.—The Central Board was organized the
same day the others were, with Mrs. Louie
Felt, President; Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt and
Mrs. Clara C. Cannon, counselors; Mrs. Lillie
Freze, secretary; and Miss Minnie Felt, trea-
surer.
	All.—And now the Relief Society has on
hand over 40,000 bushels of grain laid up
against a time of famine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORY.

	Of our dear friend and sister Mary, daughter of John
F. and Elizabeth Snedaker, died June 21st 1885, of
diptheria. She was bom April 17th 1867, in Mill Creek,
where she lived and died, truly a Latter-day Saint, being
18 years, 2 months and 4 days old.
	Her nature was such that made her highly respected by all
who knew her. And we may say, in the best sense of the
word, that Mary was a superior young lady; possessing


that innate refinement, which gives sublimity to womanly
character; added to this were gentleness and genuine
kindness, which won for her a great circle of friends.
Her whole soul seemed to be wrapped up in the study of
music, thus bringing sunshine in all our gatherings. She
was an active member in our Sabbath School, and was
ever striving to improve those talents with which her
Maker had most generously endowed her. And as
such she will ever live as a bright spark in the memories of
all, both old and young.
	It seemed that our dear sister was too good for this earth.
That mighty and noble spirit was too pure to be long en-
cased in that mortal casket. A greater and more glorious
sphere awaited her.
	She was permitted to see angels once or twice before she
died, and also had the privilege of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. She retained consciousness un-
til the last, giving instructions as to her burial etc., besides
giving a great deal of good and beneficial advice.
	Though hard indeed to part with one so good and
kind, yet one great comfort to the parent is to know that
God has blessed them with such a beautiful and noble
daughter; and to know that by faithfulness to the Gospel,
they will meet her again, filled with all the light and in-
telligence possible.
	We extend our sympathies to the bereaved ones; for we,
too, have sorrowed, and know how to appreciate the tears
which flow, when we are called to part with those whose
affections are entwined around our hearts. But, in all
our trials and afflictions we should remember this: "God
knows best."
	"Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore, 
	Thoughts of her virtues, increase more and more,
	'Twill be long e'er the sting of her absence is o'er.
	God grant we may meet on heaven’s bright shore, 
	Where sorrow and parting shall grieve us no more."
		N. S.


"Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending August 25, as follows:
	Mary B. Martin, New York City, Decorat-
ing paper and other materials with oil colors.
	Mary E. Northen,Lanier, Texas, Dress-chart.
	Minnie B. Tate, Johnstown, Ill., Cooking
utensil."


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
				 
	Agent for  RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Obstetric Class.
				
Dr. Romania B. Pratt
WILL COMMENCE HER	
Semi-Annual Class, Sept. 21,
In her large and well-appointed Office, in Godbe, 
Pitts & Co's Drug Store.
					
	Lecture at 4 p. m.
	Charts, Mannikin and all apparatus for teaching.
	As Electricity is a great adjuvant to the Healing
Art, and possessing one of the best Batteries, lessons on
its applications and uses in medicine will be given the
students. 
					
Tuition for Three Months,	$30.00.
Books, (Three)	13.50.
				
	A number of applications are usually received after 
the class has begun; it is earnestly hoped those desiring
to attend will be at the opening. 

For Sale at this Office.
					
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
					
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"	
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	      of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, - 1.50	"

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1865.
				
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
					  
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES,
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street. 

F. Auerback & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods	
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE. 

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
					
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
WILL COMMENCE HER
Class in Midwifery, SEPT. 23, '85.
				
   Every advantage and attention will be given students
to secure their rapid advancement and proficiency in
their studies.
				
Tuition per Term,	$10.00.
Books,	13.00.
					
  Office and Residence, 34 Seventh East Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1885.	No. 9.


"AT REST!"

Through mossy tombstones, old and grey,
That near a ruined abbey lay, 
	Pensive I strayed;
So dim th' inscriptions on the stones,
Unknown the names of those whose bones
	Beneath them laid.
Unnoticed, came the ev'ning sky;
Unminded rose the unconscious sigh
	Up from the breast,
(Dreaming, perhaps, of brighter days,)
When, full beneath my wond'ring gaze
	I saw "At Rest!"
Two words, there, full upon the sod,
As if, with faces turned to God
	In calm repose;
No tombstone near, no fresh-made monnd,
No tear-dimmed eye, no ling'ring sound
	That spoke of woes.
But, like a daisy in the grass,
Unseen of thoughtless as they pass,
	(Half hid in green,)
Mayhap by loving eyes were traced,
By loving hands on tomb were placed
	These words, I ween.
Nor was it dreamed these words, by chance,
Might stay the careless, slow advance
	Of wayward feet;
Nor thought they from that tomb should fall
And, to a thoughtless mind recall
	That life is fleet,
That days are few; that hours speed fast;
That, though we strive from first to last
	With steadfast strain,
Life's worthy battle ne'er is won--
Something that's needful to be done
	Will yet remain.
Some wayward habit to abjure;
Some ling'ring thought, not wholly pure,
	A joyless hate
That from the heart must needs be torn;
From some friend's path to pluck a thorn--
	'Tis ne'er too late.
Thus striving on, life must be spent,
Still something to forgive, repent,
	Ere yet we're blest;
Ere yet the soul speeds unto God;
Ere yet beneath the freshen'd sod
	We're laid "At Rest!"
"At Rest!" At Rest!" O solemn thought!
With deep, with soulful quest'nings fraught,
	Thou fill'st the mind;
And joy too bring'st. What can express
The rapture spirits feel that press
	On, unconfined!
To think the madden'd, fever'd brain
Shall rest--life's never ending strain
	At length must cease,
To feel the bleeding heart no more
Shall bleed, to know the test is o'er!
	Ah! This is peace!
Ere yet the spirit leaves this coil,
But once to gaze back on the toil
	Of weary life,
And, seeing, know (while weak and frail,
While much remains o'er which to wail--
	Unconquer'd strife,)
Thou still hast won th' approving smile
Of Him o'erwatching all the while,
	Then art thou blest!
Bound, Spirit! at thy ransomed birth!
Sleep, Body, in the waiting earth!
	And sigh "At Rest!" --Millenial Star. 
	R. W. Sloan.


[Column 1]

﻿GIRLS, DON'T MISTAKE BRASS FOR
GOLD.

	The bestowal of the affections of a woman
is a strange subject, perhaps, to dilate upon,
but one which, in my estimation, should be
dwelt upon and discussed far more than it has
hitherto been, for by the bestowal may come
joy and happiness, or woe and heartache.
	Who would wish for shadow when they could
have sunshine? Who would wish for hell
when they could gain heaven? Methinks I
can answer for all—not one. Then why should
we not be more wise and discreet in the choice
of a husband, when, by the selection, may
come life-long sorrow, tears, and wishes for an
early grave.
	How often some of us are fascinated by the
bland, wicked smile of one of the opposite
sex, and fall a victim to the snarer. Such is
the case many times with a young, thoughtless
girl, and often those more mature are thus in-
fluenced. How many rush headlong into
wedded life,never pausing to think,or to realize
the importance of the step they are about to
take; some, perhaps,with a very short acquaint-
ance. But alas! they awaken to a realization
of the extent of their folly all too late; they
know nothing of one another’s tastes and
habits, therefore they are not very likely to
agree; one quarrel brings on another, until a
final separation ensues, or they drag out a life
of misery and despair together; this is most in-
variably the case with too hasty courtships and
marriages.
	Oft times one fancies herself in love with a
gentleman whose main forte, in making him-
self agreeable, are his expressive looks, wit and
nonchalant manner. They wed; he, of course,
soon tires of always showing this part of his
character; he then becomes surly and quiet,
and she finds to her sorrow that all that attract-
ed her, or caused her to imagine herself in love,
has flown. She has found out the truth of the
maxim, "All that glitters is not gold," too
late.
	Then we should be careful not to mistake
brass for gold, dross for silver—to be sure that
we have the real, genuine metal; then we are
more confident of happiness.
	Sitting by my open window, this afternoon,
busily employed with writing material, two
pictures are visible to my mind's eye, which I
shall try to describe.

FIRST PICTURE.
	I see a beautiful girl sitting alone in her
boudoir. She is about to write, for she has
two letters before her; two proposals of mar-
riage. She seems in a dilemma which to ac-
cept. Hush! These words escape her lips:
"Which shall it be? Both rich and handsome,
and one so witty and gay, that I am always so
pleased when in his society; the other, while
wealthy, is so quiet and dignified, I am quite
sure I would be miserable with him, or I
should be afraid of him, and I think I love the
other best."
	The beautiful head bends lower over her
writing; she pens the word that silently seals
her fate. In one brief moment she has marred
the happiness of her whole life-time. She has
unconsciously mistaken brass for gold.
	I look a little ahead, perhaps two or three
years; I see that same beautiful being, but
alas! not that same bright, happy face; there is
a hapless look in those dark, mournful eyes, as

[Column 2]

she stands on the open verandah, awaiting her
husband's return home. Ah! he comes; does
she spring forward to meet him as of yore?
Oh, no! If she had, think you those arms
would have opened to receive her in a warm
embrace? To all appearance they would not.
A cool "Good evening," is his greeting. They
pass into the sitting room, where all betokens
luxury. A servant enters and announces tea.
They enter the dining room. While seated
there only now and then an occasional word
passed from either of them. After their even-
ing meal, they pass back to the sitting room;
she to while away her time with some fancy
work, which I see in her listless fingers, he to
don slippers, and to throw himself down on a
low sofa with a novel in his hand, and soon
reads himself to sleep; while his wife—the
work has fallen from her hands, and her eyes
are closed in thought; not in slumber, but in
thought; nor do I think they can be very pleas-
ant reflections, by the painful shadow that now
and then creeps over her face, and by the way
those small white hands are clenched, as they
are interlocked in one another. A tear steals
silently down her cheek. She hastily wipes
all traces of it away, and softly walks to where
her sleeping husband lies. She bends over
him with a woe-begone look her face, and
words escape her lips. I plead guilty of
eaves-dropping, and bend nearer to listen: "So
unlike what he was before we were wed; then
he was always so witty, gay and kind; then I
was happy; but it did not, could not last." A
sob escapes her lips, as she turns and silently
leaves theroom.

SECOND PICTURE.
	Listen, while I disclose to you this beautiful
picture. 
	In the parlor of an aristrocatic mansion, a
slim, graceful figure, elegantly attired, pacing
to and fro as if in thought; finally she com-
munes to herself aloud. "Alas! the time has
come when I must make a decision between
these two gentlemen. One rich, witty, dashing
in manners, and, I believe, warm-hearted; but
the question is, would this last always? If not,
what would there be to attract or draw my at-
tention afterward? I do not think he is often
serious. I must choose wisely, for the happi-
ness of my life is at stake; I must not imagine
I love unless I do."
	"This other gentleman, although not wealthy,
when in his society, he seems towering to
heights far above me, in intellect, and—(and a
delicate blush mantles her cheek)—I think I
could easily learn to love him, and I should be
sure of happiness, as he is so intelligent and
refined."
	There is a determination in those soft blue
eyes, as this part of the vision slowly fades
away.
	Again I see her. She is on a lawn in front
of her residence, racing and romping with
three beautiful children, who are laughing and
crowing in childish glee; but who comes silent-
ly and unperceived on the background? It is
a man of noble, commanding presence. His
arms are folded across his chest, a smile hovers
around that stern mouth, as, unseen, he watches
the happy group, and a fond look steals into
those keen, dark eyes. Finally he advances
toward them; they perceive him and rush for-
ward, and each in turn receives a fond caress.
Surely she has not mistaken brass for gold.
No. I will draw back unpreceived and leave
them to their happiness.


These two scenes have convinced me that in-
telligence and nobility of character will surely
beget true love. Our religion teaches us to
keep ourselves pure, holy and truthful; to re-
gard the marriage vow as something too sacred
to be trifled with. And then again, when we
think of the great privileges we have of marry-
ing for time and eternity, it behooves each
party to think long and well before taking that
all-important step. We should make the
choice of a husband a matter of prayer,
		IDA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	When hearing the rehearsal of trials, priva-
tions and hardships endured by the camp of
Israel, while journeying from the Mississippi
River to the Missouri, my mind inadvertently
turns to that portion between Nauvoo and
Garden Grove, as the darkest in my memory.
We were poorly prepared for such an exodus;
and many joining us who were anxious to come,
but had little or nothing of the necessaries for
their own sustenance, ours had to be divided
among them. We had many weeks of cold,
stormy weather, and our teams being insuffic-
ient to draw the loads, rendered traveling over
those soft praries next thing to an impossibility;
expecting, as we did, to go over the mountains
that year we were put on rations, and had to
lengthen out our flour and provisions in the
most economical manner. During that time
our sea biscuit, crackers, parched corn meal,
etc., which were among the luxuries, molded,
until finally they were fed out to our horses
and cattle. At the beginning of the journey
the crackers went very well to eat dry, but
I'll never forget the first time I saw a meal
made of sea biscuit broken into milk. I had
called at Uncle Brigham's tent—I had always
addressed him by that title—where he was
just taking some for dinner, and he invited me
to have a bowl; but I declined, with thanks,
and a feeling of wonder how he could relish it.
When it came to sitting down daily to milk
and water porridge and crackers in it, it be-
came so nauseous that hunger could not tempt
me to eat it.
	At this period the young, and even aged
people were forced to walk, if it were possible,
a goodly portion of the way to save the teams,
no matter what the weather might be, storms,
or excessive heat, or how weary, faint and foot-
sore we became, there was no alternative but
to endure till we had reached the spot called
Garden Grove. Here they unpacked and
sent out many valuables into the Missouri set-
tlements and exchanged them for provisions
and the most needful articles. They also
traded horses for oxen and milch cows, and
from that time our living was more comfort-
able. Father's and Bishop Whitney's families
were divided up into messes, each tent having
one or two women to cook for the teamsters,
and wagons were provided for all the women
and their little children to ride and to sleep in
at night. Although we were not rid of hard-
ships and vexations, consequent upon the
moving of a great camp, and the intense heat
of the weather, we certainly had little cause
for complaint compared with what we had ex-
perienced previously, and the rest of our jour-
ney was made with comparative ease.
	The whooping cough, which had so sorely
afflicted my mother's babe, Brigham Willard,
previous to starting from Nauvoo, grew lighter
from the time we commenced camping out at
Sugar Creek, and Mother Whitney's babe,
Mary, which had been sick unto death, im-
proved rapidly from that date. There were

[Column 2]

others, and even some of the most feeble and
delicate women, that grew stronger for a time,
until after the hot weather set in. Some of
the strongest, who were more exposed, became
prostrated with fever and ague, etc., before
arriving at Chariton River, where we stopped
a time for the weather to settle. My mother's
little one had commenced to run down with
teething, etc., and her own health, which was
never good, failed to that degree that Mary
Ann Shefflin, one of father's wives, who had
lived with her in Nauvoo, being anxious to re-
lieve her, took the child, and she loved and
cared for him as tenderly as though he had
been her own, till after we arrived at the end
of our journey.
	Lately, in looking over some old papers, I
found a letter of exhortation and counsel to
father's family, written by my husband, at his
dictation, as he was about leaving Cutler's
Park to go with President Young to attend to
some business over the river. It is dated
August 22nd, 1846, my 18th birthday, and
had been preserved among father's papers. The
words being as appropriate to day as then, I
reproduce a portion for the benefit of those
who regarded him in the light of a friend and
wise counselor.
	"I wish to give a few words of counsel to
my family and to all that belong thereto—both
male and female, old and young, and what I
say unto one I say unto all, and shall expect
it to be heeded in the full sense of the word.
	Of late there has been a great deal of care-
lessness, imprudence and slothfulness with
many of the members of my family as regards
to taking care of themselves—going without
suitable clothing and stockings in cold, chilly
weather, sitting out of doors under the bower
after dark, when it is cold, wet weather, expos-
ing themselves to sickness and death, which we
have suffered much of. These things have
caused me much sorrow and regret, and have
caused my family much toil and hardship and
fatigue, which has been brought upon us by a
total neglect of counsel, which would have
saved us these things.	*	*	*	*
I am now about leaving you for a short time,
and I improve this opportunity to address you
in this manner. I love my family, and I have
never faltered for the first time in seeking their
welfare, to provide everything that lay in my
power for their happiness, and still intend to,
inasmuch as my counsel can be respected. Now,
my feelings are this: That all domestic affairs,
as far as women are concerned, are out of the
way 'while it is called day,' for when the night
cometh no man can work, for the Lord says,
in a certain revelation, 'Retire to thy bed
early, that thy body may be invigorated, that
thy days may be many.'
	"Now, I shall require these things at your
hands, except circumstances shall otherwise
direct. Cease from vanity, seek humility and
meekness, bow before the Lord in the morning
and at eve, and in so doing your days may be
many, peace and tranquility shall soothe your
bosoms, health and happiness shall dwell in
thy wagons, tents, wigwams and cottages,
while these things are observed. Cease from
murmuring or complaining, finding fault with
your friends or with each other, but manifest
to all men and women, by your works, and the
closeness of your tongues, and the integrity of
your hearts, that you are right, and that God
is with us of a truth. I always do, and shall
expect that those which constitute my house,
will remember me before the Lord, that I may
have wisdom, health, patience and endurance
to endure all things, that I may always give
suitable counsel to my family, even that that
shall proceed from the Holy Ghost, for I never
wish to counsel by any other spirit.
	I now feel to bless you all in the name of
the Lord God of Israel, with peace, prosperity
and salvation, that we all may be pure in

[Column 3]

heart. These are the words and blessings I
feel to communicate and leave with my dear
family.
	As ever, I remain, your most affectionate
husband, father and friend in the new and ever-
lasting covenant. Amen."
	HEBER C. KIMBALL.


REQUISITE FOR GOOD HOUSE-
KEEPING.

	A great deal is said now-a-days in favor of 
good housekeeping. Much of it is well said.
But one essential to good housekeeping is never
mentioned. It is never said that the "wives of
well-to-do men should not be made paupers."
Yet this is really the word that most needs to
be said.
	The great majority of wives who devote
themselves to their families are as destitute of
money as the poorest pauper. This is not al-
ways so because the husband is niggardly.
More often, perhaps, it is from thoughtlessness.
For instance, one wife, before her first child
was born, was offered no money for its little
wardrobe. She could not ask for any. She
cut up her own fine garments to make a supply.
She did the same for the second. Before the
birth of the third child, she said to her hus-
band, "I have no money. I have cut up all
my clothes that were suitable, for the other
children. How am I to dress this one?" The
surprised husband said: "Why did you not
tell me you needed money?" It had never
occurred to him to offer any. He was a farmer,
whose wife, without help, cooked for the family
and for the hired men. She made butter and
cheese, and did the family sewing. All her
time was consumed in her housework and the
care of her children. Before her marriage
she had a remunerative business. She had the
means of gratifying her tastes, her wishes and
her feelings. How it must have taken out of
her, courage and heart, to find toil, day after
day, neither lightened nor brightened by the
hope of even small means with which to do
as she pleased! This man and woman repre-
sent a large class.
	But, whatever the class, the custom prevails
of leaving the wife without money, and this is
as common among the rich and well-to-do as
anywhere.
	Now, it is easy to see that a pauperized wife
is not in the best position for good home-mak-
ing or good housekeeping, to say nothing of
anything else. The first and last word of
those who really desire to improve the home
should be one to improve the condition of the
home-maker, in the special direction of reliev-
ing her from a penniless state. Much has
been said and written in favor of good house-
keeping. Now let us hear something of the
way to help wives to such a share of the family
income, be it little or much, as shall save them
from the sense of being either beggars or pau-
pers. This is one essential requisite to secure
good housekeeping.	L. S.


"Lady Tennyson is in a state of ill health
that causes her friends great anxiety."
	Mrs. Helen Jackson left several unpublished
manuscripts. Her last work was a story of
humble life in the West, entitled "Zeph." It
was finished during her fatal illness, and is
now, with other manuscripts, in the hands of
her publishers, Messrs. Roberts Brothers. A
new edition of the "Century of Dishonor,"
carefully revised, and with additional matter
is soon to be published by Roberts Brothers.
Mrs. Jackson's latest poem, "A Rose Leaf,"
will be published, with illustrations, in Outing
for October. Of this poem, Mrs. Jackson
wrote to the editor that she actually dreamed
it, and awoke with it on her lips.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESPONSE.

[TO ONE WHO WROTE IN THE EXPONENT "FAREWELL
TO LOVE.]

Love on!
	Love on! let none freeze up the heart,
	For love will ever youth and life impart;
	A precious gift, our Father gave to man,
	To aid him, God's eternal truth to scan.

Love on!
	Love on! when in the prime of youth
	Our spirit clings to beauty and to truth;
	Nor dream a foe may lurk in smiling guise,
	And drive the beauteous phantom from our eyes.

Love on!
	Love on! in life's maturer age,
	When time, with iron pen fills up the page,
	O'er which we sigh and often drop the tear,
	As scenes are shifting by us year by year.

Love on!
	Love on! in life's declining age
	The youthful and mature become the sage;
	Three score and ten may number out our day,
	But still love on until we pass away.

		Love on! Love on!
			HANNAH T. KING.

Salt Lake City, Sep. 26th, 1885.


ALL WILL BE WELL.

BY ELLA WHEELER WHEELER WILCOX,

All will be well. I heard this blest assurance
	Flung o'er the borders of the unseen spheres,
It gave me faith and courage and endurance
	To walk serenely on and meet the years.
Like the sweet voice of some consoling spirit,
	Down through the silence of the night it fell.
My soul's fine ear was rightly tuned to hear it:
		"All will be well,"

All will be weli. Why should we ever doubt it?
	There were no blunders in creation's plan.
When God's vast mind conceived, and went about it,
	He was not aided or controlled by man.
The stars that move in such immortal beauty
	Through their appointed pathways seem to tell 
Our questioning souls, if we but do our duty,
		"All will be well,"

All will be well. Let not our hearts be troubled
	By passing clouds or shadows that may fall,
We must press bravely on with faith redoubled;
	The glorious end will justify it all.
I will believe that voice from heaven's portal
	Clear as the utterance of a silver bell—
It spoke to me a truth that is immortal:
		"All will be well,"—Advance.


[Column 1]

"MORMON" CREED.

"MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS."

	Yes, Mr. Hendricks spoke as follows: "Fel-
low citizens!" We, the Latter-day Saints,
away out in Utah, are fellow citizens, and
claim every right pertaining thereto. Our
rights are assailed and we are meddled with by
United States officials, who are sent here to
mind our affairs, when we know how to govern
them ourselves much better, and have not cost
Government half so much as uninterested
officials, sent here to feather their own nests
and deprive the people of every vestige of
right guaranteed to American citizens. We
recognize the right and power of the general
government, but when it affects you and me
and the people of Utah, then it is that Utah
makes her own laws and votes in her own
officers by the voice of her own subjects, born
on her own soil, or are permanent residents;
those who are honorable, self-sustaining men,
who have built up Utah, by cultivating the
soil, who have taken an interest for the people,
made good and wholesome laws for the estab-

[Column 2]

lishment of virtue, peace and good, moral con-
duct, and order and thrift of her people.
	We claim the right to make our own laws,
simply because we can regulate our own affairs
better than any one else can regulate them for
us; and so we, on our own soil, for that simple
reason, must be legislatures for Utah. "That
was the great argument first asserted in this
country. One hundred years has established
the fact that self-government, with respect to
local affiars, is the true system of government
in this world."
	No trouble can arise but what our own legis-
lators can regulate, in all matters of home
affairs. So, we must have local self-govern-
ment. What citizen, among any other people,
of a free mind, would like to be dragged from
a home fireside into a distant state and be im-
mured in a prison for months, to await what?
An inquisition. In our boasted land of liberty
—"America—not Ireland,not England,no; but
the home of the brave and the land of the
free." You may hunt the wide world over, and
I defy any one to find better men and women
than have been taken from their homes and
friends, deprived of their usefulness in the
public good, and their wives and children de-
prived of their support, to gratify lawless in-
truders, forced on a happy and thriving com-
munity to fill the idler's coffers out of the
hard earned real estates of its own native born
citizens. Is not America indebted to the
Latter-day Saints for Utah's resources? Was
it not settled up by them under the most try-
ing circumstances? We need not go to Irish
history to find a persecuted people. No, not
beyond our own country's limits. Here has
been enacted the most unjust and stringent
measures against an innocent and unoffending
people. In plain contradiction to our coun-
try's laws and Constitution, which gives liberty
of religious belief and conscience, can an ac-
tive mind be eternally ladened with supersti-
tious fogyism? Why is it that America's
rulers are so far seeing as to sympathize with
Ireland and sending men away out to Utah
with a legislator's lash to thrash her own sub-
jects? "Well," say they, "Utah is a Territory,
and they have no rights in common with us."
Indiana is a state. Yes, and cannot Utah be-
come one? Are not her numbers sufficient? Are
fifteen thousand people not to be trusted with
the reins of government? Who, in Indiana,
would trust to any other state in legislation for
her schools, in the building up of her indus-
tries? So according to the majority in Utah.
When persecution ceases with us to exist, not
only the agricultural classes, but the the me-
chanics, the people of the cities and towns
must live, and Utah becomes clothed with the
right and power of self-government, these
matters will be cared for. That is a doctrine
so plainly expressed and so powerful in its ap-
plication to human interests, that it will never
stop; it will go on.
	For many years it has not been a contro-
verted question that the Latter-day Saints
have been dealt hardly by. It is widely known
that they have not had fair play. How is it
that American citizens were driven by a law-
less mob into these wild, unknown regions,
uninhabited by the white race? Thought unfer-
tile and barren—made by this people to blos-
som as the rose, redeemed by them from its
sterile condition by hard industry in the midst
of poverty, being deprived of their mother
land, the homes of their birth, and thrust out
beyond their land of freedom into a desert
waste. Have the Irish people been served
thus? No; they could stay at home, but we
could not. Missiles of war were used—pointed
at men, women and children, and they were
driven over the Mississippi River in the month
of February, to freeze and starve.
	And now our good, kind followers say,
'Give yourselves up; oh, do! that we may

[Column 3]

have no further trouble on your account, and
our deputy marshals can be paid and so can
we, and live on your exit." No, never! we are
not all fools.
	"Let us come back to the great question
which lies at the foundation of government,
the question of the rights of the people to
make their own laws, and that no other power
has a right to make laws for them. You re-
member, in the Declaration of Independence,
we asserted the right of men to govern them-
selves. That is the great fundamental idea of
America, and is now the one being applied, to
which we give our sympathy and support,
The right of man to govern himself and to
abolish laws that are inimical to his welfare is
the principle that was asserted at Bunker Hill,
and in glorious triumph it was proclaimed at
Yorktown." (Great applause.)
		MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sep. 17th, 1885.


IT DON'T PAY.

	It don't pay to have one citizen in the coun-
ty jail because another citizen sells him
liquor.
	It don't pay to have one citizen in the luna-
tic asylum because another citizen sold him
liquor.
	It don't pay to have fifty workmen ragged,
to have one saloon keeper dressed in broad-
cloth and flush with money.
	It don't pay to have ten smart, active, intelli-
gent boys transformed into thieves to enable
one man to lead an easy life by selling them
liquor.
	It don't pay to give one man, for $15 a
quarter, license to sell liquor, and then spend
$5,000 on a trial on another man for buying
that liquor and committing murder under its
influences.—Christian Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Marietta M. Bones is deputy clerk of
the district court of Webster, Dakota."
	"Kate Greenaway will offer the holiday sea-
son a new book, called 'The Marigold Gar-
den.'"
	"Miss Cleveland is a successful author. Her
book has already run through ten editions, and
has been translated into several languages."
	"Lady Dufferin has formed in India a Na-
tional Association for supplying 'female medi-
cal aid,' i.e., women doctors to attend the
wives of the natives in sickness."
	"Mlle. Sinay has been awarded by the jury
of the Paris Conservatoire a first prize for
violin-playing; Mlles. Gauthier, Dautin, and
Boutin a premier accessit, and Mlle. Magnier a
second accessit."
	"Mrs. Kingsley Harrison, a daughter of
Charles Kingsley, is the author of the novels
'Mrs. Lorimer' and 'Colonel Enderby's Wife,'
under the pen-name Lucas Malet. For a long
time her first book was supposed to be the
work of a man."
	Without a doubt, the mother's superior or
inferior intelligence is the most deeply im-
printed upon the child.—Horatio Yates, M. D.,
Professor Queen's University.
	"Colonel Higginson's 'History of the United
States,' most of which has appeared in Harp-
er's Magazine, is soon to be printed in book
form."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 1, 1885.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	It seems absolutely certain that important mat-
ters relating to this people are culminating to such
a degree as to indicate, at a very early period, a
solution of the knotty problem which is puzzling
the American people, and raising such a furore
among ministers and sectarians more especially.
Such a persecution as is furnished by the present
prosecution cannot last long in a country where
there is a semblance of freedom. There is, and
must be, somewhere, an element of religious
liberty diametrically opposed to the terrible op-
pression brought to bear upon the Latter-day
Saints at the present time. It must exist, even if
it be in the inner depths of the souls of the "Mor-
mon" people,and cause them to exclaim, "Give me
liberty, or give me death!"
	We are certainly, as a people, nearing a telling
crisis in the history of the Church, and whether
all will be able to stand it is a vital question. Ac-
cording, to the prophecies of our leading men in
these last days, Heber C. Kimball and others,
each person will be brought to a test, severe and
individual, that will prove the integrity of his
soul and the purpose of his heart.
	None of us know our own capacity for endur-
ance until we have been tested in the crucible that
refines and purifies even the most sincere and
zealous, and then they must be weighed in the
balance that determines the true valuation of a
Saint of God. How many can stand firm through
this severe ordeal remains to be proven, but one
who wishes to obtain the coveted blessing must
indeed be "meek and lowly," that he may retain
the Holy spirit that will lead him into all truth.
"It must needs be that offences come," said our
Savior, "but woe be to him by whom they come."
Evidently the judges and jurors and the district
attorneys do not comprehend the full meaning of
these words. If they realized and sensed the
position in which this crusade puts them, they
could not consent to the great responsibities being
placed upon them, and that they are daily assum-
ing most willingly. They evidently imagine, as
did the persecutors of old, that they are doing God
service, and thus acquit their own consciences
and proclaim themselves, before all the world
as civilizers and regenerators. Meantime, what are
the facts, and what is the exact status of those
who are driving some of the Latter-day Saints to
the extreme measures they are compelled to take
in o rder to answer the end of the Edmunds law,
which the Congress of the United States has
made valid and the Supreme Court of Washing-
ton has declared constitutional?
	There are many who do not accept, as correct,
this construction of the law of our common coun-
try, but are obliged to submit to the penalty in-
flicted and the precedent established by the
courts, or become exiles from home, country and
friends.
	The recent trials, under the Edmunds law, be-
fore the courts here, have given certain men a
good opportunity to show their manhood and to

[Column 2]

prove their integrity to the sacred and holy princi-
ples they had espoused, and upon the foundation
of which the most solemn, eternal covenants had
been entered into. Day after day these trials for
unlawful cohabitation are published in full, and
one may have the opportunity of reading and di-
gesting the matter. Still it is difficult to pass
judgment, except one is in possession of the Holy
Spirit that leads into all truth. It is a time for
each one to examine himself and seek to bring in-
to subjection to the will of God his own selfish-
ness, and to so deport himself that respect will be
paid to his example as well as precepts, and those
who are weak may thus be strengthened in the
path of duty and of honor. Every one who stands
true to his convictions, whatever worldly sacrifice
he may be called upon to make, not only does
 honor to the cause, but helps others who may,per-
chance, need some strong pilot to show them how
to save their less steady bark from being wrecked
or broken to pieces on the sharp rocks that often
abound in shallow waters, that deceive those not
accustomed to the dangers and storms and raging
waves of commotion that toss one hither and
thither among the breakers. At such times it is
always a hopeful sign to see one or more keep
right side up and withstand the fury of the gale;
it gives courage to those whose faith might other-
wise have failed. When one sees a companion in
deep water, struggling against the current that
would fain bear him down, rise with an almost
superhuman effort, he feels, he too, could have
power to do the same, whereas he might not have
had the heroism had he not been shown so illus-
trious an example.
	We all, as fellow beings, depend largely upon
each other, but there are few people who are will-
ing, from choice, to risk the first chances of an
extreme measure, that they may be a light and a
strength to those who follow; but these always
do good, if they have the true, genuine mettle in
them, forming brilliant examples, and opening the
way for those who come after them, proving them-
selves fearless to stand and suffer in defense of
truth and right, however unpopular the cause.
	The pioneers in any great cause or discovery of
truth have almost without exception been perse-
cuted, or regarded as lunatics, while, after genera-
tions having realized the benefits of their labors
or discoveries, have held them in the highest es-
teem and reverence, as martyrs to truth and princi-
ple, and benefactors of the human family. Men
have suffered much in the interest of science, as
well as religion, and it would seem rather a scath-
ing aspersion upon the Latter-day Saints if they
are not valiant enough to endure as much for the
Gospel's sake as the Saints of former days and
periods of time. But in order to endure persecu-
tion one's religion must be deeply rooted in the
heart and soul; it must be the guiding star of one's
life, something before which all other considera-
tions vanish away, and for which one would sacri-
fice all else on earth. The Savior said, "He that
loveth father or mother more than me, is not
worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter
more than me, is not worthy of me." And again
He says, "And every one that hath forsaken
houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother,
or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake,
shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit
everlasting life."
	To all who read the Scriptures, and who believe
in the divine inspiration of the words therein con-
tained, there is an abundance of proof that these
are the days referred to by our Savior previous to
His second coming. In the 21st chapter of Luke,
Jesus, in speaking of the time drawing near, after
speaking of wars and contentions and earthquakes
and famines and pestilences and sights and signs,
etc., etc., says, beginning at the 12th verse, "But
before all these they shall lay their hands on you
and persecute you, delivering you up to the syna-
gogues and into prisons, being brought before

[Column 3]

kings and rulers for my name's sake. And it shall
turn to you for a testimony. Settle it, therefore,
in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye
shall answer, for I will give you a mouth and
wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not gain-
say nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by
parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends,
and some of you shall they cause to be put to
death."
	A part of this Scripture is most assuredly being
verified at the present time, in the courts of the
Territory, and no doubt all will be fulfilled accord-
ing as it has been declared by ancient and modern
prophets.
	The scenes that are now transpiring are fraught
with the greatest significance to the Latter-day
Saints, and yet there are many who do not seem
to realize the momentous results that must neces-
sarily follow such remarkable events. It is most
certainly a time for serious thought and reflection
and humility before the Lord, and no one can
trust to his own strength, but in all humility look
to the Lord for divine aid and assistance; it be-
hooves every Latter-day Saint by a virtuous life
and conversation to seek to attain unto the bless-
ings promised to the faithful, fulfilling every duty
and obligation, in so far as it is made known by
the spirit of the Gospel that leads into all truth.
It is a time for that entire consecration and devo-
tion to the kingdom of God that will admit of no
neglect, but will require one’s time, talents and
labors exclusive of all other interests. The
Scripture commands us, "Seek ye first the king-
dom of God and His righteousness and all other
things shall be added unto you." But how few
have obeyed this in the spirit in which it was
given. This is verily a time of trial, a time to
prove and test the integrity of men's hearts, and
though the Saints may be called upon to pass
through the deep waters of affliction, there is a
power equal to the emergency, and the promises of
God to those who serve Him and abide in the
faith are sure and steadfast, and the covenant He
has made with His chosen people cannot be
broken. He has commanded His people to obey
the law of celestial marriage,and He will maintain
His word though all the forces of earth and all
the powers of darkness combine against the es-
tablishment of that eternal principle of marriage.
There is much more involved in it than the casual
observer can comprehend, and the purposes of
God cannot be overthrown simply because a body
of men have decided, in grand council assembled,
that the law of the Lord is null and void, and the
law of the land supreme. Far from it! And
hough it may cost the lives of some of the Saints
of God, what He has decreed He will perform,
and His cause will triumph, and those who have
been obedient and kept the commandments He
has given, and have not departed from the law
laid down for the guidance of His people, will re-
joice and be made partakers of the glory and do-
minion promised to the faithful. That this may
be the happy lot of many now passing through the
most severe ordeals, is our earnest prayer.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In this issue of the paper there is an excellent
article on the silk industry,and we trust our sisters
will read and digest it thoroughly. It is a subject
that has engrossed much attention in times past,
and almost untiring efforts have been made by in-
dividuals here and there, and also by societies, to
accomplish some permanent good in this direction.
We have been told by Brigham Young and others
that there is every facility here for making a good
quality of silk. There have been many discourage-
ments and disappointments in the growth and pro-
gress of this enterprise, and yet some good silk
has been made under the most severe difficulties.
There seems now to be an opening by which those
who have cocoons on hand can dispose of them


[Column 1]

﻿to some advantage, and if this is the case, the
people will soon be encouraged in raising cocoons
for the home market. The white silk handker-
chiefs manufactured by Bro. Chalmers, at the Silk
Factory, are very handsome. In each corner 
the pattern of the Salt Lake Temple is woven,
which makes the article still more attractive.
	ON Monday evening, September 28th, a dis-
tinguished party of visitors arrived in this city, on
a short visit, and were the guests of Mrs. Luella
Young. The party consisted of the Hon. James
W. Barclay, M.P., and his accomplished wife,
and Mr. Frank D. Finley, who has for years been 
associated with the London press. Mr. Barclay
is the author of the able article on the "Mormon"
question published in the nineteenth century,
and afterwards put in pamphlet form and widely
circulated among this people, and in other parts
of the world. We had an opportunity of meeting
with the party and conversing with them, and the
pleasure of a trip to the Lake, with quite a party
of ladies and gentlemen, who lunched on board
the General Garfield. On Tuesday evening a few
ladies and gentlemen spent the evening at Mrs.
Young's. The time was occupied in interesting
conversation on the topics of the day, and Mrs.
Barclay, who is a very talented singer and musi-
cian gave us some exquisite Italian music. Miss
Louie Wells and Mr. B. S. Young and Mr. C.
W. Stayner added to the mnsical part of the en-
tertainment of the evening. Some delicious re-
freshments were elegantly served,and the evening
passed off most agreeably.
	THE Primary fair, of the several associations of
Salt Lake County, was held in the Social Hall in
this city the 17th, 18th and 19th of September,
under the supervision of Prest. Ellen C. Clawson
and her Counselors, Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann
Wells. There was a good showing of the child-
dren's work, and the products of their labors in
the way of vegetables, fruits, butter, and other
articles of this kind, all of good quality. There
seemed to be a great improvement in the quality
of work since the first Fair, and a greater variety
of useful articles. The receipts from the Fair
counted up to nearly a hundred dollars, though
the price of admission was a mere trifle. After
all expenses were paid there was remaining over
$87.50, and the little people were consulted as to
what should be done with the money. All seemed
to think they would like to make a donation to the
Temple, and, accordingly, $50 was reserved for
the Manti Temple, and $37.50 for the Deseret
Hospital. Prest. Clawson and her Counselors
must feel exceedingly gratified with the success of
the enterprise, as well as all those little people
whose labor and means contributed to the success-
ful affair.
	ON Friday, September 15th, we had the pleasure
of accompanying Apostle F. D. Richards and his
wife to North Ogden to attend a meeting of the
Young Ladies' Association at that place. Dr. R.
B. Pratt was also one of the party from this city,
and in Ogden we were joined by Mrs. Hattie
Brown, Counselor to Mrs. Jane S. Richards in the
Relief Society of Weber Stake, and Mrs. Mattie
Cannon and Mrs. Lettie Richards, which made up
a very pleasant party. Arriving at the new meet-
ing house, we were warmly welcomed by the
Bishop and others. The house was well filled,
quite a large number of the congregation being
young girls. Mrs. Ellen Waldrun presided with
ease and dignity over the meeting. After the
usual exercises and reading of minutes, remarks
were made by the President, and the Secretary
read an address which had been prepared for the
occasion in honor of Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who
had, until recently, presided over the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Weber Stake. The address was well
written and contained many expressions of love,
respect and confidence, and was very complimen-
tary indeed of the labors of their former presi-

[Column 2]

dent. After reading the article an elegant photo-
graph album was shown, which was a gift from
the Association to Mrs. E. S. Richards. It con-
tained the pictures of the Bishop and his wife, the
officers of the Association, and some of the mem-
bers. The next part of the programme was a
presentation to the young President, Mrs. Wal-
drun, of an enlarged, handsomely framed photo-
graph of her husband, who is now an a mission to
Germany, accompanied with a very neat
written speech, which was well read by the Secre-
tary, and both these marks of appreciation seemed
to meet with the utmost favor from all the assem-
bly. Apostle Richards made congratulatory
rmarks to the young people,and dwelt specially up-
on the importance of true marriage,and the sacred-
ness of the covenants entered into in such marriage,
and the obligatons it places upon men and women.
He also expressed his appreciation of the honor
conferred upon his daughter-in-law, Mrs. E. S.
Richards, in the beautiful gift bestowed, and the
accompanying written tribute. Mrs. Jane S.
Richards also expressed her good feelings and
kindly sentiments toward the young people, and
made many excellent suggestions to the sisters as-
sembled. Brief addresses were delivered by the
sisters from the city upon education, refinement,
literary progress, etc., and Dr. Pratt gave some
valuable information on the subject of health, and
how to preserve it. Sisters Hattie Brown and
Mattie Cannon each expressed their feelings, and
exhorted the young to persevere. The Bishop
spoke a short time, expressing his interest in the
young people, etc., and Mrs. Waldrun made some
closing remarks, and alluded to the surprise the
young ladies had arranged in giving her the pic-
ture; was very much gratified, and hoped always
to retain their affection. After the meeting was
dismissed, the invited guests, officers of the Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. and some of the
members,about fifty,in all,repaired to the Bishop's
and partook of a sumptuous dinner, which had
been prepared for the occasion. In the evening
the young people of the ward were to have a
party in the school house. Altogether the day
was a most enjoyable one, and we returned home
well pleased with the visit to North Ogden. The
young ladies seemed to be making good progress
in the right direction, and to enjoy a goodly por-
tion of the Spirit of the Lord.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿OUR SILK INDUSTRY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In April of the present year we began reeling
silk from cocoons for the purpose of manufactur-
ing handkerchiefs and dress goods. Since then,
we have used about two hundred pounds of co-
coons, and have obtained nearly an average of
one pound of silk for every five pounds of cocoons.
only one lot, of twenty pounds, produced what is
considered a proper production, yielding six
pounds of silk from the twenty pounds of cocoons.
Some lots have yielded one pound from four
pounds, others have taken five pounds and some
six pounds to one pound of silk. This has been
in consequence of all the cocoons being old, and
partially destroyed by vermin.
	Understanding that nearly all the coooons in the
Territory were in this condition, we undertook the
task of reeling them, putting the price to be paid
for them at such a figure as would enable us to
meet the expense of working them up, and getting
them out of the way with as much profit to the
raisers as possible. We did not think, in the be-
ginning, that all would be satisfied with the results,
and we are not ourselves, for we have not been
able to obtain wages from the transaction, but in
doing so we have practically solved the problem
of taking the native material and putting it through
the various processes of reeling, spinning, scour-
ing and manufacturing into goods fit for the mar-

[Column 2]

ket, that we could do so on such a limited scale
profitably. We could not suppose but the opera-
tions have proven that, if the native material can
be supplied in sufficient quantities to keep in
operation all our looms, a very different and much
better condition of things could be shown. 	
	The price paid for the cocoons has not been
encouraging to the raisers, being three dollars for
every pound of silk realized from reeling. This
price was set on account of the condition of the
material to be operated on; and although we must
still hold to the principle of valuing the cocoons
according to their production, $3.50 may be safely
offered for the pound of reeled silk, realized from
newly raised cocoons; and a still further advance
may be reached for cocoons raised with special
care, and by experienced raisers. But this fact
must be proven by the reeling. In order that the
best results may be obtained, cocoons must be
reeled as early as possible after being harvested—
stifled and sufficiently dried to bear transporta
tion.
	A few ideas on the value of silk may not be out
of place here, and may serve to correct erroneous
impressions that some may have concerning it.
Raw Silk, which is silk in its first condition, when
taken from the cocoons is bought and sold sixteen
ounces to the pound. Hard silk, which is its se-
cond condition, having been spun and made into
thread, is still sixteen ounces to the pound. Soft
silk, which is its next condition in the course of
manufacture, is counted at twelve ounces to the
pound; the reason of this reduction is that, in the
progress of scouring, it has discharged twenty-five
per cent of foreign matter in gum, etc. Its value
increases rapidly as it passes through its various
processes of manufacture, until, when it has
reached the counter of the retailer, in many cases
it will be six or eight times its original value. An
approximate idea may here be got at of the amount
of cash capital which must go out of the communi-
ty to bring from the eastern market the quantity
of silk dress goods, handkerchiefs, ribbons, etc.,
which are consumed in our midst; and for every
pound of silk which we receive from the east,
not less than from $15 to $20 must go to bring it;
there is only the profits of the merchant remain
here. But, say some, "We can get them so much
cheaper from the east, and better finished than
they can be done here." This may be true so far
as we have gone; in some points only the reasons
are obvious. Our machinery is very limited in its
capacity; our help has been inexperienced; our
resources are all limited, and our expenses are as
high, in many cases, as though our production was
four times what it is. These things can easily be
removed, and as we have a climate and country
equal to any for silk culture. If we are only true
to our own interests, and determine to be self-sus-
taining, as we profess and ought to be, in two
years from now our merchants may become ex-
porters instead of importers of silk merchan-
dise.
	The above has been written at the request of
several friends of the Industry, and we cordially
invite all who are interested to come to the silk
factory and see our operations for themselves.
		JAMES L. CHALMERS.


THE WORD OF WISDOM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The word of wisdom, which has been given by
the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith to
His Saints in this dispensation, is full of correct
information upon those things which are condu-
cive to health and of promised blessings to those
who observe and keep it according to the spirit
and meaning thereof. Among other things in it
He has said, "And again, strong drinks are not
for the belly, but for the washing of your 
bodies."
	The Lord considered this all that was necessary


to say upon this subject. It would be sufficient if
the Saints would remember to take His word as it
is given, and act upon it. I find but few who ob-
serve this portion of the word of wisdom, although
many may strictly keep other parts of it, and ex-
pect to receive the promised blessings comtained
therein. They, no doubt, frequently wash their
bodies all over with water, but the Lord does not
say that it is good to do so, but He has said in
another revelation, "Behold, the Lord in the be-
ginning, blessed the waters, but in the last days,
by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the
waters."
	It is a scientific fact, which is fully sustained by
experience, that there are properties in alcoholic
liquors which are invigorating to the skin, and
which will open the pores and leave them in a
healthy condition, enabling them to more readily
perform the functions of their offices, thereby im-
parting health and strength to the whole sys-
tem.
	My main object in writing upon this subject is
to call the attention of mothers and nurses to it,
who may have charge of infants from their birth
to childhood, and who generally wash them all
over once or twice a day, which greatly reduces
their vitality, and nearly washes the very life out
of them, at which time they are more injured than
in after years, urge upon them the importance
of giving heed to what the Lord has said, and use
"strong drinks" for the washing of their children.
For instance, about one part of good alcohol to
two parts of water, or any other liquors in proper
proportions, and wash them in it as often as it
may be necessary. Such children, in after years,
would feel to bless them for the health and strength
they would enjoy.
	A New England man, who lived to be quite old,
and who still retained the health and vigor of
manhood, when asked what he attributed his
longevity to, answered by saying, "I have fed the
outside of the body with brandy and the inside
with olive oil.',
	I will only say further, to one and all, especially
to mothers, "Take the word of the Lord as He
has given it, and act upon it without stopping to
consult any one about whether it is good or not,
and use that which He says is good, and the bless-
ings of God will be with you and your generations
after you."		S. F. A.
	Kamas, Summit Co., September 24, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

LOA, PIUTE CO.

	Anniversary of the Relief Society of the
Fremont Ward, of the Sevier Stake of Zion,
held June the 19th, 1885. Commenced at
10 a.m. Singing by the choir. Prayer by
John Ellet. Reports of last year read by the
secretary. Remarks by Bishop C. H. Black-
burn; An Address by Prest. Darton; Speech
by J. W. Young: "I think it is forty-two
years since I first saw Joseph Smith; he was
then talking to the Relief Society; it has been
kept up ever since, and the sisters should teach
the young the right way, and not to follow the
fashions of Babylon. There are not many so-
cieties that can meet to-day, as we do, in peace,
and none of their husbands or fathers in prison.
The sisters should be very thankful for this
privilege." a Song, by Minnie Morrell and
company; a Speech, by Mary Ellet, Remarks,
by V. L. Blackburn; Song, by C. M. Young
and daughter; Speech, by Sarah J. Morrell;
Speech, by Father Allen Taylor.
	The officers of the Society were then put
before the meeting and sustained. Singing by
the choir. Dismissed by John Ellet. We
had dinner at two o'clock, and had an enjoy-
able time together in the afternoon, and a
party at night. All having enjoyed them-
selves, we retired at twelve o'clock, well satis-

[Column 2]

fied. Alice Darton, President; Mary Ellet
and V. L. Blackburn, Counselors; Sarah J.
Blackburn, Secretary; Hannah Blackburn,
Assistant Secretary.
	Re-organization of the Loa, Fremont Relief
Society, September 3rd, 1885: Sister Margaret
Taylor, President; Nancy Blackburn and
Sarah J. Forseith, Counselors; Sarah J. Black-
burn, Secretary; Hannah Blackburn, Assistant
Secretary; Alice Darton, Treasurer.
		S. J. BLACKBURN, Secretary.

KOOSHAREM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society is in good running order; the
sisters are all willing and on hand to fill any
call, no matter what it may be, and a good
feeling prevails.
	We held our annual meeting September the
16th, 1885, in the cedar grove, Prest. Margaret
Anderson presiding. Singing, "O my Father."
Prayer offered by Prest A. K. Thurber, Sing-
ing, "Did you think to pray?" Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved; and also
the statistical and financial report. We had
the pleasure of having our Stake President,
Sister Elizabeth Bean, and her First Counselor,
Thirza Thurber, and also our Stake Secretary,
Sister Hunt, and our leading local brethren,
from whom we received much good instruction
in regard to our duties and privileges. The
bowery was well decorated with handiwork and
articles of home industry from the sisters.
	The afternoon was spent in singing, dancing,
etc. The day passed off pleasantly, and all
returned home feeling we had spent an enjoy-
able and instructive day.
	We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and
our working meetings once a month. The good
attendance shows the desire of the sisters to be
in doing what we can to help along the king-
dom of God; storing grain, by raising it, and
in other ways. Our Society owns a number of
sheep, the wool being worked up in cloth and
other articles.
	We are blessed with pretty good health, in
general. Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
leave us in peace, thus far, but we deeply sym-
pathize with our persecuted brethren and sis-
ters, and our prayers are ascending up to
heaven daily in their behalf. We feel that a
day will come when all will get their just re-
ward, and we desire to be firm in the faith to
the end, for we know that the Lord is on our
side, as long as we will keep His command-
ments. We remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARGARET ANDERSON, Prest.,
		ANNIE M. WRIGHT, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of this Stake was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
September 18th, 1885, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding. After the usual exercises, the roll
of presidents was called, and nineteen presi-
dents and two counselors responded. Minutes
of previous conference were read and accepted,
and twenty-nine written reports were read by
the secretary, and the Stake treasurer's re-
port.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters B. W.
Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W. Wilcox and Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and S. M. Kimball. The
counsel and instructions were general in
character, though calculated to define the di-
rect duties of those engaged in the work of the
Relief Society, and how they might magnify
the calling in which they were officiating. The
storing of grain, the library for the Temple,
and many other charitable objects were referred
to, and the sisters were advised to take active
steps to assist in these matters, and were
specially enjoined upon to take care of the
sick, and in no wise, or upon any account not

[Column 3]

to neglect the poor, and to do all in their
power to elevate those with whom they are as-
sociated, to help lift up and comfort, and to
seek for greater Union.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
'Wake, O wake, the world from sleeping," etc.
Benediction by Mrs. E. Howard.
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
etc., Sister Catherine Smith, of Draper, re-
ferred to the re-organization of the Relief So-
ciety at Draper, which had been rendered
necessary by the decease of the former Presi-
dent, Mrs. Harriet R. Burnham.
	Mrs. W. Olsen, Prest. of the Sandy R. S.,
represented the society over which she presided.
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant referred to her visit to
Soda Springs, and how faithful the sisters
were in the Society there, though they were
but few in number. Spoke eloquently upon
the principle of plural marriage, and alluded
to the present trials of this people. Thought
the darkest hour had not come yet, etc.
	Mrs. R. C. Atwood made a few edifying
remarks; also Mrs. Diana Reid, Prest. of the
R. S. of the 16th Ward, and Mrs. E. B.
Fletcher, Prest. of the 8th Ward R. S. Each
of these sisters bore a strong testimony to the
truth, and exhorted all to diligence and faith-
fulness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occupied a short time.
Referred to her visit in the court room that
morning; felt we ought not to be cast down; we
should be full of hope, for we know the Lord
is on our side, and that the revelation given
upon plural marriage is from God, and we
must be true to that principle. Said, "This is
an age of progression and enlightenment, and
we must seek for wisdom and knowledge."
	Mrs. E. Howard made some excellent re-
marks upon the present condition of society,
and also upon the manner in which these offi-
cials, who interpret the law, change and twist
about the principles of government. Urged
the sisters to pray for those who had to be
brought before the courts, that they might be
inspired by the Spirit of God. Counseled
those who were foreign born to become natural-
ized citizens of the United States, that they
might have the privilege of voting at elections.
Said, "Let us pray for those who are in prison,
that they may be sustained and nourished; and
let us not encourage too much the pursuit of
pleasure and folly in our midst, but give the
young good counsel, and live so that the Lord
will make bare His arm for our deliverance."
	Prest. Horne made the closing speech, in
which she spoke of the sisters coming to their
conferences, of observing the Sabbath Day
holy in the household, and spoke strongly
against supporting our enemies and going after
the ways of the Gentiles. "The Lord wants
us to separate ourselves from the world, and
be a peculiar people. Let us be united and
work for the interest of the kingdom of God.
It is a time to be humble, that we may be able
to overcome and stand the test." Made some
remarks concerning Bro. Farnsworth's vision.
She said: "The time is not far distant when
there will be terrible groaning among the un-
godly and the enemies of this people; the rich
among us have the good things of this life,
and many are doing good, helping in various
ways to build up this work; the righteous poor
are doing the very best they can in helping to
build up the societies, and the Lord will pour
out His blessing upon them." Gave excellent
counsel to mothers in regard to watching over
their daughters, and in the care of children—
their training, and preserving their health.
Spoke of the condition of the nation, and the
account that must yet be given to the Almighty
for the shedding of the blood of Prophets and
Elders sent unto them with a message of salva-
tion. Closed by saying, "Let us pray humbly to
God that we may pass safely the evil day."
Conference adjourned to December. Singing.
Benediction by Prest. M. I. Horne.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REMINISCENCES OF THE Y. L.M.I.A.
CONFERENCE.

On the 19th of September I was privileged
to attend this conference in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, and it was a time of
refreshing to me, for I had not been feeling
well for some days, and felt inert, and in a
meditative mood, and it required some moral
courage to make the visit; but at two o’clock I
found myself seated in the room, and survey-
ing a goodly number of young girls, all looking
the personification of youth, which, in its self
is beauty.  They were all sweetly dressed, and
as I viewed the same, a panorama of the future
of those young people seemed to open before
me, and caused my heart to fill up with con-
tending emotions. They all unconscious of
their impending destiny, probably not giving
it a thought, though there might be some
minds drawn into a reflective mood—the fact
that they were there “in session” proved they
were living members, and in the present age of
apathy and indifference, among many of our
young people, that is saying much. The choir
was select, and the hymns impressively ren-
dered. I think it was the Eighth Ward
choir.	
	Sister Dougal presided in the unavoidable
absence of Sister Freeze, and she filled the
chair admirably. She is indeed her father’s
daughter, and resembles him in features and
physique, and of that she may be proud—far
more than if her brow was encircled by the
coronet of a countess.
	Her words to the young people were words
of rarest affection and wisdom.  I feel that
they did fall in good ground, and will bring
forth sweet fruit.
	Miss Colebrook spoke with touching earnest-
ness, giving some of her youthful experience,
and it was an epitome of the experience of a
young Latter-day Saint.
	Sister E. Taylor spoke, as she always does,
wisely and to the edification of her hearers. I
felt I would have loved to hear some of those
young voices adding their intellectual morccau
to the delightful spiritual treat. I shall live
on a hope that we shall yet be so gratified, for
it would certainly add very much to the in-
terest of the meeting, though all was good,and
a heavenly spirit prevailed the assembly. I
feel these Associations, with the Primaries, are
effecting much good. They are schools that
cultivate the minds of all who attend them—
both children and officers. I always feel that
I gain some instruction, or some information
when I attend one, and I pray that the youth
of both sexes will realize the importance of
enrolling themselves among so goodly a com-
pany, for the angels are there, and the smile
and approbation of our God is upon them.
	When I left the room, I felt well and strong,
and my spirit as elastic as any one in that as-
sembly. I imbibed the sweet influence—as the
magnet influences the needle. What more
testimony need we have than such healthful,
effects upon our systems? Oh! let us not only
sing that heavenly song, “Nearer, my God; to
Thee,” but actually try to live so that we may
indeed attain that life-giving proximity.
	HANNAH T. KING.
	September 22nd, 1885.


[Column 1]

A PLEASANT UNION.

	On Thursday, September 24th, the Relief
Society of the Eighth Ward in this city had a
pleasant re-union. Preparations were made
beforehand, by appointing committees to per-
fect the arrangements. Three, committee of
arrangements, three on reception, and eight on
vitation.
	The meeting was held in the Assembly
Rooms of the ward, commencing at 2 o'clock
p.m. Mrs. Esther B. Fletcher presiding

[Column 2]

Among those invited were the leading brethren
of the ward, and quite a number of sisters
from other parts of the city. After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. McMurrain; then
singing.
	Prest. Fletcher made a few opening remarks,
referring to the trouble and difficulties of the
present day; the need of faith and union.
	Sister Phebe W. Woodruff thought these
were trying times, but after a time these
troublee would disperse and leave us peaceful
and quiet, if we would only be firm and hold
on to the iron rod.
	Sister Elizabeth Howard said this was a sad
re-union, in consequence of the trials through
which we were passing; "but yet, these days
are glorious; the prophecies are being fulfilled,
and we know that whatever comes, we are sure
to conquer." Thought we should exercise our
faith, and offer up prayers for those who are in
bonds and in prison, and for all, that they may
stand firm to their integrity whatever may
come, etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the educational
advantages we enjoy through the organizations;
the strength it gives to our faith; of the pro-
gress which had been made by the faithful
sisters; of the bountiful harvest, and the great
plenty the Saints enjoyed; of the exit from Nau-
voo, and the experiences of Winter Quarters,
etc.
	Sister E. S. Taylor alluded, in her remarks,
to the trials the sisters had gone through, and
the noble sacrifices they had willingly made
for principle, and spoke of the women of Zion
as the very best upon the face of the earth.
Spoke of the trials the brethren are now called
to pass through, and the opportunity of test-
ing their integrity.
	Sister B. W. Smith said it seemed very hard
for our brethren to have to go to prison, "but
it is not so bad as it was in times past, when
they had to leave their families destitute. Re-
ferred to incidents of her own experience in
the early days of the church; the times of
mobbings in Missouri, and contrasted it with
our condition now, etc.
	Sister M. I. Horne spoke of punctuality,
and of humility,and keeping the Sabbath Day
holy. Said the Lord always warned the peo-
ple,through His servants, of any judgments
that were coming upon them, and illustrated
her remarks by Scriptural quotations, and the
relating of instances when God had made
special announcements, and had given the peo-
ple an opportunity of escape by listening to
the voice of His servants. Exhorted the sis-
ters to faithfulness and diligence in prayer and
good works.
	Coun. McMurrain occupied a short time;
spoke of the crusade and its object, and ex-
pressed his good feelings toward the Relief So-
ciety, and his determination to prove true to
his integrity in keeping the commandments of
God. Referred to Prest. Heber C. Kimball's
saying we would all have trials enough, as
many as we are able to stand. Felt that he
had not had many as yet, but hoped to have
faith and courage when most needed and "hold
on to the iron rod," and all would be well.
Said many other good things.
	Bro. A. Smith hoped he would be able to
stand firm and faithful whatever he might be
called upon to endure; rejoiced in the Gospel,
and in the association of the noble men and
women who were laboring in the interests of
the kingdom of God. Thought the Lord was
determined to have a tried and proven people.
His remarks, throughout, were very interest-
ing.
	Coun. Brockbank realized this was an im-
portant time in which we were living. "Many
families are being tried; the Lord has said he
is displeased with none who are willing to be
tried for His sake and acknowledge His hand."
Felt in sympathy with the Saints of God, etc.

[Column 3]

	Coun. Jane Cowan expressed herself as grati-
fied with all that had been said, and thanked
all those who had assisted towards preparing
and arranging for the re-union, as also the
brethren and sisters,who were the invited guests,
for responding to the invitation, and those
who had spoken for their good counsel and
words of comfort and encouragement.
	Elder Royal B. Young said, among many
other good things, that he hoped to remain on
the deck of the good old ship Zion whatever
storms might arise. Thought there were a
great many things worse than dying for our
religion. Prayed that God would increase our
faith and firmness, and if we were united all
would be well, and we would be able to con-
quer, for the promises of the Lord could not
fail.
	Bro. John Conelly made some very interest-
ing remarks. The choir sang, "Hark, listen
to the trumpeters," etc. Benediction by Elder
Royal Barney.
	After the close of the meeting, a sumptuous
repast was partaken of, tables having been set
in the hall, and beautifully ornamented with
flowers of the choicest varieties—the gift of
Bro. Samuel Teasdel. After supper there was
music and songs by the young ladies, and, we
must not forget to mention the charming young
girls in white aprons, who waited upon the
tables with such grace and dignity. All was
arranged in perfect order, and every one
seemed to realize that the spirit of the Lord
brooded over the assembly.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	Pittsburg, Pa., September 13th, 1885.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Dear Sister—It is with feelings of pleasure
that I write to you once, more. It always
affords me joy to commune with those who
have obeyed the Gospel in its fulness, and
have been partakers of that Holy Spirit which
flows on those who strive to live by its teach-
ings; those only can realize the same who are
in possession of the same, and when I address
a few lines to those who are in connection
with this Church, it seems to me like writing
home, for my heart and feelings are with them;
and when I read that worthy paper, the EX-
PONENT, and read the pieces therein from the
sisters, and the progress they are making, I
many times ask God to bless them. I feel re-
freshed and strengthened in reading those
noble communications contained there. I
have learned many ideas on the principles of
this Church from that source.
	With being so long absent from the Saints,
having no one to ask questions of, and some
principles which had not been explained to
me while associated with them, I am proud to
state I have had explanations of doctrine from
the sisters of this Church. I must in justice
make honorable mention of one to whom I
owe a debt of gratitude—Sister Helen Mar
Whitney. From her pen I received light and
instruction, which, for many years, was in
ignorance of, and for which I have been seek-
ing, and, on arriving at a knowledge of
what I had been seeking, I could not tell my
feelings; and when I read the reports of the
meetings, and the remarks made there, with
the prospects for the future, I do pray many
times for the privilege to be there and hear the
same. Many times, when alone, meditating on
your position at those happy seasons, I ask my-
self the question, “Will it ever be my happy
lot to mingle with the Saints of God once
more?” It almost seems a lifetime since I en-
joyed that happy privilege, but my heart is
with you, your feelings and hopes are mine, and
at different times, when meditating on this
work and its benign principles, when the paper
comes and I read, I find the same feelings and


words used that I had presented to me in
meditation. It makes me feel well to realize
there are some who have the same hope and
feelings I have.
  I am living my religion all I can.  I want
to do what my Father tells me to do; I want
to be one of His good sons.  I am very thank-
ful for his loving kindness to me of late.  I
want to come home, for I have something to
attend to as yet in the holy house of the Lord,
which was predicted on my head at confirma-
tion, and I shall come to see you in Zion the
first chance; I shall not wait for a second one.
My prayers are all the time for the faithful.
  I will here state that some time back I felt
in trouble for you.  My paper failed to come,
I wondered what was wrong.  I thought the
skull dragons were giving you some trouble.  I
prayed for God to help you and give you His
Holy Spirit to enable you to stand the trials,
if any had come to you, but I learned that you
were still going ahead, as usual, in your good
work; and may God bless the worthy sisters
who are laboring in this heavenly work, is my
humble prayer.	H. M. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PRIMARY FAIR.

   A Stake Primary Fair was held in Monroe,
Sevier Co., Utah, September 11th and 12th,
1885, commencing at nine o'clock a.m. Friday,
and closing at four o'clock p.m. Saturday. It
being harvest time, and the people being so
busy with labor, was mostly the cause of the
Fair not being a success. There were
several settlements no represented, hence
there was not as good a showing as we all antici-
pated and hoped for, yet great praise is due
those that were interested in preparing articles
for the Fair
 Among the most noticable articles were the
following:  Rugs, quilts, tidies, ornamental
baskets, a very nice cross, home made hats, a
home made carpet, zephyr flowers, some very
pretty dressed dolls and other fancy work; also
wagons, wheelbarrows, ladders, etc., some
vegetables, raised by the little boys, and some
cooking, done by the little girls, which was ex-
cellent.
  On Friday evening a free dance was extend-
ed by the citizens of Monroe, in behalf of the
visitors, which was very pleasant, and every
body present seemed to enjoy themselves.
  Great credit is due the committee, and those
that were interested in making the Fair a pleas-
ant one.
		A member of the Primary,
					NANCY NEBEKER.
   Richfield, Sep. 3rd, 1885.


TO A GENTILE LADY.

MRS. EMILY SCOTT, OF OHIO.

  Your sensible letter, in the EXPONENT of
August the 1st, was interesting to many beside
myself. I was well pleased with it, for I
thought you were a true Democrat and could
see no crime nor disgrace in plural marriage.
You say you think, sometimes, of going to the
Mormons and writing your lecture about the
Gentiles. I would be sure to go, and if you
are afraid of the persecution going on there
now, you can find some very good Mormons in
Alabama that would be glad to see you. Write
again for the EXPONENT, or address,
JOHN M. RUSSELL,
Alabama, August 14, 1885.


RE-ORGANIZATION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
  On the 26th inst., in company with Sisters
Sarah M. Kimball and Elizabeth Townsend, I


attended an annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I.
A. in Providence, and we had a very pleasant
and interesting time.
  Mrs. Lowe, a daughter of the late Seth M.
Blair, has faithfully and efficiently presided
over the Association ever since its organization,
but her many increasing cares and responsibili-
ties rendering it advisable, with the consent of
the Bishop of the ward, who was present, she
tendered her resignation, and Miss Emily
Theurer was chosen to fill the vacancy, with
Mary A. Marler and Emma Hammond as
Counselors.			     E. R. S. S.


"Mothers and teachers do not take much
pains to train their children and pupils into
good habits of enunciation. They are carefully
taught to sing, but they are not carefully
taught to read and speak; yet more than half
the charm of all social intercourse depends
upon the agreeable use of the voice."


IN MEMORIAM.

  DIED, at her residence, in the 18th Ward, in Salt Lake,
Sunday, September 13, at half past one o'clock, Mrs.
Mary Sloan, widow of the late E. L. Sloan, well known
here as an editor and journalist. Mrs. Sloan had been
ailing since last fall, yet, although so long afflicted, her
death was very sudden and unexpected. Deceased was
born in Crawfords-burn, County Down, Ireland, July
3rd, 1835. She was married to Edward L. Sloan when
seventeen years of age, and has been the mother of eleven
children. Eight of the number having gone before her to
join the innumerable hosts behind the vail, three are now
left to mourn the loss of one of the kindest and most in-
dulgent mothers that ever lived. Robert W., her eldest
son, is now on a mission to Ireland, where her aged
father is still living. Maggie, the only surviving daughter,
and Edward L., a younger son, are the two left at home,
and to them the loss is heavy indeed, as well as to the one
who is absent, but the Lord can and will comfort them, if
they go to him for consolation.
  Mrs. Sloan was one of those quiet, good-natured, un-
pretending women, who live in the hearts of their friends,
and are best known for their good and kindly deeds in
their own neighborhoods. She was generous and noble
in principle, affectionate and charitable in feeling, and was
always found doing good to those who stood in need of
sympathy or comfort--tender and delicate in her way of
ministering to those in need.
  The funeral services were held at the Eighteenth Ward
Chapel, Bishop O. F. Whitney conducting the services.
The speakers were her particular friends--Hon. John T.
Caine, Elder McGhee, the Bishop and Counselor Robert
Patrick, who all had words of praise, and spoke of her with
respect and affection. The singing by the ward choir was
ver good, especially when they rendered the sublime
hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee," etc. The benediction
was pronounced by Elder John Nicholson.
  It seemed to us quite appropriate, in connection with
this death, to publish the beautiful poem "At Rest,"
composed by her son since he left home, while walking in
one of those old graveyards in his mother's native land.


OBITUARY.

  It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the death of
Sister Mary Ann Brown Warr, of the First Ward of this
city, who departed this life on Sunday, August 30th, 1885,
in her forty-first year, and we recognize in the death of
our sister the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher,
and we deeply sympathize with the bereaved family in the
loss of an affectionate wife and mother, and faithful Latter-
day Saint.
Now she's gone, we'd not recall her
	   From a paradise of bliss,
Where no evil can befall her,
	   To a changing world like this.			 COM.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 206, SALT LAKE CITY. 
[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	Importers and Jobbers of
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S.  ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112,114,116,118 East Temple Street.
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
		AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
		CALL AND EXAMINE.
A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR MAGGIE C SHIPP
		WILL COMMENCE HER
Class in Midwifery, SEPT. 23, '85.
	Every advantage and attention will be given students
to secure their rapid advancement and proficiency in
their studies.
Tuition per Term, 	$10.00.
Books, 			13.00.
Office and Residence, 34  Seventh East Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 14	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1885.	No. 10.


[Column 1]
﻿AN EPISTLE FROM THE FIRST
		PRESIDENCY.
			-------
To the Officers and Members of the
   Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
   day Saints:
  BRETHREN AND SISTERS.—As the
time for holding our Semi-annual Con-
ference has again come around, and we
are still prevented from addressing the
Saints in public, we deem it proper to
take this method of communicating
with you, that you may know the coun-
sel we have to give, and that we are not
neglectful of the duties which devolve
upon us as the First Presidency of the
Church.
  As all the Saints doubtless under-
stand, there has been no cessation since
we last wrote, in the work of persecu-
tion. It rages, if anything, more fierce-
ly than ever. Under cover of what is
called the Edmunds law, the most
outrageous acts of oppression are being
perpetrated against the Latter-day
Saints. The avowal has been openly
made that this law was expressly de-
signed for the destruction of a principle
of our religion, and in this spirit all
the prosecutions have been conducted.
Thus far no criminal, however guilty,
who has not been a “Mormon,” has
been punished under it. Acts of the
most sickening depravity have been
committed by non-“Mormons” within
easy reach of its arm but have scarce-
ly had a passing notice. While it is
also worthy of note that, up to the
present writing, out of all who have
been accused and brought before the
District court, only one “Mormon” has
been acquitted. The man acquitted,
we understand, was charged with being
the husband of a woman, on the ground
that he had camped in his wagon in a
ten acre lot in which her residence
stood and had carried some chickens
for her to market!
  One of the most remarkable features
connected with the administration of
this law is the extraordinary rulings
which are made in its enforcement.
The Judge who presides in the Second
Judicial District, in the recent trial of
a case of unlawful cohabitation, gave
instructions to the jury, at the request
of the defense. Several accused per-
sons would have been cleared in the
Third Judicial District, had the juries.
which rendered verdicts in their cases,
been similarly instructed. They are as
follows:
 1. Prior to the act of March 22d, 1882, co-
habitation with more than one woman was
not unlawful.
  2.  If you find from the evidence that the
defendant, since the passage of the Ed-
munds act, March 22d, 1882, and within the
dates named in the indictment, has not held
out to the world, introduced, or announced
more than one of the women named in the
indictment as his wife, you should acquit
the defendant.
  3.  It is not necessary that the parties to
a polygamous marriage, or who have lived
in the practice of cohabiting with two or
more women, should divorce themselves, in
order to entitle them to the presumption of
innocence of cohabitation after the passage
of the law.
  4.  As all children of polygamous mar-
riages, begotten before March 22nd, 1882,are
legitimated,and no cohabitation before that
date was unlawful, no criminating infer-
ence can be drawn by the jury from the de-
fendant’s later acknowledgments of his pa-
ternity of such children by the women men-
tioned in the indictment, nor from later
recognition of such women as their
mothers, and as women whom he had be-
fore said date, taken into the polygamous
relation with him.
  6.  The law presumes innocence, and
therefore, that all persons who were co-
habiting when the Edmunds act took effect,
contrary to the provisions of that act, then
ceased to do so.
  8.  The law presumes all persons charged
with a criminal offense to be innocent until
the presumption is overcome by proof;
therefore it presumes that all persons who
were living with more than one woman as
wives prior to March 22d, 1882, have since
that date ceased to so live and cohabit.
  9.  If you find from the evidence that de-
fendant had children by the women named
in the indictment prior to March 22d, 1882,
then the defendant had a right to visit his
children, and support them and make ar-
rangements as to their welfare. He had a
right also to assist their mothers in their
support, and for such a purpose could visit

[Column 2]
the house where they and their mothers
live. He could furnish them a home, he
could visit the mother, the same as if they
had been divorced, or as if no such previous
relations had existed between them, but he
should not associate with her as a husband
associates with his wife.

  Do we say too much if we state that
there are those now undergoing punish-
ment in the penitentiary in the society
of thieves and murderers, who would
be as free as the prosecuting officers
themselves, had the law been construed
by the legal canons applied to other
laws, and according to the instruc-
tions given above?
  The practice in these attacks upon us
has not been to presume the accused
innocent until proved guilty; but to
view him as undoubtedly guilty because
accused; and the rulings of the Court
in several instances have been made to
secure conviction where the evidence
was open to question. The extraordi-
nary ruling concerning “holding out,”
is one in point; notwithstanding the
Edmunds law sp[-]ci[-]ies that the pena[-]ty
for unlawful cohabitation, shall not be
more than six months’ imprisonment,
and three hundred dollars’ fine, the
notorious ruling from the same bench
concerning the number of indictments
which can be found against a person
accused of unlawful cohabitation,
states that he not only can be indicted
once for the whole period since the
passage of the law, but an indictment
can be found for every week of that
time; so that, if found guilty in this
manner, a man’s punishment would
aggregate an imprisonment of 92 years
and fines to the amount of $55,200.
 Still more extraordinary is the ruling
of another Judge, who, not to be out-
done in his zeal, says, that an indict-
ment can be found for this charge
against a man for every day,or other dis-
tinct interval of time since the enact-
ment of the law!  As about 1292 days have
passed since then, a man found guilty
can be incarcerated in prison for 646
years and made pay fines to the amount
of $387,600. Comment upon this ab-
surdity is unnecessary.
  Before the Edmunds bill became
law, and while on its passage, it was
claimed that its provisions were of
general application and in the interests
of morality, and not, as we asserted,
a measure directly aimed at religious
liberty and for purposes of persecu-
tion. But time has fully revealed its
true character. Stripped of all dis-
guise it stands out now in all its hide-
ousness. The most shocking immor-
ality flourishes in its presence and
thrives under the very eyes of its ad-
ministrators. All forms of vice, if not
directly encouraged by those who are
charged with the duty of administering
the Edmunds law, are at least viewed
by them with indifference. They ap-
pear to have no care as to the most
flagrant sexual crimes, if they are only
committed by non-“Mormons,”or out-
side of the pale of matrimony. “Mor-
mons” also, under the present admin-
istration of the law, may do what they
please with women, be guilty of the
foulest injustice to them and their off-
spring, if they will only disown them
as wives. The war is openly and un-
disguisedly made upon our religion.
To induce men to repudiate that, to
violate its precepts and to break its
solemn covenants, every encourage-
ment is given. The man who agrees to
discard his wife or wives,and to tram-
ple upon the most sacred obligations
which human beings can enter into,
escapes imprisonment and is ap-
plauded; while the man who will not
make this compact of dishonor, who
will not admit that his past life has
been a fraud and a lie, who will not
say to the world, “I intended to de-
ceive my God, my brethren and my
wives by making covenants I did not
expect to keep,” is, besides being pun-
ished to the full extent of the law,
compelled to endure the reproaches,
taunts and insults of a brutal judge.
  Notwithstanding all these cruelties
are practiced against us, we do not feel
that, as Latter-day Saints, we should
mourn because of them. We should
mourn because of our weaknesses

[Column 3]
follies and sins, and repent of them
But to be persecuted, to be discrimin-
ated against, to be separated from the
rest of the world, to be imprisoned and
abused are not causes of sorrow to true
Saints; they are causes of rejoicing.
If, in the great hereafter, we expect to
be admitted to the society of the Son of
God, our Redeemer, to the society
of Prophets and Apostles, and holy
men and women, ought we not to
be willing to endure the tribula-
tions which they received so joy-
fully? Where is the Prophet or
Apostle who did not endure persecu-
tion, whose liberty and life were not in
almost constant jeopardy? They did
not have an Edmunds law, perhaps,
enforced against them; but they had
laws which emanated from the same
source. With few exceptions they
were all punished, deprived of  [-]iberty
and of life, in the sacred name of law.
Even the holiest Being that ever trod
the earth, the great Redeemer of man-
kind himself, was crucified between
two thieves to satisfy Jewish law.
  There has probably never been a time
in the history of mankind when those
whom we now revere as martyrs and
whose sacrifices adorn and glorify our
humanity and lift it nearer to God,
could not, by being recreant to the
truth entrusted to them, have escaped
the fate which made them so admirable
to the generations which followed
them. The Savior himself had it in his
power to compromise with his enemies
and escape the cruel and ignominious
death inflicted upon him. Abraham
might have bowed to the gods of his
idolatrous father and needed no angel
to rescue him from his impending
doom. Daniel and his three brethren,
also, might have submitted to the de-
cree and law of the ruling powers un-
der which they lived and escaped the
fiery furnace and the den of lions.
Their refusals to obey the decree and
law doubtless appeared to those who
had not the knowledge of God which
they possessed, as acts of wicked ob-
stinancy that should be summarily
punished. But had they, to escape the
threatened penalty,obeyed these edicts,
posterity would have lost the benefit
of their example, and the great God
would not have been glorified before
their contemporaries as He was by
their acts. Instead of their names be-
ing, as now, radiant with light and re-
splendent with heroism, they would,
had they reached us, been covered with
odium and been mentioned in the same
category with the Jews concerning
whom the Prophet Jeremiah said:
“They bend their tongues like their
bow for lies;but they are not valiant for
the truth upon the earth; for they pro-
ceed from evil to evil, and they know
not me, saith the Lord.”
 Well-meaning friends of ours have
said that our refusal to renounce the
principle of celestial marriage invites
destruction. They warn us and im-
plore us to yield.  They appeal to every
human interest and adjure us to bow to
a law, which is admitted on all hands to
have  been framed expressly for the de-
struction of the principle which we are
called upon to reject. They say it is
madness to resist the will of so over-
whelming a majority. They say they
see the gathering clouds,that they hear
the premonitory mutterings of the re-
sistless tempest which is about to
break in destructive fury upon our
heads, and they call upon us to avert
its wrath by timely submission. But
they perceive not the hand of that
Being who controls all storms,whose
voice the tempest obeys, at whose [--]at
thrones and empires are thrown down
—the Almighty God, Lord of heaven
and earth, who has made promises to
us and who has never failed to fulfill all
His words.
  We did not reveal celestial marriage.
We cannot withdraw or renounce it.
God revealed it, and He has promised
to maintain it and to bless those who
obey it. Whatever fate, then, may
threaten us, there is but one course
for men of God to take, that is,to keep
inviolate the holy covenants they have
made in the presence of God and an-
gels. For the remainder, whether it

[Column 4]
be life or death, freedom or imprison-
ment, prosperity or adversity, we must
trust in God. We may say, however,
if any man or woman, expects to enter
into the celestial kingdom of our God
without making sacrifices and without
being tested to the very uttermost,they
have uot understood the Gospel.If there
is a weak spot in our nature,or if there
is a fibre that can be made to quiver or
to shrink, we may rest assured that it
will be tested. Our own weaknesses
will be brought fully to light, and in
seeking for help, the strength of our
God will also be made manifest to us.
The Latter-day Saints have been
taught this from the beginning. Such
scenes as we now witness in these
mountains and hear about in lands
where the Elders are preaching the
Gospel ought not to be a surprise to us.
The Prophets and Apostles and Elders
of this dispensation would be false
Prophets and Apostles and Elders if
these events did not take place; for
they have predicted them and warned
the people unceasingly concerning
them.
  Speaking concerning law,the Lord,in
a revelation given through the Prophet
Joseph, August 6th, 1833, says:

  4. And now, verily I say unto you con-
cerning the laws of the land, it is my will
that my people should observe to do all
things whatsoever I command them;
  5.  And that law of the land which is con-
stitutional, supporting that principle of-
freedom in maintaining rights and privi-
leges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifi-
able before me;
  6.  Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and
your brethren of my church. in befriending
that law which is the constitutional law of
the land;
  7.  And as pertaining to law of man, what-
soever is more or less than these cometh of
evil.
  8.  I, the Lord God, make you free, there-
fore ye are free indeed; and the law also
maketh you free;
  9.  Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the
people mourn.
  10.  Wherefore, honest men and wise men
should be sought for diligently, and good
men and wise men ye should observe to up-
hold; otherwise whatsoever is less than
these cometh of evil.
  11.  And I give unto you a commandment,
that ye shall forsake all evil and cleave unto
all good, that ye shall live by every word
which proceedeth forth out of the month of
God;
  12.  For he will give unto the faithful line
upon line, precept upon precept; and I will
try you and prove you herewith;
  13.  And whoso layeth down his life in my
cause, for my name’s sake, shall find it
again. even life eternal;
 14.  Therefore be not afraid of your ene-
mies, for I have decreed in my heart, saith
the Lord, that I will prove you in all things,
whether you will abide in my covenant even
unto death, that you may be found worthy;
  15.  For if ye will not abide in my cove-
nant, ye are not worthy of me.

 Fifty-two years have passed since
this was given to the Church, and we
are now witnessing its fulfilment.  The
Saints are required to do whatsoever
the Lord commands them, to live by
every word which proeeedeth forth out
of the mouth of God. They are also
instructed to befriend every constitu-
tional law of the land; for such laws
support the principle of freedom; they
maintain rights and privileges This,
as a people, we have striven to do from
the beginning of our organization. We
have ever been a law-abiding people.
Times without number we have suf-
fered the most grievous wrongs with-
out resenting them. We have ever
thought it better to suffer wrong than
to do wrong.
  Such was the case when we suffered
expatriation from the State of Mis-
souri. We were robbed and pillaged,
despoiled and persecuted, yet we had
no idea of retaliating on account of
these wrongs upon the government
and its institutions, which to us are
sacred. The same loyal spirit animated
us when we were beset by blood-
thirsty mobs in Illinois, one of which
murdered Joseph Smith, our Prophet,
and Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, while
they were under the pledged protection
of the State, given through the gov-
ernor. On the same occasion one of
the signers of this address was also
brought to the gate of death, by being


shot by the same band of assassins.
When driven from the homes we had
established in Illinois, we had no
disposition to hold the nation
at large nor the government
of our beloved country responsible for
those inhuman deeds, nor to allow the
spirit of vengeance to rankle in our
hearts. We took the first opportunity
to exhibit the spirit of true patriotism.
While undergoing great hardship on
account of being subjected to a com-
pulsory exodus, when called upon by
the government to furnish a body of
men to take part in the war with 
Mexico, 500 of the flower of our camp
responded with alacrity, and in ac-
cordance with the call of our country,
traversed the great American desert,
penetrated to Mexico, and com-
pleted an arduous and hazardous
campaign, and journey to California.
   You have no doubt read, through the
papers, an account of the terrible af-
fair which recently occurred at Rock
Springs, in Wyoming Territory. We
could not help feeling a little anxiety
lest some of our people should have
been connected with that bloody riot,
and immediately requested Brother
Cluff, President of Summit Stake, to
inquire into the matter. So far as we
have obtained information to the pres-
ent, however, we find that not more
than one has been in any way mixed up
with that matter, and he a person of
doubtful standing. We are pleased to
learn of this, because we cannot as-
sociate with any deeds so revolting
and inhuman, and we take this oppor-
tunity to express our opinion on this
subject to the Saints. A great number
of secret societies are being formed
with which we cannot affiliate. Such 
organizations are generally inimical to
law, to good order, and in many in-
stances subversive of the rights of
man. We cannot amalgamate with
them. They are very distinctly spoken
against in the Book of Mormon, as
among the calamities which should af-
flict the people.
   We are expressly commanded, and it
becomes our duty, to uphold and sus-
tain every law of the land which is con-
stitutional; we have always had a strong
desire to obey such laws, and to place
ourselves in harmony with all the in-
stitutions of the country.
   We repeat that we desire that all
men should be aware of the fact that
we have been the upholders of the
Constitution and laws enacted in pur-
suance of that sacred instrument.
We still entertain the same patriotic
disposition, and propose to continue
acting in conformity with with it to the last.
Neither have we any desire to come in
active conflict even with statures that
we deem opposed to the Constitution 
both in letter and spirit. Whatever
opposition has been offered in that line
has been only of such a character as
is justified by the usages and cus-
toms of this and all other civilized 
countries, and such as the laws and in-
stitutions of this nation provide. Nor
have we the least desire to shun the
consequences of our acts in their rela-
tionship to the laws to which we refer,
providing there were any assurance
that our cases would be submitted to a
fair and just adjudication. Events of
the past few months give no ground
for hope that such treatment
would be accorded. It must be con-
tended, however, that, as stated else-
where, connected with this disposition
to have our conduct passed upon as
provided by law administered in the
genius of justice, there never can be
any hope of our yielding up, under any
circumstances, a principle of consci-
entious or religious conviction. Were
we to make such a surrender our con-
duct in that respect would not be in
harmony with the guaranties of the
Constitution, which we are in duty
bound to uphold.
   In order to place our people at a dis-
advantage, and to crush out their re-
ligious system, the Constitution has
been violated in a number of ways. It
does not require any depth of legal
learning to understand what is meant
by a religious test, which is forbidden
by the "supreme law of the land."
Yet laws have been passed applicable
to a wide section of this northwestern 
country, disfranchising and inflicting
total political disability upon our peo-
ple, without regard to their acts. The
offense for which this restriction has
been prescribed is simply religious be-
lief, and the means of application is a
religious test. It is consequently un-
constitutional upon its face. This and
other laws--notably the Edmunds act--
inflict disabilities upon those of our 
people who are not in any way asso-
ciated, by their acts, with polygamy.
Thus probably about nine-tenths
of our community are punished
for alleged offenses for which
they are in no way responsible,
and in which they have taken no part. 
Surely no person who is unbiased, that
gives this subject even the most casual
attention can characterize such treat-
ment as other than flagrantly unjust.
   It has been estimated that out of a
community of about 200,000 people, 
more or less, from 10,000 to 12,000 are 
identified with polygamy. When the
Edmunds act was passed this small
minority who were deprived by it of
the right to vote or hold office, volun-
tarily, without the application of
coercion, withdrew from those priv-
ileges, notwithstanding the high esti-
mate they placed upon them. It may
well be asked wherein is the justice of
placing the bulk of the people at a dis-
advantage as well, seeing they have
done nothing to furnish an excuse for
such treatment? Granting that the
small minority connected with polyg-
amy are criminals before the law,
what justification is there, on that ac-
count, for punishing, as the Edmunds 
and other acts do, the overwhelming
majority? If such doings were per-
petrated in any other connection they
would be unsparingly denounced as
oppressive and tyrannical in the most
extreme degree. If one portion of a
community are designated as criminal,
to hold the other and much the greaterportion responsible for such a condi-
tion is not only unjust, but decidedly 
absurd.
   Statements upon this subject have
been made to the Chief Executive of
the nation, in the form of a protest and
petition for redress of grievances.
Knowing that misrepresentations have
taken the place of impartial scrutiny
of the question with which the Latter-
day Saints are associated, the conse-
quences being a general misapprehen-
sion of the community and their af-
fairs, we presumed that Mr. Cleveland
was not acquainted with the real situa-
tion. An opportunity was thus sought
to acquaint him with the facts. The
very reasonable desire was expressed
in this connection that a commission
of inquiry be appointed, that the truth
might appear and be given to the na-
tion. Was it too much to expect that
this action, supported by a represen-
tation of 200,000 people, would meet
with some favorable response, which
thus far has not, however, been made?
Yet it would be unfair to attribute the
delay of the President either to indif-
ference or a disposition to refuse to
accord justice to a people whose liber-
ties are being trampled upon to an ex-
tent that is almost past human endur-
ance. It is still hoped that he will
take some consistent and humane
action in the premises. In alluding to
the delay in granting a response to the
representations made to the President,
we must not forget the extensive and
arduous character of the duties de-
volving upon him, as the head of the
administration of a great government.
We mention this that you may not be
disposed to be too censorious in re-
gard to the actions of men in high
places who have the power to redress
our grievances. And even when we
feel that we are wronged, it is proper
for us to follow the example of our
Lord and Master, and say: "Father,
forgive them, they know not what they
do."
   Referring once more to the situation
in a more local sense, we are not obli-
vious to the anomalous position in
which the Federal judicial officers are
placed in dealing with a subject which
appears to occupy a large share of
popular attention. While it is impos-
sible for them to escape pro-
nounced exceptions being taken to
their official course, on account
of its harshness, undue rigor, and
unjust discrimination in adminis-
tering the laws, they are entitled to
some consideration, justified by well
understood circumstances. The Lat-
ter-day Saints are the objects of popu-
lar obloquy. Their institutions appear
to be greatly disliked. The officers are
doubtless influenced by the general
clamor for the application of heroic
treatment to the Saints. They them-
selves have doubtless been influenced 
to some degree by personal prejudices,
and their official conduct, by these con-
ditions, is thrown out of balance.
While their course cannot be sustained
in the light of tfair play, some allowance
should be made on account of the lia-
bility of the human mind to be warped
by influences in conflict with the prin-
ciples which should universally obtain
in courts of law and presumed justice.
Neither would it be justifiable on the
part of the Saints to entertain toward
them, on account of their departures
from their proper line of duty any ran-
corous or vengeful feeling. A spirit
of that character is not in unity with
the genius of the Gospel of peace. All
men are in the hands of a just God,
whose mighty, penetrating power is
capable of analyzing all the motives
which prompt human action, and He
can and will deal with us and them and
all men according to the principles of
eternal justice.
   Upwards of forty years ago the Lord
revealed to His Church the principle of
celestial marriage. The idea of marry-
ing more wives than one was as 
naturally abhorent to the leading men 
and women of the Church at that day
as it could be to any people. They
 shrank with dread from the bare
thought of entering into such relation-
ships. But the command of God was
before them in lagnuage which no faith-
ful soul dare disobey.
   "For, behold, I reveal unto you a
new and an everlasting covenant; and
if ye abide not that covenant, then are
ye damned; for no one can reject this
convenant, and be permitted to enter
into my glory.*	*	*	*	*	*
And as pertaining to the new and ever-
lasting covenant, it was instituted for
the fulness of my glory; and he that
receiveth a fulness thereof, must and
shall abide the law, or he shall be
damned, saith the Lord God."
   Damnation was the awful penalty
affixed to a refusal to obey this law.
It became an acknowledged doctrine
of the Church; it was indissolubly in-
terwoven in the minds of its members
with their hopes of eternal salvation
and exaltation in the presence of God.
For nearly twenty years this continued
to be our faith and practice. Then a
law was enacted against it. Another
twenty years elapsed, and the Ed-
munds law was passed. Nearly forty
years had thus elapsed from the first
revelation of this doctrine, during
which period thousands had lived and
died, firmly believing and solemnly
testifying that it was divine. At great
sacrifice they had obeyed it, and based
their hopes of eternal felicity upon the
promises which the revelation con-
tained. They never dreamed that they
had not a constitutional right to obey
God, especially when in obeying Him
they did not interfere with nor en-
croach upon the rights of any human
being, either man or woman. It never
entered into their minds to suppose for
a moment that man had a right, after
God had given a law to His Church for
its salvation and exaltation, to enact a
counter law forbidding, under severe
penalties, man's obedience to God's 
law. Who could suppose that any
man, in this land of religious liberty,
would presume to say to his fellow-
man that he had no right to take such
steps as he thought necessary to escape
damnation! Or that Congress would
enact a law which would present the
alternative to religious believers of
being consigned to a penitentiary if
they should attempt to obey a law of
God which would deliver them from
damnation! Or that, under a plea of
maintaining a certain form of civiliza-
tion, God's authority to direct His
people how to escape from the abomi-
nable corruptions and evils which are
eating out the vitals of man's much
vaunted civilization, should be dis-
puted and utterly rejected! What is
this "Mormon" problem, so-called, 
and why should it disturb the people?
It is an unpopular religion. But so
was that of the ancient Prophets.
Jesus told the Jews that they garnished 
the tombs of the dead Prophets; but
killed the living ones. They crucified
Jesus and were almost as unanimous 
in their cry to crucify Him, as the peo-
ple and rulers of the United States are
to-day to destroy the "Mormons."
They killed all of His Apostles except
one, and he was banished to work as a
slave on the Isle of Patmos. It is said
they cast him into a caldron of boiling
oil, but he was not killed; and if the
Scriptures are true, he still lives, for
he was to tarry till the coming of the 
Savior. We receive as the word of
God, and so do millions of the human
family, the writings and testimony of
the Prophets who were killed. It is
published by the millions of copies
and sent to the various nations of the
earth, by the very people who would
now seek to destroy us. Jesus, who
was crucified between two thieves, is
now worshiped by millions in Chris-
tendom as the Son of God, the Re-
deemer of the world. The Twelve
Apostles, his disciples, who suffered
such ignominious contumely and deah,
are now designated by the millions of 
Christendom as "The Apostles of the 
Lamb of God," and churches and
cathedrals are called after them, as St.
Peter, St. John, St. Mark, St. Luke,
etc.  It was then the "Christian  prob-
lem"--the same problem though called
by a different name. Was Jesus the
enemy of the people in His day? Only 
as He told them the truth.  "What
evil hath He done?" asked Pilate, the
Gentile Judge. No matter what evil
or what good, vociferated the Jews:
"Crucify him! crucify him!"  What
evil have the "Mormons" done? is
asked, and the cry comes back: No mat-
ter, no matter, let them be destroyed.
   By the circulation of endless slanders
and falsehoods concerning us and our
marriages, wrath and indignation have
been aroused against us in our nation.
The ignorance of the people concern-
ing us and our doctrines and system
have been taken advantage of. Con-
stant attempts have been, and still are
being made to induce the world to be-
lieve that our motive in espousing
patriarchal marriage has been the
gratification of gross sensuality--that
our belief in and practice of the doc-
trine had its origin in licentiousness,
and that the sanction of religion is mere-
ly invoked to furnish greater license for
the indulgence of base passions and
devouring lust. This, as you know, is
the exact antipodes of the truth. But
the world generally do not know it.
Those of them who know how utterly
false are these charges are either so
cowed down by a fierce public opinion
that they dare not speak, or if they 
have the courage to speak are almost
unheard amid the noisy clamor against
us. Thousands upon thousands of
honest people in this and other na-
tions, whose voices, did they know the
truth, would be raised in our favor,
are deceived by these lies and are ar-
rayed against us. This persecution, if
it serve no other purpose, will do
good in this direction. It brings home
to the hearts of the people, as no pro-
testations or arguments of ours ever
could do,  that there is something more
in this doctrine and practice than they
have been led to believe. Reflecting
people will see that there must be a
great principle involved in this, or men
and women would not be willing to
suffer fines, bonds and imprisonment
as they do.
   Is there any necessity for lustful
men and women in this age and nation
to suffer martyrdom to gratify their
passions? Whoever heard of a people
preferring imprisonment and all man-
ner of cruel treatment for the indulg-
ence of appetites which they could
gratify to the fullest extent in popular
ways, especially when the judges upon
the bench, the prosecuting attorneys
at the bar, the juries who bring in
verdicts, point out the way in which
marriage obligations can be discarded
and sensuality be gratified without
risk or without punishment? The
press and sectarian pulpits also echo
the advice. The universal voice is:
Put away your wives, cease to support
them and their children; be as we are,
and you need not be put under bonds,
be fined or be incarcerated in prison."
   Foul desire opens wide her arms and
invites all to her lecherous embrace by
easier paths than honorable marriageand the begetting of numerous chil-
dren to be carefully trained and edu-
cated and made respectable and use-
ful citizens.
   Will the world see this? Every man
who goes to prison for his religion,
every woman who, for love of truth
and the husband to whom she is bound
for time and eternity, submits to bonds
and imprisonment, bears a powerful
testimony to the world concerning the
falsity of the views they entertain res-
pecting us and our religion. If such
noble and heroic sacrifices as men
and women are now called upon to
make for their religion by Federal
Courts do not teach the world the
truth concerning us, then woe to the
world, for nothing but the wrath of
Almighty God will reach it.
   We join with all Saints in invoking
blessings upon the noble men and
women who have exhibited their in-
tegrity to God and His cause, and their
devotion to principle by submitting to
bonds and imprisonment rather than
deny their faith or break their cove-
nants. If anything were needed to
show to the world that our marriages
cannot be reduced to the level of the
vile practices to which our defamers
would drag them down, their heroic


conduct has furnished it. Thank God
that, so far in this persecution, at least
as large a proportion have stood the
test, without flinching or cowering, as
Jesus in His parable of the ten virgins,
intimidated would be ready to meet the
Bridegroom at His coming. Their
names will be held in everlasting
honor in time and eternity, not only as
martyrs for religious truth, but as
patriots who suffered in defense of the
principle of religious liberty.
	Truths, such as God has revealed in
these days, are not established without
suffering and sacrifice on the part of
those who espouse and advocate them.
It was for these truths that we were
driven time and again from our homes,
and were finally compelled to seek ref-
uge in this mountain country, then
known as the American desert. And
now again we are menaced with ruin;
and for what? Whom have we injured?
Upon whose rights have we trespassed?
It can be truthfully said we have not
injured or trespassed upon any. Have
we not, under the blessing of the Lord,
changed these barren valleys into
fruitful fields and gardens? Have we
not established and maintained good
and cheap government in every place
which we have settled? Has not every
man who came into our borders and
behaved himself been safe in his prop-
perty, person and religion? Have not
peace and good order been the fruits of
our presence? To all these we can an-
swer in the affirmative. Have we en-
deavored to force our doctrines or
practices upon any one? Have we in
any manner threatened the peace of our
neighbors or of the nation? We cer-
tainly have not.
	Respecting the doctrine of celestial
marriage, we could not, however much
we might be disposed to do so, teach it
to or enforce it upon, others not of our
[-]aith, without violating a command of
God. We do not stand in the attitude
of propagandists of polygamy. We
never have believed or taught that the
doctrine of celestial marriage was de-
signed for universal practice. The
Lord has made this clear, and recent
events among us have also made it
clear. "Strait is the gate," says Je-
sus, "and narrow the way that leadeth
unto  exaltation and continuation of
the lives, and few there be that find it."
	There appears to be a fallacious idea
abroad regarding this doctrine. It
has been asserted that there was
a design to propagate it outside
of our community, and thus in-
troduce into the United States an
element opposed to the Christian
views of this and other nations. On
the contrary, our Elders have been in-
structed not to introduce the practise
of that principle any where outside of
the gathering place of the Saints; and
they do not preach it abroad to any
extent even in theory, except on occa-
sions when it is called for, or when
they are assailed on account of it. At
such times they respond by defending
it as a doctrine of the Bible and not in-
consistent with the laws of nature. It
should also be understood that the
practice is not generally admissible
even among the Latter-day Saints. It
is strictly guarded, the intention being
to allow only those who are above re-
proach to enter into the relationship.
The practice of the doctrine is not for
extension beyond the Church, and is
even limited within its pale[-] The idea,
therefore that the plural marriage is a men-
ace to the general monogamous sys-
tem is without foundation. This fallacy
is further exhibited by the fact of the
popular antipathy with which it is re-
garded, people outside of our C[-]urch
exhibiting a dosposition the reverse of
favorable to its establishment in other
communities, making the extension of
its practice abroad impossible. Fur-
thermore, being strict believers in free-
will; you Latter-day Saints know that
no man or woman has ever been co-
erced into obligations of that kind,
much less would we desire to enforce
it upon any other class of people.
	But in all these events which are
now taking place we recognize and ac-
knowledge the hand of God. There is a
wise purpose in it all which He will
yet more fully make plain to us. One
thing is clear, the Saints are being tried
in a manner never before known
among us. The faithful rejoice and
are steadfast; the unfaithful fear and
tremble. Those who have oil in their
lamps and have kept them trimmed
and burning now have a light for their
feet and they do not stumble or fall;
those who have neither light nor oil are
in perplexity and doubt; they know
not what to do. Is not this the fulfil-
ment of the word of God and the teach-
ings of His servants? Have not the
[Column 2]
Latter-day Saints been taught all the
day long that if they would remain
faithful and endure to the end, they
must live their religion by keeping
every commandment of God? Have
they not been continually warned of
the fate which awaited them if they
committed sin? Can adulterers, for-
nicators, liars, thieves, drunkards,
Sabbath-breakers, blashpemers, or
sinners of any kind endure the
trials which Saints must pass
through and expect to stand?
If there are any who enter-
tain such a hope, they deceive them-
selves. Upon these sins God has pro-
nounced judgement. No man or woman
who is guilty of any of these trans-
gressions of God's law can stand and
retain His Spirit. They must repent
of them and put them far from them,
or they will be left in darkness, and
misery will be their doom. The Lord
will not be mocked. He will not bear
with hypocrites; but they will be
spewed out. If all who call themselves
Latter-day Saints were true and faith-
ful to their God, to His holy covenants
and laws, and were living as Saints
should, persecution would roll off
from us without disturbing us in the
least. But it is painful to know that
this is not their condition. There are
secret abominations practiced by those
who are called Saints, which the trials
we are now passing through will reveal
in a manner terrible to them. Open
sins are also winked at and condoned
by Presidents, Bishops, Teachers and
parents in a manner offensive to God
and grievous to man. Proper care and
vigilance are not exercised to keep
Wards and Stakes cleansed from in-
iquity and to have transgressors dealt
with. The innocent are thus made to
suffer with the guilty; for the Lord has
commanded that the inhabitants of
Zion must purge themselves from in-
iquity, folly, covetousness and vanity,
and listen to and obey His laws, or they
cannot have His protection. He has
also said that if His people will obey
His laws and keep His commandments,
to do them, not in name only, but in
reality, He will be their shield and pro-
tector and strong tower, and no man
will be able to hurt them, for He will
be their defense. These trials of our
faith and constancy which we are now
passing through will be overruled for
our good and future prosperity. In
days to come we shall be able to look
back and percieve with clearness how
visibly God's providence is in all that
we now witness. Let us do all in our
power to so live before the Lord that
if we are persecuted, it shall not be for
wrong doing, but for righteousness.
	At the present time we may very
pertinently inquire: Why are the peo-
ple of these mountains treated as we
now are? Where in this broad land is
the virture of women so amply guarded
or so jealously protected as here? No
cry of hungry, naked or outraged hu-
manity has ever ascended to heaven
from our borders against the men whom
the courts are now so busy in sending
to prison and treating as criminals.
There was a time in these mountains
when adultery, fornication, whoredom
and illegitimacy were almost unknown.
A woman was as safe from insult in
traversing over our streets and high-
ways as if she were under her hus-
band's or father's roof. Marriage was
encouraged, vice was repressed. Wo-
men were free to form  connections
were sanctified by marriage. But what
a change we now behold! A tide of
evil surges around us. It threatens to
overwhelm us and to reduce us to ruin.
The flood-gates of vice are opened
upon us, and not content with the rush
of this filthy stream into our cities and
settlements, those who hate us would
do more. They would invade our
dwellings; they would destroy our
families; they would loosen every
bond which has held society together;
they would array wife against husband,
child against parent, friend against
friend; they would make every man,
woman and child a spy, an informer
and a betrayer; they would sap the
foundation of faith, confidence and
honor and make every one distrust his
fellow. Satan never wrought greater
ruin in Eden than these enemies of ours
would work in our midst if we would
listen to their blandishments or be
frightened by their threats. And is all
this havoc to be wrought beaause of
our wickedness? No; ten thousand
times, NO. Let those  are so loud
in denouncing us, so active in perse-
cuting us, look around them. Are
there no people but the "Mormons' to
regenerate and purge from sin? Read
[Column 3]
the daily record of black crime which
fills the journals of the land. If the
correction of evil, the improvement of
morals, the uprooting of vice, the re-
pression of violence and crime were
the objects which animate those who
seek to destroy society in these moun-
tains, then we could say in the language
of the Savior: "Thou thyself behold-
est not the beam that is in thine own
eye. Thou hypocrite, first  cast out the
mote out of thy brother's eye."
	We speak to you, a people who have
traveled and mingled much in society
all over the world. You are not ig-
norant of the world, its ways or its
corruptions. You know, therefore,
how great is the beam that is in the
eyes of those who reprove us for the
mote they imagine they perceive in our
eye. We know that from the household
of every faithful Latter-day Saint daily
and fervent thanksgiving ascends to the
God of heaven for having shown them
how to escape from the frightful evils
under which society groans in so-called
civilized lands. Nevertheless, we will
not indulge in recrimination. We sin-
cerely mourn over the existence of the
dreadful sins which are permitted to
flourish and to spread with unblushing
front through the land. As a people
we have lifted our voices in warning
against these sins and against those
who practice them. We shall still con-
tinue to do so. If in return for all this
we are treated with violence and re-
proach, it is no more than our Lord and
Master was before us. We may rest
assured that the predictions concerning
the calamities and judgements which are
about to fall upon the wicked the un-
believing and the unrepentant will all
be fulfilled, as will every word and
promise which the Lord has spoken to
us. But while we warn others, let us
not forget ourselves, or our families.
Let us look well to our own lives and
the conduct and lives of those who be-
long to our households. If we keep
ourselves unspotted from sin. rest as-
sured the Lord will never forget or
forsake us.
	Upon Presidents of Stakes, Bishops
and otherleading officers great respon-
sibility rests. They are placed as
shepherds over the flock of Christ. If
through any neglect of theirs the flock
is injured or destroyed, the blood of
those souls will be found upon their
garments. The Melchizedek and Aaron-
ic Priesthoods confer great power and
authority upon man; they lift man
nearer to God and make him His repre-
sentative. But woe to the men who
use their Priesthood or base purposes,
and fail to use it for God's glory and
the salvation to His children. Far
better for them if they had never re-
ceived it.
	We have been commanded of the
Lord to set our households in order.
Apostles, Presidents of Stakes and
Bishops, have you done this with your
own households? Have you also seen
that the Saints have done the same?
Have you impressed upon the people
under your charge the absolute neces-
sity of purity if they desire the blessing
and protection of the Most High?
Wolves never watched with greater
cunning and more ravenous hunger a
flock of sheep and lambs than the people
of your Wards and Stakes are now be-
ing watched by those who are ready to
devour them. Are you awake to this
danger, and do you take every precau-
tion against it?
	Parents, are you full of fidelity
yourselves to every principle of god-
liness, and do you surround your sons
and daughters with every safeguard to
shield them from the arts of the vile?
Do you teach them that chastity in
both man and woman should be more
highly esteemed than life itself? Or do
you leave them in their ignorance and
inexperience to mix with any society
they may choose, at any hour that may
be convenient to them, and to be ex-
posed to the wiles of the seducer and
the corrupt? These are questions you
will all have to answer either to your
shame and condemnation or to your
joy and eternal happiness. Know this,
that God, in giving us the precious
blessings we possess, demands from
us a suitable return. By receiving
them we are placed under obligations.
If these are not discharged, condemna-
tion inevitably follows.
	We hear favorable accounts of the
action of Primary Associations, Sun-
day Schools, Young Men's and Young
Women's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations and Relief Societies. These
organizations have unlimited opportu-
nities of doing good. If those who
have them in charge are faithful in at-
[Column 4]
tending to their duties great will be
their reward. If we desire the pros-
perity of Zion, we will carefully gurad
and train our young. They come to
us pure and from the Lord. By proper
training we can make them mighty in-
struments for good. But, Superin-
tendents and Teachers of Primary As-
sociations and Sunday Schools, and
Presidents of Young Men and Young
Women's Associations and Relief So-
cieties, remember this, that God will
never bless an unvirtuous people, and
while a flood tide of corruption, de-
structive of all true morality and vir-
tue, is sweeping over the land, we
must erect barriers to stop its con-
taminating influence. You have the
young in your charge. Teach and im-
press upon them by every means in
your power how dreadful a sin is un-
chastity. they are taught to shrink
in horror from murder; but they
should be taught to shrink with ab-
horrence from the next great sin to
shedding blood, and that is unchastity.
	From the Elders who are abroad in
our own and in other lands we hear
generally favorable reports. They have
much to contend with. The world is
waxing worse and worse. Iniquity
abounds. Men's hearts are hardened
against the truth, and the nations are
fast being prepared for the judgements
which the Lord has said He will pour
out in the last days. The Elders are
required to carry the message which
God has sent to mankind to every na-
tion and to warn them, not in anger or
in scorn, but in meekness and humil-
ity, that they may flee from the wrath
to come. To them we say, Be pure in
all your thoughts, words and acts.
Keep yourselves unspotted from every
evil. Avoid all vulgarity of act and
expression. Put away all your light
speeches, and be sober men of God,
filled with the Holy Ghost and the
power of your Priesthood.
	To the Twelve Apostles and their
Counselors we say: Remember the
weight of your high calling in Christ
Jesus. You are called to be His
special witnesses in all the world, to
bear testimony that He lives and
reigns on high, to see that the Gospel
is preached to all the inhabitants of the
earth, and that the earth is prepared
bu suitable warning for the coming of
the Son of Man. How great and all-
important is your calling. It may be
said that the souls of a world are en-
trusted to you. Through your labors
and testimony, either in person or
through other chosen messengers
whose labors you direct, the inhabi-
tants of the earth will be judged. Is
there any law of God, then, which you
should neglect, is there any degree of
purity which you should not reach, is
there any sacrifice which you should
not be willing to make? Can men
with such a calling as yours be other
than holy and yet please our God?
Who among you can neglect the duties
of your high calling to devote time and
care to the world and its pursuits?
We say to you in all truth and solemni-
ty that no one of you can do this with-
out displeasing your God and endan-
gering your salvation.
	To the Saints we say that President
Woodruff, at our last accounts, was in
good health and spirits notwithstang-
ing his advanced age, and as full of
zeal and faith as ever.
	President Joseph F. Smith, our fel-
low laborer in the First Presidency,
though not with us, is actively em-
ployed in the ministry and rejoicing
greatly in the work of God. He is as
ardent, as devoted and as persever-
ing as ever. Were he here, his name,
without doubt, would appear with
ours to this epistle.
	Notwithstanding all that we are now
passing through, our hearts are filled
with joy and peace. We can truly say,
Hosannah to God in the highest. We
know that Zion will not be overthrown
o[-] be made desolate. Every promise
made concerning Zion by the Almighty
will be fulfilled. The only thing which
ever disturbs our serenity is the report
of wrong-doing by those who are called
Latter-day Saints.
	Praying that God will bless and pre-
serve you and lead you in the path of
righteousness, and that you may all
operate together in the accomplish-
ment of the purposes  of God and the
purification of His Church and the es-
tablishment of His Kingdom, we re-
main, with much love,
	Your friends and fellow-laborers in
the New and Everlasting Covenant,
		JOHN TAYLOR,
		GEORGE Q CANNON
Of the First Presidency of the Church of
	Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Salt Lake City, October 6th, 1885.


74	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,		OCTOBER 15, 1885.


"CAPTURED, BUT NOT CONQUERED."
				
INSCRIBED BY A FRIEND'S AFFECTION TO ELDER
	JOHN NICHOLSON, A PRISONER FOR CON-
	SCIENCE SAKE, OCT. 13TH, 1885.
					
"Captured, but not conquered!"
	Triumphant words of truth--
Let them blaze in golden letters
	In the eyes of age and youth!
They were words of mighty moaning,
	As they fell from lips of one
Who had borne the brunt of battle
	Till the vict'ry nigh was won.
Overwhelmed by force of numbers,
	He was carried from the field,
But the brave heart never faltered
	And the strong soul would not yield;
From his lips in tones of thunders,
	While his eyes shot living flame,
Leapt those words of heroism,
	To immortalize his name.
And there rose a shout of triumph
	From his comrades brave in arms,
As they closed their ranks of valor,
	Undismayed by war's alarms;
And they swore with solemn fervor,
	By the God of truth and right,
Ere His cause they would surreneder,
	They would perish in the fight!
Or, if crushed by weight of numbers,
	And to fettered hells consigned,
They would pray that truth might triumph,
	Until lost the pow'r of mind.
And they praised the captive hero
	Who had spurned the tyrant's rod,
Who was "captured, but not conquered,"
	By the foes of freedom's God.
O. F. WHITNEY.


THOUGHTS ON RECENT EVENTS.

	The events which have transpired during the
last few weeks, in and before the courts of this
Territory, and the affairs connected with them,
have stirred to the uttermost depths the hearts
and feelings of every true Latter-day Saint. Brave
men, who quail not at the threats of the officers
of the law, and who cower not at the feet of
judges and rulers, have stood manfully before the
bar and told in eloquent language the motives that
inspired them, and the reason for the hope that
was within them, and have endured with sublime
patience the stinging sarcasms of him whose
privilege it was to pass sentence upon them for a
faith and practice, that could elevate and sustain
them in the hour of severest trial.
	One's belief is actually called into question, and
no man allowed to sit upon the jury who acknowl-
edges himself a believer in the doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
no matter how honorable or circumspect his life
may be, he is at once rejected; yet almost in the
same breath these classical interpreters of laws


and statutes will say, “Belief is all right; it is the
practice which makes the offence.”
	What is a religion worth which consists only in
theory? What saving qualifications does it pos-
sess? Such a religion exsists only in name; it is
not, and cannot be a living, abiding faith, that is
like unto an ever flowing fountain of intelligence
in the human soul. One of the great poets, that
the world professes to admire, and true poets are
thought living oracles, says on this subject,

	“True Christianity depends on fact;
	Religion is not theory, but act."

	The illustrious example of those fearless, un-
daunted, heroic men, who have gone before the
judge for sentence, hot with boasting or pomp, but
trusting implicitly in Israel’s God, will be a lasting
honor, not only to them,but their generations after
them. Their names, and the history of their
wrongs, will be held in everlasting remembrance,
and the principles for which many are now suffer-
ing exile, bonds and imprisonment, will, through
this very ordeal, be all the more vividly impressed
upon the hearts of the youth of Zion, and more
firmly engrafted into their lives.
	Who is there who does not admire a sublime
courage, though he may not possess it? Judges
and rulers may persecute, and scoff and fling vile
epithets at the Latter-day Saints, but if they have
a spark of manhood in their breasts they cannot
help respecting the man who will stand by his
principles and maintain his conscientious convic-
tions, honoring his wives, his children, his people
and his God. There is something tangible in such
a religion as this, something that will appeal to
the hardest heart, as well as to the noblest senti-
ments of man.
	It is sad to see good men and true men cast into
prison, or banished from their homes, but God’s
ways are not as man’s ways, and He has a purpose
to accomplish, which man cannot stay, and He will
cause the wrath of man to praise Him, even as
He has said, and it is for this people to be humble,
obedient and faithful in keeping the command-
ments He has given, and He will bring them off
victorious and establish Zion in its power and
glory, and those who abide in the covenants they
have made will be able to stand when all things
that can be shaken will be shaken.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The office of the Woman's Exponent was re-
moved from the Hooper and Eldredge Block on
September 30th, and is now situated at No. 25 E.,
South Temple Street, second gate from Deseret
News Office.
	Bishop H. B. Clawson was sentenced and
went to prison on Tuesday, September 29th, and
Elder John Nicholson on the 13th of October, for
living with, and acknowledging their wives. Both
these brethren expressed  very decided views in
regard to their belief and convictions,and, like the
two Bro. Browns, of Ogden, have left on record
a testimony that will stand forever, and that all
Israel will honor them for, as well as all men and
women who are governed by principle, however
they may differ in religious views and practices.
	SISTER AURELIA S. ROGERS called to ask that
the item in relation to the first organization of
the Primary, as published in the Dialogue by Sis-
ter L. K. Young, be corrected, as the Primary at
Farmington was the first one ever organized, the
organization being effected on the 11th of August,
1878, and three meetings were held previous to
the organization in the 11th Ward of this city.
We make this correction in order that the facts
may be known, and not a false impression given.
We published the article as it was written, without
making any alterations.
	THE title of the poem inscribed to Bro. Nichol-
son, and published in this issue, were the words
emphatically used by him in speaking in
the 18th Ward Chapel, on Sunday evening, pre-
vious to his being sentenced. They were decided-
ly appropriate, and uttered with intense power; they
seemed to impress forcibly all assembled, and it
is not strange that these words should be sugges-
tive to a poet and a writer, and especially to one
so warmly interested in his welfare, and the princi-
ples involved, as young Bishop Whitney.
	Bro. C. E. JOHNSON'S "Valley Tan Remedies"
are becoming more popular as they are better
known and brought into use. The Essence of
Life we have heard highly recommended, also the
pills and troches. We are always glad to see a
spirit of enterprise among our young people
turned in the direction of home manufacture, and
it is much safer to take medicines prepared by our
own people, than to buy so many patent medicines
from abroad. We believe the Canker Syrup to be
a good preventive against diphtheria, and it
would be well if children were given this canker
medicine, or some other, occassionally, to keep it
from the system.
	SISTER SARAH STROCK of this city is
agent for the Acme Electric Belt, a new
and novel invention, which cures by elec-
tricity, containing a sort of galvanic battery.
She is introducing it throughout the several wards
of the city, and meeting with excellent success.
Those who have tried it, some of them having
suffered from a complication of causes, are well
satisfied with its beneficial effects, and if it proves
to be a relief to some of the ills that flesh is heir
to, it will be a blessing; and there is no nauseous
medicine to be taken, and the simplicity of its
arrangement is in itself a recommendation. Sister
Strock has taken hold of it with a motive to do
good, and intends to travel in the country settle-
ments. She is a faithful member of the Relief
Society, and has been for many years a teacher in
the 17th Ward of this city.
	On Monday morning Elder A. M. Musser and
James Watson, who had each been serving out a
sentence in the Penitentiary for "unlawful co-
habitation," were released from imprisonment,
their time being lessened through the advantage
of the Copper act, and allowed to go at large.
Although to breathe the pure air of heaven must
be a luxury to those so long debarred from that
blessed privilege, yet to be spied upon and not be
able to visit wives and children, who so much need
the protection of husband and father, is little less
than an affliction. On Thursday morning Parley
P. Pratt was released from imprisonment, he hav-
ing had to remain a little longer than he otherwise
would, on account of some infringement upon the
regulations of the Penitentiary.
	Mrs. Mary S. Snow, of the 11th Ward of this
city, has been east gathering up genealogical re-
cords. She left here on the 3rd of September ult.,
via the D. & R. G. Railway, and went direct to
New York; afterwards to Brooklyn, where she
has a sister residing. She has also visited differ-
ent parts of the State of Vermont, Arlington,
Bennington and other places, and up Lake Cham-
plain to St. Albans, and other points enroute, and
visited in Rhode Island, Providence and other
parts of that state. Sister Snow has enjoyed her
journey very much indeed; has everywhere been
well received, among friends, relatives and old
acquaintances, and has returned home buoyant in
spirits, and not at all fatigued bodily. She crossed
the plains coming home by the Union Pacific
Railway. Sister Snow is looking remarkably well,
and for a women over seventy has traveled a
pretty good distance in so short a time as a month
and a week, arriving at her own home in this city
on the 10th of October.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOOD TESTIMONY,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have felt so often of late that I would like to
write something to encourage my sorely tried
sisters, and as I am one with them, and one of the
weakest, I cannot hope to say anything without
the good Spirit to guide me in every word.
	It is indeed a trying time, not for one alone, but
all who are determined to serve God and resist
the wily inducements of that wicked one, who
glories in the downfall of the Saints. Some of
our dear husbands are far away in lonely prisons,
and many weary months must pass ere we clasp
their dear hands in our own again. Others are
nearer, but, like them, are deprived of liberty be-
cause they were too good and brave to turn traitors
to God and to their families. Some are hunted
from place to place as a hound chases down the
wild beast. Noble men have placed the stormy
ocean between them and their persecutors, that
they might accomplish some good, while their
families are scattered far and wide, and to such
wives it is a daily trial not to be near each other,
to comfort, console and bless each other in the
absence of their trusted guide.
	My dear sisters, if we are faithful we need not
fear for the final outcome, but it is our duty to do
all we can to smoothe the rough places and catch
all the bright gleams of sunshine as we pass along
life's stormy way. How my heart aches for every
patient, loving wife, who is thus cruelly deprived
of the society of him she holds dearer than all
others, and it is but natural that her heart should
cling to him, and that it should be lonely and
desolate where he is not. It is his voice that can
quiet her fears, his hand that can soothe her ach-
ing head, and though father, mother, sisters and
brothers are all  near, none, none can fill his place
to her; and if perchance, she is a wife that the
law fails to recognize, her claims are just the same
in the eyes of God and just men, and shame upon
those who would boast a superior position, or try
to make her feel more keenly her trying one. She
must not think for a moment that she is less be-
loved because circumstances keep her isolated,
and if those who seem more fortunate are pos-
sessed of a proper spirit they will lovingly remem-
ber the absent one, and encourage the husband to
do all he can for the happiness of all who have an
equal claim on him. But we must each remember
we have a duty to perform wherever our lot may
be cast.
	We must be humble, and seek God continually,
or we will fall by the wayside. Self-righteousness
must have no place in our hearts. We must not
forget that we are not the only one who is being
tried at the present time, and how often we increase
our weary load by complaining against those who
are doing all they can for us.
	Fault-finding does not enhance our peace of
mind, and it invariably disturbs that of those we
most desire to promote. If we wish to be loved
and trusted, then let us love and trnst in return,
and be sure that the best and truest way of pure
happiness is to suffer wrong rather than do wrong,
and we cannot prove our affection in a stronger
way than by willingly and patiently bearing for
the sake of those we claim to regard so highly.
The day seems dark, and the sky full of black
clouds, but after a while they will clear away, and
then how we will have learned to appreciate the
beautiful sun, which has so long been hid. Our
Father has not forgotten us, He witnesses our
daily sorrow, and will reward us according to our
faithfulness and perseverance and the faith we
show. We have every reason to rejoice in the
principles we have solemnly vowed to defend; and
better a thousand times that we perish in trying to
live, tha nto deny one principle and lose our soul's
salvation eternally.
	God bless and comfort all the faithful, is the
daily desire of 
				Your Sister,
							VIOLET OWENS


[Column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. [-]. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
------	
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	Minutes of the semi-annual conference of
the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake,held
at Bluff, September 21st, 1885, Prest. Jane M
Walton presiding. Present on the stand, with
the officers of the Relief Society, was Sister-
Slade of Burnham Ward, Stake Counselor
Wm. Halls, Bishop Nielson and Counselors
and Bishop Burnham from Burnham Ward.
After the usual opening exercises, the statisti-
cal and financial reports of the several branches
were read; also a letter from Sister E. R. S.
Smith was read and much appreciated.
	The brethren and sisters who spoke were
filled with the good spirit, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of Mormonism. Bro.
Wm. Halls spoke on the sphere of woman,
and felt thankful for this organization.
	Bishop Burnham exhorted us all to remem-
ber the good instructions we had received, and
felt to bless all good people.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few appropri-
ate remarks, and conference was then adjourned
Until March, 1886. Singing. Benediction by
Bishop Nielson.
		JANE M. WALTON, Stake Prest.,
		IDA E. NIELSON, SECRETARY pro tem.
------
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The twenty-sixth quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was
held in the Tabernacle in Brigham city, on
the 8th of September, commencing at 10 a.m.
After singing, prayer was offered by Coun.
Susannah P. Booth. Minutes read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said she felt thankful
that she had the privilege of being present;
thankful that so many enjoyed the same privi-
lege; encouraged the sisters to attend these
meetings. Spoke of the necessity of the secre-
taries making the reports correctly.
	The various reports were then read by the
secretary, Mary E. Snow, also the Resolutions
of Respect to our departed sister, Mary Stark,
were read by Emilia D. Madsen, and accepted
by the assembly unanimously.
	Bishop Tingey had enjoyed himself greatly
by attending the ladies’ conference; had won-
dered at so few being present. Related a cir-
cumstance in the life of the Prophet Joseph
and David Whitmer, showing how the sisters
who attend meeting will gain the blessing and
Spirit of the Lord, instead of those who ne-
glect to come. Said, "Your work and cares
will be lightened by coming together and
gathering strength.” Compared the persecution
of the present day with the Book of Mormon
—how the ancient Saints passed through severe
trials. Said, “We must be faithful, you and I.
Why should we be faithful? That the bless-
ings of God may be poured out upon us.”
Spoke of coming times, and fervently praised
the goodness of God.
	Prest. Snow wished the sisters to be punctual
in the afternoon. Announced the Primary
Fair would be open at noon. Singing, “O
give me back my Prophet dear.” Benediction
by Bishop Tirigey.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer by
Sister Harriet Hunsaker. The condensed
report was read by the secretary, Mary E.
Snow.
	Sister Hubbard,  President of the Relief
Society of Willard City, reported verbally,
and said, “We should put every good desire
into practice; many of us think we have hard
times, but as we progress we shall have all we

[column 2]
can bear. Our Heavenly Father is constantly
watching over us, hence we should try to live
so that we may always have His Spirit with
us.” Said many good things in her gentle,
peaceful way. Prayed the Lord to bless, us
all. Miss Fannie Graehl, Treasurer of the
Stake, read the account of the treasury.
	President E. A. Box: “1 have resolved that
I should spend one half day at least at this
conference. I have not attended many—not
because I consider these conferences of small
importance, but rather otherwise, and thought
that the sisters were more capable of counsel-
ing and instructing each other, being better
acquainted with the different vicissitudes each
one had to pass through. It has often been
said that these organizations are a great help
to the Priesthood, and I am well convinced
thereof. There is one thing sure and certain,
the Lord delights in His servants and in His
handmaidens who wish to learn concerning
His will. The more time we spend in meeting,
the less time we have to contend with the
other influences that surround us every day.”
Encouraged and expressed his appreciation of
the work of the sisters. “The trials that we
are passing through at the present day are
such as should cause every one to reflect—our
young men, our brethren and sisters, it is
true that this life is short, it is true that we
should look more to our spiritual affairs than
to our temporal. We may do many things
that are wrong and think it is right, through
our weakness, this we will be forgiven; but if
we persist and do willfully wrong, we will not
be forgiven.” Bro. Box spoke very lengthy
and with warm inspiration, and dwelt a great
deal on the power of a mother’s influence over
her children. Related an example of a man,
good and true, who went many miles: away
preaching the Gospel. He had a very unwise
wife; and their children are now the bitterest
enemies to the Church, and of another man
who apostatized, but his wife was firm and true,
and taught her children pure and correct
principles; her children are true and staunch
to-day.
	Bishop Jensen, from Bear River City, en-
dorsed what had beea said. “There is a great
deal of work for the mothers.” Spoke of the
signs of the times, and highly appreciated the
good accomplished by the Relief Society.
	Prest. Harriet Snow: “We want to learn to do
our duty properly; we want to understand princi-
ples;we want to work in harmony with thePriest-
hood, not to use an influence against them."
Encouraged the sisters in their good works.
	Sister Olivia Widerborg: “I earnestly ask
an interest in your faith and prayers. I feel 
to live my religion. Let us try to the end of
the journey of life to live so that we, may enter
into the presence of our Heavenly Father.”
	Sister Susannah P. Booth: "I never had
more determination to try and live my religion
than at the present time.” Spoke of the many
duties there are for us to fulfill as mothers, as
members of the Relief Society and as Latter-
day Saints. 
	Prest. E. A. Box stated that it was necessary
that Prest. Harriet Snow should have a new
counselor, and Sister Olivia Widerborg had
been selected.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Prest. of Honey-
ville Relief Society, reported verbally. Said,
“I feel an interest in living my religion; let us
pray that we may be able to keep the com-
mandments of the Lord.”
	Sister Keller, Prest. of Mantua Society, re-
ported verbally, and felt happy to be one with
the Latter-day Saints.
	Prest. H. Snow made closing remarks, and
adjourned conference for three months. Sing- 
ing. Benediction by Bishop Tingey.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN AUTUMN SONG.

The yellow leaves are changing fast,
	Sad winds among the the pine-trees sigh,
Blithe Autumn's reign is well-nigh past,
	And sombre winter draweth nigh.
Ah me, the short and dreary days, 	
The withered bloom of woodland ways,
The silent birds the sunless sky,
The tempest’s wailing voice on high!
But yet, my heart, thou hast confessed
That all God does is for the best.

Look up, then, though the leaves are shed
	And summer birds and flow’rs are gone;
These passing scenes around thee spread
	Are not to rest our hopes upon.
Though skies were bright and breezes soft
When green trees swung their arms aloft,
Why should thy thoughts be sad because
These things are changed by nature’s laws?
Be still, my heart, thou hast confessed.
That all God does is for the best.

Not as we wish, not as we will,
	But as we need Life's joys or pain,
Its toil or rest, God gives us, still
	Blessing the sunshine and the rain.
And when with tears we sometimes cry
For treasures valued once so high,
And think how hard it is to lose
The one dear gift our hearts would choose,
Oh, calm on this assurance rest,
What'er God does is for the best!

'Tis said that in the eagle’s nest
	The mother points a thorn on high,
To wound her young one’s tender breast
	And force the feeble wings to fly.
'Tis so when to some happy home
The thorns of loss or sorrow come,
When joy is changed to sharpest pain
And life seems empty, labor vain;
God weans us so from earthly rest,
And all He does is for the best.
							SUSANNAH J.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued)
	My mother's babe was a little over a month
old when father left with the pioneers. A
little black eyed, rosy cheeked girl, between
twelve and thirteen, had been given to them a
few days previous to father's leaving, whom
they adopted as their own. Her mother had
died on the journey from Nauvoo, leaving a
number of little children, that were taken by
different families. They came from England,
and the father was rather a worthless sort of
man, and seemed to care very little for child-
ren.
	The members of my mother's household
numbered fourteen, including herself. Three
of them were young men who were adopted in-
to father's family—Peter Hanson, George
Roads and Jacob Frazier, and three young
women—Harriet Sanders, father's wife,
Jenette Murray, a cousin of mine, Mary Fors-
green, Lucy and myself and five little brothers
made up her private family. Wm., her eldest,
acted as a guardian, and attended to the wants
of the families under his charge. Brothers
Daniel Davis and James Smithies were his as-
sistants, and helped to raise gardens and pro-
vided the needfuls to sustain life. The younger
boys attended to herding the cows, and they
were occasionally nearly frightened out of their
wits by Indians, who wanted to drive away
their cows. One day my little brother Charley
went out with them and had the misfortune to
lose his only hat; and had to go without for a
time, till he was so badly tanned that he was
usually called the half breed, and when asked
his name would invariably answer, "Charley
half-a-breed." He was only five years old, and
supposed that to be his real name. His hair
was very heavy and nearly black, and his skin
was fair, but after becoming so thoroughly
tanned, no one could believe him to have been
otherwise than dark.
	We had a varied and peculiar experience
from the time that we were left, till the return
of the pioneers. Things looked rather dark,
and to all appearance there was no earthly
source to which we could look. When one
meal was eaten, how the next was to be ob-
tained was something of a puzzle. But when
things looked the darkest, and want seemed
most imminent, some way or other we were
provided for, and relief came sometimes in a
way most marvelous. But to return:
	As I have previously mentioned, the scurvy
was raging in our midst, and a good many had
already died in consequence. Only a very few
potatoes could be obtained at that time of the
year, and for what we did get we had to pay a
high price. I, being among the poorly ones,
was indulged in this luxury, and which I shall
never forget, with the nice tea, which mother
had purchased of Aunt Sabra Granger, it be-
ing superior black tea, that which Col. Kane
had sent her.
	On the morning of May 6th I was delivered
of a beautiful and healthy girl baby, which
died at the birth. Thus the only bright star,
to which my doting heart had clung, was
snatched away, and, though it seemed a need-
less bereavement, and most cruel in the eyes of
all who beheld it, their sympathies were such
that, by their united faith and prayers, they
seemed to buoy me up to that degree that death
was shorn of its sting, till I could say, "Thy
will, not mine, be done." Three weeks of
suffering followed, when I was dressed one day,
but I took cold and was again prostrated, and
lay in a critical state for another three weeks,
a part of that time in a cold clammy sweat,
until everything on me was as wet as though
it had been drenched in cold water, and
death seemed determined to claim me, but I
was saved for a purpose. Before I was able
to sit up, the scurvy laid hold of me, commenc-
ing at the tips of the fingers of my left hand
with black streaks running up the nails, with
inflammation and the most intense pain, and
which increased till it had reached my shoul-
der. Poultices of scraped potato, the best
thing, it was considered, to subdue the inflamma-
tion; it would turn black as soon as applied,
and for all they were changed every few
minutes for fresh ones, it was all to no effect.
By this time I had lost all faith, and patience,
too, and, with a feeling of desperation, I arose,
and, taking the wrap and everything with it,
I threw it with such force that it went into the
fireplace on the opposite side of the room, say-
ing, "There you can stay, for I will never do
another thing for it!" and to my great surprise
I had no occasion to, as the pain and disease
had left me, and from that moment I felt no
more of it. Still there were other obstacles in
the way of my full recovery; though I was free
from pain, I remained in a feeble state for
some time, so that I had to lie down a goodly
portion of the time.
	In the early part of June a merchant, Amos
Davis, brother of Daniel Davis, and Mr. Kim-
ball, brother to the late John Kimball of Salt
Lake, arrived from Nauvoo with goods and
groceries and the best of wines, liquors, etc.
My mother rented them her dining room for a
store, and boarded them. This was an open-
ing as unlooked for as if manna had rained
down from heaven.


LIBERTY.

	Respected friends and fellow citizens, we
have met here to-day to celebrate, in honorable
remembrance, the anniversary of the day our
forefathers entered these valleys, where they


expected to worship God according to His will,
having been mobbed and driven from the
states of this great, free America that boasts
of liberty.
	Men, descendents of the founders o this
great country, who trace their lineage to the
religious fathers, who came to America for the
self-same cause, ridiculed and frowned down
upon because of their desire to perform and
make purer this great American nation, who
are becoming more and more corrupt by their
vileness, by those standing at the head of this
nation, who have trampled the Constitution
under foot.
	What is liberty? It consists of freedom
and privileges; but, do the Latter-day
Saints have these privileges? No. Why?
Because they are doing what is right, and be-
ing obedient to the holy principles which God
has handed down for us to adhere to.
	We see, on the Fourth of July, 1776, that
the "Declaration of Independence and Free-
dom" was assigned to this people, and it was
declared that we should have liberty. But, do
we enjoy these rights? No; they are crushed
and trampled under foot. See the cruel and
unjust laws got out against the Latter-day
Saints, trying to destroy all rights, trying to
put down the holy ordinances that our God
has handed down for us to obey, improving
each and every opportunity they have of im-
prisoning our beloved brothers and sisters, not
even allowing them justice, causing them to
lie in prison, and suffering the unreasonable
punishments which they have no right to do.
Still our noble-hearted brothers and sisters are
bearing these unlawful penalties with patience
and humility of heart, and ever trusting in
that benevolent Father who commanded these
holy principles to be practiced.
	But shall we falter? No; not under such
cowardly laws, which our oppressors assume
the right to inflict upon us. And I would say
to all our brothers and sisters, "Bear nobly on,
For we have the Lord on our side, and we still
look forth to that glorious light which will
bring liberty to all those who remain faithful,
and retain their integrity.
		NANCY A. NEBEKER, Primary Girl.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Notwithstanding the machinations of the
evil one, who seeks to annoy, destroy and tear
down what God has decreed shall be established,
we rejoice in our knowledge of the Gospel, and
feel to lay hold on the prophecy of old, that
Zion will be redeemed, and those who live
near to the Lord can feel the peace, joy and
satisfaction promised to all who serve Him
and acknowledge His hand in all things.
Though we may be called to pass through
deep waters of affliction, still He is near, and
that for to bless and sanctify to us our deepest
distress. To us it is a great privilege to live
and see the hand dealings of God amongst the
nations and with His people, for surely the
Lord is at work, and who can stay His hand?
not man, with all his imaginary greatness that
quickly vanisheth like a cloud of smoke, or a
puff of wind.
	Our meetings are well attended, and a good
spirit prevails. The sisters are filled with a
spirit of prayer and testimony, and the song
of praise ascends to the Most High from our
gatherings, and with one accord. How pleased
and blessed were we. We strive to help the
poor and needy, the sick and afflicted in our
weak way, as the times are hard, and as a
consequence we are far from being rich, except
in the riches of eternity; if we keep the narrow
road in that we have boundless riches.
	Our annual meeting, on the 4th of June, was
satisfactory and encouraging. We were
blessed with our Stake President, Sister Libbie


Benson, and our beloved sister, Adaline Barber,
together with our Bishop and several of the
brethren, and indeed we had a rich treat—a
feast of fat things long to be remembered.
	President and counselors desire to be remem-
bered to all the good sisters of the Relief So-
ciety, and with them I desire to mingle my
voice, and say, "God bless and comfort all the
faithful in God's kingdom."
		Yours in the covenant,
		BETSY M. BROWER, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUTHS FOB GIRLS WHO FLIRT.

	Whatever idea the young girls who practice
street flirting may entertain of their seemingly
innocent pastime, it may be set down as a cer-
tainty, that when a respectable young man
desires the acquaintance of one who may some
day become his wife, he does not go out on the
street and seek her acquaintance through a
flirtation. But, on the other hand, the flirt of
the street, no matter how innocent and fair
her intentions may be, is the last person he
would seek as his life compannion. He desires
purity, without and above suspicion. The
young lady who engages in this kind of pas-
time should bear in mind that she not only en-
dangers her reputation and leaves a stain upon
her good name, but her name is a by-word
among those with whom she flirts, to be ban-
died about in saloons, on the street corners and
in low-down, unholy places in the city, fasten-
ing on her otherwise fair name a stigma or
stain that will follow her years after she sees
her folly and attempts to mend her ways.—
Newark Advertiser.


﻿PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Primary Fair at Goshen, on
the 26th of September, which was very inter-
esting, and a credit to those who had worked
so diligently to bring their various articles of
work for examination, and also to those who
took part in the proceedings of the meeting.
The following will give the readers of this
valuable little paper an idea of the work pre-
pared:
	Baskets made of different materials, knit
and chrochet lace and work of all kinds, hair
and wool flowers,artificial strawberries,mottoes,
quilts, drawings, cushions, rugs and mats of
various styles, also cooking and the produce of
the garden and farm, and rakes, forks etc.
from our little boys.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot, Sisters May Smoot
and Grace Smith visited us. Prest. Annie K.
Smoot gave us some excellent instructions.
There were also songs, recitations, dialogues,
etc., rendered in a pleasing manner by mem-
bers of the Association.
		SARAH ROBERTS, President,
		JULIA M. JASPERSON, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	There are people who would do great acts;
but, because they wait for great opportunities,
life passes, and the acts of love are not done
at all.—F. W. Robertson.
	Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared
with our own private opinion: what a man
thinks of himself, that it is which determines,
or rather indicates, his fate.—Thoreau.
	What men want is not talent, it is purpose;
in other words, not the power to achieve, but
will to labor. I believe that labor, judiciously
and continuously applied, becomes genius.—
Lytton. 
	Were you building a monument to remain


for the ages, how majestic and substantial
would be its construction! How much more
august and solemn is life.—Rev. Dr. R. S.
Storris.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	"Mrs. Olive Wright, of Denver, Colo., is ap-
pointed State Commissioner in place of Gen.
Sickles, who served last year."
	Mme Jules Ferry, the wife of the French
Premier, is the great-great-grandchild of
Charlotte Buff, the 'Lottie' of Goethe’s
'Werther.'"
	The bust of Elizabeth Fry, which was pre-
sented to the Friends’ School at Providence,
R. I., by Mrs. Ella J. Wheeler, was unveiled
on Tuesday, Sep. 29th, with appropriate cere-
monies.”
	“At the Copenhagen University examination
there were seven lady candidates, all of whom
passed. Five of these ladies took the mathe-
matics and natural science degrees, and only
two the philological."
	Helen Jackson, four days before her death,
wrote a letter of thanks to the President for
his efforts to do justice to the Indians, and
asked him to read her book on the Indian
question, 'A Century of Dishonor."
	"The municipal authorities of Madrid have
extended the right of suffrage to women. Even
in Spain, one of the most conservative coun-
tries of Europe, the leaven of equal rights has
been silently working beneath the surface, and
now shows itself by this unmistakable sign.


Patents were issued to women inventors
during the week ending September 22nd,
1885:
     Elizabeth M. Baldwin, Sparta, Wis., Swing
Chair convertible into a Swinging Hammock.
     Caroline Boyce, New York, N. Y., Book-
Cover or Protector.
     Jane A. Clother, Cumberland, Wis., Kettle-
Drainer and Steam-Ventilator and Conductor.
     Mary J. Flynn, Cleveland, Ohio, Underwaist
for children.
     Jennie D. Gidley, New York, N. Y., Under-
garment.
     Ella Goodwin, Chicago, Ill., Washing Ma-
chine.
     Rebecca J. Jacobus, Oakland, Cal.  Absorb-
ent Cowl for the chimney of hydrocarbon
burners.
     Hattie B. Pritchard, Arnoldburg, W. Va.,
Extension Bed.


PROVIDING FOR THE LAST OF THE
				FAMILY.

	The grant of 6,000l. a year for Princess Beatrice was on
a recent night carried by 357 votes to 38. These figures
are slightly below those recorded on the last occasion, when
rather more than three years ago the Duke of Albany’s
marriage portion was adopted by 387 to 42 votes. In both
cases the grant was of course a foregone conclusion, and
few will be disposed to question the justice of dealing as
liberally with the last of the Queen’s children as with her
Royal sisters.  But the prospect foreshadowed by Mr.
Gladstone will awaken very different feelings. “In future,”
said the Premier, “the Government proposed as regarded
the members of the Royal family under the Sovereign that
the question of the provision to be made should be referred
to a Parliamentary Committee for consideration." Against
any step in this direction the most vigorous opposition
should be made. John Bull’s purse may be well lined,
but if the Queen’s grandchildren are once allowed to dip
into it, the drain will be tremendous. That the bargain
asserted to have been made between the Crown and the
country has proved an advantageous one for our Princes
and Princesses, a glance at the results will show. In addi-
tion to her Majesty's Civil list of [pounds] 385,000 per annum, the


following annuities are paid to members of the Royal
family:— 
		Prince of Wales		-	-	- 	£40,000
		Princess of Wales	 	-	 -	-	10,000
		Crown Princess of Prussia 	  -	   -      8,000
		Duke of Edinburgh   	-	 -	 -	25,000
		Princess Christian of Schleswig-Holstein 6,000
		Princess Louise (Marchioness of Lorne)   6,000
		Duke of Connaught	-	-	- 	 25,000
		Duchess of Cambridge	    -	   -	   - 	   6,000
		Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz	  -	   3,000
		Duke of Cambridge	- 	 -	-	 12,000
		Duchess of Teck	-	- 	-  	- 	   5,000
		Duchess of Albany	 -	  -	  -	  -	   6,000
	With the annuity of £6,000 now voted to Princess
Beatrice, the total of these grants reaches £l58,000; and
here Parliament and the people may well decide to cry,
"Hold, enough!” Let the new constituencies see that
candidates are pledged to vote against any more Royal
grants.


HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.

	Cheese Biscuit.—Two ounces of butter, two ounces of
grated cheese, two ounces of flour, a little cayenne pepper,
and salt. The paste should be rolled out very thin, then
cut into pieces four inches long and one inch broad, baked
to a very light brown, and sent to the table as hot as
possible.

	Sweet Pickles.—Prepare the fruit as for preserving, tak-
ing out the stones. For seven pounds of fruit use half
that weight of clear brown sugar, a pint of vinegar, and an
ounce each of cinnamon stick, blades of mace, and whole
cloves. Boil the vinegar, sugar and spices, and pour this
liquid over the fruit. Allow it to stand for forty-eight
hours. Pour off the vinegar and place it over the fire again.
When hot, put in the fruit, and boil all together until it is
clear and transparent.

	Tomato Chow-Chow.—Chop up half a bushel of green
tomatoes, a dozen onions, and half a dozen green peppers.
Sprinkle on a pint of salt, and let them stand twelve hours
before draining. Cover the fruit with vinegar, and boil it
slowly for one hour. Drain off the vinegar and pack the
pickles in jars. Then take two pounds of sugar, two table-
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of cloves, one
of pepper, half a cupful of mustard, one pint of grated
horse radish, and vinegar enough to mix them. When
boiling hot, pour the liquid into the jars, cover them tightly
and you will have pickles that will last as long as you
wish.
	According to an exchange, dry powdered salt will keep
moths out of carpets. The salt should be sprinkled freely
over the carpet, particularly along the edges, followed by a
thorough sweeping. This should be done about once a
month in moth time, and there will be no trouble from the
destructive insect.	
	To take grass stains and wheel grease stains from colored
as well as white materials, rub a little clean lard on the
spots, and let it remain over night. In the morning, wash
the spots with cold water and common soap, rinse well and
dry them quickly, and press the garments with a hot iron.
If the color is likely to change by using soap, then use
naphtha or alcohol instead, and water.


IN MEMORIAM.

	"Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
		A shadow on those features fair and thin.
	And softly, from that hushed and darkened room,
		Two angels issued where but one went in.”

	DIED, suddenly, of heart disease, at 23 minutes to nine,
on the morning of October 2nd, Miss Cornelia Pearl Cook,
at the residence of her mother in this city. Deceased was
born June 5th, 1843, at La Fayette, Onondaga County,
New York, and was the second daughter of Dr. Wm. J.
and Sophia Cook.
	Miss Cornelia, as she was generally called, was the sister
of Miss Mary E. and Miss Ida I. Cook, well known in Utah
in the capacity of teachers, who have obtained marked
celebrity in the profession. 								
	Miss Cornelia came to Utah in 1876, and was for some
time afterward a resident in the Lion House, where her
sister, Miss Mary Cook, was located. The family of
Brigham Young was very much attached to her, and indeed
she possessed those lovely, endearing qualities of heart and
manner that would draw out the tender sentiments of af-


fection from those with whom she mingled, and she always
seemed to take great delight in visiting there and in refer-
ing to the time when President Young was alive, as a period
when she had fully enjoyed the society into which she was
providentially thrown. She was one of those delicate,
sensitive creatures that required the bright sunshine of
life, and the care and attention of loving friends and com-
panions—an invalid from childhood, watched over with the
most tender solicitude of parents and sisters, yet ever
patient and cheerful, though suffering severe bodily pain,
and always thoughtful of the feelings and rights of others.
She was a beautiful character to study, always gentle, pas-
sive and pleasing, when suffering agonizing pain. Miss
Cornelia loved to do good to others, and though all her
life she carried a burden of sorrow and pain, she was more
appreciative and grateful than many whose paths are strewn
with roses. She was a devoted and faithful daughter, and,
during the last three weeks of her life watched and tended,
night and day, her afflicted mother, who was lying very
dangerously ill. All her thoughts had been for her mother,
totally forgetful of self, until she sunk down exhausted, and
departed to that "beautiful land of rest,” where the weary
cease from suffering, and where all is joy and peace.
	May He who watches over all, and who knows the needs
of all hearts comfort the stricken mother, the loving sisters
and the dear children who mourn for their affectionate
"Aunt Cornelia." 
	The funeral services were conducted at the residence, on
Sunday morning, Oct. 4th, at 10 a.m. Singing by the
quartette, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, Miss Louie Wells,
J. D. Spencer and H.G. Whitney. The first hymn “Rest.”
Prayer by Apostle H. J. Grant. Singing, "Unveil thy
bosom faithful tomb." Appropriate and consoling remark
were made by Bishop Whitney, after which the touching,
exquisite hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee," was sweetly
rendered, and Presiding Bishop, Wm. B. Preston, offered
the closing prayer.	
	Choice and fragrant flowers were artistically arranged
upon her coffin—the tribute of loving friends. She looked
serenely beautiful as she lay at rest in her last sleep, a sweet
smile overspreading her lovely, angelic features. 
	E.B.W

	We the officers and members of the Eighth Ward Y.
L. M. T. A. do tender these Resolutions of Respect to
the memory of Sister Sarah Helen Stringfellow Morris, who
departed this life September 28th, 1885, aged twenty
years, nine months and ten days, after a short illness of the
fatal disease.  Diphtheria—the fourth and only remaining
child within a week, leaving the parents prostrate with
grief. She was loved and respected by all her associates,
and a faithful member of our Association.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst our dear sister.
	Resolved, therefore, That we tender our deepest sym-
pathies to the family and friends of our departed sister,
praying that the comforting influence of our Heavenly
Father may rest upon them and fill their hearts with peace,
that they may bow in humble submission to His will, feel-
ing that He doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also, that a copy be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication, and a copy be inserted in our
paper, entitled Progress, and recorded on the minutes.
	S. A. HAWKINS,
	LUCY CHAMBERLAIN, Committee.
	LUCY OAKEY
	M. P. YOUNG, President.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				OBITUARIES.

	DIED in Malad City, September 5th, 1885, Rachel Ann
Thomas, beloved wife of Benjamin L. Thomas, and
daughter of Richard and Mary E. Jones of South Wales,
England. Deceased was born in Brigham City, May 30th,
1855, and was thirty years, three months and five days old.
She leaves a devoted husband and two sons, one seven
years, and the other four hours old, with her parents and a
large circle of friends and relatives to mourn her loss.
Quiet and unassuming, she was beloved by all who were
acquainted with her. She had been through the Temple of
the Lord, and had done work for the dead, and now free
from sorrow and pain, has gone to meet with those that
will welcome her for the good work she has done for
them.
	She was a faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A., always
on hand when wanted, either in work or means. Was also
First Counselor to the Primary Association; and although

[Column 2]
we miss her company among us, we know it is her gain.
May her virtues be emulated by those of the Associa-
tion she has left behind. We sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and we pray God our Eternal Father to
comfort their hearts and dry their tears.

	Rest, in sweet and peaceful slumber,
		Till the trump of God shall sound,
	Till the earth, with joyous echoes,
		Waking millions all around.  

	Then arise with joy to meet Him,
		Crowned as queen among the guests.
	Having on the wedding garment,
		Entering into promised rest.

	Though thy labors here were shortened, 
		And thou wert called from us away,
	Thou art laboring with the faithful,
		With those that trod the narrow way.

	And we shall again behold thee,
		Blooming with immortal life—
	Farewell sister, mother dearest,	
		Noble, loving, faithful wife.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Having, through the providences of God, been called
to part with Sister Rachel Ann Tnomas,
	We, the officers and members of the Y. L. M. I. A., do
sympathize with Bro. Benjamin L. Thomas and family in
their loss.
	Resolved, That in all the sorrows and bereavements of
life, in parting with our dear sister, that we strive to follow
her noble example, and fill our mission here, that we may
be worthy to meet her when we are called to pass away.
	Resolved, That we place these Resolutions of Respect
on our record, and send a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication.					ANNE SAWYER.

	It is our mournful duty to record the demise of our be-
loved sister, Mary Stark, daughter of Andrew and Inger
Mineer. She was born on the 8th of December, 1838, in
Landskrona, Sweden; was married to Paul Stark 1859.
Embraced the Gospel the same year. Emigrated to
America 1860; arrived in Utah 1861, and finally settled in
Brigham City, Box Elder Co., 1866.
	She was a loving wife and mother, a faithful, zealous
Latter-day Saint. She obeyed and practiced the law of
the new and everlasting covenant, and leaves a record of
energy and unselfish devotion to her religion and family
that will ever be held in loving remembrance by all who
knew her. She was the mother of twelve children, of
whom five have gone before her.
	She was a woman possessed with rare abilites of practi-
cal usefulness and perseverance in well doing. She began
her public career in the year 1877, as a teacher of the
Relief Society, which office she held until the reorganiza-
tion of said society—the 13th of March, 1878—when she
was called and set apart as President for the Relief Society
of the Third Ward of Brigham City; also on the same day
as Second Counselor to the Stake President, Harriet Snow.
	She was appointed President of the Silk Association, in
which, by precept and example, she took an active part.
The following year she was called to act as President of the
Scandinavian Relief Socity. 
	All these positions she filled with honor and integrity, 
and in the whole of her long and useful career—from the
time she embraced the Gospel till the day of her death—
she was ever found, in word and deed, a faithful and a
wise counselor. She was truly one of the leading spirits
in the hive of Deseret, and will be greatly missed by her
husband, children, and all with whom she was associated.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the sisters of Box Elder Stake,
do acknowledge the hand of God in the death of our be-
loved sister, and feel that we have lost in her a wise coun-
selor, an energetic leader and a true friend, whose comfort-
ing words and cheerful spirit have often brought consolation
in the hour of trial and sorrow to those who now mourn
her loss. 
	Resolved, That we, in behalf of the different Associa-
tions, desire to pay this tribute of respect to our departed
sister, and tender our deep felt sympathy to the bereaved
family, and pray that our Heavenly Father, who doeth all
things well, may comfort and bless them with strength to
walk in the footsteps of their departed dear one, and that
that spirit, that brings peace and consolation, may always
be with them in the hour of sorrow.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be read in our stake
conference, and in the ward where she presided, and also

[Column 3]
that a copy thereof be presented to the family, and sent to
the EXPONENT for publication.
			HARRIET A. SNOW, Prest. of Stake,
			SUSANNAH P. BOOTH, First Coun.,
			OLIVER	WIDERBORG, Second Coun.,
			EMILIA	D. MADSEN,	Cor. Secretary.


Prof. A. Andre has issued a small pamphlet
containing the titles of his musical compositions,
also testimonials of his ability as a teacher of
music and languages, and some of his essays, and
a story in English. The story is entitled “Celes-
tine,” and all the articles are well written.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses' and In-
ant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer, Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL 14. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1885. No. 11.


WHAT WOMAN’S LOVE CAN DO.

	Edward the First, King of England, was dangerously
wounded in the "Holy war" by a poisoned arrow. Queen
Eleanor, his wife, without regard to her own danger,
sucked the poison from the wound. This good action made
her greatly beloved, and when she died grand crosses were
erected in remembrance of her wherever the hearse, that
carried her remains, stopped to refresh the attendants.
Only one remains, and it is in a ruinons condition.
	I sing of love, exalted and supreme,
	The love of woman and a regnant queen;
	Elena, loving wife of Edward, one
	Their kingdom England, and their royal home.
	Well may such love as hers call from above
	A smile from HIM, whose attribute is love!
	Such love will surely ope the door of heaven,
	And for its guerdon frailties be forgiven.
	His wife was near when he to battle went,
	Watching with heart and eye the grand event,
	When lo! her loved one to her tent was borne—
	By poisoned arrow had his flesh been torn!
	A "Leech” declares there must some one be found,
	One who will suck the poison from the wound;
	The royal life was ebbing fast away—
	Oh, awful cloud o’er that eventful day!
	But who will cast their life on such a dye?
	A very angel, listening, hovers nigh;
	"Teach my unpracticed lips how to proceed,
	And I, in God and love, will do the deed!”
	"Edward, my husband, God a strength will give,
	My loving soul, that England’s king may live."
	His arm enfolds her, and a deadly groan
	Tells his deep anguish in the words, "My own!”
	The deadly gash she clasps with her sweet lips,
	From out the wound the rancorous poison strips;
	"He lives! he lives! Edward, my king, will live,
	Thro' God’s blest aid his life restored, I give!"
	Words are all vain, and language spoils to tell
	Such act angelic—but ’twill ever dwell
	In England’s archives; yes, that noble queen
	Still lives on history's page with holy sheen.	
	And when this queen had passed her life’s last day,
	Where the hearse staid, that bore her form away,
	A cross was raised, to tell the sacred dust
	Had for one night been held in holy trust. 
	Centuries are fled, long years have come and gone,
	Yet still one cross remains in mouldering stone,
	And all who pass still gaze with tear and sigh;
	Remembering her, whose love can never die.
	Immortal are such deeds, they know no death,
	They are of heaven, fed by heaven’s breath;
	Illumin’d missal of th’ historic page,
	That keeps the volume bright from age to age.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 13, 1885.


[Column 1]
			HUMILITY.

	"Humility is eldest born of virtue,
	And claims the birth at the throne of heaven."

	What! claims its birth at the throne of hea-
ven! And dare we do otherwise than to
humble ourselves before our Creator? Alas! I
am afraid that the hearts of many of us are
far, far from being meek and humble. Wealth
and position cause many of the weaker mind-
ed of our sex to forget the example Jesus has
set before us, or the commandments that He
has caused to be written out for us to follow
after. In the language of the Bible, “Every
one that is proud in heart is an abomination to
the Lord. Though hand join in hand he shall
not be unpunished.”  Again, “Better is littl

[Column 2]
with righteousness than great revenues without
right.”	
	Then dare we assume haughtiness and false
pride when we have such an assurance that it
incurs the displeasure of our Father in heaven?
Quoting from Matthew, 18th chapter, “At the
same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying:
Who is the greater in the kingdom of heaven?
And Jesus called a little child unto Him, and
set him in the midst of them, and said: Verily
I say unto you, except ye be converted and be-
come as little children, ye shall not enter into
the kingdom of heaven.”
	Then how important it is that we do as He
bids, and humble ourselves even as unto a lit-
tle child. Yes, it is actually necessary for us
to cultivate humility of character, in order
that we may be ever pure and holy. If wo
will do this, it will not only please our Father
in heaven, but we will appear much more re-
fined, cultivated and original.
	"Please know, humility of heart
	Does to our sex new charm impart.”
	Who of us had not rather meet with a person
with a pure, sweet, humble spirit, than one of
those cold, haughty natures, that seem to be
always saying, “Don’t touch or come near, I
am better than you!”  Such a one may dress
and flaunt, but they never seem beautiful.  A
good, magnanimous disposition is worth far
more than haughtiness brought on from conceit
of one’s own worth. We cannot be wafted to
heaven in chariots of gold, but instead, must
lie down in our grave with a meek, prayerful
spirit, or we will not be accounted worthy to
enter the courts of heaven.
	In these critical times how necessary it is
that we, as women of Zion, as mothers and
wives of men holding the holy Priesthood,
should lay aside our worldliness and love of
wealth and display and set the example of hu-
mility before our children, that we may not be
the cause of their going astray.
	Walking along the streets in the city, the
prophecies spoken of in Isaiah, 3rd chapter,
are most forcibly brought to mind—the fulfil-
ment of them concerning the women of Zion
in the last days are plainly to be seen. Even
little children will make such a display of
themselves that it grieves one’s heart to be-
hold. The question will arise, What are their
mothers thinking of? Children apparently
ten or fifteen years older than what they really
are. All too early they have learned to love
display of dress, and carry themselves with a
haughtiness not becoming to them. Who has
taught them this? Does this please our Hea-
venly Father? We know it does not. Then
let us beware and take heed, lest we be tread-
ing on miry grounds and sink deep ere we find
out our mistake.
	Sisters, the most beautiful jewels a women
can adorn herself with are humility, virtue,
modesty and intelligence. They contain no
dross, but are the real genuine metal. Adorned
with these, the most homely face will reflect
forth the soul within, until it appears really
beautiful.	 IDA.


[column 1]
	A FEW EVENING REFLECTIONS.

	The wicked have brought sore trials upon
us, but woe! woe! to them by whom they come.
While we, a few of God’s chosen ones, are
striving to obey God’s divine laws, and keep
His commandments, the sinners in Zion delight

[column 2]
﻿in persecuting, robbing and heaping, all man-
ner of iniquity upon God’s chosen ones. But,
“blessed are ye when men shall revile you,
persecute you, and say all manner of evil
against you, falsely, for my sake, for great is
your reward in heaven.”
	Many of us are struggling with poverty and
trials of various kinds, but this should not pre-
vent us from seeking eternal riches. We should
seek to obtain the most favorable position for
perfecting and elevating our lives and charac-
ters. As Saints of the most high God, this is a
duty we owe to ourselves, to society and to our
God, through whom we derive our being. We
should endeavor to become intelligent beings,
growing in grace, and in the knowledge of the
truth of the divine Gospel. The most illiterate
may be elevated, sanctified and ennobled by
the Spirit and the divine word of God. If
the love of Christ dwells in our hearts, we will
not be content to keep a low level, and will not
associate with those who will have no influence
to increase our aspirations after knowledge or
holiness. May we not unite with the ungodly.
The wicked are wholly absorbed in the things
of this life; they forget the claims of their
Maker, and think only of self-gratification.
The pure in heart will not pursue such a course,
but will set an example, and influence to win
the ungodly from selfish aims and sensual in-
dulgence, to higher motives and purer joys.
We are living in a most solemn period of
earth’s history; the divine judgments are again
to be poured out upon the world; the prophet
declares that God’s people are not in darkness,
and the day of wrath shall not overtake them
as a thief.
	We should be Saints of most serious thoughts
and earnest prayers. The pure and undefiled
religion of Jesus Christ satisfies the cravings
of the mind, ennobles the aspirations and puri-
fies the heart. When the love of Christ is
formed within, the hope of glory and the true
joyous life of the soul begins. Those who feed
upon the bread of life will become strong and
vigorous to labor for God’s kingdom and for
their fellow men. God’s word declares that
our Savior is soon to come in the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory; we are ad-
monished to watch and pray for His appearing.
The ministers of the various sects are teaching
that the reckoning day of God will not come
for thousands of years, and while the world is
wrapped in darkness and wilful unbelief, the
night of gloom is fast approaching.
	Let us, who are of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, be sober and upon
the watch tower. By the intensity of our faith
and the purity of our love, let us show we be-
lieve in God the Father and His Son Jesus
Christ, who is soon to act as Judge, our King
and law-giver. When He comes He will re-
ward us according to our works; to those who
have been faithful it will be said, “Well done,
good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of
thy Lord.”
						M. HOLDEN.
	Parley’s Park.


" 'Brattleboro' in Verse and Prose," a volume
compiled by Mr. Cecil Hampden Howard, of
'the Astor Library,' New York, will be issued
early in November from the publishing rooms
of Frank E. Housh, of Brattleboro'. It will
contain selections from Mrs. Helen Jackson,
Fanny Fern, Wallace Bruce, General J. W.
Phelps, Colonel T. W. Higginson and others."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)
	When the pioneers were twenty-five miles
from the Elk Horn, they met some traders
with wagons and pack mules, loaded with furs,
on their way to the settlements, and Ellis
Evans, who complained of ill health, returned
with them, bringing some letters. One from
father, dated Sunday, April 18th, stated that
he, like the majority, was suffering from severe
cold, and was worn out, having found no
chance to rest, as yet, but they had no thought
but to go ahead in the name of the Lord God
of Israel.
	The following interesting extracts are from
a letter written by a sister of Brigham Young,
whom my mother’s widowed father,Roswell G.
Murray, married in the State of New York,
previous to their hearing of “Mormonism.”
She was a dear friend of my uncle, Gould
Murray, and wife, who were then living in
Rochester, and had corresponded with them
ever since she left them to go to Kirtland. This
letter or copy was dated at Omaha, Winter
Quarters, July 5th, 1847:

“DEAR GOULD AND LAURA:
	After so long a time, I take up my pen to
address you, which I should do with much
more pleasure could I feel an assurance that
my communication would ever reach you.
However this may be, I feel that I must write,
and trust an over-ruling power to convey it to
you.
	I know you must be anxious to learn some-
thing about your brother and sister and their
families; this information I intend to give, as
the overwhelming cares of life seem to prevent
them from writing themselves.
	Wm. Murray and Vilate, with their families,
are all alive and well, as far as I know. Wm.
started for Missouri two weeks ago, taking his
wife and daughter and little son with him. He
expects to stay through the summer and fall,
in order to get something together for the
journey to the mountains the ensuing spring.
They have had dreadful sickness in their
family since they left that part of the country
—every one of them have been at the very
gates of the grave, but the Lord has delivered
them from death, and they live to praise Him.
I saw Wm. at a meeting the day before he
started; his soul was like a watered garden; he
rejoiced in the God of his salvation, and praised
the Lord that he was counted worthy to suffer
affliction for His name’s sake, realizing, if he
suffered with Him, he should reign with Him.
*	*	* 	His eldest daughter, Jennette,
lives with Vilate and calls her mother, as she
may with great propriety, and enjoys the love
of God in her soul from day to day; indeed,
their house is a perfect Bethel. (If ever a
woman was blessed it is Vilate; the Spirit of
the Lord seems to be poured out upon her
without measure, and her tongue is like the pen
of a ready writer, while she pours out her soul
in blessings on her household and her neighbors.)
Oh! that you could both be here for one week,
you would know, indeed, the reality of what I
write.
	Helen was married to a young man by the
name of Whitney, one year ago last February.
*	*	Mr. Whitney went with the pioneers,
and left Helen with her mother. He was dis-
tressed to go and leave her just as her hour of
trial was coming on, but duty called and he
must go. When her time of trouble came, she
was very sick, but very patient. It seemed as
though the Lord was teaching her a great lesson.
She at length gave birth to a beautiful little
daughter, but mother and child could not both
live, and she was destined to yield up to death

[Column 2]
the dear little object on which she had doted
with her whole heart. You know how natural
it is for our hearts to cleave to earthly objects,
and how easy it is with the Lord to blast every
ray of comfort, that we may seek our all in
Him. Helen’s affection is indeed a savor of
life unto her. She sunk into the will of God
with all her heart, and her soul was so filled
with the joy of heaven that she enjoys rather
than suffers her bereavement. How I should
love you to see her and all the family.
	(Vilate is now nursing her seventh son,
Solomon.		*	*	She never enjoyed
life before as she does now; she is often filled
with the spirit of prophecy in such a manner
as shows the power and mercy of the Great
God, and astonishes those that have known her
in former years. She is not the poor, despond-
ing Vilate, that scarcely dared hope for salva-
tion. no, no! but she is that being on whom the
candle of the Lord shines continually.)  Jennette
is a great comfort to her as a housekeeper.
They are all striving with one consent to make
the port of endless rest.
	Brigham and Heber, with nearly two hun-
dred of chosen men, left this place on the 14th
of April for the Rocky Mountains. We heard
from them by way of the fur company, when
they were fifty miles from this place, since
which, we have heard nothing, nor do we ex-
pect to until we see them, and that may be a
long time, or it may be this fall. They will
probably go till they find a place where we
can rest for a little season.
	About the 10th of June a company began to
collect at a place called the Elk Horn, about
twenty miles from here.	*	*	By
the 20th there were five hundred and seventy-
three wagons ready to start; but having some
business to come back for, two men and two
women started, but had not traveled many
miles when they were beset by three Indians,
who intended robbing them. They were un-
armed, and the Indians had rifles; one of the
men had lingered behind, which left the other
alone, but he did not choose to give up his
horses, and struggled manfully with two In-
dians, while the one that stood looking on drew
up his rifle and shot him. They were so
frightened at what they had done, that they
fled into the woods. The young man, whose
name was Jacob Wetherbee, died the next
morning.
	This was the 20th, and the next day the
company moved on. The wagons went four
abreast, and some that were there declared it
the grandest sight their eyes were ever blessed
with. Their wagons were all neatly prepared,
and everything for their comfort that could be
obtained, but yet they will suffer enough.

	We are here on the banks of the Missouri
River.  	*	The Omahas are the most de-
graded and worthless race of beings that ever
my eyes beheld, but the Lord can bring them
up, for it is easy with Him to do whatsoever
seemeth Him good.
	We do not suffer anything from fear of the
Indians, for we know that for their sakes we
are suffering all these things, and we are sure
that the Lord our God will not suffer them to
destroy us. There has been great destruction
of life, both with man and beast, since we left
Nauvoo, but none of these things move us
while we are keeping the commandments of
our Lord and Master, for we know that whether
we live or die we are His. If this was to be
our home for a few years, it would soon be-
come a delightsome place; but we may not
abide here; we must seek rest in a far distant
land. Some of the Missourians are constantly
using their influence with the Indians to have
them kill the “Mormons,” but we trust in the
Lord they will prevail. The brethren that
remain here have planted seeds of all kinds,
and certain it is that the blessing of heaven

[Column 3]
attends the labors of their hands. It is indeed
cheering to every heart to see every kind of
vegetation growing as though they were upon
a race to see which would out-do.
	There has been but two steamboats here this
season; this makes the river appear rather
lonely, except when the fur boats are scudding
down; seven were seen at once, yesterday; we
hailed them with joy—I mean with our eyes,
for it looks so lonely to see no raft upon the
water.	*	Our people have an excellent
grist mill here, which may cost some thousands
of dollars. It does a first rate business.
	I should like to tell you how many hundred
houses we have built, but have not lately ascer-
tained. In March there were about eight
hundred, and many have been built since.
Some are very good log houses, and others
about the medium, and many poor indeed, but
better than none. The land is far from being
level here, but the hills are really beautiful—
far more so, to me, than level land could be.
	If you could sail up the river and take a
peep at our town, you would say it was roman-
tic and even grand, notwithstanding the log
huts. The season has been thought rather
backward, but at present is very fine.	*	*
	I had a hard fit of sickness last fall, after I
wrote you from Farmington. I did not reach
the camp until the latter part of November,
and have seen pretty strait times through the
winter, as hundreds of others have, but have
got along with it all, and am very comfortably
provided for. I am satisfied, though I am
alone in the world, and all I ask of it is to get
comfortably through it; I am not disposed to
hurry out by any by path but I wait the
leisure of my Lord. I believe my sun will
set in peace. I do not love the world, nor the
things of the world, and am sorry that so many
of our people have such a hankering after the
vanities of life. There are all sorts of beings
among us, and I know not how long it must be
so.	*	*	We commit all things to
Him whose right it is to reign, and we know
assuredly that everything will work together
for the good of those that love and put their
trust in Him.
	My health is tolerably good while I take
care of myself; my work is nearly done in this
campaign; I must live easy, or I cannot live at
all.	*	  If this should ever reach you, I
beg that you will not defer writing.
	Now wishing you to be wholly the Lord’s in
this world and in that world which is to come,
I bid you farewell.”
						FANNY MURRAY.


LEGEND OF THE BEAUTIFUL HAND.

	There was a dispute among three ladies as
to which had the most beautiful hand. One
sat by a stream and dipped her hand into the
stream and held it up; another plucked straw-
berries until the ends of her fingers were pink;
and another gathered voilets until her hands
were fragrant. An old, haggard woman pass-
ing by asked, “Who will give me a gift, for I
am poor?" All three denied her; but another
who sat near, unwashed in the stream, un-
stained with fruit, unadorned with flowers,
gave her a little gift and satisfied the poor
woman. And then she asked them what was
the dispute, and they told her, and lifted up
their beautiful hands. “Beautiful, indeed,”
said she when she saw them. But when they
asked her which was the most beautiful, she
said, “It is not the hand that is washed clean
in the brook, it is not the hand that is tipped
with red, it is not the hand that is garlanded
with flowers, but the hand that gives to the
poor is the most beautiful,” As she said these
words, her wrinkles fled, her staff was thrown
away, and she stood before them an angel from
heaven with authority to decide the question
in dispute. And that decision has stood the
test of all time.—Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO PATRIARCH L. D. YOUNG,
	  	OCTOBER 19, 1885.

Another year has passed! again we find you,
	Still patiently content to watch and wait,
And relatives and friends come to remind you
	The day returns, and you are seventy-eight.

Aged and young and infants pass before you,
	Into the beautiful, the blest abode;
While your dear angels lovingly watch o'er you,
	And gently lead you on in life's rough road.

How many cherished ones are fondly waiting,
	To welcome you with joyous, rapturous bliss,
In that dear home which you, anticipating,
	Are almost wedded to e’en more than this.

How many faithful ones on earth will mourn you,
	When thro' the small, dark vale that lies between,
Kind angel messengers have softly borne you,
	Into the purer life, the fairer scene.

So shall it be, for kindness winneth ever
	Such love and friendship as are felt for you;
Whether in life or death, your heart will never
	Fail to receive its measure, full and true.

			Affectionately,
									LULA.


A PASTORAL.

The summer sun beat fiercely down,
	And, as I toiled beneath its rays,
A shade of sadness stole around,
	And weary seemed life's busy ways;
And, then, while sterner thoughts uprose
	Against life burdens that we bear,
A far off voice the silence broke,
	A song came on the sultry air.

Still toiling on, I listened, too,
	Forgetting sorrow in the spell
The singer wrought, for health and joy
	Its every cadence seemed to tell;
Listened, while down the hidden road,
	The unknown singer nearer drew,
And raised my eyes anon to see,
	When he, at last, should come to view.

Around the turn of road he came,
	And in full sight across the way,
With broad brimmed hat and blue checked sleeves,
	He sang upon his load of hay;
Something about his heart and her,
	Were all the words that I could hear,
But 'twas enough, his voice revealed,
	Unconsciously, a joy sincere.

As cheerfully and leisurely
	His willing span went down the road,
As though they, too, enjoyed the song,
	My spirit missed its weary load,
And I was wond’ring to myself.
	What was the secret in his heart—
So full, so sweet, so plentiful,
	That even others shared a part.

His heart and her! had he just won
	To his true heart the sweetest, best?
Or was it that within their home.
	Had come a wee dear little guest?
I wondered this and fancied that,
	Yet never could I truly say
What made me blest through joy of his,
	Who sang upon his load of hay.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Oct. 2nd, 1885.


[Column 1]﻿
		CHESTNUT TIME.

	The frosty October and early November
days remind me of the nutting season in dear
old New England. Oh, the fun and frolic of
rambling off into the woods, away through the
hilly pastures, with a jolly crowd of boys and
girls, baskets in hand, and supplied with a
lunch for the day, all bent on having a gay
time and coming home well laden with nuts, to
help while away the winter evenings. Can I
ever forget the merry peals of joyous laughter
which echoed and re-echoed among the hills,or

[Column 2]
the sighing and moaning of the tall pines that
seemed to rebuke our merriment and temper it
with sentimental thoughts. But the boys,
those dreadful, mischievous, rollicking boys,
never seemed to listen, or heed the voices in the
trees, but teased the girls unmercifully, and
refusing to shake the trees for nuts, unless they
would consent to being kissed, which, of course,
the girls wouldn’t do for anything, and so they
would chase them here and there until they
could corner them, when submitting graceful-
ly was the wisest course to pursue; and besides,
how could we go home with empty baskets?
and the boys were obstinate. And even when
the boys would climb the great handsome trees
and shake down the heavy, sharp, prickly
burrs, we were even more frightened at them
than before, for if you ran under the trees to
pick them up, they would shake away with all
their might, and the great chestnut burrs
would fall on you until, you would feel as if
you were just covered with sharp prickles.
Many innocent little flirtations have been
carried on under the chestnut boughs, that
served for pastime then but left an aching
void in the impressionable heart of one partici-
pant, which perhaps the other party concerned
in the affair never even dreamed of.
	Sometimes, however, it has happened that
the attachment of a life-time has begun in the
woods, when the children were out nutting.
Romantic little incidents of this kind in the
youthful experience of boys and girls often
glow with tender passages, that are forever
stamped on the human heart, and when one
sits musing on an autumn day, and hears the
wind whistling and the dry leaves flying hither
and thither, and circling into great round piles,
here and there, and making a perfect carpet
of matting under one’s feet, it is sure to bring
back some of the little episodes in one’s past
life that have left their impression upon the
tablets of memory, forming a perfect picture.
	Imagine a cold, crisp November day, and
a thickly clustered wood of tall chestnut trees,
the branches loaded with great rough burrs,
and a merry group of boys and girls, with
bright sparkling eyes, and rosy cheeks and
lips; chatting and laughing as they toss and
turn the fallen leaves hunting for chestnuts,
while the brave-hearted and fun-loving
boys climbed the trees and sent down showers
of great rough burrs all over and around the
girls below. All in good humor, and radiant
with delight, they are filling their baskets with
the nuts, and casting sly glances and carrying
on little flirtations meanwhile.
	As the day advances, almost unwittingly,the
boys and girls divide up into groups of two or
three, and the loud talking and general con-
versation gradually softening into lower tones,
until the falling of a chestnut burr, now and
then, as the branches sway hither and yon
in the autumn wind, makes one start
and turn, because of the quiet that has settled
down upon the happy, childish party.
	Finally a clear, cheery voice calls out that
the sun is near setting and it is time to go,and,
reluctantly,the little crowd gather up their well
filled baskets and turn their faces homeward.
	The boys, edging up towards the girls, take
their baskets and help them, so kindly, over
the rough places, and lift them down from the
rail fences they have to climb, that divide the
pastures on their way. At length, tired, and
their fingers smarting with pain from the burrs
they have handled, they reach the lane that
leads to the village; and now they begin to
think of separating, and the good nights are
being said as the sun in resplendent magnifi-
cence casts a halo of light over the carelessly
arranged group, as they stand with faces West-
ward, gazing away into the distance, instead
of into each other’s eyes. What a pretty
tableaux they make in the light of the setting
sun, their faces radiant with hope and joy, the

[Column 3]
careless abandon of their toilettes after their
day’s sport in the woods, and the queer varie-
ties of baskets, loaded down with the brown
nuts, covered artistically with gay colored
autumn leaves.
	There were pleasant thoughts in the hearts
of these boys and girls, that had come with
the day and the pastime, and they had begun
to learn the first lessons of love, and which of
us would say it is not passing sveet?
 
	"Their love in early infancy began,
	And rose as childhood ripen'd into man."
					 		AUNT EM.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	He is never without dignity who avoids
wounding the dignity of others.
	“Considering one’s own weakness is a great
help to gentleness in dealing with others.”
	There is speaking well, speaking easily,
speaking justly and speaking seasonably.
	He who can change his religion has none to
change. Those who prefer philosophy to
Christ never knew Him.—Spurgeon.
	A good deed is never lost; he who sows
courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants 
kindness gathers love. 
	Pleasure is a shadow, wealth is vanity, and
power is a pageant; but knowledge is ecstatic in
enjoyment, perennial in form, unlimited in
space, and infinite in duration.
	“Character is a mosaic which takes a life-
time for its completion, and trifles, the little
things of life, are the instruments most used
in preparing each precious stone for its
place.”
	There is nothing more wretched, mournful
and damnable in the eyes of God than the
ministry, if it be sought from impure motives,
and administered in an impure spirit; but
nothing more blessed in the eyes of God, if
the battle be fought in the manner enjoined
by our Captain.—Augustine.
	"Love must have expression, or it will die.
It can be kept forever beautiful and blessed as
at first, by giving it constant utterance in
word and act. The more it is allowed to flow
out in delicate attentions and noble service,
the stronger and more satisfying and more
blessed it will be. The house becomes home
only when love drops its heavenly manna in it
fresh every day; and the true marriage vow is
not made once for all at the altar, but by loving
words, helpful services, and delicate attentions
to the end.”
	“To be able to look cheerfully and hopefully
through clouds of poverty and distress is an
accomplishment bestowed by nature upon
every true and brave woman; and, no matter
how poor or humble her home may be, the
magic power of smiles can brighten its shadows
and lighten its cares. Upon the troubled mind
of a feeling husband a wife’s smile falls like a
sunbeam on a flower. And how much more
beautiful it makes the face that wears it than a
frown! When a wife and mother, forgetting
sorrows and hardships, smiles away her tears,
there is a loveliness in the act that speaks, to a
man’s heart more eloquently than words.”


﻿“Mrs. Lida Meriwether,the Southern poetess,
says, in the Woman's Magazine, that the por-
trait of John Stuart Mill at the Watts gallery
in New York ‘looks like nothing under the
sun but a nice old lady, who has brought her
knitting and come over to spend the afternoon
with the folks.' "


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER	1, 1885.


[Column 1]
		﻿LAW AND MARRIAGE.

	The agitation throughout the United States, and
indeed in some other parts of the world, concern-
ing the religious principles and institutions of the
people of Utah, to one entirely unprejudiced,must
seem, to say the least, uncalled for, and certainly
in those who have correct ideas of religious free-
dom, it must awaken earnest thought upon the
subject. When we look back upon the early
settlers of this far-famed country, and recall the
struggles for freedom and religious liberty, made
under the most trying circumstances, and by
strenuous effort and determined will; it seems in-
credible that only one hundred years should
elapse after the establishment of that dearly-
bought independence,until the same sort of tyranny
and persecution for religious belief, which our
forefathers suffered, should exist in this boasted
land of liberty, the asylum for the oppressed of all
nations.
	It may, perhaps, be argued that men are not
punished for belief, and yet it is true in many ways;
disfranchisement is punishment, and to many it is
severe. Ostracism from society is punishment;
to some it is actual suffering, and in ways that are
too numerous to mention here,“Mormons”are pun-
ished for belief only, without ever having broken
or infringed upon any law of the land.
	For years past, at every session of Congress,
new measures have been introduced for the ex-
press purpose of restraining “Mormons” in their
faith and practice,and to hinder their conscientious
convictions of the truth of those principles that
were practised in ancient times by men who walked
and talked with God.
	Marriage is as much the privilege of woman as
of man, and the commandment given to our first
parents was as imperative upon Eve as upon
Adam, and it has never been revoked. But men
have changed this command to suit their own
ideas, and have denied to woman, through their
established systems, the privilege of bearing
children. Maternity may be justly recognized as
the strongest attribute of woman’s nature, yet
custom and man-made laws have hindered hun-
dreds and thousands of women—we might even
say an innumerable number—from enjoying the
precious boon of motherhood. Shut out from
honorable marriage, they have not been able to fill
up the measure of their creation, or to realize the
fulness of the blessing of offspring, the supreme
joy of being a mother. Lonely and unloved they
have lived and died, without ever satisfying the
yearning for connubial companionship, and the
soul’s more intense longing for children to call
one’s own. The vast majority of women are too
pure in their nature ever to condescend to any
conditions except that of marriage, and would
prefer death to dishonor, and therefore live on
lonely and often desolate, using their time and
talents, as opportunity offers, in doing good and
promoting the welfare and happiness of others.
	It is always commendable to do good to others,

[Column 2]
but every individual born into this stage of exist-
ence has a duty to himself or herself, an object in
life above the simple fact of existence, and what
is there so lofty and sublime as to give life to the
immortal soul, that is, in so far as men and women
are the actual authors of life. To bestow life, a
life that can never perish, is worth all the suffering
and sacrifice the mother can make.
	And yet, in this enlightened age, we hear that
there are too many children being born. Does
not our Heavenly Father know how to carry on
His own work in the peopling of this world that
we inhabit. All who believe in the supremacy of
God must acknowledge this. Then why should
men change the order of the Almighty? Because,
as the Scripture says, “They are altogether gone
astray.” Women have not had power in their
hands to change the laws and customs, and can-
not, therefore, be held accountable for not fulfill-
ing duty, the same as men are; their delicacy
and the established rules of society and propriety
are such that women are not free agents in these
matters. One of the greatest writers and poets
has said,
	“Man's love is of man’s life a thing apart,
	'Tis woman's whole existence.”
If this is not really,it is partially true, at any rate;
and knowing this, how incomplete is the life of
single women. We are not arguing that plural
marriage is for all men, not by any means, for
only the very best men, with the highest motives
of action and the most sublime principles of life
ought ever to undertake such grave responsibili-
ties. This marriage question is an endless sub-
ject, but suffice it to say, that if womanly women,
who have the reverence for motherhood that God
has implanted in their nature, were to be honor-
able wives there would be a large proportion
over seven to each good, moral, virtuous, upright
man.
	However, Congress has decided to settle this
vexed question of plural marriage without regard
to the parties most interested,and deprive women,
who desire honorable marriage and homes of their
own, of that blessed privilege which God intended
all the daughters of Eve to enjoy. If Congress
takes upon itself such a heavy responsibility, there
will be a terrible reckoning “some day,” for all
those who have taken part in or consented thereto.
	It is already noised about that Cullom is prepar-
ing another anti-Mormon bill, so rabid, severe
and obnoxious, that even some of the most bitter
enemies of the “Mormon” people think it an ex-
treme measure, and one that will work very great
evil. The Utah commission have made their an-
nual report, and advised more severe punishment
for those who live with and recognize the wives
that they have most solemnly covenanted to love,
cherish and honor. Imprisonment, or punish-
munt, however severe, cannot touch men’s con-
sciences, and God has not revealed this principle
to His chosen prophet in this day and age to be
cast aside as a thing of naught. He had a pur-
pose in it, and that purpose will be accomplished,
if fifty-five millions of people have decided
against it. It would be amusing if it were not
such a serious subject, to read the newspaper
comments throughout the world on the condition
of things in Utah, they are so wide of the mark
and ridiculous. The following is an instance:
	“Mormon teachings from the pulpit are univer-
sally for first, boycotting all persons except Mor-
mons;”	*	*	*	then	goes	on with other as-
sertions equally false, and calculated to produce
the impression that there is no respect for law or
order observed. There is less bitterness mani-
fested even by those who have had to submit to
the most trying ordeals than one could suppose;
and as to posing as martyrs, men who are im-
prisoned because of having obeyed a divine law
with an honest conviction that they were further-
ing the purposes of the Almighty, are martyrs to
principle, and cannot, in any true sense, be re-

[Column 3]
garded or ranked as criminals, and there is a
time coming when this matter will be adjudicated
by a much higher tribunal than the Supreme
Court of the United States, for judgment is in the
hands of God, who will “reward every man ac-
cording to his works, whether his deeds be good
or evil.” “God will not be mocked,” neither can
men trample upon His laws with impunity. Al-
ready many so-called Christians, who once be-
lieved implicitly in the Bible, are throwing aside
the Old Testament, or regard it only as a fable or
romance, because it sustains patriarchal marriage,
and prophesies destruction, desolation, etc., and
no doubt ere long the New Testament will contain
too much truth for them, especially in its references
to the twelve sons of Jacob, the lineage of the
Savior, and other similar matters.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	DR. E. R. SHIPP makes a specialty of practis-
ing and teaching the art of obstetrics. The
present term of her school closes December, 1885,
and another begins on the 2nd of January, 1886,
when new students will be received on the most
favorable terms. For full particulars communicate
with Dr. E. R. Shipp, personally, or by letter, No.
18, Main Street, Salt Lake City.
	MRS. H. AMELIA F. YOUNG returned on
Saturday, October 31st, from a visit to some of
the Eastern States. Mrs. Young left the city on
the 27th of June last to visit relatives, friends and
acquaintances, and has traveled quite extensively
in the east, visiting Buffalo, New York, Boston,
and many other places. She returns in good
health and spirits, well satisfied with her "summer
out."
	A SISTER who called on us recently from St.
David, Arizona, gave a very interesting account
of the Relief Society of that place, under the
presidency of Sister Maria McRae. The Society
are preparing to put up a good sized house, in
which meetings can be held; the foundation is laid
and the adobies are made, and considerable means
has been already made through the industry and
perseverance of the sisters, and it is expected
that they will have a Fair,which will be sufficiently
elaborate to raise means to furnish the building.
This is quite an undertaking for the sisters in a
small place,and where everything is so new. They
deserve very great credit for their energy and en-
terprise.
	ON Monday morning, October 19th, Sisters
Sarah M. Kimball and Elmina S. Taylor of this
city, and Sister Aurelia S. Rogers of Farmington
left this city by the Utah Southern train to visit
the associations in the southern part of Utah Coun-
ty. Arriving at Santaquin, they held a con-joint
meeting of the Y. L. and P. A. The next day
they visited Goshen, where they held two meet-
ings, one with the Y. L. and the other with the
Primary. On Wednesday they visited Payson,
where they were joined by Sister Elizabeth How-
ard of Big Cottonwood, and they held three meet-
ings, one with the Relief Society, one with the Y.
L. and one with the Primary Association. On
Thursday morning Sister E. Howard joined Sister
M. W. Snow at Spanish Fork for the purpose of
visiting with her the Relief Society and associa-
tions in Emery Stake. The other sisters visited
Salem, and held two meetings there, one with the
Y. L. and one with the Primary. The following
day they went to Spanish Fork—Sister Mary John
and Annie Smoot had come over from Provo
—where they held three meetings, all numerously
attended. The Primary there they found to be a
very superior one. Saturday they went to Spring-
ville, and held a meeting with the Relief Society
and Y. L. The sisters enjoyed their visit very
much indeed, and no doubt they accomplished
much good among those they visited by their
counsel and encouragement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	Synopsis of semi-monthly meeting, held Sep.
5th, 1885, Counselor Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Singing, "O my Father," etc. Prayer by Coun-
selor B. W. Smith. Singing. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Minutes of Y. L.
from the 20th and 11th Wards, also P. A. from
21st and 20th Wards.
	Sister Zina rejoiced to meet with the sisters after
such a long absence, and referred to the beautiful
ideas she had noticed in the minutes from the as-
sociations. "Our children are like flowers, and
they will not grow up without cultivation, and we
need the Spirit of God with us daily, that we may
bring them up in an acceptable way." Made many
interesting remarks.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor and S. M. Kimball each
spoke a short time, and gave a few items of their
trip through Bear Lake valley.
	Sister B. W. Smith expressed her views on the
times, and her impressions that the times would
grow brighter.
	Sister Zina referred to the privileges the Saints
enjoy in the Temple, and the necessity of purity
of life, in order to secure the blessings of the
ordinances in the house of the Lord. Gave excel-
lent advice to mothers in regard to the dress of
children, and exhorted them to set good examples
before them. Spoke of the Hospital, and reported
its present condition and needs; urged the sisters
to send fruits, jellies, etc., and related some in-
teresting anecdotes that were applicable to her re-
marks.
	Sister E. H. Woodmansee and Sister Jane
Fowler bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister E. B. Wells thought the sisters would
cultivate themselves by speaking and praying in
the meetings whenever they had an opportunity.
Urged the mothers to pay special attention to the
company their sons and daughters associated with,
of the dangers to which the young are now ex-
posed, and the great interest she felt in the deport-
ment and cultivation of the youth of Zion. Sister
Mary Silver bore a powerful testimony.
	Sister Zina made closing remarks, and told the
congregation that Brigham Young had said the
true Saints would never have any trial greater than
this people had already passed through. Singing.
Benediction by Miss Alice Jenkins.

	Synopsis of semi-monthly meeting, held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
Oct. 3rd, 1885, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer by Prest. Horne, and singing
again, Prest. Horne read the resignation of Miss
Alice Jenkins, as secretary, and a motion was
made to accept it, she having served faithfully
for some years, and resigned now only on account
of removing from the city. Minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted, and minutes of Y. L.
from 10th and 20th Wards, and P. A. from 20th,
5th, 11th, 16th and 21st Wards were also read.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in which
she alluded to the trials through which the Saints
were passing, and the necessity of faithfulness.
Said she was proud of the brethren who had stood
up before the courts and borne a faithful testimony;
illustrated her remarks by Scripture quotations,
and brought up some good examples.
	A sister it the congregation made some remarks,
bore her testimony, and said how much she had
enjoyed her recent visit to the Temple.
	Sister Sinah Bishop spoke of the trials through
which the Saints are now passing, and bore testi-
mony to the truth of the principle of plural mar-
riage.
	Sister Dyer spoke a short time and broke forth
in the gift of tongues, Sister Bishop giving the in-
terpretation. Sister Elsmore bore a faithful testi-
mony of the Gospel. Singing, "The Spirit of
God," etc. Some other sisters bore testimony
and made good remarks. Sister Jane James spoke

[Column 2]

powerfully in tongues, and the interpretation was
given by Sister Bishop.
	Prest. Horne made some closing remarks, and
felt there had been much of the good spirit in the
meeting. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, "Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah," etc.
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Semi-monthly meeting, held Oct. 17th, 1885,
Prest. M. Isabella Horne presiding. Singing,
"Arise, O glorious Zion." Prayer by Sister E. B.
Wells. Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."
Minutes of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of Y. L. A. from the 12th and 20th Wards,
and P. A. of the 20th, 10th and 5th Wards. Prest.
Horne proposed Miss Jane Smalie as Secretary
of these meetings, which was unanimously
carried.
	Sister E. S. Taylor, the first speaker, gave an
interesting account of her visit to the General
Conference at Logan, and alluded to the excellent
sermons of Moses Thatcher and Erastus Snow.
	Sister H. M. Whitney spoke upon the present
condition of this people, the fulfillment of the
prophecies; gave some of her own experience,
and said she often thought we should exercise
more charity towards those who are being tried.
	Counselor B. W. Smith expressed her desire to
see the young people active in the organizations;
thought it was good for them to stand up and
speak; thought we ought to encourage them all we
could, and made other good remarks.
	Prest Horne then requested the sisters in the
congregation to occupy the time, and Sisters Tay-
lor, Kimball, Eva Young, Fowler, Watmough
and Mortenson spoke upon the principles of the
Gospel and bore testimony to its truth.
	Prest. Horne spoke a few minutes of the events
transpiring among the nations, and the final
triumph of the Saints. Meeting then adjourned
for two weeks. Singing, Doxology. Benediction
by Sister Watmough.


TO THE PUBLIC.

	Not long since, accompanied by a friend, I
visited the Deseret Hospital, the home for the sick
and afflicted. Thinking that an account of my
visit might be of interest to all sympathizers of
suffering humanity, I will pen a few words relating
to it.
	We were met at the door by a pleasant, nice ap-
pearing lady, who afterwards introduced herself
as Mrs. Jennie Whipple, and as she had urgent
business on hand, she ushered us into the sitting
room, and then left us to our own thoughts and
observations. Everything seemed in proper order,
but the most beautiful ornament the room con-
tained was a poor little lame orphan child, sitting
busily employed in looking over pictures. Strange
to say, before we left, we found that the child was
perfectly contented and happy—and not so strange
either, when I reflect back on the kind and loving
demeanor the Matron exercised to watch him.
	Later on, as we wended our way from room to
room,we found the same neatness and order that
characterized the sitting room prevailed elsewhere.
Everyone was as comfortable as could be expected.
I could not but exclaim, mentally, "God bless all
the noble women of Zion who are working so
zealously to support so worthy an institution." It
is a cause all sisters should take an interest in.
	Methinks the President, Officers and Matron
should have our support in every way that we can
give it, to aid them in this great work.
	IDA HOAG,


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SYLVESTER, Michigan, Oct. 22nd, 1885.
DEAR SISTER:
	It always affords me joy to commune with those
who have obeyed the Gospel in its fulness, have
been made partakers of that Holy Spirit, which


flows on those who strive to live by its teachings
Those only can realize the same who are in pos-
session of the same spirit, and when I address a
few lines to those who are in connection with this
Church, it seems to me like writing home, for my
heart and feelings are with them and all their
works, and when I read this worthy little paper,
the EXPONENT, it fills my heart with joy to see how
the sisters are progressing in the cause and king-
dom of God on this earth, which is never to be
thrown down nor given to another people.
	Dear sister, I have been a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for ten years,
but never had the privilege of gathering with the
Saints. I have always tried to live a true, faithful
Latter-day Saint, although deprived of the associa-
tion of any one of the Saints. I am alone, but
feel that God is with me. I know this is the work
of God; it comforts His children, and makes them
acquainted with one another, if they never see
each other, and it causes us to love one another.
It is a glorious work, and though we may be tried
in every way, let us be firm and pray for an in-
crease of faith and firmness, and if we are united
all will be well; we will be able to come off more
than conquerors, for the promises of God cannot
fail.
	Often, when alone, meditating on the sisters of
Zion, I ask myself, "Will I ever have the happy
privilege of mingling with the Saints of God?"
It seems a long time since I had that privilege,
but my heart is with the Saints; their feelings and
hopes are mine, and often, when thinking of these
glorious principles in that little paper that comes
to me, I find the same feelings and words I think
of, and it makes me feel happy to realize that
there are some who have the same hopes I have.
I am trying to live my religion all I can,but I have
no one to give me a word of encouragement or in-
struction, but God alone; I am very thankful for
His loving kindness to me. I want to come home
to Zion, for I have a work to attend to in the holy
Temple of the Lord. I shall come to Zion the
first chance I have.
	I have felt in trouble about the Saints there, but
I know God is with them; He is at the helm, never
fear; when the cup of iniquity is full, He will then
lay bare His arm and come out of His hiding
place and set His people free.
	I pray God to bless you all, and give you His
Holy Spirit to enable you to bear the trials of the
present crusade and live humble and prayerful.
May God bless the worthy sisters, is the humble
prayer of
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		JULIA T. PALMER.


PATTY SESSIONS. 

[Continued.]
	(On the 29th and 30th of March, 1847, Sister
Sessions speaks of having planted seeds of
various kinds, and beginning to make a garden.)
	Every one who knows anything of our so-
journ in Winter Quarters must remember how
delighted we all were with the idea of having
"garden stuff," after having been so long with-
out this sort of food, and suffering, as many of
the people had, with scurvy and other ailments,
in consequence. To those unacquainted with-
these matters it might seem a trifling affair,
but not so to those who had been deprived of
the blessing of vegetable food.
	(Sister Sessions alludes to many little
"spiritual feasts," or meetings, in which the
gift of tongues and interpretation, as well as
prophecy, were given to comfort the sisters in
the midst of severe trials through which they
were passing.)
	April 1st, she writes that she was with
Apostle Orson Pratt's wife, Sarah, in her con-
finement, and spent the remainder of the day
in visiting and attending to the sick, adminis-


[column 1]
tering to their temporal and spiritual needs.
Then she writes of having, given pork, corn
meal and other things, to help some of the
pioneers who were preparing for the journey to
the Rocky Mountains.
	On the 6th of April, 1847, Sister Sessions
attended the conference held at Winter Quar-
ters, a time long to be remembered by those
assembled on that occasion, so full of interest
to the Saints, when the conference adjourned
sine die. The following day most of the
pioneers started out on the journey. On the
8th Parley P. Pratt, one of the Apostles, arrived
at Winter Quarters, on his return from a mis-
sion to England. 
	Friday, the 9th, she writes, "Most of the
Twelve have gone out with the pioneers. Sun-
day, the 11th, went to meeting; Elder Parley
P. Pratt preached, giving us a synopsis of his
journey and of his mission to England. Tues-
day, the 13th, visited Sister E. R. Snow; en-
joyed ourselves very much; the Spirit of the
Lord was with us."
	Wednesday, the 14th, she writes, "The
Twelve returned on Monday from where the
pioneers were encamped, and have started
again this morning for the mountains. Elder
John Taylor, one of the Twelve Apostles, came
home from England last night, neither Elder
Taylor or Elder Pratt are going with the
pioneers. Thursday, the 15th, Louis Robinson
arrived last night, and brought me a letter
from Windsor P. Lyon, Sylvia's husband. Re-
ceived a visit from Sister Leonard, Lamb and
Miller." Sister Sessions writes of the scarcity
of provisions, and what hard work it is even
to get a little corn meal. "Sunday, the 18th,
Porter Rockwell and others leave to go on and
join the pioneers. Wednesday, the 21st, Pere-
grine and my daughter Sylvia and her child
came. I was almost overcome with joy and
gratitude to God for our preservation to see
each other again. The next day my son
David came, and I was almost overjoyed to
have my children, from whom I had been separa-
ted, around the table once more with father
and mother all rejoiced together. While
Sylvia was with me, we enjoyed ourselves to-
gether very much indeed.
	"On Sunday, the 25th, Elder John Taylor
preached; he had just returned from a mission
to England. After meeting we called on Sister
Nobles and Sister Ashley. Monday, the 26th.
Bro. Major is taking our portraits. Visited at
Sister Pearce's with Sisters Mary Ann Young,
Vilate Kimball, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Eliza R. Snow and others, and in the evening
we had a good meeting, in which we enjoyed
much of the Spirit of the Lord. Wednesday,
the 28th. Visited with Lucy W. Kimball,
Frances Swann Kimball, Laura Pitkin and
others. Friday, the 30th, Sylvia and I visited
at Brigham Young's with several of his wives.
This visiting among the sisters and having
spiritual meetings was what kept many from
being cast down and giving way to their feel-
ings during those days of anxiety. Tuesday,
May 4th, Sylvia packed up her things to return
to Nauvoo. Bro. Anson Call came down from
Punkaw." Then she speaks of Sylvia being
detained on account of the wind blowing so
they could not cross the river, and of a visit
to Sister E. R. Snow, who wrote some verses
as a memento and comfort for Sister Sylvia
Lyons.
	TO MRS. SYLVIA LYONS, BY MISS E. R. SNOW.
		Go, thou loved one, God is with thee,
			He will be thy stay and shield,
		And fulfill each precious promise,
			Which His spirit has revealed.

		From thy father and thy mother,
			Who are twined around thy heart,
		Also from thine elder brother,
			Thou art called a while to part.

		But thy husband will caress thee,
			And thy sweet, angelic child,

[column 2]
		With her growing charms, will bless thee—
			Thus the hours shall be beguiled.

		And thy younger brother, David,
			With his harmless, social glee—
		With the heart and hand of kindness—
			Often times will comfort thee.

		And the Saints of God who're banished
			From their country and their home,
		Who, for Jesus' testimony
			In the wilderness now roam,

		Will, with prayers and supplication,
			Plead thy cause before the throne
		Of the great Eternal Father,
			Where thy works of love are known,

		Guardian Angels will protect thee,
			And the spirit's still, small voice
		Will, from day to day, direct thee,
			Therefore let thy heart rejoice.

		O my Father! thou that dwelleth
			In the upper courts of light,
		Open Thou the path before her,
			Guide, O guide her feet aright.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	MENAN, BINGHAM CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking you would like to hear from our
Primary in this far away northern settlement,
I will pen a few lines.
	Our Primary was organized December 30th,
1884, Sister Annie A. Stephens, President; with
Sisters Harriet Beebee and Hannah Byindton,
as Counselors; Sister Elizabeth Beebee, Secre-
tary and Treasurer. Since that time we have
been striving to do our duty to the best of our
ability. We hold meetings weekly; they are
pretty well attended considering our scattered
condition. We have fifty-five names enrolled,
and twenty-five, average attendance. We
have work meetings once in two weeks, which
meetings we have only just started. We would
be pleased to see some of our sisters, for we
miss their wise counsel very much, and live in
hopes of seeing some of you in the near future;
we feel that we are greatly blessed of the Lord;
we are blest with good health, which we appre-
ciate and thank our Heavenly Father for. Our
people, generally, keep the work of wisdom.
Some of our sisters take the EXPONENT, as
well as the JUVENILE INSTRUCTOR, which are
a great blessing to us. We have a desire to
do all we can for the good of the little ones, as
well as for the advancement of the work we
are engaged in.
	Ever wishing to be one with my co-workers
in the Gospel of Christ, I remain,
	Your sister,
		ANNIE S. STEPHENS.

	BURNHAM, NEW MEXICO.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	A few weeks ago some of the good brethren
and sisters of Bluff City paid us a visit and
organized our Relief Society, Primary and Y.
M. M. I. A., the Y. L. having been previously
organized. Miss Dellie Stevens was chosen
President of Primary, Mrs. Mariette and Mrs.
Aggie Stevens, her Counselors; Miss May
Stevens, Secretary; Miss Mamie Burnham,
Treasurer. Mrs. Aabgail Stevens was chosen
President of Relief Society, and Mrs. Melissa
Slade and Mrs. Mary A. Farnsworth, Counsel-
ors.
	We had a most enjoyable time while the
brethren and sisters were here, and were en-
couraged to keep up our meetings as much as
possible, though we have little more than the
skeleton of each organization.
	The few little ones that are here are deeply
interested in their meeting together, and are
anxious to help to make it interesting. I neg-

[Column 2]

lected to say that Mrs. Mary T. Bigler was
chosen as Secretary for the Relief Society, and
Mrs. Elizabeth Stevens, Treasurer.
	The health of the people is generally good,
and thus far we have been left in peace, but
feel it is necessary to be cautious to be on the
safe side. Part of some families have to re-
main away, which is quite trying, as our num-
bers are so small, and we are still hoping and
praying for help.
	The weather, the past few weeks, has been
most delightful. We have been visited the
past summer by our worthy President, F. A.,
Hammond and his Counselors, Brothers Hall
and Adams; also Bro. Allen, of Bluff; we hope
to see them again soon, and they assure us that
we are not forgotten by them.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I am,
		Your sister,
			MARY S. BURNHAM.

	PIMA, ARIZONA.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society Conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Zion convened at this place,
September 25th, at 10 a.m., Coun. Mary L.
Ransome presiding. Opening exercise of sing-
ing. Prayer by Sister Sarah D. Curtis.
Singing. Minutes of last conference read and
approved. Verbal reports were given of the
various wards; all reported in good working
order, the general desire being to improve in
all good works.
	Sister Ransome addressed the conference;
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of
the sisters, that she might perform her duties
acceptably in the absence of President East,
who is at present on a visit to her son's, in
Apache Co. Said, "We should sustain those
that are place over us by the Priesthood of
God." Spoke upon many subjects of import-
ance; referred to the storing of grain; en-
couraged the circulation of the EXPONENT
among the sisters.
	Sister Sarah D. Curtis, of St. David, bore
testimony to the truth of Sister Ransome's re-
marks. Said, "They are calculated to do us
good if put into practice. We should be wise
in our conversation with each other, and let
our mouths be filled with words of righteous-
ness." Exhorted us to diligence, etc.
	Conference adjourned till two p.m. Singing.
Benediction by Josephine Rogers.
	Two p.m.: On the stand were President C.
Layton and Counselor. Singing. Prayer by
Prest. C. Layton. Singing. The statistical
and financial reports were read and approved,
after which the stake and local officers were
presented before the conference and sustained.
The remainder of the afternoon was devoted
to the Y. L. and P. A.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at St. David. Benediction by Coun. W.
D. Johnson.
	LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Secretary.


﻿ST. GEORGE PRIMARY

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The members of the Primary Association of
the four wards of St. George gave an enter-
tainment on Saturday evening last, the 17th
inst., in the Tabernacle, which proved quite a
success. The children deported themselves ad-
mirably, and rendered their songs and choruses
in a very pleasing manner. Much credit is
due to the stake president, Sister Julia H.
Ivins, and especially to her two daughters.
Sister Maggie Ivins and Sister Julia A. Mc-
Donald, for their assiduous labors in training
the children.
	The little ones seemed really to enjoy it, and
felt no more timidity at appearing on the stage
than they would have done if they had been


playing in their own garden. There was a
good audience, and friends seemed to feel
amply repaid for coming.
	I hope it may be the means of impressing
upon some mothers a sense of the advantage
of allowing their children to attend the meet-
ings regularly, for there are a few who regard
the dishes and such labors as the all-important
subject for attention, and do not remember
that now is the time for the children's charac-
ters to be formed, as well as to learn habits of
industry, and their minds should be stored
with useful knowledge in their youth. In
after life they will not regret any effort they
make for the sake of educating their offspring.
	Yours truly,
		M. A. G. BAKER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOGAN PRIMARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Logan Sixth Ward Primary has just
had a picnic, which was very enjoyable to all
present. They had made a quilt, which they
wished to present to a worthy sister who needed
one. Three of our little teachers, from ten to
twelve years of age, brought the widows and
aged sisters to share the good things the lunch
baskets contained. A hundred persons were
present. Songs, recitations and addresses from
our children followed.
	The afternoon was occupied in a lively
dance, in which our Sunday School joined.
Since this our schools have so increased, that
our Bishop, A. L. Schanchy has found it neces-
sary to enlarge the house.
	EMMA PIKE, President,
	E. L. W. CROWTHER,
	MARY JONES, Counselors.


HOW I BECAME A MORMON.

  Having learned from a friend of mine that
she expected an old friend of the family to
visit her, and, notwithstanding it was to preach
“Mormonism” he was coming, I accepted her
invitation to spend the evening at her home.
Of course I made up my mind not to become
a “Mormon,” but I was curious enough to
want to know something of their belief, so,
after the introductions were gone through,
Elder Robert Marshall, for that was our friend’s
name, came and sat down by me on a couch,
and, without further preliminary, introduced
the subject of baptism, proving it from Holy
Writ. I began to feel very small, as I could
prove nothing in defence of my own creed, al-
though I maintained that I was right, believing
in faith and repentance, as all the world pro-
fesses to do, spiritually, at least, but coming on
to baptism, why I had never so much as
thought of it for myself; I relied so entirely
upon what our clergyman taught that it never
entered my mind to search for myself, but here
was new revelation to me. Before going to
bed each night I prayed to God that I might
know if this was His work and instituted by
Him.
  I saw Elder Marshall frequently at my
friend’s house, and he never grew tired preach-
ing to us, and, indeed, it seemed we never got
tired of listening. Finally I resolved to be
baptized, and one evening, sitting around the
fire, he asked me if I had my mind made up
yet. I said, “Yes.”  He looked delighted, but,
said he, “You must be prepared to lose your
former friendships, and to meet with scorn,
contempt and persecution, for this is the heri-
tage of the people of God.” 
  Meanwhile, my own family could not hide
from me the fact that they were secretly
annoyed by my absenting myself so much from
home, and one day, just as I was going out of
the door, mother called to me, “Going to hear
another ‘Mormon' lecture?” Of course I took


no notice, but walked on.  No more was said
till some time afterward.  I attended a meeting
in my friend’s house; just a number of her rela-
tives were there, I being the only stranger.
When evening came, mother came with it,
knocked at the door and demanded me to come
home; accordingly I went home, and I can tell
you she “went for me,” the result being I left
my home in a few days and never returned.  I
lived three months in Belfast with my friend’s
sister, and then set sail for Salt Lake, which I
have not regretted.  I know that this is God’s
work, and I do desire to be found among the
faithful, enduring to the end.
	M.	S.


﻿A GENTILE’S OPINION.
	I am watching with great interest the oppres-
sion through which your people are now pass-
ing.  If the power of Mammon don’t blind
and pervert the spirit of your people, you will
still live and prosper; but in every contest it is
important to keep the enemy in front, and not
feed spies and traitors in your midst.
	Did you ever know an army that could suc-
ceed that allowed such in their camp?  All
honest people despise that class of people;
and non-Mormons love to see every body at-
tend to their own business, and let others alone;
and as to the plural marriage system, that
ought to be nobody’s business but the parties
contracting.  Men and women ought to be
allowed to contract as they please in the impor-
tant matter of marriage,and not have the ladies
hindered from marriage, by law, like our poor
government land is held for homesteads for
vagabonds and cut throats, who are unworthy
of any woman.  The ladies are to be benefited
by this system, and it is a wonder to me that
they are not nearly all in favor of it; but
many of them are blind to the great benefits
to result to them by plural marriage, and pre-
fer sacrificing their ease and liberty, and
submitting to a species of outrage to be in the
fashion.  Public opinion is very powerful to
hold the average mind down to its dictates; but
I hope when the ladies are generally enlightened
on this subject, and get the ballot and vote,
they will make some improvement in the law;
so much in their favor.
	As the law is now, many of the ladies can’t
marry at all, even to the worst grade of men,
because they are more numerous, and plural
marriage would give them all a chance to love
and be loved by some worthy man, that would
make life a blessing and a pleasure, instead of
having a master, as many of them now have.
	This is the way it looks to one in Alabama,
and I am not afraid nor ashamed to own it, for
I believe this principle to be the greatest boon
ever offered to the daughters of Mother Eve.
				JOHN M. RUSSEL.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA, ARIZONA, Oct. 11, 1885.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
  Your paper is a welcome visitor, and a great
many express a desire to take it, could the
means be obtained to pay for it, but this is the
great trouble with the most of those who de-
sire to take it. We are still hoping against
hope that times will change, but Dame Fortune
is very fickle, and does not come at every beck
and call. I do not think that money could be
spent in a better cause than in securing such
publications, that serve to strenthen and en-
courage us in the onward, upward path, which
it is our duty to follow; such I claim this
paper to be, and I never take it up in my hands
for perusal but I feel that the spirit of inspira-
tion has dictate its contents, and I feel to press
onward with renewed strength, and a determina-


tion to strive to prove myself worthy of a name
and a place in the midst of the Saints of God,
and to associate with those noble-sisters who
are working to carry out those principles of
our faith that will tend to unite and bind to-
gether, instead of rending asunder.
   It is indeed a time of trial to the Saints of
God, and it will serve to test every person who
has a name or a standing in the midst of the
Saints, and prove what kind of material they
are composed of, whether it is gold or dross.
Such men as Angus M. Cannon, A. Milton
Musser, H. B. Clawson, with a number of
others, who have the nobility and manliness
to stand up in court and proudly defend that
glorious principle of our faith, which, is most
sacred to us (a revelation from the Most High
God) and choose rather to suffer bonds and
imprisonment than to renounce it, are the pure
gold, without any alloy, and my heart says,
“God bless them and their families with every
blessing pertaining to this mortal life, and a
glorious eternity hereafter.”
	Four of our brethren have returned from
"Yuma, where they served a term of three
months and fine; the two remaining brethren,
Bro. George Wilson and Spillsbury, are ex-
pected home to-morrow, they serving six
months.  Many more are wandering as exiles
from their homes and families; and when will
this all end?  Not until the Church of God is
purified, when all who can be sifted will be,
and none will be left but the pure in heart.
May God grant that you and I may be of that
number.
   Pardon me for thus intruding upon your
time with such a lengthy letter; when I seated
myself it was merely with the intention of
giving notice of the money, but my pen kept
running in spite of me.  We are enjoying de-
lightful weather now the hot, melting season is
over with, and we certainly appreciate it.  Good
health prevails.  Francelle and family are well,
also Irene’s.
	Hoping these few lines will find your self and
family enjoying the same blessing, I remain, as
ever,		Your friend,
				SARAH M. POMEROY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

  "Mrs. Ole Bull is again at home at Elm-
wood." 
   "Mme. Nilsson has been decorated with
Russian and Danish orders.
   "In Green Co., Ind., a woman is sheriff and
has charge of the jail.”

 "Mrs. Grant, it is said, receives half a bushel
of letters and newspapers every day.”

   "Mrs. Helen Jackson is said to have had an
income of $3,000 a year from her writings
during her most active literary period.”

   "Mme. Christine Nilsson, it is said, has final-
ly determined to settle in England, and is
sumptuously decorating a house in Kensington
Court.”

   "Jenny Lind will sing in public this summer
for the first time in twenty-two years, in aid of
the Children's Infirmary in Norwich, Eng-
land."

   "Colonel T. W. Higginson contributes to
the current number of Science an article on
'American Flash Language,' with lists of words
and phrases.”

   "The New Era for October publishes in full
the paper read by Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney be-
fore the Association for the advancement of
Women, on "Woman in the Brahmo Somaj.”

   "At the recent rifle festival in Austria, a
Tyrolese peasant girl carried a standard that


was first used in 1646, when the women of
Bregenz, the canton to which she belonged,
victoriously repelled the Swedes."
   "The census of 1885 gives the whole number
of women in Massachusetts as 1,009,036. There
are 66,607 more women than men in the State.
This is an increase since the census returns of
1880 of 402."
  "The City in which municipal suffrage has just
been granted to women is Madras, not Madrid,
as was erroneously stated in the telegraphic
despatches. So much the worse for Madrid,
and so much the better for Madras.”

 The total number of self-supporting women
and girls over ten years of age in the United
States is 2,647,157. This number does not in-
clude the unpaid domestic labor in the home,
which is done by the wives, sisters,and mothers,
who are said to be ‘supported’ by their male
relatives. The census enumerates these women
among those "employed in no gainful labor.”
—Boston Transcript.

 “Mrs. Le Brenton, who died recently in
England in her seventy-eighth year, was a
niece of Lucy Aiken, the historian, and a
grandaughter of the well-known Gilbert
Wakefield, names which recall a long-past
literary generation. Though not a writer by
profession, she had a ready and graceful pen,
and will be remembered as the author of a
memoir of Mrs. Barbauld, and of a more re-
cently-published book, "Memories of Seventy
Years," which abounds in anecdotes and recol-
lections of such persons as Coleridge, S. Rogers,
Crabb, Robinson, George Dyer, the G. D. of
Elia, Flaxman, Stothard, Professor Smyth,
Malthus, Joanna Baillie, Ram Mohua Roy, and
many others whom she had known in early
life."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Keep Preserves Good.—Put them in stone jars or
vessels of glass, earthern or stoneware; cover tightly and
keep in a cool, dry place. Look at them every month; if
they are turning, scald and return to the jars.

Loaf Cake.—Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, one cup-
ful of sugar, three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of milk,
three teaspoonfulls of baking powder, flour to thicken, and
flavor with Burnett’s Extract of Lemon. Mix and bake
in one loaf.

	Sauce for Pudding. - Two large cupfuls brown sugar,
one large cupful butter, one teacupful wine, and a little of
Burnett’s Extract of Rose. Boil the sugar and wine to-
gether, then add the butter and Burnett’s Extract of Nut-
meg.

A Good Sponge Cake.—Into a froth made of seven eggs
and two teacupfuls of sugar, stir two coffee-cupfuls of flour,
mixed with a teaspoonful of saleratus and two of cream of
tartar. Flavor with a teaspoonful of Burnett’s Extract of
Lemon or Almond.

	Christmas Cake.—One pound of flour, half pound of
currants, half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, two
teaspoonfuls baking powder, three eggs, half a pint of
milk. Mix the baking powder thoroughly in the flour,
then rub in the butter, add the sugar, currants and flavor-
ing, beat the eggs and mix them with the milk, and after
mixing them all thoroughly together bake in a prepared
tin in a moderate oven; add two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's
Extract of Lemon.

	Gold Cake.—One and one-half cups of sugar, three-
quarters of a cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, the yolks
of eight eggs, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of
baking powder, and two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract
of Vanilla. Mix the sugar and butter to a cream, add the
eggs, then the milk, and lastly the flour in which the bak-
ing powder has been well mixed; this cake must be well
stirred; bake in one cake, in a medium oven, about one
hour.

	Silver cake. - One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-
half a cupful of butter, three-quarters of a cupful of milk,


three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder,
Burnett's Extract of Almond, and the whites of eight eggs
beaten to a froth. Mix the butter and sugar to
a cream, add the milk, then half of the flour and half of
the beaten eggs, then the other half of the flour and eggs,
then the baking powder, which has been well mixed with
the flour, and should always be sifted; flavor to taste with
almond flavor, make in one loaf, and bake in a medium
oven about one hour and ten minutes.

	Kiss Cakes.—One pound of flonr, eight ounces of but-
ter, eight ounces of currants, two ounces of sugar, and
one teaspoonful of Burnett’s Extract of Lemon. Mix the
flour and sugar, and make it into a smooth paste with
water, but do not make it very wet. Roll out three times,
and spread in the butter as for pastry. Roll it very thin,
and cut into round or square cakes; spread half of them
very thickly with currents, press the others gently on the
top, so as to form a sandwich, and bake in a quick oven
till of a light brown. If preferred, jam may be used in-
stead of currants.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Union, September 28th, of typhoid fever,
Annie Jensen, daughter of Mons and Ingre Jensen, aged
sixteen years and four months.
	Though not a member of our association, having just
eome from Europe, her desire was to unite with us after
her sickness. We bow in humble submission, and feel to
say, “Thy will, O Lord, be done,” and we, the Y. L. of
Union, feel to condole with her father and mother, brother
and sisters, and may they be strengthened and comforted
to know that their loved one was called home after reach
ing the valley of these mountains, where a work can be
performed for the living and the dead.
	We say, “Rest, dear sister, Annie, where you were so
beautifully laid away. till you shall come forth in the resur-
rection of the just."
	She was borne from her home to the ward house by six
young ladies dressed in white, and we feel she was worthy
of the respect shown her. Farewell till the resurrection
morn.
							MARY ANN SMART.

	DIED, in Holden, Oct. 9th, 1885, of old age, Polly
Stringam, wife of the late George Stringam. Sister
Stringam was born in Broom Co., New York, April 3rd,
1803. She embraced the Gospel in the year 1832, and
strove to keep its precepts by being truthful and exemplary
in her daily life, and was among the first who joined the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, and has been an active member
in the different settlements where she has been a resident.
She was loved by all who knew her for her kind, motherly
ways; her mind was always reaching out to do good. She
loved to speak of the goodness of God, and converse on
the principles of life and salvation. She donated freely to
the poor, and was ever on hand to do good.
	Mother Stringam has five living children, sixty-six grand
-children, sixty-five great-grandchildren, and many near
and dear friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting house,
which was well filled. Apostle Erastus Snow preached the
funeral discourse, followed by W. H. King, of Filmore.
Mother Stringam departed this life without a struggle, with
a full hope of a glorious resurrection, and on her death-
bed bore a powerful testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
			KATE STEVENS, Asst. Secretary R. S.

	It is with deep regret and feelings of sorrow that we re-
cord the death of our most esteemed sister, Marie Lindeloff,
who departed this life Oct. 5th. 1885, at her residence, in
Plain City, Weber Co., Utah, after suffering one week with
congestion of the lungs.
	Deceased was born at Tirop, Sweden, on the 28th of
August, 1823. Baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in 1858; emigrated to Utah in 1861.
She has been a member of the Plain City Ward twenty-
three years.
	Sister Lindeloff was, for a long time past, very often ex-
pressing her desire to do something to help others, and,
although a very weakly woman, seemed so anxious to
work, and many times in meeting would,say, “If I could
only do some good!” Finally she determiued to go to the
Deseret Hospital, where she worked as nurse and Matron
for nine months, ministering as an angel of mercy to the
sick and the dying, while she always comforted those who
mourned. She was very much beloved by both officers


and patients, and expressed great regret, in consequence of
ill health, at leaving so many dear friends there.
	Sister Lindeloff has, for seventeen years, been a most
faithful teacher in the Relief Society in this place. Her
house was always open for meetings and business of the
Society. She was an earnest and indefatigable laborer in
the cause she had espoused, diligent and faithful in all her
duties, kind and benevolent to the poor, charitable to the
erring, meek and humble in spirit, exemplary in all the re-
lations of life, with an unfaltering faith in God and her
religion. She was beloved by all who knew her, and died
in the hope of a glorious resurrection to inherit eternal life
in the mansions of the just.
				ALMIRA RAYMOND, President,
				M. A. W. SPIERS, Sectetary.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

		Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
		DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

		F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
VOL. 14		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1885.		No. 12.


[For the EXPONENT.]
		PAST AND PRESENT.
[CAUSED BY AN INTERVIEW AFTER LONG ABSENCE.]

	In a mirror now I see
	I am not what I used to be;
	The Glass your presence holds!
I marvel at the mighty change—
Through what a length of years I range
	To view all it unfolds!

There was a time when just that voice
Would cause each fibre to rejoice
	In my responsive heart,
Would cause my brain to lighten up
As though a consecrated cup
	Its incense would impart,

And cause the Sun himself to shine
With beams that seemed indeed divine
	And Earth a paradise—
And life put on a gayer suit, 
And flowers sprang up, and luscious fruit
	Seemed daily to arise!

There was a charm within that eye
That seemed thy words to magnify,
	And fill my soul with love; 
Yes, with a worship, holy-pure, 
It seemed my spirit to allur
	With incense from above!

No earth-born passion fed the flame
That glittered on the mystic chain
	With an electric light; 
I feel it was a given dream,
That govered as a rainbow beam
	O'er many a stormy night!

And now, this day, 'tis shewn to be
An evanescent dream to me,
	That I no longer need,
I've climbed the hill-I stand above
The needed dream of earthly love-
	It now would but impede;

The glow worm's little light is given,
E'en from the chancery of heaven,
	And for a purpose wise; 
And grateful I will ever be,
The light of love was shed on me;
I feel it was by heaven's decree
	To aid my soul to rise!
			
					PSYCHE.


MORMONISM.
A WOMAN'S VIEW OF THE SUBJECT.

Man the author of our Bible and our Religion,
	the Maker of our Laws and the Supreme
	Arbiter of our Destiny—Considering the
	mess he has made of it, would not a New
	Departure be in Order?

	Everything depends upon the point of view.
Few women will be found who have given
thought to the subject that would not as a
choice of evils, prefer Mormonism. "By their
fruits ye shall know them.” Statistics show
that crime, misery and debauchery among the
Latter-day Saints are reduced to a minimum,
and may well put us to the blush. Where in any
Christian State of our Union is a parallel to
be found.  But, oh, horror! Does a woman en-
dorse polygamy? Not without qualification.
Since men will have plurality of wives, why
not legalize the relation, both in religion and
in law? Have the courage of your convictions;
give all your wives the shelter of your name,
the refuge of your roof. Woman’s interest is

[Column 2, Mormonism, cont.]
best observed by that system, which at least
gives her legal status.
	We are accustomed to refer with pride to
our Christian homes, as the outcome of our
civilization—yet they are only one step re-
moved from the brothel, the saloon, the
gambling-house. Does it never occur to the
male-mind that all these hideous ulcers which
are eating out the heart of society, are directly
tracable to the one great crime against woman
—the edict of both the church and state—that
she should be subject to man?  Might makes
right,the old,old maxim, handed down through
centuries of rapine, and bloodshed! How far
has an enlightened Republic founded on the
principle of personal liberty, progressed in the
century of its existence? As far as woman is
concerned a mere weak reproduction of old-
world system! It is always the woman “that
thou gavest me;” made for man’s use; a play-
thing, a bauble, a convenience (and under all
conditions a necessity), put to any use, to serve
the lord and master’s sovereign will; in theory
a divinity, in practice a slave to his passions
and his lust!
	Just here every “lady” in the land takes
issue with me, but ignore, as it we may, the
fact remains, the poor outcast is indeed our
sister, and every blow at her strikes you and
me as well. The poison has penetrated through
every grade of society, and man, who made an
“outcast” of the one is not apt to shrine the
other as a “divinity.” To his depraved soul
all women are alike.  It is in this degradation
of humanity that every social evil has its birth,
its growth and its assured longevity!  All
religions have been powerless to arrest the ever
increasing momentum of the social evil. The
Christian minister draws the line at the “out-
cast’s” door—who enters here leaves hope be-
hind—for her no help or solace here nor in the
world to come! Yet there was one, whose teach-
ings we profess to follow, that said, “Neither
do I condemn thee, go, and sin no more.”
	Why should the woman be condemned,
while the man goes unscathed? Surely all re-
ligions teach that God is no respecter of per-
sons—then, why should man make laws to
controvert God’s law? Being so much more
able, physically, to take care of himself than
woman, why should all  safeguards of society
be.for him alone? He claims that the woman
must be taken care of, and such is the care he
takes of her. Just now the civilized world
held its breath in horror at the ghastly revela-
tions made in London, one of the great cen-
ters of christianity and civilization. Just one
glance of the awful abyss was accorded—
enough, one should think, to make every man
bow his face to the dust, and then the gay
whirl of society went on as before. The col-
lective wisdom of the masculine mind can find
no remedy—the only crime committed seems
to be in the exposure. Is not the earth His
and the fulness thereof? It was urged against
the man, who now holds the highest position in
the gift of the people, and, as we proudly claim,
on the habitable globe, that he had failed to
“seal his wives unto him,” and with one voice
the response came from every masculine throat,
“We all do it; why make a scapegoat of
one?” 
	From the intimate relations of the sexes
man can never rise higher than the plane to
which he assigns woman; and this fact easily
explains all the complications into which our
civilization has drifted. We started out from 

[Column 3, Mormonism, cont.]
also premises and have naturally reached
false conclusions. It is the old feudal system,
transplanted to our shores, and its blight has
fallen on our religion, our politics and our
whole social structure.
	With woman, as co-laborer, how beautiful
the world might be. The one not inferior and
degraded, the other with no proud sense of
ownership and authority. Both together,
equal in every natural right—as Omnipotence
intended them to be—earth would be better in
the new condition, and marriage religion,
truth, justice and morality something more
than an empty sound.— Chattanooga Daily
Commercial.						T.


﻿KINDNESS.
	Among all the characteristics of life, kind-
ness is one that is most essential. We should
endeavor to be kind to each other, and try our
best to make those with whom we associate
happy. Those who are truly kind and noble
by nature, like the truly modest and pure,
generally think others likewise, whereas the
naturally mean and vulgar are apt to charge
others with being the same.
	We as young people should always be kind
and have due respect for the aged; for we hope
some day to be old ourselves, and then we
would like to be respected.
	Show me a home where kindness exists and
there you will find union and strength. Then
how necessary it is that little seeds of kind-
ness be sown in youth that they may blossom
in old age.
	We may go still farther and see what effect
kindness has on a nation: where it does not
exist you will find hatred and strife. For an
example we have only to look around and see
the thousands who are fighting against Zion.
There is no gem that a lady or gentleman can
wear that will glitter brighter than true re-
gard for others.
					MRS. C. KIRK.


HOME-MADE CHRISTMAS GIFTS.

	AN UMBRELLA-STAND.—Take a piece of
stove-pipe of proper length; cover the outside
with Lincrusta Walton, procurable by the
yard at almost any paper-hanger’s; gild or
bronze this with the liquid prepared for such
purpose. Paint the inside of the pipe a dark
red, and fit in a wooden bottom.
	LETTER RACK.—Select two smooth and
strong wooden butter-plates such as are sup-
plied by your grocer; cut one down for the
pocket; place the edges together and glue a
strip of black muslin over them. Give the
whole two coats of black paint. Paste on
daisies cut from cretonne or, better, paint them
on—if you can; varnish the whole rack inside
and out with white varnish; add hanging rib-
bons to match the daisies.
	CUSHION FOR HAIR-PINS.—To the bottom
of a round box—say a collar-box—about four
inches in diameter, and one and a half high,
glue a piece of pasteboard as a rim. Do not
use the cover. Fill the box with curled hair.
Crochet, from straw-colored Saxony worsted, a
cover to fit snugly over the box and thus form
the crown of the hat; crochet a rolling rim on
this and draw it over the pasteboard. Tie a


ribbon around the crown as a hat-band, with a
bow on one side.
	SCRAP BASKET.—Get or make two paste-
board boxes of the desired height, one of
them two inches smaller in diameter than the
other.  Place one within the other, fastening
the bases together, and join at the top with a
two-inch strip of pasteboard sewed strongly
around the tops. Sew a neat cretonne panel
on each side, with a band of plush at top and
bottom and a plush ball and tassel at each cor-
ner.  Line with silesia to match the plush.
Or, the panels may be of satin with flowers
painted in.
	A PHOTOGRAPH CASE—capable of holding
several dozen cabinet or imperial cards may
be made by folding a piece of plush together
and cutting it two inches larger than the card.
Cut out a piece of wigan for lining, a trifle
smaller, and baste it on the plush; then baste
the plush, and line the edges with satin, hem-
ming this on with very fine stitches.  The
pockets are of plush, one quarter the width of
the case; turn the edges of these and hem them
to the back.  Decorate the pockets with “For-
get-me-nots,” or some other appropriate flower-
	SCRAP BASKET.—Get four bamboo sticks
from some furniture factory, or four rustic
sticks if bamboo is not obtainable; gild the
rustic sticks if these are used.  Purchase a
fancy straw basket and line it with satin.
Make the lambrequin of plush of the color of
the lining; cut the lower edge in squares and
point each square.  Embroider a spray of
flowers in the space between the sticks.  Line
it with satin and attach to each point a tassel
made of crewel.  Fasten the lambrequin
over the inner edge of the basket so as to con-
ceal the top of the lining.  Mount the basket
on the sticks, tacking it on from the inside.
	A CARD RECEIVER.—This may be made by
cutting three pieces of rattan, each nine inches
long, and joining them at the top by tying
them together with strong thread.  Spread two
of them far enough apart at the bottom to
make a well proportioned easel, and attach
the cross-piece as a rest.  Cut the envelope—a
perfect square—from a piece of panama canvas;
bind the edges with narrow brown satin ribbon,
and work some little pattern in the corners
with brown silk; fold and overhand the lower
parts together in to envelop-shape, and fasten
it on the easel.  Ravel out a piece of the can-
vas and tie a bunch of the raveling at the top
and at each foot of the easel with a ribbon
bow.
	CHRISTMAS BANNER.—Over a piece of
heavy brown paper of the size of the proposed
banner, stitch a piece of light sea-green cotton
flannel for the central panel, and very dark
cotton flannel for the bands at bottom and top.
The pendant balls are made with the dark
flannel over round pieces of pasteboard.  Sus-
pend them on gilt cord; a heavier cord, to
match, should be used for hanging the banner.
Sew a piece of natural holly in the central
panel; cut the letters from white paper; glue
white cotton on their faces, and then sow the
letters to the dark bands. Glue or stitch
small pieces of cotton all over the banner to
suggest snow.  Larger pieces should be glued
at the top of the bands and upon the pend-
ants.
	PHOTOGRAPH SCREEN.—Cut out eight pieces
of pasteboard, each 8 1/2 iuches by 6 1/2.  In four
of these pieces cut away the centers to form
the mats or inside of the screen.  Cover each
mat neatly with wine-colored satin, letting it
overlap the opening in each mat about half an
inch; slash and baste around each opening.
Cover the back of the mats with silesia and
hem the satin on this.  Cover the other four
pieces with satin on one side and silesia on the
other; overhand them around the edges. Baste

[Column 2, cont.]
the mats and backs together, silesia inside, and
overhand them together on all sides except the
top, which is left open for slipping in the photo-
graphs.  Decorate each mat neatly and grace-
fully.  The name of the person to whom the
screen is to be given may be worked on the
outside.
	A PAPER RACK.—Get a wooden box—a
starch or soap box—from your grocer.  Take
it apart, and plane and smooth it carefully.
Use the bottom of the box for the back of the
rack.  Cut one of the end pieces to a width of
six inches, for the shelf; saw the brackets for
the sides of the shelf from the side-pieces of
box, and cut the lid flown to the right dimen-
sions for the slanting front of the rack.  Ebon-
ize all the parts with the “ebony liquid” used by 
cabinet-makers; nail shelf, brackets, and slant-
ing front, securely; putty the nail-holes and
blacken them, so that they will not be noticed.
Cover the front of the rack with some neat
border design in Lincrusta Walton, gluing it
on, and gilding it, or leaving it the natural
color, as desired.  Put strong cord or fancy
wire through the back of the rack to hang it
up by.
	POCKET PIN CUSHIONS.—To make the pansy,
cut three pieces of purple velvet, and three of
yellow silk, line with bits of white wigan, and
join as nearly as possible in pansy form.  Cut 
a back to fit the whole, cover this with purple
velvet, and join it to the pansy with a layer of
cotton between, sprinkled with sachet powder.
A few lines of yellow paint on the purple
leaves, and purple on the yellow leaves will
give more of the pansy look.
	The star is formed of twelve diamond
shaped pieces of card-board—six for the front
and six for the back, alternately covered with
dark aud light plush or velvet.  Overhand the
parts together, and join the back and front of
the star, placing a layer of scented cotton be-
tween.
	The domino is made of black satin ribbon,
cut to just the size of a domino.  Work the
dots in with white silk; glue both faces to stiff
cardboard; make a narrow edge of black satin,
overhand the dominos together; fill with bran
and sachet powder before closing up one end.—
St. Nicholas.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CARELESS PENMANSHIP.
Contributors to magazines and newspapers
should write a legible hand, using ink invaria-
bly.  Nothing is more exasperating to an editor
than to receive carelessly scrawled manuscript
unpunctuated, probably, and written in faded
ink or blurred lead pencil.  No wonder the
waste basket is never empty!  The importance
of writing distinctly when writing for publi-
cation was recently illustrated in a magazine
in London.  In a clergyman’s letter from Asia,
he meant to write the "people of Judea,” but
the printer made it “the people of India.”
The manuscript was submitted to an expert
chirographist, who decided that the printer
was entirely justified.  The clergyman’s
“Judea”, as written, had an I instead of a J,
an n instead of a u, and it was impossible to
decide whether the next to the last letter was
intended for an e or an i, it being as near one
as the other.  People who write carelessly and
indistinctly, when writing for publication, have
nobody but themselves to blame when mistakes
are made in printing names of persons or
places.  The printer is usually wonderfully
expert in deciphering bad writing, but he can
not perform miracles.  As an experiment, let
the reader hastily write down the words Judea
and India, without dotting the i of the latter
and then submit it to a company of friends to
decide “which is which and which is t’other.—
Selected.


HONOR TO THE AGED.
In the Second Ward in this city on November
2nd a pleasant surprise party was given to our
worthy President, Sarah Smith Wheeler, on
her 79th birthday, by the sisters of the Re-
lief Society, where all present enjoyed them-
selves at a dinner, prepared by the sisters, and
in offering congratulations to one who has
labored so long and faithfully as our president.
The sisters also presented her with a small
purse of money.
		We could not tell thee half the good
	That now our wishes softly bear,
		In heaven alone is understood,
	The fullness of our birthday prayer.
				SARAH MITCHELL, Sec.


LITTLE LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:

	I am a member of the Richmond Primary
class.  Our President and her counselors do
all they can to make our meetings interesting.
We held a Primary District Conference—our
Stake President, Sister Jane E. Molen was
present and gave us some good instructions.
	I like to attend Primary meetings and Sun-
day School.  My father is on a mission and I
hope that I shall be worthy to be a missionary
when I am old enough and labor for the King-
dom of God.  With love to all, I remain,
	your young brother in the Gospel,
				CHARLES W. Nielson
	P. S.  Sister Wells will you please insert
this little letter in the Exponent? 
				Richmond, Nov. 5th 1885.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Myra Clarke Gaines, of course under
a fictitious name, is the heroine of a new novel
by Rhoda E. White, entitled “What will the
World say?"

	"France has agricultural schools for girls.
One of the chief is near Rouen, and has 300
girls from six to eighteen years of age. The
farm is over 400 acres.

	A new play, called “The Doctoresses,” to
make fun of lady M. D.s, has just been brought
out in France at a popular theatre.  “All
Paris” is rushing to see it, and to join in the
laughter bestowed on the heroine of the piece,
who is, of course, an "M. D.”

	“The Woman's Advocate is a little paper
edited by Mrs. M. H. Pengily, in the interest
of sane women confined in lunatic asylums. It
also makes an earnest plea for the better treat-
ment of women patients in these institutions,
who are too often cruelly mismanaged.”

	“Mrs. Fanny Sawtell, of Lontezuma, Colo.,
has been working a mine which she owns there,
for six years, and says she never enjoyed life
better.  When in the mountains by herself, she
wears a belt filled with cartridges, and a ‘life-
preserver,' for self-defence in case of need.

	In most of the cantons of Switzerland the
children of poor people are regularly hired
out by auction, lest their parents should be
compelled to seek public assistance.  Recently,
in the market-place of Biel, near Berne, in
spite of the heartrending entreaties of a
widowed mother, her four young children,
ranging from two to ten, were “placed" out
for a year to the highest bidder by the public
crier.  Switzerland evidently needs to adopt
woman suffrage,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A SONG OF ZION.
	Zion, awake, for the darkness falls,
		And a long night cometh on.
	And the trusted friends in the banquet halls
		To the foeman’s camp have gone.
	And the traitor’s tongue and the slayer's arm
		Are nerved to deal the blow
	To break thy strength and to spoil thy homes,
		By the faggot's cruel glow.
	Daughter of Zion, go lay aside
		Thy rament rich and fair,
	Go, free thy heart of its worldly pride,
		And cover thy shining hair,
	For the wicked watch and wait for thee-
		They hate thy virtue rare
	Let thy festal song and thy joy be stilled,
		And bow thee in fervent prayer.
	Daughters and sons, can ye rejoice
		When truest and bravest men,
	Chained and guarded, are crowded in
		Like lambs in the prison pen?
	Children of Saints, do ye forget
		That the bondage cometh first-
	Till the soul is proved and purified-
		Ere the prison walls are burst?
	Lo! the trump of God hath sounded now
		The call to the battle field,
	"Thrones shall totter" and rulers bow
		And every nation yield;
	Then forth from every temple's height
		Shall peal with one accord,
	Free Israel's song to usher in
		The reign of Christ the Lord."
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, November 7th 1885.


THE SEASON FOR MEDITATION.

	“It is the melancholy season” of the year,
the time when all nature puts off her beauti-
ful garments with which she has been so pro-
fusely and artistically adorned, and as it were,
bewails her fate, moans for the lovely robes
with which she has bedecked herself and that
she must now lay aside for a season baring
her bosom to the piercing winds that blow so
fiercely and the cruel storms that beat so
heavily, stripping off even the few faded and
tattered shreds, that still remained to cover
her naked limbs.
	What a wonderful creature is nature, and
how emblematic in all her movements and in
all her ways of life, even in sympathy, we
might almost say sentiment and positively say
feeling.  How grand and with what majesty
does she array herself after wearing the royal
crown of summer gracefully passing to the still
more: royal purple and crimson of Autumn,
and with what dignity doth she clothe herself
as though for a queenly presentation to all her
subjects, that they may behold her grandeur
on hill and mountain height and in the mag-
nificent forests in splendor almost dazzling.
	In the Spring one's thoughts come lightly
gushing up from the fountain of the heart like
an overflow, dancing to the rhythm of the
babbling brooks, and merry songs of birds,and
twitter and hum of insects, but in the late
Autumn days, one feels the shadows of
silence creeping on and around, and a sense
of dying beauty with which the deepest feeling
of the heart holds sweet companionship.  Ere
the winter with its yule-logs and Christmas
festivities has really come, there is oft a sense
of dreary calm, as though nature were enjoy-
ing a sort of silent repose, and though the
winds are occasionally restless, and sudden
storms sweep over the landscape, ruffling the
composure of nature and of the human heart
and mind, yet this mood invites to meditation,
thought, reflection, sentiment, if you will, and
even in a peaceful way one falls to musing and
recalling the delights of other days.  The
scenes are shadowy and fill us with something
beyond the power of speech, we commune with
ourselves and find it most effective.  Silence
and repose are sometimes, the most grateful
sensations, for in the bustle of the great living,
breathing, pulsing world, we lose our best
thoughts; they fly away from us and are lost
in the realms of space beyond recall.  At
times when quiet reigns in nature’s realms
we hunt for these lost treasures, and though
we may not indeed find them, we have a touch
of memory from them that brings us calm.
No, we cannot live over again what has gone,
but in memory we reproduce pictures of the
bright, the beautiful, the gay, the sombre and
clouded, all touching tenderly the heart,
through the memories which have lain folded
away from sight, and almost entirely forgotton,
until some trifle in nature, or some particular
mood recalls it, all at once, we know not ex-
actly why.
	The dead past, or the face of a dead friend,
or the gentle touch that thrilled our souls in
bye gone days,may come with a quiver of pain,
or a soft whisper of peace, and, in a moment,
as it were, bursting upon our view will appear
a whole horde of recollections that seemed to
have been buried forever.  How beautifully are
all such feelings toned, and the proud spirit of
mortal subdued by the peculiar con-
ditions of the fading of the green leaves,
“the death of the flowers,” and the sighing
and moaning of the winds of November.
	The remembrance,too, of “fruitless longing,”
aspirations of the soul that have failed of ful-
fillment, endeavors to climb to heights un-
attainable because of the many obstacles in
our pathway, and the rough rocks and sharp
thorns that left us torn and bleeding, and yet
in other places loving hands have tended us,
folded us in the bosom of peace and guided
our weary feet “through the green pastures and
by the still waters.”
	Goodly gifts come too, with the Autumn, a
rich heritage of corn and grain, the sheaves
sometimes exceeding heavy, and luscious fruits
and nuts of brown, these	remind us of the
meritorious labors of those who have garnered
sheaves of good works, and laid up treasures
of wisdom and knowlege against the day of
need, the time when the Lord, the judge of all
the earth, shall require from each an account,
of their labors and the use they have made
of that which was entrusted to their care and
stewardship.

		“So much of change my life hath known,
	I love those dear familiar ways
		In which I walk and muse alone
	In all the calm of Autumn days."

	To ramble undisturbed at this season of the
year and hold sweet discourse with Dame
Nature, not in the passive eloquence of words
but in that communion of exquisite silence
that calls out the truest sympathy, and the
best and purest thoughts and feelings of
which humanity is capable.  Such rare moods
refresh the weary soul and make us feel that
God is ever near to own and bless his chil-
dren.
							AUNT EM.


FATHERS OF THE NEXT GENERA-
TION.
	Pass by the girl of the period for once, and
consider the ways of the young man of our
day.  Is he such a paragon that he has a
right to set himself up as a railer at the gen-
tler sex?  That the young woman has taken
new fields of work is very true, but she has
done so in spite of the competition of the
young man of the period, and thus earned her
place by the survival of the fittest.  While
she has done this the native young man has
left the plow and the work-shop, and has
sought what he supposes is more genteel em-
ployment, until the useful branches of indus-


try are now largely filled by persons born and
trained in other countries.  While the general
increase of education has opened up many new
employments for girls, and they have taken
their places in them bravely, the young men
have drifted into clerkships or speculation,
or into the small politics, most ruinous of all.
The same is true in matters of higher culture.
The young man has become listless, or idle, or
has gone undisciplined, while the girls have
organized book and music clubs, attended lec-
tures, and otherwise fitted themselves for the
more exacting duties of our modern life.  It
is often the case that, while the rich young
man goes rapidly to the dogs by reason of his
bad habits and worse vices, his sister is en-
gaged in the exacting duties of church or
charity, or in other work which cultivates the
humanities and does the world some good.
The real truth is that, the country over, there
are not enough earnest, deserving, ambitious
young men to marry the honest, sensible, well-
meaning girls who are ready to do a true
woman’s part in building up good and happy
homes.  Our family training, defective as it
may be in many respects, has still kept the
rein on girls, while it has given the spur
to boys, and if the gamblers are sensible they
will try to devise some way to overcome this
inequality, and thus bring the young man up
to such a standard as shall fit him to do some-
thing else in life than to stand off and rail at
the follies or the frivolities of young women.—
Selected.


MISCELLANEOUS.
A beautiful soul is rather to be envied than
a beautiful face.—Ez.
	Strike from mankind the principle of faith,
and men would have no more history than a
flock of sheep.—Buluer.
	Natural ability without education has oftener
raised man to glory and virtue, than educa-
tion without natural ability.—Cicero.
	The darkest hour in the history of any
young man is when he sits down to study how
to get money without honestly earning it.—
Horace Greeley.
	There is a gentle element, and man may
breathe it with a calm, unruffled soul, and
drink its living waters, till his heart is pure;
and this is human happiness.—N.P. Willis.
	No man has come to true greatness who has
not felt in some degree that his life belongs to
his race, and that what God gives him He
gives him for mankind.—Philips Brooks.
	I cannot tell you whether there is any par
ticular etiquette to be observed in administer-
ing a kiss; the great beauty of a kiss lies in
its impulsiveness, and in its impressibility.—
H. W. Shaw.
	Henry W. Shaw (“Josh Billings”), by
whose death we lose not merely a humorist,
but an uncommonly shrewd coiner of aphorisms
that condense much practical wisdom, it ap-
pears was the Uncle Ezek of the Century's
“Bric-a-brac” department.—Ex.
	Parents should remember that what they
are in themselves will form a far stronger
force in molding their children’s characters
than the most fervent exhortations they can
utter, the most urgent efforts they can make,
or the longest array of motives they can pre-
sent.  It is their living example that will be
followed.  If to them duty is a cross heavy
to be borne and happiness something quite
apart from it, perhaps even opposed to it,
no reasoning, however cogent, no assertions,
however forcible, no testimony, however
weighty, will ever convince their children of
the contrary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿ 
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 	-		 Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	NOVEMBER 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
	CHOOSE THE BETTER PART.
			      ------
   The present time is, to the Latter-day Saint,
fraught with the most intense interest, as well as
bit with mighty events, and it causes one to medi-
tate solemnly, and weigh and measure one's own
capacity and strength to endure the trying ordeals
through which the Saints are, and may be called
upon to pass, in order to prove their integrity and
steadfastness to the truth.  Humility, patience
and sacrifice are necessary to the Saint of God,
and one needs to be clothed upon with all the
Christian graces to meet and combat with, and
overcome all the influences, temptations and be-
setments, as well as all the opposition, that
arouses in the soul the fire of indignation at re-
peated insults from those who delight in making
war upon the Saints of God, and destroying the
virute and purity of those who have been made
partakers of the truth, and received that knowl-
edge which carries conviction to the human heart.
As there is joy in heaven over one sinner that re-
penteth, so also is there exultation in the dominion
of Satan over one who is lost from the fold of
eternal life.  The powers of darkness are grow-
ing thicker and darker, and the thraldom of sin
and iniquity is binding faster and stronger its
chains upon those who have stepped aside from
the "narrow way," and been caught even unawares
in the snares and devices of the enemy of all
righteousness.
   A venerable lady, who is now no more, has
often reiterated in our hearing a saying of Joseph
the Prophet, "that the time will come when the
powers of darkness will be so great that they
would be much more to be dreaded than disease,
for they would be more seductive, catching and
deadly in their nature."
   Surely this will come to pass, and how shall the
Saints guard and protect the innocent and inex-
perienced from such unforeseen and terrible
dangers?
   All the protection that can be thrown around
the youth of Zion, all the teaching of fathers,
mothers and instructors, as well as the noble ex-
ample that must ever characterize those who stand
as expounders of correct and holy principles, all
these and more will be necessary to preserve the
purity and faith, and promote the higher spiritual
development of the children of Zion under the
peculiar exigencies of the Saints in this day and
age, and the evils brought into their midst by
those who ridicule virtue, and set a price upon the
heads of men who seek to inculcate and establish
institutiosn that tend to a higher moral plane, and
a broader field of philanthropic effort for the hu-
man family; men who have thrown aside the
advantages and emoluments that the world offers,
for the sake of doing a nobler and holier work for
the benefit of mankind, temporally as well as
spiritually. And this work cannot fail, however
offensive it may be to the government, and to those
who cannot comprehend its fitness and genius, yet
it will endure, and those who fight against it will
be destroyed, just as the prophets foretold.  Mean-

[Column 2]
﻿time the Saints have need to guard every loophole
where sin and iniquity might enter, or any evil
influence penetrate to lead astray the weak, the
young and unsuspecting. 
	If the youth of Zion will hearken to the coun-
sel and instruction of their parents, and of those
who are set to lead and guide in Israel, they will
choose“that better part,” and gain that true knowl-
edge that cannot be taken away.  There is much
to learn in the present for those who will avail
themselves of the grand opportunities which are
now open to them, and also much to be achieved.
There will be abundant material, too, in the events
now transpiring, to make history and biography
replete with thrilling incident and interest.  There
is no monotony in Mormonism, there are always
new occurrences, new scenes, new phases to make
it interesting, and add to its importance as a
religious system and social topic.  The injustice
shown to the people of Utah, after their having
settled upon desert lands and made them habitable
and fruitful, must necessarily have a telling effect
upon the children and rising generation, for they
cannot help feeling and realizing the wrongs their
parents have suffered from that free government
which should have vouchsafed to them protection
and religious toleration, instead of which it has
encouraged and authorised encroachment upon
rights, civil and religious, even to disfranchise-
ment and cruel persecution.
   The report of the Utah Commission to the
Secretary of the Interior,and the extreme measures
these men have suggested to the general govern-
ment, are too much even for many bitter opponents
of the Latter-day Saints to countenance and
approve.
   The judges and their satellites, who administer
and enforce the proscriptive laws, made to punish
men who have chosen the better part, that leads
to exaltation and endless lives, are so blinded by
bigotry and the love of greed that they cannot see
to pluck the beam from their own eyes, but prob-
ing with instruments of keenest quality to discover
the mote in the eye of any true “Mormon.”  The
words of the Savior in regard to the beam may,
with all consistency, be applied to the terrible
and crying social evils that exist in all the great
cities of the world, and indeed throughout
Chirstendom; while here in Utah a few have
accepted a higher and better form of marriage,one
that tends to social purity and the elevation of the
human race, and these citizens cry aloud against
any little mote,which,compared to the practices and
habits of so-called enlightened society, may well
be reckoned as a mote to the beam.  The noble
and heroic examples of many whose lot it has
been to stand before the courts and receive sen-
tence, has won for them the admiration of all who
recognize true manliness.  And there can be no
doubt as to the result of such conduct upon the
youth of Zion.  It will tend to strengthen the
weak and give courage to the indifferent, and
prove beyond a fear of contradiction, to the hon-
est and sincere lovers of truth, that there is an in-
herent power in the institutions of the Church
that enables its followers to rejoice in tribulation,
and through suffering to be made strong, that
thereby they may attain to the same glory and
blessings as Abraham, having been tried like un-
to him and the Saints in all ages.


[Column 1]
	In Memoriam
	Died, in this city, Tuesday, at 2 p.m., Novem-
ber 10th, Mrs. Phoebe Whittemore Woodruff, wife
of the Apostle Wilford Woodruff, President of
the Quorum of the Twelve. Sister Woodruff's
death was sudden, although she had been suffer-
ing from the effects of a fall, which occurred
about four weeks previous, and she had been fail-
ing somewhat in health for the past few months.
The absence of her husband, on account of the
persecution now raging against this people, calls

[Column 2]
out the sympathies of all their friends, and
especially because of their advanced age and the
many years they had spent together.
	In many respects Sister Woodruff was a re-
markable woman. She was strong-minded in the
best sense of the word, and her integrity to the
Gospel could ssarcely be surpassed; she had en-
dured much privation and hardship that her
husband might fill his mission among the nations
without murmur or complaint. Twice she accom-
panied her husband abroad upon missions; once
to the Fox Islands, and to England. She has
ever been an earnest and energetic worker among
the sisters in the organizations of the Relief So-
ciety and the Associations, and has filled several
honorable positions. She was chosen President
of the Relief Society in the Fourteenth Ward at
the time of its organization in the spring of 1857,
by Bishop Hoagland, and held the position until
the move south, resigning after her return, on
account of increased family cares. Sister Wood-
ruff was one of the presiding officers of the
General Retrenchment meetings, that are held
semi-monthly in this city in the interest of women's
associations and advancement. She has traveled 
extensively in the Territory with her husband and
the sisters, exhorting and instructing the sisters in
their duties in the organizations, and in the various 
spiritual and practical labors, in which woman's
mission upon earth consists. Sister Woodruff
was a woman wise in counsel, and one that ex-
celled in judgement. When the Deseret Hospital
Association was organized, she was chosen one
of the Board of Directors, which position she
held until her death. She was well versed in the
Scriptures and in Church history, and gifted in 
faith and prayer, religious in her nature and
characteristically Puritanic in her attributes,
domestic habits and conduct.
	At the Woman's Mass Meeting in the Salt Lake
Theatre, Nov. 16th, 1878, Sister Woodruff de-
livered a powerful extempore address on the
woman's side of the "Mormon" Question, in fact
her whole life, since she received the Gospel, has
been devoted to her faith, and she has abundantly
proved her zeal and devotion by her labors, both
public and private.
	Sister Woodruff was born in Scarboro, Maine,
March 8th, 1807. Her parents were of English de-
scent; her maiden name was Carter, and on her
mother's side Fabyan. In 1834 she embraced
the Gospel, and about a year after went to Kirt-
land, Ohio. Her parents and friends were much
grieved at her leaving them, and her mother re-
marked she would much rather bury her, and
when she was about leaving said to her, in the
most impressive manner, "Phoebe, will you come
back to me if you find Mormonism is false?"
And in the most affectionate manner the daughter
answered thrice repeated, "Yes, mother, I will!"
and her mother knew that she would keep her
promise. When all her preparations were made
she dared not trust herself to say "goodbye," but
wrote her farewell to each, "then ran down stairs
and jumped into the carriage," and drove away
from the beloved home of her childhood, alone in 
the world, for the love of the truth and for the
sake of uniting herself with the Saints of God.
	After her arrival in Kirtland, Miss Carter, as
she was then called, became acquainted with
Wilford Woodruff, whom she subsequently
married in 1836, and was the mother of nine
children, four of them now living; one son, Wil-
ford Woodruff Jun., and three daughters. Bro.
and Sister Woodruff came to the valley in 1850,
he having been called from Winter Quarters on a
mission to the Eastern States, whither his wife
accompanied him, after his return from the valley
with the pioneers.
	Sister Woodruff has left on record some very
powerful testimonies to the truth of the Latter-
day work, and of Joseph Smith, as a prophet, seer,
and revelator.


The writer was personally acquainted with Sis-
ter Phoebe W. Woodruff since the sojourn of the
Saints in Winter Quarters, and always found her
a true friend, a woman whose word was sacred,
true in every place and faithful to duty at all
times, a mother in Israel in very deed, firm and
unflinching in the hour of trial, patient and un-
complaining in adversity, and always a comfort
and strength to her family, and all with whom she
was associated.
	Her funeral was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Thursday, Nov. 12, at one p.m.
where she had so often addressed the sisters in
their meetings. Beautiful flowers in profusion
were laid upon her coffin also a sheaf of wheat,
fully ripe, emblematic of her life and works. The
coffin was borne from her home to the Hall by
members of the family and near friends, followed
by the mourners, snme of the Apostles and
Board of Directors of the Deseret Hospital and
the Relief Society of the ward, in regular proces-
sion.
	The funeral services were conducted by Bishop
Thomas Taylor, and the singing, which was very
touching, was rendered by the ward choir.
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered an eloquent prayer,
and brief speeches were made by Apostles H. J.
Grant, J. H. Smith, Bishop L. D. Young, Prest. A.
O. Smoot, and Apostles J. W. Taylor and F. D.
Richards and the Bishop, each one testifying
to her integrity, faith and good works, and relating,
in some instances, incidents in her life and
character. The last hymn, "Come to me," was
very affectively rendered, and the benediction pro-
nounced by Patriarch John Smith. Thus after a
long and useful life, she has passed to her rest in
the full hope of a glorious resurrection beyond 
the grave. "Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     MR. GEO. H. SCOTT, Local Agent for the
Geneva, New York, Nurseries, has arrived in the
city for the purpose of soliciting orders for fruit
trees and ornamental trees, shrubbery, etc., etc.,
for spring delivery of 1886. The Geneva nurseries
have been doing business in the northwest for
many years past, viz.: the Territories of Montana,
Dakota, Utah, etc., etc.  A large shipment will
be made here this fall.  The trees shipped here
to this section have been first class in every
respect, and in most cases are doing well, as the
testimonials published will show, and these few
represent the opinions of a great many people,
for the shipments have been large here for a num-
ber of years past.  Mr. Scott will take orders
principally for ornamental trees, shrubbery, plants,
etc., etc.  He makes this work a specialty.  Office
Central Block, West Temple. 
	SISTERS Minerva W. Snow and Elizabeth
Howard made a tour through parts of Emery
Co. in the month of October, via. the D. & R. G.
Railway.  They arrived in Price on Thursday
evening, Oct. 22nd, and went on to Huntington,
Friday, and held a general meeting there in the
afternoon, which was well attended; Bishops and
other brethren were present, as well as sisters.
Saturday they went over to Castle Dale, accom-
panied by Sister Ann Pulsipher, Coun. to Sister
Annie Larsen, Prest. of the Relief Society in that
Stake.  Here they were joined by the President
who resides in that place, remained there over
Sunday, attended the Sabbath meetings, and on
Monday held three meetings, one with each or-
ganization.  On Tuesday the sisters went over to
Moab and held a general meeting; then went on
to Feron, where they held three meetings, and
then to Orangeville, where they also held meetings,
and from there to Wilsonville, where they met
with the Relief Society and organized a Primary
Association.  From there they returned to Hunt-


ington, where they held three meetings, and came,
on as far as Price, where they stopped again and
organized the children in a Primary Association
in the forenoon, and in the afternoon attended a
meeting for the organization of a Relief Society
in that ward. In journeying through the Stake,
the sisters met with the utmost kindness from
Bishops, and many kind friends and acquaintances,
and were everywhere most hospitably entertained,
and enjoyed the trip very much indeed; also the
society of those with whom they traveled through
the settlements, and all whom they came in con-
tact with, and no doubt the visit of the sisters
will be productive of great good to the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. and Primary Associations, as it is
gratifying to get such practical instruction, as well
as spiritual, as can only be given verbally from
those who have had years of experience in teach-
iug and advising others.


[Column 1]
	REASONING ON MORMONISM. 
			   --------
 The Latter-day Saints are the friends of man-
kind.  They love virtue, good order, morality,and
everything that will bring about a reform temporal-
ly and spiritually; this they endorse with all their
energy and good will. They love to do God’s
bidding and keep His holy commandments. In
all ages of the world God has chosen individuals
here on this earth to declare His word and pur-
poses concerning the inhabitants thereon.
  He has given a commandment to the Elders of
this Church, to go into all the world, to every
nation, tongue and people, and preach the Gospel;
“He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved,
but he that believeth not shall be damned,” and
the signs shall follow them that believe. If the
signs follow the believer, then they have obeyed
the true Gospel. This is one proof they have,
for the same signs follow the Latter-day Saints as
the Former Day Saints.
  Another proof of the validity of this Gospel is
the knowledge of the true God that has been re-
vealed, which gives to His people eternal life.
St. John, 17th chapter, 3rd verse, "And this is
life eternal, that they might know Thee, the only
true God, and Jesus. Christ, whom Thou hast
sent.” And again, the Savior saith, “No one
knoweth the Son except the Father revealeth
Him. The Father said to Joseph Smith the
Prophet, “This is my beloved Son, hear ye Him.”
As the Father and Son stood before him, Joseph
Smith saw the only true God, whom the Latter-
day Saints worship, also His Son. I will here
give a description of these two personages in the
language of Joseph Smith, Book of Covenants,
Section 130, 22nd verse:
 “The Father has a body of flesh and bones, as
tangible as man’s; the Son also.” Then He is a
material being? And this is according to the
Bible teaching. Genesis, 26th verse, “And God
said, Let us make man in our own image after our
own likeness.” The Savior tried to impress upon
the minds of His disciples that he that saw Him
saw the Father, and said He was in the express
image of the Father. Probably they had a vague
idea of God as they worshiped idols then; as now
an imaginary god is worshiped—an immaterial
substance he is composed of. If I am conversing
with a friend,and they remind me of something of
not much importance, I reply, “It is quite immate-
rial to me.” Do they not understand this invisible,
incomprehensible being as a phantom,of not much
importance, it would be immaterial to take notice
of his immaterial majesty, if so, we can account
for the falling away from justice, and the non-
enactment of good and wholesome laws, and
for the great amount of crime that goes un-
punished.
  Out here in Utah we have a standing post of
Government soldiers. They are paid by “Uncle
Sam” to be idle, get drunk and disturb the peace;
there is no manner of use for them here. The

[Column 2]
only thing that is brought to notice here is poly-
gamy; our best busines men, with good sound
judgment, doing business in a straightforward,
honorable way, showing good, honorable treat-
ment to their households, courtesy and respect to
the opposite sex, are tried for good conduct. No
lady in Utah need fear an insult from these most
honorable gentlemen, who are the peers of those
who handle the proscriptive laws to persecute time-
honored, law-abiding citizens, and let rascals go
free, themselves to boot, if  justice was meted out;
sent here to break up an upright community, who
are trying to live by their hard-earned industry,
after struggling through privation and hardships,
and through many years of toil, have gathered a
small annuity to support their dependent families;
it is now wrenched from them; by whom?  An
official, that has not wiggled his little toe to earn
one dime of what he takes from his honest peer,
and thrusts him out of society, and deprives him of
his usefulness and his family of that support, that
they  are  entitled  to  receive.  I  say give
them the length of the rope and they will hang
themselves. Shame on such doings! What
wonderful logic, what great oratory, and what
swelling of words it takes to confirm in a sensible
mind where that great Edmunds law-abiding,
constitutional crime comes in. One would think,
naturally, that wise heads were getting scarce.
There must be a lack of weight in the brain.
There is no force in the law to quell. mob violence,
or put down secret society outbreaks; ruin is on
the verge of time.
  Ye officers of state, look well to home affairs;
let your eyes rest on sin of the blackest hue at
your own doors. Time is short, do not waste it
on Utah.  First make clean the inside of the
platter, and the Latter-day Saints will clean both
sides. “Of little meddling comes great ease."
				   MARY ANN M. PRATT.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		LAIE, Oahu, H. I., Oct. 28th, 1885.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Since I wrote last, Sister Kaahanui Kaleohano,
one of our best Hawaiian sisters, prominently con-
nected, for many years, with the Relief Society of
these Islands, and mother to Sister Lucy Kahaule-
lio Ioane, now in Salt Lake City, has been called
to her last rest from mortal ills. She was a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint up to her last moment on
earth, and was for a long time a counselor to the
President of the Relief Society of the Islands,
but her failing health made it difficult for her to
perform the duties of that position, and at last
April Conference she was released from that call-
ing, and chosen for a counselor to the President
of the Laie Society, where her duties would be
more local and lighter, without materially lessen-
ing the value of her services to the cause.
	She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in July, 1851, being baptized by Prest.
Georgo Q. Cannon. She was then about fifteen
years of age, having been born July 2nd, 1836, and
died on September 4th ult., of dropsy, after a
severe and lingering illness of several months,
which she bore with remarkable cheerfulness and
fortitude, putting her trust in the Lord, by which
she was relieved from all fears or anxiety respect-
ing the final change, that for weeks she calmly
anticipated. She was much beloved by all the
Saints at Laie, and by all that knew her, as was
fully attested by the entire colony, who gathered
to pay their last respects to her remains, shedding
many tears for her departure.
	The semi-annual conference of the Improve-
ment Associations was held at this place, on
October 2nd. There was a goodly attendance,
and the exercises were creditably performed, show-
ing commendable improvement in the young peo-
ple, and that an upward impetus has been given


to these interesting organizations of late by the
energy of the presiding officers.
	One of the interesting features of the conference
was the reading of the manuscript newspapers,
one being published by ladies, and another by the
gentlemen. In the ladies', entitled Ka Olino O
Na Mauna—The Splendor of the Mountains—
this being the third number, there were short,
spicy articles under the heading of "Dewdrops,"
"Provoking Mirth," "Means for Recuperating the
Race," "Foundations of Poverty and Real Wealth,"
"The Crown," "Catching the Monkey," a story
with a moral, "The Rose," "Gathering to the
Mountains," "The Famine for the Word of God."
"Beautiful Zion" (poetry), all of which, of course,
were written in the Hawaiian language, and for
the most part unintelligible to me, but, as I am in
formed, will compare favorably with like composi-
tions from among the young people at home, and
from the deep interest awakened in the congrega-
tion by the reading of these essays, I am satisfied
they must have possessed some intrinsic merit.
	The Conference of the Relief Society was held
on the 3rd, it being well represented from all the
Islands.  The reports showed that the different
branches were mostly in good working order, and
alive to the welfare of the widow and orphan, the
sick and destitute, and to the higher duties of
guiding and strengthening the morals and religious
proclivities of the mothers, daughters and children
of the Church, while some few were slack, being
neglected by those who were placed in charge.
Sister E. Farr was again sustained as general
President, with Sisters Wilcox Kalua Coles and
Kaheana Kealakaihonui, as Counselors.  Sister
Nalia Kekauoha was appointed First Counselor to
the President of the Laie Society, in the place of
Sister Kaahanui Kaleohano, deceased.
	Interesting and encouraging remarks were
made by several of the sisters, and all the officers
were unanimously sustained, and the financial
and other reports approved.
	On the 4th the General Semi-annual Conference
convened at 10 a.m., in the large new meeting
house, and continued, with the ordinary intermis-
ions, until the evening of the 6th.  This confer-
ence is said to be remarkable for the number of
people in attendance, and for the unremitting and
increasing interest manifested by all from begin-
ing to end.  The addresses of the Elders, both
foreign and native, were spirited and instructive,
as evinced by their almost magic effects upon the
congregation.  There seemed to be a united and
true Christian feeling existing among the Saints.
The hospitality of this people is remarkable.  In
this respect they are not surpassed, if equaled, by
the Saints in Zion, who are everywhere noted for
their benevolence, generosity and liberality, and,
withal, their patience, forbearance, and long-suffer-
ing.  I find many qualities among these poor
people to be admired, although there is much in
the conditton of society here that is deplorable, as
elsewhere, among more highly civilized people.
	Some few days previous to the conference the
Elders came in from their several fields of labor,
and remained on the plantation until the 17th inst.,
when they again took their departure to the va-
rious islands, and to their labors in the ministry
for the ensuing six months.  During the visit of
the Elders our little society was quite lively, the
brethren enjoying each other's company very
much after their separation.  We seem quite de-
serted now, since our number has become so few,
but from recent reports from home, we are looking
forward to the arrival of several new missionaries
soon. 
	The Saints have purchased a set of brass in-
struments, at a cost of nearly $400, and now, un-
der the tuition of Bro. Isaac Fox, of Lehi, Utah
Co., a selection of young men are making rapid
progress in the art of making music upon them,
and Laie will soon be favored with an efficient
brass band.  The natives take to music much a 

[Column 2]
they do to water—that is, like ducks, or amphibi-
ous animals, or like fish themselves.
	Some twenty-six acres of sugar cane has been
planted this summer, and the crops are looking
well.  This season has been very favorable for
crops. Stock looks well, feed being abundant on
account of copious rains.
	Praying for the welfare of Zion, and the loved
ones at home, I am, with love,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE. 
CASCADE LOCKS, OREGON, Nov. 8th, 1885.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:
     My ever Blessed Sister.—If I should try I
could not describe how refreshing your kind letter
was away here, although I am surrounded with
dear ones.
     In this romantic place of nature's wild fastnesses
—it would seem reaching "up to nature's God."
In front of the house the rapids commence.  The
grand old Columbia, with silent majesty, like time,
"never reutrns to grind a mill."  Across the river
is Washington Territory.  The banks, as well as
the mountains beyond, are covered with evergreen
—Oregon Fir it is called.  There are little lakes
close to the base of the mountain opposite, manu-
facturing clouds that rise so white and beautiful;
the down stream wind and mountain currents of
air, sometimes causes them to cross each other,
while the green trees below make a most charm-
ing picture; above the clouds are grand, this
morning, especially, as the struggling sun rays fell
in spots at the summit, they gave it a grandeur
truly sublime.
     After twelve days of rain—for twenty-four
hours it had not ceased to come straight down—
this is winter weather here.  The old settlers say
the country is improving, but I often think there is
no place like home, although my duty called me
here, and I am always happy and contented in the
fulfillment of duty.  How lonely it is here, you can
only imagine; comfortable and luxurious in doors,
with books, papers and music, but all these grow
monotonous, in sickness in particular.	*	*
     I intended to have been in the Logan Temple
and part of the time in the city this winter, but
things come so unlooked for.  I am thankful the
Deseret Hospital is getting along as well as it is;
I was so in hopes to have done something to
benefit the institution while in Logan, but fate
seems to control us often contrary to our own
calculations, but I shall try to do the best I can
always.  My health is improving some; the rheuma-
tism is not so bad, although the damp weather is
not so very pleasant; I have to be so careful.
     The lack of appropriation for River and Harbor
improvements by Congress this last year, is a
detriment here.  It will take about four years to
complete the work here if liberally appropriated
for by Congress.
     Dear sister, I often think of the pleasant times
we have had, as neighbors, and in visits, meetings,
etc.; I trust we may yet have many more.  Please
remember me kindly to those across the water,
your own dear self, and the loved ones in Salt
Lake.	*	*	*	*	*	God bless
our dear loved ones, wherever they are—a mother's
daily and most humble petition.
     You have still a busy life in doing good.  I 
ever feel to pray for you all, my dear sisters—
E. R. S. Smith, M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor—yes,
all that are trying to do good, my heart is with you,
especially when you meet in the Fourteenth Ward
meeting; the faces of the loved ones are ever be-
fore me; I long for their sweet company, the
loving shake of the hand.  I had no thought of
being thus separated when I saw you last, but it
is all right, we learn new lessons that will be for

[column 2]
our good, for we do trust in Father, and acknowl-
edge His hand in all things.
     God bless you, my precious sister.  I often say
in my heart, "The duties you perform are many,"
but there is One who knows.  Sweet peace, health,
strength and wisdom ever be yours, is a loving
sister's daily wish, and all your blessings and
promises, if faithful, will surely be realized, and
they are many, so never be discouraged.
     Love to dear Sister Atwood, Sister Grant and
Goddard, Sister Lydia Ann Wells and the others."
	Your sister in the everlasting covenant,
							Z. D. H. Y.


PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]

	Sister Sessions speaks of many times of re-
freshing little meetings and mentions many
names of sisters who have since passed behind
the vail that were associated in these meetings
—Louisa Beamen, Vilate Kimball, Sister
Robert Pearce and Sister Leonora Taylor and
Sister Cutler.  In several places in her diary
she refers to blessings pronounced upon the
heads of the sisters that have since come to
pass.
	On Saturday, the 15th of June, 1847, as re-
corded in her journal, having previously made
all needful preparations, Sister Sessions, with
her husband and family, left Winter Quarters
to come to "the mountains," as she terms it.
It was just ten years on that very day since
they left their fireside and home in the State
of Maine to come to the gathering place of the
Saints.  Sister Sessions says, "I drove one
wagon with a four ox team; we went only four
miles the first day, and the next day went on
fifteen miles further; there are fifty-one wagons
with us; third day we travel seven miles, there
was a heavy thunder shower, but we reach the
camp on the Horn River."  Then she des-
cribes the crossing of the river by this large
company of heavily loaded wagons, the various
inconveniences, the sinking of the raft at one
time wetting the meat and grain, the unload-
ing, drying the provisions, etc.  There are
many of us who remember similar occurences
in our own experience on that journey, no
doubt, and wonder, perhaps, as I often do, how
we endured it all so bravely.
	Friday, the 11th, she says, "Fifty-five more
wagons came up, and all crossed the Horn
River safely.  Patriarch John Smith came up
to the company on the 12th, and brought word
that Sister Mary Ann Pratt had arrived at
Winter Quarters.  Bro. Parley P. Pratt went
back from the camp to see her."  On the 17th
she says Bro. Pratt returned and Sister Eliza
R. Snow and a great many others came up.
Here she mentions Bro. John Taylor coming.
"Tuesday, the 15th, the brethren are called
together to organize."  She mentions the sis-
ters "hulling corn,"  and making small cheeses.
The 17th and 18th, the brethren keep coming,
and mentions the marshall going back for the
cannon.  "On the 19th we leave camp at 12
o' clock and travel fifteen miles to the Platte
River, and on Tuesday, the 22nd, the cannon,
Nauvoo Temple bell and the skiff having
arrived a 8 o'clock in the morning, the organ-
ized company moved on, traveling five abreast,
the two cannons, Temple bell and skiff heading
the middle line; go fifteen miles and camp on
the prairie, near the Platte River.  24th move
on ten miles, and stop at 10 o'clock, waiting
for others to come up and have a meeting to
receive instruction.  25th, go two miles, and
camp with a company of Indian traders; Dr.
Bartlett was one of the company.  They had
been to Pawnee.  26th, go twenty miles, and
camp on Beaver Creek.  Sunday, June 27th,
we had a public meeting for the whole camp."
Sister Sessions also writes of a meeting of the


[Column 1]
sisters later in the day, and that her grand-
daughter. Martha Ann, asked to have a little
meeting with Martha Van Cott, and that the
gift of tongues was given them. 28th, the
men were called out to drill, and she speaks of
the bell ringing for prayers throughout the
camp night and morning. "At 1 o'clock our
company moved on, the cannon in the rear;
Parley's division go in the rear this week. 29th,
we travel ten miles, and camp on the Loupe
Fork of the Platte River; we passed the Pawnee
village; it had been burnt recently by the Sioux.
30th, we wait one hour for Smoot's company to
go on out of our way; go ten miles, when we
come up with the whole camp. The men go
out to find a safe place to cross. We passed
another Indian village to-day. July 1st we 
cross; Bro. Taylor's company go ahead, and
we travel about one mile after crossing the
river. July 2nd we go on twenty miles, and
camp on the prairie without wood or water,
but we had a heavy shower of rain with a great
deal of wind. July 3rd we go on sixteen miles,
and strike the pioneer trail near the Platte
River—Peregrine shot an antelope—Bro.
Sheets calls this Musquito Bend. We found
old wickiups to burn to cook our food by.
Sunday, the 4th, we rested and held a meeting.
The sisters had a meeting afterwards at Sister
Thompson's tent. Monday, the 5th, made a
bridge to cross the creek; we travel fifteen
miles; Parley's company go in front. We
traveled all day on the poineer's trail, and
camped on their camping ground; found a
guide board which marked 217 miles from
Winter Quarters, but the way we have come
it is 190 miles. Tuesday, the 6th, we went on
eighteen miles, and camped on the bank of a
stream from the Platte, where Indians had
been camping; some of us burnt the wickiups
for wood, others waded the stream and brought
over wood on their backs. The camp did not 
all come up with us; Smoot's company have
not come, and Grant's company have not been
heard from since Monday. Go fifteen miles
Wednesday, and camp where the pioneers did;
found another guide-board, which said they
had killed eleven buffaloes before the 2nd of
May. Thursday move on a little farther, and
come on the pioneer's camp again; found
another guide-board, and Peregrine and Bro. 
Pratt saw two horses; Bro. Pratt and Bro Tay-
lor caught them; (supposed they had been lost
by the pioneers). The sloughs are so bad we
cannot follow the trail of the pioneers. Friday
night we camp on the Platte River. Saturday
a party from the camp went out to hunt, and
Sunday morning sent back for a wagon to
bring in their game. We held a meeting, and
also a meeting of the sisters. The hunter re-
turned with 1,800 weight of buffalo meat.
Monday morning it was divided out among
the camp; we stopped, after going twelve miles,
to smoke the meat; the brethren went out to
an island to get wood. Bro. Spencer's com-
pany travel ahead this week; he is Captain
over the first hundred wagons. On the 13th
we go fifteen miles, and find the grass very
short; some of our men went hunting and killed
four buffaloes. In Grant's company, the cattle
broke out of the yard last night, killed a cow,
broke off several horns and broke a horse's leg;
they have to stop and recruit, etc. The 14th
we go on six miles, and stop for the rest of the
camp to come up; we've seen two herds of
buffalo to-day, and found a guide-board with a
letter in it, stating it is 360 miles from Winter
Quarters; we call it 284 by our calculations;
killed one buffalo, and divided it out in our 
fifty." Here she writes about oxen being sick,
and tells of the ways contrived to exchange
and to work one ox alone on the lead, etc. On
the 16th she speaks of having seen thousands
of buffalo, that some ran in among their
cattle, and one was shot, and three others
wounded.

[Column 2]
	So the journal goes on day after day, telling
of hardships, of the exertions made to get wood
to cook the food, of the wild game they kill
and divide, etc., of the cattle they have die,
and those that stray away, etc. On the 17th
she states they got word that Grant's company
had lost seventy-five head of cattle. Sunday,
the 18th, they get letters from the pioneers,
and they were read in the meeting; they were
left at the ferry which the pioneers had made.
On the 20th a meeting was called of four hun-
dred, and decided that five yoke of cattle must
be spared out of each hundred to send back to
assist Grant's company. A man was sent back
with them—Bro. Gusten.
	These items are only given in detail to show
how this second company from Winter Quarters
traveled. It being the first company after the
pioneers, and following on so soon after, makes
it of more consequence historically than those
companies traveling later.
	During the time of journeying, almost daily,
it seems from the records, there were children
born—one or more—and so far no deaths, ex-
cept the man that was shot at the Horn River.
Women were miraculously preserved under
these trying circumstances, and the greatest
faith seems to have been given to all, even the
children; indeed, the Spirit of the Lord was
poured out upon them insomuch that they re-
joiced continually.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

ORDERVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Our Relief Society has been in working-
order for the past ten years.  With Louise O.
Spencer as Prest. and Susannah S. Frackrell
and Clarrissa A. Hoyt as her Counselors; with
occasional changes of Secretary and Treasurer. 
Thongh not possessed of a great abundance
of this world's goods, we are still able to add
our mite towards building Temples, assisting
the poor, etc.
     We have this year succeeded in purchasing
a very suitable house, one large room below
and two rooms above, which gives us good
store room.  Our meetings are held regularly,
and a good spirit prevails.
     Occasionally we meet in social gatherings,
one of which took place on Thursday 29th ult,
that being the 49th birthday of Sister Susan-
nah S. Fackrell, her children wished to meet,
with many of her friends, at her new house,
not as a surprise party, but just to have a
good, sociable time.
     Accordingly, about one o'clock, a company
of about sixty persons met, and enjoyed
friendly greetings and a good dinner, after
which a hymn was sung, and the house dedi-
cated; Prest. T. Chamberlain offering the dedi-
catory prayer.
     The brethren being very much hurried with
their labors, then retired.
     After new arrivals were refreshed, the meet-
ing was given into the hands of Prest. L. C.
Spencer.  A hymn was sung, after which a
very impressive prayer was offered by Sister
Clarrissa A. Hoyt.
     Many strong testimonies were borne and
many comforting words spoken, with many
kind wishes for the welfare of Sister Fackrell.
     The meeting closed with singing and prayer,
when the company dispersed, all feeling that
we had had an enjoyable time.
     Praying that the Lord will preserve the
honest in the truth, and comfort and strenghten
all in the trials we may have to pass through,
we remain your sisters and co-workers in the
cause of truth.
     LOUISE C. SPENCER,
     SUSANNAH S. FACKRELL,
     CLARRISSA A. HOYT,
     LYDIA K. YOUNG, Treasurer,
    HANNAH E. HOYT, Secretary.

[column 2]
PRICE, CASTLE VALLEY, EMERY CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Hitherto we have had no organization in
our midst, and we know you would be pleased
to hear from us.  The health of the people is
good with one or two exceptions; and all are
feeling well in the principles of the Gospel.
     We were pleased to have a visit from our
beloved sisters, M. W. Snow and E. Howard,
from Salt Lake, also the Stake President, sis-
ter Annie Larsen and first Counselor, Sister
Ann Pulsipher, on the 3rd of this month when
the sisters were organized in a Relief Society
and they organized a Primary for the Children
for which we feel truly thankful having a de-
sire to be one with the rest of our sisters in
helping to carry out the commandments God
has given.  We have held two meetings which
were well attended.  The sisters expressed
themselves as willing to try and carry out the
instructions given by those who preside over
them. Hoping you will find space in your
valuable paper for this, our first attempt, and,
praying our Heavenly Father to bless us in
connection with the Relief Society in other
places and in all the world, that we may ac-
complish a good work, we remain
Respectfully,
S. G. COX, President,
PAULINE PACE,
KEZIAH EMPEY, Counselors,
ISABELLE BIRCH, Secretary,
EMMA MATHIES, Asst. Secretary,
SARAH LEIGH, Treasurer.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

     Strawberry Short-Cake.—Bake a rich paste in pie-plates.
Have six ready, In these spread stewed strawberries well
sweetened; lay one upon another, six deep. In winter,
use preserved or canned berries.

     Cocoanut Pie.—One cup of white sugar, butter size of
hen's egg, whites of three eggs, well beaten, one table-
spoonful of flour, three-quarters of a grated cocoanut, and
milk of cocoanut added last, or a tablespoonful of milk,
scant measure. Bake on pie-plates, lined with puff
paste.

     Mincemeat for Pies.—Three pounds of meat (after it is
boiled;) four pounds suet, three and one-half pounds
raisins, one and one-half pounds currants, one-half pound
dried cherries, three teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract of
Nutmeg, and mace to your taste. Four pints white wine,
one pint brandy, four pounds brown sugar.

     Mincemeat for Pies No 2.—Six cupfuls beef, twelve cup-
fuls apples, three cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls butter, two
pounds raisins, one quart cider, three tablespoonfuls cinna-
mon, two tablespoonfuls allspice, one tablespoonful of
Burnett's Extract of Nutmeg.

     Lemon Pie.—Two lemons, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls
of melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar.
Grate the rinds and add two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Ex-
tract of Lemon. Separate the yolks from the whites of
the eggs, and beat the yolks with half the sugar, all the
butter, rind and extract; pour in the crust and bake till the
pastry is done; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff
froth, add the rest of the sugar, put in on the pie smooth-
ly and bake in a quick oven one minute; this makes the
upper crust.

     Lemon Pie No. 2.—One egg, one lemon, one tablespoon-
ful of cornstarch, four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar; one
tablespoonful of melted butter; mix the corn starch with a
little water. Pour upon it a teacup of boiling water. Beat
the sugar and egg together, grate lemon, then add all to
corn starch. Bake with an undercrust. When done, beat
the white of one egg light, and one tablespoonful of pow-
dered sugar; put on top and brown in oven.

     Yankee Puffs. Two ounces of butter, three tablespoon-
fuls of sugar, three eggs (yolks and whites separate), three
teacups of milk, three teacups of flour, one saltspoonful of
salt, one and a half teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract of
Vanilla. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and
well-beaten yolks, then the milk, which should be salted


dredge in the flour by degrees, and when these are well
mixed, add the flavoring and whites of eggs, previously
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in well-buttered teacups,
about fifteen or twenty minutes, till of a light brown. As
these puffs rise very much, the cups must not be filled.
Serve as soon as done with sweet sauce.

	Plum Pudding.—Take three-quarters of a pound of
chopped suet, three-quarters of a pound of stoned raisins,
three-quarters of a pound of currants, quarter of a pound
of citron, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, three-quarters
of a pound of bread crumbs, two apples, cut into small
dice, and a tablespoonful of Burnett's Extract of Lemon;
mix the whole in a basin with three teaspoonfuls of
Burnett's Extract of Cloves, a pinch of salt, six eggs, and
a half a gill of rum or brandy. Butter a pudding mould,
fill it with the mixture, and tie a cloth over the top. Place
a plate at the bottom of a kettle, which is three parts full
of boiling water. Put the pudding in, and boil for four
hours, keeping the pot replenished with boiling water.
Turn out the pudding on a hot dish; sprinkle with sugar.
Pour over half a pint of warm rum or brandy; light it when
putting on the table. Serve with German sauce.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	At a meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Central Ward,
Graham Co., Arizona, a vote was taken and carried unani-
mously, that we draft some Resolutions of condolence to
the memory of Sister Emma Irene Cluff, daughter of
Joseph and Phebe E. Cluff, who departed this life July 1st,
1885, aged sixteen years and six months.
	Whereas, She was loved and respected by all her asso-
ciates, also a faithful member of the Association, a willing
worker at all times, and devoted to the cause of truth and
righteousness, every member of the Association mourns
her loss greatly, for she was alive to her duties whenever
called upon to perform any of the labors of the Associa
tion.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved parent-
and relatives in the loss of their dear one, not, however,
without the consoling reflection that she will come forth in
the morning of the first resurrection.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with the bereaved
relatives and friends of the deceased, and pray that the
Heavenly Comforter may enable them to bear this uncom-
plainingly.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved family, that another be retained in the Associa-
tion, and that a third be sent to the EXPONENT for publica-
tion.					[Committee]
					PRESIDENT AND COUNSELORS,
					SARAH E. CLUFF,
					SARAH A. YOUNG,
					ALPHRETTA R. CLUFF.

		We must be prepared to meet her,
			And our loved ones who are there—
		There, there is no sin nor sorrow
			In that land so bright and fair.

		But oh, this world is full of sorrow—
			Nothing here but bitter woe;
		But we have a work to finish
			Here on earth, before we go.


The following patents were issued to women
during the week ending Oct. 27, 1885:
	Carrie C. Boyd, Fruitport, Mich., Handle
for Package-Carriers.
	Sarah A. Elliott, Norfolk, Va., Flower-
Frame.
	Emma E. Hodson, Chicago, Ill., Bustle.
	Amelia R. Lane, Brooklyn, N. Y., Elastic
Button-hole Attachment for Garment.
	Lilly B. Tubbs, Philadelphia. Pa., Cutoff for
Hydraulic and other engines.
	Catherine Whitney, Lawrence, Kansas,
Mangle.


Of all injustice that is the greatest which
goes under the name of law; and of all sorts
of tyranny, the forcing of the letter of the
law against the equity, is the most insupporta-
ble,—L'Estrange.


[Column 1]
	Beauty if a fairy; sometimes she hides herself
in a flower-cup, or under a leaf, or creeps into
the old ivy, and plays hide-and-seek with the
sunbeams, or haunts some ruined spot, or
laughs out of a bright young face.—G. A. 
Sala. 

TESTIMONIALS. 
COALVILLE, UTAH, Oct. 12, 1885.

GEO. II SCOTT ESQ., 
	Salt Lake City, Utah,
		Agent Geneva Nurseries, 
			Geneva, New York:

	Dear Sir:—In regard to the trees, shrubs,
plants, etc., I received from your nursery dur-
ing the spring of 1885, I can say that every
one has grown, and give promise of doing well,
notwithstanding it was very late in the season
when I planted them. I believe the nursery
stock delivered by this firm is first class in
every respect, and I take great pleasure in
giving the Geneva Nurseries my most hearty
endorsement as a most reliable firm in every
respect. Their hardy Russian apples—the
“Iron Clads”—will certainly stand our climate. 
						W.W. Cluff.

PRESIDING BISHOP'S OFFICE, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	
				June	12,1885.

Mr. J. A. GOOD[-]UE,
	General Western Agent,
		Geneva Nurseries, N. Y.,
			Salt Lake City, Utah: 

	Dear Sir.—In the absence of my father,
from whom I have received your favor of the
22nd ult., I take pleasure in saying for him 
that the trees and shrubs ordered from your
house reached us in excellent condition, were
exactly according to the bill, and are so far
doing well, almost without exception. As to 
how they will succeed in the somewhat unfavor-
able spot where we are located, we cannot of
course speak with any certainty; but the fact
that they have lived at all in a soil so cold
and damp, with occasional submergings fol-
lowed by drought, indicates their strong healthy
condition at the time of planting or setting
out. I shall be pleased to inform you later as
to their much-hoped for growth and well-doing.
			Respectfully yours,
					JOHN Q. CANNON.

THIS PAPER can be found on the 
tables of the
N. D. C. READING ROOM,
718 Washington St., BOSTON, MASS.
	DR. JAMES A. BLISS is duly authorized by
us to receive subscriptions and to make con-
tracts for advertising at our regular rates.
	The Reading Room is open daily to the
public (except Sundays) from 9 a. m. to 5 p. 
m.

F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5.000 Now in Use in Utah
[written rotated left 90 degrees]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
[written rotated right 90 degrees]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years. 
[written normally again, underneath the image of a sewing machine, which is between the two previous stanzas of sideways text]
Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street, 	Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY, 
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And and elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1885.	No. 13.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	"GOD BLESS YOU!"

THE SECOND WIFE TO HER HUSBAND IN PRISON.

Dear Friend, when last, a little space,
Yourself and I stood face to face,
My heart was full of fear and pain.
My eyes o'erflowed with bitter rain—
You laid your hands upon my head
And low and fervently you said.
	"God bless you!"

Oh, sweet and low the words did flow, 
As summer breezes gently blow
But broad as earth, deep as the sea,
And high as heaven they were to me;
As pure as truth, as sweet as love—
I know they live and shine above—
	"God bless you!"

And God will bless me for your sake,
My grief and pain will wings betake,
And I in grace and truth shall grow,
Shall serve Him faithfully below,
And side by side with you shall rise
To greet our Savior in the skies—
	"God bless you!"

O servant of the living God,
Pursuing now the ways He trod.
Approaching step by step the door
Through which to share His throne and power,
Accept from me this echo sweet,
As I your precious words repeat—
	"God bless you!"

					LU DALTON.


<l “never="" more="" will;l="" .adore="" thee’fli.="" 3="" a="" ifldhstq="" c="" 'h1="" o'er="" and="" i="" rcat="" jjiem="" slowly.="" words="" of="" loneliness="" grief,="" daric’desalr="" t'dterwsecok="" wkin="" weaning.="" ui="" ,0.="" 1="" b="" .ul’a="" jeep,wfithing.,nc.="" ,r="" coula="" see'thy="" tom="" heart="" bleeding.="" 9tfo,="">	HOPE ON.

Hope on! do not despair,
Hyperion did its errand well.

TO ONE WHO WROTE "FAREWELL TO LOVE."

"Never more will I adore thee"
	O'er and o'er I read them slowly,
Words of loneliness and grief,
	Of dark despair and bitter woe.

In those words of bitter meaning
	I could see the soul's deep writhing,
I could see thy torn heart bleeding,
	Crushed with its despair and grieving.

Other hearts than thine have beaten
	With a love as warm and true,
Other hearts than thine lie riven,
	Bereft of all their warmth and glow.

And many a heart, were it laid bare
	To the cold world's cruel gaze,
Would show a scar deep hidden there,
Which time could never more efface.

But yet, hope on my friend, hope on!
	Let thy soul be not bowed down,
Remember that the darkest hour
	Is just before the early morn.
Keep thy mind a priceless jewel,
	Far above reproach or shame
Let thine aim be high and truthful,
	And from despondency refrain.

And should the fickle goddess love,
	Still coldly ever turn from thee,
Calm thou thyself, seek help above.
Accept thy fate as God's decree.


[Column 1]
IS THERE ANYTHING WOMEN CAN 
DO IN THE PRESENT EMERGENCY?

	At this peculiar time, when injustice and wrongs
of many kinds are inflicted upon this people, and
when women and children are compelled to bear
a large share thereof, it seems to me that a correct
understanding of our situation should be ascer-
tained if possible, in order that we may be pre-
pared to meet these constantly recurring circum-
stances intelligently.  We often intuitively recog-
nize that we are wronged, yet in many instances
it would be impossible to make a full explanation
of the wrongs done to us, and we as often find our-
selves powerless to prevent their repetition.  Our
present situation, however, is so plain and unmis-
takable, and the outrages committed by our perse-
cutors are so apparent, that we need ask no question
in relation thereto, but it would be well to ask our-
selves where is the remedy, and is it in our power
to apply it?  If we were viewing this subject
from a standpoint other than a religious one, we
should be compelled to reason differently, but the
onslaught that is being made upon us at the pres-
ent time, as well as the persecutions we have en-
dured in the past, have been directed against us
solely on account of our religion.  If we would 
only yield our religious faith and practices, and,
as President Cleveland expressed himself to the
late delegation, who were sent to represent the
true situation here, Become as they are, there would
be no further collision, no arrests, no convictions,
no fines, no imprisonments, but everything would
run smoothly along, for I believe the old adage
to be correct, "That the Devil takes care of his 
own."
	The practice of plural marriage by us we know 
to be in perfect harmony with the laws which
govern our earthly being, and consequently the
very opposite to that immorality which is charged
against us, and we defy the philosophical world
to prove to the contrary, while its social influence
is so far superior to that which grows out of the
monogamic relations, that it should never be 
named in the same connection; and viewed relig-
iously, its tendency is elevating in the highest de-
gree.  I know that many of my sisters in the out-
side world will take issue with me upon this point,
but let them remember that they can only reason
upon this subject theoretically, while I speak from
a long experience both with myself and others,
and I know whereof I speak.  If I might be al-
lowed to assume the role of prophetess I would
predict that before many decades pass away the
legislators of this nation will enact laws in favor
of plural marriage, instead of passing cruel meas-
ures against its practice, for they will then have
recognized its superiority.
	To establish the true order of God even in rela-
tion to any one principle has always met with the
most direct opposition, and has required courage
of the most heroic character to maintain; while
on the other hand mankind have easily and al-
most imperceptibly drifted away from the true
order, and have always found outside of it enough
to fully gratify the baser passions.  The restraints
imposed by the former are not demanded by the
latter in hardly any degree, thus proving the truth
of the Savior's words,  "Strait is the gate and 
narrow is the way which leadeth to the lives, and
few enter there; while wide is the gate and broad
is the way that leadeth to the deaths, and many go
in thereat."
	God has given to us a dispensation of the Gos-

[Column 2]
pel which includes the law of celestial marriage,
and expects us to maintain it, no matter what may
be the sacrifice required.  Because of this practice,
our fathers, husbands, brothers and sons are
dragged before legalized mobs—wrongly called
courts of justice—and are there sentenced to fine
and imprisonment, while we and our children are
compelled to testify against them at the peril of
our liberty. At the same time, good and whole-
some law is declared, by these same courts, in-
sufficient to be used against our accusors and
persecutors, who are guilty of the foulest crimes
named in the decalogue, and by this means there
is turned loose upon socity the monogamic liber-
tine, "whose marrage vows," in the language of
Shakespeare, "are false as dicers oaths, who calls
virtue hypocrite and takes off the rose from the
fair forehead of an innocent love, and sets a blis-
ter there;" things, not men, who, to hide their own
dishonor and their victim's disgrace, will pay
liberally to procure child murder. These acts are
interspersed with frequent visits to haunts of vice
and shame, where the basest passions run riot
and unchecked. There are yet darker spots upon
the picture, that we will forebear to point out, for
some things are too horrid to exhibit to the light
of day, and were it not that eternal justice de-
mands it, we would prefer that they should be con-
signed to utter oblivion.  But the secret acts of
men must be revealed, and when they are we can
easily imagine with what vehemence these corrupt
beings will call upon the rocks and mountains to
fall upon them, and hide them from the face of
that Pure One, who will pronounce their eternal
doom.
	If men of God will only come down to the level
of these base creatures, we can then be spared the
painful necessity of testifying against them, for
they will then be no longer accused and convicted.
	To become like them seems to be the only alterna-
tive left short of a prison. In this extremity, my
dear sisters, what shall we do? Shall we counsel
our loved ones to surrender in any degree to
avoid imprisonment, and thus secure to ourselves
their society and thier care? Let me answer for
every true daughter of Zion throughout these
mountains, and I know the answer will find an
echo in every true woman's heart. Maintain the
law of God at every cost. Let prison doors close
upon our sires, our husbands, our brothers and
our sons, one by one, until God shall say it is
enough. In the meantime we will work and pray
and hope until those same prison doors are open,
and we have restored to us our dearest treasures,
honored of God, revered of man, and thrice
precious to us because of their unswerving integri-
ty. This is the only way whereby we can help to
preserve to future generation this higher law
which pertains to the eternal lives, ordained by
God to be bestowed upon His faithful Saints.
	While I am satisfied that God will do His part,
still if we can at all help ourselves is it not our im-
perative duty to do so?  Most certainly it is. In
this connection allow me to suggest a remedy.  We
have for years past been sustaining a class of indi-
viduals who were eager for Mormon ducats, and
who have professed great friendship for us, but at
the very first opportunity they have shown the
cloven foot, fraternizing and joining in with our
bitterest enemies in persecuting us to the utmost
of their power, using our money to sustain a foul
sheet that is published in our principle city, whose
venality and diabolism is too well know to need
any comment whatever. I am satisfied the time


has now arrived when the women of Israel, young
and old, should withdraw their patronage entirely
from this class, and teach their children to do the
same, and no longer furnish the means to cut our
own throats. Let us be willing to make sacrifice
of everything that is not an actual necessity,
rather than patronize our enemies to the extent of
a solitary dime, for while we continue our present
practice we shall find ourselves in bondage.
	I earnestly ask the sisters of the Relief Society,
Y. L. M. I. Associations and the Primaries to
teach this constantly, until the practice has entirely
ceased, and God will justify us in helping to re-
move one cause, at least, that has helped to pro-
duce the present result. In this connection let us
teach and practice the highest principles of purity,
and throw around our children such safeguards as
will effectually bar the enemy from polluting our
heritage. Then will the Lord smile again upon
His people, and restore their seers as at the be-
ginning, and by the mouths of prophets and apos-
tles declare His law unto His people.
							AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

		(Continued.)

	The letter, which I copied so freely, shows
what people can accomplish by putting their
trust in God, and walking in obedience to His
will and commands. The writer, in speaking
of "the poor, desponding Vilate," had refer-
ence to a time before they had heard "Mor-
monism," when, among other doctrines that
were being preached, was that of predestina-
tion, and she, not being able to feel a change
of heart, as others professed to have experi-
enced, finally came to the conclusion that she
was one of those doomed to be damned. Since
they were married they had lost a number of
their loved ones—two babes and her mother,
my father's parents and eldest brother, all but
his mother dying under his roof, and altogether
it had so worked upon her mind that she sank
into a state bordering on despair. They had
received pressing invitations to unite with dif-
ferent sects, and had passed through several
of their protracted meetings, and, as my father
said, he had "been many times upon the anxious
bench to seek relief from the bonds of sin and
death," but no relief could he find until the
meetings were passed by. They had come to
the conclusion to put themselves under the
care of the Baptist Church about three weeks
before they heard this Gospel preached by five
"Mormon" Elders, who came to their town from
Pennsylvania. Curiosity prompted my father
to go and listen to them, "When for the first
time," he says, "I heard the fulness of the
everlasting Gospel." They had partaken of
the Sacrament for the first and last time on
the day of their baptism into that church.
They had never found any minister who could
tell them what to do to be saved, only to "be-
lieve in the Lord Jesus Christ," and this only
left them in a more unsatisfied and sorrowful
state than ever. Though the Baptist faith in-
cluded some doctrines which they did not be-
lieve, they thought it best to put themselves
under its charge, it being the best thing they
could find.
	But a new and important era was about to
open in their lives. Fifteen years or so from
that date found them outcasts; their goods
confiscated, and they driven before the mobs,
because of the prejudices raised by those o'er
religious sects—into the wilderness, to seek
refuge among the uncivilized and savage races
from those bitter persecutions which they had
received from the day they had rendered obedi-
ence to the only true Gospel, which alone had

[Column 2]
sustained them. My mother's joy during those
days of tribulation, was because of her humility
and obedience, and so it was with all the rest
who did likewise. The Lord fed them upon
the pure bread of life during their trials, when
they endured them patiently for righteousness'
sake. He surely fulfilled His part, and I am
only one out of many who can testify that
some of the most glorious seasons were enjoyed
during that time when we were left, as it were,
with nothing but a merciful Father to look to
for our daily bread, and His arm to protect us
from the wicked who sought so diligently the
destruction of His people.
	The little meetings which the sisters held
twice or three times in a week, were begun in
the month of May, while we had the privilege
of Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina Young and a few
others, who went with the first company that
left Winter Quarters in June for the Rocky
Mountains. The spirit that began to be poured
out while they were with us, continued to burn
in the bosoms of those who met often one with
another, and the love of God flowed from
heart to heart, till the wicked one seemed
powerless in his efforts to get between us and
the Lord, and his cruel darts, in some instances,
were shorn of their sting.
	At the time when numbers were laying sick
with the terrible scourge that was carrying off
so many of the Saints, being made easy prey
for disease and death in consequence of the
weakened condition to which they were reduced
by long privations and exposure, and death
seemed determined to lay them low, my
mother would go from door to door ministering
food and consolation to the sick, and pouring
out blessings upon them, during which time
she scarcely touched food herself; at meal times
she would only take a cup of milk saying,
when urged to eat, that she had no room for it.
She seemed to grow stronger in body, and
had an abundance of nurse for her babe; in
blessing she was blessed, and there were others
enjoying a portion of the same spirit, and by
their united faith and works, with fasting and
prayer, the sick were healed and made to re-
joice more abundantly in the mercy of their
Lord, that they were numbered among those
who were to come up through much tribula-
tion and be made white in the blood of the
Lamb.
	There were many great and glorious mani-
festations—some had visions, and by the gift
of tongues there were things foretold, some of
which we have seen the fulfillment of, and
others that are coming swiftly upon those who
have turned away and are uniting their voices
and influence against Zion which we were
told should be established in these mountains,
where the laws of God were to rule, and the
honorable of the earth would come to dwell
within its borders, because the wicked were
allowed to rule elsewhere, and peace was taken
from the earth, except it were in Zion, a place
where righteousness would reign, and naught
should molest or make afraid in all the holy
mount.
	Many were the things revealed by the spirit
concerning the judgments that would be poured
out upon the nations after they rejected the
Gospel, and smote and slew others of god's
messengers who should be sent out to proclaim
the Gospel of salvation to an erring world,
and the righteous would barely escape, and
many of them would be called upon to lay
down their lives in their struggle for the truth;
also of the wars that were right at our doors,
famine, pestilence, etc., and the anguish that
would rend the hearts of the suffering and be-
reaved; that the time would be when hunger
would overcome every tender feeling, and even
mothers would eat their own babes. Many
terrible things were so clearly portrayed to the
minds of those who were present and under-
stood as they were spoken, by the gift and

[Column 3]
power of the spirit, that we felt to pray the
Lord to close the vision of our minds.
	Frequently, without eating or drinking, we
would meet in the morning, either at my
mother's, or some other of father's houses, and
spend the day singing, praying and prophecy-
ing; occasionally some of the brethren who
could leave their work united with us and re-
ceived great blessings in connection with the
sisters; many consoling things were spoken by
the spirit concerning our brethren, the Pioneers
and Battalion, to the truth of which they
testified when they returned.
	Sisters Presendia Kimball and Frances Swan
Kimball, also Emmeline Whitney, now Editor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, were gifted in
the interpretation of tongues. The two former,
with a few others, met at the house occupied
by Sister Presendia and Laura P. Kimball,
and while conversing upon some of the spirit-
ual manifestations the same power rested down
upon them, and an open vision appeared to
Frances. I have not heard it related for
years, but as nearly as my memory serves me,
they that were there said she arose, and her
countenance beamed with a brightness like
unto one transfigured; her voice and language
was heavenly, and grace was in every move-
ment, as she stood there and related over
scenes in the experience of some of those sis-
ters, which were some of the most acute trials
that had been their lot to pass through during
their earth-lives, or while being driven from
place to place in Missouri, Illinois, and at
various times since they took upon themselves
the name of Latter-day Saint. She seemed to
be addressing one or more personages, who re-
corded each one's story as they were told them,
only one entering their presence at a time,
Frances being voice for them, as well as for
the personage, who, in return, addressed them
with a look of approval, and with a counten-
ance beaming with joy and satisfaction, they
were welcomed, and a bright crown of glory
was placed on each one's head, attended with
words suitable to their station and the occasion.
Sister Frances had known little or nothing of
their previous experience, and had never heard
the incidents related, but she described them
as accurately as if told by themselves.
	I heard the vision related, but Sister Presen-
dia could do it more justice, no doubt, as she
witnessed the whole, and at best I have retained
but a faint remembrance of it, not having
been present at that meeting.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"The opening of the exposition of New
Orleans was attended by 50,000 people."

	"Twenty-six young ladies have passed the
first examination in the Royal University of
Ireland."

	"The 'Primrose Leagues' of ladies, named
for Disraeli's favorite flower, are said to have
carried several districts for the Conservatives
in the recent English elections."

	"Last year there were 196 women in attend-
ance at the University of Michigan, come six-
teen more than in the previous year. The
largest part of the number were connected
with the literary department, the next largest
with the medical."


﻿Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Oct. 13. 1885, as follows.
	Hattie Scott, Detroit, Mich. Slate pencil
Sharpener.
	Marion Shobs, Rochester, N. Y., Roller
Skate.
	Emily A. Stears, Brooklyn, N. Y., Wash-
basin.
	Mary E. Thompson, New York, Portable
Dust hood or Blower.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<fission,is through="" you="" are="" froftorrdh="" worldjmqjfs="" spares-,="" -="" 7...="" anosxidaxpd="" bjnighe.yyere="" prayincjr.="" .ypu....="" uh-ft.="" rphere.a2aiir,<youcaa'knqwthe="" comfdrt="" of'jrome,'="" i="" jtff="" aivi6v,the?ce'ncs="" of;your,="" oyrn-nativpmdn="" u-;r="" bfi="" jbejunited,vfitb;li?vel="" ppe—would="" all="" could;="" comq="" asj="" iyjiatlgng.tp="" your="" dear="" hoyeupld.and;="" ,="" -isailpyi19y?="" s="" ?v-5-="" inroughtheactvons.olpaserwiciceanven.="" m;..kmmjoc.o3.="" in="" r:="" .="" 1.01n5="" nu;o:n<="" -jib!:;="" -xiu&iermed7ppr.oppef="" jngs,andundaj$cjiopl5="" bmi="" 3‘o°.="" "ii.="" oj.itiu.c;="" 5,’r="" to,'ci="" (?.r.ot!="" 2cc="" r;.-r="" ti3d="" hnt="" i"'="" j-="" a="" good="" our="" midst="" witf="" end1="" thivfewciiages="" arema'ye,="" we’re="" not="" noted="" lo?wosferful'deeds7'="" but="" have="" qmetlx'keptlaar="" watd'f'id.tfo="" shade,"="" -aadtls="" seed="" irtt±eisvaad="">			A POEM.

[WRITTEN TO WELCOME BROTHER ASAHEL
H. WOODRUFF HOME FROM HIS MISSION.]

		BY REBA B. PRATT

Dear brother, we come with a welcome to-night
	Most heartily filled with good cheer,
These words, which friendship inspired us to write,
	Is the greeting of every one here.
We, with you, rejoice that your mission is through,
	You are free from the world and its snares,
By day and by night we were praying for you,
	And our Father has answered our prayers.

Here again, you can know the comforts of home,
	View the scenes of your own native land.
Be united with loved ones—would all could come
	Who belong to your dear household band.
Joy would be more complete if you could here see
	Your aged father with us once again;
How much we deplore he an exile must be
	Through the actions of base wicked men.
You were missed from our meetings, and Sunday School,
		too,
	None other your place here could fill;
So you see it is ready and waiting for you,
	With the work of a good mission still.
In our midst you will find that few changes are made,
	We're not noted for wonderful deeds,
But have quietly kept our ward in the shade,"
	While persecution was sowing its seeds.

We are pleased, as we look once more on your face—
	'Twas remembered as boyish and fair,
But time, in its changes, has quietly placed
	The stamp of true manhood there.
We are proud of the mission filled in your youth,
	Its benefits you surely will prize;
Experience has taught you lessons of truth
	You could not have learned otherwise.

You have visited cities of great renown,
	Their wonders you have tarried to view;
May all you have learned in the future be found
	A source of true knowledge to you.
May time strengthen your faith, as the years go by,
	May your mission a blessing still be,
And the seed increase and multiply
	You planted far over the sea.

Farmer's Ward, Nov., 1885.


CHASTITY.
				---
		So dear to heaven is saintly chasisty,
		That when a soul is found sincerely so
		A thousand liv'ry'd angels lackey her,
		Driving far off, each thing of guilt nad sin.
								Milton's comus.
	Most entirely do I believe the above glorious
words of the immortal Milton, he whose life
bore no moral stain, how grand an epitaph to
be written upon any tomb--chastity! innocence
before God, "purity in the inward parts," as
Scripture names it. Yes, indeed, a being so
gifted, without the stain of moral so rofuola
must be one upon whom the smile of approval
beams from the Great Father of the universe!
Love, that heavenly inheritance, cannot dwell
in an unchaste soul; did love rule upon the
earth, lust would not be known; yet how
this holy name traduced?  The true definition
of the word is almost lost on the general ear.
Name love, and its foul opposite is seen to rise
up in the minds of the mass; they are unac-
quainted with the true definition of the word
and the holy principle it represents so that it
has only the signification of the sound it has on
the lips.
	It is an untold blessing to have a pure an-
cestry, especially a pure parentage. "Chastity
must be an inherent quality of the soul; the
schools can neither make or unmake nature,
though they have the power to mould and re-
fine manners and ideas, they, of course, culti-
vate, modify and improve, nature, though she
has her fill—of school—will be nature
still.
	I know that all schooling, that is, educating
nature, must commence in the incipient stages
of life, even in infancy, as soon as it can under-
stand looks and the tone of the voice; from
that moment it should be taught purify and
refinement in its ways and habits--the infant
is ever a creature of habit, and it is the duty
of the mother, or the nurse, to see that she
does not break the order she has instituted.
Wisdom is imperative in all who have the
care of the infant--man or woman, for they
are laying a foundation for all future life, not
to say eternity, and the training, for good or
for evil, will have a powerful effect upon the
future course, for early habits are woven in
the web of life most assuredly.
	Mothers, and those who have the care of
young children and infants, should remember
to be in school themselves every day of their
lives, for even the infant imbibes the spirit of
her who attends it day by day and hour by
hour; delicacy and refinement should guard
every action, for be assured the plastic soul
will bear the impress given!  Language, also,
should ever be guarded, that no words nor ex-
clamations may fall upon the infant ear, but
that which is sweet, harmonious and loving.
	In bathing and dressing children, they should
be treated with the same considerate delicacy
that would be given to an adult.  I have
known children who exact this, and would
become unmanagable if it was omitted, and if
persisted in would break down to tears, these
are the naturally pure ones, that vividly retain
the dignity of their pre-existent home--their
parents also have been of the same; they are
souls without spot or blemish, whom the angels
guard, for they are the beloved of the Lord.
By such a course chastity is induced and culti-
vated in the nursery.
	How tenacious are the Scriptures on chasti-
ty both in men and women--equally binding
on each.  How fearful and instantaneous were
some of the punishments on those who broke
the law of chastity!
	Death before dishonor, was the motto of the
Romans. Sheridan Knowles has worked into
one of his most powerful dramas a display of
how this was carried out, in a most thrilling
manner.  It is founded on Roman history.
Virginius, a Roman citizen, has a lovely
daughter, who, being motherless, he has cen-
tered in her a strange and marvelous love; he
has had her carefully educated, and she returns
it all with loving interest; she is pure and
beautiful.  A debauched Patrician, one in
power, has seen her, and determines to possess
her, but, knowing the sterling worth of her
father, and that he is a Roman in very deed,
he can only succeed by having him accnsed
and arrested on some trifling offense, for high
treason!  He is, of course, condemned; he is
agonized, for he knows the wretch who has ac-
cused him, and also his foul intent; he asks for
a few moments to bid his child farewell; it is
granted.  He has secured his dagger, and
while lavishing on her his soul of love, and
folding her in agonizing fondness in his power-
ful arms, plunges the dagger to her heart!
Thus she is saved by the holy hand of her
father, by death before dishonor.  Here was an
immortal endorsement of "saintly chastity!"
Virginius did indeed drive-off "the wretch of
guilt and sin!"  This is a deed written with an
iron pen, dipped in holy and sacred blood, for
ever in the archives of Rome, and lauded and
endorsed by eternal ages, and it stands out in
bold relief, especially in this lax age, when the
whole world seems tainted with licentiousness!
Still, we know that in all ages, everywhere
there have ever been the virtuous and the pure,
and that they have been the salt of the earth,
preserving the mass from putrefaction, for they
have not bowed the knee to the foolish fashions,
or indecent practices of the age, and they are
those on whom the angels wait.
	But, as a people, we rose up and left our
father's house and the world in which they
dwelt, that we might gather and enter into
laws and covenants that would place the sheet-
anchor of our souls within the veil; and now, if
we have "slumbered and slept" let us awake
and shake off our drowsiness and start afresh
on the journey of life, and most especially as a
"vigilant committee" over our infants and our
youth, for such is greatly needed.
	You, young mothers, remember day by day and
hour by hour the mighty responsibility that rests
upon you, such as you must not, cannot shirk
with impunity; if you do a day of awful re-
morse awaits you!  Foster not vanity in
your girls by rich and fantastic clothing, and
frivolity in heart and brain; teach them to
know that these are the orgaus, and these
alone, that produce immortality.  As they are
cultivated and exercised in this stage of exist-
ence, so will they wake up on the morning of
the resurrection. Devote; at least, the next
twenty years to maturing and educating your
children; this will be to you the finest school
on earth; there, equally with your children,
will you be learning lessons that will fit and
prepare you for eternity.  Arouse that strong
individuality that you all possess, more or less,
and be not drawn by example or importunity
from the "straight and narrow path," but,
having laid down plans for your own house-
hold, keep "the even tenor of your way," and
the end will be joy and peace and satisfaction,
and your children will "rise up and call you
blessed," for they will love, and more, respect
you.  I know what I am talking about; it is
practical truth; therefore, receive it as though
you were my daughters; it is a small, but im-
portant legacy in a few words, but if you will
remember it and carry it out, and then a great
deal more "unwritten philosophy," which you
will discover as you climb the hill of life, you
will realize that I have spoken truth, and
you will rejoice therein, as  you will discover
that the refinement of the soul is the polish of
heaven!  True nobility does not receive its pa-
tent from Westminster, or St. Paul, or any
earthly court, but direct from the chancery of
heaven, through a pure ancestry.
	I wonder if my young brothers ever con-
descend to read the EXPONENT.  I have heard
some ladies say they cannot read the small-talk
of the EXPONENT. My readers, you may dis-
cover a strong vein of sarcasm runs through
this little pen of mine as I echo their words, but
do my brothers read it--my young brothers?
This is the question I ask.  If so, I would tell
them the reason I address my young sisters
more especially is because I know that woman
has so often been the keeper of man's virtue,
and when they meet in the great beyond those
to whom she has been their guardian angel on
earth, will gladly acknowledge it, and such
will shine with a lustre, the splendor of which,
at present, we have no conception of.
	I honor my young brethren, I feel many
 are commencing to be "burning and shining
lights" in the kingdom of our God, and that
the smile of their Father--God-- is upon
them.  Oh, may they set "their face as a flint"
to walk the straight and narrow path that
leads to life and immortality, to be enabled to
set their foot on everything that would arise
to check their progress in the upward path,
and be able to say, in the name of Jesus
Christ, get thee behind me, even though the
tempoter came in the form of an angel of light.
Innocence before God will carry man or
woman through life, and more, through death!
But without it--I will not contemplate the re-
verse.  May the angles of God surround His
people to-day as a mighty phalanx, is my daily
prayer.
						HANNAH T. KING.


He that swears tells us that his bare word
[-]s not to be credited.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published [---] in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy on[-] ye[---] [---] copy six months $1.00, Ten
copies for the price of [---]
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 2[-] E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. B[---]ess hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY.		DECEMBER 1, 1885.


CRUSADE AGAINST MORMONISM.

     The Press and the pulpit, as well as law-makers,
seem trying to work themselves and everybody
else into a perfect frenzy over the "Mormon" ques-
tion, true it is this peculiar people "are every-
where spoken against;" the papers abound in
matter upon this engrossing topic, and some of the
greatest ministers and lecturers of the day take
up the "hue and cry" and proclaim against
"Mormon" barbarism," "ignorance" and
"iniquity." They either accept false statements
and misrepresesntations for truth, or they invent
the most ridiculous fabrications for effect, to
draw money from the people, and to awaken a
wide-spread interest in the matter, so that some
sort of capital may be made for the church, or
the government officials and hangers on.
     Occasionally some great speaker or orator gets
so intensely virtuous, that the sacred Scriptures
are not sufficiently complete and he falls to and
hammers away at "Mormon," polygamy until if it
were not an eternal principle, there would not be
a vestige of it left; but truth though crushed to
earth, will rise again. Men and women of great
learning and celebrity have tried over and over
to put down Mormonism, and so utterly failed to
do any more than create a commotion and a
[--]rore, that it seems strange that there are any
new aspirants to champion the lost cause. But as
it is, they spring up now and then like mushrooms,
and are gone like the summer dew, one knows
not where, and "Mormonism" lives and flourishes
through its own vitality, notwithstanding the
storms that beat upon it, and the twigs and limbs
that are sometimes broken off because of the
heavy winds that come against it, that only strength-
en the growth, as it were, while the pruning process
makes it even more wholesome and vigorous.
Thus all the extra work done by those who are so
anxious to destroy it root and branch from the
face of the earth is merely labor lost. They
simply defeat their own purpose by the course
taken and are doomed to continuous and eventu-
ally everlasting disappointment.
	The New West Education Society has taken
up the vexed question and one of the great men,
Rev., Geo. W. Philips delivered an elaborate
annual sermon on this topic at the Union Park
Church, Chicago, recently. He called his subject
"The Mormon Menace," and took for his text: 
	"There is an accursed thing in the midst of
thee, O Israel. Neither will I be with you any
more except ye destroy the accursed thing from
among you.—Joshua vii, 12-13.
     Spare thy people O Lord, and give not thine
heritage to reproach. Jeol. 11, 17.
     This learned divine applies these passages to
"Mormonism." The plan the society has adopt-
ed as set forth in the sermon is educational mis-
sion work. Among his paragraphs are such ex-
pressions as the following. The "public domain
is a sacred trust, a divine heritage, and when
"menaced with moral evil it concerns all the rest
to come to the relief of the exposed point. The

[column 2]
body politic, the family, our common christianity
have all been wounded by the poison of poly-
gamy. Patriotism, and piety alike join in the
passionate cry."
	Christianity wounded by the poison of polygamy
is too absurd, when Christ himself never, in any
place, or at any time protested against it, though
it was the prevailing custom of the country.
How much more pure are the modern Christians
or their civilization than that of the Savior's
period or when those ancient worthies flourished
at a much earlier day, even at a time when men
walked and talked with God. The preacher says
later on in his discourse, "Polygamy as against
the Christian family is the issue presented at the
center of American civilization in the near fu-
ture."  	*	*	*	"But its defeat
is no easy task. Such sins die hard," and he
adds, as though to rouse the intense indignation
of his hearers, "With its burning shame so near
us as to scorch our eyeballs what excuse can we
plead for our indifference?" The appeal is made
to send missionary women here and to establish
schools to educate this people and their children
and the people will respond no doubt with means
thinking they are assisting to purify and civilize
Utah, whereas, there is not a people anywhere
better able to educate their own children and sup-
port schools than the "Mormons". He says, "But
we mistake if we imagine that soldiers and courts
can cure the plague of the new West." "Law
when enforced leaves the evil spirit still in pos-
session. What Utah needs is light and grace and
social purity." His theory is all right here, and
he tells some truth, the very boons we crave are
light and grace and social purity, not, however, such
as the so called Christian reformers have brought
here with them, but the light from heaven that
flows through the channel of the priesthood, the
grace that is born of sacrifice of feeling to princi-
ple, and the social purity that is the inevitable re-
sult of obedience to the commandments of God.
	These are the stepping stones to salvation and
an exaltation, and the Latter-day Saints who are
now enduring the trials and hardships brought
upon them by such Christian teachers and preach-
ers as the Rev. Phillips are as sure of the triumph
of their cause as they are positive now of the
growth and increase and prosperity that followed
the exodus from Nauvoo. And this is precisely
what the enemy fears; they talk of the success
that has attended Mormonism, of suppressing its
growth, thwarting and crippling its efforts in
foreign parts, etc., and seem fully aware of a
power that baffles their most carefully concocted
schemes, notwithstanding all they have to say of
"our ignorance" and their own educational advan-
tages and intelligence. Mr. Phillips says "Mor-
monism is thoroughly possessed with the mission-
ary idea. It proposes to convert the Gentiles, and
is doing it with astonishing success. It is clearly
within Max Muller's famous definition of a 'living
religion, viz.: Systematic self-propagation,	*	*
Latter-day Sainthood aspires to dominion. This
feature differences it from all other organized sys-
tems of evil that taint our civilization. We are
just beginning to make note of the far-reaching,
intense propaganda of the Mormon Church."
	They are afraid of the little stone that was cut
out of the mountain without hands, afraid of its
rolling forth and crushing in pieces, etc. But they
will find themselves utterly powerless to stay its
course, or stop the progress of the Latter-day
work.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms on Friday, December 11th, com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is earnestly de-
sired that there should be a good representation
from all the wards. Verbal reports are expected
from the respective presidents.


THE Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Saturday, Dec. 19th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m. This arrangement to have the whole
day for the Conference is in order to give more
time for speaking and spiritual improvement, or
exercises that might be of benefit to all. One
meeting is almost entirely occupied with business
and reports, and therefore leaves very little time
for general instruction. A general invitation is
extended to all interested to attend.
	THE Conference of the Primary Associations
of this Stake will be held in the Assembly Hall
on Saturday, Dec. 12th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m. Preparations are being made in the
Associations in the several wards to make it an
interesting event for all. Special care has been
taken to have the little folks well trained in sing-
ing and other exercises, and it is to be hoped
there will be a large attendance, not only of the
children who are enrolled in the Associations, and
those who have charge of them in the organiza-
tions, but of the parents, to encourage the child-
ren and those who labor for their advancement,
and certainly they are interested in the spiritual
progress of the youth of Zion.


CARD OF THANKS.
	The President and Board of Directors of the
Deseret Hospital wish to express their thanks and
grateful acknowledgements to all those who have
recently contributed money, orders and useful
articles to assist in sustaining this institution,
which is still in its infancy. The following is a
complete list of the names of the firms and indi-
vidual donors:
	Trustee-in Trust, Deseret Bank, Z. C. M. I.
Drug Store, Godbe, Pitts & Co., A. C. Smith &
Co., Moore & Allen, Roberts & Nelden, Zion's
Saving's Bank, James T. Little, Primary Associa-
tions Salt Lake Stake, Per Ellen C. Clawson,
President, Culmer Bros., Dr. W. H. Groves, Bur-
ton, Gardner & Co., Cunnington & Co., R. K.
Thomas, Swaner & Co., Henry Lawrence, Barnes
& Davis, Septimus W. Sears, White & Son, John
T. Caine, Jennings Bros., William H. Rowe, John
Daines, John Clark, Nelson A. Empey, Samuel
Teasdel, Carl Asmussen, John Spencer, Orson P.
Arnold, Catherine Horrocks, Co-op Furniture Co.,
Robt. Sherwood, Hardy Bros. & Burton, Spencer
Clawson, John McDonald, Mrs. E. J. Travis, J.
C. Cutler, John Q. Cannon, W. H. Rowe, Thos.
Jennings, George Arbogast, W. B. Dougal, Jas.
Jack, D. McKenzie, Wm. C. Spence, Geo. F.
Gibbs, George Goddard, John Irvine, Daniel F.
Daniels and Rocky Mountain Ice Co., Hogel
Bros., Sorenson & Carlquist and Mrs. Sarah T.
Wheeler.
	Some of the parties who have given may think
the Secretary has been very dilatory about pub-
lishing this notice, but some of the contributions
have only been very recently made, and this is
offered as an apology to those who may have
thought the acknowledgment through the public
prints late in coming. The managers are none
the less gratified, however, for the timely assist-
ance rendered just when Bishop Clawson, the
president of the institution, was obliged to absent
himself for a time, and there were heavy responsi-
ties resting upon the management. It is hoped
that all who have given to this good and noble
work will feel doubly blessed in return, for cer-
tainly "he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord," and to be able to aid suffering humanity is
always praiseworthy, and brings its own reward.
						E. B. WELLS,


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETINGS
	Synopsis of the minutes of the regular meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, October 31st, 1885, Counselor B. W.
Smith presiding. After singing, prayer was


offered by Sister Emma Toone.  Continued by
singing; and the minutes of the previous meeting
were read and accepted.  Minutes were also read
by the respective secretaries from the Y. L. of the
11th and 20th wards, and from the P. A. of the
5th, 15th, 20th and 21st wards.
	Sister Smith made a brief opening address and
gave the meeting over to the sisters.  Two or
three sisters in the congregation each bore a testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Counselor S. M. Kimball said any one who
could say this truly was endowed with the highest
order of intelligence, and working upon those
principles revealed through that source would
take us into the presence of our Eternal Father.
Several of the sisters in the congregation spoke
briefly on the times, the training of the youth o
Zion, the redemption of the dead, etc.
	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," was
sung by the congregation, after which Dr. Elvira
S. Barney addressed the congregation, making
some very practical suggestions, and giving
spiritual advice; alluded to the condition of our
young people, and warned mothers to take
special care of their daughters.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of her recent visit to
the Penitentiary, and that the brethren were feel-
ing well contented; also Miss Shaffer, who had
been sent there for contempt, was satisfied to re-
main, as she was determined not to submit to the
dictation of the court.  She referred to the hard-
ships and experiences of the missionaries, and to
the position the Saints now occupy compared to
that of former days, when we were journeying
and pioneering from Nauvoo to this valley.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor gave a short sketch of her
recent visit to the southern settlements of Utah
County, also spoke of the strong faith of the peo-
ple, and testified that this is the work of God, and
all who are firm and faithful will come off triumph-
ant.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc.  Benediction by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.

     Synopsis of the minutes of the meeting held
Nov. 14th, Counselor Elizabeth Howard presid-
ing.  After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs.
Margaret Steele.  Singing.  Minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. Minutes of Y. L.
of the 20th and 15th wards, and of the P. A. from
the 5th, 10th,  21st and 8th wards were read by
the respective secretaries.
	Mrs. Howard called upon Mrs. M. A. Freeze to
address the sisters.  She spoke of her absence
from the city, but that she had enjoyed her work
in the, Temple and earnestly desired to perform
any part she was called upon to take, and to re-
main faithful and true to her covenants, in the
midst of the trials by which we, as  people, are
surrounded. Referred to having heard President
Brigham Young say that women were more spiritu-
al minded than men, and believed herself that it
was so; thought this was a trying day, but did not
think we had  come to the narrows yet, and those
who had not planted their feet on  sure founda-
tion could not possibly weather the storm.  Spoke
of her great interest in the young people, and the
regret she felt that any should fall into by and for-
bidden paths; urged the mothers to be more than
ever watchful, lest any be led astray.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde, President of the Relief So-
ciety in Sanpete Stake, occupied a few moments,
alluding to her recent visit to the Lamanite sisters
in Indiola or Thistle Valley, where they were or-
ganized and met together; said one of the
Lamanite brethren had urged her very much to
visit them.  She enjoyed her visit to them exceed-
ingly, and it seemed to do them a great deal of
good; they had a kind of re-organization, too, and
she felt they would go on better.  Made some
good and very suitable remarks about the manners
and deportment of our young ladies, and urged

[column 2]
them to be dignified in all their associations with
each other, and especially with the opposite sex.
She also bore her testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work, and affirmed her knowledge of
plural marriage, and that it was from God.
	Mrs. M. E. Kimball expressed her pleasure in
hearing the voice of Sister Hyde, for she had
known her in Nauvoo, and that she was one of
the faithful ones.  She spoke a few words and
then burst forth in the gift of tongues.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor, after some preliminary re-
marks, spoke upon the duties of mothers, and
advised them to be as careful in educating their
sons as their daughters in the ways of virtue;
thought the Lord required as much purity from
the one as from the other, and that young girls
were entitled to receive as much in that regard as
was expected of them; thought that our children
should never forget that they are chosen spirits,
and should prove themselves such by their purity
of life.
	Mrs. Mary S. Snow related some incidents in
connection with her visit to the Eastern States; she
had been successful in obtaining the records of
her dead, and hoped to be able to do a great work
in the Temple for them.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson made interesting remarks
concerning the eventful ttmes in which we are
living, and how awful it was to think of the
schemes that were laid for the overthrow of this
Church, and bore a testimony to the truth, and
earnestly entreated all to prove faithful, etc.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougal thought if each one would
do their duty there would be no need of the
different organizations; the teaching ought to
be done at home; very emphatically seconded
the advice of Mrs. E. S. Taylor, and gave other
good counsel.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of our departed sister,
that we had been in the habit of seeing on the stand so
many years, Sister Woodruff; thought we should not
mourn for one who had filled up her life with good
works and lived to such a good old age; she had
passed through many severe trials and much hard-
ship in this Church, because of the persecutions,
but had earned a great reward, and would certain-
ly get it; prayed that we might do as well as she
had done, and enter into that exaltation which we
were trying to attain.
	Mrs. Howard felt that the Spirit of the Lord
had been with us; said she hoped from this time
henceforth that no more of our sons and daughters
would be led astray; gave good advice in regard
to the training of our children.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing.
Benediction by Mrs. Julia Howe.
								E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
INTERFSTING CORRESPONENCE.

	Looking over some old manuscript, we came
across these letters; one from an Eastern gen-
tleman to his "Mormon" sister and her reply;
and, as there were many excellent items in-
cluded in them that are just as good to-day
as when they were written, we concluded to pub-
lish them. The mass meeting referred to is
the one that was held in the Salt Lake Thea-
tre in November 1878—ED.

		SALEM, Mass., Jan. 2nd, 1879.
DEAR SISTER PEKO:

	Your paper and extracts were duly received,
and read with interest as I had a desire to
hear from the wives of Utah by their own
mouths.
	The remarks of the speakers in convention
or mass meeting, are certainly intelligent, in-
deed quite able, and exhibit a hearty ac-
quiescence in "plural marriage" and a vindica-
tion of it, which our New England wives
would think very strange, yea, quite impossi-
ble—but I was by no means surprised. It

[Column 2]
only shows what decided, whole-hearted
women will always do for conscience sake—
where such women come to believe that their
God requires even the greatest sacrifices of
them. They are not the kind to falter, and I
am inclined to think that some of those noble
women—can call them nothing less who spoke
in that convention, have away down in their
"human hearts" a consciousness of great and
painful self denials in connection with their
marital experience. For I think it would be
hard to find a woman of that class who, by
nature, would not ask the whole heart of one
honest man; and who would not shrink from
sharing a dear darling husband with even one
sister woman be she never so amiable and
lovely. This is my measure of the heart of 
a true, pure and refined woman as God made
her. You are a good judge, I appeal to you
and rest my case on your testing. Now, what
sayest thou?
	But as I have said above, decided persons
under tho influence of religious obligation,
overcome the strongest sentiments of the
heart.
	We suppose only the faithful made declara-
tion of their sentiments on the question of
plurality. It would be far too much to sup-
pose that all and every Mormon wife was as
satisfied and happy in her situation as those
who so heartily defended the peculiar institu-
tion. There may be some uprisings in the
mother's breast, who, like Sarah of old, should
see her darling child "mocked" by the up-
start offspring of some Sister wife by a later
marriage—but all this and much more of the
same sort cannot settle the main question. Is
this Mormon view of domestic life the correct
one.
	Now, with your indulgence, as the minister
says, I will write you a few thonghts of my
own, though aware of my utter inability to
do the subject justice.
	In the first place my intention is to take
Jesus of Nazareth for my teacher and master,
and with my present convictions I cannot fol-
low or acknowledge any other. Believing in
Jesus, I of course accept Moses and the
prophets, although I consider that we are
under the new covenant which has superseded
the Mosaic, so we no longer have Moses as our
teacher and lawgiver, but Jesus.
	Now, as to the claims of Joseph Smith to be
a prophet from God, I cannot consider them
well established and to my mind there are
many reasons for rejecting them.
	We have no Bible prophesy, which can be
construed to foretell the advent of such a
prophet as Mr. Smith.
	With the ascending of Jesus came the
promise of his return, but no promise of
a coming prophet like unto Joseph
Smith, who should introduce a new order of
things—He, Jesus, also promised to send the
Comforter (Paraclatos) which was fulfilled on
the day of Pentecost.
	The apostles while they direct our eyes to
the coming of Jesus to judge the world in
righteousness, and establish His Kingdom, give
us no hint of the coming of a prophet like Mr.
Smith. Jesus by the parable of the Noble-
man illustrates his going and return. He
leaves us in charge of his goods and places
us under his instructions and we are to occupy
till he comes. He is the good Shepherd and
we are to follow no other. This seems to leave
no room to introduce any new order of things
between His going and coming.
	The principles and teaching of Mr. Smith
seem so discordant when viewed beside those
of Jesus and His apostles that I cannot receive
them. To do so would seem to me like going
away backward, instead of forward to a better
dispensation. The new covenant under the
Gospel of Christ is pronounced a better cove-
nant founded on better premises. Under the


[Column 1]

old, the worship of God had been more a mat-
ter of external power; under the new, worship
of the Father was to be in spirit and in truth.
Various things were allowed under the old
covenant (which law was our schoolmaster to
bring us to Christ) which were discontinued
under the new, (being no longer under a
schoolmaster, do we need to exchange Christ
for a man!)
	While I embrace the teaching of Jesus and
follow His example, how can I settle down to
this life, and surround myself with wives and
strive to lay in store the things of this life,
that I may increase the number of my wives
and family?
	Although plural marriage was practiced
and allowed under the old covenant it was
never pronounced a duty, or a means of salva-
tion for either sex, as set forth in the teaching
of Mr. Smith, and though, under the Gospel
there seems to be no direct prohibition of
plurality of wives, that matter like many
others, seems to be left to the hearts of those
who would become a law unto themselves
when they had received the first fruits of the
spirit, and we might safely appeal to the ex-
perience of any one who has drank deep of
the fountain of life in Jesus, whether we
would ask for more than one wife. How was
it with St. Paul, chief of the apostles, and
who taught in accordance with the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit, that the time had
come when those who had wives should be as
though they had them not. How different
Mr. Smith, who, teaches that plurality is a
duty, must be practiced, though it violates the
civil law of the country, and then call it re-
ligious persecution when an attempt is made
to enforce the law. Is this submitting to the
powers that the apostles command us to obey?
not of course when counted to God's com-
mands, but the pretension that God requires
men to practice plurality, is too low, sensual
and worldly. It may be claimed that it would
be better for the world to practice plurality
than do as is now done. Well suppose we ad-
mit it and leave it for the world to practice
and sanction by law, but to say that the
practice of polygamy must be better for the
Church, who should have the Spirit of Christ
and are not of the world, is to my mind awful
and absurd.
	Mr. Smith's teaching seems worldly—very
different from the Gospel, though I am told
that your people say that even Jesus had
wives, but to my mind this is utterly without
foundation and contrary to every fact of his
history. Mention is often made to his mother
and his brethren but not a word about his
wives, which silence would be very strange
if he had had them. He positively says, "The
son of man hath not where to lay his head.
This is quite incompatible with his having
wives. The evidence points to his not seeking
his own, even in this regard. This sort of ef-
fort to drag down the Savior to their own
level could be only made by men who have a
desperate cause to sustain, but is a total fail-
ure.
	The truth of the Christian religion does
not like Mormonism, rest on the credibility of
one man, but has the broadest foundation, into
which is woven the united testimony of many
men and the evidence of many miracles, and
miracles far surpassing even the claims of Mor-
monism, to which we may add the evidence of
fulfilled prophecy. Any religion, as those of
Mahomet, Swedenborg, etc., resting on the
veracity of one man, have, in my humble
opinion, no valid claim to our credence.
	It appears that plural marriage was not
taught in the original "Book of Mormon," but
added by Mr. Smith, as a new revelation (his
enemies and others say) to cover up his own
social irregularities. It seems that his brother,
Hyrum Smith, never practiced plurality, though

[Column 2]

a Mormon, and was killed with Joseph. By
the way, if we can credit history, their being
killed was a natural consequence. Training
and drilling an army looks much like taking
the sword, and we read that "he that taketh
the sword shall perish with the sword." The
State of Illinois welcomed the refugee Mor-
mons, and I think if they had been good,
peaceable citizens they would have found no
trouble.
	The whole tenor of the Gospel, as taught by
Christ and the apostles, leaves no room between
the first and second coming of Christ for such
a movement as that of Joseph Smith, unless
we class it with the lo here's and lo there's,
where it undoubtedly belongs. Permit me to
ask how you, who had experienced such ful-
ness in Christ, such rest and repose of faith in
Him, even in sickness and prospective death,
can find any consolation in the teachings and
principles of Joseph Smith? Is not salvation
through Christ if we are thus full and sure?
When He assures us that all who are His by
faith will not be lost, no one can pluck them
out of His hand, but He will raise them up at
the last day. Is not that enough? Why do 
we need a new prophet? who could not die
for us or raise us from the dead? He, Joseph
Smith, died as any mortal man dies who in-
herits death from Adam; and as there is no
name under heaven given among men whereby
we can be saved, except that of Jesus of
Nazareth; even your prophet could be saved
by no other.
	We need no other Gospel but that of Christ
till He comes. The apostles taught us to
watch for His coming, not for the appearance
of Joseph Smith. God, who in times past
spake unto our fathers, by the prophets, hath
in these last days spoken unto us by His son,
and would He now be likely to go back and
make a new revelation through a man—one
man—and that, too, a revelation of such mo-
ment—really introducting a new dispensation?
This would indeed be very strange.
	Well, that will do for once, at least you will
think so, and if I have expressed myself posi-
tively on some points, I can assure you, my
dear sister, that even stronger terms would
hardly express my feelings in the premises. I
have no enmity against any individual of your
people. I love them, and would do them good
if in my power; I would lead them to Jesus,
the Blessed One, who is the Chiefest among
ten thousand, and the one altogether lovely.
O, I would not have my heart removed from
Him for all the wealth of Utah.
	My family are all alive and in their usual
health; indeed, things are going on with us
very much as when you were here; we hope to
have been learning more of Jesus, and feel
somewhat nearer to Him than in years past.
I know of nothing of especial interest at this
time among your acquaintances here. We
had the privilege of reading your long and in-
teresting letters about Utah, and did so with
much interest. How did you pass the summer
in your sunny valley? Will you write and
tell us all the news, etc. Should be pleased to
hear from you now and then.
	Yours very truly,
		ALPHEUS C. LOCKE.

	ST. GEORGE, Utah, June, 1879.
TO MR. AND MRS. ALPHEUS C. LOCKE:
	My Dear Bro. and Sister:—Your letter,
bearing date of January 2nd, did not reach
me until February 9th; I cannot account for
the delay. The mail ordinarily reaches here
from the east in twelve days. I will make no
excuse for my own delinquences, but will now
proceed to answer though for lack of oppor-
tunity am not skilled as yourself in the use of
language. But I shall presume upon the many
years of my past experience of the kindness of

[Column 3]

both you and yours, to believe you will over-
look all such imperfections as may appear, and
see only my main object, which is to elucidate
truth.
	First of all, you have my thanks for the
just compliments you pay to the "Mormon
women;" but why not raise these same "noble
women" fully up to your standard of refine-
ment? Am glad, however, to see the one
whom you have made brought so fairly to the
front; but will you please tell me where you
got the pattern? Can she be a daughter of
Abraham? If so, you have painted her in
different colors from the way she looks as God
made her, as I view her; the feature of selfish-
ness is far too prominent to fairly represent
the model which He has placed in the fore-
ground among the "holy women," where Peter
points at her as a beacon to light up the path-
way of virtue and refinement for every pure
woman in all coming generations. This is the
model I choose to pattern after, and such are
the women who have assembled in mass meet-
ings in every settlement in the Territory to
declare the sentiments of the main body.
	You seem to be in doubt as to whether every
plural wife is "satisfied and happy." My dear
brother, can you assure me that every mono-
gamic wife lives in the enjoyment of perfect
felicity? Again, if the class of "mockers" had
only passed away with Ishmael (which, unfor-
tunately for me, they did not) I should now
have less cause to pity myself when I think
how, as a child, I was subject to such usage,
and also to a sly pummeling, which came in
seasonably to give variety to the exercises.
	It is possible you may think these childish
bickerings of eight brothers and sisters were a
peculiarity of the family to which I belonged,
and not at all common in monogamic families
generally. However this may be, I will not
stop here to determine, but will surely say that
my experience goes to show that the practice is
not wholly confined to the children of plural
wives. Now, in this connection we will look
at the main question. as you have put it "Is
this Mormon view of domestic life the correct
one?"
	You do not believe in new revelation, so, if
you will not run away from it, I will try and
meet you on your own ground (the Bible) not
only in this regard but also on some points,
which I will hereafter bring to your notice.
	In the first place, then, is not marriage a
divine institution? If so, is it not recorded as
a part of that Scripture which is given by
inspiration of God and pronounced profitable
for correction and instruction in righteousness,
that the man of God, not the world, may be
perfect—thoroughly furnished to all good
works? If so, can he be thoroughly furnished
to all good works and be perfect? (mind you,
I do not say he cannot be saved in some condi-
tion) without observing this institution. You
will certainly acknowledge that, according to
the obedience to God's laws so will the reward
be. Does not God also command this same
man to multiply? And was this law or com-
mandment ever abrogated? If the Lord ever
did go back on His word in this regard, will
you please show me the record? Yes, say you,
Paul says, "I would that all men were as I 
myself." Now, Paul was unmarried, and so
it follows, then, that if that apostle spoke all
things by inspiration, there should have been
no marriages since his day; But Jesus says,
quoting from yours, "Occupy till I come." Of
course the men of that day could say in reply,
"My Lord, how can we occupy till then, seeing
we shall all be dead?" Jesus says again. "Feed
my lambs." Is not this bidding them to gener-
ate, the result of which would be the perpetuity
of the race of mankind; but here comes Paul
again, and says, in substance, I have been
talking with God, about this matter, and He
tells me (or I think I have His Spirit dictating


[Column 1]
what I say) that you must all stop generating
and marrying; of course, which will enable
you to dispense with the "feeding of lambs,"
and He has also concluded that, after all, it is
of no consequence whether any are found
"occupying" or not; at least, brother, would
not this state of things be the result of Paul's
teachings if carried out? But Paul was a
man, and, when not speaking by inspiration,
appears as liable to mistakes as some other good
people, for that he was merely uttering his own
opinion in connection with the "shortness of
time," appears plain to be seen.
	But God, who saw the end from the begin-
ning, has frustrated the designs of Paul in
this matter, by placing in the make-up of hu-
man nature a disposition to carry out His own
purposes of creation.
	I will not, however, do you the wrong to
suppose that you, with your imaginary faith in
Paul's theory of First Cor., 7-29, ever carried
it into practice, for how can I, as the sequel
has shown?
	If I understand you aright, you place the
teachings of Paul and those of Joseph Smith
in contra-distinction to one another; and well
you may, for while Paul is teaching merely his
human opinion, Joseph Smith is teaching the
revealed will of God, both old and new. Now
Joseph ceased to live in the year 1844; he
suffered the same fate of most other prophets,
being murdered by the hands of wicked men;
but I suppose the period including the "short
time" covers at least part of the ground since
that date, and yet during this same time you
have, if I mistake not, taken to your own fold
two of Christ's sheep and several lambs, which
fact makes it look to me as if the rope with
which you have attempted to hang the Mor-
mons had somehow slipped around your own
neck; but you are not the first or only one who
has professed to adopt Paul's theory, for in
1854 some of the good advent brethren were
so exercised thereon that in Lynne a special
meeting was one night appointed after nine
o'clock, where I happened to be present and
heard the people talk Paul till midnight, when
they returned to their homes. Whatever their
conclusions were, I never knew, but the cir-
cumstance was in due time followed by an in-
crease of family among the married, much to
the chargrin of one, Bro. Lyford and wife, of
Salem, who on the discovery in their own case,
immediately isolated themselves by removing
to Danvers, because of their dread of meeting
with the holy indignation of their friend and
brother in the faith, N. Florentine, who, as
shortly appeared, was in the same predicament.
In fact, I have yet to see the person who has
carried out Paul's theory fully since 1843 on
account of the "shortness of time"
	But further, you say that the practice of
plurality was never pronounced a duty or means
of salvation for either sex. This expression
of yours serves to again remind me that you
are not a believer in Joseph Smith as a
prophet, or in the divinity of the Book of
Mormon, but you say you do accept the Old
Testament prophets of God, and for this I am
glad, because we can together listen and hear
what some of them have to say on that score.
We will begin with Moses. Did not he declare
that if a man's brother die, leaving no children,
the living brother should take the widow and
raise up seed to his dead brother. Now, sup-
posing the living brother already has a wife,
can he in that case refuse to obey the one man
who was appointed by God as the great law-
giver? And what if the widow should refuse
to accede to those terms, could they both be
saved all the same as if they had been obedient
to the command of God as given by Moses?
Even had they obeyed every other and still
have, continued to live in violation of this
single one, would they not have been pro-
nounced guilty of all? And supposing such 
were the case, would not the salvation of each

[Column 2]
have depended, at least in this instance, on
their marrying? for sin, we must remember,
is the transgression of the revealed will of
God; and suppose you not that when Jesus
came He found the Jews living in plurality?
and yet we hear not a word from Him against
it; on the contrary, He even forbids divorce,
except  adultery, which shows that more
than one wife was lawful in His day. So your
hint concerning things which were "permitted
under the law, having been discontinued under
the Gospel," does not seem to include poly-
gamy; indeed, I marvel, my dear brother, that
one so well informed as yourself should so
lightly esteem one of the greatest blessings
ever designed for the human race by an alwise
Creator.
	To be sure your crusade appears chiefly
against polygamy, for you ask "how a man filled
with the Spirit of God could desire more than
one wife?"
	Perhaps that question can be better answered
by one of your own sex, as I will bye and bye
attempt to show you. Being myself a woman
you will excuse me if my sympathies in this
matter are entirely on her side, for tell me,
now, is not the system of plurality a fine thing
for women? It is in my opinion only a
false education that prevents a responsive "yes"
from the majority of women. Besides utility
in more than one respect to them--how other-
wise can "every woman have her own husband?"
for right in your own State of Mass. there are
seventy thousand more females than males (see
Dr. Lewis, in "Our Girls," page 150.) It ap-
pears to me that throughout the world general-
ly the females out number the males.
	You probably remember the record in the
second book of Samuel 12th chapter, and 8th
verse, where God by the mouth of the Prophet
Nathan, gave a number of the wives of Saul
into the bosom of David, who, as you will see,
must have had the Spirit of God at that time,
he being a "man after God's own heart,"
and yet God, whom you will allow to be a
wiser judge than myself or any man could be,
saw fit to add to the number which this spiritual
minded man, David, already possessed; one
would think in these days that then, this "good
man" ought to have been satisfied, and if he
was not he could have had more had he ob-
tained them lawfully, God's word being the
standard, but he was not to steal another man's
wife, nor shed innocent blood, both of which
crimes he committed, and these were the crimes
for which he suffered; a heavy penalty, but not
for desiring more wives than one. Of course
you must now admit that in more than one
instance a plurality of wives was more than 
permitted.
	Again, you inquire "how you could, with
your present  convictions, surround yourself
with the things of this world in order to in-
crease the number of your wives and family?"
I would also ask if you have not always
done what your law allows you in that line?
Of course you are squinting a little at the
Mormons again; so I will say that being driven
from their homes in a civilized and Christian
country into a desert, where their enemies were
so sure, they would starve to death that they
taunted them with the offer of a thousand
dollars for the first bushel of wheat they would
raise upon the arid soil they lack, in some
instances, many of the comforts and the
beauties of your surroundings--you see their
motive in fleeing here was not to aggrandize
themselves, but to keep the law of God, which
they understand requires of them one tenth of
all their income (whether it be a bushel of 
wheat, or less) to help on His cause, and having
faith in Him more than in all the world, be-
fore the sun set the day they arrived in Salt
Lake Valley they had planted potatoes and
corn, and the next day they "smote the rock"
and brought water from the mountains, which
the Lord had filled, and with which they have

[Column 3]
irrigated their lands and raised the bushel of
wheat (which, like the widow's barrel of meal,
so famous for its never failing qualities) has,
by the blessing of God, not only kept them in-
dependent of their neighbors for bread, but
has also fed some of their enemies. (I would
here remark that they never saw the color of
the money which was offered for the bushel of
wheat, neither did they expect to.) At the
time of the great fire in Chicago, President
Brigham Young sent them $1,000, and the
collections from the Mormons altogether, as I
am informed, amounted to several thousands.
This fact, and also the account of their giving
five hundred to the yellow fever sufferers at
one time last year you may have seen recorded
in the Eastern papers.
	As I was not in Illinois at the time this peo-
ple migrated there, I cannot take oath as to
whether they were warlike or not, but I can
say that in all my intercourse among them I
have seen no such spirit manifested to their
enemies; on the contrary, I have noticed that
in all their preaching and teaching, and in all
their writings a spirit of the utmost forbear-
ance is inculcated.
	May I hope that I shall not weary you while
I say a few words on the subject of the resurrec-
tion.
	It is stated in the New Testament, John 5-
21, that the Father raiseth up the dead and
quickeneth them, which would seem as if no
other person had anything to do with it. But
hark. Even so, just as His Father did it, the
Son quickeneth--who? Everybody? Whom
He will. So we see already two persons en-
gaged in the work, and yet it says again, in
verse 25th, the dead shall hear the voice of
the Son, which is to raise them to life, as if
the Father had nothing whatever to do with it;
but in verse 19, of the same chapter, it says
that even Jesus could do nothing only as He
learned how by first seeing His Father do the
same, and, being the Son, He is heir not only
of His glory, but also of His power, to raise
the dead. Now, Christ, being taught by and
assisting His Father, would it be strange if He
should confer the same power on His younger
brothers, by teaching them how to do the same?
Perhaps you will say this cannot be the design
of the Almighty, or it would be so recorded;
but who can say it has not been? There are a
number of books referred to in Scriptures
which are not preserved between its covers.
This fact is an argument to my mind in favor
of the necessity of new revelation, for how else
can we be instructed in all things which go to
make a man perfect? Certainly the books re-
ferred to were intended for that purpose. Be-
sides, it is stated in those we have that if all
the things which Christ did and said were
written, the world itself could not contain the
books; so that some truths are barely hinted at,
like, for instance, the baptism for the dead, a
work, by the way, which I know no people in
the world to be doing except the Mormons.
	Again it says Christ shall judge the world;
and is it any more marvelous to suppose that
the Saints shall assist in raising the dead than
that they shall judge the world--and thus it is
written.
	I can find as much consolation in the one
idea as the other, believing each to be true,
and both surpassingly glorious.
	You argue that Joseph Smith cannot be a
true prophet, because the Scriptures do not
describe him as such. There is evidence
enough in them to satisfy me, and if I should
write you again I will give you the references;
I fear I may weary you now. and I wish to 
take further notice of some other of your ob-
jections; but I will just remark that I am not
aware that the "young men and maidens" were
not so minutely described as to be recognized
by everyone. Some supposed they were a
parcel of drunken people, instead of the peo-
ple of Joel's prophecy, and how was it wi[---]


Christ? Did every one believe He was the
Son of God? Besides other vile epithets heaped
upon Him, he was called a "gluttonous man
and a wine bibber," and the most pious persons
that could be found got up a crusade against
Him and His followers,and the work of annihi-
lation is still going on now. 
	Your reference to the "Mormon" faith that
Christ had wives—this idea is merely inferen-
tial. You will recollect that at the marriage
in Cana of Gallilee, Jesus was called "the
Bridegroom" The bride is not here mentioned,
but who, I ask, but a wife would, even in these
degenerate days, come publicly and wash a
man’s feet with her tears and wipe them with
the hair of her head? Christ did not seem to
think the marriage ordinance so degrading to
Himself, but what He could sanction it with
His presence. Who was it I wonder, that so
dragged Him down to the level of mankind
as to induce Him to submit to be circumcised
and baptized? Was it not His own choice?
Did He not say it was becoming in Him to
fulfill all righteousness? Well, then, the ordin-
ance of marriage is righteous, or it is not;
Which horn of the dilemma will you take?
Perhaps He respected His Father’s wisdom
and judgment in framing such a law, and con-
sidered it as pure and holy as any other, and
one of the most sacred, and it is only wicked
men, such as many who sit in Congress, who
would seek to break down what God has
joined.
	Such men as I have just described know
little and care less how many hearts may
bleed, or how many homes may be made deso-
late by the breaking up of families in the
separation of husbands and wives, parents
and children.
	Have you ever reflected, my dear brother,
upon the consequences to this people if this
law just made—which is made by ungodly
men—should be carried out? Just think of
more than fifty thousand happy wives sudden-
ly made widows, some of whom have taken me
lovingly to their heart and home. “God setteth
the solitary in families." Believing He placed
me here, is it any wonder that my sympathies
are wholly with the people in this matter?
Knowing your kindness I am sure it must
undergo a great change ere you can look
placidly out from your pleasant surroundings
amid your loved and loving family, and see
those whose hearts are just as tender, their
affections as deep, and homes as dear to them-
selves for the love that is sheltered beneath
each roof, and not feel sorrow and indignation
at a law which brings naught but evil to an
innocent, industrious and happy people.
	Though your religious belief differs from
theirs, I feel assured your influence will not go
to rob them of all that life holds dear. Their
practice of polygamy affects no one who does
not wish it, and is no crime, except as pro-
nounced so by man-made law; God’s law does
not condemn it,but is on their side; so I believe,
and were I thirty years younger. I would test
the system practically; and you should have
experience therein.
	I am very sorry we are obliged to differ so
widely in our religious views; I would like it
better if, like this people, you could, according
to the Scriptures, "Walk by the same rule and
speak the same thing." I am,
		Very truly your friend,
			REBEKAH D. PEKO.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


It is proposed to erect a memorial church
to the memory of Mrs. Elizabeth, Fry, the
mother of modern philanthropy.  Plasket
Park, in Essex, a few miles out of London,
was her residence at the time of her memorable
visit to Newgate, and it is proposed to build
the church on the site where her garden once
stood. A large sum has been already contribu-
ted by friends and admirers of Mrs. Fry."


HYGIENIC NOTES.
					---
	WITCH HAZEL.--(Medical properties and uses of the
bark and leaves.)  For neuralgia, take a large teaspoonful
of the dried and pressed leaves, as obtained at the drug
store, and sleep like common tea; using cream and sugar
according to taste.  Try it one night and one morning, and
note the result.
	"Astringent, tonic and sedative, used mostly in decoc-
tion, which is good as an astringent in diarrehea, dysentery,
and in bleeding from the lungs, stomach, and urinary
organs, taken freely interanlly; as a wash to old and foul
ulcers; as an injection in Leucorrhoea, flooding, and falling
of the womb, and as a gargle and wash in sore mouth and
throat.  Dosed of the decoction, from half to a teacupful
three or four times a day."


A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT
						---
TO THE MEMORY OF SISTER HARRIET K. BURNHAM,
	FROM THE SISTERS OF THE DRAPER BELIEF
					SOCIETY.
						---
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to remove
by death our much beloved President, we feel it our duty to
show some public token of our esteem for her past services.
Sister Burnham died at the Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake
City, July 24th, 1885.  It was a very unexpected loss to
the Society and cast a gloom over the whole ward.  Sister
Burnham was not only very much beloved by all the sisters
of the Relief Society, but by all who had the pleasure of
her acquaintance.  She was ever kind and sympathizing, a
devoted mother, a true friend, and faithful Latter-day Saint;
and,
	Whereas, Sister Burnham was our President for fifteen
years and has given us many good instructions, and always
advised us to economize our time and means to the best ad-
vantage, may we profit by her teachings and good example,
that when our earthly race is ended, we may be found as
ready and well prepared as she was; for while we mourn
her loss, we feel assured that she is far happier in the so-
ciety of her dear, departed husband and friends.
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her bereaved family,
and pray God our Heavenly Father to bless them with His
Holy Spirit, and guide them in the footsteps of their dear
parents.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon our
record, and a copy be presented to the bereaved family,
also given to the EXPONENT for publication.
						CATHERINE SMITH, Prest.
						HANNAH BURNHAM, Sec.
	She is gone to her rest--then a loving goodbye,
		For a time, our fond sister, adieu;
	We'll think of thy bliss and our tears we will dry,
		And we'll joyfully hope yet to join thee on high,
		Our friendship and love to renew.


[column 1]
THIS PAPER can be found on the 
tables of the
N. D. C. READING ROOM,
718 Washington St., BOSTON, MASS.
	DR. JAMES A. BLISS is duly authorized by 
us to receive subscriptions and to make con-
tracts for advertising at our regular rates.
	The Reading Room is open daily to the 
public (except Sundays) from 9 a. m. to 5 p.
m.
---------------------------------------------------------
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
A full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[hand pointing right] CALL AND EXAMINE
----------------------------------------------------------
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, CAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS
------
[hand pointing right] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from 
the country promply responded to.
[hand pointing right] Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 8[-]6, SALT LAKE CITY.

[column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[typed up left side of picture]
Light Running!  Noiseless!  Simple!
Strong!  Durable!  Reliable!  Elegant!

[ink print picture of sewing machine on sewing macine table]

[written up right side of picture]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine.  It has been
in the Market 23 Years.

Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,		Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."
------------------------------------------------------------
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
------
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[hand pointing right] We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
--------------------------------------------------------------
Special to the Ladies.
------
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of  Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1885.	No. 14.


[column 1]
﻿CHRISTMAS.
All hail!  Savior of the Universe!
Great Redeemer of all the human race—
Centuries have passed since on this earth Thou
Camest, an infant, in most humble guise;
Below all things Thou didst most surely stoop,
That Thou mighst save the myriads of the earth.
A woman as thine agent Thou didst choose,
One whose genealogy was sanctified
By Thine eternal law and covenant;
And she herself was pure—immaculate—
Untainted by the spirit of the world;
A virgin in its most extended sense,
A being angels love to consort with,
And one to her a message did convey,
His salutation most grand and graceful.
"Hail thou that art highly favored, woman
Above all other women shalt thou stand
Through all the countless ages of eternity!
Mother of Christ, thy crowning name shall be;
Grand, appropriate, absolute and just!"

Savior! adorable Redeemer!
We love, we serve, we daily worship Thee;
And at this eventful epoch, the world
Of Christians, congregating, bow the knee.
And celebrate Thine advent on this earth;
The morn of this grand day they hail with joy,
And gladness in their thoughts of Thee,
And in their several ways recount Thy praise;
Partaking of the emblems Thou didst bless
And consecrate for ages yet unborn,
Saying, "This do in memory of ME;"
"This do until I come again, and drink
It new within our Father's kingdom."

Well may the Christian soul rejoice each time
This holy bread and wine doth touch his lips;
Does he not realize the holy tie
That binds him ever to his Savior-God
In holy consanguinity and love?
That love He taught His flock to cultivate,
As sure and certain badge that they were His!

My mind runs back to other days and years,
When "Christmas" was a herald of delight—
The glad re-unions that did then take place,
The absent gladly traveled back to home—
No passion dwelt within each heart, but love—
And where that reigns is paradise regained.

The laborer, as the noble, was at home,
And free to cheer his heart as best he could;
Yes, and the rich arose and piled up means
To make the poor ones' table groan with food.
"Convenient" for the day and age of life,
Believing, only as they blest the poor
Had they a right their splendor to enjoy.

The thrilling bells dispelled the morning dream,
Ushering in the advent of the day;
They had a voice, that after e'en long years
The burden and refrain floats o'er my soul
And list'ning ear, with whisperings immaculate!
Wafting sweet perfume o'er my heart and brain,
Inflating both with lingering delight.

Blest season! to many thou dost ever bring
The sanctity, the holy joy, the love,
The pathos of those long past, happy days;
Again in panoramic guise they pass
Like Banguo's ghosts before the thinking brain,
Informing us of that we long have known,
But in the rush of life becomes dispersed,
For chance and change engulf mortality.

When shall we behold the second advent,
Great and glorious, of our Savior King?
No more infantine, no more in humble guise,
But Lord and King of all the myriads
Of the teeming earth, past, present and to come;
His retinue, ten thousand times ten thousand
Of the glorious hosts of the Empyrean!

[column 2]
My soul, art thou prepared to meet thy Lord?
Is there a people prepared to hail Him,
The great Redeemer, Judge Supreme of earth?
The Christian world for this have groaned in prayer,
On ev'ry "advent Sunday," ages past—
Are they prepared to see their granted prayer?

Great Father, Thou knowest the hearts of all.
Before the Judge of all the earth we stand,
Naked as the new-born, unrobed infant—
My heart and brain I lay before Thine eyes,
And freely dedicate them unto Thee,
For they are Thine—Thou gav'st them unto me
Preserve them in the "hollow of Thine hand"
Until I enter on eternal life
With all the righteous of this teeming earth.
						HANNAH T. KING.
December, 1885.


CHRISTMAS

	Christmas approaches, and as the merry
season draws near, our thoughts revert to a
period eighteen hundred years ago, when the
Eternal Son of God, the mighty Savior of the
world, condescended to become the babe of
Bethlehem, and descended below all things,
that He might bring about the great scheme
of redemption, and open up the way whereby
a fallen world could be restored to the presence
of the Father.
	No wonder the heavenly host sang, “Glory
to God in the highest; peace on earth, good
will to man.” But did mankind receive Him?
Oh, no! he came unto His own, and His own
received Him not. ‘Could this lowly babe,
born of obscure parents and cradled in a
manger, be the King, the promised Messiah?
This cannot be the Deliverer—He that was to
restore the greatness to Israel, and sit upon the
throne of His father, David.  What if angels
did announce His birth with songs of joy, and
the wise men of the east follow His star till it
rested over the manger where the young child
and His mother were! “For,” said they, “how
can this lowly babe be He that was to come
—the promised Savior—and what have we to do
with angels?  Our fathers saw them, but we
have no need, for have we not Moses and the
prophets, and the canon of Scripture is, no
doubt, full, and we cannot receive one who
comes to us under such unpropitious circum-
stances." 
	And so the Jews rejected the Lord of life
and glory.  Ah!  but the arch enemy of man-
kind knew better; he feared {} promise— {}
the seed of the woman should bruise the head
of the serpent, and finding Herod a fitting in-
strument, filled him with fears and inspired his
heart with rage and jealousy, and vainly
thought, by destroying all the young children,
to frustrate the purposes of the Almighty.  No
matter how innocent the victims, no matter
how many mothers are broken-hearted—let
Rachel weep for her children and refuse to be
comforted, if we can only destroy the young
child from off the earth.  But these wicked
designs did not succeed, because the Father
had decreed from the beginning, and overruled
even the evil designs of the wicked, to bring
about His own great and glorious purposes.
And so the Son of God walked the earth His
appointed time, healing the sick, opening the
eyes of the blind, preaching the Gospel to the
poor, comforting the mourner and doing good
to all men; Himself fulfilling every law, that
He might become a perfect sacrifice, doing the
works of the Father who had sent Him, that
He might set an example for us, that if we
follow, and do the works that He did, we shall
become perfect, even as He is perfect.
Then, when another Christmas day dawns
upon the earth, let us remember the Holy One
who has again restored the Gospel to the earth,
never again to be taken from it; and although
His people are under a cloud at the present
time, let us not forget that the promises of God
are sure, and His decrees immutable; and
though some may suffer for a season, the Lord
will surely hear the cry of His oppressed peo-
ple and deliver them and put their enemies to
shame, for they who suffer for Him shall also
reign with Him; and it is they who have come
up out of great tribulation that will follow the
Lamb wheresoever He goeth; while the wicked
and those who would destroy the people of
God from off the earth, shall call on the
mountains and rocks to hide them from His
presence, when the great day of His wrath
shall come, for the efforts of the wicked can no
more overthrow the work of God to-day than
the slaughter of the innocents by Herod could
destroy the infant Jesus.  And the servants of
God, whom persecution has driven to the nations
of the earth, will do a great work therein, and
it will come to pass as it did anciently, that
the more they oppressed us, the more we will
multiply and grow.
Then let us, as Latter-day Saints, seek after-
the Spirit of Him whoso birth we celebrate,
and strive to do the works that He did; and
while we prepare our little gifts of kindness
and love for the objects of our affection, for-
get not the more important duty of administer-
ing to the necessities of the poor and needy,
visiting the sick and carrying comfort to the
mourner, for the Lord Himself has said, “In-
asmuch as ye have done it unto the least of
one of these, my brethren, ye have done  un-
to me.” In this way we shall ourselves receive
a blessing, and give to all a happy Christmas. 
				PHEBE C. YOUNG.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	We never dreamed, when commencing
those little prayer meetings—coming together
so frequently and enjoying the outpourings of
the Holy Spirit—of having to meet and con-
tend with the opposite; but so it was. The
love and union that prevailed seemed to enrage
the evil one, and, not being able to cause a
division among us, he vented his wrath upon the
little ones.
	At one of the meetings which I attended at
Sister Presendia's, there was a powerful mani-
festation of the Holy Spirit, and many comfort-
ing words were uttered, and prophecies of
blessings which it was our privilege to obtain,
if we would unite in fasting and prayer.
	Previous to this the merchants, Davis and
Kimball, who rented one of my mother's rooms,
having sold out their stock, had gone back to
Nauvoo, and her house was the place appointed
by the voice of the Spirit to hold the fast
meeting, and the great blessing to be gained
thereby was the administration of an angel or
angels. I had a promise that day that I 
should be healed by the power of God. Up


[Column 1]

to this time I had remained feeble and unable
to sit up but little, or to walk to a neighbor's
without having to lie down, and this I desired
more than anything else of a temporal nature.
In obedience to that spirit Mother Whitney,
her daughter, Sarah Ann, Sisters Louisa Pit-
kin, Presendia Buel, Sarah Lawrence, Frances
Swan, Harriet Sanders, Persis Young and
two or three others who were there, all being
my father's wives but Sister Persis and Mother-
Whitney, met the next morning without eating
or drinking. But no sooner had we begun to
offer up our united prayers than the devil
commenced his operations on the three little
ones that were there, mother's Brigham and
her little babe, and Sarah Ann's son, who was
born on the journey from Nauvoo. It would
be one and then the other. The eldest was
playing in the room adjoining, and without
any known cause, he commenced screaming;
floundering and going into the most frightful
contortions, which obliged us to stop and ad-
minister to him and rebuke that spirit in the
name of Jesus, when the child quieted down
and went to sleep. We had no sooner begun
again to seek in prayer for the promised bless-
ing, than we were again interrupted by my
mother's babe screaming, and it had lain sleep-
ing peacefully till then. He was operated up-
on in a similar manner to the other, so we were
under the necessity of again stopping to ad-
minister to him, when he was immediately re-
lieved, and went to sleep. But just as soon as
we commenced again to struggle for the bless-
ing that had been promised, the third one was
seized, and this continued through the day, and
every time the evil spirits were rebuked by
the power of the priesthood, which had been
conferred upon us in the house of God in con-
nection with our husbands. This only
stimulated us to persevere, and that wrestle
continued between the two powers, each seeking
the supremacy, till finally we became satisfied
that we would have to part with one of those
little ones before we could obtain the coveted
blessing. Therefore, when the day was nearly
spent, and we had witnessed the workings of
the two powers—one just in proportion to the
other—the mothers concluded to call Bishop
Whitney and relate this day's experience and
leave the dicision with him, whether or not we
had been directed by the right spirit. We
broke our fast, and the Bishop came about
dusk and spent the best portion of the night
in answering questions and explaining doctrines
and things which the sisters had never before
understood. He had previously expressed
some fears that the sisters might be out of the
way, seeing them meet together so often, but
he changed his mind, for he was filled with
the Holy Spirit the moment he entered the
house. His mind was clear and like a foun-
tain, and we only had to ask and receive, for
our faith was such that it would take no denial.
He told us that we were nearer obtaining what
we had sought for, and the Lord was nearer
than we had any idea of and that our desires
would have been realized had we given up one
of those children. He said it was only through
similar struggles that any great manifestations
from on high were ever obtained. There were
things that he uttered that night that he did
not know of himself, but by the Spirit some
choice truths were revealed through him, and
they were of a most consoling nature to women,
particularly to those who were making a will-
ing sacrifice in helping their husbands to accom-
plish the great and mighty purposes which the
Lord had commanded them to do, and they
were promised that eventually all that were
true and faithful would enjoy all that their
hearts desired, or could conceive of; their trials
and sufferings here would be swallowed up in
the glory they had attained to through obedi-
ence, and they would be enthroned and reign
as queens in the presence of God, eternities
without end.

[Column 2]

	I, being very weary and sad in spirit at the
close of the day, had lain down, and I fell
asleep while he was talking. I was quite
young, and not having been healed as I had
been told I should be, my faith was consider-
ably shaken; but the things I heard Father
Whitney say before I dropped to sleep com-
forted me to that degree that I forgot my
disappointment in the hope of that happiness
which I believed would be mine, in connection
with those I loved, in a day to come.
	Sister Persis Young came early the next
morning, saying that she had been impressed
by the Spirit to come and administer to me,
and I would be healed; that she could not
sleep, and she had come there in obedience to
that Spirit. She had been so long under its
influence that she shook as though palsied
when she laid her hands upon my head with
my mother. She rebuked my weakness, and
every disease that had been, or was then afflict-
ing me, and commanded me to be made whole,
pronouncing health and many other blessings
upon me, nearly all of which have been literal-
ly fulfilled. From that morning I went about
to work as though nothing had been the mat-
ter. Thus did the Lord remember one of His
unworthy handmaidens and fulfill the promise
that had been given by the gift and power of
the Holy Ghost.
	The struggles that we had with evil spirits
were something similar to what the Prophet
Joseph Smith experienced in Far West,
Missouri. He said the devil contended with
him face to face, after he had afflicted his
little child, claiming that he had the best right
to that house which Joseph had purchased, it
having been previously occupied by some
wicked people. But he rebuked the devil in
the name of the Lord, and he had to leave the
house.
	My father also had some contests with evil
spirits when young in years, and also in experi-
ence. The Prophet once requested him to relate
those occurrences and the vision of evil spirits
in England on the opening of the Gospel to
that people. After doing so, he asked Joseph
what all those things meant, fearing there might
be something wrong in him. Joseph's answer
was: "No, Brother Heber; at that time, when
you were in England, you were nigh unto the
Lord, there was only a veil between you and
Him, but you could not see Him. When I
heard of it, it gave me great joy, for I then
knew the work of God had taken root in that
land. It was this that caused the devil to make
a struggle to kill you."
	Joseph then said the nearer a person ap-
proached to the Lord, the greater power would
be manifest by the devil to prevent the accom-
plishment of the purposes of God. He also
gave father an account of many contests that
he had had with Satan.
	These things I have written for the benafit
of my sisters, and I have more which I would
like to make known to them, if my life is
spared.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
		---------------------------
    ﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
			    --------
   Synopsis of Minutes of R. S. Conference of
this Stake, held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall,
Dec. 11th, 1885; Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
On the stand were Counselor E. S. Taylor and
H. M. Whitney, Secretary of R. S., Mrs. S.
Kimball, Secretary R. S. Salt Lake Stake,
Mrs. E. Howard, Treasurer, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Cor. Secretary,Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, and several
branch presidents were seated on the platform.
After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs.
Rachel Whipple.  Continued by singing,
after which minutes were read and approved,
and presidents’ roll called; twenty-three presi-
dents, five counselors and one teacher respond-
ed, Mrs. Horne gave a few words of advice,
and then reports were given from the 1st, 2nd,

[Column 2]
5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, Farm-
er’s, Sugar-House, Big Cottonwood, Draper,
Pleasant Green, Brighton, Riverton and
Granger wards.  After these reports were
given, Prest. Horne made some very earnest
remarks about the Hospital.
   Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.  Singing,
Doxology.  Benediction by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.

   Afternoon session:  After singing, prayer
was offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith.  Singing
again, after which the conference was addressed
by Prest. Horne, who introduced subjects of
great importance at the present day, and en-
treated the young people to be cautious in
choosing their associates, and warned them
against being out at night, and everything that
would tend to evil.  Spoke of the condition of
affairs in Utah, and repeated the quotation
from Scripture. "When the wicked reign the
people mourn." Thought it necessary that the
Saints should be purified, and felt sure that
“God was our Friend,” and made other interest-
ing remarks.
   Coun. E. S. Taylor referred to Bishop
Whitney’s sermon of last Sunday, and felt
thankful she had an opportunity of bearing
her testimony; thought we should gird on the
whole armor of salvation, and felt we could
trust in the Lord, etc.
   Coun. H. M. Whitney, in her remarks,
thought we would be brought into bondage be-
fore we could be delivered by the hand of God.
Said, "All that our enemies are doing is for the
furtherance of our Father’s work; iniquity will
be purged out, and we will have to become a
new people.”  Spoke of the carelessness of
some in attending meetings and receiving in-
structions.  Referred to her recent visit to
Millard Stake, and how the Lord had blsssed
her, although she went alone trusting in Him;
thought deliverance would come to the Saints
soon.
   Mrs. Elizabeth Yates, President of the Re-
lief Society of Millard Stake, made some very
interesting and instructive remarks; exhorted
the sisters to learn all in their power, and re-
minded them of the promises made to the
Saints, the gifts and blessings of the Gospel.
   Mrs. S. M. Kimball, in the course of her re-
marks, said, “Our strength lies in the spirit of
peace we cultivate, and I believe it is right to
pray for the government of this nation, that
its officers may be enlightened and do justice
to our people; the more wisdom we have from
God the greater will be our power; we are to
be disciplined and to be tested."
   Mrs. B. W. Smith said many good things;
realized that we could avoid many sorrows, if
we were watchful and humble, and tried to
cultivate love and peace at home and abroad.
   Mrs. E. Howard believed in short minutes
and in short speeches.  Prayed for President
Cleveland; favored cultivating a spirit of peace.
   Prest. Horne made closing remarks; exhorted
the sisters to pray for the President and
brethren in prison and in bonds; gave other
good instructions.
   Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.”  Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca
Jones.


An Irish gentleman, having received an
invitation from a wealthy but not over-refined
lady, on arriving was ushered into her presence.
She was sitting in the library, surrounded by
gorgeously-bound books. “You see Mr. X.,”
she said, “I need never be lonely, for here I
sit, surrounded by my best friends.” Mr. X.
approached a shelf, and without replying, took
down a volume which he observed to be uncut,
and immediately observed, with a most genial
smile, "I am happy to find, Mrs. W., that, un-
like the majority of people, you do not cut
your friends."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHRISTMAS PRAYER.

		BY M. A. GREENHALGH.

My God, in me Thy mighty power exert,
Enlighten, comfort, sanctify my heart,
Sweeten my temper and subdue my will;
Make me like Jesus, with Thy Spirit fill—
I want to live on earth a life of faith,
I want to credit all the Gospel saith,
I want to imitate my Savior's life,
Avoiding lightness, gloom and sinful strife;
I want to bring my sisters to Thy throne,
I want to love and honor Christ alone,
I want to feel the spirit's inward power,
And stand prepared for death's important hour;
I want a meek, a gentle, quiet fame,
A heart that glows with love to Jesus' name,
I want a living sacrifice to be
To Him who died a sacrifice for me;
I want to do whatever God requires,
I want a heart to burn with pure desires;
Oh, Lord, pour out Thy Spirit on my soul,
My will, my temper and my tongue control;
Lead me through life to glorify Thy grace,
And after death to see Thee face to face.

Meadow.


[Column 1]

WINTER.

	Winter at last is here in pomp and magnifi-
cence; it has ushered itself in. The beautiful
carpet of grass has been replaced by one of
pure white snow. Spring and Summer are
beautiful seasons, so likewise are Fall and
Winter.
	Who does not love, as in the evening they
are seated before a cosy fire, to hear the wild
winds of winter first coming like a low moan
ing whisper, then louder, shriller, and more
fierce, until it seems battling and waging war-
fare with some unknown power. As I have
gazed out into the darkness on such a night
as this my soul has seemed entranced with the
wild weird scene before me, and often, as I
have sat thus on a winter evening, the room
well lit, the bright fire throwing forth a ruddy
glow, Whittier's beautiful poem, "Snow Bound,"
was most forcibly brought to mind.
	Again, who does not love to view the trees
on a clear frosty morning; they stand forth
draped in their pure white robes of snow, and
glistening until one's eyes can hardly stand
the radiance. All, all in loveliness; it seems
that one can never tire feasting on the glories
and beauties that our Father has decorated this
mother earth with. I thank God that I have
been given an appreciative mind to enjoy all
this loveliness of nature.
	How many beautiful winter scenes of sweet
childhood are recalled to my mind. How
with eager haste, hood and mittens were
donned preparatory to skipping off to school,
snow sometimes even with the fence as spoken
of in "Snow Bound," would have a hard
crust over it, so that a passage over it was
perfectly safe. Then, too, there would be the
intermission between lessons, when sports, such
as snow-balling, skating on ice,or riding down-
hill on home-made sleds were enjoyed with
great hilarity and mrith, until the silvery
tinkling of the bell warning us that our time
for play was up, was heard by our unwilling
ears, then all would return with haste and con-
fusion to resume our lessons with glowing
cheeks, quick breath, and fast beating heart
from over exertion. All is so plain to my mind's
view I can almost imagine myself a child once
again.
	The winter brings its pleasures and we
should all try to have nothing to do with any
but such amusements as will ennoble and edify
us. Then again there is so much that mothers
can do to keep their children from mixing up
with pleasure that would be a source of evil to
them. Make home pleasant on winter eve-

[Column 2]

nings. That is one great remedy for keeping
our young from inculcating in their minds a
taste for walking the streets, a place
where either sex will surely meet with so-
ciety that is entirely unfit for children of
Latter-day Saints that are desirous of bring-
ing them up in the paths of righteousness and
truth. A sister, while taking me through her
house, after fall cleaning, for the purpose of
showing me her arrangements for the winter,
after entering the family sitting room said,
"this room I have fitted up neatly for my son
and daughter who work during the day, and
are fond of going out in the evening, especially
my son. I wished to do all I could to make it
so attractive for them that they would not
care to leave home to seek other society. This
sofa I have placed here in this cosy corner ex-
pressly for my son M—— to lounge on
after partaking of his supper, as he is
generally very tired. I have found after once
resorting to this cosy retreat, with book in
hand, with but few exceptions, by the time he
usually went his way down town, he really
seemed disinclined, I might say, (laughing)
too lazy and comfortable, hence his evenings
are really spent at home." What wonder! I
exclaimed, as I glanced around the room. Fac-
ing the south was a large bay window hand-
somely decorated with beautiful plants, some
large, airy and light. Two windows facing the
west were also well dressed with ivy and
other lovely plants. No dark heavy curtain
obstructed the light, but instead were those of
thin pure white texture. A beautiful fire-
place, a center table drawn up in close prox-
imity to the sofa well laden with choice read-
ing, chosen from the book case standing in the
corner. Many things passed through my mind
as I took all this in. I think this would be a
good lesson for all, as we are never too old to
learn. I wonder how many young boys and girls
could be seen on the streets at night, it all
adopted the rule of this sister mentioned above.
No matter how little we possess of worldly
goods we can make home attractive and
pleasant and the long winter evening is the
time when much good can be done.
	IDA.


A BRETON CUSTOM.

	A Vienna letter to the San Francisco Alta
says: On Michaelmas day all the young
women in a district of Brittany who desire to
enter the married state assemble on a particu-
lar bridge, tricked out in all their finery, and
take their seats on the parapet. The eligible
young men from Penze and the neighboring
parishes presently make their appearance.
They scan the features of the seated damsels,
and when at length a swain has fixed his choice
on a particular nymph, he appraoches and
offers her his hand to help her to the ground.
If she accepts his hand for this particular ser-
vice she accepts it for life. The parents are
never very far off on these occasions, and if
they raise no objections, the young couple
shake hands, and the wedding soon follows.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Srimati Swaran Kumari Deyi is the editor
of a well known journal in Bengali, the
Bharati. She is not the only Bengali lady
who has distinguished herself in the field of
journalistic literature, as the late Bama Sun-
dari Devi started a vernacular magazine and
conducted it with ability for many years.
	Lady Dufferin, in her efforts to introduce 
women physicians in India, is encouraged by
the high priests of Bengal. They say that
she deserves the earnest support of every Hin-
doo who has an attachment for his national


customs and manners. As native women can-
not be educated rapidly enough to fill these
positions, the field is an inviting one for the
many young women physicians of England
and the United States.
	In Norway, a lady has a seat on the Royal
Commission to inquire into the condition of
schools. This is the first time a lady has
served on this Commission. And at the fifth
Norwegian school meeting, which was held last
August, ladies were admitted as equal co-work-
ers with the men. The Transcript says: "It
is worthy of note that, while Norwegian
clergyman have hitherto been greatly opposed
to women taking any part in public work,
not a single one, so far, has objected to their
speaking in public at these school meetings."


MISCELLANEOUS. 
	Frankness speaks of those present as if they
were absent; and charity of the absent ones as
if they were present.
	Precept is example written in sand, and
washed away by the tide; example is instruc-
tion engraved on the rock.
	A handsome woman pleases the eye, but a
good woman pleases the heart. The one is a
jewel; and the other is a treasure.
	The perfection of conversation is not to play
a regular sonata, but like the AEolian harp, to
await the inspiration of the passing breeze.
	Education commences at the mother's knee,
and every word spoken within the hearing of
a child tends toward the formation of charac-
ter.
	The man whose soul is in his work finds his
best reward in the work itself. The joy of
achievement is vastly beyond the joy of re-
ward.
	"Quarrel," a little schoolgirl parsed, "is
plural." "Why?" asked the teacher. "Be-
cause it takes two to make one," said the 
child.
	There is a respect due to age, but there is
also a respect due to youth, the lack of which
accounts for many a failure in the household
and in systems of education.
	"Now, you young scamp," said Binks, senior,
as he took hold of his youngest to give him a
"dressing," "I'll teach you what is what!" "No,
papa," replied the incorrigible, "You'll teach
me which is switch."
	An American lessee tells the following with
reference to the late General Grant—"The first
act was over, and we were chatting in the
wings with our manager, when one of the
boys rushed up to tell us that General Grant
and family were in one of the boxes. A flush
of gratified pride mounted to the managerial
face, followed by a look of agonized doubt as
he evidently reflected that perhaps the general
had come in with an order. 'Did you send
him a box, Robson?' he asked me; and, on my
replying in the negative, he pulled a card out
of his pocket, and, scribbling a line on it, told
the boy to take it to the box-office and bring
back an answer. The boy rushed off, his head
full of the general, and returned in a few
minutes with the same card, which he handed
to the manager. A ghastly look crossed his
face as he read it, and, without a word, he
handed it to me. The first line read, in the
rather shaky managerial caligraphy, 'Did Gen.
Grant pay for his box?' while underneath ap-
peared, 'No; but my son Fred did.—U. S.
Grant.' The boy had taken it to the box in-
stead of the box-office."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1885.


THE EXECUTIVE THRUST.
					---
	On Monday, the 7th inst., upon the assembling at
the Capitol in Washington of the body of law-
makers composing the Forty-ninth Congress,
Grover Cleveland, President of the United States,
in pursuance of a constitutional duty, proceeded
to favor them, and at extreme length, with a recital
of the information at his command regarding the
state of the Union; and to give such recommenda-
tions as he deemed might be of service to them
and productive of good to the commonwealth.
The various political, diplomatic and financial
issues of the hour, consisting of such topics as
foreign affairs, commercial treaties, tariff regula-
tions, currency, domestic improvements, naval
affairs, the Indian and Mormon questions, and
civil service, were all met and dilated upon with a
zeal highly gratifying to His Excellency's partisans
and sympathizers, and equally obnoxious to those
of an opposite political persuasion. Passing over,
without comment, all that portion of the document
which is without special local interest, we furnish
space for the homily on the Mormon question, to
which the careful attention of our readers is di-
rected. Much had been hoped by our readers is di-
rected. Much had been hoped by the Federal
ring here and by our enemies generally, from the
first published suggestions of the new Chief
Magistrate upon the absorbing topic; and certain-
ly all such have cause to feel gratified at the some-
what liberal mention accorded it. A close perusal,
however, fails to reveal that venom and that un-
concealed hostility which the President's apparent
apathy had given some reason to expect. Here
are his remarks in full:--
	"In the Territory of Utah the law of the
United States passed for the suppression of poly-
gamy has been energetically and faithfully
executed during the past year with measurably
good results. A number of convictions have been
secured for unlawful cohabitation and in some
cases pleas of guilty have been entered and slight
punishment imposed upon a promise by the ac-
cused that they would not again offend against the
law, nor advise, counsel, aid or abet in any way
its violation by others. The Utah Commissioners
express opinions based upon such information as
they were able to obtain, that but few polygamous
marriages have taken place in the Territory during
the last year. They further report that while
there cannot be found upon the registration lists
of voters the name of a man actually guilty of
polygamy, and while none of that class are hold-
ing office, yet, at the last election in the Territory,
all the officers elected, except in one county, were
men who, though not actually living in the prac-
tice of polygamy, subscribed to the doctrine of
polygamous marriage, as a divine revelation and
a law unto all, higher and more binding upon the
conscience than any human law, local or national.
Thus is the strange spectacle presented of a com-
munity protected by a republican form of govern-
ment to which they owe allegiance, sustaining by
their suffrage a principle and a belief which sets
at naught that obligation of absolute obedience to
the law of the land, which lies at the foundation
of republican institutions. The strength, per-
petuity and the destiny of the nation rest upon
our homes, established by the law of God,
guarded by parental care, regulated by parental
authority and sanctified by parental love. These
are not the homes of polygamy. The mothers of
our land who rule the nation as they would the
characters, and guide the actions of their sons,
live according to God's holy ordinance, and each,
pure and happy in the exclusive love of the father
of her children, sheds the warm light of true
womanhood, unperverted and unpolluted, upon
all within her pure and wholesome family circle.
These are not the cheerless, crushed and un-
womanly mothers of polygamy. The fathers of
our families are the best citizens of our Republic;
wife and children are the sources of patriotism,
and conjugal and parental affection beget devo-
tion to the country. The man who undefiled with
plural marriage, is surrounded in his single home
with a wife and children, has a stake in the coun-
try which inspires with respect for its laws, and
courage for its defense. These are not the fathers
of polygamous families. There is no feature of
this practice or the system which sanctions it,
which is not opposed to all that is of value in our
institutions. There should be no relaxation in
the firm, but just execution of the law now in
operation, and I should be glad to approve such
further discreet legislation as will rid this country
of this blot upon its fame."
	To which may be added the following sentence,
published as part of the message in some of the
Eastern papers, but not transmitted, through some
inexplicable omission, to the Western press:
	"Since the people upholding polygamy in our
Territories are reinforced by immigration from
other lands, I recommend that a law be passed to
prevent the importation of Mormons into this
country."
	Some of the President's statements regarding
this "Mormon" matter, not only in the paragraphs
above quoted, but also in other published utter-
ances with which he is credited, it is easy to see
are based upon very unreliable information. For
instance, few will be found, even among the anti-
Mormons themselves, who regard the "energetic
enforcement" of the Edmunds law as having been
attended with "measurably good results." As
for those fair-minded, honorable inhabitants of
the Territory who have permanent interests at
stake or who desire the welfare of the country
and the return of the prosperity usually enjoyed,
they certainly do not realize the "good results"
spoken of. Neither do those who, because of a
tenet of religious faith, are compelled either to re-
nounce principles dearer than life and recede from
covenants more binding than anything human
can be,or find themselves subjected to the mockery
of a trial and the indignity of an imprisonment, or
seek self-preservation in absence from their homes
and all the endearments which the word implies.
And that the "faithful enforcement" and the
"good results" are not satisfactory even to the
band of conspirators who wish so devoutly our
entire destruction is shown with sufficient clear-
ness by the fact that new and more drastic reme-
dies are continually suggested and urged to cure
the evil they so piously and purely complain of.
Who, then, regards the results as measurably
good? More than this, the less said by the
Executive and government generally about the
manner of the enforcement of this obnoxious bill
the better. If the President can find any cause to
congratulate himself, Congress and the courts
that "in some cases pleas of guilty have been
entered and slight punishment imposed upon a
promise by the accused that they would not again
offend against the law, nor advise, counsel, aid or
abet in any way its violation by others," they
ought to be welcome to all the honor they can
make out of it. It is not a very creditable pro-
ceeding, from a legal standpoint, to impose a
punishment for something which may be done in
the future, while ignoring or passing over lightly
an equally grave offense already plead guilty to as
committed in the past. Nor would the tempting
of weaker men to violate their most solemn oaths,
with simple offers of immunity and friendship,
seem to merit any particular approval under any
circumstances. As to the correctness of the
opinions of the Utah Commissioners, whose
sources of information are so various and so con-
flicting, we have no means of deciding.
	Mr. Cleveland regards it a "strange spectacle"
that the "Mormons" should vote for and elect to
the offices within their gift, men whose religious
ideas and sympathies are identical with their own
--in other words that the people should place in
office men belonging to the People's party. We
wonder what His Excellency would expect! To
a Democrat elected by Democratic votes or to a
Republican elected by Republican votes there
should not be anything phenomenal in the fact
alluded to. To vote for one's friends instead of
one's enemies seems not only a prerogative, but a
duty, clear as noonday. In this the law of Con-
gress is not in any manner insulted, for the law
does not, and the Constitution declares that any
law shall not, interfere with or presume to dictate
in matters of belief.
	"Our homes, established by the law of God,
guarded by parental care, regulated by parental
authority and sanctified by parental love" are
none the less so that they are "the homes of
polygamy." "The cheerless, crushed and un-
womanly mothers" are not the mothers of "Mor-
mon" polygamy. No purer, happier, truer women
can be found than those in these valleys of the
mountains who "live according to God's holy or-
dinance" as revealed and testified to their hus-
bands and themselves; and not only from our own
past and present, but also from our future history
will the fact be demonstrated that the Republic
has and can have no better citizens than the
fathers of our families. We maintain and have
abundantly proven that there are many features
"of this practice" not opposed "to all that is of
value in our institutions." On all these points we,
who live in and are familiar with the system of
marriage so distasteful to American "civilization,"
beg the liberty of taking direct issue with the
Chief Executive, who knows absolutely nothing
about it, other than that which he has been told;
and we consider our statements, even without the
proof of which they are so easily susceptible,
better than his.
	In conclusion, President Cleveland expresses
his desire to approve further discreet legislation
on this subject, and suggests that there be no re-
laxation in the firm but just execution of the
present law--which one sentence is in fact about
the pith and substance of his message on the whole
question. It is, of course, to be regretted that
the Evarts scheme of prohibiting "Mormon" immi-
gration should have been resurrected and thus
dignified in so important a document as a Presi-
dent's message. The fact that the clause was not
telegraphed West with the body of the message
would almost indicate that somebody in the East
was ashamed of it.
	After all, though, the recommendations of the
President and the enactments of Congress, how-
ever favorable or inimical to us they may be, will
affect but slightly if at all the final result. The
Lord of Hosts, the Ruler of the whole Universe,
has certain designs to accomplish, and whatever
may occur will be found pointing toward their ac-
complishment. This far, at least, the Latter-day
Saints are believers in what is termed destiny;
and among the faithful--those who walk day by
day in the light of the spirit--there is no feeling


of uncertainty or fear as to the outcome of the
cause, with which, with greater or less whole-
heartedness, we have all identified ourselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Territorial Legislature meets on Monday,
the 11th of January.
	ON Monday, the 14th inst, the Supreme Court
of the United States decided the appeal taken by
Angus M. Cannon on writ of error from the Third
District Court of this Territory. The definition
of the term cohabitation as laid down by Judge
Zane was the point in argument, and it was affirmed,
with Judges Miller and Field dissenting. 
	THE new Relief Society Hall of the Seventeenth
Ward, Salt Lake City, was dedicated on the 8th
inst., by prayer from Apostle John Henry Smith.
The building is of brick, is 20x30 ft. in size and
cost, with the piece of land on which it stands
and some little incidentals, $1,484.50, all of which
is paid for. Remarks were made on the occassion
by Bro. Nathan Davis, who was Bishop when the
society was organized, Apostle Smith, who suc-
ceeded him in that office, Bishop Tingey, the
present incumbent, and Bro. Alonzo E. Hyde, his
counselor. A report of the society's workings
was also read by the secretary, in which the highly
creditable showing is made that since its organiza-
tion $5,431.83 has been contributed to the poor.
An agreeable entertainment at the house of Sister
Joseph Bull concluded the ceremonies of the
day.


A TRIBUTE OF HONOR.

	At the regular monthly meeting of the Board of
Directors and Executive Committee of the Deseret
Hospital Association, held Monday, December
17th, 1885, the ladies very feelingly expressed their
regret at the loss of one of their active members,
Sister Phebe W. Woodruff. She had been asso-
ciated with them in all their labors ever since the
establishment of the institution, and was always
on hand to perform her portion of the work devolv-
ing upon the Board. Sister Woodruff has al-
ways been recognized by the ladies as wise in
counsel, ever ready with good suggestions, and
had at all times faithfully discharged her duty as
a member of the Board and Executive Commit-
tee.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	Synopsis of the semi-monthly meeting held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
November 28th, 1885, Counselor B. W. Smith
presiding. Singing. Prayer by Mrs. E. B.
Wells, and singing the hymn, “O my Father.”
Minutes of the previous meeting read by the
Secretary, Miss Jane Smalie, and accepted; also
minutes of the Y. L. of the 1st and 20th wards,
and P. A. of the 5th, 10th, 20th, 11th and 21st
wards.
	Sister B. W. Smith expressed her pleasure at
hearing the minutes, and presented some matters
of business pertaining to the Deseret Hospital.
Some sisters were wanted there to do some sew-
ing, which was satisfactorily arranged for the next
Friday. Mrs. Smith also reminded the sisters
that the Relief Society Conference of this Stake
would be held on Friday, Dec. 11th, in that hall.
She then gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters, and prayed the Spirit of God to rest upon
the congregation.
	Sister E. B. Wells said we ought to appreciate
the many blessings we have, and remember to ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things.
Our enemies are trying to push us to the very
extreme, to see if we will rebel; the freedom we
once enjoyed is greatly in contrast with our present
circumstances and surroundings; we have not
the peace and quiet of former days. Urged the


sisters to be wise and encourage their husbands'
brothers and sons to obey the law of God, and not
to falter, and let our conversation be of an instruc-
tive nature, calculated to build up, for the day is
coming when we will need a strong testimony for
ourselves. Spoke of the danger of apostasy, and
the sentiments of some men in authority on the
subject of the present persecutions, who thought
they were necessary to purify the people."
	Sister M. A. Pratt made some very timely re-
marks, and also referred to those who could not
endure the trials and hardships, and if there were
only a few left, and out of these only one half
with oil in their lamps, it gave us food for serious
consideration. She also very earnestly addressed
young wives, counseling them to aid their hus-
bands in performing the duties devolving upon
them.
	Sister Mortenson bore a faithful testimony, and
Sister Mary A. Freeze spoke of home missionary
work; thought we should improve our opportuni-
ties in spiritual labors, and carry out the revela-
tions that have been given, instead of seeking
after any more. We are still a long way short of
being perfect. Spoke of patronizing our enemies,
and thought we ought to make a great effort
against being led away by the vanities of the
world.
	Sisters Mary Gerber and Ann Player each bore
a strong testimony, and the congregation united
in singing a verse or two of the hymn, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
	Sister Osmer and Sister M. A. E. Watmough
each made a few remarks, and bore a testimony.
Some notices of conference were given out, and
meeting adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Mrs. 
Julia Howe.


LETTER FROM DELEGATE CAINE.

	The Omaha Herald of the 11th contains the
following letter written by Utah's Delegate, Hon.
John T. Caine, to President Cleveland:

		HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
					Washington, D. C., Dec. 7.

   SIR.—Since our conversation this morning
additional sensational statements have been sent
from Omaha and Washington, and published
throughout the East, which are so false and such
outrageous misrepresentations of the facts in re-
gard to the actual situation in Utah that I am con-
strained to lay before you the truth.
	The adjutant general of the army apparently
authorizes the statement that "the Secretary of
the Interior and the Attorney General received
reports from the Governor, United States Marshal,
and other officials there, to the effect that the
disposition of the Mormons is quite offensive, that
demonstrations are being made of a threatening
character, and that the slightest accident is likely
to cause a riot in which the residences and offices
of the United States judges, district attorney and
other officials may be mobbed and perhaps per-
sonal violence attempted," etc., etc.
	You, sir, and your constitutional advisers have
been deceived by designing men who seek to
create in the East the impression that the Mormon
people are unruly and turbulent. The ordering
of additional troops to Utah is the result of a de-
liberate attempt on the part of the republican
United States officials there to create the impres-
sion that there is danger of a Mormon outbreak.
The object of this is, first, to make it difficult for
a democratic administration to remove the officials,
and second, to influence Congress to enact legisla-
tion in the interest of a desperate ring of adven-
turers who seek to control the government of the
Territory in spite of the fact that they constitute
an infinitesimal portion of the population and
have no interest in the material welfare of the
great bulk of the people.

[Column 2]
   The Mormons have been subjected to a sys-
tematic attempt to goad them to a hostile act.
The Federal judiciary has persistently ruled so as
to shield disreputable non-Mormons from punish-
ment for "lewd and lascivious conduct," while
Mormons have been persecuted with the utmost
rigor for unlawful cohabitation under the so-called
Edmunds act, which makes it a crime for men to
cohabit with more than one woman. The chief
justice of the Territory and a majority of the
court have held that the Edmunds law applies
only to Mormons, and a man who was arrested
on a charge of debauching his sister-in-law was
discharged by Chief Justice Zane on the ground
that the Edmunds law was not intended to be a
general corrective of morals. When a deputy
marshal, a married man, was arrested by the
police on a charge of "lewd and lascivious con-
duct" with a woman not his wife, Judge Zane on
habeas corpus proceedings promptly dismissed
the accused on the ground that adultery and forni-
cation was not lewd and lascivious conduct unless
it was practiced in public. On the other hand,
prominent Mormons, who had separated them-
selves from their plural wives immediately on the
passage of the Edmunds law, and had endeavored
to honestly obey that law, were indicted for un-
lawful cohabitation, and when they asked the
right to prove that they had not had sexual inter-
course with their plural wives, Chief Justice Zane
ruled that such evidence was immaterial and irrele-
vant; that unless they had publicly abandoned
their plural wives they were guilty of "holding
them out" as their wives, which constituted their
offense of unlawful cohabitation under the Ed-
munds law. It mattered not that in the entire
history of civil and criminal judicature, no
English or American court had ever held that co-
habitation meant other than sexual intercourse,
the Mormons had to go to jail, because they did
not publicly renounce their plural wives.
	In the execution of the Edmunds act the utmost
latitude has been given to the marshal and his
deputies. Domicilliary visits had been common,
and spies and informers had been encouraged to
ply their infamous trade. When a reputable Mor-
mon resented a gratuitous insult by a deputy
marshal on the street, he was fined by Judge
Zane and sent to jail for five days on the untruth-
ful charge of attempting to intimidate an officer
of his court. The stories about attempts to lynch
Collin, and the gathering of Mormons for that
purpose, and the necessity for placing Collin in
the hands of the military for protection, are alto-
gether false. The sensational reports telegraphed
from Omaha about a mob going to Fort Douglas
and demanding Collin are manufactured for a pur-
pose. There is no necessity for additional troops
in Utah. You, sir, as well as your advisers, have
been imposed upon by Governor Murray and
Marshal Ireland. These representations are
maliciously false. The Mormons understand per-
fectly that every effort has been made and is be-
ing made, by characterless federal officials to
provoke an outbreak. The Mormons know that
they would be doing themselves an irreparable
injury by attempting any violence or unlawful act.
They have not, under the most intolerable and un-
justifiable conduct of federal officials, disturbed
the peace or in any way resisted the execution of
the laws. The Mormons ask only for an impar-
tial administration of the laws, and just treatment.
They have appealed to the Supreme Court of the
United States and are patiently awaiting a decision
by that high tribunal on the rulings of Judge Zane.
They believe that his extraordinary interpretation
of the law will be rebuked. The Mormons do
not object to the presence of the troops in their
midst. They do object, however, to the sending
of troops on false pretenses. They object to be-
ing misrepresented and set before the world as de-
fiant, turbulent, and given to mob violence, when
all their history proves to the contrary. Those


who have demanded and secured reinforcements
sent to Fort Douglas have not been animated by
an honest purpose, but with the object of annoy-
ing, and if possible, of goading the Mormons to
violence. The Mormons insist that the reasons
assigned for sending additional troops to Salt
Lake are outrageously false.
	Very respectfully,
		JOHN T. CAINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REVIEW OF THE MANUSCRIPT
FOUND.

TO THE EXPONENT:
	Having perused the late publication from a
verbatim copy of the original "Manuscript
Found," I must say that I was surprised to find
such a shallow document, purporting to be the
"origin" of the Book of Mormon, and written by
the renowned reverend, Solomon Spaulding, who
has been held up to the world as a man of great
learning and piety.
	One would think that those claiming relation,
and who have been so eager to obtain it to expose
"Mormonism," would be thoroughly chagrined
when they discover the style, etc., in which this
"manuscript story" is written, and wish that it
had been burned with other rubbish before it left
Honolulu, more especially Mrs. Dickinson, "who
is getting up a book to show that he, Spaulding,
was the real author of the Book of Mormon," as
well as the priests and people who have hashed
up this story into various shapes as it suited their
vile purposes, from the time that this work called
Mormonism was first proclaimed by Joseph Smith
the Prophet, to prove that it was a fraud,and
that Sidney Rigdon stole the manuscript from a
printing office in Pittsburg. It is a well known
fact that the Book of Mormon was published be-
fore Sidney Rigdon ever heard of Joseph Smith
or the Book of Mormon, and we have cause to
feel grateful for the exposure of this fiction, which
has been the delight of our intolerant and bigoted
opposers to harp upon for the last fifty years, as it
will give the world an opportunity to judge for
themselves of the truth or falsity of this work.
	James T. Cobb, who once made an hypocritical
profession of faith in Mormonism, published a
most vile and insulting letter to President Taylor,
in which he called Solomon Spaulding a "clever,
eccentric collegiate," and "author of the (unper-
verted) romance of the Book of Mormon." Near
the close he said: "You say you are for the truth,
but how can that be, when you defend the Book
of Mormon, which I have proven and can prove
to you, sir, to be a lie." "But," using his own
words, "no lie can last: it has the seeds of its
own death within itself."
	The "humiliation" of such is "inevitable;" if
not here, "beyond the clouds and beyond the
tomb," when he that loveth, as well as he that
maketh a lie shall be judged, and when all dis-
guises and all self-delusions shall be stripped
away.
	HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


[Column 1]
			WEDDINGS.

	The announcement of a wedding often furnishes
me food for reflection. Are the contracting parties,
the young couple who are thus forming a life
partnership, suited to each other, physically and
intellectually? Are they taking this all-important
step understandingly, and after mature considera-
tion? And above all, have they sought for Divine
guidance from the Supreme King, who so well
understands the works of His hands, before doing
that on which so much is depending, which will,
most likely, "make or mar their whole future
lives" on this earth, and no doubt have a weighty
bearing on the life to come? These, and many
other questions, which time alone can answer,
force themselves on my mind.
	There are many things which should be care-

[Column 2]
fully considered by young people, when taking
upon themselves the sacred obligations of hus-
band or wife. It is not an event to be lightly con-
sidered. Do they love each other with a pure,
unselfish love? Have they perfect faith and
confidence in each other?
	These things are indispensable to their future
happiness. Young people, who understand what
the Latter-day Saints do, cannot, in my opinion,
feel perfectly satisfied and happy with a com-
panion who does not possess the Spirit of God,
and is not striving to live a life of honesty and up-
rightness.
	Many trials will be encountered in this relation-
ship; it will be necessary for each to make many
sacrifices to each other's comfort and wishes, at
times, owing to the unavoidable differences in
disposition and training, but whether these sacri-
fices will be made willingly or not, will depend
greatly on the strength and quality of the love ex-
isting between them. They should be ever willing
to overlook each other's faults, and assist by
kindness and gentleness, to overcome and correct
them.
	A young man, before asking a young lady to be-
come his wife, should observe well her character
and disposition, and whether she will be likely to
make a good, faithful wife and mother, and try to
ascertain if she will be united with him in living
his religion and serving God.
	A young lady should, in turn, make it a matter
of sober thought and sound judgment, to ascertain
if he, who has honored her with an offer of his
hand and affections, is worthy of a pure woman's
love; if he is striving to serve God; if he enter-
tains a proper respect for her sex, and if his
actions and general character are such that she
can respect and honor him.
	By thus making a careful selection, and taking a
consistent course, much misery and unhappiness,
discontent and separation, with their attendant
evils, might be avoided, even though "marriage is
a lottery."
	A wedding in our community to-day, when
grand receptions, beautiful wedding dresses and
magnificent wedding cake, with an endless variety
of presents from the guests are the rule, may
make a greater stir in the community, but to the
bride and bridegroom, their obligations to each
other are precisely the same as when, a few
years ago, the young people and their parents
spent less time and means to make a grand dis-
play; when their limited means and joint savings
were spent in a frugal manner to procure the rea
necessary articles to go to housekeeping with;
when they started out together with strong, loving
hearts, and willing hands to make a home. Was
there not more real comfort and happiness then
than now, when they start with all the comforts
their parents have been able to accumulate after
many years of ardious toil? Truly, this is an age
of advancement. It is to be hoped that those
who are thus favored may have judgment to act
wisely, that they may not come to the place where
their parents, many of them, began—with nothing.
							MARGUERITE.

	P. S. The EXPONENT increases in interest.
The household hints; receipts for fancy work,
etc., are a valuable addition


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			SAN LUIS STAKE.

   Minutes of the first semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of the San Luis Stake of
Zion, held at Manassa, Colorado, June 1st,
1885, President Martha E. Smith presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, President S.
S. Smith made a few opening remarks. Said,
"It is the first time the sisters have had an
opportunity of meeting in this capacity in this
Stake. It is just as necessary that the sisters
should obtain a testimony of this work, and be
able to bear it to each other, and to teach their
families and children the principles of the
Gospel, as it is that the brethren should. Some
of the families of the Saints have been trained
almost exclusively by the wives and mothers of
men who have spent their time preaching the
Gospel, and in doing whatever was required of
them." He also gave many other good instruc-
tions.
   The following wards were then represented:
Manassa, by Prest. Hannah Christison;
Ephraim, Prest. A. M. Rasmussen; Richfield,
Prest. M.A. Berthlesen. The different branches
of the Society were in a flourishing condition.
Many of the sisters then bore their testimonies
to the truth of this work, and gave good ad-
vice and instruction.
   Prest. Martha E. Smith was well pleased
with the reports and the remarks made by the
sisters. "We all have a work to perform, and
if we are humble, and desire the blessing of
the Lord, He will assist us." Asked the Lord
to bless all who are engaged in this work.
   After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.:  Meeting opened
by singing, and prayer by Elder S. C. Berthle-
sen. The Stake organization not being com-
plete, Sister Hattie Beers was chosen and sus-
tained as Second Counselor in the Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society; Sister Semantha
T. Boice was chosen and sustained as Secretary
and Treasurer.
   Elder Dalton made some excellent remarks.
Said, "The sisters are entitled to all the gifts,
privileges and blessings in connection with the
brethren, that are within the grasp of humanity.
The Relief Society is one of the best organiza-
tions among the Latter-day Saints." Showed
what relation the sisters sustained to the Church
and kingdom of God; made many other good
remarks, gave good instruction, and bore a
strong testimony to the truth of this work.
Remarks were also make by Bishop Rasmussen,
J. C. Dalton and others of the leading
brethren.
   Sister A. M. Rasmussen was then sustained,
and set apart by Prest. S. S. Smith, as a mid-
wife and nurse to the sick. Sister Beers was
then set apart by Elder Dalton, Sister Boice
by Elder W. Christison, to their respective
offices. A good spirit prevailed during the
conference; we truly had a time of rejoicing
together, long to be remembered by those who
attended.
   After singing "The Spirit of God," etc., and
benediction by Martin Christison, conference
adjourned for six months.
		MARTHA E. SMITH, President,
		SEMANTHA T. BOICE, Secretary.

	LOGAN PRIMARY CONFERENCE

   The First District Primary Conference met
in the Logan Tabernacle at 10 a.m., November
14th, 1885, Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen
presiding. The meeting was called to order
by Prest. Jane E. Molen. Singing. Prayer
by Sister A. Barber. Singing. "Gladly Meet-
ing." Prest. Molen then invited all the Presi-
dents of the different Primaries to the stand.
The First Ward was then represented by
Prest. Maud Burton. She said that the child-
ren of that ward had made a very nice wreath
of hair flowers, which they were going to
present to the Temple. Hulda Hanson, of
that ward, then gave a recitation, entitled,
"The Ship at Sea." The Second Ward was
represented by Prest. Lydia Baker. A song,
entitled, "The Weary Gleaners," was then ren-
dered by Miss Nellie Kimball and Lizzie
Baker of that ward. The Third Ward was
represented by Prest. Sarah Tarbet. Annie
Tarbet, of that ward, then sang a song entitled,
"If papa were only ready." The Fourth Ward


[Column 1]

was represented by Prest. Harriet Robbins.
Maggie Smith, of that ward, then gave a recita-
tion, entitled, "Little Bennie." The Fifth
Ward was represented by the president, Sister
Jacobs. Emma Bunts, of that ward, gave a
recitation, entitled, "It is anybody's business?"
	Sister Jane E. Molen and Eliza Snow
addressed the children and gave them some
very good and valuable instruction. Thomas
W. Pike and Master Steward, of the Sixth
Ward, rendered a dialogue, entitled, "The lost
pocket book."
	The meeting was then adjourned until 2 p.m.
Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet." Benediction by Sister Pike.
	The afternoon session met at 2 p.m., and
was called to order by Prest. Jane E. Molen.
Singing, "Love at Home." Prayer by Harriet
Robbins. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." A
dialogue was then given by two little girls of
the First Ward. Providence Ward was then
represented by Prest. Prosina Trabar. She
said that the little boys of that ward were all
braiding themselves a nice straw hat, and said
that the young ladies of that ward helped her
a great deal. Margaret Campell and Joan
Marler, of Providence, sang a song, entitled, 
"Stay on the Farm." Fannie Farnes, of the
Second Ward, gave a recitation, entitled,
"Christmas Eve." Nancy Thomas and Lizzie
Evans, of the Third Ward, then rendered a
song, entitled. "Sweet hour of prayer." The
Sixth Ward was represented by the Prest. Si-
ter Pike, and Carrie Seward, of that ward, gave
a recitation, entitled, "Did not Think." Lulu
Hammond, John Zollings, Andrew Hammond
and David Thomas, of Providence, rendered a
dialogue, entitled, "Smoking." Miss Kate
Hanson, of the Sixth Ward, gave a recitation,
which was followed by a recitation by Celia
Morrell, of the Third Ward, entitled, "My
Mother's Bible." Tennie Ellis, of the Fifth
Ward, gave a recitation, entitled, "Little Ben."
Sister A. Barber gave the children some ex-
cellent advice. Della Maugham, of the Sixth
Ward, gave a recitation, entitled, "Captured,
but not Conquered." A number of little girls
from Providence then sang a song, entitled,
"Never leave us." Sister Zina Young made
some very good remarks. A little girl, of the
Fifth Ward, sang a song. Bernnice Leading-
ham, of the Second Ward, gave a recitation,
entitled, "Safely Through."
	Prest. Molen spoke a little while to the child-
ren, and the meeting was then adjourned until
further notice. Singing, "Did you think to
Pray?" Benediction by Sister Mary Clark.
	ALICE PEARSON, Secretary.

SUMMIT STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Summit Stake convened in the
meeting house at Coalville, on Friday, Sep.
18th, 1885, Prest. M. J. Atwood presiding.
After the opening exercises, the usual business
was proceeded with, after which the condition
of the following branches of the Relief So-
ciety were reported favorably: Kamas, by
Sister S. Harder; Rockport, E. Vernon; Wan-
ship, A. Boyer; Hoytsville, P. Holt; Coalville,
M. Robinson; Upton, A. Clark. Statistical
and financial reports from the various wards
comprising the Stake were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Prest. M. J. Atwood spoke at considerable
length, referring in the course of her remarks,
to the Relief Society Fair now in progress;
congratulated the sisters upon the result of
their efforts, as shown by the splendid display
of their handiwork there exhibited. Spoke
of her recent visits to the various wards, and of
the general good feeling that prevailed through-
out the stake; exhorted the sisters to continue
on in the good work, and referred to the bene-
fit that the several branches of the Society

[Column 2]

were to the local organizations of the Stake,
and gave some excellent instructions to the
Society officers pertaining to their duties as
such, showing, in various ways, the good
they could accomplish. Closed her very in-
teresting discourse by invoking the blessings of
God upon all the faithful.
	Coun. Ruth Park made a few timely and
appropriate remarks, thanking all who had
taken an active part in aiding the Fair, and
for the very creditable exhibit they had made.
Conference adjourned sine die.

	The Society Fair held in Coalville, on the
17th and 18th of September, in aid of the
new Stake Assembly Building now being
erected in Coalville, was the second gotten up
by the Relief Society, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations of the Summit Stake.
Notwithstanding the dull times experienced
during the past six months, the nice sum of
over eight hundred dollars was cleared by the
Fair, making near twenty-five hundred dollars
that has been raised by the above mentioned
associations towards building our beautiful
Stake House, which, when completed, will be
a great credit to our Stake, and I may say that
the building will be surpassed by none in the
Territory for its architectural beauty and ap-
pearance. Our sisters feel justly proud of their
efforts and success in the part they have taken
in aiding in its construction.
	The completion of the building is greatly to
be desired, as we have no house of sufficient
size to accommodate even a small minority of
the members of our Church at quarterly Stake
conference.
	The Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
desire to express their thanks to all who have
assisted by labor, means, or otherwise, in ac-
complishing so much in aid of so desirable and
necessary an object.
	J. S. B.


Woman's Exponent.


A FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The young ladies of East Bountiful held
their first fair Oct. 28th, 29th and 30th, in the
Central School House. Through the courtesy
of Sister Jane Holt, the President, Sister
Wealthy Clark and I attended; we found it very
nice indeed. It reflected great credit on their
worthy President and her energetic Counselors,
and also on the members, in the arrangement
of the goods, and their responding with many
useful and pretty articles. You will find by
the appraising that they are taught by example
as well as precept. The example, well followed,
would reflect great credit on the young ladies
in general, and would show we were doing
something worthy the name we hold.
	The best hand sewing, a baby dress, finest
case of wool flowers, best door mat and the
handsomest hearth rug, Mrs. Jane Holt; a
lovely quilt, best, pieced by hand, Miss Etta
Burningham; best knitted quilt, Mrs. Hannah
Briggs; next best, Mrs. Emmerette Sessions;
beautiful embroidered table cover, Miss
Caroline Rampton; best knitted hose, Mrs.
Sarah C. Sessions; best embroidered under
skirt, Mrs. Annie Barlow; best wool flowers, on
velvet, Miss Effie Willey; best crochet under-
shirt for child, Mrs. Martha Willey; best
crochet lace, Miss Ada Smedley; best crochet
tidy, worthy of admiration, Mrs. Ellen Wood;
best netted tidy made, Mrs. Archer; best hooked
tidy, Catherine Rampton; a handsome crochet
baby hood, Emily Maynor; lovely netted neck-
tie, Mary F. Call; best silk handkerchief, silk
spun, Mary Waddington; best braided pillow
shams, Elizabeth Evans; handsome wool mat,
Mary Stablie; best artist work, with pen, also
scissors, Rachel Briggs; best painting, on vel-
vet, Margretta Call; best rag carpet, Esther
Sessions; best bottled pears and peaches, Jane


Holt; cherries, Sarah Sessions; Mrs. Rachel
Briggs raised the largest squash, weight 115
pounds; Mrs. Mary Briggs, best display of
cabbage, onions and celery. Judges—Ann
Dustin, Louisa Wood, Eliza Smedley and 
Katie Hollbrook.
	Miss E. W. SMITH.
Kaysville.


CHESTER PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The gay and festive Primary Fair was held
last Thursday, under most favorable circum-
stances, as to the products of the little men
and women of the association, most delightful
weather and the pleasing presence of Sister
Helena Madsen, Prest. of the Stake Primaries
and her two counselors.
	At early morning deft fingers were busy
hanging up those ingenious patch works, called
quilts, tidies, shawls, socks, dresses, etc., till you
were surprised to see so much labor and skill.
The boys came trooping in with their works
of agricultural implements, pigeons, plymouth
rocks, etc., etc., while a table cried "enough,
enough of the culinary department." The
little cooks were consciously proud.
	One little fellow, by the way, a cripple by
paralysis, Ernest C. Candland, showed his
taste by some drawings of animals.
	After feasting the eye on the useful and
ornamental, the feast of reason was introduced
—recitations, dialogues, songs, remarks etc.,
made pleasurable impressions. All were so
wisely chosen and rendered, we cannot mention
all, hence all was excellent.
	The programme filled, that other part that
man loves so much, the sure road to his pocket,
and blessing the viands prepared and waiting,
then filled with the good things of earth, the
Bishop, President Madsen, her Counselors, the
Stake Primary Clerk, Prest. Emma Heyward
and her Counselors prayed heaven's choicest
blessing on the little ones and we all said amen.
	ONE THAT WAS THERE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Oil of lavender will drive away flies.
	Grained wood should be washed with cold tea.
	Mortar and paint may be removed from window glass
with hot, sharp vinegar.
	If paper has been laid under carpet, all dust may be
easily removed with it.
	If a bedstead creaks at each movement of the sleeper,
remove the slats and wrap the end of each in old news-
papers. This will prove a complete silencer.
	Carpets should be thoroughly beaten on the wrong side
first, and then on the right side, after which, spots may be
removed by the use of ox gall or ammonia and water.
	Steel knives not in daily use may be kept from rusting if
they are dipped in a strong solution of soda. When dry,
wrap them in flannel and put them away in a dry place.
	Lemons may be kept for months by simply putting them
into a jug of buttermilk, changing the liquid about once in
three weeks. When the lemons are required for use, they
should be well dried with a cloth.
	A little turpentine put into the wash boiler will make
clothes very white, and will often remove incorrigible stains
from white goods. A tablespoonful of turpentine to a
large boiler, or a teaspoonful to two gallons of water may
be used. There is no smell; the boiling destroys it.
	Nice Plum Cake.—Take six ounces of butter, whipped
to a cream; add the same weight of sugar, stir in four 
whipped eggs, and twelve ounces of flour; beat these well,
and add six ounces of currants, and six ounces of sultanas
and stoned raisins, two ounces of candied peel, twelve
almonds, pounded, a pinch of mace, a teaspoonful of spice,
and one of baking powder.
	Minced Fowl.—Take the remains of a cold roast fowl,


and cut off all the white meat, which mince finely, without
any skin or bone; but put the bones and skin into a stew
pan, with an onion, a blade of mace, and a handful of
sweet herbs tied up. Add nearly a pint of water. Let it
stew for an hour, and then strain and pour off the gravy,
putting in a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Take
two hard boiled eggs, and finely chop them. Mix them
with the fowl, and add salt, pepper, and mace, according
to taste. Put in the gravy; also half a teaspoonful of very
finely minced lemon peel, one tablespoonful of lemon juice,
two tablespoonfuls of flour, made into a smooth paste with
a little cold water, and let the whole just boil. Serve the
fowl with sippets of toasted bread. People often prefer
cayenne to common white pepper.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOMEMADE HOLIDAY GIFTS.

	A square sofa pillow of black satin is effective, powdered
with white daisies wrought in filo floss. Finish the edge of
the cushion with large yellow beads, and decorate one
corner with a large yellow satin bow.
	Autumn leaves may be used with pretty effect for mak-
ing lamp shades, by placing them on cardboard. Or they
may be applied to cardboard cases for flower pots, or to
borders for photographs, and used in a variety of ways.
	A novel style of wall pocket has a crescent and a in
circular-shaped piece of cardboard for its foundation; the
circular piece is covered with peacock blue satin, and the
parts are joined together with over-and-over stitches; a row
of gold cord edges the circular piece and is tied in loops at
the point of suspension, the ends of the cord being tipped
with gold tassels. The circular piece has on it a branch
of the nasturtium vine, with dark red and bright yellow
flowers.
	A pretty ornament for the wall is made by cutting a fan
out of very stiff pasteboard, and covering half of it with
plush or velvet, put on plain. On the other half put folds
of satin, lengthwise, to imitate the folds of a half-open fan.
Around the edge put a narrow band of swans' down, at
the top or handle put a bow, and a cord and tassels. In
the center of the fan put on round or oval Christmas cards.
It should be unfringed. One made of pink plush and
satin is handsome; one less delicate and less liable to be
come soiled can be made of wine colored satin.


IN MEMORIAM

	Of Mary Elijah Etta Haskell, daughter of Thales H.
and Margaret J. Haskell, who departed this life Nov. 3rd,
1885, in Salt Lake City, aged fourteen years and thirteen
d
	Her home is in Bluff City, San Juan Co., Utah. On
the 11th of last July she left her home and parents to visit
her sister who lives in the Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City.
While there, she was taken with the typhoid fever, and
died, leaving her parents almost broken-hearted. She was
a member of the Relief Society, also the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of condolence:
	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause of
truth to finish the labor so nobly begun on this earth in a
higher sphere, we, the members of these Associations, offer
our heart-felt sympathy to the bereaved parents and friends
of the deceased, and although her loss is keenly felt, both
as a faithful member of the Associations and a devoted
daughter, we trust the parents will feel reconciled, know-
ing she was taken from a world of sorrow by a just and
merciful God.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
on the record of these Associations, and that one be sent to
the EXPONENT.
			JANE M. WALTON, President R. S.,
			MARY N. JONES, President Y. L. M. I. A.

Dedicated to the memory of Miss Mary Haskell, who
		departed this life Nov. 3rd 1885.

BY C. E. WALTON.

		Thou art gone, dear sister Mary,
			To mingle with the blest,
		Among the just to tarry,
			In the eternal rest.


Dear one, how much we miss thee
	No human tongue can tell;
But we submit to His decree,
	Who doeth all things well.

Farewell, then, dearest Mary,
	In this life we'll meet no more—
Thou art gone like some sweet fairy,
	And thy loss we do deplore.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in Payson, Utah Co., September 2nd, 1885,
Mary Moor, wife of John Harry Moor, aged sixty years,
seven months and eleven days. Deceased was born in
Beverbee, Nottinghamshire, England, where she was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
June 28th, 1848. She emigrated to Utah with the hand-
cart company, in the fall of 1856. She had occupied the
position of Second Counselor to the President of the Re-
lief Society for over seventeen years, and died in full faith
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Inasmuch as our Father in heaven has seen fit to call
from our midst our beloved sister and Counselor,
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of the
Payson Relief Society, desire to show our appreciation of
her worth by recording her virtues.
	Resolved, that we hold sacred in our memories both
her precept and example. She manifested the gift of fer-
vent charity, and was firm in her integrity to the principle
of celestial marriage. May we strive to imitate her
patience and meekness, her uncomplaining disposition, her
wisdom, her devotion to God and His cause.
		B. J. SIMONS, President.

	Alice Malena Johnson, daughter of Alexander Wilkins
and Alice Malena Barney, and wife of M. E. Johnson was
born at Provo, Utah, February 28th, 1857; baptized in 1865;
married March 15th, 1874, at Mona, Juab Co., Utah; re-
baptized October 10th, 1875, at Fountain Green, Sanpete
Co., Utah; Died November 22nd, 1885, of typhoid fever,
at Huntington, Emery Co., Utah, having buried her in-
fant daughter, Hattie Minerva, on the 18th of the same
month. She leaves a family consisting of a husband and
five small children to mourn her loss. She was a devoted
wife and mother.
	She has been an energetic teacher in the Huntington
Relief Society ever since the organization of the same. She
was ever ready to bear a true and faithful testimony to the
work of the Lord, always liberal to donate both time and
means to help the good work along; was also a member of
the Y. L. M. I. A., and belonged to the Huntington choir
for the past five years, and was always punctual in attend-
ance to the same. Her loss will be deeply felt by the com-
munity, as well as her bereaved family and friends.
	We feel to deeply sympathize with her family and friends,
and pray that our Heavenly Father will comfort their hearts
in this affliction and keep them pure and spotless, that they
may be worthy to meet her in a better world to come. And
let us all be humble and prayerful, and so order our lives
hat when we are called to go behind the vail, we, like her
may carry with us a hope of coming forth in the morning of
that glorious resurrection that awaits the faithful.
		TALITHA C. AVERY, President,
		SARAH WIMMER, Secretary.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
		MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[pointing finger graphic] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[pointing finger graphic] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[pointing finger graphic] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
		"Domestic!"
	The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah

[text rotated right 90 degrees] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years. 

[text rotated left 90 degrees] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[text not rotated] Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

		Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[pointing finger graphic] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.,
		And an elegant assortment of 
	DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and Inf
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 14		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1886.			No. 15.


VALE, 1885. 
In silence, and alone, I watching, wait;
Something I have known is in departing,
I listen for the iron tongue of Time
To start the revealing requiem!—hush!
The clock, my timely monitor, strikes twelve;
'Tis the noon of night—the year is gone—
Eighteen eighty-five is in eternity!
Pass on old year—my hand I kiss to thee,
And no regret is lurking in my heart!
Thou wert a link in life's all mystic chain,
And in thy transit scattered joy and grief
And health and sickness, wealth and poverty,
With all the chequered scenes of earthly life,
To many, thou hast proved a jewel'd link,
To others, sorrow and bereavement sad.
Silence is the only voice whose whisperings
Opening the reservoir of memory,
Unfolds volumes to my spirit ear—
Thou hast performed thy mission unto all,
And now art gone to render thy report.

This link—this infant of eternity
Comes to all mortals laden with events,
And in its record will reveal a tale
Of battles won, of glory o'er defeat.

Life is a mighty boon!  little know we
Its power to bestow or take away,
But all must know that in its transit
Is a school thro' whose exact gradations
Al, the human family must pass!
Blest are those students who enter wisely
And steadily, to learn the lessons taught.
To cultivate those organs, heart and brain,
Organs that germinate immortality!
Developing the divinity within,
That spark that revivifies the dead!

Old year, I do not lightly bow thee out—
My heart is full of gratitude and love,
The hand of God is ever broodingly
Above the righteous—the veil is thin
That hides its presence from the mortal eye;
But the rapt soul in holy adience
Feels the incense of His presence tangibly!

The past is past! and I have no regrets,
For if I stumbled, I a lesson learned,
To walk more wisely and more cautiously;
If sickness, or privation, then I learned
How grand is health—and nearer God I drew.

When all seems bankrupt on the earth to us,
Then cries out our soul, "Nearer, my God, to Thee;"
So to the righteous all is well—pass on [unreadable]
Old year—welcome the child of eighty-five [unreadable]
The new-born Heir, entitled, eighty-six [unreadable]
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, 1885-1886.


[Column 1]

THE DEATH OF THE YEAR.

	In this part of the world October is con-
sidered the month of falling leaves. The poet
John Fletcher understood this, and tells the
light in which he view it:

		"He that will to bed go sober,
		Falls with the leaves still in October."

	Some of Sir Walter Scott's descriptions re-
call many a fantastic scene to those who have
never beheld the landscapes he has painted in
such glowing colors. The following lines,
though having a local application, will suggest
to every lover of nature a picture oft seen;
though perhaps in different framings:

"Autumn departs, but still his mantle fold,
	Rests of the groves of noble Somerville,
Beneath a cloud of russet draped with gold.
	Hoarser the wind, and deeper sounds the rill,

[Column 2]

Yet lingering notes of sylvan music swell—
	The deep-toned cushat and the red-breast shrill.
And yet some tints of summer splendor dwell
	Where the broad sun sinks down on Ettrick's western
		fell."

	Shelley's lines on the dying year possess a
coloring that is singularly autumnal in many
particulars.

		The warm sun is failing,
		The bleak wind is wailing,
		The bare boughs are sighing,
		The pale flowers are dying,
			And the year
		On the earth, her death bed,
		In a shroud of leaves dead
			Is lying.
		Come, months, come away,
		From November to May,
		In your saddest array
			Follow the bier
		Of the dead, cold year,
		And like dim shadows watch by her sepulchre."

	While Tom Hood, in his odd style, gives a
quaint drawing of the approach of winter:

			"Boughs are daily rifled
				By the dusty thieves;
			And the book of nature
				Getteth short of leaves."

	But of all poets, none ever told the tale of
autumn in sweeter or truer tones than did
Bryant:

"The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year,
Of wailing winds, and naked woods and meadows brown
	and sere;
Heeped in the hollows of the grove the autumn leaves lie
	dead;
They rustle with the eddying gust and to the rabbit's tread;
The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrubs the
	joy.
And from the wood top calls the crow through all the
	gloomy day."

	Notwithstanding the great number of trees
and shrubs in this land, one does not see such
a variety of autumn tints as in Utah. The
brilliant colors of autumn in a mountainous
region, clothing the hills, as they do, in such
gorgeous hues that the eye is filled with a
picture of ineffable brilliance, are unknown
here. The reason is easily given. In Utah
the frost comes while the leaf is still in the
vigor of life, and turns it into colors of indes-
cribable loveliness, each species of vegetation
having a tint peculiar to [---]. The con[---]
of endless living colors [---] in that divine
harmony which distance always gives, produces
a combination of such brilliant hues as painter,
in his wildest aspirations, never dreamed of
seeing realized on canvas. But in Ireland, the
frost creeps on slowly. The leaves are already
changing from the prevailing green to a
deadened brown by the process natural to
vegetable life; and by the time autumn nights
bring that nipping air we sometimes feel on
summer evenings, the leaves have lost their vi-
tality, and every gust of wind sends them
trembling and eddying to the ground like snow
flakes, while the boughs are bereft and denuded.
The beech, of trees that are not evergreen,
holds its garb longest and is often a brilliant
yellow, particularly if it be small and the
leaves are on new and tender wood. The long
and ever visible hawthorne hedges soon lose
their apparel; its leaves dry up, curl and turn
a dull dead brown in painful contrast with the
fresh and still green foliage and long arms of
the blackberry, which runs through and

[Column 3]

through the hedges, intertwining itself with the
more vigorous, if not more hardy, thorn.
The fir, the laurel, the yew and the juniper re-
tain their undying green, which winter seems
only to make still brighter. The holly, with
its polished, jagged leaves and bright red
berries, is ever the picture of life and loveliness,
of which the eye never tires, and which is full
of such joyous suggestions as gladden the heart
and bring back the memory of many happy
days that have gone with many a painful sigh
and many a heartache. Viewing a grove in
the distance, some approach to a bright red
may be seen; and there are at times innumer-
able shades of yellow and endless varieties of
subdued brown and russet; but one looks in
vain for those fiery tints which seem to set the
groves aflame and which brighten and make
beautiful the deadest of surroundings, such as
are common in countries of lighter atmosphere
and more sudden frosts. In the meadows,
where trees sometimes stand out bare and alone,
the fallen leaves, partially buried in the grass,
turn it, or seem to turn it, yellow, or brown, or
red and at times a dark, inky hue, as in the
case of the copper-leafed beech. The pathways
are covered with rustling leaves and in glens
and groves and along the banks of the brooks,
where one, in other regions, often times sees so
much that is brilliant and striking and lovely,
the same dreary brown hue only increases the
prevailing monotony.
	We are not entirely bereft of flowers. The
modest daisy still timidly lifts its unassuming
head and offers a singularly vigorous resistance
to the encroachments of King Frost; an
occasional dandelion puts in a half starved
appearance; a few clover blossoms even yet are
warmed by the sunshine when it strikes some
sequestered spot. Half buried in the grass
and always wet with dew, even on the warmest
days, one may still detect a small, sweet yellow
flower, rising from a creeping vine of singular
beauty, but of a name unknown to me. The
hawberries do add life and would do more so
were it not for the absence of that green which
is the charm of the holly. The pink tips of
willow bushes and of "sallies" also produce a
cheerful effect seen at a distance while follow-
ing the windings of some uncomplaining
"burn;" and the golden yellow of the sand
lends a richness to the surroundings and begets
a sense of mantling beauty such as suggests
brighter scenes and adds a lustre to the mental
picture that is felt after the original has been
left behind. The cuckoo left long since; the
corn crake is a thing of the past; the robin still
lingers; but the swallow has departed and that
tiny biped, the wren, is no longer a habitue of
the umbrageous ash. The crow and the jack-
daw now maintain an undisputed reign.
	On a bright, frosty day, there seem to be in-
dications of more vivid colors; but on the return
of dull, drowsy weather (in which the atmos-
phere is charged with moisture, not heavy
enough to fall, but so dense that the smoke
sinks lazily to the ground and hides itself
away amid the fast bleaching grass), the signs
of brightness fade and the dead tints and
monotonous hues return also. I have seen an
autumn afternoon so like an Indian summer
that one could scarce tell the difference. Light,
dreamy clouds floated away through the hea-
vens, softening the bright rays of the sun
which would, however, burst through at times
in floods of golden light, while warm tints
flitted hither and thither through the azure
space or faded slowly away as if wishing still


[Column 1]
to linger in sight of the fair world resting so
calmly beneath. A blue mist, like an ethereal
vail, hung over the earth, and clothed the
hills in a sleepy haze that soothed the weary
spirit and seemed to share the longings and
shed a balm o'er the sorrows of the heart. The
smoke, ascending languidly into the azure
depths above, floated away over the city, while
over all brooded that calm and dreamy air
which one feels on rare Sabbath evenings in
midsummer. In the fields the kine nibbled
lazily at the grass or dozed in the sunlight; the
noisy crow and jackdaw were silent; the haw-
thorne hedge harbored no twittering bird and
the dry leaves that filled the way-side hollow,
were undisturbed by the faintest zephyr. Out
from among the half-bared trees peered the
white-walled cots of the farmer, seeming to be
whiter than ever seen through the blue mist
that hovered round; the mills, with their never
ending and interminable noise appeared de-
serted by the multitude that flock to and from
them morn and eve, enjoyed the stillness of
the tomb; in the city seemed the silence of
death; while the spires of the innumerable
churches lifted their gilded fronts away into
the hazy atmosphere, far above the surround-
ing trees, and seemed, as they solemnly pointed
their fingers heavenward, to pierce the bosom
of the blue vault; the ocean, too, had at last
succumbed to the spirit of rest, for it stretched
placidly away into that distance where the blue
film and pulseless wave melted into each other
and were lost.

"The day becomes more solemn and serene
When noon is past; there is a harmony
In autumn, and a lustre in its sky
Which, through the summer, is not heard or seen,
As it could not be, as if it had not been."

	As the days creep on, the trees and hedges
become bare; the fields lose their verdant hue, 
and though snow has not yet fallen, neverthe-
less summer and autumn are clearly past and
we sadly wait the coming of winter's shroud
that the picture of desolation may be complete.
Each day brings its changes—every tree has
its peculiarities of coloring scarcely less naked
than the tints of the different leaves; and yet
there is a dreary sense of monotony which one
finds difficulty in resisting. There is infinitely
greater sameness of color in spring, but it is
never so oppressive—spring is welcome as the
forerunner of summer flowers and of autumnal
tints no less than for its own freshness and
wealth of green; while for autumn, when upon
us, it never creates that elasticity of spirit we
experience in spring, because every denuded
bough, every dull day, the wailing of the wind
through leafless trees, the brown fields, and
even the brilliantly burned leaf, tell of the
burial of nature and of winter which is doubly
drear to the poor, the hungry, the half-clad
and to the wanderer, even though the comforts
of life may be his in abundance.
	If it is possible to tell a story too often, then
it would seem that the tale of autumn has too
often been told. And yet, there is a freshness
about it just as there is newness in the regular-
ly recurring seasons. Who does not know
what soft skies, purple hills so near and yet
seemingly afar off, betoken! Who, when he
hears the rustle of a dry leaf, as it falls from
above his head and is hurried along by the
playful wind, or listens to the sober cawing of
the crow, or catches the first glimpse of brown
in the shorn meadow, or sees the russet tint
timidly peeping out from among the green and
heavy foliage, that does not feel a subdued
sadness come over his spirits, however buoyant
they may be, however radiantly his sun of life
may be shining? There is a tender depression
in all these, and the "gentle melancholy" they
awaken is among the best moods to which
mankind is subject, for it turns our thoughts
back upon our own past and enables us to see
the good and bad hidden away in the recesses

[Column 2]
of our hearts. All things tend to one common
end, and the suggestions of winter which one
detects when contemplating the falling of a
brown leaf, point to the death of the flowers,
and tell us, though even yet afar off, that
winter with its drear prospects of field and
farm (and yet its cheerful hearths), with its
cold, hunger, and death (and still its light
hearts and joyous carols) is coming with sure
and inevitable tread. The recurrence of the
seasons to those who have the wisdom to learn,
is not without profit; the return of each is a 
silent monitor which Infinite Goodness has set
before the children of men to point a moral
and so adorn the story of our lives as may fit
us for the coming of that hour when we, too,
shall fade as flowers—pass away unnoticed as
a dry leaf in boundless forests—from among
the habitations of the human race, and be
hidden from memory's sight by the snows and
frosts of time. 

"Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
And stars to set, but all,—
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!
We know when morns shall wane,
When summer birds from far shall cross the sea,
When autumn hues shall tinge the golden grain,
But who shall teach us when to look for thee?"
					WANDERING BOY.	
Belfast, Nov. 27th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

	We trust that a large proportion of the
readers of this magazine are ladies, and that
many of them are but just starting upon life's
tempestuous voyage; and, in these days, when
so much is being said about "woman's rights"
and "woman's sphere," many a young woman
is led to believe that because she cannot vote
or hold an important office in the government,
she has no influence in the world, and no res-
ponsibility farther than she is concerned her-
self. Now we believe this to be an error, and
will endeavor to convince our fair readers that
it is such.
	Waiving the question as to whether woman
would make a better legislator or juror than
man, and whether she would be more useful
as an advocate at the bar or a political stump-
orator, than she is as the mistress of a house-
hold and the mother of a family, let us see
in what directions her influence has been and
from the nature of her powers and capabilities
ever must be to mankind.
	There are those who claim that woman may
engage in any pursuit that man can, and suc-
ceed in it; that she may compete successfully
with him in any department of business, in-
dustry or learning.
	To a certain extent this is true, but let us
see how it has been in the past, and then we
may judge more clearly of the merits of the
question. We shall find, if we look back over
the history of our world's progress, that in
material progress man—not woman—has been
the mainspring.
	It was man who explored the trackless
ocean and traced the paths of commerce on his
mighty bosom. It was man who brought forth
from the bosom of mother earth the hidden
treasures of mineral wealth, and invented
ways and means to mold and fashion them into
a thousand forms of utility and beauty. It
was man who caught the lightning from the
clouds, and it was man who discovered a way
to send it pulsing through the wires, bearing
our messages with rapidity of thought.
	It was man who conceived and carried out
the grand ideas of national life and national
government. It was man who discovered and
utilized the giant power of steam, and man in-
vented the printing press, the spindle, the
loom and the sewing machine. It was a man
who discovered America, though Fanny Fern

[Column 2]

did say that he would not have been half s
long about it if she had been at his elbow.
We don't wish to express an opinion on that
point, but gladly admit that he might never
have found the means to carry out his grand
idea, had not good Queen Isabella of Spain
sold her jewels to obtain the necessary funds.
	But let us not for a moment think that be-
cause man has done so much for material pro-
gress, and woman has done comparatively so
little in that direction, that woman has no
great and controling influence upon the pro-
gress of civilization, for she has, indeed, a much
greater influence than most people are apt to
think or willing to acknowledge.
	Adam would probably have been content
to remain in ignorance, but Eve, with woman's
quick, keen perception, saw that the fruit of
the tree of knowledge was pleasant to the sight
and to be desired, and Adam was encouraged
to eat of that which otherwise he might never
have touched, because Eve offered it to him.
What man of the present generation would
not do the same under like circumstances? As
a matter of fact, there are thousands of Adams
to-day who smoke that vile weed tobacco, be-
cause some fair Eve has told them she admires
the smell of a good cigar.
	Many a modern Adam has taken his first
glass of wine because it was proffered by the
beautiful jeweled hand of a modern Eve, and
many a modern Adam has reformed his habits
and morals because some fair and lovely Eve,
who is more to him than all the world beside,
has told him that he must do it, or he can
never occupy the same garden of Eden with her.
	Napoleon said, "Give us good mothers, and
we shall have good men," and to this end he
established schools for the special education of
girls. Napoleon, with his keen perception and
intimate knowledge of human nature, knew
that it is almost always the mother who instils
correct principles into the mind of the son—if
he has any at all,—and it was because—in
that eventful period of history—the mothers of
France were patriots, that the beardless boys
flocked to the national standard and upheld it
against the shock of battle, defending it with
their lives until overwhelmed by the combined
armies of Europe.
	And so it has been in all ages of the world's
history. Had the Spartan mothers been the
opposite of what they were, there would have
been no Spartan heroes; and let us not forget
that it was because of the courage, fortitude
and self-sacrificing patriotism of American
mothers that we were enabled to crush out the
most gigantic rebellion on record.
	Let no woman think because she cannot vote,
become a member of Congress, preside over a
Court, sail a Ship, command an Army, or pre-
side over the affairs of a Railroad or a Manu-
facturing Corporation, that she has no influence
upon society, for such emphatically is not the
case. I know a very excellent lady who never
voted, so far as I know she never wanted to
vote, but she raised up four sons who can vote,
and she taught them those broad principles of
right and justice to all men everywhere, and
led them when they became of age to vote the
same ticket she would have voted, had it been
her privilege to vote.
	If any fair reader of this article regrets that
she cannot vote, let her reflect, that she has the
ear of at least one man who can. We are in-
clined to think but few women are aware of
the influence which women might wield, were
she disposed to labor more earnestly in that
field in which the Creator has placed her, in-
stead of reaching out to untried fields of labor
for which nature has not qualified her. We
believe a large majority of the women of the
present day are willing to work in that sphere
of usefulness which God has in His wisdom as-
signed to them, and, in conclusion, we will say
your mission is an high and honorable one; there-
fore "be not weary in well doing."—Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
A HOLIDAY OFFERING.

TO OUR ABSENT LOVED ONES.

To say you are missed can but feebly express
The weight and the force of the heart's loneliness!
In our homes, in our meetings, in every place,
We miss some loved voice, or some dear, cherished face;
At morn and at eve, in our joys, in our cares,
In all things we miss you, except in our prayers!

With longing we watch for the turn of the tide,
When the Saints shall have rest, and, as gold purified,
Shall arise and shine forth in the glorious light
Of virtue triumphant, of truth and of right;
We strive to be patient, we feel that we must;
We watch and we wait, and in God put our trust.

The struggle is hard, aye! so hard that some die,
And go to the mansions preparing on high;
As martyrs for truth are their bodies laid low,
But their spirits dread thralldom no longer shall know; 
No more are they harrassed and hampered and worn
With the burdens and griefs they so bravely have borne.

How truly, how well one of old did record,
"Yea blessed are they which shall die in the Lord!
And blessed are ye who of sorrow partake,
Imprisonment and hatred for righteousness' sake; 
Or by false accusers denounced and reviled, <exiled>
Reviling not, when ye are scorned and reviled."

Oh! ye true ones! beloved of the Lord and His Saints,
Sweet anticipationa holiday paints;
A scene of rejoicing a bright day of grace,
When each manly form and each fair, queenly face,
Which to-day we must miss, will be with us again,
No more, to be wronged by the base among men.

No more to be sought, as in this dreadful hour,
But free from the wicked, their malice and pow'r.
The Saints shall have peace and be ever more blest,
With Jesus the Savior in heavenly rest;
We'll see Him and hear Him and greet with glad cheer,
The day of His birth and the happy New Year,
And also this day for our <His> Prophet and Seer.
		LULA.
	Dec. 23rd, 1885.


[Column 1]

WOMEN CAN DO MUCH IN THE
PRESENT EMERGENCY.

BY A WIFE IN EXILE.

	Before reading Aunt Ruth's question, "Is
there anything women can do in the present
emergency?" I penned the following ideas,
which I will now give as an answer—if only to
prove the unity of thought that exists among
the Latter-day Saints on the present situation
of affairs, afflicting us as a people, particularly
that class who have entered into celestial
marriage.
	Women of Israel, a crisis has come in our
lives! With a knowledge that God had re-
vealed the law of celestial marriage, which
knowledge brought to us the solemn convic-
tion that it was our duty to obey it or lose an
exaltation in His presence, it became with us a 
matter of conscience, a religious duty, associa-
ted with all our hopes of eternal happiness,
and with the assurance that we would be
honored of God, even as holy women of old
are revered by all Christian nations as the
purest and most exemplary—many of us took
upon ourselves the sacred obligations of plural
wives, with the full understanding that we
could henceforth bear the proud distinction of
honorable wives—not concubines, not bond-
women, not women of any inferior position in
the marriage covenant, for the same ceremony 
that binds the first wife binds also the plural,
and each is under exactly the same obligations.
The children of each in the sight of God and
angels who bear witness of the marriage tie,
are honorable. They are the fruit of lawful
wedlock, not bastards, not underlings, and
need no special act of legislation to make them

[Column 2]

legitimate. They are in every way the equals
of those whose parents had not the faith and
courage and quality of self-sacrifice in their
nature to accept the new and everlasting coven-
ant.
	Chief Justice Zane may openly and mali-
ciously insult the thousands of noble and pure
women and innocent children in this community
whose stations I have thus defined, but that
does not alter facts. We can afford to wait
patiently and bear the reproaches and scorn of
the wicked. It was once a reproach to ac-
knowledge our humble Lord and Savior—
when He was scourged and spit upon and
called vile names and even crucified; but He
said, "Revile not when ye are reviled." We
know that God, for whose cause we are "cast
out as evil," has promised to avenge our
wrongs. Patient waiting brings its own re-
ward, but in the meantime we will not sit
idly down and allow might to triumph over
right without an earnest protest and a brave
struggle.
	We will fearlessly assert our rights as de-
fenders of that glorious document which
guarantees to all the right of conscience and
the free exercise thereof, with "life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness," and we will main-
tain our true positions by virtue of conscience
and birth.
	This nation may cry "unclean, unclean,"
but until its statistics show a better state of
morality under monogamic sway we will
answer back, "First cast the beam out of
thine own eye." Let those who are without
guilt cast the first stone. While the agonized
wail from thousands and thousands of God's 
fair daughters, degraded and debauched by
man's consuming lust, reaches up to heaven
from the soil of America, is not the nation's 
boasted gallantry, aye humanity, to woman a
burning sarcasm, a stink in the nostrils of
Jehovah? Congress may pass laws to impri-
son the virtuous brotherhood of the Latter-
day Saints who look upon woman as God's
most sacred trust, prizing and preserving her
virtue above all else on earth. It may rob us
of the care, protection, and companionship of
those dearer to us than life—compelling us
under penalty of fine and imprisonment to
give evidence that would make us worse than
widows, and our children worse than orphans, 
and then, in our helpless sorrow, justify men
of judicial power, in insulting us in the most
cowardly manner. But, as did that of the
Jewish nation, who put to death their Lord
and persecuted even unto death those who
believed in Him, their sin will find them out—
God will not always be mocked—He has again
spoken from the heaven and as He revealed to
John anciently, He has sent an angel flying
through the midst of heaven having the ever-
lasting Gospel, who cried, "Fear God and give
glory to Him for the hour of His judgment
has come." Then shall we fear man who can
at most only destroy the frail body in which
is s wn the seeds of death and which must
sooner or later moulder in the dust? Or shall
we fear Him in whom dwells all power—in
whose hands are eternal life and joy which He
has promised unto those who will sacrifice
every earthly consideration to obey His com-
mands faithfully unto the end?
	The time has come when our husbands must
entirely, both in theory and practice, take
from our heads the glorious crown of wife-
hood, put us away, disown us, or be humiliated
to a prison cell, wear the prison garb (recently
enforced it would seem in the Utah Penitentiary
for the especial humiliation of the Edmunds
law victims) and be placed on equal footing
with men guilty of the deepest dyed crimes.
	Now the question with us is, shall we agree
to these measures, shall we assist in any way
or even urge our husbands in working out
their eternal condemnation by breaking the
covenants mutually made in sacred places—

[Column 3]

buying their liberty at the price of honor and
thus robbing ourselves of the cherished dis-
tinction of wives? Or shall we say to them,
stand firm for conscience sake, yield not to the
unlawful, unreasonable requirements of bigoted
tyrannical law-makers who seek to bind man's
heaven born right of conscience in all matters
between himself and his Creator! Accept
rather a prison or exile, as some of us women
have proven that we can do willingly rather
than betray you. Do this and carry with you
our profoundest respect, our purest love, and the
power of a sincere and devoted woman's faith.
We will supplicate for you at the throne of grace
for strength to endure each trial, however
bitter, for the Gospel's sake. We will also
teach the little ones born of our holy union to
revere your name and prize your example as
a priceless legacy. But if you choose to
degrade us and our children and humiliate us
before the triumphal rejoicing of the wicked,
who would glory in our sorrow, we will say,
let the sin rest with you; you alone shall bear
the responsibility and God shall judge between
us, and if you renounce your faith in the
principle that bound us to you and made our
lives acceptable in the sight of God, and
agree to live within the law according to the
interpretation of the court, we can be nothing
to you if not a wife according to the law of
God. Your renunciation of that law severs
every tie. Even if your choice would be to
graciously (?) exalt a woman to the appar-
ent position of a wife without any semblance
of legal recognition, you cannot claim her as
such according to the law of the land which
forbids a second marriage while there is a 
living and undivorced wife. The woman who
accepts this position is not a wife before God
or man, and she as well as the man will fare
poorly in heaven and on earth also, unless
Judge Zane lives to favor them with some of
his marvelous rulings such as created the status
which they will occupy.
	City of Refuge, December 26th, 1885.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Jessie Patterson, who ran as an inde-
pendent candidate for Register of deeds in
Davis county, Kansas, beat the regular Repub-
lican nominee by 286 votes, and the Demo-
cratic candidate by 299 votes.
	Various papers express their suspicion that
Miss Cleveland wrote that part of the Presi-
dent's message which deals with the Mormon
question. Perhaps she did. Those glowing 
sentences in praise of social purity would cer-
tainly come with a better grace from Miss
Cleveland than from her distinguished brother.
—Woman's Journal.
	The Hon. B. Gratz Brown was the first man
to introduce a woman suffrage bill in the United
States Senate, in 1867, and he advocated the
measure in an excellent speech. It took a
brave man to do it in those days, and the mat-
ter made a great sensation. Then the idea was
received with almost universal ridicule. To-
day the movement has advanced so far that
even its opponents acknowledge it to be certain-
ly "coming."
	The English Women's Suffrage Journal is
ubilant over the result of the elections, so far
as known at the time it went to press. Out of
the 292 members elected, 152, it says, are
known friends of woman suffrage; 70 are known
opponents, and 70 are doubtful. As these
figures relate to the first part of the elections,
when the Tories were largely successful, and
as the Liberals are more generally in favor of
woman suffrage than the Tories, the prospect
is very bright. Mr. Parnell, who holds the
balance of power, is a pronounced friend of
he movement.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second-
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1886


[Column 1]

FROM SALT LAKE TO NEW YORK.

	Leaving home abruptly may seem a little strange
to some of our readers, but even editors need a
change, if not a rest, and so, without further
apology for going, we will tell those who care to
know that on the morning of the 16th of December,
we said "good bye" for a short season to Salt
Lake City, and took the D. & R. G. Railway train
for the east. It has become proverbial that this
route has the most charming scenery of any road
adjacent to Salt Lake.
	The first place with which we were not already
familiar was Spanish Fork canon, though we had
heard it gloriously described by others. The
scene was wintry, but very fine, and although not
so beautiful as it would be in summer, yet suffi-
ciently picturesque to make it interesting. At
Price we saw, for a moment or two, young Bro.
Williams, who, with his brother-in-law, B. F.
Cummings, is putting up quite a pretentious store
at that settlement, which is, by the way, the last
"Mormon" town on the route. The next place of
special attraction and importance in the way of
scenery was Castle Gate, which fascinated one
with its impregnable rocky walls that seem to
frown down upon the traveler like formidable giant
structures. At this writing it is impossible to de-
cide whether mountains covered with verdure, or
wild, wierd rocky heights are the most attractive.
It is not surprising that the Indian loves these
giant rocks and their surroundings, for it must be
something sublimely grand to hear the roar of
the cataract, or the dashing, foaming river in these
mountain regions, and the eagle's shrill call and
echo reverberating among these rocky passes;
and when the wind sighs and moans along the
new fissures or cuts, and bursts forth into a tre-
mendous shriek as it gushes out into the broader
opening, it has a tone of the strength of an agony
that breaks down all the barriers of conventionali-
ty, vents itself in wild sounds that pierce, as 'twere,
the very heavens. The imagination has ample
opportunity for play in gazing on such stupendous
wonders in nature as Castle Gate, and the sur-
rounding similar rocky castles, towers, turrets and
pillars.  One can readily believe there were secure
hiding places here for the Gadianton robbers in
such mountain fastnesses. In one's mind many a
strange tale of gypsies, giants, robbers and
brigands might be formulated in thought while
passing through Castle Valley, though one had
not the time or conscience to weave them into
romances to be given to the public. Soon after
passing Castle Valley going eastward, daylight
begins to fade away, and the outlines of these
wondrous pictures grow more dim and indistinct,
but a trifle more weird still, and fainter and fainter,
until the moon and stars announce the approach
of night.
	Learning that the train would pass through 
Black Canon during the night, we asked the
porter to call out, that we might awaken and see
something of this shadowy and dismal region; he
did so, and as it was a clear and starlit night, we

[Column 2]

had the satisfaction of peering out into this dark
and lonely place and observing the effect when the
fitful flashes of the light from the train played
among the black shrubs and trees and over the
mountain sides like a veritable "will o' the 
wisp," making a picture gloomy enough to sug-
gest ghosts, hobgoblins and nymphs of the
wood.
	The following morning the conductor informed
the passengers we should soon reach Marshal Pass
and Soldiers Summit, and in order to see all that
was possible, we went out on the rear platform.
The train was passing through snow sheds every
few minutes, and turning round and round the
mountains, the road seemingly forming a horse-
shoe at each of these turnings. Around these
high and steep mountains, which look nearly per-
pendicular, the railroad is cut into the side of the
mountain, and the train [looks as if it might be
precipitated at any moment into the yawning
chasm below. Many people, it is said, become
very nervous while passing over this part of the
way, but to us all fear was forgotton in the won-
der and grandeur of the marvelous scene with
which we were surrounded, and in admiration of
the adventurous and ambitious men who had pene-
trated this mountain region and prepared the way
for the iron horse to enter, snorting aud shrieking,
to waken up again to life and activity these lonely
and deserted regions, where the wild beasts and
birds of prey had held unlimited and undisputed
possession for generations past. Marshal Pass
has often been graphically described by tourists,
and one need not stretch the imagination at all to
give it importance, as it speaks for itself in terms
not to be mistaken, and all one has to do is to
gaze and admire. The Ouray Peak is pointed
out, and one has a fine view of it now and again
as the train whirls round and round. The Royal
Gorge and Grand Cañon of the Arkansas follow
in quick succession as the train travels rapidly
through these magnificent scenes, and one can
only remain perfectly silent and absorbed in con-
templation of this grand and glorious natural
scenery which the country affords to the eager
traveler. Language utterly fails to express the
impression this sublimity of grandeur makes upon
an ardent lover of nature; the most potent demon-
stration one can give to one's feelings, is to
quote the words of the inspired prophet, "Great
and wondrous are thy works, Lord God Al-
mighty."
	This route is worth all the risk one makes in
traveling over it, and for beauty and attractiveness,
surpasses anything we have yet seen in the way
of natural mountain scenery. All who travel for
pleasure or excitement or to view the wonders of
the world, should take at least one trip over this
far-famed railroad route. The train reached
Pueblo at 4.20 p.m., and then we alighted at a
large and comfortable station, where we were to
wait until the arrival of the A. T. & St. F. train,
about one hour and forty minutes. Most of the
passengers who were there to change cars took a
stroll around the city, for it is quite a town in-
deed, with handsome streets, stores, restaurants,
etc. We were under the impression that this was
the place where some of the Mormon Battalion
wintered, but on inquiry we were informed that it
was a little distance away, at old Pueblo, and we
had not time to go there. At six o'clock we were
again on the train, and going forward with all
possible speed.
	There was a little girl on the car who attracted
the attention of the passengers, it was a sort of
rarity and we enjoyed it very much; indeed it was a
treat to have a gladsome little creature like her
among so many selfish and matter of fact men, for
there were but three women in all. It made the time
time pass more pleasantly, for there was no scenery
to admire in that part of the journey, at this season
of the year.
	We reached Kansas city the next evening, just

[Column 3]

in time to catch the Chicago and Alton train. On
this road we passed some very pretty and stirring
villages and large towns, and the view was quite
pleasing, and as the evenings were moonlight, one
would not tire of looking until a late hour. There
was a sick man on board for whom we felt great
sympathy and for his wife, who by the way was
very agreeable and sociable; we learned that they
had been in Arizona, for some months past, in the
interest of the Smithsonian Institute at Washing-
ton. They know a number of the Mormon people
down there. The lady spoke freely of her work
and tastes, and of the great contrast in her life;
that in the Summer and Autumn she was generally
out in the mountains with her husband, exploring
for relics and curiosities in the interest of science,
a great part of the time on horseback, and in the
Winter, mingling in the life and society of the
Capital of the Great Republic. They were very
pleasant people and not at all lacking in courtesy
when they found they were conversing with a
Mormon.
	The train ran in to the depot at Chicago, at 2.30
p. m., and at 3.30 we were again steaming out of
that great city. One cannot see much in an hour
therefore we only had a ride in a coach or transfer
from one depot to another, to catch the Chicago &
Atlantic Express. While at the station, we heard
a conversation about Utah, between some ladies
who had been out there, and one who had not been
so far west. It was rather interesting, and more in
favor of the people than against them. There
were several men on the cars who occupied all
their time playing cards, while others discussed
science and religion. There were two ministers
and two Bible missionaries, at least so the con-
ductor said. A Japanese grandee occupied the
state room with his gentlemanly and white com-
panion, and they played cards and drank lots of
champagne. His two sons had a section next to
the state room and were reading books in the
Japanese language at first, but after a while they
commenced playing cards too. They were very
nicely dressed and very fine looking, yet their
faces were scarcely so pleasant and intelligent as
their father's.
	The train had to wait over at Homersville in
New York State, and the men in the Pullman car
were very much annoyed; from that time they
grew more restless and excited, and some became
quite angry, and the language they used was not
very choice. However, all things must have an
end and so had this trip and the train came into
Jersey City at ten minutes past one in the morning.
O, the noise, the hurry, worry, bustle and con-
fusion; immediately we were in a "bus" and being
ferried over to New York, where the noise was still
greater; and after driving over the stony pave-
ments, and it seemed going over miles and miles
of streets we alighted at the Grand Central Hotel
on Broadway, safe and well, having had no acci-
dent or even unpleasantness on the way. In our
next we will tell our readers something about New
York City, what we saw and whom we met, where
we went, and perhaps get as far as New Eng-
land.


A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	"A happy new year!" Would that each day of
life might be as joyous to our friends as is the
sound of this old familiar phrase. Four little
words that never can grow old, but only sound
better and cheerier each succeeding year, echoing
from every side as friend meets friend. In their
utterance the voice assumes a gayer tone, the face
a brighter aspect, the hand a heartier clasp and
the heart a lighter throb; sorrow seems to vanish
from the mind, the past is recalled as a gentle
dream, and the future gleams before us only as
some brightly colored picture. Fain would we
pause upon the threshold and think of the coming
year as only a succession of bright and happy


days, where peace, joy and happinesa will reign
in every heart; but turning for one brief moment
to the year just past, the view is not all so bright
as we should love to recall, for we see our homes
overhung with fears. We know that among the
homes of our people are many hearths where
some dear one is missing, driven forth from the
society of loved ones by the unjust decrees of
wicked men. Imprisonment and exile deprive us
of the society of our loved and revered fathers
and husbands, and falteringly as a little child first
attempts to walk,or a young bird to try its pinions,
we draw aside the curtain to glance for one brief
moment into the dim and mystic future. Gazing
into the picture, which but a moment since was
all so bright and gay, we discern clouds and
shadows; yet what do they signify? They but
mellow and enhance its beauty a thousand fold.
The life that has endured all—sunshine and
shadow combined—tells ever the most beautiful
and touching story. Though we cannot foretell
the coming events, we know by our past history
that when our enemies sought to destroy us, God
prospered us the more.
	Our greatest joys have ever been attained
through trials most bitter and severe. It was not
the brightest prospect for our people when they
were forced to leave their homes and dear ones in
Nauvoo and wander over the trackless desert in
search of a resting place—no green and beautiful
valley surrounded with the grandest mountains,
watered by the purest streams, dotted with the
loveliest lakes and filled with the happiest homes,
such as they now have—beamed before them;
they only saw a long, weary journey, leading they
knew not whither, and bringing them they knew
not what; but the journey was not all pain, it had
its pleasures, too, and who doubts but that the
hearts that endured the hardships were far happier
than the ones that caused them, and we know that
the homes built in Zion were far more peaceful
than the ones left in Nauvoo. What is that city
now? Not prosperous as it bid fair to become,
but only a deserted village, saddened with strange
memories and stained with martyrs' blood. We
have nothing to regret in looking back, for our
Heavenly Father has ever guarded and guided us
through the bitterest trials, and as the past has
been so may the future be; in looking forward we
have nothing to dread. The past has ever taught
us how much better it is to suffer wrong than to
do wrong; that joys are ever mingled with our
pains, and that the brightest rewards await the
greatest sufferers.
	As we look further into the picture, we discover
that the shadows but faintly conceal brighter
scenes, even as the clouds sometimes cover from
view the brightest stars; we must not long to re-
move them, but await the course of time.
	To all our readers we extend wishes of joy and
happiness for the coming year. May it be the
brightest of your lives. If any of you have fears
or sorrows, may they be removed and healed, and
may health, peace and prosperity attend you all.
Once more—"a happy new year."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NEW YEAR THOUGHTS.

	As we pass from out the portals of the old year
and pause upon the threshold of the new, hesitat-
ing with hand upon the door bell, reflecting on the
probable results of ringing for admittance into the
undiscovered future, what a throng of busy thoughts
sweep down upon the memory and imagination!
The faded pictures of the past, the unfinished
paintings of the present, the dim and dreamy out-
lines of the unattempted yet ever glorious limnings
of the future. All that has been done, all that is
now doing, all that remains "to do or dare." Har-
vests already reaped, grain that is still growing,
latent germs that lie sleeping under the surface of
our lives, seeds of coming events which our busy

[Column 2]

hands are about to strew upon the fertile bosom of
the future.
	All these in swift procession pass before us,
rising like stars upon the mental firmament, giving
light unto the darkness, guiding the way-worn
raveler of Time toward the goal of his earthly
pilgrimage, or spreading like mists along a lower-
ing sky to remind him of perils that are past
bringing again to memory the phantoms of bygone
errors and their consequences.
	The beginning of a new year. The turning over
of another leaf in the great book of human des-
tiny. Is it not truly a time for thought—a season
for solemn meditation? The past is as a page that
is written, blotted and blurred it may be in places
—for no imperfect human hand ever held the pen
of fate with steady poise—but written, neverthe-
less, written and irrevocable. The present—it is
nothing; it is only the hinge of another leaf, the
pivot upon which the future becomes the past, the
altar on which the fires of hope are converted into
the ashes of memory. The future alone is avail-
able. Pure and spotless as a field of untrodden
snow, it is the blank leaf of life upon which may be
written whatsoever we will.
	Is New Year's not a time then for sober reflec-
tion? May not the future repeat the past? Will
not similar causes at all times have similar effects?
Will not every seed sown produce after its kind?
Will not each word and deed which we consign,
ofttimes so carelessly, to the fruitful and unfailing
womb of futurity, come forth to meet us at the
judgment seat of eternal reward and retribution?
Will not the same hand which scatters the seed,
hereafter hold the sickle, and the upright form now
striding over the furrows of its fate, ere long be
bending beneath the burden of the harvest home?
	Such are questions we all may ask, subjects
upon which we well may ponder. From the lofti-
est to the lowest estate, men and women are but
stewards for time; they must answer to the Great
Judge for the "deeds done in the body," and ren-
der to their Lord at His coming an account of the
talents with which they are entrusted. All are
accountable beings, from the king upon his throne
to the pauper in the street; from the ermined judge
to the prisoner at the [---] free but responsible
agents of the same Mighty Master, who endows
men according to their merits or His own will, and
sends them into the world to cope with evil and
overcome it with good. Here is one placed in
position and invested with authority, an elected or
hereditary ruler of the masses; there, one who has
accumulated millions, standing like a golden god
upon the summit of a shrine erected to the honor
and glory of Mammon. Independent, each may
suppose, and truly so as to wealth and volition, but
nevertheless accountable for his every act, of
tyranny and injustice, folly or crime, and for every
dollar of his wealth,stolen or honestly earned,wasted
or carefully spent, centralized upon self, consumed
upon his lusts, or utilized to benefit and bless
humanity. Another has power of intellect, the
fiery eloquence of the poet or the orator, the pene-
trating research of the scientist and the philoso-
pher, the legislative or military mind of the states-
man and the soldier. Each,in all his greatness, is but
a factor in God's universal plan, amenable for the
way in which his genius is displayed and the effect
of his influence and works upon the lives and lib-
erties of those around him.
	And what is true of individuals, is true also of
societies and nations. The parable of the talents
has not only a personal, but also a social and polit-
ical application. Our own nation, the most highly
favored on earth, incomparable in almost all that
constitutes earthly greatness, is likewise unrivalled
in responsibility before Him who holds in His
right hand the destinies of nations, and who set-
teth up one or putteth down another according to
the judgment of His will. An awful weight rests
upon the shoulders of men in high places. And
what will be the answer of some, aye of many,

[Column 3]

who, instead of using their all but omnipoten
powers to protect the weak, succor the needy,
abase the proud and exalt the lowly, prostitute
both power and authority to rob the poor and
trample on the defenceless.
	And, Latter-day Saints, what of ourselves; we
who profess more, possess more and hope for more
than any other people on earth? Are we not of all
men and women most accountable, and will we be
held guiltless if we neglect, pervert or unwisely
use the priceless privileges and blessings entrusted
to our care? Is the Priesthood a bauble, the Gos-
pel a dream, or are they what we solemnly declare—
the power of God unto salvation, the only keys
that will unlock the eternal gates of glory? Real-
izing this, what manner of men and women ought
we to be?
	At the beginning of another year, let these
things be remembered. Let there be no backing
down, no relinquishment of right, no surrender
of sacred principle. God will justify those who
suffer for His sake the pains and penalties of in-
justice. He will rejudge the "justice" of the
tyrant, and hypocrites and traitors shall tremble
before Him. They who confess Him before men
shall never be ashamed or confounded, and them
will He own before the angels in heaven. Blessed
are they that endure unto the end. Blessed are
they who are faithful over a few things, for they
shall be rulers over many things hereafter. Happy
are they who keep their second estate, for they
shall be added upon eternally. Happy are they,
thrice happy, who seek first the Kingdom and its
righteousness, for all things are theirs, and they
are Christ's and Christ is God's, forever and ever.
	O. F. WHITNEY.


A TROPICAL PICTURE.

AS SEEN BY HOMESPUN.

	One of the commonest and tritest of sayings is,
that there are two sides to a picture. Nothing
could be truer; and as one of my friends remarked
the other day that I saw but one side, and that
generally in an exaggerated form, I shall prove to
her by this letter that I am quite capable of seeing
both sides, if I only choose. So I invite you to
gaze first

ON THIS PICTURE.
	I sit in my own doorway, facing the now golden
west, the sun whispering to the dimly outlined
moon behind a bank of dusky purple clouds, their
edges glistening with rosy pleasure at the approach
of their king; the mountain sides are clothed with
thick groves of trees, whose green crowns are
never cast to earth by winter's cold hand. The
little vale lying between my home and the hills is
checkered with rice fields, dotted with broad leaved
bananas, stately cocoanuts, and many other trop-
ical trees; here and there a grass hut, showing
olive and brown against the bright foliage, with
one or two whitewashed cottages, rest quietly in
the bosom of the pretty valley. At my feet (my
house is on a hill side) is one of these white cot-
tages, and it boasts a pretty garden of geraniums
and chrysanthemums.
	The cows in the adjacent green fields low mus-
ically for their young. The dusky natives clad in
bright colors, and graceful as panthers, go laugh-
ing past my door, from their work in the sugar
fields.
	I hear, away off, the voice of a child chanting a
weird mele (song) in the soft sounds of his native
tongue. I step softly out into the balmy twilight,
and my feet press down the velvety grass that
covers every inch of this my island home, and
look eastward to the sea. How dimly musical
sound the waves as they dash, now on to soft
sand, and anon up to the rocky promontory that
rises abrupt and grey away out in the deep sea.
	The restless waters look dark and purplish in


the gathering dusk, and the tiny island half a mile
out, looks, in this light, like the back of some
huge monster of the deep.
	In the Mission House, away a few rods to the
right, a flute breathes out the glorious tones of the
Miserere, and anon this melts into a quartette of
splendid voices singing Mendelssohn's Farewell
to the Far West.
	I listen with bated breath until the wide dark-
ness enwraps me in soft clinging arms, and then
go softly in with the faint tones of the voices still
reaching my ears! And so, the tropical glory of
the sunset is once more a thing of the past!
	Now gaze on

THAT (THIS) PICTURE.
	The sun is setting in a mass of dark clouds
that threaten to pour down, drenching us and
spoiling the sugar cane now over-ripe in the
fields.
	The little valley is filled with rice fields, tended
by dirty Chinamen. The fruit trees may be never
so heavily loaded, they bear nothing for me.
	The grass huts may look picturesque now, but
one doesn't hanker to go inside, for they look un-
tidy. From the white cottage at my feet, a woman
comes out with blowsy head and her one article of
clothing, her dress, tucked clear to her waist.
	The grass is the shelter and home of thousands
of big centipedes.
	As the sun lowers, the frisky mosquito sails
hummingly round my head. I go out for a breath
of salt air, and admire the sea in the distance,
wishing the distance was a deal less, for it is too
far for me to walk down there.
	The natves go home, shouting to each other in
their harsh loud unmusical voices, making the
smooth vowels of their language sound like the
gutterals of the German.
	They commence their everlasting practice over
at the Mission House, and I am glad to go in to
get away from the darkness and noise.
	Inside, I step very carefully, for fear of disturb-
ing a wandering scorpion or centipede.
	If I feel at all lonely, I have plenty of company
in mice, rats, scorpions, centipedes, cockroaches,
fleas, mosquitoes, lizards, and millions of ants.
	All these are not visitors, but co-residents of my
little 12 foot square room. The neighbors' chil-
dren whine sleepily, the dogs bark lustily, the lamp
burns dimly, and thus commences another evening
away from home and Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	My mother's and Sarah's babies which were
so peculiarly operated upon by the destroyer
continued sick from that time, and it seemed
as if death was determined to claim one or both.
Sarah Ann's appeared the worst some of the
time, and then it would be my mother's, and
the witnessing the young mother's grief, who
plainly saw her infant failing day by day, so
touched my mother's tender heart that she
made up her mind to make an offering of her
own little darling inasmuch as the Lord re-
quired one of them, praying as she made the
sacrifice, that He in His tender mercy, if it
would be acceptable in His sight might take
hers and spare Sarah's. Did this not mark
her as one of the elect of God, who fought
manfully against the flesh, the world and the
devil?
	In those scenes we were supplied with that
spiritual armor necessary to sustain the com-
bat with the inveterate and subtle foe, whose
power and devices were being made manifest
in our midst. From the moment that my

[Column 2]

mother made this offering her babe began to
improve, and only a few days before another
pure spirit had taken its flight from this sor-
rowing vale of tears, and another doting heart
was almost broken as she followed its little
body to that lonely spot on the hill-side which
had been dedicated as a burying place for the
dead. There weary pilgrims could rest for a
season, and the dear little innocents, whose
spirits ascended up to the Father, bearing re-
cord of the inhumanity and wrong which had
been met with in this world by those who ren-
dered obedience to the truths revealed by the
blessed redeemer for the salvation of the hu-
man family, and had been driven from their
homes in the bleak month of February 1846
to suffer in the wilderness in so cruel and heart-
less a manner. The sweet comforter was still
with us, and from that date the destroyer was
staid in our house.
	Among the marvelous instances of faith
which I witnessed, was in the family of Bro.
Lyman Whitney, a brother of the Bishop.
Lyman was then at work in the state of Mis-
souri. One of his babes—its mother being his
second wife—was lyiug sick unto death. She
told us that it had not swallowed any thing
for two days, and its eyes were dried up so that
it had not been able to close them for some
time. My mother, Mother Whitney, Sarah
Ann, Sister Presendia, myself and one or two
more, were called to go and administer to the
sick babe. Sister Presendia first moistened its
eyes with milk and water, then it was washed
and anointed, and as many as could, laid hands
upon it, and all of us unitedly raised our hearts
to God in its behalf, Presendia being mouth.
We had no sooner said amen, than it opened
its eyes and began to wink and look around,
and soon after it took nourishment. The
mother and her sister who were living together,
were both charged to watch it closely and not
leave it alone for a moment, or the destroyer
would grasp it. They watched it faithfully
through the rest of the day and during that
night, but as it appeared so much better in the
morning, they, not realizing how the destroyer
was lying in wait for it, left it sleeping in its
cradle long enough to go into an adjoining
room to breakfast. When the mother returned
she found it struggling in the arms of death.
Then she fully realized the meaning of the
words of warning which had been spoken by
the spirit and power of the Holy Ghost.
	I remember instances wherein the evil one
entered persons that were not sufficiently posted
—not having had enough experience to be able
to distinguish the difference between the opera-
tions of the two spirits—good and evil. There
are those living—sister E. B. Wells being one
of the number—who will readily testify to
these statements. The following I heard from
Sisters Presendia, Laura Christine, Sarah
Lawrence Kimball and others. The circum-
stance transpired one evening at the house of
Sister Miller, whose name is now Finch, where
a meeting was being held. A few sisters who
came had not been present at any of the pre-
vious meetings; and two or three of them it
was said, had made light of them, and the gift
of tongues, etc, which the sisters testified they
had frequently enjoyed with a great outpouring
of the Holy Spirit. Satan, it seems, came also,
and they aver that his face and shoulders were
plainly visible through the window. They not
only saw him, but heard his awful footsteps as
he walked around the outside of the house, after
which there were individuals attacked, and the
power was so terrible, that it was only by
mighty faith and the power of the priesthood
that the destroyer was rebuked from their
midst. At his first appearance, some who had
never before witnessed a conflict with the evil
spirits, as may naturally be supposed, were
frightened nearly out of their wits, at the sight
of his highness, and they took a sudden un-

[Column 3]

ceremonious leave while the strong and valiant
held the ground, till the victory was gained,
and the evil one cast out. From this circum-
stance went forth a false rumor concerning the
meetings of the sisters, started by those who,
not having mingled before with them, pro-
nounced it all from the devil.
	At an evening meeting held at my mother's,
one of the sisters, who had met with us
but little, feeling the spirit resting upon her to
speak in tongues, arose and began talking—at
first very quietly. In a moment her voice
changed, as did also her countinance, and her
movements were such that there was no mis-
taking the spirit which was operating upon
her. Two or three who were present had the
gift of interpretation, and they said with one
accord that she uttered nothing but the most
wicked blasphemy. But this lasted only an
instant as sister Laura Pitkin, who came into
the church at the beginning, arose and took
hold of her arm, and in a quiet but command-
ing tone bade her sit down. She dropped into
her chair as suddenly as though she had re-
ceived a blow, and covering her face with her
hands groaned aloud, as though realizing what
she had done. No one spoke or moved, and in
a moment after she arose and left the room.
From that she felt so humiliated, and crushed
in spirit, that she could not be induced to again
rise to speak in a meeting.
	Many were the manifestations that were had
from above and beneath, which were similar to
what the Prophet had witnessed, but which
previous to that time, I had taken but little
notice of. Joseph said that the devil could
talk in any tongue and that he could appear
like a gentleman, or in any form he pleased.
Also that no one would ever enter into the
celestial kingdom without having to meet and
combat with that power, either in the flesh or
after they had passed out of it, and that his
forces would be strengthened and increased
just in proportion to the progress that was be-
ing made by his opponents. This is easily
enough understood by Latter-day Saints, or
by any one who has undertaken a reformation
or to accomplish a victory in the right direc-
tion.
	The slight experience that I gained at that
early period gave me a little insight, though
in a very small degree, into the workings of
the two powers. Afterwards when I was out
from under that spiritual or heavenly influence,
I made this expression, that I wanted no more
light or spiritual manifestations, for fear I
should have to meet the prince of darkness.
But I had to meet him, a year or so from that
date, and I went through a schooling that
brought conviction, and impressed indelibly
upon my heart the truth of this work, and that
Satan, with all his power and cunning, was a
deceiver; also that our thoughts were unknown
to him only as we uttered them, and therefore
we had the advantage over him, when wise
enough to keep silent, and we could pray to
the Father in our hearts, who was all power-
ful, and able to read the thoughts and desires
of His children.
	The experience had at Winter Quarters
taught me that it was only through obedience
and great humiliation, more especially through
fasting and prayer, that we could obtain any
great manifestations from on high, or the power
to enable us to overcome the adversary.
	Could we as a people, lay aside the world,
and bring our own evil natures into subjection
to that spirit, which would make us of one
heart and one mind, and valiant to do all that
is required of the Saints of God, I know that
we would not be long as we are now, bending
under the yoke of oppression, but would soon
become that people whom we have been told
from the beginning, should be honored, not
only by the noble, but by the Great Lawgiver
of the whole earth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake met according to adjourn-
ment, November 27th, 1885, Sister John pre-
siding. After singing and prayer, Sister John
made a few remarks, requesting the presidents
of the different branches of the Relief Society
throughout the county to give reports of each
society over whom they were called to preside.
After singing and prayer, conference adjourned
till 2 p.m.
	The afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
There were present Presidents A. O. Smoot, D.
John and H. H. Cluff, also Bishop Johnson.
After the opening exercises, some very instruc-
tive remarks were made by Counselor Marilla
Daniels and Anne K. Smoot. Prest. Smoot
then spoke to the sisters, giving a great deal
of good counsel and advice on many subjects
of interest to the Saints. Presidents D. John
and H. H. Cluff followed with remarks and
counsels calculated to benefit all, if lived up to.
Bishop Johnson spoke of the donations to the
Stake Tabernacle, and said we should esteem
it a privilege to help build up the kingdom of
God.
	Sister John hoped we should all be benefited
by what we had heard. She felt that the
Spirit of God was with us. After singing,
conference adjourned for three months. Bene-
diction by D. John.
	C. DANIELS, Secretary.

GRANTSVILLE.
	On Friday, Dec. 11th, in the face of a fierce,
driving storm, and bitter cold weather, Sisters
Presendia Kimball and Jane S. Richards left
Salt Lake City to attend conference in Grants-
ville.
	Saturday morning, under the direction of
Prest. M. A. Hunter, the conference opened.
Choice instructions were given by both the
sisters. In the afternoon the children's
Primary Conference was held. It was a most
interesting time, and a great deal of good ad-
vice and instruction was given by the sisters.
In the evening the Young Ladies held confer-
ence, advice being given as to how to live
temporally and spiritually in order to become
healthy, pure, noble women, as well as good
housekeepers. Instructions as to economy.
virtue and wisdom and the careful choice of a
companion were given, and Prest. Gowans, in
conclusion, fully endorsed all that had been
said, urging upon parents to live so that their
children can safely walk in their footsteps.
	Sunday afternoon Sister Kimball spoke up-
on the position we enjoy and the need of our
living up to our privileges, and remembering
our dead, giving much information, and plead-
ing with those who can to go and commence
the work for their dead, so that our children
can carry on the work. She gave valuable
suggestions to the young, how to progress in
all good, to be true to their trust, and be pre-
pared for everything that awaits us.
	Sister Richards showed the need of continual
dependence upon our Father, that He may di-
rect us aright; advised mothers to attend
Primary and understand what is being done
for our children. "Rather have the testimony
of Jesus in their hearts, than leave them a
fortune. We should be willing to endure
hard times, for we can feel ten times happier,
a thousand times better than if we did not
try."
	Prest. Gowans felt pleasure in listening to
the counsel we had heard, and advised all to
seek first the kingdom of heaven. "There is a
volume in this, for we are of the earth earthy.
If we attend to our duties in this kingdom first,
we shall find all things turn out right. The
work for our dead should be first in our hearts,

[Column 2]

and all the time remember that the responsi-
bility of our own salvation would rest with
ourselves."

P. A. SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of this Stake held
their Conference in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Hall, Saturday, December 12th, 1885,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Opened
with singing by the children, "Did you think
to pray?" Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
Children sang, "We want to see the Temple."
Minutes of the last conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Clawson made some remarks, and
stated that she decided at the last officers'
meeting not to have verbal reports, and make
the conference more instructive and interesting
to the children. Children sang, "Beautiful
Zion." Allie Cowan, 5th Ward, gave a recita-
tion. Prest. Louie Felt spoke a few minutes,
and asked the children some questions. Duet,
by two little girls from the 1st Ward.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze spoke a few minutes,
and exhorted the children to keep the "Word
of Wisdom," and to obey their parents. Child-
ren of the 17th Ward sang, "The Primary
Children."
	Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Prest. of P. A. of
Davis Stake, addressed the meeting; told the
children that Christmas was near, and that
when she was a little girl, she always tried to
do better and begin anew at such times; re-
lated a little story, showing that the best
children got the best presents. Her remarks
were very interesting. Florence Pardoe, 6th
Ward, sang, "Peep-a-boo"
	Mrs. Maria Y. Dougal expressed her pleasure
and told the children to remember that they
were the hope of Israel; gave some good in-
structions. The children sang, "Gather them
into the fold." A recitation from the Bible,
twelve verses, a boy from the 13th Ward.
Jennie McLeon, Prest. of 10th Ward Primary,
spoke upon children praying, and broke forth
in the gift of tongues. Mrs. Sinah Bishop
gave the interpretation. A little girl of the
8th Ward sang a song. Three girls from that
ward sang, and then another, entitled, "A
brighter day to-morrow." Recitation by a
little girl. Prest. Clawson expressed her
pleasure with the exercises rendered. A duet
by two small girls from the 10th Ward.
Dialogue, two boys of the 5th Ward. A song
by the little girls of the 17th Ward. Three
little girls of the 15th Ward sang, "My native
home."
	Meeting adjourned for three months, to be
held at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. Singing,
"Now let us rejoice," etc. Benediction by
Mrs. Rogers.

	Y. L. M. I. A. OF RIVERDALE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Riverdale
was held at the residence of Sister Martha
Bingham, on Thursday, Nov. 26th, at 2 p.m.,
a large number of the Association being pres-
ent. The meeting was conducted by Prest.
Maria Russell. Singing, "May we who know
the joyful sound;" opening prayer by Mary
A. Stimpson. After singing again, the minutes
of the previous conference were read and ap-
proved, and the statistical and financial re-
ports were read by the Secretary, Julia Child.
The following programme was then rendered:
The Young Ladies' "Instructor" was first
read, edited by Polly Child; a chapter from
the Bible by Nellie Child; a dialogue from six
members of the Association; a song, "Hard
times come again no more," was beautifully
rendered by Jessie McDonald, after which
Prest. Russell gave a lecture from the Bible,
of which the following is a synopsis: The
gifts and blessings of the Gospel, recorded in

[Column 3]

the 2nd chapter of the Acts of the Apostles,
are within the reach of all of us; if we will
stand firm and be determined to press on in
the principles which we know to be true, Satan
will not have power over us, for the Lord will
be our helper and will bless us accordingly. If
we strive to live our religion, when we or our
families are sick we can call upon the Lord
and He will hear us. The Lord wishes us to
become as one and to help the poor, and if we
are blessed with this world's goods, we should
be willing to part with some, that we may aid
those who are in need, and have not the many
comforts of life. Urged the sisters to come to
meetings with prayerful hearts, and strive to
have the spirit of the Lord with them at all
times.
	Coun. Nancy Bybee said, "As this is thanks-
giving Day we should all feel to thank the
Lord that our lives have been spared for
another year;" she had seen many prophecies
fulfilled within the last year, which made her
heart rejoice, for she knew that we were en-
gaged in a great and good work.
	Sister E. L. Thompson Felt a desire
to see all improve, and thought the young sis-
ters should prepare themselves for the many
trials they will be called to pass through.
Bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this
work.
	Sister M. Mitchell bore her testimony to the
work of the Lord; said, "Our enemies can do
a great deal, but they cannot destroy this work,
for the Lord will overrule all things for our
best good." Felt to encourage the young, and
urged them to press on in the good work in
which they were engaged.
	The Association sang the hymn, "Now we'll
sing with one accord," etc. Sisters McDonald
and Maggie Child bore testimony, and felt to
do all in their power to help to build up the
kingdom of God. "We must not waste our
time and sit idle, but study more upon "the
principles of the Gospel, that we may be pre-
pared for the second coming of the Lord. We
should cultivate a spirit of love and union to
a greater extent in our midst, as unless we
are firm and steadfast we will be led away
from this Church.
	Coun. Lucinda Bingham urged the sisters to
come to meeting as often as they possibly could
and try to do all in their power to help to
build up the kingdom of God.
	Prest. Russell made some closing remarks
upon prayer and the laying on of hands for
the healing of the sick.
	Singing, "Now, let us rejoice," etc. The
benediction was pronounced by Agnes Patter-
son.		ELIZA W. CHILD.
	Riverdale, Weber Co. Dec. 1st, 1885.


The habit of faltering and disguising
and concealing, and putting forward the edge
of a truth, instead of showing boldly the full
face of it, at last leads men into an insincerity
so habitual that they really do not know when
they speak the truth or not.—Cardinal Man-
ning.
	TALK—"The power to converse well is a
very great charm," says Ruskin. "You think
anybody can talk. How mistaken you are!
Anybody can chatter. Anybody can exchange
idle gossip. Anybody can recapitulate the
troubles of the kitchen, the cost of the last
new dress, and the probable doings of the
neighbors. But to talk wisely, instructively,
freshly, and delightfully, is an immense accom-
plishment. It implies exertion, observation,
study of books and people, and receptivity of
impression. Plato banished the musicians from
his feasts that the charms of conversation might
have no interference; but in our later fashions
many prefer music rather than the gossip of
the hour, which often degenerates into triviali-
ties, wearisome and commonplace.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


At the late election in New Bedford, Betsy
B. Winslow, a Vice-President of the Woman
Suffrage League, was re-elected a member of
the school board, on which she has already
served for several years. Elizabeth W. Stan-
ton, the President of the League, and Dr.
Helen W. Webster, another Vice-President,
are also elected. So New Bedford has now
three women on the school committee.
	The Buffalo Courier has seen Mrs. Louise
Bethune referred to in the Woman's Jonrnal
as "a practicing architect of Chicago," and
says: "It is hard that Chicago should have
the credit of the woman architect of whom
Buffalo has such reason to feel proud." The
item about Mrs. Bethune was clipped from an
Indianapolis paper. We are glad to give Buf-
falo all the credit that belongs to her, and
glad also that the time has come when a woman
architect is considered an honor, instead of an
anomaly and a disgrace.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Clean Discolored Marble.—Take two parts of sodium
carbonate, one of pumice-stone, and one of finely-
powdered chalk; mix into a fine paste with water. Rub
this on the marble, and the stains will be removed; then
wash with soap and water.
	A pair of boots or shoes thoroughly soaked are not easy
to dry without being left in an uncomfortably stiff, if not
shrunken condition. A very simple device will make the
drying process comparatively safe. The wet shoes should
be thoroughly stuffed with paper, which serves not only to
keep them in shape, but hastens their drying by absorbing
the moisture.
	To Make Yeast Cakes.—Boil together half a dozen
potatoes and a handful of hops tied in a cloth. When the
potatoes are done remove from the fire, mash them fine,
put them in the hot liquor, set over the fire, and thicken
them with three or four tablespoonfuls of flour. Let them
cool till lukewarm. then add a cupful of good yeast and
set in a warm place. When light stir in corn meal till a
thick dough is formed. Place this in a lump on the paste
board and slice off cakes with a knife, dry in the shade,
turning often while drying. Pack away in a close vessel
where the air will not reach them.
	To Cleanse Woodwork.—Save the tea leaves for a few
days, then steep them in a tin pail or pan for half an hour,
strain through a sieve and use the tea to wash all varnished
paint. It requires very little "elbow polish," as the tea
acts as a strong detergent, cleansing the paint from all im-
purities, and making the varnish equal to new. It cleans
window sashes and oil cloths; indeed, any varnished sur-
face is improved by its application. It washes window
panes and mirrors much better than water, and is excellent
for cleaning black walnut picture and looking-glass frames.
It will not do to wash unvarnished paint with it. Whiting
is unequalled for cleaning white paint. Take a small
quantity on a damp flannel, rub lightly over the surface,
and you will be surprised at its effects.
	Boiling Potatoes.—To boil a potato well requires more
attention than is usually given. They should be well
washed and left standing in cold water an hour or two, to
remove the black liquor with which they are impregnated,
and a brackish taste they would otherwise have. They
should not be pared before boiling; they lose much of the
starch by so doing, and are made insipid. Put them into a
kettle of clear cold water, with a little salt, cover closely,
and boil rapidly, using no more water than will just cover
them, as they produce a considerable quantity of fluid
themselves while boiling, and too much water will make
them heavy. As soon as just done instantly pour off the
water, set them back on the range, and leave the cover off
the saucepan till the steam has evaporated. They will
then, if a good kind, be dry and mealy. This is an Irish
receipt, and a good one.


OBITUARY.

	In memory of Hyrum Frederick adopted son of Geo. M.
and Margaret A. White, who died December 15th, 1885,
at Mill Creek, aged nineteen months and twenty days.


He was a sweet and interesting child, and while we feel to
mourn his loss, we acknowledge the hand of our Father
and hope to live faithful, that we may again meet our
darling. 							MARY.

	In memory of Bathsheba, youngest daughter of J. F.
and Elizabeth Snedaker, who passed away on the morning
of the 29th of November, 1885, aged eight years and one
month. She was a lovable girl, always interested when
talking of the things of her Heavenly Father, and lived
long enough to receive the blessings of baptism, and all
other blessings it was her right to receive. She was a
faithful member of the Primary, and was ever willing to
respond when called to do anything. For the fair she
worked a beautiful pincushion. Her little associates miss
and grieve her loss. This is the fifth child which has been
taken from their family since June with the same dreadful
disease, diptheria.
							BELLE WHITE.

	In memory of our dear friend and sister, Emmeline,
daughter of William and Rebecca Faulkner, who died at
Central, Arizona, August 22nd, 1885. She was born
March 2nd, 1872, and she died as she had lived, a true
Latter-day Saint. Her nature was such as made her highly
respected by all who knew her, and we may say in the
best sense of the word, that Sister Emmeline was a superior
young lady, possessing that innate refinement which gives
sublimity to women of character. Added to this were the
traits of gentleness and genuine kindness, which won for
her a great circle of friends. The Y. L. M. I. A., to
which she belonged, passed appropriate resolutions of re-
spect and condolence.					[COM.

	In memory of Ann Granger, wife of Ja[-]ez Woodward,
who died at Kanosh, Willard County, at a quarter to six
a.m., December 3rd, 1885. She was the daughter of
James and Ann Granger, and was born at Sydenham, Kent,
England, 1818. She suffered from a lingering illness of
dropsy and inflammation of the lungs for four months.
She has been a member of the Church thirty-five years.
After a long and tedious journey, suffering many priva-
tions and losing a little daughter with the cholera at Kansas
camping ground, they reached Salt Lake City in October,
from which place they went to Ogden. During their stay
there, herself and husband walked back to the city to re-
ceive their blessings in the house of the Lord. In the year
of the grasshopper famine they settled at West Jordan
while there her husband filled a four years mission to
Switzerland, pulling a handcart, on his return, across the
Plains. Shortly after his return the family were called to
go to Dixie to assist in opening up a new country. The
family resided there many years. While there, Bro.
Woodward went north to work on the railroad. He was
about to return home when he was taken suddenly ill, and
died at Morgan City. She then went to the Muddy, and
remained until the mission was broken up, then with her
two sons she moved to Kanosh, in which place she has re-
sided since until her death. In the year 1878 she was
chosen First Counselor in the Relief Society. She was a
true Latter-day Saint, esteemed and beloved by all. She
often spoke of a dream or vision she had over twenty years
ago, in which she saw the brethren and sisters tried, con-
victed and brought face to face with death for obeying and
practicing plural marriage. We feel to sympathize with
the family in their present bereavement, but trust they will
walk in the footsteps of their mother, and be prepared to
meet her when death calls them hence.
					ADENIA A. KIMBALL, Prest.
					A. RAPPLEYE, Sec.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVID JAMES, Box 806, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
	"Domestic!"
The Seweing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[text surrounding picture of sewing machine that says 
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
	other Sewing Machine. It has been 
	in the Market for 23 Years]

	Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF

Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HEARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES A ND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL's
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1886.	NO. 16.


A TRIBUTE OF MEMORY.

WRITTEN TO THE MEMBERS OF THE CHOIR OF THE
	FIFTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY.

Do you think I've forgotten, oh friends of long years,
Of my brightest and happiest days,—
That your faces are dimmed by the shadows and tears,
Of the joys of a wanderer's ways?
Forget the warm hand clasp of friendship so true,
The smile and kind greeting of all?
No! the ties of affection that strengthened and grew
Must last till the Master's call.
Forget "Oh, my Father," as sung by our choir,
Or "Maggie" and "Sarah," "Janet" and "Ure?"
These were written for us tuned on "Tom's Golden Lyre,"
And with "Ashton" and "Morgan" for aye will endure.
In spring's balmy hours and summer's fierce heat,
And when autumn leaves covered the ground,
And in cold, wintry blasts still gladly we met,
To the call of the organ's sweet sound.
And, "Henry," oh, cherish and prize well your gift
Of music, 'tis sent from above,
From earth's care and rust your soul it will lift
Unto regions of glory and love.
The "Lights by the Shore," oh, I see them again,
And "Sabbath Bells" joyfully ring.—
Be still, oh, my heart, cease, cease this wild pain,
For with God and His ransomed our Nellie doth sing
On the "Bright Golden Shore;" oh, forgive these last tears,
For you sang her farewell while so silent she lay,
With her crown of sweet flowers, she who gladened the
	years,
And I thank thee, I thank thee for singing that day;
In my heart's sacred chambers, oft memory will turn
To that Sleeper, the singer, the song's gentle strain,
Though crushed are the flowers and broken the urn,
Their sweet fragrance eternal must ever remain.
Forget not the absent who mingled with you
In the joys and the sorrows gone bye;
Sweet memories flowers my pathway will strew,
Immortelles, for they never can die.
In the "sweet bye and bye" may we all meet again,
And renew the fond ties of the past,
And sing to His praise in one glad refrain,
And in joy that forever will last.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]

CRAWFORD'S GLEN.

	About eight miles (Irish miles, which are
almost longer than the English) from Bel-
fast, is the little village of Crawfordsburn. It
consists of a few houses of primitive architec-
tural style, built together along the road for
a distance of forty or fifty rods on one side
and the same length on the other, only the
homes of the goodfolk on the latter side are
more detached. Whatever changes occur in
the appearance of the village, which is named
from its proximity to one of the Crawford
estates, are so gradual as to provoke few ex-
clamations of surprise, though their rarity sub-
ject them to more than general scrutiny. I
should have said the village seems to take its
name from the Crawford's estate hard by; but
for some unaccountable reason, or rather, for
no reason whatever, the word "burn," which
follows the name Crawford, instead of convey-
ing the idea that it is Crawford's village, means
literally Crawford's stream or brook. A "burn"
is a small stream; and as one flows through the
estate it has been given the name of the family.
The presumption is that the few cottages
which now claim a postoffice, growing up in
the vicinity of the "burn," have gradually ap-
propriated, or been accorded, the name of the
sweet little brook that winds its way through


[Column 2]

the Crawford estate until its complaining
waters mingle with those of the ocean about a
mile distant. The village has a wide reputa-
tion for two reasons: It is on the estate of the
Earl of Dufferin, now Viceroy of India, and
it has taken the name of Sherman Crawford,
a man whose broad and liberal, yet conserva-
tive views regarding the policy that should be
pursued toward his native land, were far riper
than the times in which he lived. If his shade
is alive to the events now transpiring in the
"Green Isle of the Ocean," he may enjoy the
consciousness of knowing how largely instru-
mental he has been in contributing to whatever
of recent liberality the English government
has accorded his countrymen. He is really
the father of "The Tenants' Rights Act," whose
beneficial effects were not known until some
years after his body had been laid beneath the
green sod. The village has a local reputation
for three reasons: It is near the shore of the
Belfast Lough, reputed to rival the beauty of
Lake Geneva, and is the center of some of the
most charming country in the north of Ireland;
it has one of the neatest, cleanest and cosiest
little inns in the three kingdoms; and lastly, it
nestles on the verge of a glen whose beauty,
once seen, is never to be forgotten. It is this
glen—the Glen of Crawfordsburn—that gives
to the village such fame as it may enjoy, this
that attracts the tourist, and, during summer,
makes it the scene of visitation by hundreds
in search of natural beauty or a day's peace-
able recreation.
	Though I have seen it times without number,
I well remember the first walk I took through
its winding length since the mystery of time
effaced the more acute recollections which child-
hood gives to all. A lingering sense of some-
thing once known, not unlike the sensation one
has when his feelings rather than his mind
seem to recall a dream so fully forgotten that
even the dim outlines no longer remain—an
indefinite, undefinable consciousness of forgot-
ten pleasures—floated through the mind, but
left little, if anything, to which one could pin
even the thread of a recollection. As morning
dawned the murmur of waters falling close by,
was the first of many indistinct sensations that
confusedly passed through my half-waking
dreams. I saw myself long years ago stand-
ing beside a waterfall heaped about with an
abundance of richest green and the sounds
that pleasantly disturbed [--] [---]t seemed to
possess a strange, a fascinating naturalness. I
could also see the half-threatening yet kindly
glance of one whose injunctions I had dis-
obeyed by wandering from a given spot; still,
all was vague and uncertain. When half-way
down the Glen a strong tide of recollection
sweeps o'er the heart. The ocean breeze
freighted with the odor of sea-weed and sub-
dued by the mild breath of a tardy spring,
wafted the wind over the gulf of intervening
years, and in a moment all became strangely
familiar. I had inhaled every breeze from
Yew York to England, drank in the gales
along the coast of Scotland, and scented every
zephyr from the land of thistles and heather to
that of the Shamrock and St. Patrick, for that
peculiar odor of land and wave which lingered
in my mind like the perfume of a delicious
flower recalled strongly after long years, and
had never found it until now.
	It was a spring day, but so early, or rather,
spring was so late, that no tree had yet begun
to put forth its leaves. A yellowish cast in the


[Column 3]

brown of the grass foretold a rising green, the
long, oval leaf of the laurel, which yields its
place only when forced to make room for the
new ones that annually succeed it, already
strewed the ground. From under the thick
covering of fast decaying foliage the green
stems of a wild flower were beginning timidly
to appear; but of the prevailing green which
tells that spring is truly present, there was
barely a trace.  Still, it was beautiful. The
monotony of death was relieved by the green
of the ivy which, from the ground far up,
closely encircled the trunks of noble trees,
whose denuded branches stood out skeleton-like,
clearly dark against the blue sky. There was
an abundance of moss. There always is, but
it is never so beautiful as in winter. I have
watched the tender leaf come to full growth,
seen the fair flowers of spring yield to the
deeper and richer bloom of summer, these, in
turn, succeeded by the brown tints and fewer
blossoms of autumn, and then all covered with
the snows of winter, and never gazed upon it
when it was not a scene of surpassing loveli-
ness.
	Above the village road, about a stone's
throw, is a dam, which feeds an old flour mill
that has lately been converted into one for
sawing up trees which have ceased to be useful
for purposes ornamental and to give place to
those of younger growth. Ten second's walk
takes one into the Glen, having passed through
an old gateway, on the right hand side of
which is a solid stone wall. Through this wall
a branch of escalonia, or wild fuchsia, as thick
as a man's wrist, has forced its way, from
which early in June, and on even into Novem-
ber, a profusion of coral pendants with pur-
ple centres, hung within easy reach. I have
seen the thin arms of the wild rose, whose
flowers were of spotless white, run through
and through the escalonia branches and min-
gle its white bloom with the red and purple of
its rival of the wall, until it stole so much of
that rival's coral hue as cast a blush of inef-
able tenderness over its own petals. The mill,
while not ruined, is, nevertheless, partially
moss grow and ivy hidden. As soon as it has
been passed is one fairly in the Glen. Three
waterfalls are near it. A small one almost at
its edge, a larger one some thirty feet farther
down, and one, in size between these two, still
lower. Between the second and third falls, a
[-]astic bridge spans the stream, which is reached
by a steep bridle path. Directly below the
last fall is a fair plat of green (in the midst of
which stands a tall and graceful tree) formed
by the burn which sweeps to the right in a
pleasing curve. At the point where the stream
again turns to the left is a rustic seat, o'erhung
with laurel and beech, from which the three falls,
the rustic bridge, the dense undergrowth of
laurel, hazle, boxwood and beech, the fringing
of grass, the bloom of the milk white and pink
thorne and the nobler trees, present a picture
to the eye such as is never to be forgotten.
The little stream, dashed into foam, pours
headlong over each successive fall, half-cover-
ing the jutting rocks, (now deeply bedded with
waves) which interrupt its flow, and then glides
away as though ashamed, of the tumult it had
created. Many an artist have I seen endeav-
oring to pen down its changing beauties and
reproduce them on the faulty canvas. For
the greater part of the Glen two paths lead
down one on the right hand side of the stream,
and one on the left. When summer comes,with


[Column 1]
﻿its wealth of foliage, its shade is fascinating;
and as the branches of the varied trees sway
to the wind, delightful glimpses of grass fields
o’er which the sun pours its generous radiance,
fill the expectant with inexpressible pleasure.
The stream winds quietly about after it leaves
the falls. A little over half way down, a
superb railroad viaduct, which spans the Glen,
seems, with its fine arches through which one
passes, to add to its romantic charm, if any
evidence of civilization can do so; and from
this point the Glen widens out, and there are
fine prospects of wooded hills on one side, and
of grass plot softer than any carpet on the
other. The hills to the left, the top of which
could not be seen before because of the density
of the foliage, are low and rolling and de-
crease as one follows the stream. A broad
gravel road begins at the confluence of the
Glen “burn” with another stream a short dis-
tance below the viaduct. Still following the
stream a quarter of a mile down the Glen,
paths which by this time had converged into
one, and the graveled road also meet, and
winding around a low knoll, the ocean bursts
into full view. And it is a magnificent sight
—from the secluded, half-brine sensation which
the Glen gives to the broad and prodigal sweep
of the ocean, upon whose bosom the eye be-
holds trading vessels of all burdens, and in
summer, the tiny white sails of innumerable
yachts. To the right, on a clear day, the low
hills of Scotland are visible, and rising an
adjacent knoll, the summit of many a noble
hill, crowned with a profusion of trees meets
the gladdened eye. Across the Lough, or 
bay, to the left, one gazes upon well filled
fields, (divided by countles hedges) and white
cots and smoke from flying trains, while Car-
rick-fergus, of historical notoriety as having
been the scene of coronation of a Scotchman
as King of Ireland in the 13th century, is also
easily distinguishable. To dwell upon the
endless variety of magnificent scenes which
this wide prospect affords, in the hope of pic-
turing them, were vain; or even to tell of the
never ending colors of the wave (variable and
uncertain as its bosom) as it changes hue with
every breath of wind that ruffles its surface.
But it produces an exultant sense that only
one can know who has felt the conscious gran-
deur which boundless vision inspires—such as a
prospect spread out before him who has stood
upon the summit of some lofty peak in the
Rocky Mountains, or upon a rival chain, and
viewed the boundless range of valley and
mountain, that rolled away from lris feet in
never ending succession, till the eye was
wearied with its limitless flight. I do not
recollect that it ever presented the same ap-
pearance twice. The clear or beclouded heaven,
the varying tide, the presence of numerous or
the total absence of boats or vessels, the pe-
culiarities of light and shadow upon distant
hills, showing on one, in the broad sunlight,
every house and hedg across the Lough, while
the rest were practically indistinguishable; the
striking changes in color which presented them-
selves to view, nay even the indefinite number
of huts of green which lay in fields upon the
broad bosom of the ocean, seemed capable of
interminable variation, though, of course, the
spot and its surroundings were ever the same
features.
	All through the Glen are great numbers of
flowering shrubs. Red, white and pink rho-
dodendrons are among the first, following
which are the king yellow flower of the box
with a perfume so like that of its tender leaves.
The haw or thorne, and the laurel, and the
sloe, their seasons make the air redolent with
delightful odors; while the “meadow sweet”
freights the air with a perfume as subtle as it is
delicate. Amid the green boughs, twittering
birds keep up a ceaseless chatter, interrupted
occasionally by the deep cawing of the

[Column 2]
crow, which echoes through the stillness.
Rustic seats are placed at all points from
which a fine view is to be had; while
the wealth of mosses on the decaying
branches and roots of living trees. The
aspiring ivy hiding in its density, the trunks
of trees as far up as the eye can follow, the
rank growth of ferns, the intermingling of
innumerable wild flowers, beginning in the
spring with the modest primrose and the un-
yielding daisy followed through the season by
the dandelion, Mayflowers, buttercup, peri-
winkle, London pride, and so on, force them-
selves upon attention. One of the choicest
bits is a ruined house in the Glen. It is very
dark and literally buried with moss and ivy.
It is called the “fog” house because of the
depth of moss which hides it, and “fog” is
a name given here to a particular kind of
moss. One is surprised by the great number 
of secluded nooks which everywhere seem to
invite the lover—and lovers are as often sur-
prised by the sudden and unfortunate appear-
ance of others who, like themselves, are in
search of some sequestered spot "for whisper-
ing lovers made.” Many are the dark pools
fringed with long grass and longer ferns and
ivy where the angler looks in vain for trout.
The fallen tree that spans the “burn,” the half
hidden way that leads beneath the overhanging
holly and through tangled laurel and sally and
thorne, to spots of exquisite loveliness, the
miniature precipices, the subdued song of the
ocean mingled with the sobbing of the wind
through umbrageous trees, and the stillness that
one can almost feel, are known to all who love
nature and who have sought her where she
broods in solitary loveliness. Here mid these

	"Green winding walks and shady pathways sweet,"

which my infant steps and maturer feet have
trod, could I dwell forever. Whenever sun-
light shall flood upon wave, or wood-crowned
hill; whenever the songs of birds shall echo
through all-prevailing stillness; when there is
shade and green grass, and moss covered rocks;
when the fragrance of flowers shall float upon
the breeze; when the sound of falling water
begets that sense of ease that sinks deep into
the heart; when the unmurmuring stream runs
darkling awry beneath grass and fern and
overhanging tree; whenever moonlight, flood-
ing the night air, throws its weird and roman-
tic shadows across the deserted walk, or glints
through the dense foliage; when the joyous
songs of happy hearts fill the eventide with
love and rapture, or the silent whisperings of
fond lips breathes tales of love.

"Beneath the milk-white thorne that scents the evening
	gale,"

at such an hour this Glen, and its hallowed
charms, will fill the mind with such bright
scenes as time cannot dim; and bring a sense
of joy and of rest where darkest clouds o’er-
cast life's sky. At such an hour too, will well
up from the heart that old, homely, tender
verse:
	“Could I but feel as with thee I felt,
		Long, long ago; long, long ago;
	Where at thy side in the moonlight I knelt.
		Long, long ago; sweet long ago;
	“Could I meet thee at eve by the stream in the Glen,
		And drink of thine eyes loving sunshine again,
	I might tell thee such tales as I told to thee then,
		Long, long ago; long long ago."
						WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		VIRGIN CITY, Jan. 9th, 1886.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking it no more than our duty to let
our co-laborers in the Primaries know that we
are still alive, and up to our duties as far as
possible, we send you a brief account of an


entertainment which was given by our Associa-
tion on Christmas day, and which proved to
be quite a success both financially and other-
wise, and for which our little folks are deserv-
ing of great credit. The children, parents,
and all who felt like attending, met at the
meeting house at two o'clock, and after the
usual opening exercises of singing and prayer,
we listened to quite a variety of exercises from
the Association, consisting of songs, dialogues,
recitations, select readings, etc.; all of which
were rendered in a manner which did credit to
our little folks, and showed that they had been
very energetic in preparing themselves with
the parts assigned them. A very pretty song,
entitled, "Santa Claus is coming this way,"
was very nicely sung by our Association choir,
at the close of which the good old gentleman
favored us with a call, and rolled up the cur-
tain from our Christmas tree, which was well
loaded with presents for the little folks; not
one that was a member of the Association had
been forgotten; he also treated them liberally
to candy. The Bishop's Counselors, Elders
Beebe and Burke, were present, and spoke a
short time; expressed themselves as well pleased
with the entertainment; spoke encouragingly
to the children, and prayed God's blessing up-
on the Association. Our meeting closed at
five o'clock, and all seemed to feel well paid
for coming to it. Our Association has donated
two dollars in cash in the last few months for
the Sanpete Temple.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the Prim-
aries, and for all who are working for the up-
building of God's kingdom, we remain,
		Sincerely your sisters,
		MINERVA PRATT, Prest.
		ELEANOR OWENS, First Coun.

	THE MARRIAGE OF GREAT MEN.

	Byron married Miss Millbank to get money
to pay his debts. It turned out a bad shift.
	Robert Burns married a farm girl, with
whom he fell in love while they worked to-
gether in a plowed field. He was irregular in
his life, and committed the most serious mis-
takes in conducting his domestic affairs.
	Milton married the daughter of a country
squire, and lived with her but a short time.
He was an austere literary recluse, while she
was a rosy, romping country lass, that could
not endure the restraint imposed upon her; so
they separated. Subsequently, however, she
returned, and they lived tolerably happy.
	Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were
cousins, and about the only example in the
long line of English monarchs wherein the
marital vows were sacredly observed and sin-
cere affection existed.
	Shakespeare loved and wedded a farmer's
daughter. She was faithful to her vows, but
we could hardly say the same of the bard him-
self. Like most of the great poets, he showed
too little discrimination in bestowing his affec-
tion on the other sex.
	Washington married a woman with two
children. It is enough to say she was worthy
of him, and they lived together as married
people should live—in perfect harmony with
each other.


﻿Mrs. L. M. Wilson, superintendent of
public schools at Des Moines, Iowa, has under
her charge eight buildings, eighty teachers,
and about 4,000 pupils. Her salary is $1,800
a year.
	Ladies are beginning to use scented wax for
sealing their letters. There is now imported
from Paris a costly kind of wax for this pur-
pose, the perfume of which when burning will
fill a room and linger for hours about the en-
velope.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WRITTEN WHEN I HAD BEEN IN THE
		CHURCH ONE YEAR.

	FRIENDSHIP, LOVE AND TRUTH.

Three stars are shining on me from the WEST;
Three gifts of God, the brightest and the best;
Three strong impulses that have turned me round;
Three beacons placed upon a flowery mound;
Three guardian angels, pointing out the way;
Three voices urging me to "watch and pray;"
Three "silver trumpets," God's own heralds sound;
Three "muster rolls" that summon ALL around;
Three whispers echoed from the voice of God!
Three scourges ready, should I need the rod;
Three pearls dissolved in life's oft bitter cup;
Three sweets that urge me on to drink it up;
Three index hands, that point me to the goal;
Three magnets that attract and fix my soul;
Three paths, that lead direct to Zion's hill;
Three alchymists that gold, for me, distil;
Three messengers of peace, that calm my fears,
And fondly urge me thro' this vale of tears.
					HANNAH T. KING.
Dernford Dale, England.


WEAVERS WE.

Weavers we at the loom of Time,
	Swift are our shuttles flying;
Warp and woof we're weaving fast,
	Ever our life-task plying;
In sunshine in shade, in pleasure and gloom,
Weave we Life's tissue on Time's busy loom.

Threads of gold through the bright new woof
	Gleam when the work is begun;
The gold pales off in dull grey hues
	And fades ere the work is done;
While some strands are snarled, and the tangled stain
Is soiled in the weaving with salt tears' stain.

Weave we the warp as weave we may,
	Vain our toil, vain all our skill;
Bewildered by Fate, the web shall be
	Not the fashion of our will—
For a double thread e'er runs through the wift,
In the fairest stitch some false loop is left.

Alas! who gayest wore at dawn,
	As slow the dull lengths unreel,
Most weary at the evening's close
	Toils on at the restless wheel,
Till he snaps his thread, and his shuttle drops,
When the loom with its unshaped fabric stops.

Then one picks up the broken ends;
	Tangled by Error and Doubt,
Forms the web the weaver wove,
	As He smooths the roughness out,
Whatever the worker fashioned below,
His robe of light or his garment of woe.—Selected.


[Column 1]
			NAAMAN. 

	The tableaux of the Bible are all brief, but
they are sublime and beautiful, and always
edifying. They leave on the mind that reads
them, meditatively and understandingly, a 
lingering pathos, a desire to imitate the
characters that compose them, and a love and
reverence for the same. 
	That of Naaman has ever impressed me
as one from which much instruction may be
derived; it seems that no one can read his
dreadful affliction, his marvelous blessings, and
restoration to perfect health, even "as a little
child," and all through the instrumentality of
a little captive maid, without lingering over it,
again and again, with a feeling of deep re-
flection and of love and beauty pervading the
mind. Naaman, we are told in the sacred
history, was greatly in favor with the King of
Syria, being captain of the host, and was
honorable, because by him the Lord had given
deliverance into Syria; he was also a mighty
man in valor; but—he was a leper!
	Now, the Syrians had gone out in companie,
and, had brought away captive a little maids

[Column 2]
and she waited on Naaman's wife. Now here
is left a wide space for the imagination of
the reader—how much is contained in these
few words; all prelude is entirely omitted, but
the sequel assures us that this lady was a noble
woman, and had taken the little maid under
her care and had excited in her mind a love
for her employers, and that her young heart
had thought over and commiserated the afflic-
tion of her master. Though young and a 
captive, brought from her home and friends, 
the kindness of her mistress had excited her
warm sympathy, as no doubt she saw daily
how sad the affliction of her husband made
her. It would appear that some allusion had
been made to this great affliction, for the
words seem to rush from her heart to her lips,
and she breaks out, "Would God, my lord
were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for
He would recover him of his leprosy." What
a simple assertion! and yet what decided faith
is in every word of it; what reverence and de-
votion to her employers; how rare, but yet how
beautiful.
	The narrative goes on to say, "These words
were told to Naaman"—most probably by his 
wife—and the great officer of state must have
had a noble, unprejudiced mind, to listen to an
asssrtion from the little captive maid! but
affliction is generally accompanied by humility,
and a promise of relief in such severe suffering,
even from so humble a source, was attractive,
for she had spoken positively, and her words
were thrilling; she had preached one of the
principles of the Gospel, and we know the
power of God goes with them. Probably he
had been impressed with the serious, devout
mind of the child, which would naturally give
weight to her words, and he pondered upon
them. It appears that the words of the child
had been told to the King of Syria, and di-
rectly he determined to send a letter to the
King of Israel with a handsome present, and
said in the letter he had written, "I herewith
send Naaman my servant unto thee, that thou
mayst recover him of his leprosy!" But when
the King had read the letter, he rent his
clothes and said, "Am I God, that this man 
doth send unto me to recover a man of his
leprosy? See how he seeketh a quarrel against
me."
	Elisha heard that the King of Israel was
much excited over the letter, and he went to
him and said, "Wherefore has thou rent thy
clothes? Let him come now to me, and he
shall know that there is a prophet in Israel."
	So Naaman went with his horses and char-
iots, and waited at the door of the house of
Elisha; and Elisha sent a messenger to him,
saying, "Go wash in Jordan seven times, and 
thy flesh shall cleave unto thee, and thou shalt
be clean."
	But Naaman turned away in anger; his
pride was wounded; he thought that Elisha
himself would surely have come out to him, 
one of the most favored officers of the King,
that he would have drawn "his hand over the
place, and so recovered" him; he also thought
that the Jordan was too insignificant a stream
in which for him to wash; why, said he, not 
wash in one of the noble rivers of Damascus?
So "he turned away in a rage."
	Now again we see a display of the lurking
humility of Naaman's character, for the
historian goes on to say, "His servants came
near and spake unto him and said, 'My Father
if the Prophet had told thee to do some great
thing, wouldst thou not have done it? How
much rather, then, when he saith to thee, wash
and be clean.' Then he went and dipped
seven times in Jordan, according to the saying
of the man of God, and his flesh came again
like the flesh of a little child's, and he was
clean."
	Then he returned to Elisha and said, "Now
I know that there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel," and he desired to make him a

[Column 3]
handsome present, but Elisha said, "As the
Lord liveth, before whom I stand, I will take 
nothing." Then Naaman declares that hence-
forth he will offer neither burnt offering nor
sacrifice to any God but unto the Lord; but he
entreated Elisha to pardon him when he 
should have to attend to the King when he went
to "worship in the House of Rimmon, and
would have to bow himself down with the
King; the Lord pardon thy servant in this
thing." And Elisha said to him, "Go in
peace." So he returned healed and blessed to
his own house. We read no more of Naaman,
nor of the little maid who was the instrument
in the hand of God of bringing about that
glorious result; her name is not even given; her
sex and occupation is all that she is designated
by; but the meditative mind will draw her
picture as a pure, affectionate and appreciative
child of God, and it is sweet and beautiful in
its brief simplicity, and is a subject for con-
templation, especially for the young of every
age, as an example to them to follow and imi-
tate. The Scripture says "she was of the
land of Israel." Hence, of course, she was of
Hebrew blood, and this will account for her
great knowledge of the prophet of God. Her
education had evidently been carefully at-
tended to, and her young character evinced
faith, reverence, affection, gratitude, with
dignity and seriousness of mature age. I re-
quest my young friends to read this history of
Naaman and the "little maid"—they will find
it both interesting and instructive. It will be
found in ii Kings, chapter v. In the same
chapter they will read of Gehazi, the servant
of Elisha, who, hearing his master refuse the
rich present offered him by Naaman, deter-
mines to bespeak it for himself, and having
procured it, returns and stands before his
master, who is severely angry with him, and
says to him, "The leprosy of Naaman shall
cleave unto thee forever, and he went out from
his presence a leper as white as snow."
				HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Women jump at conclusions and generally
hit; men reason things out logically and general-
ly miss it.
	A woman always carries her purse in her
hand so that other women will see it; a man
carries his in his inside pocket so that his wife
wont see it.
	If instead of a gem, or even a flower, we
could cast the gift of a lovely thought into the
heart of a friend, that would be giving as the
angels give.—Geo. MacDonald.
	An old proverb says: If a person dies without
the services of a doctor, then a coronor must
be called in and a jury empanelled to inquire
and determine upon the cause of death; but if
a doctor attended the case; then no coroner
and jury are needed, as everybody knows why
the person died.—Medical Herald.
	A well known dealer in pictures, a candidate
in the Radical interest for one of the divi-
sions of Lancashire, was lately making a
speech, and in the course of it drew the usual
Radical caricature sketch of the relative
achievements of the Liberal and the Tory party.
After proving to his own satisfaction that
everything was good, from the solar system
and the precession of the equinoxes down to
cheap calico and school-boards, had been in-
vented by the Liberals, and that all the evils
of the universe arose from the incursions into
power of the Tories, he wound up by saying,
"Look on this picture and on that!" At this
a man in the hall, who had listened imp atient-
ly to the catalogue of good and evil, cried out,
"None of your blooming shop! Talk politics."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly; in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,			JANUARY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

A GLIMPSE OF NEW YORK CITY.

	Arriving late on Sunday night, or early Mon-
day morning was rather an awkward entre into a
greatcity, and most provoking, too, when one
was desirous of seeing to the best advantage this
place of great renown.
	Morning dawned, however, and as soon as pos-
sible we were out upon Broadway, and gazing up
and down at the crowds of people hurrying to and
fro, hither and thither, without cessation, as
though some great event had just transpired to
bring a crowd together. This was holiday week,
and a good time to see New York in holiday attire;
everywhere brilliant and gorgeous colors were
displayed, and fancy goods of all descriptions in
the greatest abundance, and, in fact, everything
useful, substantial, ornamental and decorative.
We learned afterwards that it was very confusing
even to those accustomed to shopping in this great
city. The display made at Tiffany's was dazzling,
and one could not help being a little dazed with
the elaborate showing, as also at the enormous
prices. After rambling around awhile alone, and
n and out of two or three bookstores, and look-
ing over a directory, we took a car and went in
the direction of Governor's Island. Arriving at
the landing, we crossed over in the boat which
plied regularly for the accomodation of the service,
and on reaching the port, made inquiry of a
guard, or a soldier on duty, for Lieut. R. W.
Young's residence. We found the handsome and
fascinating young Lieut. tending the new baby
and his charming wife and himself both very glad
to see someone from home. We had a long chat
over affairs in Salt Lake, lunching meantime, and
then the Lieut. offered to escort Aunt Em around
New York the remainder of the day. We went
first to Battery Place, then took a good look at
Castle Gardens, and from thence to the elevated
railway, and rode along some of the principal
streets, the Lieut. pointing out, as we passed
them, many places of special interest. After this
we went to the Produce Exchange Building, as
from its top the Lieut. thought we could see as
much of New York as could be taken in at one
view. The ground floor is occupied mainly for
offices—a branch of the New York Post Office in
one part. Taking the elevator, we reached a
gallery where we could look down into the Ex-
change business hall, and see the crowd of men
below, who were, apparently, very much excited
over the transactions, in which they were, no
doubt, from their manner, intensely interested
financially. It was all quite unintelligible to one
not initiated into the method of proceedings.
They were grain merchants transacting daily
business, etc. To a stranger it was a sort of
noisy Babel. Leaving this part of the building,
we ascended in the elevator to the very top of the
campanile, a distance of two hundred feet, and
walked out upon the roof, where we had a good
view in all directions of the city and its surround-
ings, and the shipping as well. One of the
novelties of this scene was the trains of cars be-

[Column 2]

ing ferried over in boats. The Produce Ex-
change is a splendid new building on Bowling
Green; it covers a whole square, and is very
grand and imposing in its appearance. It is con-
structed after the manner of the Italian Renais
sance, considerably modified, however. The ma-
terial used in the structure is brick and terra
cotta, with granite porches and base; the average
height of facade is one hundred and twenty-five
feet. The main Exchange Hall on the second
floor, where the Produce Exchange members
make their rendezvous, is sixty feet in height.
This organization is said to be "the largest in the
world. Its membership is limited to 3,000, which
is now full." The upper stories are divided into
three hundred offices. The Produce Exchange
is considered one of the finest architectural fea-
tures in New York.
	St. Patrick's Cathedral is the church of churches
in architectural beauty and magnificence. When
we entered the music made a great impression, it
seemed so heavenly, and after a few moments
we understood why; it was children's voices, and
they were practicing in the organ gallery for the
Christmas exercises. The structure is not yet
completed, although in use. Of the seventy
windows that light the building, thirty-seven are
memorial to saints and sacred subjects; they
were made at Chartres, France, and presented by
parishes and individuals. All this is beautiful in
design, and indicates refinement in art and culture,
but a Latter-day Saint could scarcely help solilo-
quizing on the subject of empty forms and cere-
monies such as present themselves in a place of
Catholic worship. While we were there admir-
ing the workmanship and ingenuity that had
planned this handsome edifice, one after another
the worshipers came in and knelt for a moment at
some one of the many crosses that were in the
body of the cathedral, or dipping their fingers in
the elegant basins of holy water, crossed them-
selves with the utmost sanctity, and counted over
their beads.
	The architecture of this vast cathedral is of the
style that prevailed in Europe in the thirteenth
century, of which it is said the Cathedrals of
Rhiems, Cologne and Amiens on the continent
and the naves in the York, Minster, Exeter and
Westminster are exponents. The edifice is of white
marble with base of granite. The columns that
support the roof are of the most highly polished
white marble, and all the interior of the building
is as exquisitely elegant, seemingly, as it could
possibly be made. No expense has been spared,
evidently, in fitting up this grand cathedral for
sacred worship.
	Wandering out of the Roman Catholic domain,
pondering upon religious views and opinions of
the various sects and denominations of the day,
we mentally contrasted the condition of the vari-
ous churches with that of the true Church, and
congratulated ourselves that we were so highly
favored as to have a positive knowledge of the
principles of life and salvation, that we might not
be tossed about with every wind of doctrine, and
the dogmas of man, who preach for hire. We
went into Fifth Avenue to see some of those
palaces of the rich that stand there in silent
beauty, as ornaments to the great metropolis. On
this street are the Vanderbilt residences, and also
the palatial home of John Jacob Astor.
	The Lieut. also took us to see the fourteen
story tenement houses, occupied as French Flats,
which, on account of their style and magnificence,
rent for enormous sums per month. Daylight
was fast waning into starlight as we wended our
way to the Grand Central Hotel on Broad-
way. Part of the evening we spent most agree-
ably with Mr. and Mrs. John Neals, well known
in Utah, in company with Mr. Fred Clawson, son
of Bishop H. B. Clawson, who is in college in
New York, studying very hard, and preparing
himself for professional work.

[Column 3]

	The second day in New York we devoted to
calling upon acquaintances, etc. The most inter-
esting place we visited was the old store and pub-
lishing house of the Phrenological Journal (Fowler
& Wells) There we found Mrs. Charlotte F.
Wells busy as possible attending to business,
though now on the shady side of seventy. She
took great pains to show and explain many of the
skulls ranged there as phrenological studies, and
gave us much information in detail concerning
each one as she handled them. It is quite appar-
ent that she takes great delight in this labor, and
her life and energies are devoted largely to
scientific pursuits, which she has the ability to
treat upon with intelligence in a very happy man-
ner. In the evening we attended the Madison
Square theatre, and saw a very good domestic
drama—The Minister's Daughter—a play with
an excellent moral and very well presented. The
theatre is quite unique in style and prettily decora-
ted, the striking novelty being an elevator stage,
which is raised and lowered between the acts, and
renders the business part quite easy, and does
away with the waiting between acts, which is
sometimes very tedious. There was a fair sized
audience, but the only face we knew was that of
one of the Utah Commissioners, who seemed per-
fectly at ease with his conscience, and smiled as
serenely as if he had not helped to kindle the in-
dignation of the nation against some of the best
citizens of this free Republic. How many happy
homes are broken up, or helpless women and
children cast upon the charity of a cold, unfeel-
ing world, while the husbands and fathers of lov-
ing families are immured in vile and unwholesome
prisons, such men care not, while they can draw
a fat salary from the public treasury. But it must
needs be that offenses come, and God's plans go on
notwithstanding the opposition from the doctrines
and precepts of men. The Latter-day Saints can
with all safety acknowledge the hand of God in
all things and trust in His deliverance in the fu-
ture as in the past.
	This is but a cursory glance at New York City,
and though we have plenty of material we must
be brief in description. Returning from the
theatre with Mr. Clawson, we had an excellent
opportunity to see New York City by gaslight, and
as he knows the city thoroughly, and the stores
were on parade, so to speak, and the streets
thronged, we went on several of the most fashion-
able ones and saw the elaborate display made at
this festive season of the year.
	In our next we will treat upon New England in
winter, its scenes and places, and how things
looked there and the great changes which had
taken place during forty years' absence.


THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

	On Monday, the 11th inst., the Territorial Legisla-
ture convened for the purpose of enacting laws
for the people whose representatives they are.
Some of the present members have, for a number
of years, assembled here in this capacity,
which fact shows the great esteem in which they
are held in their several constituencies; whilst
others are comparatively young and inexperienced
men. Yet, the fact that they are elected to such
offices of honor and trust, proves their efficiency,
and that they possess the highest regard and confi-
dence of the people.
	We sincerely hope that during this session the
best of feelings will prevail, and success crown
all the efforts for wise and necessary legislation
that the members may attempt. However, the
outlook is anything but promising, while a governor
with the absolute veto threatens that he will do
nothing for the people until the legislature pass
laws against the people. In reality this is all that
the long harangue, called the Governor's Message,
delivered Tuesday afternoon, amounted to. In


[Column 1]
reviewing the message, it is not our purpose to
dwell at any length on its several parts—points it
has few—in fact it does not merit it, for the whole
is merely a mixture of egotism, insinuation and
abuse, such as might usually be expected in an
anti-polygamy lecture, gotten up for outside effect.
We regard it as a perfect insult to the people of
this Territory, and can readily imagine the feel-
ings of disgust which must have arisen in the
breasts of our legislators while they were com-
pelled to sit quietly and listen to it. Look at such
sentences as these:
	"Remember the aid given by the government to
the hardy pioneers who settled Utah. Remember
that not one life of those who settled Utah was
put in jeopardy in the battles with Mexico." To
what aid does His Excellency refer? We remem-
ber only that in those days our government refused
to protect us, and allowed us to be driven from
our comfortable homes into the wilderness. Sup-
port during our long journey, and in the early
days in Utah, we had none, save from the One
who protects all who have faith in Him—our
Heavenly Father. We remember, in the hour of
our greatest need, government called upon us for,
and was willing to take from us, our strongest and
bravest men to aid in the war with Mexico. Was
no life in jeopardy then? Is there ever a battle
fought in which only the actual participants are in
danger? Was there not danger in this instance
to those poor wives, mothers, sisters and children
who were left on the lonely, dreary plains to pur-
sue their journey without their kind protectors?
We do not ask Governor Murray to think of the
sufferings, the hardships, the trials that our people
endured in the early days of Utah, when they
lived in the rudest huts, ate roots and the coarsest
food, fought and labored day and night to protect
themselves from the wolves and Indians. He is
perhaps incapable of considering the thought, but
he ought to remember that the men to whom he
delivered this shameful address were either the
early settlers themselves, or sons of the noble
pioneers, or at least their representatives, and
they knew and felt the fallacy of his assertions.
We will not pursue the subject of the message
throughout, only to mention the advice the
Governor gives after recommending the passage
of the marriage law, which is embodied in the
new Edmunds Bill. He says: "I recommend the
enactment of laws against polygamy, bigamy and
unlawful cohabitation commensurate with the law
of Congress, as interpreted by the Supreme Court
of the United States."
	To some extent Congress might be pardoned for
enacting such laws, for they do not understand
the true condition of the people here, and are
actuated by popular prejudice, and lured on by a
man recognized as an astute and influential politi-
cian. They act blindly, and do not care to enquire
far into a question which concerns themselves
little while they have other measures nearer their
own interests to adopt; but the idea that our own
representatives would attempt the enactment of
such laws is absurd and scarcely deserves a
thought.
	What measures the present legislature may
adopt is, of course, unknown, but we feel assured
they will be such as will best aid and benefit the
people. For a long time the parties framing and
enacting these laws against Utah have declared
that they did so in defense of the "poor, down-
trodden women of Mormondom," that they wished
to loose our fetters and restore to us the rights
that we hold to be every woman's due. As the
voice of the women of Utah, the EXPONENT de-
clares, we are neither poor, down-trodden, fettered
nor wronged, but on the contrary, rich in the
happiness and peace of our homes, upheld and
honored in every way, as wives and mothers
should be, we have no fetters, save the golden
chains of affection, and are wronged only by our
enemies. 'Tis not the women of Utah who desire

[Column 2]
such legislation. Our cry has ever been, "We
are content; leave us alone." And now we be-
seech Congress and all who have had a hand in
framing and passing these laws against us to
pause and go no further, but retract the steps al-
ready taken, restore to us the liberty the Edmunds
law has taken away, and give us back from prison
and exile our husbands and our fathers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO PRESIDENT CLEVELAND.

DELEGATE JOHN T. CAINE AGAIN WRITES TO
	THE PRESIDENT TO REFUTE LIBELS AND
	AND APPEAL FOR JUSTICE.

	By courtesy of Hon. John T. Caine we are
favored with a copy of the following letter, which
he presented to President Cleveland on the date
mentioned:
		WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 10, 1885.
	Sir—I have the honor to transmit herewith the
result of the inquiry made by the Council of Salt
Lake City touching the unfounded representations
made to you by the Governor of the Territory of
Utah and other Federal officials, seriously reflect-
ing upon the peaceable and law-abiding character
of the "Mormon" citizens of that Territory.
	I am sure that you will be convinced after read-
ing the official report of the City Council, that the
Federal officials grossly misrepresented the
character of the "Mormon" people, and that there
was not a scintilla of truth in the statements they
made to you of danger to life and property at the
hands of lawless men inspired by "Mormon"
leaders.
	You will notice that the scope of the inquiry
was broad enough to cover the whole ground;
that the Federal officers and the military authori-
ties were invited to be present and give their testi-
mony; that every wild rumor was traced to its
origin. You will observe that it was conclusively
proved that no body of armed men came into Salt
Lake City, and that the rumor of the threatened
lynching of Deputy Marshal Collin was wholly
untrue; that the gathering at the City Hall on the
night of the shooting of McMurrin by Collin was
a quiet and orderly assembling of not more than
two hundred people; that the stories about the
secretion of arms and ammunition in the city, and
the organizing and arming of "Mormons" in the
various settlements throughout the Territory were
without any foundation in fact.
	I cannot doubt, sir, that you must be satisfied
that the monstrously false stories which have been
telegraphed to the eastern press had their source
in the same quarter whence emanated the repre-
sentations made to you. They are but exaggera-
tions of the baseless rumors which irresponsible
partisans of the Governor originated, doubtless
for the sole purpose of affording him a pretext for
requesting the quartering of Federal soldiers in
Salt Lake City.
	As I have, heretofore, assured you, verbally and
in writing, it is not the presence of troops quar-
tered in the city of Salt Lake, which we protest
against, but the false, malicious, and inexcusable
misrepresentations which induced you to order
them thither. I beg you, sir, to reflect for a
moment upon the serious injury these false accusa-
tions have caused a whole community, which,
whatever may be the difference of opinion, respect-
ing some of its religious teachings and practices,
is recognized by the whole civilized world as an
eminently peaceable and conservative one. Not
only have the vast material interests of the "Mor-
mon" people been irreparably damaged by these
wickedly false stories, but a feeling of insecurity
has been created thereby in the minds of capital-
ists who have invested millions in Utah.
	I respectfully submit, Mr. President, that the
men who have so grossly deceived you in this
matter are unworthy of your confidence and unfit


[Column 2]
to represent the Federal government. Their of-
fense has not been a trivial one. It is a very
grave and serious matter to bear false witness
against an individual, and still more reprehensible
to villify, traduce and lie about a whole people.
The offending of the unworthy officials has been
aggravated by their inspiring the wildly sensational
dispatches to the press of the country, which
would have been treated as they deserved by all
reflecting people if the stamp of truth had not
been given to the same by the ordering of troops
from Omaha to Utah, and the quartering thereof
in Salt Lake City.
	Far removed as you are from the scene of these
occurrences, and naturally reposing confidence in
the men who represent the Federal Government
in Utah, you doubtless felt that it was but pru-
dence on your part to respond to their application
for additional troops. Controlling, as these officials
do, an intemperate and violently partisan news-
paper, and through it the associated press dis-
patches sent from Salt Lake City, they have been
able to give wide circulation to their deliberately
manufactured falsehoods. The action of the
Federal Government, thus induced, in its turn
superinduced a belief on the part of millions of
people that the "Mormons" were on the point of
actual rebellion. While, therefore, it is true that
the presence of additional troops in Utah and the
quartering of a company in Salt Lake City has not
been per se an injury to any individual the result-
ant consequences have been most seriously
injurious to the "Mormon" people and indeed to
the whole country.
	The men who are responsible for these things,
I repeat, ought not to retain your confidence. I
submit, moreover, that in view of the demonstra-
ted unreliability of these officials, of their (to say
the least) suspicious conduct, the people I have
the honor to represent ought to have the oppor-
tunity to be heard by fair and impartial men who
would report the truth to you. I am sure that
there are many such men who would gladly re-
spond to an invitation from you to visit Utah and
make inquiry and report the facts for the guidance
of your administration.
			Very respectfully,
						JOHN T. CAINE.
	To the President.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	GUNLOCK, WASHINGTON CO., UTAH.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I thought that a few lines from this isolated
place might perhaps be of interest. We are
but few in number, but feel to do our part in
the great work that we, the Latter-day Saints,
are engaged in.
	The Relief Society is in a good condition.
Since the death of our beloved president, Sister
Salenda E. Huntsman, which occurred June
10th, 1884 Sister E. Truman has presided.
Sister M. M. Holt presides over the Primary,
and all our little ones are greatly interested.
					LUCY TRUMAN.

		WASATCH STAKE.

	The Quartarly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Wasatch Stake of Zion was held in
Heber City, Oct. 29th, 1885. There were
present, Prest. Emma Brown and her Counsel- 
ors; also several of the branch Presidents.
Sister Brown expressed herself pleased to meet
in a conference capacity again. The presi-
dents gave in their reports, which were very
favorable, showing a good feeling prevailing
throughout the Stake.		
	Sister Alexander said she wished to still
continue faithful and be an example to her
sisters and her children.
	Sister Daybell said her desire was to do her


[Column 1]
part in helping to build up the kingdom of<v and="" received="" words="" of="" counsel="" encourage-="" r="" .ment="" priceless="" worth="" .to="" every="" latter-day="" saint.="" we="" were="" pleased="" to="" see="" our="" brethren="" from="" salt="" lake,="" also="" some="" of.the="" .young="" missionaries="" who="" on="" their="" return="" home..="" the="" southern="" states,="" but="" came="" this="" way="" country="" attend="" .conference.="" when="" i="" look="" upon="" bright="" intelligent,="" honest="" faces="" of'those="" young="" utah="" boys,="" as="" peey.them="" time.to="" time="" returning="" their’missions,="" often="" think="" that="" such="" boys="" can="" nowhere="" else="" be="" found.="" they="" are="" full="" '="" life,="" youth="" vigor,="" yet="" devoted="" religion="" and-="" true="" god,="" bravo="" )="" enough="" face="" a="" wicked="" world="" warn="" them="" j-i="" ‘.="" '°f="" gr6at="" judgments="" await="" them.="" while.="" ci="" t="" wasamong="" saints,="" until="" ‘="" ‘j.="" saw="" fit="" take="" up="" my="" abode="" iii="" thisjand,="" could="" not="" fully="" realize="" what="" bless-="" ,="" jng="" it="" is="" reared="" among="" the.people="" ppd,="" with="" those,="" sacred="" principles="" born="" brod="" in="" ,.r="" ?="" us="" they,="" part="" ,6f="" yery="" natures.="" .="" it,="" like="" planting="" good="" seeds="" piire,="" rich,="" ;="" (="" nevy="" soil,="" where="" no="" noxious="" weeds="" have="" ev6r="" vgroyrn..="" if="" h="" sq:="" ;tbo36="" ftho="" e&i="" brace="" the.="" gospel'="" 'the="" world;="" most="" th'ent="" "="" a‘mind="" false="" ideas="" superstitions="" overcome,="" which="" haye.="" rooted="" out,;="" and’="" takes="" lifetime="" instances="" get="" rid="" thetn.="" here="" at="" liberty;="" plant="" youngs="" -="" tender="" minds="" .?="" .children,="" whicn="" will="" grow1="" yield="" an="" abundance="" fruit.="" :="" primary="" association="" manassa="" is-in="" jja.="" flourishing="" condition.="" both="" ofiicer3="" members="" seem="" alive="" duties.="" sabbath="" school="" day="" schools="" u.="" thriving="" condition,="" many="" elder-="" people="" taking="" great="" interest="" child="" ren.="" people’s="" associations="" re-="" ar-i="" rj="" lief="" society="" doing="" well,="" antici-="" pate="" pleasant="" ihia="" winter.="" thahealth="" -f="" good-rr-much)="" better="" than;-it.="" was="" last="" year.="" building="" very="" fast,="" been="" blessed="" crops="" gardens.="" saints="" well="" satisfied="" prospects="" here,="" striving="" make="" comfortable="" homes="" ;the:="" beautiful="" valley="" wo="" located.="" believe="" that'the="" hand="" god="" -our="" settling="" he="" has="" thus="" far="" u3,="" -and="" w9="" know="" continue="" bless="" strive="" do="" his="" will.="" —="" eyerayishing="" success="" ;to="" you="" .and="" all.="" those="" engaged="" this'good="" workyl="" remain,="" your="" co-worker,="" samantha'="" t.="" bolce.="" <="" div="">
God; said, "The time has come when we will
all be tried to see if we will stand faithful
through all the trials for the Gospel's sake."
	Sister Murdock said, "We will have to
sacrifice everything for the Gospel, if our de-
sire is to do right."
	Bro. Clegg addressed the conference for a
short time; said, "The Relief Society is a great
help to the Bishops in taking responsibilities
from their shoulders and making their burdens
lighter." He felt like asking the blessing of
the Lord on the President and her Counselors.
Singing. Conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon meeting opened by singing.
Prayer by T. H. Giles. Sister Duke gave a
report of the Wallsburg Ward. The following
ladies addressed the meeting, and gave good
and valuable instruction: Sister Foreman, Sis-
ter Todd, Sister McMullin, Sister See and
Sister Brown. T. H. Giles spoke a few words.
	Prest. Hatch then addressed the conference
on the financial affairs. Advised the sisters
not to loan their wheat without interest. Urged
the mothers to look after their children and
give them good counsel, that their example
might be worthy of imitation. Said he de-
sired to do right, and asked the blessing of the
Lord on the Relief Society.
	Prest. Brown make a few closing remarks.
Conference adjourned sine die. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
	   MARY BRONSON, Secretary,
	   AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't Secretary.

		    MANASSA, COLORADO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with pleasure that I once more attempt
to write to your valuable paper, that you may
know that the Saints in this land are yet alive
and striving to serve God.
	Our quarterly conference is just over, and
we have had a truly enjoyable time together,
and received words of counsel and encourage-
ment of priceless worth to every Latter-day
Saint. We were pleased to see our brethren
from Salt Lake, and also some of the young
missionaries who were on their return home
from the Southern States, but came this way
to see the country and attend conference.
	When I look upon the bright, intelligent,
honest faces of those young Utah boys, as we
see them from time to time returning from
their missions, I often think that such boys
can nowhere else be found. They are full of
life, youth and vigor, and yet they are devoted
to their religion and true to their God, brave
enough to face a wicked world and warn them
of the great judgements that await them. While
I was among the Latter-day Saints, and until
I saw fit to take up my abode in this land, I
could not fully realize what a priceless bless-
ing it is to be reared among the people of God,
with those sacred principles born and bred in
us until they are a part of our very natures.
It is like planting good seeds upon a pure, rich,
new soil, where no noxious weeds have ever
grown. But it is not so with those who em-
brace the Gospel in the world; most of them
have a mind full of false ideas and superstitions
to overcome, which have to be rooted out, and
it takes a lifetime in most instances to get rid
of them. Here we are at liberty to plant
good seeds in the young and tender minds of
our children, which will grow and yield an
abundance of good fruit.
	Our Primary Association of Manassa is in
a flourishing condition. Both officers and
members seem to be alive to their duties. Our
Sabbath School and day schools are in a
thriving condition, and many of the older
people are taking great interest with the child-
ren. Our young people's associations and Re-
lief Society are also doing well, and we antici-
pate a pleasant time this winter. The health
of the people is good—much better than it

[Column 2]
was last year. The country is building up
very fast, and we have been blessed with good
crops and gardens. The Latter-day Saints are
well satisfied with the prospects here, and are
striving to make comfortable homes in the
beautiful valley where we are located. We
believe that the hand of God is in our settling
here, and He has thus far blessed us, and we
know that He will continue to bless us if we
strive to do His will.
	Ever wishing success to you and all those
who are engaged in this good work, I remain,
			Your co-worker,
				SAMANTHA T. BOICE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MOTHERS! MOTHERS! MOTHERS!

	With what grief and sorrow does one witness
the sad spectacle involved in the downward
course of a young person. When we see a
beautifully constructed tabernacle, inhabited
by a bright, promising spirit, take the first
fatal step that leads to ruin, then all uncon-
sciously arises in our mind these questions:
Where is the fond, loving mother—she who
has already traversed a great distance on the
highway of life, having a knowledge of the
whereabouts of the pitfalls, temptations and
snares that await the unwary footsteps of the
young? Is she neglecting one of the grandest
duties which she, as a mother in Israel, has to
perform, to attend to more trifling matters? Is
her mind too much absorbed in the fashions of
to-day? Is she so much engrossed in the out-
ward adornment of the body, that she does not
take heed of her darling's faltering footsteps?
Alas! I am afraid that a great many of us
neglect the sterner and more important duties
of life to attend to more trifling matters.
	With what sorrow we look upon what was
once a bright, lovely being, marred, debased
and ruined, from following after vain and
hollow fashion. Mothers, do you think that
by teaching your little ones while they are
young, lessons of false pride you will thereby
earn an exalted kingdom in the heavens above?
Are you not unconsciously losing your own
place by setting the example and allowing your
children to become slaves to the above men-
tioned vice? Walking the streets in the city,
one often becomes grieved at witnessing the
haughty actions of some of the sweet little
children of Zion—babies in years, but quite
old in actions. They have already assumed a
walk and a toss of the head to show their great
importance—not becoming to older people,
much less to little ones. With some it would
seem to matter little how reduced in circum-
stances their parents, they still must be dressed
in the height of fashion, regardless of how ob-
noxious or abhorrent it is. There are some
fathers who are getting meagre salaries whose
children dress far more fashionably than the
children of others who are worth their thou-
sands.
	Now, are these things what our religion
teaches us? Does this bring us nearer to God?
Does this teach our children to be meek and
humble? Does taking time for such worldly
frivolity edify us, or cause our minds to ex-
pand? I think not. Then, let us teach our
children, and to do so, let us set the example
ourselves—to spend every precious spare mo-
ment in improvement, in gaining all possible
instruction in regard to our religion, and to
live in such a way that we may all gain an ex-
alted place in the kingdom of God.
	We should seek to make our homes as at-
tractive as lies in our power, by furnishing
them with plenty of good, useful books, house
plants and all the little articles lying within
the reach of all of us, and which, under
proper influences, give a chance for serious
thought and useful reflection, which they
might not have obtained. They will thereby
have inculcated in their minds a dislike for


[Column 2]
all things impure, among them, a dislike for
low, trashy reading, which but corrodes and
corrupts the mind. I think if every mother
will watch over the infant years of her darlings
there will not be many who will not attain to a
life of nobility and usefulness. Few will be
found walking the streets at night, or with a
desire to. Few will be ashamed to be called
too religious, but they will grow up sons and
daughters of Zion to be proud of.
	Mothers, if you wish your sweet ones to
graduate in the school of scandal and vice,
teach them to love frivolity and fashion, and
let them please themselves in every idle vanity
while young; but if you wish them to graduate
in the school of virtue and truth, teach them
obedience while young, to shun all evil, and to
obey through love, not through fear, and they
will pass with full honor.			IDA.


TIN WEDDING.

	A few of the especial friends of Mrs. Reba
B. Pratt secured some tin valuables and a
hamper each of the good things which maketh
the heart glad and took to their buggies and
rode out on Sunday to the farm of the well-
known stock man, Mr. Alma Pratt.
	Mrs. Pratt has been an invalid for years,
and unable to visit and enjoy the society she
is so well capable, mentally, of adorning. She
was President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Farm-
er's Ward until her health enforced her resigna-
tion. After the arrival of the guests, and
wishing her "plenty of tin forever," she repaid
us by reading a touching poem she had lately
written, portraying her appreciation of her life
on earth, and also most beautifully her resigna-
tion to await the Father's call, and the joy of
the kiss of the loved ones on the other bright
shore. A fear of sympathy glistened the
eye of every listener, and each heart felt
strengthened and edified in the contemplation
of the beauty and grandeur of her "blessed
hope of the future."
	Dinner was announced, and all did ample
justice, after the ride through the sharp, frosty
air, to the many inviting and palatable dishes.
After dinner we again surrounded the center
of social interest and sympathy, the invalid,
when she was the favored recipient of many
precious blessings and promises out of the ful-
ness of some great hearts who have borne the
heat of the day and the brunt of the battle
faithfully, and whom the Lord delights to own
and bless and answer their prayers.
	The sinking sun admonished us to hasten
to our warm home firesides before "jack frost"
became absolute sovereign of our frozen valley.
When we kissed our pale friend "good bye"
she said, "I am so glad you all came, for it has
made me feel better;" and our hearts answered,
"'tis sweet to comfort the sick."
						A TIN GUEST.


MOTHERS.

	No word arouses such tender feelings as
that of mother. Strong men are not ashamed
to be softened by it, and aged women mention
it with loving reverence—grandmothers as
they are in their own lives, going back to the
time when they were children, half wondering,
half-adoring at her knee, and young girls to
whom the mother was the guiding star of life,
and her precepts, those perfect utterances by
which they were ruled. Wild boys, whom
neither parental authority nor fear of the
master's cane can reduce to order, are led
without trouble by the mother's silken rein of
influence; youths who have flung off the res-
traints of religion, the fetters of morality,
and have given themselves to idleness and vice,
can be brought back in mid-career, awakened
out of their perilous sleep in Armida's garden,
and restored to their better selves by the


[Column 1]
loving words and tearful prayer of the
mother.
	Even the most hardened sinner has one pure
spot left in his heart—that wherein his mother's
memory is enshrined; and the cynic, who des-
pises all women alike, excepts her from the
general censure. No influence is so strong and
so lasting as that which the mother has over
her children, no shame so great as that which
she brings upon them when she fails in her
own life and covers her name and theirs with
disgrace. To those restless feminine souls who
cry out for more power, more authority, more
expansion in society, we would say, "You have
the largest share of all, you who are mothers
with children to guide, to educate, and to
mold." For strange as it may seem, there are
certain even of these mothers who have to be
reminded of their privileges and their duties.
Among the new race of women that has
sprung up of late years are some to whom this
grand and gracious word brings no sense of
honor—rather who look on its duties as re-
straints, and its privileges as not worth the
personal trouble involved in their mainten-
ance.
	But, if there are women like these, there
are others the elemental quality of whose
character is motherhood—that is sympathy,
unselfishness, the power of protection, the
spirit of wholesome counsel. Just as some
women are bound to be mere dolls, toys and
playthings of men and society; pretty puppets
in gala dresses, hung about with jewels and
seated on velvet cushions; creatures for show
and ornament, not for use nor yet for work;
creatures that have to be pampered and in-
dulged and that are as helpless as the infants
to which they give birth, but of which they
alone, of all the mothers in the animal world,
can take no care—so are there women who are
born mothers; women consecrated by nature to
that holiest place and function, even if for-
tune and history rule their lives otherwise. It
is a mistake to suppose that the maternal in-
stinct is universal on the one hand, or that it
is developed only by personal experience on
the other. Even women who are mothers may
be found wholly destitute of it, with not a ray
of natural feeling for their offspring; and some
who are neither wives nor mothers in fact are
all the latter in feeling. These are women
who are the chosen friends of both sexes and
all ages. To them flock all who have troubles
—and who has not?—sure of a patient hearing
and that sweet sympathy which of itself heals
the wounds laid bare to its touch. If anyone
is in difficulty, it is the motherly woman who
is asked to give her help—and seldom asked in
vain; for motherliness is the cruse of oil
wherein time and faculty never never run dry,
and the more that is given the more that re-
mains behind to give. Passion-tossed men go
to her for wise advice and calming counsel;
erring women go to her for pity for the past
and strength for the future; little children
carry to her their childish grief, their innocent
sins, their wants and fears, and perplexities;
she gives to all what they seek, richly, abun-
dantly, and of those who respect her there is no
one who fears.
	Pure herself, she can pity the backslidings of
the frail, and aid in the upward path the totter-
ing feet of the weak. Living apart from the
world of dark temptation, she has the sublime
mercy which comes from purity and love com-
bined for those who lie on her breast stained
and despairing. Firm in her own life, she can
accept those who are neither; knowing no tor-
tures of remorse, she can feel for those who
suffer; and she is a mother to the guilty as well
as to the sorrowful. Beautiful as nature, pro-
tective as our country—both of which we also
call mother—she is the refuge of all who want
and are weary; and only the flippant, the shal-

[Column 2]
low, the insincere, and the vain find her hands
closed and her heart shut.
	And in a smaller sphere than this—in the
quiet home, where is no overwhelming tragedy
of crime, no wide-straying aberrations to con-
done, how priceless the service rendered by
the mother to her people! If some calamity
of loss or death troubles the family, she is the
one to console the rest; and, while leaving the
heaviest portion for herself, finds means to
lighten the burden of each in turn. If sick-
ness is about who but she is head nurse, even
if she herself is weak, and more needing care
than rightly capable of giving it? and to her is
owing more than half the honor of the re-
covery. If happiness is on hand, her smile
seems to lend a brighter ray to the sunshine, to
add some notes of sweeter harmony to the
melodies afloat. They all feel that without the
mother nothing would be so beautiful, nothing
so happy or well-ordered as it is now. It is
she who seems to give the point, the salt; she
who is the centre of the circle. Motherless,
the young girl's love loses something of its
blessedness; and Fame sounds but a tremulous
blast through her silver trumpet if there is no
mother to take pride in the success of her
son.
	The home which her presence once rendered
blessed, her loss has now left desolate forever;
and families, to which she has the central tie
that kept them together, fall asunder when
she has gone. Those who have never known a
mother feel for all their lives that they have
lost a good which nothing can make up to
them. However desolate the motherless child-
hood may be, the after maturity also suffers;
and there is always the sense of having had
less than others, of having lost more than
others. The thousand petty sorrows and perse-
cutions of childhood, which a mother's presence
would have prevented, tinge the color of the
after thoughts; and the feeling of desolation
that was born then continues, with more or
less intensity, to the end. A stepmother, if
she is perfect of her kind, does not answer the
same purpose. "My own mother" has a ring
in its tender tones that can not be transferred;
and even the heartiest "she is like my own
mother," does not fake the place of the yearn-
ing which all the early orphaned have, to have
known the true mother, and to have a distinct
remembrance of her personality. It is the one
insatiable desire of children to know all about
the dead mother; and no saint receives more 
fervent worship, or comes to be more of a per-
fected ideal, than she who died in her child's 
infancy, leaving behind her a memory of per-
petual youth and divine beauty, of pathetic
interest crystallized forever by the fact of her
premature loss. The dead mother is, in fact,
the saint to the imagination of her children,
and no treason would be considered so gross
as that which should endeavor to show her as
she was—faulty, like the rest of us, and per-
haps more blessed in the early death than she
would have been in the longer living. Those
brief visits of hers to the nursery, if remem-
bered at all, are remembered as the dominant
circumstances of the childish life. It would
be useless, and as cruel as useless, to say how
brief they were, how unsatisfactory and un-
substantial.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		REFLECTIONS.

	At this merry holiday time one's mind
naturally glides back over the past years of life,
and every holiday seemed to be lived again.
Even as such days are joyous, we feel the
same lightheartness as of yore, and if we have
known sorrow or bitter experience, how vivid-
ly it is recalled at this time, and we live it all
over again, though perhaps the years have
softened it and made our burdens lighter.

[Column 2]
How we see again the dear ones moving about
in childhood's home, ministering to our every
want. But the sacred object that memory
dwells on is the sainted mother, that did so
much to make her children happy and caused
their little hearts to beat as contentedly as if
their simple presents came through the wealth
of a million.
	O, how vividly do I remember my own
darling mother, and the last Christmas she was
with us in the dear old home! I gaze again
into her great dark eyes, beaming with loving
tenderness; in fancy I watch her slender, pale
hands crimp the dainty ruffles so spotless and
white, even as her own pure soul, that was so
soon to take its flight. Little did I dream
that when the early blossoms came in the spring
that she, who was the life and light of the
home, would be quietly resting in the cold and
silent grave. Yet, we feel her gentle spirit
did watch over her loved ones, and still smiles
from above, when we are treading the humble
path she trod; but such is life, and mothers so
well beloved are ever passing away, thus leav-
ing hearts near crushed with despair. Yet,
through the help of a kind, loving Father, we
struggle on, still hoping to climb the dizzy
heights in safety, no matter how rough the way
may be.
	Since we have become mothers, we will own
the pleasure it gives us to be able to help good
Santa to fill the little stockings hung up for
his particular use, and how proud we are when
we must borrow grandma's stocking because
there is none other that will hold enough for
the last new baby. Even as we rejoice over
this, we mourn over the empty space where
one hung on the former Christmas, but is now
like its dear little owner, laid away to rest.
But blessed assurance, we know that the spirits
of our babes are in God's own care, there to
wait till He calls forth the holy dust from the
lone hillside to unite with the immortal part
on the resurrection morn. As the tears fall
while we think of the treasures we have laid
up in heaven, we make new resolutions to strive
still harder to make all the dear ones happy
who depend in a great measure on us for their
earthly joys. On this day, that is celebrated
as the one that gave our Redeemer birth,
should we not make every exertion to render
all hearts light as far as our influence will
reach, and that is much farther than many of
of us realize.
	We know that all, old or young, feel a new
thrill of delight when they are remembered, if
only by one loving friend and some simple
token of remembrance. A few sweet words of
encouragement are often more to be prized
than costly presents wrung from selfish hearts
that only give for praise.
	We must all remember our faithful brethren
now lying in prison because they will not ig-
nore the sacred covenants they have made and
turn traitors to the cause of God. We will
plead, and not in vain, that our Heavenly
Father will comfort and bless them, also their
helpless wives and innocent children, from
whose arms they have been torn. Our hearts
will go out in sympathy to the exile wandering
on a foreign shore, and our soul will swell
with mighty gratitude to an Allwise Parent
that our noble Presidency are still preserved.
While we remember all these honored ones, our
hearts yearn with an unsatisfied longing for
the society of our near and immediate friends
—the members of our own family. Families
are broken up and the inmates scattered afar,
because of circumstances, over which we have
no control, but chiefly through the merciless
raid forced upon an innocent people for serv-
ing God the way they believe will win them a
salvation and a crown in His kingdom. But
though Satan howl he cannot frighten the
faithful; it will rather make more strong their
determination to keep the commands of God,


while they pity and scorn the wretches who
are seeking to destroy them.
	We have bid good bye to the dear old year
—what may the new one bring? Alas, we can-
not tell; yet we are certain all will be well
with the just and the true, and to each dear
sister and brother that we have met and
learned to love, and to every Latter-day Saint,
especially the sick and poor, the lonely and
desolate, we wish a happy new year.
				MARY S. BURNHAM.
	Burnham, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Thibetan women are restricted to the
color green in their clothes; but they purchase
corals and pearls to ornament their head-dress,
which is the most costly part of a Tibetan
lady's attire, and is sometimes of the value of
a thousand pounds sterling.
	Miss Florence Hale, of the Ladies' Art Asso-
ciation, New York, stains and paints glass,
and fires her decorated glass and china in her
own kiln. She has orders from large firms to
copy ancient stained glass, and is said to be
the only woman in this country who does this
work in all its stages.
	Mrs. Farr, of Minneapolis, this year gave a
Christmas dinner to the newsboys of that city.
Mrs. Farr is a business woman, doing a busi-
ness of $60,000 annually. She takes a great
interest in poor children, and is a special
friend to the newsboys and bootblacks of Min-
neapolis.—Woman's Journal.
	Genevieve Aylmer Farrell, of Arlington
Heights, Ill., though but eleven years old, has
been for three years an active and successful
silk culturist. As her parents are invalids,
much responsibility devolves upon her. She
has fitted up a cocoonery with everything
needful; in the past three summers she has
raised six fine crops of silk-worms, and her
cocoons and reeled silk are said to be marvels
of beauty. During the past year she has
edited a silk culture department in several
papers, and has written a series of letters on
the subject for various papers and magazines.
Last spring she published a book entitled
"Two Summers in a Cocoonery," which is highly
praised.


Patents have been issued to women during
the fortnight ending December 1st, 1885, as
follows:
	Harriet N. Ewing, Philadelphia, Penn.
Game Apparatus.
	Harriet A. Hulburd, Perrysburg, Ohio,
Scrap-book.
	Elizabeth Hull, New York, Folding Soap-
dish.
	Ellen N. Price, Brighton, England, Convert-
able Garment.
	Jennie R. Fuller, Toledo, Ohio, Fire-
escape.
	Mary J. Liggett, Wooster, Ohio, Bed-cover
fastener.
	Charlotte E. Page, Chicago, Ill., Neck-tie.
	Rachel S. Thompson, Hamilton, Ohio, Cas-
ter.
	Patents have been issued to women during
the fortnight ending December 8, 1885, as
follows:
	Mary E. Clark, Fairville, N. Y., Fruit-
drier.
	Mary M. Jones, Menomonee, Wis., Corset.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Stain on cups and saucers may be removed by rubbing
	with ashes.

	If the oven is too hot when baking, place a small dish of
cold water in it.


<lry 'they="" ;are="" excellent="" -terpolish="" stoves="" tiiathiiye="" not="" been="" blatkendd="" for'some="" length="" of="" tlmp'.="" '="" -:="" :i="" ‘="" -ii.v="" i="" r.="" ti="" i.="" -="" a="" turqi#="" deltiatr—clan="" dnd.pare="" some,="" turnips',="" and.="" pt,="" them="" in.="" two-,="" ipngtjiwise;="" melt'godrsirni="" piece.="" ;of-="" butjerj="" andput="" it="" intar="" saucepan,="" with,="" tlturnips.jdnd="" a.-="" spopnful,="" ,11,0nr..="" cook.="" qn.="" a,="" brisk="" fire,;="" yflthoqt="" ieting="" the="" turnips="" turn,="" yellow;="" moisten="" with.milk="" or="" good="" stock,.="" i'iha="" p!p?h,of.powerugarjand,="" ty.tfipwhole="" simmei="" tj="" hq="" sauce="" nearly.bsorbed.ythen;dishnp,="" -a<="" div="">	When sponge cake becomes dry it is nice to cut it in
thin slices and toast.

	To remove mildew, soak in butter-milk and spread on
the grass in the sun.

	To brighten the inside of a coffee or tea pot, fill with
water, add a small piece of soap, and let it boil about forty
five minutes.

	Old newspapers will put the finishing touch to newly
cleansed silver, knives and forks and tinware better than
anything else. Rub them well and make perfectly dry.
They are excellent to polish stoves that have not been
blackened for some length of time.

	A Turnip Delicacy.—Clean and pare some turnips, and
cut them in two lengthwise; melt a good-sized piece of
butter, and put it into a saucepan with the turnips, and a
spoonful of flour. Cook on a brisk fire, without letting
the turnips turn yellow; moisten with milk or good stock,
add a pinch of powdered sugar, and let the whole simmer
till the sauce is nearly absorbed; then dish up.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the First Ward, Salt Lake City, Nov. 28th,
1885. Sister Elizabeth Lovett, born Oct. 21st, 1824. She
was a loving and indulgent mother, and a most affection-
ate wife to an invalid husband, whom she nursed with the
tenderest care for five long years, and survived him just
ten years. Of our departed sister it can truthfully be said,
she has come up through much tribulation and washed her
robes white in the blood of the Lamb. She was a teacher
in the Relief Society a consistent Latter-day Saint, and
died as she had lived, in full faith of the Gospel, and in
the hope of a glorious resurrection.
						M. F. STEEL, Prest.,
						ANNIE S. MUSSE, Sec


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
sister, Esther H. Davis, who departed this life December
21st, 1885, in her thirty-eighth year, were unanimously
adopted and sustained by the Primary Association of Big
Cottonwood Ward:
	Whereas, Our esteemed sister was formerly President of
the Primary Association of Big Cottonwood Ward, where
she was greatly loved and respected by every member of
the association, and,
	Whereas, In the loss of this our much esteemed sister,
we have parted with a willing worker, at all times, and one
who was ever devoted to the cause of truth and righteous-
ness,
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved family and
relatives in their great loss, and while we mingle our tears
with theirs, we look forward with the hope of meeting
her again, in the morning of the first resurrection of the
just.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
bereaved family, that a copy be placed upon the minutes
of the association, and that one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
				ELLEN SUTHERLAND, President,
				MARY QUIST,
				EMILY E. STEVENSON, Counselors,
				MARY E. SUTHERLAND, Secretary


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
	MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods 
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
	CALL AND EXAMINE. 

	DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country probmptly responded to. 
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!" 
	The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah. 
[Drawing of sewing machine.]
[Text on left side placed sideways, "Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!"]
[Text on right side placed sideways, "Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years."]
Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
	SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBROIDERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
	And an elegant assortment of 
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1886.	No. 17.


MIDNIGHT MUSINGS.

		WRITTEN FOR P.S.

The fire burns low upon the hearth,
	The household sleeps, no cares intrude,
Without hath darkness wrap'd the earth,
	Within I sit in solitude.

But not alone: dear voices come,
	Breathing soft cadence in my ear,
Which through the day, all wearisome.
	With rush of work, I could not hear.

Their whisperings soothe my tired soul,
	And all its worldly longings lull;
Then o'er my passive senses roll,
	Visions most fair and beautiful.

On scrolls of purest, matchless white,
	Earth's best endeavors far above,
Engraved, as in eternal light,
	I see dear names I know and love.

The poor, the meek, the faithful ones,
	Those bowed by sorrow and by care,
These are God's daughters and His sons—
	I see their names recorded there.

And names I have not known on earth,
	So humble are their stations here,
I see enshrined with gems of worth.
	And in bright glory they appear.

Brave men, who labor day by day,
	To fling oppression boldly down;
Who nobly dare God's laws t' obey.
	Though all the world in anger frown.

Brave women, too, and chaste and pure,
	Who vaunt not here their cherished claims.
But, for the truth's sake, all endure—
	Their names are there, bright, hallowed names.

First, though I saw it not before.
	Shines the blest name of Christ our King,
Who all our pangs and sorrows bore,
	And perfect grew through suffering.

And must I close my eyes, and lose
	This gleam of heav'n, this blessed ray?
Oh! sacred is the "Midnight Muse,"
	Fairer and sweeter oft than day.


[Column 1]

WILL THE LIGHT GO OUT?

	Probably no class of persons are watching
and waiting more anxiously the final result of
the present crusade against "Mormonism,"
than those who, for reasons best known to
themselves, have apostatized and left the
Church, and are now fighting against it. No
other class have the same interest in seeing
"Mormonism" swept away, or would feel more
truly thankful if it could be proved, what they
sincerely hope it to be, a fraud, and obliterated
from the face of the earth. The reason for
this "the wise will understand," but much of it
might be explained, even to the casual thinker,
by that feeling of hatred, almost fiendish in its
bitterness, so characteristic of the "Mormon"
apostate.
	True, there are some seceders who do not
exhibit it, but I do not regard them, except in
a limited sense of the term, as apostates, for
they either belong to a class who never had
any "Mormonism" to secede from, or to an-
other, more noble but unfortunate, who have
not in their hearts entirely forsaken the faith,
though they are counted outside the Gospel
fold.
	I am speaking more particularly of those

[Column 2]

"perturbed spirits" who, not content with fall-
ing away themselves, would fain drag everyone
else along with them, or failing in that, whelm
in ruin and disaster all who prefer to cling to
the old ship Zion, despite the example of the de-
sertion and treachery which they have set them.
	Strange, is it not, that such should be the
case? These persons are, for the most part,
men and women who have been heard to say,
perhaps a thousand times, that they knew this
religion to be the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
have given evidence in many ways, most of
all by that infallible indication of faith and
sincerity, good works, that what they said they
meant, and were then in possession of a testi-
mony of its truth which they could not deny
and would not hear other gainsay. With re-
gard to the causes which have produced a sub-
sequent "change of heart," we have nothing
to say, nor of the peculiar predicament in
which such people find themselves, in repudiat-
ing with scorn what they before solemnly
avowed as a fact; attempting to trample in the
mire the jewel they once wore proudly
upon the breast, and "knowing" to be "all
wrong" what they are already on record for
as knowing to be right and proper in every
respect.
	Such are the ones, I repeat, who are the
most anxious to have it shown that the claims
of "Mormonism" to a divine origin are false;
and the proof of it is that they are straining
every nerve and effort in that direction. And
why this anxiety and unrest on their part? If
they know that "Mormonism" is not true, and
that they simply lied when they solemnly
testified that they knew it was true, what need
of all this nervous activity? Why this haggard
impatience, this feverish haste to have the so-
called "problem" solved by fire and sword,
and the fact of its falsity demonstrated in its
downfall, beyond the shadow of a doubt? Is it
a pure, unselfish, disinterested regard for the
welfare of humanity that inspires such inhu-
man propositions for the cure of an alleged
evil against which the battering rams of mob
violence, special legislation and polemical de-
bate have been thundering in vain for fifty
years? Or, is there another reason, supposed to
be carefully concealed, but nevertheless "gross
as a mountain, open, palpable," to all who see
aright, why the apostate from "Mormonism"
should desire, more than anyone else, to see the
system extirpated and all who cleave to it
swallowed up in the fierce maelstrom of popu-
lar fury?
	I take the ground, and am not afraid of its
being honey-combed, that no man who fights
against "Mormonism" after testifying in all
sincerity that he knows it to be the work of
God, feels positively certain that it is not. And
the bitterer his hatred, and the more active
his hostility to the pure and sacred principles
which he once practiced and advocated, the
more evident is it that in his heart of hearts
he fears and dreads, as only such souls can,
the possibility of its final triumph and his own
utter condemnation. It is the light which
dazzles the eyes and reveals our personal de-
fects, that we wish taken away. For the hon-
est man daylight has no terrors, but the evil-
doer, pursued by the torments of a guilty
conscience, would fain have the bright sun ex-
tinguished, the moon and stars blotted out and
the universe one eternal night, that he might
escape in the darkness and revel in his wrong
doing undisturbed

[Column 3]

	Those who are looking Zionward as the
winds and waves begin to rise and the storm-
clouds to lower overhead, and are asking
themselves the question, "Will her light go
out?" may take home to their souls a negative
response. The light will not go out. It was
the hand of God that kindled it, and not all
the floods of earth or the infernal regions can
drown it, or prevent it from "growing brighter
and brighter unto the perfect day." There is
no such thing in the programme of history as
the extinguishment of "Mormonism." That
programme was prepared in the heavens be-
fore the foundations of the earth were laid, and
though earth and heaven pass away, taking
with them to perdition all who forsake and
fight against God's truth, not one jot or tittle
of what He has forespoken and preordained
will fall to the ground unfulfilled.
	O. F. WHITNEY.


﻿THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

	The world appear blind to the signs of the
times, which to the Latter-day Saints, however,
are proving beyond a doubt that the great day
approaches when, as was long ago foretold, a
government will be set up which will never
end.
	The little stone that Daniel saw cut out of
the mountain is rolling swiftly, and will soon
fill the whole earth. The wicked rule at the
present time, and thousands mourn because of
these things, and the fearful judgments that
have commenced to be poured out upon the
nations. The desolation and pestilence that
will follow the terrible deeds that have been
and are being committed against the weak and
oppressed, they are illy prepared to meet. They
cannot see the wonderful things which are be-
ing accomplished before their eyes, and which
cannot be staid. Though they may scourge
the Latter-day Saints for a little season, it is
only a purifying process which is actually
necessary to separate the gold from the dross,
and we hope will leave none but the faithful
and true, who will render more strict obedience
to the requirements of the Gospel of Christ.
We have the consolation of knowing that the
community called "Mormons" have ever been
a strictly law-abiding people, yielding obedi-
ence to every law which promotes the interest
of morality and religious liberty. They have
been instructed to befriend and support every
constitutional law of the land from the time
that this Church was organized—fifty-six
years ago; also that those who will not abide in
the covenant, even unto death, are not worthy
to be called Saints, as the Lord has declared;
and we know that He has decreed in His heart
that He will prove His Saints in all things,
that they may be found worthy.
	To polygamy and the priesthood have been
attributed all the evils that have befallen the
"Mormon" Church. How fallacious this state-
ment is!  The early Saints know that the
principle of plural marriage was never intro-
duced, much less practiced in the Church, till
after we had passed through the most cruel
persecutions. We have repeatedly testified to
this fact, and we knew when they said that
polygamy was the only thing objectionable in
"Mormonism," that were we willing to lay
aside this doctrine there would soon be other
similar requirements made at our hands. Al-
ready are we witnessing the fulfilment, and the
war is now openly declared to be against our


[Column 1]
religion. The last infamous bill introduced
by Senator Edmunds, and now pending in
Congress, is not only to take away the Church
property, but to rob the women of the privilege
of voting—the poor, sorrowing, down-trodden
slaves of the priesthood (?) of a vested right,
conferred upon them for the purpose of placing
them in a position to free themselves from the
"Mormon" hierarchy, with the full ex-
pectation of our emimies that they
would take advantage of it and lend
their assistance to break up the "Mormon"
Church. But the Latter-day Saints are blessed
with a knowledge for themselves that God
reigns supreme. Long ago we were warned of
the events which are now transpiring in
America, our beloved land of liberty, a land
which the Lord declared to be choice above all
others, where the fulness of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ has come forth, His Church been
established, and the gathering of His people
commenced. This no power will be able to
stay; and those who are striving to rouse this
people to violence, hoping to uproot and crush
out "Mormonism" will be as sadly disappointed
as have been all their predecessors. Numerous
proposals have been made for our removal as a
body to some island of the sea—to Mexico or
South America. But having received no such
teachings, nor revelation to that effect, but to
the very opposite, and believing that when we
emigrate from these mountain regions, it will
be to the spot from whence we were driven, and
knowing that the set time is near for the ful-
filment of that prediction, we look to the Lord
to accomplish it in. His own way, the same as
He did the great move of Israel across the
barren deserts to these rocky fastnesses, which
He had reserved for them and the great multi-
tude who desired to come out of Babylon.
Here we expect to remain until the set time
comes for our return to take possession of
those homes of which we were robbed and then
driven out to perish in the wilderness. The
over-ruling hand is apparent in this, too—that
Fremont and his men had explored one or two
portions of this great basin, but finding the
soil dry,and parched, they considered it alto-
gether unfit for the habitations of men. We
have cause to rejoice when we reflect upon the
mighty work that has been accomplished in
this valley. "A little one shall become a
thousand and a small one a strong nation,"
said the Prophet Isaiah. Have not this and
many more of his predictions been fulfilled
since the early days of our pilgrimage, when
we could look forward only with the eye of
faith? Can such a people feel themselves slaves
to the priesthood, as has been charged, when
every faithful Saint in Zion may himself enjoy
a portion of the priesthood? They are bound
together by no heirarchy, but by a love which
surpasseth the understanding of man. Neither
are they low and degraded, for such are always
the quickest to rebel, while the truly wise will
yield obedience to proper authority, to those
whom they have willingly accepted as their
leaders. Those who have embraced this Gos-
pel are the freest people living. We are not
trusting to priests and to their prayer like the
sectarians who suppose they have nothing more
to do than hold on to what they have, nor to
that false authority which has been received
through the mother of harlots. Such things
may do for those who know not God, and have
not obeyed His Gospel, but this ignorance can
not exist among the Saints. Each one must
receive a testimony from on high, independent
of man's. No matter how well educated he may
be, or how high his authority, he can know
only for himself and not for another. With-
out this knowledge none will be able to stand,
for the time is here when all that can be shaken
will be shaken. It is not for only a few to the
exclusion of the many, but all may know it
for themselves, and by this means all will be

[Column 2]
intelligent and may become one in all things,
even as God and His Son Jesus are one. It is
a glorious theme to dwell upon—this fulfil-
ment of the prophetic words that were spoken
concerning the work that was to be accom-
plished in the latter days,and which is a marvel
and a wonder even in the eyes of those who
have taken part in bringing it to pass.
	While looking over the Evening and Morn-
ing Star, published in Independence, Mo., my
eyes fell upon the following, written June, 1833.
It is headed, "Israel will be Gathered," and
reads: "There is something beyond expression
that cheers the heart of the Saint while con-
templating such a happy day to come, when
everything will be turned to its proper use:
the Spirit of God upon all flesh, will cause all
to fill the place of its creation, as in the day
when all was named by Adam in the Garden
of Eden. The people of the Lord may re-
joice, for the time will soon come when they
shall plant vineyards and eat: for as the days
of a tree are the days of my people, and mine
elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth
in trouble, for they are the seed of the blessed
of the Lord, and their offspring with them."
	Should not such a people rejoice in the
midst of their tribulations, witnessing the ful-
filment of the words of the prophets? and
should not we and our descendants hail the
days which were foretold, and the many privi-
leges enjoyed through being connected with a
people whom the Gospel has made free?
Should we doubt the final triumph of "Mor-
monism?" No; I think not. Having been
forewarned of these troublous times, we ought
in this day to be able to meet the issue.
	While the emissaries of evil are working for
our destruction we can live our religion in
spite of them or any other power this side of
heaven. And Zion's watchmen should awake
and put on the whole armor of faith and stand
in defense of the precious truths which the Al-
mighty has committed unto us, and also pro-
claim them to the honest of every nation,
kindred, tongue and people. This is the mis-
sion of Latter-day Saints, and the Lord will
sustain those who stand in the defense of its
principles. We have proven that we desire
only the welfare of our fellow beings—offering
eternal life and salvation to those who are still
walking in the paths of darkness, desiring with
all our hearts to show them the better way.
We know how the evil one is blinding the eyes
of the majority of the world to their own inter-
ests. We honor those who are actuated by
principle and are possessed of the amount of
moral courage necessary to defend the rights of
their fellow creatures against their oppressors,
who are moved by the same spirit that pos-
sessed Cain when he rose up and slew his
brother Abel, whose offering the Lord had ac-
cepted, and gloried in the thing he had done,
thinking surely that every obstacle was now
removed, and that the flocks of his brother
would fall into his hands. But the doom of
disappointment which awaits those who are
seeking the downfall of "Mormonism" will be
equal to the murderer's, when, in the bitterness
of his soul, he cried,"My punishment is greater
than I can bear!"
					H. M. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVOLUTION OF THE PEACH.

	The great ancestor of the peach was purely
a tropical plant that could not endure the
least touch of frost. The almond, from which
by man's aiding nature, the peach has been
produced, is so fragile that it can scarcely be
made to grow even in the warmest portions of
the United States; yet after many ages of
coaxing and gradual acclimatization, it was


transplanted from the hot suns and the warm
fields of Arabia to the frost-touched highlands
of Persia. But instead of the rich kernel's
being the tempting food which the tree offered
to the cultivator, as was the case with the
parent almond in Arabia, it was the husk
which man ate in Persia; but not the hard,
green, indigestible, woody rind of the almond
but the rich luscious peach.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Louise Bethune a practicing architect
of Chicago, was lately elected a member of
the American Institute of Architects.

	Sadie Bay, although only 16 years of age,
is the proprietor and editor of the Buena Vista
(Col.) Wasp; does the editorial work upon her
paper, sets all the type, conducts all of the
business of the office, and runs the press her-
self. it is a hand-press, and she has the re-
quisite muscle to perform the labor. Besides
doing all the work enumerated, Miss Bay at-
tends school every day.

	Miss Kate Kane was one of the two attor-
neys who defended the three Italians sen-
tenced in Chicago a few days ago to be hung
for strangling one of their countrymen.
Judge Hawes in passing sentence referred to
their counsel as having done everything in
their behalf that could be properly and legal-
ly done, and as serving their case as faithfully
as any attorney could.

	Miss Mamie Dickens, the eldest daughter
of Charles Dickens, has written a short bio-
graphy of her father, which will soon be pub-
lished by Cassell & Co. Miss Dickens has
condensed the story of her father's public life,
and has also shown him as he was at home,
with his family and at his work. She has giv-
en what will be regarded as the pleasantest
pen picture of the great English novelist.

	The following sums are said to have been
received by the respective authors for the
works named: "Romola," George Eliot, $50,-
000; "Waverly," Scott, $3,500; "Woodstock,"
Scott, $700; "Life of Napoleon," Scott, $90.-
000; "Armadale," Wilkie Collins, $25,000;
"Lallao Rookh," Thomas Moore, $14,000; "His-
tory of Rome," Goldsmith, $1,500; "History
of Greece," Goldsmith, $1,250; "History of Eng-
land," Goldsmith, $3,000; "Vicar of Wake-
field," Goldsmith, $300; "Decline and Fall of
the Roman Empire," Gibbon, $50,000; "Lives
of the Poets," Johnson,$1,500; "Rasselas," John
son, $500.


EXPERIENCE.—To some the experiences
they pass through are like beads upon a string,
and when the thread of life is cut, they simply
roll away out of sight and out of mind. A
new business here a new friendship there; here
a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here
a birth and rejoicing, there a death and mourn-
ing; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no
special meaning attached to them and no con-
nection between them, except that of time or 
place. Another person comes out of each one
fuller, stronger, wiser than before. A serious
illness has led him to study the laws of his
physical mature, and taught him how to secure
health for himself, his family, and those whom
he may influence. A disaster in business is
sifted to the bottom, and new light is thrown on
future plans. Or a great happiness comes to
him, and he hastens to share it with others, or
learns through it how he may bless others. He
is accumulating experience, not simply to
count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain,
but to develop out of it all power and wisdom
by which his own life and the lives of all who
approach him may be improved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OH, THOU! WHO DRY'ST THE MOURN-
			ER'S TEARS.

Oh Thou! who dry'st the mourner's tear,
	How dark this world would be,
If, when deceived and wounded here,
	We could not fly to Thee!
The friends who in the sunshine live,
	When winter comes are flown;
And he who has but tears to give,
	Must weep those tears alone,
But thou wilt heal the broken heart,
	Which, like the plants that show
Their fragrance from the wounded part,
	Breathes sweetness out of woe.

When joy no longer soothes or cheers,
	And even the hope that th[-]ew
A moment's sparkle o'er our tears,
	Ay, dimm'd and vanish'd too,
Oh, who would bear life's stormy doom,
	Did not thy Wing of Love
Come brightly wafting through the gloom
	Our Peace-branch from above?
Then sorrow touch'd by Thee grows bright
	With more than rapture's ray;
As darkness shows us worlds of light
	We never saw by day
							MOORE.


A DEAD ROSE.

O Rose! who dares to name thee?
	No longer roseate now, nor soft, nor sweet;
	But pale, and hard, and dry, as stubble-wheat.—
Kept seven years in a drawer—thy titles shame thee.

The breeze that used to blow thee
	Between the hedge-row thorns, and take away
	An odor up the lane to last all day,—
If breathing now,—unsweetened would forego thee.

The sun that used to smite thee,
	And mix her glory in thy gorgeous urn,
	Till beam appeared to bloom, and flower to burn,—
If shining now, with not a hue would light thee.

The dew that used to wet thee,
	And, white first, grow incarmadined because
	It lay upon thee where the crimson was,
If dropping now, would darken where it met thee.

The fly that lit upon thee,
	To stretch the tendrils of its tiny feet
	Along the leaf's pure hedges after heat,—
If lighting now, would coldly over-run thee.

The bee that once did suck thee—
	And build they perfumed ambers up his hive,
	And swoon in thee for joy, till scarce alive,—
If passing now,—would blindly over look thee.

The heart doth recognize thee,
	Alone, alone! The heart doth smell thee sweet,
	Doth view thee fair, doth judge thee most complete—
Perceiving all these changes that disguise thee.

Yes, and the heart doth owe thee
	More love, dead rose, than to such roses bold
	As Julia wears at dances, smiling cold!—
Lie still upon this heart which breaks below thee.
			ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	We are living in very eventful days. Inci-
dents are continually occurring that test people
and show that the "Gospel net" has indeed
gathered of every kind. We find that there
are good, bad and indifferent individuals in
our midst. All that is required is something
to bring them out to show their true character.
You can judge pretty correctly how much
faith people have by their expressions, for "out
of the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaketh." A person who has faith and confi-
dence in God that He will fulfill His promises
to His people, does not speak in a doubtful,
fearful manner about the outcome of this cru-

[Column 2]

sade that is being waged against the Latter-day
Saints, but is confident that all will be over-
ruled for the good of those who trust in Him
and remain faithful.
	Those who enjoy the spirit of the Gospel do
not ask such questions as these. "Why do not
the authorities of the Church come forth and
give themselves up and stand the consequences
like men? If plural marriage is of God why
does He not protect His people from their ene-
mies, and not suffer them to be cast into prison?"
These questions are sometimes asked by those
who profess to be Saints, but I say they are
only Saints in name, or they would understand
the reason, and would feel as all true Saints
feel, anxious that our leading men should re-
main concealed, and their prayers would as-
cend daily to God that He would keep them
from their enemies.
	In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, he
made arrangements to escape from his enemies,
but some of the Saints of little faith accused
him of cowardice, and he returned, knowing
what the end would be—that his life would be
taken. Do we wish to see a similar tragedy?
There are those who are thirsting for the blood
of our prophets to-day, who would repeat the
crime committed at Carthage Jail, if they had
the chance. The blood of our beloved Presi-
dent was shed on that dreadful occasion, but
he has been preserved to bless this people and
fill the place he now occupies. He is a living
monument of God's power and mercy, and
may God grant that he may continue to be for
many years.
	Who thinks it reasonable to ask, "Why was
Jesus Christ allowed to be crucified, if He was
the Son of God?" Yet some people ask why the
Lord does not prevent His servants from going
to prison, if He commanded them to practice
plural marriage? It is just as necessary for
God's chosen people to-day to be tried, perse-
cuted and imprisoned for the Gospel's sake, as
it was for Christ to be crucified, and all
Christains acknowledge that that was essential
for our salvation. Why? To test us, to see if
we are willing to suffer for the Gospel's sake.
If we are not willing, we are not worthy to be
called Saints. Jesus said, "He that is not
willing to lay down his life for my sake is not
worthy of me." And again He said, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil of you
falsely for my name' sake; rejoice and be
exceeding glad, for so persecuted they the
prophets who were before you."
	The persecution that we receive is an evi-
dence and testimony to us that we are the peo-
ple of God whom He has chosen out of the
world, therefore we are hated and persecuted
for our religion as no other people are perse-
cuted; but if we would "be like the rest of us"
they would love us and let us alone. We do
not want their love nor anything they offer us.
—no, not even the liberty they offer us. The
liberty that the courts offer has to be bought
with too great a price for Latter-day Saints to
think of purchasing. They cannot afford to
barter away their exaltation and endless lives,
and become slaves by accepting the liberty
that the courts offer; and a man who does so to
escape a few months' imprisonment forfeits his
wives and his children and his exaltation. Bet-
ter accept imprisonment for life with honor,
and gain endless lives, that accept liberty and
dishonor. When I read about the brethren
who have made promises to the court, I wonder
how their wives feel to be cast off and deserted
by those they loved and trusted, and how their
children feel. I brought it home to myself,
and asked myself how I would feel under the
circumstances. It made me feel sick at heart;
it was terrible to think of, and I was glad to 
think of something more pleasant. I say,
"God bless and comfort my sisters who have to
endure this trial," and let me encourage you

[Column 3]

to do your duty bravely, keep your covenants
and live a pure life, and our Father will re-
ward you by giving you a noble husband, who
will not be afraid to serve Him, and will be
worthy of the affection of pure faithful women.
The man who puts away his plural wives is
more to be pitied than the wives (if they re-
main faithful), for by his cowardly act he will
bring upon himself the condemnation of a just
God, who hates and has forbidden the putting
away of wives.
	If a man breaks his covenants and forfeits
his plural wives, what about his first wife?
Has he not also forfeited her, and is she justi-
fied in the sight of God in living with him?
He made the same covenants with his other
wives as he did with her, and is under the
same obligations to them as he is to her. I feel
proud of my sisters who went to prison rather
than betray their trust, and think there are
many more who would do the same, if they
were tried the same. Many of the brethren
have shown their integrity by going to prison,
and have gained the admiration and love of all
true Saints, who remember them daily in their
prayers. I should think the wives of those
noble men would love and honor them more
than ever, and would strive to be faithful and
true to them, that they might be worthy to be
their companions for time and eternity. But
if some of their wives are unfaithful, the Lord
will give them others who are worthy; and will
reward them for all they have suffered.
	Let us, my sisters, be patient; the redemption
of Zion draweth night. Let us not murmur or
complain at the providences of God, but be
thankful that He has counted us worthy to
live upon the earth at this time, and given us
the privilege of assisting to build up His king-
dom and establish righteousness upon the earth,
thereby showing our faith by our works. Let
us try to be humble, and say, "Father, not my
will, but Thine be done," and then strive to do
it with all our might, and all will be well with
us. When Jehovah has accomplished His pur-
poses in this crusade it will cease; the prison
doors will be opened; the exiles will return;
families will be reunited; righteous men will
sit in the judgment seat, and Zion will arise
and put on her beautiful garment, and the
glory of the Lord will rest upon her. That
this day may speedily come, is the daily prayer
of	A PLURAL WIFE


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A HAPPY HOME.—"Six things," says Hamil-
ton, "are requisite to create a happy home.
Integrity must be the architect, and tenderness
the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affec-
tion, and lighted with cheerfulness, and indus-
try must be the ventilator, renewing the
atmosphere, and bringing in fresh salubrity
day by day; while over all, as a protecting
glory and canopy, nothing will suffice except
the blessing of God."

	SIMPLICITY OF EXPENDITURE.—Simplicity
of expenditure is important to peace and
happiness. By this is not meant mere retrench-
ment, but that wise and independent manner
of spending that chooses comfort, health, edu-
cation, and real refinement, and refuses vanity,
self-indulgence, and display. The spending of
money always involves choice and usually some
sacrifice. One thing must be given up for the
sake of another, and the art of selection is one
on which much of life's happiness depends.
Emerson well says, "Spend for your expense,
and retrench the expense that is not yours.
We are sympathetic, and, like children, we
want everything we see. But it is a large
stride to independence when a man, in the dis-
covery of his proper talent, has sunk the neces-
sity for false expenses."


132					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.	

SALT LAKE CITY,			FEBRUARY 1, 1886.


[Column 1]﻿

VISIT TO NEW ENGLAND.

	To go back again to one's native place after
forty years absence, and revisit the scenes of one's
childhood, is something difficult to describe, be-
cause, forsooth, the reality baffles all description.
The places that once knew you so well, know
you no longer; only here and there you may find
some old man or woman who remembers you
when a child, but can see none of the resemblance
in the mature and somewhat faded matron. "Why,
you used to have such rosy cheeks and lips," said
one old lady. "So I had, once," was the reply,
"but remember, when you knew me was more
than forty years ago." This was the village dress-
maker who came twice a year to our house, and,
in fact, to all the houses in the village, to cut and
fit and help make the summer and winter clothing.
We used to think she was an old maid then, but
now she is a very old maid. She was very prim
and precise, always looked so distant, as much as
to say, "No one must come too near me," and we
little people stood quite in awe of her; she wore a
green silk calash with a ribbon bridle, and carried
a long green silk bag, which contained, among
other things, her scissors, patterns and articles for
use in the art of dressmaking. We children
never ventured to peep into that bag, though our
curiosity was very great to see all that it contained,
but upon no account would mother allow us to
touch it. In those days little girls didn't venture
to ask as many questions as they do now, or per-
haps we might have found out what else the long
bag did have in it; but after all it is very romantic
to revel in mystery, and we had that pleasure at
least.
	"Does New England look to you as it did when
you left?" is a question we are more often asked
than any other, or, "Are you disappointed in see-
ing New England again, after all these years?"
"Not nearly so much disappointed as we had been
told we would be," has been usually the answer.
Yet there are various disappointments. One is in
the woods, although it may be said, the woods in
winter are not like the woods in summer, yet the
old New England woods as we remember them are
mostly gone—cut down and used up, and the new
growth of trees is not so large, and does not
strike one with the same sort of reverence as did
the old forests of forty and fifty years ago. Here and
there we found some woodland forests more like
"the olden time," thought it was winter, and Long-
fellow's poem, "Woods in Winter," came to mind:

	"When winter woods are piercing chill,
		And through the hawthorn blows the gale
	With solemn feet I tread the hill,
		That overbrows the lonely vale.

	But still wild music is abroad,
		Pale desert woods! within your crowd;
	And gathering winds, in hoarse accord,
		Amid the vocal reeds pipe loud."

	The dear old beech woods through which we
had so often roamed, where the partridges were

[Column 2]

wont to fly across our path, and where the tangled
shrubbery and ferns grew in luxurious profusion,
and wild berries hung gracefully from heavy laden
bushes, were all cut down, and only great stumps
and small underwood marked the spot, so cherished
among the fond recollection sof the past. Many
of the great wide spreading elms, which form
such a pleasant feature of New England scenery,
are gone; some riven by lightning, some dying
from the eating away of worms, and some have
fallen by the "woodman's axe," that spared them
not because of the new civilization that has spared
not anything that stood in the way of railroads.
Yet there are miles and miles of woods in the
country, but they are not the forests of long ago,
but the new growth of modern times.
	Talking of woods and trees, one cannot help
recalling the graceful, fragrant hemlock, and fer-
vently we can re echo Longfellow's words:

	O, hemlock tree! O, hemlock tree! how faithful are thy
		branches!
		Green not alone in summer time,
		But in the winter's frost and rain!
	O, hemlock tree! O, hemlock tree! how faithful are thy
		branches!"

	And to think of going to one's old home, and
finding the hemlock grove all cut away; the trees
under whose sheltering boughs we had sat rapt in
glad visions of the bright and glowing future, and
where in childhood's earliest days we had gone
with dolls and toys to play upon the mossy rocks,
that were swept by the overhanging boughs, and
where we listened in childish gladness to the
songs of merry birds and the soft ripple of the
murmuring brook, the same old brook that still
flows on and on, unconscious of those who played
along its flowery banks, and sometimes caught,
from out its crystal waters, the pretty minnows,
and now and then a speckled trout; yes, the same
brook, where, morning after morning, during
childhood and girlhood, we went to wash our
face and bathe our forehead in the cool water, and
where our good sister Delia says we "caught the
inspiration of poesy." The same brook, too,
where, on a cold and frosty morning in the dead
of winter, 1842, the solid ice was cut away just be-
low the dam and a knot of people gathered on either
side to see the "Mormon" Elder baptize the new
converts to the unpopular faith. The little
brook we called it, on our old homestead, only a
few rods from the house, where, after seven others,
older and wiser, had received baptism, we, too
went down with timid feet and palpitating heart,
doubting our own courage, to receive, at the
hands of one commissioned from on high, the
sacred ordinance of baptism for the remission
of sins.
	As we stood there on that wintry day, when the
brook was frozen over as on that other time in
the "long ago," many thoughts flashed o'er us, the
whole scene was re-enacted in vision, and the
question rose involuntarily, "Where are they now
who came there then to be immersed in water and
enter through the door into the true Church?"
All gone behind the vail, save one, and that one
standing there viewing over again that solemn
scene on that wintry morning. The cold north
wind was blowing fiercely, and shrieking, too, as
if moaning for the departed and the desolation
that seemed spread around; and the old fashioned
well sweep, a few feet away, creaked heavily up
and down. We were started from our reverie by
a man who came with two buckets for water, and
it seemed to us a sacrilege for him to take this
water for such common use, so reverentially we
looked upon this stream in which we had been
buried, that we might be admitted to the Church
of Jesus Christ upon the earth. In silent contem-
plation we drew near the frozen stream and walked
across, gazing down into its placid water, where
the ice had been cut away, and in our heart and
soul renewing with determined will the covenants
then and afterwards entered into, to remain faith-

[Column 3]

ful to the end. A strong testimony came with
that resolve, and a consciousness not only of the
truth of the Gospel, but of the final triumph of
right over might, and it gave such confirmation to
the soul that it seemed a mockery to stand there
silent with folded hands, and only listen to the
voices in the winds.
	From out that little village and the surrounding
farms about forty persons had been converted
and gathered to Nauvoo. Some brave and
true died by the wayside, when the Saints
were driven from their homes in that once beauti-
ful city, and only a few still remain alive of that
little flock, who, honest and sincere, received the
message of salvation, and laid their all upon the
altar of their faith.
	We found as many rocks as of old—the people
have not succeeded in getting rid of this feature
of the land, but the pretty villages are, many of
them, left sort of desolate, and many farming
houses we saw untenanted and farms uncultivated.
The flourishing towns and villages are where the
railroads run and the factories and machine shops
are built, and a large part of this population is
made up of Irish and French Canadians. And
think of grand old Puritanical Boston having an
Irish Mayor! We might almost fancy some of
those old primitive Bostonians rising out of their
graves and protesting against this usurpation of
their rights, if the dead troubled themselves about
earthly conditions. It is very galling to many of
the proud old Yankees to be obliged to tamely
submit to this sort of thing, but so it is; and we
could not forbear telling some of them, occasional-
ly, when a good opportunity offered, that if things
did not change with them it would not be long
until there would be more descendants of the Old
Puritan stock in Utah, than there would be in the
New England States, proud as they are of their
blood, and much as they despise the "Mor-
mons."
	Old maids and old bachelors still abound, and
families are mostly very small. Sometimes one
meets with a large family, but it is among the low-
ly born, and even rarely there; and at the rate
they are decreasing it will not take long for the
Puritan race to die out. It is not a pleasant
thought to dwell upon for one whose attachments
for New England and her people are specially
strong; there are causes for these effects, but at
present we are not dealing with the why's and
wherefore's, but simply touching upon facts.
	There are many interesting things and places
which one might elaborate upon, but one letter, or
two, or three would not "tell it all." Oh, no; we
have material for many sketches culled in our
travels here and elsewhere since leaving home.
As for religion, we find a variety of kinds, and
some strong advocates for each sect or denomina-
tion; but many more, the larger number, are
"lovers of pleasure," seeking for their own aggran-
dizement, comfort, happiness, or ambition.
	Their ministers preach for hire, and the rich
have their own churches, where the poor cannot
afford to go. On one occasion, going through a
very handsome church, said by some to be the
finest finished of any in the City of Boston, a
lady of the party remarked she would "like very
much to attend service there regularly."  In a
moment we asked, "Why don't you, then?" to
which she replied it would be impossible for her
to afford it, the seats were so expensive. Think
of such being the Gospel Christ preached without
money and without price! This proves it cannot
be. At another time, in a revival meeting at Tre-
mont Temple, Boston, on a Sunday evening, we
happened to sit in the same seat with several
young men. After a part of the services were
over, the contribution boxes were passed around;
they were very odd looking, and had long handles
to reach along the seats; evidently the young men
were not prepared, for, with an air of disgust, they
turned away, and one spoke loud enough for us


to catch his words—“Even here a fellow is not
wanted unless he has money."
	At the door of this, and many other places of
worship, we saw boxes to drop money into for
foreign missions, public charities, but these same
people are not willing to lay aside their prejudices
long enough to listen to one argument from a
“Mormon.” They hate "Mormons" with a bitter
hatred, and so intense is this feeling with many
that they shrink from the very thought of a “Mor-
mon” woman as though she were a monster. Yet
they applaud the deeds of Scripture women, such
as Ruth—happy for her that she is dead, for were
she living now, her name would be a byword and
reproach. And they call this Christian charity,
and their ministers preach from such texts as,
“Prove all things, and hold fast that which is
good." Fortunately there are some who are not
so narrow-minded; men and women who will
speak of the "Mormon" question candidly and
feelingly; but they are the exception. All the in-
formation the generality of the people are in pos-
session of about the "Mormons," has been
gathered from anti-Mormon writings, such as
Mrs. Stenhouse’s book, or Ann Eliza’s, or lectures
from these women and others of the same stamp,
and when one has the courage to defend the
principles of the "Mormons," and especially the
doctrine of a plurality of wives, they are horrified,
and will not listen. Still there are those who think
the new Edmunds law severe and unconstitutional
in some of its measures, and the advocates of
woman suffrage proclaim against the clause that
takes away that right from women, “and especial-
ly,” say they in public print, “the anti-Mormon
women." To tell the people that this persecution
is not going to destroy "Mormonism" and break it
up, is preposterous in their eyes; “the people are
determined," say they, “public opinion rules, and
the civilization of the age demands it.”  But God
rules, and turns and overturns kingdoms and peo-
ples, and truth will prevail, and Zion be established
never more to be thrown down, despite public
opinion and the civilization that cannot tolerate a
plurality of wives, and that calls it barbarism.
	We have heard it asserted by some that the re-
cent bill introduced into Congress by Edmunds
would so over-reach the mark as to result in good
to our cause; though they would not for a moment
be understood as countenancing such a thing as
"polygamy."  “Mormonism” is indeed a problem
that the world are not able to solve, and the more
they work at it, the more complicated it will be-
come, and the harder to handle; therefore it would
be wise for them to let the matter alone, for there
is a vital element in it that will outlive persecu-
tion, however bitter it may be; and like the stalk
of mustard, the more it is shaken the further it
will spread; so it will be, and man cannot hinder it,
for God hath decreed to do a marvelous work and
a wonder, and He will accomplish His purpose,
and prepare a people for the reign of peace upon
the earth; and it must needs be a people who will
keep a higher law, the law of God, and who will
make covenant by sacrifice; who dare to be true
to their convictions, even though public opinion
demands them to give up those sacred principles
which God has commanded them to obey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		[--]


IN MEMORIAM.

				DESSIE.

	With sadness we mention her name, for she is
gone—passed from earth away—our sweet fair sis-
ter. Death has taken one we dearly loved, and
though in sorrow we mourn and long to see her
once again, still must we feel that she is happier
far, for her suffering now is ended, and we pray
that He who wipeth the tear from every eye will
look in tenderest mercy upon those whose hearts
are grieved—the doting husband, the little child,
the bereaved mother, the exiled father, and


the brothers, sisters and friends who held her ever
in fondest endearment.
	The possessor of a bright intellectual mind, a
fine, sensitive nature and a most amiable and
pleasing disposition, Dessie ever held the highest
place in the affection of her chosen friends, a place
now to be filled only with sacred memories.
	Her life, from childhood to the grave, was
simple, pure and beautiful; she sought no public
praise, but in a retired, quiet way fulfilled life's re-
quirements, and ever charmed with delightful
conversation and delicate acts of kindness those
whom she loved. Now that she has left us, we
tenderly recall the days her presence here has
brightened, and as we turn the golden pages in
memory's book, our eyes are dimmed with tears
and our hearts filled with sad yearnings, for we
know those days are gone never to return. So in
volume even as she closed the book of life, and,
like her, look hopefully forward to a brighter,
purer life in heaven.				A.

	DESERET WELLS READ, the daughter of Daniel
H. and Martha H. Wells, and wife of Charles
Read, was born on the 18th of April, 1853, and
died on the 15th of Jan., 1886.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Territorial Legislature is meeting, as ex-
pected, with determined hostility on the part of
the Governor. He has vetoed two very impor-
tant measures which passed both houses, and in
one of his messages took occasion to add insult to
injury. The legislators, however, are calm and un-
disturbed and so far treat his slanders with digni-
fied silence.
	The new Edmnnds Bill which will be found on
another page, was introduced Dec. 8, 1885 and
passed the Senate on the 8th of January, 1886 by
a vote of 38 to 7. The latter were Senators Blair
of New Hampshire, Call of Florida, Gibson of
Louisiana, Hampton of South Carolina, Morgan
of Alabama, Vance of North Carolina and Hoar
of Massachusetts. Mr. Hoar opposed the infa-
mous measure because of the section depriving the
women of Utah of the suffrage; outside of that
portion he was in favor of the bill. The other
six whom we have named opposed it unquali-
fiedly and would under no consideration give
sanction to so palpable a scheme of robbery and
oppression.
	The following letter to the Editor of the EX-
PONENT, written Jan. 2, by Lillie Devereux Blake,
Prest. of the New York State Woman Suffrage
Association, we publish, for the present, without
comment: "At a meeting of citizens, held under
the auspices of the New York State Woman Suf-
frage Association, at No. 54, Union Place, on
Saturday, Jan. 2, the following resolution was
unanimously passed:
	Resolved; That while approving of the main
object of the bill to suppress polygamy, introduced
in the Senate of the United States by Senator
Edmunds, of Vt., we earnestly protest against the
clause which proposes to disfranchise all the
women of the Territory, whether innocent or
guilty of the crime of plural marriage, as an un-
just discrimination against the class most op-
pressed by this cruel institution, and call upon
Senators Blair of N. H., and Palmer of Ind.,
and other fair-minded men to oppose the passage
of this clause of the bill."


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			LAIE, Oahu, Jan. 9th, 1886.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—This may be considered a suita-
ble time for the expression of the honest con-
victions of those who have had experience, and

[Column 2]
can speak from personal knowledge in relation
to the much misunderstood, maligned and insulted
principle of plural marriage, as practiced by the
Latter-day Saints. As one who has had a person-
al experience of twenty years in plural married
life, besides having been intimately connected all
her life with those who have been in the practice
of that principle, I may justly claim some right
to speak upon this subject. My connection with
plural marriage is and always has been beyond
all question a matter of honest and earnest con-
viction with me. I entered that relation volun-
tarily, and "of my own free will and choice," in
my youth, heaven having kindly favored me with
the man above all others in the world, of my choice.
Not only did I voluntarily enter into plural mar-
riage with my husband, but I have voluntarily, and
with ever increasing satisfaction, given to him
other wives, with whom for over seventeen years
we have lived, much of the time under the same
roof, with such harmony, love and union, that I
look back now over all those years with unsullied
joy and satisfaction. In no instance have I wished
to change my lot or desired greater happiness
than I enjoyed. Not until our increasing family
made it necessary, did we have a thought of sep-
arating from that dear old happy home, and even
now, tho' dwelling apart, one of the greatest of
our domestic pleasures is to spend our evenings
and leisure moments together in quiet social en-
joyment in the manner of the sweet and blessed
and happy days gone by.
	Not long before the commencement of the
present infamous persecutions and prosecutions
of our husbands, fathers and brothers for loving,
honoring and sustaining their trusting wives and
children, one of my husband's wives said to me,
"I am afraid our happiness is too great, I hope
nothing will happen to deprive us of the blessings
we enjoy." I replied, "Why, what could happen?
We make our own happiness, who can take it away
from us?" Little did we dream at that time that
such a state of things as now exists would ever
come to pass in our once peaceful, free and happy
land.
	Why should I and my husband's wives, willing
and united companions in domestic happiness,
best suited to our choice, and our children, be
disturbed in our peaceful possession of the do-
mestic felicity which springs from our own hearts
and from the associations and relations which
we regard as most sacred and eternal? Who
shall dare to say that the partner of our choice is
not as dear to us and as much beloved as the
choicest husband of any woman in the land? I do
not assume to speak for my sisters without know-
ing whereof I speak, (they can speak for them-
selves,) but this much I make bold to say, there
is no other man in all this world that can fill the
station in our affections nor in our homes that
our husband occupies.
	And who can match him in his children's eyes,
or represent him in their hearts? We entered
into plural marriage in good faith, both as touch-
ing the laws of God and the laws of man. We
were not conscious of having violated
any constitutional law. The act of Congress of
1862, in relation to polygamy, the only law then
in existence relating to the matter, was universally
believed to be a "dead letter," because unconsti-
tutional, and for many years was so treated by the
courts as well as by the people of Utah, "Mor-
mons" and "Gentiles." Still when it comes
to a question of conscience, I have never
felt that I have been guilty of any crime, notwith-
standing the actions of the courts validating the
laws then in existence and since enacted against
polygamy. It is not a question of law with us,
but a matter of conscience, of religious convic-
tion and of earnest and undying faith in the laws
and purposes of God, a matter of happiness or
misery, of life or death. To be deprived of our
husband and father, in the manner prescribed by


[Column 1]
our present persecutors is to be robbed not only
of him who is the man of our choice above all
others on earth, the being dearest to the heart of
a wife, the father of her children, his providence,
guidance and protection, but of our honor and
good name, of our happiness and our home, aye
our home, for deprived of his society, impartially
bestowed, as designed and demanded by the
unprincipled crusaders, it would cease to be
home; but blessed with his society as heretofore,
shared justly by each of his families, I would not
exchange my lot nor my happiness nor my home,
however humble, with the doting mother of
President Grover Cleveland, nor with his wife—if
he had one—and he was better to her than rubies
or gold. Nor would I stop to imagine what the
world might say about it either. I have never
envied any woman's happiness, mine was enough
for me. I never coveted any woman's home, be-
cause my home,shared with my husband and his
wives, was good enough for me. I ask for no
better. I am satisfied with my lot. I have never
injured any living creature, to my knowledge. I
have never sought what did not legitimately be-
long to me, nor deprived any man or woman of a
single right guaranteed by the constitution of my
native land or the law of God; and in view of
these and many more facts and reasons which
might be named, is it unreasonable that I should
ask the government and the people of the United
States—"just be so kind to yourselves as to let
me and mine alone." Our circumstances, necessi-
ties and desires, nor the good of society, so far
as we are concerned, ever required the passage of
wicked and cruel laws to destroy our religion, to
and woe to our happy homes. There is no reason
why the Congress of the United States should
pass such laws as the acts of 1862 and 1882 and
the more shame for them that they should violate
their oath of office, and the constitution to do so,
and thereby foist a fearful blot upon the fair fame
of their country. These unconstitutional laws,
and the oppression resulting therefrom, and the
treatment of Utah by the parent government
throughout is
	"A blot that will remain a blot, in spite
	Of all that grave apologists may write;
	And tho' a bishop try to cleanse the stain,
	He rubs and scours the crimson spot in vain."
	How easy it would have been for our enemies
and for the authorities of the United States to
have adopted the counsel of one of old, in their
treatment of the "Mormon question" and saved
themselves from the fearful consequences of their
present course—consequences fraught with sor-
row, suffering and affliction to the Latter-day
Saints, but a thousand times more terrible to their
oppressors. Said Gamaliel, "Refrain from these
men and let them alone, for if this counsel or this
work be of men it will come to nought, but if it
be of God ye cannot overthrow it!"
	Should this work prove to be of men, the
world—"the Christian world"—would far better
have shown their Christian forbearance, by "let-
ting it alone" until it should come to nought, and
thereby have saved themselves from the fearful
and awful consequences which must follow if
"haply they be found to be fighting against God."
So far as our relation to our husbands is con-
cerned, it is not only a condition of choice, but of
sacred duty.
	We have entered into these sacred relations re-
ligiously, and not without the most overwhelming
conviction and certainty of the sacredness thereof,
incurring responsibilities which are of a binding
and eternal nature.
	These relations have been formed, in all cases
before God innocently, and in thousands of cases
as innocently before the country, and these obliga-
tions have occurred as innocently, and what are
we to do about it? Should we shrink and cower
before the unjust, merciless, vindictive foe, and

[Column 2]
surrender all that we hold dear and sacred on
earth and in heaven, and become craven cowardly
backsliders, forfeiting all claim to honest woman-
hood and the hope of heavenly recognition in
time and throughout eternity?
	Who can contemplate such a course without
feeling a shudder of horror thrill their soul! Or
shall we calmly trust in God and stand by our
convictions, our husbands, and our children, let
come what may, and maintain our homes, made
doubly sacred by the eternal covenants of the
Gospel to the last? We cannot afford to do
otherwise, we have too much at stake and our
husbands having even more to lose than we have
personally, must stand true, whether in bonds, or
prison, or life or death. I am,
			Yours for the truth,
								J. L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	THE LATEST FROM EDMUNDS.

THE MOST OUTRAGEOUS ANTI-"MORMON" BILL
	YET PRESENTED BEFORE CONGRESS.

	In the Senate of the United States, Decem-
ber 8th, 1885, Mr. Edmunds introduced the
following bill (S. 10), which was read twice
and referred to the Committee on Judiciary:

				A BILL

To amend an act entitled "An act to amend
	section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of
	the Revised Statutes of the United States,
	in reference to bigamy, and for other pur-
	poses," approved March twenty-second, eigh-
	teen hundred and eighty-two.

	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Re-
presentatives of the United States of America in
Congress Assembled, That in any proceeding and
examination before a grand jury, a judge,
justice or a United States commissioner, or a
court, in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy,
or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of
the United States, the lawful husband or wife
of the person accused shall be a competent
witness, and may be called and may be com-
pelled to testify in such proceeding, examina-
tion or prosecution without the consent of the
husband or wife, as the case may be; but such
witness shall not be permitted to testify as to
any confidential statement or communication
made by either husband or wife to each other
during the existence of the marriage rela-
tion.
	SEC. 2. That in any prosecution for bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any
statute of the United States, whether before a
United States commissioner, justice, judge, a
grand jury, or any court, an attachment for
any witness may be issued by the court, judge,
or commissioner, without previons subpoena,
compelling the immediate attendance of such
witness when it shall appear to the commis-
sioner, justice, judge, or court, as the case may
be, that there is reasonable ground to believe
that such witness will unlawfully fail to obey
a subpoena issued and served in the usual
course in such cases; and in such case the usual
witness fees shall be paid to such witnesses so
attached; Provided, That no person shall be
held in custody under any attachment issued
as provided by this section for a longer time
than ten days; and the person attached may at
any time secure his or her discharge from cus-
tody by executing a recognizance, with suffi-
cient sureties conditioned for the appearance of
such person at the proper time as a witness in
the cause or proceeding wherein the attachment
may be issued.
	SEC. 3. That any prosecution under any
statute of the United States for bigamy, poly-
gamy or unlawful cohabitation may be com-
menced at any time within five years next
after the commission of the offense; but this

[Column 2]
provision shall not be construed to apply to
any offense already barred by any existing
statute of limitations.
	SEC. 4. That every ceremony of marriage,
or in the nature of a marriage ceremony, of
any kind, in any of the Territories of the
United States, whether either or both or more
of the parties to such ceremony be lawfully
competent to be the subjects of such marriage
or ceremony or not, shall be certified in writ-
ing by a certificate stating the fact and nature
of such ceremony, the full names of each of
the parties concerned, and the full name of
every officer, priest or person, by whatever style
or designation called or known, in any way
taking part in the performance of such cere-
mony, which certificate shall be drawn up and
signed by the parties to such ceremony, and
by every officer, priest and person taking part
in the performance of such ceremony, and
shall be by the officer, priest or other person
solemnizing such marriage or ceremony, filed
in the office of the probate court, or, if there
be none, in the office of the court having pro-
bate powers in the county or district in which
such ceremony shall take place, for record, and
shall be immediately recorded. Such certifi-
cate shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
required by this act to be stated therein, in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, in which the
matter shall be drawn in question. Any per-
son who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misde-
meanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not more than one thou-
sand dollars, or by imprisonment not longer
than two years, or by both said punishments, in
the discretion of the court.
	SEC. 5. That every certificate, record, and
entry of any kind concerning any ceremony of
marriage, or in the nature of a marriage cere-
mony of any kind, made or kept by an officer,
clergyman, priest, or person performing civil
or ecclesiastical functions, whether lawful or
not, in any Territory of the United States, and
any record thereof in any office or place, shall
be subject to inspection at all reasonable times
by any judge, magistrate, or officer of justice
appointed under the authority of the United
States, and shall, on request, be produced and
shown to such judge, magistrate, or officer by
any person in whose possession or control the
same may be. Every person who shall violate
the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on convic-
tion thereof, be punished by a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment
not longer than two years, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
And it shall be lawful for any United States
commissioner, justice, judge, or court before
whom any proceedings shall be pending in
which such certificate, record, or entry may be
material, by proper warrant, to cause such cer-
tificate, record, or entry, and the book, docu-
ment, or paper containing the same, to be taken
and brought before him or it for the purposes
of such proceeding.
	SEC. 6. That nothing in this act shall be
held to prevent the proof of marriages, whether
lawful or unlawful, by any evidence now legal-
ly admissible for that purpose.
	SEC. 7. That it shall not be lawful for any
female to vote at any election hereafter held in
the Territory of Utah for any public purpose
whatever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect in any manner what-
ever; and any and every act of the Governor
and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah providing for or allowing the registration
or voting by females is hereby annulled.
	SEC. 8. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah which pro-
vide for numbering or identifying the votes of
the electors at any election in said Territory
are hereby disapproved and annulled; but the


[Column 1]

foregoing provision shall not preclude the law-
ful registration of votes, or any other provis-
ions for securing fair elections which do not
involve the disclosure of the candidates for
whom any particular elector shall have
voted.
	SEC. 9. That the laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah
conferring jurisdiction upon probate courts, or
the judges thereof, or any of them in said
Territory, other than in respect of the estates
of deceased persons, and in respect of the
gaurdianship of the persons and property of
infants, and in respect of the persons and
property of persons not of sound mind, are
hereby disapproved and annulled; and no pro-
bate court or judge of probate shall exercise
any jurisdiction other than in respect of the
matters aforesaid; and every such jurisdiction
so by force of this act withdrawn from the
said probate courts or judges shall be had and
exercised by the district courts of said Terri-
tory, respectively.
	SEC. 10. That the laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah
which provide for or recognize the capacity of
illegitimate children to inherit or to be entitled
to any distributive share in the estate of the
father of such illegitimate child are hereby
disapproved and annulled; and no illegitimate
child shall hereafter be entitled to inherit from
his or her father or to receive any distributive
share in the estate of his or her father: Pro-
vided, That this section shall not apply to any
illegitimate child born previous to the passage
of this act.
	SEC. 11. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah which pro-
vide that prosecution for adultery can only be
commenced on the complaint of the husband
or wife are hereby disapproved and annulled;
and all prosecutions for adultery may be insti-
tuted in the same way that prosecutions for
other crimes are.
	SEC. 12. That the acts of the Legislative
Assembly of Utah incorporating, continuing
or providing for the corporation known as the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and the ordinance of the so-called General As-
sembly of the State of Deseret incorporating
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, so far as the same may now have legal
force and validity, are hereby disapproved and
annulled, so far as the same may preclude the
appointment by the United States of certain
trustees of said corporation as is hereinafter
provided. The President of the United States,
by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, shall appoint fourteen trustees of the
said corporation, who shall have and exercise
all the powers and functions of trustees and
assistant trustees provided for in the laws
creating, amending, or continuing the said
corporation, which trustees so appointed shall
hold their respective offices for the term of two
years; and the trustees of said corporation shall
annually or oftener make a full report to the
Secretary of the Interior embracing all the
property, business affairs, and operations of the
said corporation; and the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah shall not have power
to change the laws respecting said corporation
without the approval of Congress. Said trustees
shall each give bond, payable to the United
States, with good and sufficient security, for
the faithful discharge of the duties incumbent
upon him as trustee, in such sum as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
	SEC 13. That it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to in-
stitute and prosecute proceedings to forfeit and
escheat to the United States the property of
corporations obtained or held in violation of
section three of the act of Congress approved
the first day of July, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, entitled "An act to punish and pre-

[Column 2]

vent the practice of polygamy in the Terri-
tories of the United States and other places,
and disapproving and annulling certain acts
of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah," or in violation of section eighteen
hundred and ninety of the Revised Statutes
of the United States; and all such property so
forfeited and escheated to the United States
shall be disposed of by the Secretary of the
Inforior, and the proceeds thereof applied to
the use and benefit of the common schools in
the Territory in which such property may be:
Provided, That no building shall be forfeited
which is held and occupied exclusively for
purposes of religious worship.
	SEC. 14. That in any proceeding for the
enforcement of the provisions of law against
corporations or associations acquiring or hold-
ing property in any Territory of the United
States in excess of the amount limited by
law, the court before which such proceeding
may be instituted shall have power in a sum-
mary way to compel the production of all
books, records, papers and documents of or
belonging to any trustee or person holding or
controlling or managing property in which
such corporation may have any right, title or
interest whatever.
	SEC. 15. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, or of the
so-called government of the State of Deseret,
creating, organizing, amending, or continuing
the corporation or association called the Per-
petual Emigrating Fund Company are hereby
disapproved and annulled; and it shall not be
lawful for the Legislative Assembly of the
Territory of Utah to create, organize, or in
any manner recognize any corporation or as-
sociation for the purpose of or operating to
accomplish the bringing of persons into the
said Territory for any purpose whatsoever.
	SEC. 16. That it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to
cause such proceedings to be taken in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, as
shall be proper to dissolve the said corporation,
and pay the debts and to dispose of the pro-
perty and assets thereof according to law.
Said property and assets, in excess of the
debts and the amount of any lawful claims
established by the court against the same. shall
escheat to the United States, and shall be
taken, invested, and disposed of by the Secre-
tary of the Interior, under the direction of
the President of the United States, for the
benefit of common schools in said Territory.
	SEC. 17. That the existing election districts
and apportionments of representation concern-
ing the members of the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah, are hereby abolished;
and it shall be the duty of the Governor, Ter-
ritorial Secretary, and the United States
Judges, in said Territory, forthwith to redis-
trict said Territory, and apportion representa-
tion in the same in such manner as to provide,
as nearly as may be, for an equal representa-
tion of the people (excepting Indians not
taxed), being citizens of the United States,
according to numbers, in said Legislative
Assembly, and to the number of members of
the Council and House of Representatives,
respectively, as now established by law; and a
record of the establishment of such new dis-
tricts, and the apportionment of representa-
tion thereto, shall be made in the office of the
Secretary of said Territory, and such estab-
lishment and representation shall continue un-
til Congress shall otherwise provide; and no
persons other than citizens of the United
States otherwise qualified, shall be entitled to
vote at any election in said Territory.
	SEC. 18. That the provisions of section nine
of said act approved March twenty-second,
eighteen hundred and eighty-two, in regard
to registration of voters, and the conduct of
elections, and the powers and duties of the

[Column 3]

board therein mentioned, shall continue and
remain operative until the provision and laws
therein referred to, to be made and enacted
by the Legislative Assembly of said Territory
of Utah, shall have been made and enacted
by said Assembly, and shall have been ap-
pointed by Congress.
	SEC. 19. That whoever commits adultery
shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not exceeding three years; and
when the act is committed between a married
woman and a man who is unmarried, both
parties to such act shall be deemed guilty of
adultery; and when such act is committed be-
tween a married man and a woman who is un-
married, the man shall be deemed guilty of
adultery.
	SEC. 20. That if any unmarried man or
woman commits fornication, each of them
shall be punished by imprisonment not ex-
ceeding six months, or by fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars.
	SEC. 21. That commissioners appointed by the
supreme court and district courts in the Terri-
tory of Utah shall possess and may exercise
all the powers and jurisdiction that are or may
be possessed or exercised by justices of the
peace in said Territory under the laws thereof,
and the same powers conferred by law on com-
missioners appointed by circuit courts of the
United States.
	SEC. 22. That the marshal of said Terri-
tory of Utah, and his deputies, shall possess
and may exercise all the powers in executing
the laws of the United States possessed and
exercised by sheriffs and their deputies as
peace officers; and each of them shall cause
all offenders against the law, in his view, to
enter into cognizance to keep the peace and
to appear at the next term of the court hav-
ing jurisdiction of the case, and to commit to
jail in case of failure to give such recognizance.
They shall quell and suppress assaults and
batteries, riots, routs, affrays, and insurrect-
tions, and shall apprehend and commit to jail
all felons.
	SEC. 23. That the office of Territorial su-
perintendent of district schools created by the
laws of Utah is hereby declared vacant; and
it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court of
said Territory to appoint a Territorial superin-
tendent of district schools, and who shall pos-
sess and exercise all the powers and duties
imposed by the laws of said Territory upon
the Territorial superintendent of district
schools, and shall receive the same salary and
compensation, which shall be paid out of the
treasury of said Territory; and the laws of
the Territory of Utah providing for the
method of election and appointment of such
Territorial superintendent of district schools
are hereby suspended until the further action
of Congress shall be had in respect thereto.
The said superintendent shall have power to
prohibit the use in any district school of any
book of a sectarian character or otherwise un-
suitable. Said superintendent shall collect
and classify statistics and other information
respecting the district schools in said Terri-
tory, showing their progress, the whole num-
ber of children of school age, the number who
attend school in each year in the respective
counties and average length of time of their
attendance, the number of teachers who are
Mormons, the number who are so-called Gen-
tiles, the number of children of Mormon pa-
rents and the number of children of so-called
Gentile parents, and their respective average
attendance at school. All of which statistics
and information shall be annually reported to
Congress, through the Governor of said Ter-
ritory and the Department of the Interior.
	SEC. 24. (a) A widow shall be endowed of
the third part of all the lands whereof her
husband was seized of an estate of inheritance
at any time during the marriage.


(b) The widow of any alien who at the time
of his death shall be entitled by law to hold
any real estate if she be an inhabitant of the
Territory at the time of such death, shall be
entitled to dower of such estate in the same
manner as if such alien had been a native
citizen.
	(c) If a husband seized of an estate of inherit-
ance in lands exchanges them for other lands,
his widow shall not have dower of both, but
shall make her election to be endowed of the
lands given or of those taken in exchange;
and if such election be not evinced by the
commencement of procedings to recover her
dower of the lands given in exchange within
one year after the death of her husband, she
shall be deemed to have elected to take her
dower of the lands received in exchange.
	(d) when a person seized of an estate of in-
heritance in lands shall have executed a mort-
gage on such estate before marriage, his widow
shall nevertheless be entitled to dower out of
the lands mortgaged as against every person
except the mortgagee and those claiming under
him.
	(e) Where a husband shall purchase lands
during coverture, and shall at the same time
mortgage his estate in such lands to secure the
payment of the purchase-money, his widow
shall not be entitled to dower out of such lands,
as against the mortgagee or those claiming un-
der him, although she shall not have united in
such mortgage; but she shall be entitled to her
dower as against all other persons.
	(f) Where in such case the mortgagee, or
those claiming under him, shall, after the
death of the husband of such widow, cause the
land mortgaged to be sold, either under a
power of sale contained in the mortgage or
by virtue of the decree of a court of equity,
and if any surplus shall remain after payment
of the moneys due on such mortgage and the
cost and charges of the sale, such widow shall
nevertheless be entitled to the interest or in-
come of the one third-part of such surplus, for
her life, as her dower.
	(g) A widow shall not be endowed of lands
conveyed to her husband by way of mortgage
unless he acquire an absolute estate therein
during the marriage period.
	(h) In case of divorce dissolving the mar-
riage contract for the misconduct of the wife,
she shall not be endowed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		SLATERVILLE.

	The Slaterville Relief Society was re-organ-
ized Nov. 27th, 1885. There were present, the
Bishop and his Counselors, Apostle F. D.
Richards, Sister Richards, Sister Brown, Presi-
dent and Counselors of Weber Stake; also the
Relief Society of the ward. The former
president, Sister Mary Field, having resigned
on account of her great age, the following
officers were appointed: Sister Mary Karney,
President; Mary Jane Allred and Helen Perry,
Counselors; Isabella J. Allred, Secretary;
Charlotte Bartholomew, Assistant Secretary;
Hannah Dasney, Treasurer.
		Respectfully your sisters,
				M. A. KARNEY, Prest.,
				I. J. ALLRED, Sec.

			DAVIS STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
Davis Stake was held at Farmington, Jan. 8th,
1886, Sister Mary Clark presiding. Prests. Wm.
R. Smith and Anson Call met with us for the
purpose of re-organizing, or rather appointing
a president, as our former president had been
called to labor in another capacity. Sister
Susan Grant was chosen, a vote was taken, and
being unanimously sustained, she was set apart


as president of the Relief Society of Davis.
Stake.
	Sister Presendia Kimball and Doctor Ellen
B. Ferguson were present. They gave us some
very good instructions, and urged the mothers
to look well to their children; be careful to
implant the principles of truth and virtue in
their young minds.
	We had a splendid meeting, a good spirit
prevailed, and all seemed to manifest a lively
interest in the cause.
			RHODA HINMAN, Secretary.

			ST. GEORGE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—At the quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of the St. George Stake,
held in the Lyceum on the 12th ult., some
change was made in the presiding officers.
Our much esteemed president, Sister Minerva
W. Snow, having found it necessary to relin-
quish that position, sent in her resignation,
which was, with reluctance, accepted, and
a heartfelt and unanimous vote of thanks was
returned, for her kind and unremitting
labors.
	Sister Anna L. Ivins was then invited to
fill the office, which she accepted, and was sus-
tained by unanimous vote with Sister Mary B.
Eyring as first, and Sister Ann C. Woodbury
as second Counselor. The Society has been
actively engaged of late in furnishing carpet
for the St. George Temple, donating quilts
etc., etc.
			Respectfully,
		M. A. G. BAKER, Cor. Secretary.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Graham Bread.—Two cupfuls of Graham flour, two
cupfuls of Indian meal, two cupfuls of sweet milk, one
cupful of sour milk, one cupful of molasses, one teaspoon-
ful of soda, and a little salt; steam the bread for two hours,
and then dry it for a few minutes in a hot oven.

	Fried Cakes.—One pint of buttermilk, one egg, half a
teaspoonful of salt, eight teaspoonfuls of shortening, one
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a small quantity of water;
use nutmeg and cinnamon for seasoning. Add sufficient
flour to roll the batter, and fry it in hot lard. This makes
one large panful of the cakes.

	Sponge Cake.—Beat three eggs for one minute; add one
heaping cupful of white sugar, beat it with the eggs for five
minutes; a cupful of flour, and beat it one minute; half a
cupful of cold water, stirring it well. Then add another
cupful of flour containing two teaspoonfuls of baking
powder, and heat the mixture for one minute. Use salt
and flavoring to taste. Bake the cake in a slow oven.

	Fried Chicken.—Wash your chickens, cut them into
pieces, and season them with pepper and salt. Have in a
pan some hot butter and lard, mixed; dust some flour over
each of the pieces, and fry them slowly until they become
a bright brown on both sides; take them up, put a little
water in the pan, add some butter rolled in flour to thicken
the gravy, and more pepper and salt, if required. Young
spring chickens are suitable only for frying.


[Column 1]
[All text centered]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods 
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[icon of a pointing hand] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[pointing hand icon] Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing hand icon] Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah. 
[Column to the left of the drawing]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
[Column to the right of drawing]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years. 
[Continue Column 2 beneath the drawing]
Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing hand icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1886.	NO. 18.


[Column 1]
	ADDRESSED TO A FRIEND OF MY
				YOUTH.

Once more, dearest friend, I sit down to address you,
And, it being your birthday, desire to bless you;
Such, for years I've attempted in writing to you—
Alas! I'm so distant, 'tis all I can do;
Yes, years, many years have rolled steadily on
Since first I sang to you a natal-day song:
In them my whole heart has been bared before thee,
And they tell—yes, in each—I've presented the key!
If you have not unlocked and explored them, why then,
You've missed it, my friend, for on earth ne'er again
Shall I ever unfold in so great a degree
The soul which my Father—God—gave unto me!
And why I made you the receptacle—you, dear—
I should need a bright angel to make it all clear;
Yes, e'en to myself—I myself need a key
To clear the grand mystery—even to me!
But in grand or minute it is ever my way
To acknowledge the hand of the Lord, and His sway,
For if even the fall of a sparrow's recorded,
Those who bear His own image are lovingly hoarded,
And what we note as trifles, His judgment so wise
May behold as a germ, that He cannot despise;
He has made each an agent to map out the life
From out the material so rich and so rife,
By which we're surrounded, and given a mind,
A heart and a brain, that by these we may find
Out the good that is for us—'tis something to know
What will make for us happiness, make for us woe,
And make for us joy and will make for us love;
Such knowledge will lift us all trifles above,
And if we as infants repose in His hands,
Obeying His laws and His loving commands,
He will turn, yes, and overturn all in our favor,
And even to bitters will give a sweet savor,
And give us a power, an angelic art,
That we, as diplomatists, act well the part
That makes life a rich and a heavenly boon,
That none will desire to end very soon!

It's not in me to boast, or desire to seem
A something I am not, or ever have been;
I just want to assure you my Father has given
Me knowledge and tact, just to make my own heaven,
And should you ask why He has favored me so,
Bestowing the happiness, soft'ning the woe?
'Tis by prayer—yes, the voice of my soul has been prayer,
Entreating His guidance, imploring His care.
As "clay in the hands of the potter"—so I
In the hands of my God have desired to lie!
Such is but a synopsis, a brief sketch indeed
Of how I've obtained, where I wished to succeed,
Did love of some beings, I felt, if possessed,
Would add to my happiness, make me more blest,
I at once set to work, as the spirit dictated,
To draw to myself all that seemed to me mated;
Yes, mated, which is, that their souls seemed to be
United to mine by a sweet unity,
Magnetic, and charming, encircling my soul,
By casting around me a healthful control;
In such way my spirit did magnetize thine,
Or was it your spirit that magnetized mine?
See! here is a problem, and who shall resolve it,
And a question still greater is, who can dissolve it?
'Tis strong as the mountains and firm as the hills,
'Tis sparkling and pure as our own mountain rills,
Nought of earth intermingles—'tis spirit indeed,
And blended with distance, from trammels is freed;
We think, speak and write with the freedom of heaven,
Which smiles and sees nothing that need be forgiven;
'Tis a compact that's not often found upon earth,
It had from the brightest of feelings its birth;
It has had a sweet life—do you ask when 'twill die?
When we in the tomb shall all peacefully lie!
And the spirit released shall then joyfully soar
To the mansions of bliss, that it dwelt in of yore,
With our Father and God, and with Jesus, His Son,
Our own elder brother, ere earth-life begun;

[Column 2]
On earth, our Redeemer, our Savior and Friend,
There united united in brotherhood, never to end!
The redeemed of all nations, there gathered in one,
Our warfare all ended, our heaven begun!

Amid all this bliss—this ecstatic bliss—
Will the spirits, all ransom'd, not look back to this—
For a moment look back to the loved ones still here,
Remembering the all that on earth it held dear?
The love and the friendship that brighten'd its way;
And feel it must gather up all that it may,
Even all that here nurtured the heart and the brain
From that spirit can never be parted again,
All such is immortal, all that was so on earth
Is transplanted again to a heavenly birth;
All, all we enjoy here of heavenly life
We shall surely transmit where all beauty is rife,
And soul linked to soul by congenial ties
On this earth, shall meet and unite in the skies;
There's a spirit that whispers and tells unto me
In the realms of the blessed—yes, so it will be,
The beings that helped to make earth unto me
A palpable paradise, surely shall be
In the same planet-world where my spirit will rest,
Unitedly there will our spirits be blest!

I need not go on—perhaps enough has been said,
And you'll draw the inference when you have read;
The best feelings that dwell in the heart of a friend
Are those which I now in all faithfulness send,
By the aid of my paper, and also my pen,
And this day many years may you witness again.
Preserve, above all things, the blessing of health—
To those who possess it, 'tis coffers of wealth;
May you attain all I desire for thee,
Then happy, contented and blest you will be;
Your old and true friend writes the song I now sing,
Accept it in love, from yours—HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
		NO MIDDLE COURSE.

	The events of the past several months, taken
with many others in the history of the human
race, should teach the Latter-day Saints, such
as have not learned the lesson already, that
there is no safe middle course between right
and wrong. The disastrous failures of those
who have sought, in the present crisis, to
make a bridge of their souls over a chasm too
broad to be covered, except by a rupture and
dismemberment of principle, should give pause
to all who may contemplate emulating their
unsuccessful examples.
	These failures, much as the causes leading to
them are to be deplored, should occasion no
surprise. They serve only to emphasize a
truth and newly illustrate a principle as old
as time and as immutable as the Rock of Ages.
What is there in the Gospel, the great crite-
rion of truth, which teaches a man that he
can serve simultaneously two masters; that he
can be for God and against Him at the same
time; that he can make peace with the evil one
and accede to terms, however speciously worded,
that will satisfy and call forth the plaudits of
his minions, and still remain the friend of God
and an uncompromising foe of unrighteousness?
	Strange, indeed, that some calling them-
selves Latter-day Saints—God grant that their
numbers are few!—with the teachings of the
past before their eyes, and the Holy Spirit
presumably in their hearts, can not see a pro-
position so plain as the one declaring that all
who are not for the Lord are against Him; or
seeing it, cannot convince themselves that God,
in saying this, meant exactly what He said, and
that anything more or less cometh of evil. The
trained equestrian knows that he cannot suc-
cessfully ride at the same time two horses

[Column 2]
moving in opposite directions. But, if he
attempted it, the result would be no more dis-
astrous in a physical way, than morally for a
Latter-day Saint to try to plant himself square-
ly upon both sides of a question involving
honor and obedience to a law of God and a 
law of man directly opposed to it, enacted for
the sole purpose of its destruction.
	It is idle to argue the wisdom or righteous
policy of such a course. When oil and water
can mix, without one or both of them losing
their original properties, it will be time enough
to talk about a "Mormon" being a non-"Mor-
mon" even in part; but not before. Good
and evil, heaven and hell, are not synonymous
terms, neither is it possible to be altogether
right and only a little in the wrong at the
same time. In one sense the chasm between
the two is so broad that no bridge can span it;
in another, the division line is a hair so fine
that to step over it from the right but one
inch, is to be just one inch in the wrong.
	What of Daniel the Prophet, when forbid-
den by a law almost as cruel as the Edmunds
law, to pray to the God of his salvation?
Could he have "come within the law" and
still have continued to supplicate Jehovah?
	Could the Hebrew children have obeyed the
tyrannical edict of Nebuchadnezzar and
bowed themselves down before the golden
image which he had set up, and still preserved
themselves free in the sight of heaven from
idolatry?
	Could our blessed Redeemer, the Godlike
hero of Gethsemane and Calvary, because of
the ignominious fate before Him and the ex-
ceeding sorrow of His refined and sensitive
soul in contemplating it—could He have
receded with honor from His position, recanted
what He had spoken by the power of the Holy
Ghost, and, to save His life, made an agreement
with Pilate and the Jews that He would no
longer proclaim Himself the Son of God, or
teach the pure principles, despised though
they were by the world, which He came to
preach, practice and lay down His life for?
	Could the prophets, the reformers, the pa-
triots—those who spilt their blood like water
rather than relinquish one jot or tittle of their
sacred convictions, have given way at the
dicta of tyrants and bigots, and still kept
their honor and integrity inviolate? And if
they had given way, would we now enjoy the
blessings which their valor bequeathed, and
would their names have come down to us
haloed with a glory which time cannot dim or
the breath of calumny extinguish?
	I have in mind the example of one of these
heroes, brought face to face with the prospect,
not of fine and imprisonment, but death, for
the sake of his religious convictions. Martin
Luther at the Diet of Worms! When this
brave and resolute soul was asked to recant
what he believed was Bible truth, and sue for
pardon at the feet of the pope and the powers
ecclesiastical and militant of the Catholic
world; standing alone in the midst of his ene-
mies; surrounded by frowning faces and blood-
thirsty hearts, not knowing that he would be
permitted to issue thence alive, did he yield one
inch of the ground he had taken? Did he
cower or crawl before emperor, priest or
noble, and to save his life make a bargain
with the powers of evil and emissaries of
Satan! No! Erect before the imperial tribunal,
pale of face but undismayed at heart, sus-
tained by the power of God and the rectitude


of his own conscience, he exclaimed, with his
hand across the open Bible whose teachings
he was asked to renounce: "Until convinced
by reason and scripture, HERE I STAND! I CAN-
NOT DO OTHERWISE; GOD HELP ME!"
	These are the stalwarts of history; the bea-
con lights along the shores of Time. They
are examples which God has given in the past
for the emulation of the present and the future.
If any are in doubt, and have not the Holy
Spirit to teach them in what direction their
duty lies, let them turn to these human guid-
ing stars for inspiration. The light shed by
such examples, with the great and infallible
criterion of God's Spirit, which burns un-
ceasingly in the heart of every true and faith-
ful Saint, will illumine duty's pathway through-
out the darkest night and cause it to shine
brighter and brighter unto the perfect day.
						O. F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
			WINTER QUARTERS.

		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	Some of the members of my father's family
had previously left for the Great Salt Lake,
namely, James Smithies and family, Peter
Hanson, Mary Ellen Kimball, and Mary
Forsgreen.
	My uncle, Wm. Murray, had gone with his wife
and daughter and little son—their eldest son
having gone with the pioneers—into Missouri
to work to obtain an outfit for their journey
the next spring. But all were soon prostrated
by disease, and Uncle William's sad forebod-
ings expressed before leaving his beloved sis-
ter, were soon realized. He fell a victim
to disease brought on by the severe hardship
and privations to which he and hundreds of
others had been subjected, withont even the
necessities of life to sustain them.
	His family was lying sick unto death
in the State of Missouri, and this, added to the
already heavy cares that were resting upon
my mother's shoulders, almost overcame her.
It was also a heavy blow to his eldest daughter,
who was living with mother. But though they
felt it a sore bereavement their greatest solace
was the thought that he had obeyed the Gos-
pel, and had never flinched from his duty,
but had died in the harness.
	For a testimony to those who may doubt my
statements I will present a few lines that were
written by my mother July 29, 1847, after
seeking a retired place to pour out her soul in
prayer to Him on whom she leaned for
strength and wisdom, and that light which
drives away the unwelcome mists of darkness
and brings sweet rest to the weary soul.

	"My soul doth magnify the Lord,
	And praise Him for His holy word,
	For He hath blessed me from above,
	And filled my soul with light and love;
	My body, too, He hath renewed,
	My path with blessings He hath strewed.

	My Lord, go with me through this day,
	And may I never cease to pray
	For wisdom, faith and righteousness,
	And may I never ask amiss."

	I have barely touched upon the scenes that
came under my notice during the absence of
the pioneers, but am able to testify to the en-
joyment of many happy seasons after the
mighty struggle with the destroyer was over,
and we were again in the enjoyment of health,
a blessing that none could appreciate more
fully than myself. Some of the little circle
that met often one with another to obtain that
solace which the comfortor alone could give,
have passed on to another stage, leaving one

[Column 2]
here and another there to testify to the out-
pourings of the Holy Spirit that sustained and
cheered them during those trying scenes.
	Two are still remaining in the family of
the late brother John Pack—Sisters Julia
and Ruth, who will bear witness to these things,
and that there were no repinings such as we
read were indulged in by the children of
Israel. We could say with one accord as did
the prophet Job, though reduced in worldly
circumstances or reproached and cut off be-
cause of our seeming wickedness, yet in the
midst of all our sore calamities we were buoyed
up with a holy hope, and were confident of a
glorious reward from Him who is the searcher
of all hearts and has promised that the meek
shall inherit the earth.
	The unbeliever may scoff but we know that
it was the Holy Spirit—the Comforter, and
that faith born of it, that sustained and buoyed
up the drooping spirits and lightened the
cares and toils of the weary under the
varied and trying circumstances that were
calculated to dishearten any but Lattter-day
Saints, who possessed that living faith that en-
abled the soul to look forward to a glorious
future, trusting to that Mighty One whose
power had preserved and led them thus far
and had delivered them "out of the seventh
trouble."
	It is a sad thing to record the apostasy of
any who were once so highly favored as to re-
ceive the great spiritual manifestations which
were enjoyed by Frances Swan and Sarah
Lawrence. Both were sealed to my father
over the holy altar in the Temple at Nauvoo.
The latter named had been the wife of the
Prophet Joseph, his first wife, Emma, having
given her and her sister to him as his wives
for time and all eternity. Sarah made choice
of my father to stand as proxy for Joseph
in this life. But she allowed a jealous nature
to have full sway. She and I became warm
friends after she entered my father's family,
and even after she became disaffected and
thought to better her condition by marrying
another we were still friends and she met
nothing but kindness from father and his
family, he with mother, and other members of
his family went by invitation to spend an
afternoon at her house, after she was married
to her last husband.
	But the man she married had proven
truant to one wife and her little ones, leaving
them to struggle for existence in this
valley through the hardest times experienced
here. And not until they had found friends
to succor and help to keep the wolf from their
door, did he make his appearance, and
then he had very little of the Gospel though
he, at first, professed to be a "Mormon." He
had come from the gold mines of California
where had had made what was then considered
quite a fortune. It was not long before he
proved the truth of my father's predictions as
he denied the faith and returned to California,
taking Sarah with him. But it seems she
failed to find happiness even in monogamy, as
he turned out a dissipated character, and it
was only a few years before she was divorced
from him. She had lost every spark of the
Gospel, which had once been her guiding star,
and was finally left to herself. She became so
wicked that when paying her last visit to Salt
Lake she denied emphatically ever being con-
nected to Joseph or to my father, and was very
insulting to those who dared to dispute her
word. She abused her brother Henry's second
wife most shamefully, when meeting her in his
store, laying to her the most humiliating and
abusive accusations, which proved her to be a
most vicious and heartless woman. Her
brother, Henry Lawrence, was so annoyed by
her unprincipled course, that he was among
the most thankful when she left here and re-
turned to California, where she soon died.


THE UTAH WOMEN.

	Every suffragist in the country is urged to
write at once to every member of Congress
from his or her State, and ask him to use his
utmost influence to defeat in the House of
Representatives the shameful bill passed by
the Senate, proposing to violate freedom, jus-
tice, and vested rights, by robbing the women
of Utah of that suffrage which is theirs by
long-settled law and practice.
	This bill is peculiarly outrageous. Pro-
fessedly aimed at Mormonism, it allows Mor-
mon men to vote; and disfranchises both Gen-
tile and Mormon women. It thus inflicts an
odious penalty on thousands of citizens who
have not been convicted of any crime, and
violates vested rights, a violation which even
so conservative a jurist as the late Judge
Jeremiah S. Black declared illegal and intol-
erable.
	The success of this bill will strike a blow at
the rights of every woman in the land. Let
every suffragist not only write to members of
Congress, but get every one else who can be
induced to do so to write them likewise. Also
let every one write to Hon. Mr. Hill, chairman
of the Committee on Territories, House of
Representatives, Washington, D. C. This is
important.
	A bill with the same purpose has several
times passed the Senate, but we have always,
by vigilance, succeeded in defeating it in the
House. Senator Frelinghuysen at one time
carried a similar bill through the Senate. We
held a meeting at his home (Newark, N. J.),
and got his constituents to pass a resolution
requesting him to change his course. This
disturbed him so much that he felt obliged to
make a personal explanation in the Senate,
and afterward acted very differently. The
woman suffrage movement is stronger now
than then; let the Representatives,
especially Chairman Hill, feel its power.
	Vermont suffragists should set to work at
once to secure the nomination and election to
the Legislature, throughout the state, of men
who will vote against the re-election of Sena-
tor Edmunds. He has been always the bitter
foe of the rights of women. Let Vermont
women and their friends see to it that he is
permanently retired.
	The undersigned, who took an active part
in securing woman suffrage in Utah, and has
watched over it specially ever since, makes
these suggestions most earnestly as the fruit of
experience.
				HAMILTON WILLCOX.
	Woman's Journal, Jan. 16.


Mrs. Julia Ward Howe delivered an excel-
lent address before the Brooklyn Woman
Suffrage Association at their last meeting.
The rooms were crowded.

	Mrs. Chute, of Washington Territory, for-
merly an accomplished teacher in Lafayette,
Ind., goes thirty-five miles to vote. She is
postmistress and notary public, owns two
claims and works them, pleads law-suits, has
large herds of sheep and cattle, is an expert
florist, and in addition finds time to read the
magazines and the Woman's Journal.

	Prof. Susan M. Fry, who has the department
of Belles Lettres at the Bloomington (Ill.)
University (seven hundred students), is the
senior professor in rank, and thus becomes act-
ing President in the absence of Dr. Adams.
At such times she presides over the large
Faculty of which she is the only lady member,
and leads in her turn, at morning prayers, all
this being taken as a matter of course by the
gentlemen of that progressive western col-
lege. Mrs. Fry's professorship has been en-
dowed with $27,000 by Charles Cramp and
wife, wealthy farmers of Macon, Ill.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY LETTER.

I read it, my letter, my letter, as I sate in my rocky nest;
The waves at my feet were crooning, the wind blew soft
	from the west;
The sunshine on the tangle-beds was blazing fiercely
	down,
And as they wavered to and fro, they glowed to golden
	brown,
I heard the cry of the curlews blend with the breaker's
	roar,
I took from my breast my letter, and read it yet once more.

I read it, my letter, my letter, as I loitered by the sea,
And, as I read, my fancy was flying fast and free,
Away from the sunny seaboard, away from the purple
	down;
I saw the smoky, sullen streets, I saw the busy town,
I saw the desk with its dusty load, I saw the dreary room,
And I saw the dark-blue eyes I knew, outshining in the
	gloom.

I read it, my letter, my letter, and I saw illumine it,
The graceful phrase, the graphic touch, the flash of ready
	wit,
The tender lingering o'er the words, that even as he
	wrote,
Seemed as though love hovered over them, their truth and
	depth to note;
The sweet old words whose iterance, to those that yearn to
	hear,
But deepens ever down and down, and deepening grows
	more dear.

I read it, my letter, my letter; then softly in fragments
	small
I tore the precious pages, and stooped to kiss them all;
They were safe and sure, the golden words, rewritten in
	my heart,
It were surely best, in a world of change, with their earthly
	shrines to part;
So I tore it, my letter, my letter; with a smile and with a
	a sigh,
And tossed them to the sunny sea, beneath the sunny sky.

To what I have loved so long and well, the flashing,
	dancing wave,
To the mighty arms of the great North Sea, the thing I
	prized I gave;
It should die, my letter, my letter, no common mortal
	death,
It should be rocked upon the ocean's breast, lulled by the
	ocean's breath.
Has a monarch a kinglier requiem, a chief a noblier
	shrine,
Than that I gave my letter, from that rocky rest of mine?
							All the Year Round.


[Column 1]

BEREAVEMENT.

	"There's not a joy the world can give, like that it takes
away."—BYRANT.

	Who has not echoed these words, or the
sentiment they contain, when bending over the
lost beloved one? Who has not perfectly
realized all they contain, the wailing of the
stricken heart, the desolation of their surround-
ings, the dearth of all their future life! The
vacant chair that none can ever occupy—the
star that has gone out of their hemisphere,
never to rise again in this sublunary state—
how many that read these words will endorse
them, as they strike chords responding to those
in their own heart's experience. The lines I
have quoted were written by one of the great-
est poet; they were wrung out of his heart by
a sad experience. He had seen all that were
near and dear to him, with one exception, fall
into the cold embrace of death, in a most
singular and remarkable manner, and the one
who ought to have stood by him and soothed
the lacerated heart, was too stoical, too exalted
a character to realize or appreciate a heart
pierced by the arrows of the Almighty—she
was estranged, and left him in his sorrows, and
he exclaimed, that he stood upon his hearth,
with his household gods shivered around him.
There are living sorrows far more poignant


[Column 2]

than those of death, sad and desolating as
they are, and this man's was a living sorrow,
that wound up all the rest. Death brings its
own balm with it; a living sorrow often has no
panacea, but eats as a canker into the very
seat of life, causing its very fountain to send
forth springs bitter as "the waters of Marah"
—and no Moses near to throw in the sweeten-
ing corrective. 'Tis nature's due to shed the
tears of love and sympathy over our beloved
dead, but soon let us turn and assist in alleviat-
ing the living sorrows which we can see daily
around us. Let us read history and biography,
and we will there find that even the crowned
heads and the wealthy, and such whose lot was
cast in what is termed "high life," have often
been martyrs, either publicly or in the private
sphere of life; God is decidedly no respector of
persons; if he has the least preference, it is for
the poor and the needy, the prisoner in the
Bastile, the widow and the orphan; these are
assuredly His especial care. Let us take a
character from the Bible, one whose life I have
so often read, and shed over it the tear of sym-
pathy, and there is a fine moral and great
consolation and instruction to be derived from
it; how often her pathetic ejaculation has burst
from my own heart, and issued from my own
lips—"Thou God seest me!" What a beauti-
ful, pathetic and confiding appeal were those
words of Hagar, as she stood alone in the
desert! What a volume they contain! How
brief and yet how full! Her whole soul was
presented to the Lord in those few words. They
might be elaborated in such aspirations as,
"Father, I stand here before Thee, alone in
the desert, alone, except with my young child;
we are indeed in the wilderness of the world;
man hath forsaken us, and cast us forth; we
look around over the vast expanse, but all is
desert; we are parched with its sand and its
glaring sun; we thirst, but there is no water.
The pitcher is drained of its last drop; my life
is before Thee, from its earliest days Thou
knowest I have obeyed Thy laws of marriage,
and Thou hast given me this boy; he was be-
loved by his father, but another came, and he
was supplanted, and because we felt the iron
of oppression enter our soul, and my child in
his innocence and ignorance showed out his
feelings, we are cast out, but Thou seest me;
pardon and forgive all that Thy pure eyes have
seen amiss, and hold us thine, and let us live;
Thou canst send us water even in the desert."
Something like this did those few words con-
tain, when lo! she hears a sound. She puts
her ear to the ground, and distinctly hears the
rushing of water. She pursues the sound, and
she sees, oh, ecstasy! water gushing out of a
rock that arose in the desert. She had laid her
child away that she might not see him die; she
springs to him, she bathes his parched lips, his
face, his hands; she gives him to drink, and
then she drinks herself and becomes refreshed
and invigorated. Was this all the answer to
her prayer? No; behold a bright messenger
from the courts of glory approaches her, and to map
out her future course of life, and that of her
child, who was to "become the father of a
great nation." What woman would not be con-
tent to pass through the crucible of a great
living sorrow to be so honored and sustained?
No doubt she had realized the full import of
those thrilling words, "There's not a joy the
world can give, like that it takes away," but
God is with the lowly and the forsaken, and
His angels minister unto them, for "man's ex-
tremity is God's opportunity."
	Our subject is bereavement, and we will
continue it a little farther. There are few that
have not lost some beloved ones, few that have
not watched the soul take wing, who have not
seen that thrilling look when the spirit is
hovering on the confines of its eternal home, so
entirely unspeakable, which no painter has ever
caught, all the most intensely sacred passions

[Column 3]

of the soul gathered into that one grand focus,
in that most mysterious intermediate moment
between the mortal and the immortal life,
never, never to be forgotten in its mute lan-
guage, and then succeeds a calm, a beauty be-
held nowhere else, impressed by the enfran-
chised spirit, like lightning upon the mortal
frame it had just vacated!
	The Bible speaks of "the widows of Ashue;"
may we not with truth and propriety speak in
our scripture of he widows of Utah, most of
them "widows indeed," to whom the especial
favors of heaven have been promised. Now
many are made widows, and their children
orphans by the cruel, the unjust, the wicked
judgments of wicked judges, casting their hus-
bands, by unjust verdicts, into prison. Will
not the Lord require restitution at their hands?
Are not His people as dear to Him as in days
of old? This woman just named was a plural
wife of the man named in the Bible, "the
friend of God, the father of the faithful, whose
posterity should be numerous as the stars of
heaven, and the sands upon the seashore."
Are notthe widows of Utah as dear to Him as
those in days of yore? As a widow, I confidently
answer, "yes," and I know it. He has said He
will be the husband of the widow and the
father of the orphan. Let mighty faith be
cultivated by the widows and by the orphans,
and if need be they, too, shall receive a mes-
senger from the court of heaven to comfort, to
teach, perhaps reprove the widowed daughters
of God, and His rebukes shall be sweeter far
than the kisses of the earthly. Why cannot
the women of God have faith like the women
of old? God is the same yesterday, to-day and
forever. His people have made holy coven-
ants with Him in His holy places, and have
strained every nerve to keep them. He has
promised those who ask shall receive; to those
who knock the door shall be opened
His ministering angels wait to do His bidding;
the pure and the good are their especial care.
What, then, can hinder this people from re-
ceiving all that was bestowed upon His people
of old, when His Church was first organized
upon the earth? The time has come now when
that Church can no be no more thrown down; it
may be battered and bruised, but its founda-
tion is the rock of ages, and Christ Himself
has said, "The gates of hell shall not prevail
against it! Heaven and earth may pass away,
but my words shall not pass away." "So mote
it be!"
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 9th, 1886.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss. Norton, daughter of Prof. Chas. Eliot
Norton, is one of the finest violinists of the
Boston Orchestral Club.
	Miss Elizabeth Stuart Phelps has written
"Burglars in Paradise," in the style of "The
Old Maid's Paradise."
	Let every man take care how he speaks and
writes of honest people, and not set down at a
venture the first thing that comes uppermost.
	Inquisitive people are the funnels of con-
versation; they do not take in anything for
their own use, but merely to pass it to an-
other.
	Mrs. Frances Anne Kemble atiributes her
attainment of her seventy-fifth year in full
health and vigor to her life-long persistence in
outdoor exercise, especially on horseback, in
all sorts of weather.
	Mrs. Virginia Hanson has been nominated
for re-election as State Librarian of Kentucky.
"So well has that excellent lady performed
her official duties," says the Louisville Courier-
Journal, "that her nomination and re-election
follow as a matter of course."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			   SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	FEBRUARY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM WASHINGTON.

	The National Capital is not so gay this winter,
at least so far on, as it has generally been of late
years; it is said that the Senators and Representa-
tives are not men of so much means and wealth as
those of the last Congress. But still there is
plenty of display in dress, jewelry and all that
goes to make up the lady of fashion, and balls,
parties, clubs and calls are numerous as ever, and
it would seem even more so. The extravagance
in dress is something from which one whose
thoughts tend in a higher direction must turn
away with a sort of disgust. It almost absorbs
the life of women of society, and there is no doubt
but that many deaths have resulted from the ridicu-
lous fashions and customs of this public society.
It is quite time women turned their attention to
something loftier and better than this dress-parade,
this constant drain upon the purse, and the foolish
and exacting demands of Madame Grundy.
There is, one would suppose, and indeed there
must be, something very fascinating about this
continuous whirl of excitement, that makes one
forget the duty of self-preservation and carries too
many of its votaries to an early and untimely
grave, making them victim's to its cruel demands.
One cannot help exclaiming, "To what will all
this tend in the history of the race of men and
women, and what will the offspring of the next
generation be, if indeed there be a generation
born at all of these lovers of pleasure, these devo-
tees at the shrine of fashion?" The habits of men
are perhaps more deteriorating in their tendencies
than those of women, though differing materially
in the main; tobacco smoking seems to be the
great evil that is most apparent, though there are
many vices that are said to be increasing to an
alarming extent, and those who look at these mat-
ters seriously are greatly exercised over the fearful
statistics of crime, and the secret evils that creep
into modern society and sap the very foundations
of life, as it were, unawares. But from sins such
as these may Zion long be free, and her sons and
daughters grow up simple in their habits and
moderate in their tastes, and if unsophisticated,
pure and chaste in their lives, that the race may
grow strong morally and physically, as well as
spiritually, and that the cultivation of the heart
and the higher attributes of one's nature may sur-
pass the love of dress and amusements, and that
they may never despise the mission of motherhood,
and prefer dogs and pets of various kinds to the
children given them of God, possessing immortal
souls.
	We had no intention of moralizing, but it is a
sickening sight to see women calling themselves
ma and grandma to puppies, and saying, "Your
papa" so and so, to dogs, and see the homes
desolate of the voices of little children.
	Washington is a grand old city, and one never
tires of admiring its grandeur and magnificence,
its elegant public buildings, its beautiful parks and
avenues and squares, its handsome and stupen-


[Column 2]

dous monuments, and its many statues to great
and illustrious men—all are interesting to the
general observer, and specially so to the native
born American, who delights in the glory of
his country and her many noted places of in-
terest.
	The Capitol Building itself is really the centre
of attraction to the majority; thither in crowds day
after day, the people congregate to see and hear
the great men of the nation, who assemble daily
to perform the duties of the Congress to which
they have been elected by their constituents in the
several States and Territories of the Union.
	The Capitol is acknowledged to be the finest
building in this country, and some people affirm
in all the world, but as we have not been all over
the world, we cannot answer for that assertion,
but can say truthfully it is the finest we have
seen.
	It stands on Capitol Hill, as though nature her-
self had prepared the very spot purposely for this
imposing national edifice. To give a full descrip-
tion of the building would take up too much space,
and there are other things more important to tell,
but we will say it consists of a main building, with
two extentions, one at either side, in one of which
the Senate meets, in the other the House of Re-
presentatives. In the main building is the hall
used by the Supreme Court of the United States,
what was formerly the Senate Chamber, also the
National Gallery of Statues. There are many
objects of interest, about the Capitol, and one
might go there day after day and be agreeably
entertained with pictures, statuary and the like,
but it is not always convenient or, for many rea-
sons, expedient. One sees a great many fine
looking people in and around the rooms of the
Capitol, and occasionally one hears fine oratory,
but that does not usually come every day.
	The weather has been very cold in Washington
this winter, and there has been some good sleigh-
ing and fine coasting, and the people have enjoyed
it, judging from appearances.
	No doubt our readers would like to hear about
the new President and the Lady of the White
House—his sister. With the most of the people
they do not seem to be very great favorites,neither
with Democrats, his own party, much more than
with Republicans. In New York and Boston, and
indeed in country towns in New England, he is
very freely discussed, and his administration most
severely, and, one might almost say, savagely
critciized. At a concert given at All Soul's Church,
by blind children who had been trained in Eng-
land, President Cleveland was present, and as he
sat on the next seat to where the writer was sit-
ting, on a chair in the aisle, there was a very good
opportunity to see him. He looks exactly like his
picture, except he seems to be more fleshy, and is
bald at the back of his head. One would never
judge he was the President from looking
at him, though he looks quite as Presidential as
many of his predecessors in office. It is quite
usual to imagine that people must really look like
the ideal one has in mind, but they very rarely do.
However, he does look as if he could fill the
President's chair, even if it is so very large indeed.
His sister is small compared to her brother, she is
rather thin, looks very intellectual, and is sweet
mannered. She gets the credit of being the
power behind the throne, and is spoken of as
strong-minded, and having great influence with
her brother. A very funny story goes the rounds
here, which will give the idea of what is imagined
concerning her, by a large class who, no doubt,
envy her the position she holds here, and are not
half so amiable or approachable as she is. A
Frenchman said, in a satirical and humorous way,
"There was Catharine of Russia, and Elizabeth
of England, and now we have Elizabeth of
America."
	Senator Edmunds is still hammering away at
the Mormons, and public sentiment is at the

[Column 3]

present time pretty well educated in its opposition
to Mormonism. People advise us to take mea-
sures to educate public sentiment on the Mormon
side of the question, but how is that to be done,
when they will only hear one side of the story?
There are some fair-minded people who would
listen, would read, if they had the time, but they
are mostly the busy people, who have so much
business that they have not time for religion. A
few men here and there, and one or two women
see through the schemes of the Federal officials in
Utah, and declare that it is not polygamy they are
fighting, it is a combined effort to rob the people
of their rights; others think Edmunds means well,
but is too zealous, but he does it for the best, and
is an upright man, and would not encroach upon
the rights of others, "but he has got off wrong"
on this "Mormon question." There are those
who fear very much the provision of the bill in re-
gard to the confiscation of Church property—and
those are Church people. And again, the advo-
cates of suffrage for women are indignant that
Senator Edmunds should, want to take the suffrage
away from women and not from men, and
they look upon it as another great injustice to
women, which is, of course, plain to be seen, and
these strong suffragists have the names of the
Senators who voted for that Bill "down on their
lists," and as sure as the world, Edmunds is
down, the ringleader of this gross injustice;
"they've got him on the list," rest assured. But,
then, its only Mormon women, and a few others,
he thinks, no doubt, and that is all right, Mor-
mons have no rights any way that ought to be
respected; that’s exactly what he must think, or
he could never have framed such a bill as this last
one, for his former bill, passed in 1882, covers all
the grouud that the United States at large, the
sixty milllions of people, they talk so much about,
are hankering for, the breaking up of homes that
have been made in plural marriage. This is what
the press and pulpit have howled over, "we must
put down polygamy, and make these Mormons
conform to our views," and then they are just like
other people, but when they've got a law passed
that is so severe that every man against whom
any proof can be obtained is convicted, no matter
how flimsy the testimony, then they are not satis-
fied, but cry out for more, until they may be like
the boy who wanted an apple, and when he got it
he wanted another, and still another, until he
could no longer hold them, and they all rolled
away, and he lost even the first. Senator Ed-
munds is too greedy on the Mormon question, and
has plainly shown to all fair-minded people that
polygamy was only a drop in the bucket, instead
of the great big fish he intends to catch; but if the
great big fish he is after don't swallow him, as the
whale did Jonah, he may think himself pretty
lucky. It is thought, generally, that he is working
for the next Presidental election. "God save the
mark!" The country is badly enough off now,
without such a narrow-minded bigot as he is to
occupy the chair of State. If the sixty millons
of people think the "Mormon" question the one
most necessary to have settled, and the Edmunds
bills, one after another, don't succeed in getting
rid of the Mormons for them, why then, perhaps,
they will think if he was President he could do it;
but Mormons are not so easily bilked, and Con-
gress and the President have some other matters
of a serious nature to engross their attention, and
although Edmunds may be the ablest man in the
Senate, there is a very poor prospect of his being
elected, or even nominated, and some other great
big greedy fish, who is looking after big fish, in-
stead of such small fry as "Mormons," will prob-
ably run away with the coveted prize, and leave
him and his "Mormon" bills to go down stream.
He has, however, probably with other influences
at work, succeeded in arousing a great deal of
animosity against the "Mormons," and prejudice
is very much stronger now than seven years ago,


but it is always the darkest just before day, and to
the true Latter-day Saint there is courage that the
day dawn is near, and though storm clouds may
threaten, and even break over their heads, they
know who can at any moment say to the winds
and waves, "Be still!" and they will obey, and
that there is One above who controls the destinies
of nations and holds them in His hand, and in the
darkest time of deepest trial, the Saints have seen
light spring suddenly forth from the midst of dark-
ness, and help has come when most needed, even
at the last moment, as it were, and while the
Saints are true and faithful and keep the coven-
ants they have made with God and with each
other there is no need of fear and trembling.
	There are so many things to write about, one
scarcely knows where to begin, and, indeed, it is
difficult to decide which matter would be most in-
teresting, but some day we must tell of our visit to
Plymouth and Pilgrim Hall, to Haverhill, where
we met a dear old schoolmate, and felt as though
we had seen a vision—about our Boston cousins,
and so on, the visit to Oak Knoll, one of the
homes of Whittier, the poet, to the grand old
theological town, Andover, where we met Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps, and to the most interesting
visit of all these—in Whittier's study, at his other
home, in Amesbury, where so many of his beauti-
ful poems were written, of the dinner there, and
the hucleberry pie—not "cold huckleberry pud-
ding;" then you must hear, too, of the very queer,
not to say weird old houses we wandered through,
where, when a child, our feet have strayed, and
lastly, the White House and Capitol, where, by
the by, we ascended to the top of the Dome; and
very soon we expect to leave Washington for
other interesting points, among which may be
mentioned Kirtland and Nauvoo.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR CHILDREN.

	This theme, so exhaustless and so important,
although so well worn, is always interesting to
the Latter-day Saints; therefore, no apology is
deemed necessary for its introduction here; in
fact, every issue of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
should contain at least one page devoted to this
one subject.
	Many mothers, who have had long experience
in the rearing of children, are capable of giving
valuable hints to others who have not been in the
work so long, and to whom such hints would be of
great worth. But, alas! the hard-working, careful
mother is rarely the one to find time for sitting
down and writing bits of her experience for the
benefit of others. The result is, we have too
little of such matter in our papers, and too much
that is of far less value.
	From a private letter, written by a lady whose
residence is at Ryde, on the Isle of Wight, the
following extracts are taken by permission:
	"I think those persons are much to be con-
gratulated who are prompt in their habits, and to
whom it is neither effort nor denial to do their
work, and carry out their good purposes with
alacrity. I have heard it said, 'If you want a
thing done, give it to the man who has most to do,'
and I firmly believe it admits of sufficiently sim-
ple explanation, from the force of this most de-
sirable habit. And partly, perhaps, from natural
temperament, it is actually less trouble to such,
even though pressed for time, than to the individu-
al with ample leisure who must needs wait for the
breeze to fill the sails, or, in other words, to be in
the right humor, before making these intentions
take form and become accomplished facts. No
doubt many a good purpose is hopelessly lost in
the horribe quicksand of procrastination, which
would never have been sacrificed deliberately.
	If I had the management of the young, such
points as these are what I should consider of im-
portance, leaving mere book learning to a later

[Column 2]

date, as I firmly believe, often to the gain of the
young learner:
	Kindness and consideration to brothers and
sisters and companions, and to their inferiors in
position, of course, not omitting ready obedience
to parents, teachers and those above them; truth-
fulness, care in making a promise, and great care
in keeping the same, assuming, of course, that
the promise is a right one, and the avoidance of
the procrastination to which I have been just al-
luding; these, and kindred virtues, are what I
should lay every stress on, as laying a worthy and
attractive foundation for development in later
years, nor should I fear for the result.
	That all children, as a rule, are selfwilled, goes
without saying; also, that there is a wide differ-
ence in their dispositions, some seeming to be
born with much better dispositions than others
(Lock's theory, notwithstanding), but when we
see a child given to selfishness, and delighting in
tyranny, or teasing, as the case may be, if un-
checked, what can be expected but that these
faults will become vices in mature age? And it is
a poor set-off against it in such children, that
they are, perhaps, very talented, and in after life
may become great ornaments in society, and that
they can be very agreeable when they like, and
might be of much use if they only chose.
	Talent can be turned to evil as well as good ac-
count, as probably most persons could find sad
examples of, where, it is to be feared, this leading
aim in education, the developing of what is good,
with the repressing of evil tendencies, has been
overlooked or left in abeyance.
	Happily, we are none of us wholly dependent
upon oral tuition or human instructors. We have
all the teaching and training of experience, a safe
teacher in all cases."
	Will not the points tonched upon in the fore-
going be worthy of consideration by many parents
to whose notice they may be brought through their
insertion in the EXPONENT? And will not some
of our gifted and truely wise mothers in Israel,
exert themselves to assist in filling a column, such
as has been mentioned, to aid in the training and
teaching of our children?
	LULA.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	These times of persecution and trouble for
the Latter-day Saints, though aggravating in
their form and hard to bear are neverthe-
less fraught with blessing for them that
are manifest in many ways. There is at the
present a spirit of unity and independence
existing among them to a degree not witnessed
before for many years.
	The injustice and abuse heaped upon the
people are having a good effect upon the minds
of the youths of our Church; many who have
hitherto apparently taken very little interest
in the teachings of the gospel are beginning to
arouse and "buckle on the armor," a spirit
of action begins to burn within them which
without the stimulus that persecution gives
would have lain dormant. And this feeling of
despotism and cruelty which is steadily increas-
ing toward us is not to be regretted when we
realize the purifying effect it has upon us and
especially upon our children who have been
conceived, born and reared under a spirit of
perfect love and confidence. Then, inheriting
as they do this sweet spirit of confiding love
and trust, how essential to their welfare it is
that the emissaries of Satan who have sought
us out and established themselves among us
should be made to throw off the mask and
show themselves in their true character.
	It is pleasing to note how prompt the Y. M.
M. I. A. members, true sons of Abraham, were,
to fold the cloak of independence and pride
about them as soon as our enemies, the wor-

[Column 2]

shippers of Baal, began to uncover their
faces before them.
	How pleasant the situation when all the Lat-
ter-day Saints exhibit in their lives the same
spirit that did that ancient patriarch when
the idolatrous king bent humbly before him
offering presents, and, although the king was
much indebted to him for favors received, yet
he answered that he would not receive from
his hands even the value of a shoe lace. If
we are the children of Abraham we will do
the works of Abraham and pattern after his
ways, and we will not regret any position we
are placed in that will bring us to his stand-
ard of righteousness and nearer the Kingdom
of heaven. No Latter-day Saint who has the
fire of the Gospel burning in his veins can
fail to see that the power of God is in all these
things, and that His arm is stretched out to-
wards us and they cannot help rejoicing under
all the trials we endure. That spirit of sociabili-
ty and freedom that sprung up a few years
ago between our people and the outsiders
was not savoring of good for the Latter-day
Saints, and much care and anxiety
was imposed upon the faithful parents and the
authorities of the Church in consequence of
the tendency of many of our young people to
intermingle and marry with those not of our
faith, and it is well that there is beginning to
be a line drawn and that a separation be made
between the righteous and the ungodly. At
every period of time when God has had a peo-
ple of His choice on the earth the command has
been to not mix with those of an alien creed.
This subject has been frequently and very
plainly spoken upon by the editor of the
Juvenile in editorials and "Topics of the Times"
in that magazine and which no mother or
daughter in Israel should fail to read. He
makes mention of several instances in which
sorrow and distress has been the result when
this law given to Latter-day Israel has been
broken, and to those given by him another
might also be added, that of a young girl of
Salt Lake City, sixteen years old, and a mem-
ber of a highly respectable family in the
Church who married an outsider, who had
lived for many years in the Territory a good
enough man she thought. About a year ago
he came south on his way to Arizona, carrying
with him warrants for the arrest of some of
the leaders of the church whom he expected
to find there, he having been deputized
by Marshal Ireland to hunt these men
down; he took with him his wife, the young
girl mentioned, and a private letter written
by her to a friend a few months ago states that
she was then living in Arizona a few miles
from Phoenix alone and deserted. The noble
defender (?) of woman's rights and persecutor
of the "grey haired abusers of the law" (as he
termed our venerated exiled leaders) had left
her and gone, she knew not where; her watch,
jewelry and all her surplus clothing she had
sold, she said, to buy food for herself and child,
and, she adds, "I know no one in this whole coun-
try and there is nothing left for me to do but
starve." In reference to the death of one of
her friends, she says: "The news of her death
was a shock to me, but she is better off than
I am; I would willingly change places with
her, my greatest sorrow is that I cannot die."
This is a deplorable picture, but the fruits of
the bitter lessons we learn are sweet. And the
sooner the women of Zion learn to follow
strictly the voice of Him who has called them,
the sooner they will be saved from the dread-
ful and damning sins which the men of the
world would heap upon them. They are
learning from the cruelty and injustice im-
posed upon them by the leaders of the nation
and by those who have been foremost in the out-
cry for some law to be enacted to free the Mor-
mon women from their serfdom, that outside of
the fold into which God has called them they
have no friends. They have learned that they


cannot depend upon the governors and judges
of this nation to insure to them their personal
rights. They have seen the liberty, happiness
and all the rights of a wife laid at the feet of
the judge and instead of their being cherished
and protected by him, saw them spurned, cast
aside and trampled upon, while he empowers
the man to crush her, cast her and her lawful-
ly begotten children off and brand them with
shame. I say it is well for the women of Zion
to learn this, that aside from the noble few who
are brave enough to stand forth in the face of
the opposing nation and die if necessary for the
principles of salvation, there are none who
will defend their rights nor protect their virtue.
This purifying flame by the hand of our Father
cannot fail to scathe with grief the hearts of
some, those whose misfortune it has been to be-
come united with those who are wanting in
faith in the gospel and in integrity of heart
and purpose, and are unable to stand before
their oppressors without quailing. With such
wives and mothers our sympathy is deep.
Those are the real sufferers. To see husbands
and sons immured in prisons or seeking refuge
in the mountains like wild beasts is a grievous
thing, but it is much more grievous to see them
crouch with trembling knees, and supplicating
mercy before an infamous judge whose mis-
sion it is to apply the test to prove them. But
if we have husbands and sons who cannot bear
this test and are not willing to bear all for the
truth's sake let us remember that " 'Tis better
that one of the members should perish than
that the whole body should be cast into
hell," and so still kiss the rod that chastens.
'Tis a wise Father who is giving us these se-
vere but soul strengthening lessons; and that
He is on the side of the women of Zion, and
that he is pleased with the work they have
done before Him cannot be doubted by any
except those of little or no faith. He has
proven to them that He has given them true
friends and protectors among the men of the
earth, and that His Priesthood dwells with
them, a fact that does not exist among any
other class of women on the earth. The
prisons of Utah, Arizona, Idaho, and that at
Detroit can answer the question as to what
some of these are. This is a dark hour for
this nation, and the names of those men,
"beacon lights" they have justly been called,
will shine forth in the future history of woman
with a brilliant lustre, and they will live in
the hearts of womankind and be honored
for the noble manner in which they have given
up liberty in defense of that principle which
the women of all nations will yet know was
instituted by God for the salvation of their
race. So I say there is nothing in the present
crusade against us to make even the most
faint hearted woman falter. It is for her to
stand still and see the salvation of Zion, in the
work of which she bears a most honorable
part.		MAC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	MOAB.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a brief report from the Relief
Society and Primary Association of this ward
would be of interest to your many readers, I
submit the following:
	On the 7th of November last a meeting was
called by our esteemed Bishop, R. H. Stewart,
for the purpose of re-organizing the Relief So-
ciety and Primary Association of this ward,
which was made necessary by the death of the
President of the former, Sister China Lutz, and
the removal from the ward of the President of
the latter. The following organization was
effected for the Relief Society: Sarah M.
Burnham, President; Priscilla Warner and
Sarah J. Stewart, Counselors; Amanda E.


Taylor, Secretary; Julia A. Pierce, Treasurer.
For the Primary Association, Anna McBride,
President; Clara M. Burnham and Rose Lutz,
Counselors; Lizzie Roberson, Secretary; Ros-
anna Stewart, Treasurer. The officers were
then set apart by the Bishopric.
	It seems the determination of the officers
and members to press on in the cause of truth
and assist in bearing off the kingdom of God.
Although bemeaned and persecuted for the
Gospel's sake, we know in whom we trust, and
that He will wreak vengeance on those who
fight against Zion, and that we will get our re-
ward by yielding obedience to the requirements
of the Gospel.
	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT,
we subscribe ourselves,
		Your sisters,
	SARAH M. BURNHAM, Prest.,
	AMANDA E. TAYLOR, Sec.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	BLOOMINGTON, Feb. 8th, 1886.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking you would like to hear a word
from this part of the country, I thought I
would write a few lines.
	On the 3rd of February Bishop Hulme and
the President of the Relief Society got up our
customary old folk's party, when all who had
attained the age of fifty and upwards, with a
few invited guests, were present at a dinner
given in the schoolhouse. There were between
ninety-five and a hundred persons seated at a
bounteous repast. After the the tables were
cleared, and singing and prayer, a programme
was gone through, consisting of songs, speeches,
recitations and dancing, all of which was much
enjoyed by all present. The two oldest gentle-
men and the two oldest ladies were each the
recipients of a small present. Prest. James
H. Hart and Prest. Julia P. Lindsay of R. S.
gave us interesting and valuable instructions,
as did a number of brethren and sisters. Since
our last gathering of this kind, we have lost
two of our aged sisters by death, but they were
faithful to the end.
	Our winter has been unusually mild for this
northern country. We occasionally receive a
visit from the marshal or his deputies, but not-
withstanding this we enjoy a good spirit, and
feel that all is well with us so long as we are
true to our covenants and our God.
	Wishing success to your paper, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.

	WEST JORDAN, Jan. 17th 1886.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is my first attempt to write to your
valuable paper, so I hope you will please ex-
cuse my feeble efforts, as I feel I would like
to pen a few items of my experience.
	A few years ago I knew a noble young
woman, who had been taught from her infancy
to love truth and virtue and the principles of
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Her affections were
placed upon an honest, good and intelligent
man. She entered into the marriage relation
by making solemn vows and covenants that
were for all time and eternity. In the course
of time she was blessed with offspring and
among them a pair of twin baby girls. They
were very delicate; but by the careful and
affectionate care of the loving mother and
the faith and earnest prayers of a fond father
the Lord stayed the hand of the destroyer and
they were snatched, as it were, repeatedly
from the jaws of death.
	As time rolled on they could run around the
mother's knee with their prattling sweet voices
raised in musical tones singing "Sweet Birds,
Sweet Birds". On the fourteenth of January

[Column 2]

they would be two years old, so the fond mother
thought she would invite a few of her rela-
tives and friends and celebrate the day by
returning thanks to God our Heavenly Father
that He had spared their lives up to the pres-
ent time, hoping to have a pleasant time and a
sociable visit. On the morning of the thir-
teenth, just as they had risen from their bended
knees in offering up their thanks to God for
sparing their lives through another night, and
asking for His blessings through another day,
there came a knock at the door, and who
should it be but a deputy marshal, who soon
spread confusion and sorrow in that happy
family. The next morning that sorrow-
stricken mother was compelled to leave her
twin babes and two other dear children and
take her infant a month old and travel twelve
miles to Salt Lake City exposed to the cold
inclement weather, there to appear before
judge and jury. Her feelings may be imagined
when she reflected that her truthful testimony
was likely to tear that dear husband and af-
fectionate father from his dear wives and little
innocent children and place him inside prison
walls, there to mingle with murderers, thieves
and other wicked men. Next morning, feeble
and weak after the exposure and excitement
of the day before, she was seated in her easy
chair with her baby in her arms, when there
again came two deputy marshals wanting some
person they supposed to be there, telling her
their business and saying that they were
sorry, but if she did not tell the truth and the
whereabouts of the person they wanted they
would be compelled to take her to the city and
perhaps it would cause her imprisonment.
She said she did not know where the person
was any more than they did. After searching
the house and not finding the object of their
inquiry and asking her many questions which
she answered to the best of her ability, they
finally said they believed she told the truth.
They could not look that saintly woman in
the face and say otherwise. Well, such trials
the Saints of God are subjected to to-day.
What will come next? Well may the cry go
up, "oh Lord how long, how long, must thy
people endure these things for conscience sake."
	Praying the Lord to give His children
strength sufficient for their day, I am,
		Yours etc.,
			M. B.


THE WOMAN OF INFLUENCE.

	Mr. Worth, the eminent Paris dressmaker,
telegraphs to the Boston Sunday Herald that
the great and pressing need of the age is a
Woman of Influence, somewhere or other, to
set the fashions. In default of this, he has,
after exhausting his genius upon a new dress,
to use various indirect devices to bring it into
vogue. When one thinks what a beautiful
work of art a lady's dress may be, when wealth
and Worth have done their best for it, and
what an apalling product mere wealth, without
taste, can develop under that name, one may
well give a sigh of sympathy to this man of
genius who can find no woman quite worthy of
his scissors. Yet the truth is that the Woman
of Influence is demanded not alone to wear
clothes, but to modify and control all the
habits of society. A person of power, of in-
dividuality, of resouoces, of charm, is needed
in every place where a woman stands, and is
not to be had in answer to an advertisement.
"What we want," said a certain school com-
mittee-man, after a long debate in committee
about the best way to secure a competent fe-
male assistant in the high school—"what we
want, gentlemen, is a splendid woman." This
was at once accepted by all as the complete
formula for the situation; it was the later task
of actually hunting up this priceless creature
and securing for her eight hundred dollars a
year that proved formidable.


[Column 1]

	In these days one is certainly impressed with
the prominence of literature as a sphere for the
Woman of Influence. When we think of the
thousands of high schools and academies
throughout the land in which, next gradua-
tion-day, some maiden in white will read an
essay on "The Genius of George Eliot," we
may well say with Rufus Choate, "After all, a
book is the only immortality." And surely
the reader is impressed with the way in
which a woman's genius, even if not of
the very highest order, may retain its hold
after her death, on seeing the late statements
of Mr. Routledge, the great publisher of
cheap books in England, as to the continued
demand for Mrs. Heman's poetry. In the last
generation the pure and melodious muse of
this lady had great reputation; her American
editor was Professor Andrews Norton, father
of the present Professor Charles Eliot Norton,
and one of the most cultivated critics of his
day; and it appears from the late memoirs of
Garrison that her verses were long the favorite
food of that strong and heroic mind. Yet it
has been the custom to speak of her popularity
as a thing of the past. Now comes Mr. Rout-
ledge and gives the figures as to his sales of
the different poets in the year ending June 12,
1885. First comes Longfellow, with the ex-
traordinary sale of 6,000 copies; then we drop
to Scott, with 3,170; Shakespeare, 2,700; Byron,
2,380; Moore, 2,276; Burns, 2,250. To these
succeeds Mrs. Hemans, with a sale of 1,900
copies; Milton falling short of her by 50, and
no one else showing much more than half that
demand. Hood had 980 purchasers, Cowper
800, and all others less; Shelley had 500, and
Keats but 40. Of course this is hardly an ap-
proximate estimate of the comparative popu-
larity of these poets, since much would depend,
for instance, on the multiplicity or value of
rival editions; but it proves in a general way
that Mrs. Hemans holds her own, in point of
readers, fifty years after her death. What
other form of influence for man or woman
equals this?
	Yet there may be other modes of action.
That of Florence Nightingale for instance,
modestly vindicating a woman's foresight
against the dulness and red tape of a whole
War Department; and returning from the most
superb career of public service that ever
woman had, with ruined health, but with such
universal love and reverence from the Crimean
army that a statue would have been erected to
her by a penny subscription had she not re-
fused it. That of Clara Barton or Dorothea
Dix, or Mary Livermore, or Jean Lander, or
Mother Brickerdyke, in our own civil war.
That of many a worker in the Associated
Charities of our large cities; or of those special
organizations which were almost always carried
on, thirty years ago, under the official leader-
ship and treasurership of men, but which have
been steadily falling, more and more, during
that period, into the hands of women. That
of many a woman of society, so called, who
recognizes in "society" itself a sphere for con-
scientious duty—so that the tone of a whole
town or city may sometimes be said to be kept
up or let down according as the leading "so-
ciety woman" is a person of character or a
doll. That of many a woman in some log
cabin on the frontier, whose "society" consists
in a dozen children of her own and perhaps
two or three more taken in from charity; the
woman who, nameless and noteless, maintains
that average quality among our American peo-
ple that can always be relied upon to send
from obsecurity a Lincoln or a Grant in time
of imminent need. Beyond all these, perhaps,
in total influence, ranks the great army of
women teachers, spreading their unseen and
daily labors through every school district from
Cape Cod to the Golden Gate; smoothing the
waste places, equalizing all our civilization,
doing the most for the poorest; and again, in

[Column 2]

the upper regions of education, rising into the
work of such missionaries of the highest train-
ing as Mary Lyon in the past, or Alice Free-
man in the present. Compared with these, how
petty seem the little struggles for position and
etiquette! In what lingering childishness does
the most exalted womanhood of Europe seem
still to be involved when we read in the tele-
graphic headings, "Great indignation of Queen
Victoria," and find that this excitement re-
lates, not to the tremendous Irish problem and
the threatened dismemberment of her empire,
but to the hesitation of certain courts of
Europe to accord to Prince Henry Something-
or-other, her latest son-in-law, the title of "His
Royal Highness!"—T. W. H., in Harper's
Bazar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE CARY FAMILY.

THE POET SISTERS.

	No names are better known to the school
children of Cincinnati perhaps than the names
—Alice and Phoebe Cary; yet it may be that
many of the children do not realize the fact
that the two sisters who wrote so much of the
poetry read and recited in the schools were
born and grew up to girlhood right near Cin-
cinnati—within three miles, perhaps, of the
city's present limits. The "brown house low
and small" in which they were born is gone to
decay, and only a sunken place in the ground
marks the spot where it stood. The "fruitful
apple and cherry trees which grew so
close they nearly pushed their thrifty boughs
through the attic window and shook their
fruit upon the mossy roof; the luxriant sweet-
brier which grew beneath the window, 
the small garden with its two straight rows of 
currant bushes and bed of vegetables on either
side, the rose bushes and thriving peach tree, 
shading a row of beehives, and its withered
mate suuporting a fragrant hop vine" described
by Phoebe, are all gone; as is also the "path
of blue flag-stones which led to a well of cool, 
unfailing water." The well is still there, but
unused, and covered with rails and boards;
cedar trees and bushes have grown up all
around the well, as if to protect it.
	The old "ample, weather-beaten barn, the
busy haunt of the restless swallows and quiet, 
comfortable doves, and in all seasons the
never-failing resort for children," has left no
trace of itself. But the oak tree which, Phoebe
said, "had been kindly spared from the forest
when the clearing was made for the house," in
1814 or '15, still "throws its thick, cool shad-
ows over the road."
	Alice Cary was born on the 26th day of
April, 1820. Her sister, Phoebe, was born
September 4, 1824. In early life their parents
were very poor and the sisters had to do their
reading, studying and writing at night, after
the day's work was done. The country was
new, no railroads, telegraphs, telephones, 
libraries, to aid them. But few books and
papers found their way to them, and the
schools were poor, and generally only kept
during the winter, when the road (a mile and
a quarter long) to the school house was rough
and muddy. This school-house—a little one-
roomed brick building—stood until a few
years ago, and the sycamore tree which Alice
planted, near by, still grows.
	The Carys built a new dwelling house in
1832, in which, as Alice said, "the faimily ex-
pected to see the beginning of better times, 
but saw nothing but trouble and sorrow." This
house still stands, and is occupied by Warren
Cary, a brother—a hale, kind man of fifty-
nine years, who ever seems willing and glad
to show to visitors the places of interest made
sacred by the verses of his two gifted sisters. 
	Another brother, Asa, the constant com-
panion and playmate of Phoebe in childhood


[Column 2]

days, lives across the road (Hamilton Pike)
from the old home. Alice and Phoebe left
the childhood home and went to New York in
1850 and began their literery life in earnest
papers all over the country had already con-
tained fragments of poetry from their pens, 
but the first novel written by Alice, entitled, 
"Hager, a Story of To-day," appeared in the
Cincinnati Commercial in 1851-2. After
that the Cary sisters soon became well-known
writers, and their home was the favorite re-
sort of the literati.
	Both sisters died in 1871, and are buried side
by side in Greenwood Cemetery, N. Y.
	A Mr. Alexander Swift, who had in early
life married a sister, Susan Cary, and after
her death wedded yet another sister, Almina
Cary, started, a scheme a few years ago to fur-
nish the old home on College Hill with all the
rich and tasteful furniture which adorned the
New York home, and keep it ever as a memo-
rial place. He bought the "Cary place" for
that purpose, but the furniture belonged to his
daughter Alice, "Little Alice," who had mar-
ried a Mr Clymer. Mr. Clymer and his
father-in-law had a falling out, and he refused
to give up the furniture, and has it with him
in Pensylvania, saving it for his children, he
says.
	Many persons from all over the country,
especially from New York, visit the "Cary
place," and the verses of the two gifted
daughters of Ohio are sung in the churches,
recited in the schools by old and young.
	In the College Hill Cary graveyard, not
far away and also close to the pike lies buriedChristopher Cary, the Grandfather, who was
born in Windsor. Ct., 1763; died in Cincinnati,
February 6, 1837.  There are buried there,
too, several revolutionary soldiers; one, a
Henry Deats, was a soldier of 1776; died
August 20, 1843, in the nineteenth year of his
age.  Another, James Keniston, who served
five years' active service in the war for freedom
the tombstone says.  Many of the Carys sleep
here, but the immediate relatives, except the
grandfather, have been removed to Spring
Grove.—Commercial Gazette,
	E. S. D.


PICKING OUT GOOD ORANGES.

	To very many an orange is an orange, the
only variation distinguishable being in size
and corresponding price, while those who
know the difference between "Florida," "Se-
ville," and "Messina" oranges are considered
experts. The "Florida catechism" tells us
better than that. We learn from it that there
are "over thirty" varieties of sweet oranges,
not to mention the "natural stock," which is
a larger and handsomer fruit than the sweet
orange, and is excellent for orangeade and
marmalade, but, being very sour is seldom
shipped North. The medium sizes are apt to
be the choicest, and "probably the very sweet-
est orange that is marketed is the rusty coated
and rather ill-looking orange, which might be
considered inferior by an amateur." Further-
more, "the way to detect oranges is to 'heft'
them in your hands; pick out the thin skined
heavy fruit, and you are all right." The light-
weight fruit is apt to be juiceless, a condition
caused either by a slight freezing while on the
tree, or, more probably, by the poverty of the
soil in which it grew.
	All this applies to the sweet oranges. The
"kid glove" oranges are grown in Florida
from two stocks brought, respectively, from
China and Tanglers. Hence they are called
Mandarin and Tangerine oranges. Both are
small; the skin is loose and easily removed, and
the sections fall apart so readily that a lady
can eat without soiling her gloves; hence the
name.
	Some other interesting bits of information


may be picked out from this "Catechism."  It
is not generally known, for instance, that "an
orange that is entirely dead ripe in December
will hang on the tree until March, and is
ready at any time to be picked and shipped;" 
while so far from deteriorating, "the longer
they hang on the trees the sweeter they grow,"
and Florida oranges, purchased in February
and March, are therefore apt to be better
than those procured early in the season.  Again
the notion that to know what an orange is
really like, one must go where the oranges
grow appears to be a popular fallacy, as wel
are told that "the orange picked from the tree
is no riper or better than the orange on the
fruit stall in the North."—Philadelphia En-
quirer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME DECORATIONS.

	Home-Made Hanging Baskets.—Take an old
tin two-quart basin; paint it inside so that it
will not rust; cover the outside with putty. 
Split peach stones and stick the parts into the
putty; after the putty hardens, varnish the
outside.  Fill the basket with earth, and plant
in it such vines or flowers as fancy may dic-
tate. 
	Fans.—Palm leaf fans are covered with silk
or cretonne, and have a loose piece of the same
material attached so as to form a bag.  There
are pompons around the edge at regular dis-
tances.  They are hung against the wall, 
handle upward, and serve as receptacles for
odds and ends.  The outsides are painted;
gilded, or covered with silk or satin, fitting 
tightly. 
	Flowers at Table.—Their beauty and frag-
rance add not a little to the pleasure of the
table hour.  A large, fragrant bouquet takes the
place of an extra dish.  And nothing is so
cheap as flowers.  During a considerable part
of the year they cost absolutely nothing.  It is 
the sweetest pleasure to grow them.  And it is
surprising to find how cheaply a small con-
servatory may be managed.


Mrs. Bancroft, the wife of the historian, is
said to be preparing a volume of her reminis-
cences and experiences.  As she was a belle at
Washington sixty years ago, and has seen
many of the best people and places at home
and abroad, she has the materials for an un-
commonly interesting book. 
	Mlle. Benoit, a young vendean lady who
lately took her medical degree, is now ap-
pointed medical examiner of girls throughout
the municipal schools of Paris.  It is the busi-
ness of Mlle. Benoit to see that girls are not
overworked, and that they get through their
studies under sanitary conditions. 
	The woman suffragists of Iowa have great
reason to hope, that the bill for municipal
suffrage will be carried by the L[-]gislature
this winter.  The governor has recommended
it.  The attorney-general supports: it.  The
prohibitory party has adopted it.  Leading,
papers in that S[-]ate advocate it.  The suffra-
gists petition and work for it.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	For rough hands use lemon juice. 

	Tepid milk and water without soap will clean oil cloth.
	
Mince Meat Without Liquors.—Use three howls of meal,
six of apple, one of suet, one of raisins, one of citron, 
three of molasses, one of appl[-] jelly or any other sour
fruit juice, and spices. 

Rice Pudding Without Eggs.—Take two quarts of milk, 
from one and a half to two teacupfuls of rice, one cupful
of sugar, a cupful of raisins, a piece of butter the size of
an egg, and a little nutmeg.  Bake the pudding two hours.


Cologne Water.—Use oil of lavender one drachm, oil
of bergamot one drachm, oil of lemon two drachms, oil of
rosemary two drachms, fifty drops of tincture of musk,
eight drops of oil of cinnamon, eight drops of oil of cloves,
and one pint of alcohol.
	Fruit Cake. Two cupfuls of butter, three of sugar, and
three and one-half cupfuls flour, eight eggs, one pound of
raisins, one pound of citron, one teaspoonful of cloves, a
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg or a little mace, and
one gill of brandy or milk.
	Tapioca Pudding.—Soak two-thirds of a cupful of
tapioca over night, in one quart of milk; then add three
beaten eggs, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, butter the size of
an egg, one whole lemon, grated; after baking for three
quarters of an hour, serve the noodles with milk or
cream.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Amanda M. Matticc, born December 4th, 1869, in
Porterville, Morgan Co., Utah. Died at Pima, Graham
Co., Arizona, November 5th, 1885, of typhoid malaria.
	She was a young lady of refined habits, ever willing to
do her duty in the Y. L. M. I. A., of which she was a
worthy member, also an affectionate and dutiful daughter.
		RHODA E. FOSTER, 
		LOUISA JOHOSON,
		PERMELIA A. RANSOME.

	Now her earthly toils are over,
		She is free from care and pain,
	Though we miss her, sadly miss her,
		Our loss is her eternal gain.

Pima, Jan. 31st, 1886.


OBITUARIES.

	Sister Betsy Crane, of Provo, Utah, departed this life on
the 29th of December, 1885. Deceased was born March
29th, 1830, at Andover, Hampshire, England, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1882. She was a faithful member and a
teacher in the Fourth Ward Relief Society, which, on her
demise, passed oppropriate resolutions.

	DIED, in Centerville Ward, Davis Co., Utah, January
4th, 1886, of consumption, Thirza Jane, the eldest and
dearly beloved daughter of Alwood and Ann Elizabeth
Brown, born at Walton, Derbyshire, England, September
13th, 1870. With her parents, came to Utah in 1872.
Modest and unassuming in her manners, she was truly be-
loved by all who knew her. Though greatly afflicted from
her infancy, she bore all without a murmur. She died in
full faith of the Gospel, and in the hope of a glorious
resurrection. The Primary Association passed resolutions
of respect.
		OLIVE CLEAVELAND, Secretary.

	DIED, at Richfield, Severe Co., on the 5th of December,
Augusta J. Westman, eldest daughter of Peter E. and
Johanna M. Westman, aged fourteen years, eight months
and twenty-four days. She was on extraordinary girl of
her age. Her greatest ambition was to gain knowledge
and do good to others She acted as a leading member in
the Primary Association since its organization, and was
Assistant Secretary. In the Y. L. M. I. A. and Sunday
School she was a most energetic member, as well as Secre-
ary of the Silk Association. Resolutions were adopted,
expressing, in the highest terms, the worth in which de-
ceased was held by her associates.	M. A.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[depiction of a hand and finger pointing to the right] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
		
[depiction of a hand and finger pointing to the right] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
[depiction of a hand and finger pointing to the right] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age! 
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[in the center is an ink drawing of a domestic sewing table and machine. There are columns of text running vertical on either side.]

[Column to the left of the drawing]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple! 
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Column to the right of the drawing]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years.

Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
SALT LAKE CITY, 
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
	
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPRORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[depiction of hand and finger pointing to the right] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
	
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1886.	No. 19.


TWO.

Two little girls together played,
Together earth's fair scenes surveyed,
	Together ate and slept;
Together studied nature's looks,
Or read the same instructive books,
	Together laughed or wept.

Together culled the sweet wild flowers,
And walked and talked mid summer hours,
	Together sang and prayed;
Thus grew they up to womanhood,
And still together firmly stood,
	Both lived, nor either strayed.

But, oh! there came a time to part!
Two worthy men gained each a heart;
	Henceforth two pathways lie:
Sister you understand my rhymes,
You recollect scenes, places, times;
	Those girls were you and I.

In time each woman's heart received
The first great good her life achieved,
	Its first rare gift from heaven;
Plan'd they, as others may have done,
Two future pathways 'merged in one;
	One boy, one girl were given.

Alas! how meagre is the chance
For mortal wishes to advance,
	Unchecked by Providence!
Mortality's light veil He lifts,
Recalls those first, rare, precious gifts,
	And softly bears them hence.

Though parted, still together grieve
Two mother hearts, and both receive
	That consolation sure,
Which trust in the Eternal One,
Faith in the Father and the Son,
	Are potent to secure.

In realms of peace and love and light,
Two angel cherubs, fair and bright,
	Pure as immortal flowers,
Together walk and laugh and sing,
And wait their mothers' entering,
	Sister, those babes are ours.

		LULA.


WRITE TO ME VERY OFTEN.

Write to me very often,
	If you send me but a line,
For the ocean rolls between us,
	Yet your life seems linked to mine.
I am tarrying with strangers,
	But when your letters come,
My heart is big with rapture,
	For they speak of love and home.

Write to me very often,—
	My lone heart lingers so
For the balm your letters bring me,
	When my sad eyes overflow.
As I scan the kind epistle
	That meets my greatest need,
I see your loved face looking up
	In every line I read.

Write to me very often,
	Consoler that thou art!
Thy kind words fall like cooling dews
	Upon my burning heart.
They strengthen, they refresh me,
	Like pure, ambrosial wine,
And while I drink them in my soul
	Content and peace are mine.
Write to me very often,
	Thou art so far away,
Thy voice may not break on my ear
	For many a weary day.


But I'll see thee in my letters,
	And I'll think I hear thee speak,
And I'll feel, in fancy, while I read,
	Thy warm breath on my cheek.

So write to me very often,
	If you send me but a line,
For the ocean rolls between us,
	And your life seems linked to mine;
And e'en one line will tell me,
	With more than magic skill,
That, though I'm absent from thy side,
	I am remembered still.


[Column 1]

WHAT NEXT?

	The facility with which the anti-"Mormon"
demagogue changes his base, and as fast as one
pretext serving him as a breast-work is torn
away, hides himself behind another, rivals the
agility of the nocturnal flea, or the fickleness
of the color-changing chameleon. Illustra-
tions are, like Falstaff's reasons, "as plenty as
blackberries," but we need not pick from the
prolific bush more than one or two at the pre-
sent time.
	How often it has been asserted, by those
honestly or dishonestly opposed to the poly-
gamic principle of our religion, that if that
one obnoxious feature were only done away
and its practice should henceforth cease, all
hostility to "Mormonism" would vanish into
thin air, the oil of peace would be poured upon
the troubled waters of political and religious
strife in Utah, and the Millennial sun would
be almost ready to dawn upon this portion of
our war-weary and benighted planet.
	That many persons are sincere in this belief,
I doubt not, any more than I do that many
others are not so. Those who really believe it
are, for the most part, well meaning but super-
ficial thinkers, who have studied carelessly or
not at all the crimson-hued history of religious
persecution, particularly those chapters—des-
tined, thank heaven! to be among the closing
ones—relating to the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	I need hardly refer in this connection, to the
unfounded charges, ridiculous as they were
numerous, preferred against the early Chris-
tains and cited by their merciless oppressors in
justification of their cruelty to that universally
despised and unpopular sect; nor give more
than a passing glimpse at the lurid scenes of
rapine and murder with which history re-
peated itself in the days of the expulsion of
the Saints from Missouri, when the pretense
put forth to palliate such horrors was not, as
some might suppose, the now terrible offense of
patriarchal marriage. No; "polygamy" was
not then the popular note to sound, the revela-
tion regarding it not having been given to the
Church. Hence, some other excuse had to be
invented, some other catch-word adopted, some
other cloak made to order to cover up the real
object of the murderous crusade against an in-
nocent people, "everywhere spoken evil of,"
whose appealed cause was admitted to be just
by the Executive of the nation, who in the
same breath acknowledged himself power-
less to interfere for their protection, or afford
for their past cruel wrongs the slightest re-
dress.
	And what, in those early days, was "Mor-
monism's" alleged offense, or more properly
speaking, the main accusation, since they have
ever been, like Abraham's posterity, innumer-
able? In brief this: that the Latter-day

[Column 2]

Saints, like the Saints of former days, claimed
to receive revelations from on High, and were
organized with Apostles and Bishops, etc., in
conformity with the ecclesiastical system of
government that prevailed in the ancient
Christian Church. These awful crimes excited
the jealous wrath of the priests of perverted
and apostate Christianity, and it was not a
difficult thing for these "holy men," who
"spake as they were moved upon" by the spirit
of Satan, to poison the minds of their pious,
flocks, and aided by scheming knaves and politi-
cal tricksters of whom little else could be ex-
pected, to create a sentiment so bitterly hostile
that nothing but the blood of innocence which
it shed could satiate it. These facts have
passed into history, not yet written in its ful-
ness, but some day to be thundered by impar-
tial justice from the house tops.
	But what do we next hear? Has the same
old pretext been used to extenuate all later
exhibitions of Christian hatred toward this
"peculiar people" since they left the confines of
civilization to build up and beautify an Eden
in the heart of the American desert? Not en-
tirely. The real cause remains, as ever, un-
changed; but the ostensible one has shifted,
veered and fluttered about like a weather-cock
in a wind storm. Polygamy, being published,
became immensely popular as a war cry, and
its imaginary horrors were sufficiently blood-
curdling, without "Apostles and Bishops," to suit
every purpose of the conspiring hypocrites
who create, in order to pander to and be paid
by, a mistaken public sentiment as wide-spread
as it is unwarrantable.
	This polygamic wire has been twanged till
it is almost ready to snap assunder from age
and prolonged use, and those whose business it
is to string the harp of slander and tune it to
the ever-varying popular pitch, have found it
necessary to look about once more for material
to meet the imminent popular demand for a
change. "Blood atonement" will hardly do,
for that has seen much service also, and like
"polygamy" is getting sadly out of tune.
There is something, however, that suits the
times "to a T," and, far from wonderful to tell,
it has already been stretched and played
upon. 
	And what is this newer bugaboo?—this Olym-
pus of popular dread—this towering mountain
of a nation's alarm that "singes its pate against
the burning zone," making the polygamic
"Ossa like a wart?" In sooth, "Church rule in
politics," an autocratic theocracy, imperium in
imperio, a "Mormon" empire in an American
republic, an "ecclesiastical right divine as
opposed to the ballots of a free people"—
and yards on yards of similar stuff, all
of which, summed up and simmered down,
might be put thus: a handful of relig-
ious worshippers, armed with implements
of labor, with their feet firmly planted on
the granite backbone of the American conti-
nent, leering down upon and threatening with
an avalanche of hymn books the peace, wel-
fare and existence of a shivering little group
of fifty-five millions of people.
	This then is the leading pretext of to-day;
the comet of ill-omen now sweeping and swish-
ing through the political heavens, with "poly-
gamy," "blood atonement" and all the other
little horrors following and serving as its tail.
But tell us, what has this new terror to stand
on? Is it utterly without foundation, like the
vast majority of its predecessors, or has it, like


some of the more notable ones, a shadow of
tangibility, which at first sight, but at first sight
only, seems almost as plausible as a skeleton's
visible, or a vagrant's imaginary means of sup-
port? Simply this and nothing more: the
"Mormons," like all true Bible believers, hold
that the God of heaven and Maker of the earth
intends ere long to pay a personal visit to this
planet, to take for a season the reins of govern-
ment into His own hands, establishing a reign
of universal peace and righteousness and re-
quiring all nations to acknowledge His sceptre.
They further believe that, as usual, He has
sent word on ahead, in order not to take the
world entirely unaware, and has commissioned
certain humble, God-fearing men to preach
the glad tidings to their fellow creatures and
prepare the way for His coming.
	This is the very head and front of "Mormon
treason, rebellion," and all the rest of the clap-
trap which continually salutes the tired eyes
and ears of a long-suffering public. It is the
government of God that these Christian priests
and politicians regard as a foreign power; it is
Jesus Christ whom they stigmatize as an inva-
der, and whose approach they are preparing to
repel with all the force and fury at their com-
mand. Who would have thought that the
parable of the Vineyard would find its applica-
tion in the nineteenth century, and "in the
land of the free and the home of the brave?"
Who would have supposed that in this profes-
sedly Christian nation, a Bible prophecy in re-
lation to the coming of the King of kings
would be used as a pretext to justify the sup-
pression of a people and religion whose only
crime is clinging to the hope of its literal ful-
filment? What next will be the scare-crow to
keep away honest investigation into the merits
of "Mormonism?" What next will afford a
temporary rampart for the conspirators who
are too cowardly to assail this much maligned
religion except from behind a barricade of
subterfuge, sophistry, misconstructions and
make-believes?
		ORSON F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	I had known very little of Frances Swan
previous to our coming to Winter Quarters. I
had met her at the house of Sister Silvie Lyons,
when she made her home in Nauvoo, and un-
derstood her to be my father's wife. Through
report, some of our family had formed rather
an unfavorable opinion of her, but knew noth-
ing against her. She had borne father one
child, which died, I believe, before leaving
Nauvoo.
	Our intimate acquaintance began after the
pioneers had left. She was then living with
Sisters Presendia and Laura Kimball, and was
in the enjoyment of her religion, and the love
of God reigned in our midst to that extent
that it brought love and charity for one an-
other, and drove away every ill feeling that
had previously had place in our hearts, prov-
ing beyond doubt that we had found the true
path, and the only one that will take us into
the celestial kingdom.
	Frances had been educated in Scotland, and
was a women of no ordinary talent. She was
capable of doing a great amount of good, but
when out from under the influence of the good
spirit, she was subject to the greatest tempta-
tions, and at times the powers of darkness
seemed to have perfect control over her, which
made her society anything but desirable. We
understand that the greater light one receives,
the greater are the temptations afterwards,

[Column 2]

and the more liable one is to fall away, and
this was the fate of Frances.
	She was warned of it in dreams, and after
coming to the valley she had the following one,
which she told to members of the family, at
which time she professed to be strong in the
faith:
	She dreamed that she was walking with
father's wives, my mother leading the way, up
a steep mountain, till they came to a narrow
place like a tunnel, which looked impossible
for any one to go through, but she said they
all went through but herself, and she refused,
saying, "I had rather go round, if it is farther,
than to go through that place," although
mother plead with her, reaching out her hands,
as she besought her to come, as that was the
only way, and she was distressed at the thought
of leaving her there alone. She also assured
her of their safety, and how glad they were
that they had passed through; "though," said
she, "it crushed me till I could hear my bones
snap; but you are smaller, Frances, and it
could not hurt you as it did me." But it was
all to no avail; she lacked the faith and hu-
mility necessary to endure what the Saints of
God are required to to make them fit for the
kingdom of heaven. A few years from that
date saw her in California, the wife of a man
younger than herself, one whom she had known
in Nauvoo previous to becoming my father's
wife. It was quite a surprise to her ac-
quaintances at Salt Lake, that she should have
taken up with the man she had once con-
sidered so inferior to the one whom she had
chosen to be her leader through time and all
eternity. I know that during her sojourn with
his family he sought her welfare and
happiness, in connection with all the rest, as
faithfully as a man could do. When she
would be laboring under temptation, he would
talk and reason with her like a kind, consider-
ate father, as he was, and this is the course he
took with his numerous family, and which he
was noted for among those who knew him best,
until his manifold cares and responsibilities,
increasing with his years, and the increasing
toil and anxiety for the welfare of this people,
in connection with his brethren, left him little
time to listen, or to make a balm to heal every
wound, real or fancied, or to untie every knot-
ty question that could better have been done
by those who were most concerned.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Anthony estimates that twenty-six
members of the U. S. Senate are in favor of
woman suffrage.
	Miss Louisa Alcott has had her features per-
petuated in a fine profile bas-relief in bronze
by M. W. Rickertson, of Boston.
	Miss Ada C. Sweet made a witty speech in
behalf of old maids before the Sorosis Club
the other day. The Chicago Inter-Ocean says,
"If all 'old maids' were like Miss Sweet they
would need no defense."
	A statue of Queen Victoria, by the Princess
Louise, has been placed in the front of Lich-
field Cathedral. Her son, the Duke of Edin-
burgh, recently gave a violin performance at
a public concert in London.
	The fate of successful patent medicine men
is not always happy. Ayer and Helmbold be-
came insane, and now we hear that Perry
Davis, of "Pain Killer" fame, is a lunatic in a
Philadelphia almshouse.—Medical Record.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg recently visited
her birthplace, the town of Sumter, S. C., and 
gave a concert there. On the arrival of the
cars the members of her company arose in
their seats and disembarked, singing "Home

[Column 2]

Again," in compliment to the birthplace of
Miss Kellogg.
	Governor Seymour's aversion to display ex-
tended to the erection of showy monuments.
Acting in accord with his views, he selected
and paid for his monument some ten years ago.
It lies where he found it, in the town of Rem-
sen, Oneida County, and consists of a boulder
of native granite, 5 1/2 feet long, 2 feet wide, and
1 1/4 feet thick.
	Mrs. Evelyn T. Underhill, of New York
City, lately received an imperative summons
to report herself for jury duty, or show cause
why she should be exempt. Mrs. Underhill
replied that she knew of no reason why she
should be exempt, and was entirely willing to
serve. Whereupon the Portland Argus says
"How unlike a man!"
	Mme. Patti had a curious experience recent-
ly of the enthusiasm of Roumanian women.
She had just finished one of her most effective
arias in the opera house of Bucharest, when a
number of women suddenly rose to their feet
and threw white pigeons with ribbons on their
necks upon the stage, until the singer was sur-
rounded by the fluttering birds.
	In accordance with a resolution of the
American Woman Suffrage Association, adopt-
ed at its last annual meeting, to co-operate
with the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion in the effort to secure a sixteenth amend-
ment, a memorial to Congress, signed by the
officers of the American Association, asking
for a Constitutional amendment forbidding dis-
franchisement on account of sex, was forwarded
this week to Senator George F. Hoar.
	Senator Edmunds has introduced a new
Mormon bill. With all the terrible sufferings
of his people close at hand, he can see no
service for humanity nearer than Utah! This
bill repeals woman suffrage. Thus, in a state
of society claimed to be specially hostile to
woman, he robs her of her best weapon of de-
fense, the ballot. The bill declares that
children born of other than the lawful wife
shall not inherit their father's property. This
is devilish, and when we say it we want to ask
old Nick's pardon. It outrages humanity and
justice. What can be more mean and cruel
than to cast a stigma upon an innocent child
and debar it the rights of inheritance. For
shame, Senator Edmunds, to turn your back
thus upon the progress of your age. You
seek to right one wrong by the commission of
another far more atrocious and far-reaching
than the plural marriage of Utah—the degrada-
tion of woman and the stamping of the brand
of disgrace and poverty upon innocent child-
hood!—Our Country, Dec. 28, 1885.
	The passage of the Edmunds bill, to destroy
the Mormon church, by a vote of 38 to 7 is
one of the most disgraceful acts of American
legislation.
	That bill abolishes woman suffrage, denies
the rights of inheritance to innocent children
and appoints trustees to seize the estates of the
churches. It is the offspring of avarice, bigotry
and lust aiming to remove all the safeguards
of law, that they may prey upon the lands,
property and women of a defenseless people.
	The border influence, which gets up Indian
wars that it may thrive on plunder is behind
this bill. A few senile and bloodless bigots
who love persecution, really believe in it.
Most, however, who voted for it were driven
by the terrorism skillfully managed by Ed-
munds. They were afraid to be called Mor-
mons if they did not vote down liberty under
the pretext of extirpating polygamy. The
same class would seize the property of Cath-
olics to-morrow and turn the Sisters of Charity
over to the mob, if they dared!—Our Country,
Jan. 16, 1886.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


I'M GOING HOME.

LINES WRITTEN ON RETURNING TO UTAH AFTER A
VISIT IN THE EAST, SEPTEMBER, 1885.

BY M. W TANNER.

I'm going home across the trackless prairie,
	O'er which we wandered many years ago;
Then we were sad and footsore, worn and weary,
	Bending our steps t' escape the wanton foe.

I mark the plains o'er which our feeble footsteps
	Trod sore and long upon the burning sands,
And almost fancy I can see the waymarks
	Made by those homeless, emigrating bands.

The plains reach out to meet the far horizon,
	As bleak and bare and arid as of old;
And fading trails, where wandered once the bison,
	Still dimly show along the grassy mold.

The skies are blue, with here and there a cloudlet,
	The sunshine glimmers on the stunted grass,
But not a tree nor any flowering leaflet
	To greet our vision as we quickly pass.

I sit and think of years so far behind us,
	Far in the long dim regions of the past,
And of the footprints left that oft remind us
	Of life's dim changes that are fleeting fast.

Man's careless steps have even now invaded
	These lonely plains and barren solitudes;
And from his mind the memories dim have faded,
	Yet o'er my soul the silent vision broods.

I seem to see the little band of wanderers,
	Driven from home, from kindred ties and friends,
Chilled by the frosts; or fainting in the sunshine,
	As slowly on their toilsome journey wends.

I seem to hear once more the wild coyote,
	Whose dismal walling rent the midnight air—
The little bands, as darkness closes around them,
	Bending their knees to say their evening prayers.

I often wonder where their steps have wandered,
	And where their homes, and what their fate has been;
And many times in silence I have pondered
	In silent thought o'er long forgotten scenes.

We meet, we part, and often in that parting
	We carry with us scenes of bygone days,
And many times we wist not of the smarting,
	As all have gone their own divided ways.

But oft the mind to the far past reverting
	Finds in the heart a dim and fading thought,
And memory's page some silent hour diverting,
	With early friends and transient scenes are fraught.


[Column 1]

	"No weapon that is formed against thee shall
prosper, and every tongue that shall rise
against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.
This is the heritage of the servants of the
Lord, and their righteousness is of me; saith the
Lord".—Isaiah, chapter 54, last verse.
	"What shall one then answer the messengers
of the nation? That the Lord hath founded
Zion, and the poor of His people shall trust in
her.—Isaiah, chapter 14, last verse."

	In my experience through life I have ob-
served in my own mind, and no doubt others
have noted the same, that under trials from
which we see no outlet, the mind acquires a
feeling of prescience and intuition of coming
events, and earnestly desires to entertain the
feeling and give return to it in all laudable
and innocent researches.
	Many years ago I had a dear old nurse, who,
though not an educated woman according to
the schools, was of a deep meditative mind;
was a great reader of the Scriptures, they be-
ing her whole library. She had a sweet,
spiritual mind, and a devout soul, without one
grain of Methodistical cant or hypocrisy of
any sort. I do not think she was of any par-
ticular church, though she occasionally at-
tended the Independent Methodist place of
worship; she would not have dared to receive

[Column 2]

the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, but, like
one of old, "stood afar off" admiring with
deep and holy reverence those who were so
privileged feeling. "Oh! how blessed are those
who can partake, but it is not for me." Some
of my readers may probably never have met
such a character, and hence they will be quite
unable to comprehend the beauty and extreme
piety of such a woman; indeed, she was by no
means a common character; she was one whom
the Savior would have loved, and, like Mary,
she would have followed Him even to the
cross.
	She read in the Epistles that on points of
doctrine on which she desired to be informed,
she was to "ask her husband at home;"
but alas! her husband might, with all propriety
have sat at her feet and been taught by her!
So, like many others, she "kept the even tenor
of her way," and did the best she could to
work out her salvation, and that, she realized,
seemed but very little towards making "her
calling and election sure," and I often realized
when she returned from meeting that her soul
had not been fed; I could even feel that she
was smiling "in her sleeve" at his nonsensical
talk, but she was too reverent and innately
pious to give vent to any criticisms. I would
sometimes read the Bible to her, and when fin-
ished, she would heave a sigh and say, in her
own peculiar tone, "Ah! what a fine thing it is
to be able to read and understand what you
read."
	One day we were somewhat in trouble, and
we were puzzled to know what we should do,
and she then said, "Well, when I feel that I
want to know if the Lord has a word for me
I take my Bible and ask Him to give me some
light through the action I am going to perform;
I then take a long needle, and I run it into
where I know the Psalms are, or into the New
Testament, and I have many times been struck
at the answers I have received."
	Upon that hint I have often taken the same
course, and, like my dear good nurse, have re-
ceived comfort and support.
	Once in a most remarkable manner I was in
much affliction through enemies; I believe the
only wicked enemies I ever had—(in Zion, too.)
My soul was indeed in deep waters; I almost
thought that I should be overwhelmed. I one
day left my work, shut all the doors, being
alone in the house, and knelt down and poured
out my whole heart to the Lord. I arose from
my knees without feeling much refreshed, and
again took up my needle work, and as I did so
my eyes fell on my little prayer book laying on
the table; it contained the Psalms of David; in
an instant my nurse came mentally before me,
and I remembered her sweet, childlike method
to get comfort when in trouble. I took up the
book, thrust in the needle, and lo! it rested on
the first verse of the thirty-seventh Psalm. I
read and re-read till I came to the tenth verse,
when I involuntarily threw up my hands and
said aloud, "Lord, this is revelation!" I
trembled as though an angel stood before me;
I realized it was the voice of God to me; it
struck every chord that had been drawn to
their utmost tension in my wounded soul, and
the vibration was joy, peace, and a conviction
that God was with me. Were I to live a
thousand years I should never forget the feel-
ings of that hour! I have lived to see every
word literally fulfilled of that glorious psalm;
the tenth and last verse remarkably so. I re-
quest my readers to read this psalm at once, for
they will see with me its potency. Many, many
times have I derived comfort and instruction
from this most simple process, and been sent
on my way rejoicing.
	A few days ago, feeling sad under the heavy
cloud we are under by our unjust oppressors,
the simple process came to my mind; I took
my little book and my needle, asking the Lord
to give me a word upon the present persecu-

[Column 3]

tions, and the needle rested upon the first verse
I have given at the top of this article. I tried
the second time, and the second verse was
given, and I could not resist the impulse of
giving it to the readers of the EXPONENT:
	"Let none smile and say with unjust judges,
It is superstition. The Lord hideth himself
from the self-righteous, and revealeth His
words to the meek and lowly who put their
trust in Him, and labor day by day to shew
faith by their works."
	I could give many more equally startling
answers to prayers, received by the same sim-
ple process. Remember, it is to the word of
God we look for aid, and from nothing lower
or inferior. Why has this holy book, the old-
est in the world, stood the test and the wonder-
ful vicissitudes it has passed through, these
many centuries, and been the stay and sheet-
anchor of so many generations, with its mighty
principles, its divine ethics, its consoling doc-
trines, its stupendous revelations and more than
I have language to elaborate. Why should
not the Christian have faith in it as the word
of God? not a dead, or abstract faith, but the
faith that will and can and does "remove
mountains" every day to the eye and under-
standing of those who have a living faith in
Him, such as the wise child has in its earthly
parent, knowing that even if he sees that re-
proof is needed, that it is in love and for his
advancement in wisdom, knowledge and un-
derstanding. Let us, then, be meek and sim-
ple and confiding as the child, for the Savior
said such was the type of the kingdom of hea-
ven. How simple were the means which the
Savior used in some of his greatest and grand-
est miracles; it is the prayerful, the humble
and the faithful spirit that by simple means
calls down the divine aid and needed blessing
in the often trying hour, when "man's extrem-
ity is God's opportunity." The faith of the
Latter-day Saints is the faith "once delivered
to the Saints," and they realize that God is
with them, that Christ is their Captain, that
their religion is "the everlasting Gospel" that
He instituted, and of which He said "the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it."
		HANNAH T. KING.


We are governed, to a great extent, by the
company we keep. If our associates are in-
temperate, licentious, or immoral, we cannot
be pure; and the wretch must be lost, indeed,
who comes in contact with the innocent and
godly, unawed by their presence. Thus it is
with our reading. We should shun bad books
as we would bad company. Our reading al-
ways leaves an impression on our minds, and
if it does not, the time spent in reading is
worse than lost.
	In house-furnishing a little money and a
good deal of taste go much farther than a
little taste and a good deal of money. The
first rule, and a most important one, is to go
slowly. Learn what you want, and, having
decided this question, never accept anything
else until all possible expedients are exhausted
for procuring it. Do without until the mo-
ment of absolute necessity rather than accept
unsatisfactory substitutes. More houses are
spoiled because their owners fill them with tem-
porary fittings which they afterwards have not
the means and the enterprise to get rid of than
by any other cause. For people of small in-
comes the only safe rule is to get only the ab-
solutely indispensable articles at first, adding
to the store from time to time one really good
article after another as opportunities offer. In
this way surprisingly good results may be ob-
tained with a cost so gradual as not to be ma-
terially felt; and, if nothing is purchased
which is not really good, whatever is bought
holds its own with later acquisitions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	March 1, 1886.


[Column 1]

﻿THE LADIES' MASS MEETING.

"MORMON" WOMEN MEET, SPEAK AND RESOLVE.

	For some time past a movement has been on
foot to give the women of Utah an opportunity of
expressing in some public and emphatic manner,
their feelings regarding the indignities and the
sufferings they are made to endure in the present
crusade against the Mormon people. In the
whole history of America there cannot be found
a parallel to the infamous methods by which the
enforcement of special and oppressive legislation
against the Saints has and is sought to be accom-
plished. Not only have the men, who for
obeying a principle of their religion are declared
to be violators of law, been made to suffer the ex-
traordinary and unhallowed proceedings inaugu-
rated against them under its form and in its name;
but their wives, their children and their relatives
have been hauled before inquisitorial grand juries,
plied with shamefully indecent questions,
threatened with punishment for contempt if they
refused to answer, and in some cases actually im-
prisoned for such refusal. Defenseless women
have at the risk of their lives been dragged before
courts or juries, frequently escorted thither by
wretches whose touch they would regard as pollu-
tion. Even the sacred relation of husband and
wife and the exemption from testifying one against
the other has been trampled upon, and each day
sees new insults and greater indignities heaped
upon us.
	Under these circumstances it was natural that
a spontaneous feeling should manifest itself to
give expression to our sentiments. The culmina-
tion of this desire was found in the crowded and
enthusiastic gathering of representative women
which filled the Salt Lake Theatre, Saturday after-
noon, March the 6th. Everywhere was manifested
a deep, subdued emotion, and heartfelt sincerity
characterized every utterance. A tolerably com-
plete report of the proceedings, which we are
able to furnish, shows nothing which can be con-
strued as defiance, but everything which savors of
courage, patriotism and true womanhood.
	The 16th Ward brass band played choice selec-
tions while the people were being seated, and at the
appointed hour, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, in a few
appropriate remarks, called the meeting to order.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt nominated Mrs. M. I.
Horne to preside, and the lady received the unani-
mous endorsement of the vast assemblage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Jane Richards, Mrs. Priscilla Staines and
Mrs. Pitchforth were unanimously elected vice-
presidents.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard was nominated for
secretary, and Miss Nellie Colebrook and Mrs.
Cornelia Clayton as assistant secretaries. These
ladies were unanimously elected.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young was elected chaplain.
	After singing by the Tabernacle choir, prayer
was offered by Mrs. Zina D. Young. Singing by
the choir.

[Column 2]

	Prest. M. I. Horne expressed the regrets of
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith at not being able to be
present, but stated that she was heart and soul in
the movement.
	Prest. Horne said it was with feelings of sorrow
that she contemplated the occasion which called
forth the necessity for a protest against the wrongs
heaped upon "Mormon" men and women, be-
cause of their obedience to the law of God. The
nation could with more consistency legislate
against the Catholics for their belief in celibacy
than against the "Mormons" for obeying the first
great commandment, "Be fruitful and multiply."
It was a duty of the Saints to appeal to rulers, and
if disregarded God would avenge them. Presi-
dent Van Buren had told the Prophet Joseph his
cause was just, but the nation could do nothing for
his people, and the nation had been vexed ever
since. Men were now sent to jail because they
would not promise to renounce their wives and
children, and the women of the Latter-day Saints
could not longer submit in peace to this, and to
the insults offered their sisters in the courts. They
could not longer go on without protesting against
continued adverse legislation. They could not
come down to the level of those who degraded
women, but would continue in the service of God,
and trust in Him.
	The following committee on resolutions was ap-
pointed on motion of Dr. R. B. Pratt: Dr. R. B.
Pratt, Mrs. Fanny Thatcher, Mrs. Edna Smith, of
Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. Tanner, of Provo, and
Mrs. H. C. Brown, of Ogden.
	MRS. PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL
was called and spoke as follows:
MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	I stand before you a native born citizen of the
United States. My grandfather fought in the
revolutionary war to establish a free government
on this continent, and my father fought in the
war of 1812 to secure and perpetuate a free gov-
ernment and to protect the rights and liberties of
the citizens of the republic. I, their descendant,
now stand up before this assembly to protest
against the oppression of those who would take
rom us the rights and liberties which our fathers
risked their lives to obtain. What would our
fathers say, the founders of this republic, if they
could rise from their graves and see the glorious
Constitution which they framed and bequeathed
to all future generations, as the palladium of liber-
ty, overridden and downtrodden by demagogues
and torn to fragments by the schemes of corrupt
men, whose object is to oppress and injure the
helpless. 
	We came out from the United States to this
desert and mountainous country, that we might
worship God according to the dictates of our con-
sciences.
	We had broken no laws of God or man. We
had committed no crimes, but we were driven
from our homes by angry mobs because we de-
sired to worship God in the way that had been re-
vealed to us. We made our homes in these
mountains and have lived here loyal and law-abid-
ing citizens. 
	Now, nearly at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury we find the horrors of the inquisition revived
from our destruction—free-born, pure-minded, and
delicate women are brought before a cruel and
corrupt court, by lewd and debauched deputies;
insulted and brow-beaten by base and malicious
officials, and if in obedience to their pure and
noble womanhood, they refuse to answer the in-
decent questions, they are threatened with im-
prisoument in the Utah Penitentiary, where mur-
derers and horse thieves are incarcerated, there to
pay the penalty of contempt of court.
	Oh, liberty and justice, where is their dwelling
place!
	I feel it is time for the ladies of Zion to arise.

[Column 3]

Our cause is just. We have broken no law of
God or man, but we know by exporience what the
present crusade means. We will be true to God
and live lives of purity. 
	Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton read the following
address by
	MRS. H. C. BROWN.
DEAR FRIENDS:
	We have met to-day to unite our voices in pro-
testing against the cruel enforcement of special
legislative enactments brought to bear upon us as a
people, and we appeal to every honest mind and
heart to use their influence to stay the shameful
proceedings by which pretended courts of justice
are converted into courts of inquisition. That
honest, virtuous, Christian women may no longer
be subjected to insult and abuse, nor have every
feeling of parental and conjugal love, and every
sense of religious duty, outraged and trampled
upon.
	We are here, not as Latter-day Saints, but as
American citizens—members of that great com-
mon wealth which our noble grandsires fought and
bled to establish—legal heirs to those rights and
privileges bequeathed by that heaven-inspired
document—the Constitution of these United
States. Yes, legal heirs, yet illegally, unconstitu-
tionally deprived of that dearest, most cherished
of all rights—freedom to worship God according
to the dictates of our own consciences.
	And this within the limits of a government
founded upod religious liberty. This in a nation
whose legislators point proudly to the brave Pil-
grim Fathers and mothers as their ancestors—
and then turn to crush their fellow creatures—de-
scendents of the same noble parentage.
	O consistency, where art thou fled? O Justice,
surely thy face must hide itself in shame, when
loyal men and women are denied the right of
citizenship, because, forsooth, they . would serve
God and fear Him rather than man. 
	Once again, we protest against the unjust de-
signs and unlawful enactments of unscrupulous
men, blinded by selfish ambition to all the best in-
terests of our government as well as to their own
eternal welfare.
	And we would say to them and to the world—
that, rather than forego one principle of our holy
religion—rather than yield the right to act upon
our own convictions of duty, we would, if need
be, endure exile or imprisonment, or whatever
our Heavenly Father may see fit in His wisdom to
require of us; and, like the Saints of former days,
suffer rather than accept deliverance, that we may
inherit a more exceeding and eternal weight of
glory.
	   DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON
said the wrongs against which those assembled
now protested were such as would have put to
blush the civilization of two centuries ago. While
the statue of liberty was being erected women
were here sent to jail for no crime, and the purest
and best women in the country now raised their
voice against the outrage. Sixteen years ago the
women of Utah were granted the right of suffrage,
and it was whispered that they would break the
bands which were supposed to bind them. The
women of Utah had proven true and had never
cast an unrighteous ballot. They voted for men
who were pure, honorable and upright. The gov-
ernment now seemed to think it premature that
the women were allowed to vote, and were en-
deavoring to deprive them of that right, not be-
cause they had committed crime, but because they
believed in the revelations of God. It was urged
that the women in Utah were coerced. No mem-
ber of Congress would dare witness what was here 
to-day and reiterate such a falsehood. "Priestly
dictation" was prated about, but nothing was said
of the Catholics, who voted as their priest directed.
This was the battle-field between truth and error.


[Column 1]
The Saints were loyal citizens,  industrious and
honest, but they were being oppressed because
they belonged to an unpopular class. The Presi-
dent of the United States asked for fairness for
the Chinese, but had never asked justice fo r the
"Mormons." Under the nation's law, the seducer
and destroyer had no fear of a deputy, as "birds
of a feather flocked together." But honorable
"Mormons" were dogged and watched by "spot-
ters," and these acts were approved by Americans.
She had felt that America was an asylum for all
—but the "Mormons." They were to-day in the
same position as the American patriots 126 years 
ago. England oppressed the patriots, and refused
redress; they took their liberty by force of arms.
Their descendents are now the oppressors, and
the "Mormons" the oppressed. And now these
chains of tyranny were to be welded closer by
taking from the women of Utah, the ballot, which
they had never used but in the promotion of
honor, virtue, and good to all. May the day never
come when they will be deprived of the ballot.
The nation should call a halt and remember vox
populi, vox Dei. There will come a day when
those engaged in this crusade will bitterly repent
their treatment of the "Mormons," which is un-
justifiable. The "Mormons," would adhere to
their religion, which was from God. Test oaths
would not move them. The enemies of "Mor-
monism" desired to sweep it from the face of the
earth; but the work was God's, and they could
not do it. 
	The committee on resolutions reported the fol-
lowing, which were unanimously adopted:

PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE WOMEN
	OF UTAH IN MASS MEETING ASSEMBLED:

	Whereas, The rights and liberties of women are
placed in jeopardy by the present cruel and inhu-
man proceedings in the Utah courts, and in the
contemplated measure in Congress to deprive the
women voters in Utah of the elective franchise;
and,
	Whereas, Womanhood is outraged by the com-
pulsion used in the courts of Utah to force
mothers on pain of imprisonment to disclose their
personal condition and that of their friends in re-
lation to anticipated maternity, and to give informa-
tion as to the fathers of their children; and,
	Whereas, These violations of decency  have now
reached the length of compelling legal wives to
testify against their husbands without their con-
sent, in violation both of written statutes and the
provisions of the common law, therefore, be it
	Resolved, By the women of Utah in mass meet-
ing assembled, that the suffrage, originally con-
ferred upon us as a political privilege, has become
a vested right by possession and usage for fifteen
years, and that we protest against being deprived
of that right without process of law, and for no
other reason than that we do not vote to suit our
political opponents. 
	Resolved, That we emphatically deny the charge
that we vote otherwise that according to our own
free choice, and point to the fact that the ballot is
absolutely secret in Utah as proof that we are pro-
tected in voting for whom and what we choose
with perfect liberty.
	Resolved, That as no wife of a polygamist, legal
or plural, is permitted to vote under the laws of
the United States to deprive non-polygamous
women of the suffrage, is high-hand oppression
for which no valid excuse can be offered.
	Resolved, That the questions concerning their 
personal condition, the relationship they bear to
men marked down as victims to special law, and
the paternity of their born and unborn children
which have been put to women before grand juries
and in open courts in Utah, are an insult to pure
womanhood, an outrage upon the senstitive feel-
ings of our sex and a disgrace to officers and
judges who have propounded and enforced them.
	Reslolved, That we honor those noble women who,
standing upon their rights and refusing to reply
to improper and insulting questions such as no
true man nor any court with any regard for pro-
priety would compel them to answer, have gone
to prison and suffered punishment without crime,
rather than betray the most sacred confidence and 
yield to the brutal mandates of a little brief
authority.
	Resolved, That the action of the district Attor-
ney and the Chief Jnstice of Utah in compelling
a lawful wife to testify for the prosecution in a

[Column 2]
criminal case involving the liberty of her hus-
band and in face of her own earnest protest, is a
violation of laws which those officials have sworn
to uphold, is contrary to precedent and usage for
many centuries, and is an invasion of family
rights and of that union between husband and
wife which both law and religion have held sacred
from time immemorial.
	Resolved, That we express our profound ap-
preciation of the moral courage exhibited by
Senators Call, Morgan, Teller, Brown and others,
and also by Mrs. Belva H. Lockwood, who in
the face of almost overwhelming prejudice, have
defended the constitutional rights of the people
of Utah.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt thanks
to the ladies of the Woman Suffrage Association
assembled in Boston, and unite in praying that
God may speed the day when both men and 
women shall shake from their shoulders the yoke
of tryranny.
	Resolved, That we call upon the wives and
mothers of the United States to come to our help
in resisting these encroachments upon our liber-
ties and these outrages upon our peaceful homes
and family relations, and that a committee be
appointed at this meeting to memoralize the
President and Congress of the United States in
relation to our wrongs, and to take all necessary
measures to present our views and feelings to the
contrary.
	To be coutinued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A SELECTION from Mrs. Augusta Joyce Croch-
eron's "Wild Flowers of Deseret," was recited in
one of the high schools of Hamilton Co., O.
	THE present issue of the EXPONENT is for
unavoidable reasons several days late. We are
confident, however, that our readers will excuse
the delay when they recognize our desire to ob-
tain as much of the Mass Meeting proceedings as
possible.
	The Legislative Assembly of Utah, which has
nearly finished the allotted term of its biennial
session, has so far received for its labor nothing
except executive disapproval of every bill on
which the Governor has deigned to make a reply
at all; and in nearly every case he has coupled
his veto with railing accusation against and de-
liberate insult to the people and their representa-
tives. What a burlesque on American institutions
that one stupid official, because enveloped in the
mantle of executive authority, can defeat the will
of a whole community!


THE Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. will
please forward reports as quickly as possible to
Louie M. Wells, EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
		ELMINA S. TAYLOR, Prest.
		LOUIE M. WELLS, Sec.

	THE Relief Society conference of this Stake will
be held on Thursday, March 18th, 1886, in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, commencing at
10 o'clock a.m. A full attendance is particularly
requested.
		M. I. HORNE, Prest.,
		E. HOWARD, Sec.


[Column 1]

OUR CHILDREN.

	I felt sorry for a young mother, and her chubby
urchin, too, whom I happened to see passing
through the trying ordeal of getting the child's
face washed. The little one was in open rebellion,
kicking and screaming, while his mother scrubbed
away at his face and ears with great diligence, at
the same time scolding and threatening him in an
excited and exciting manner.
	"It is such a trouble to wash children," she re-
marked to me.
	"Yes," I replied, "but I see no necessity for so
much trouble as you seem to have. Mine do not
give me half so much, though I presume they
would if I managed them as you do yours."

[Column 2]

	"Why, then, how do you manage yours? Do
please tell me," she said imploringly.
	"To be frank, then," I answered, "let me first
tell you how I think you mismanage yours. You
go to work on his face and ears as though you
were scrubbing a floor or polishing a brass bucket.
Do you not suppose it hurts him very much? It
would me."
	"Well, but I must get the dirt off from him
while I'm about it," she said with a faint smile.
	"It does not require such rubbing and digging
as that, though," I responded. "If mine were so
very dirty I would put water on and let them soak
awhile, till the dirt would come off easily."
	"But I can't spend time for that," she said.
	"It would take but little if any more of your
time, and not nearly so much of your strength as
the struggle you have just been having; besides,
it would be teaching your child to be more gentle,
and more willing to yield to your wishes," I ex-
plained. And then I told her how, when bathing
my little ones, I tried to give my mind to it, and
make the task as agreeable as possible, both to
them and myself, never missing an opportunity for
instructing them on any principle that might be
brought up in our conversation, and wound up by
relating a pleasing Saturday morning's experience,
which occurred with myself and my little boys a
few weeks since.
	The young mother was delighted with my story,
which I gave somewhat in the form of a dialogue,
and being a great admirer of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, she insisted that I ought to write it for
that paper, that it might be a benefit to many
others like herself; and so, acting upon her sug-
gestion, here it is:

SATURDAY MORNING.
	Willie. (in the bath) "I don't want my head
washed, mother."
	Mother. "Oh! yes; your head needs to be
clean as well as the rest of your body. You can't
think so well if it is not. Don't you know that
when your eyes are not washed clean you can't
see so well as you can when they are?"
	Willie. "Yes, ma'am."
	Mother. "Well, when your head is not washed
and clean, you cannot think so well, either."
	Willie, (wonderingly). "Do we think with our
hair?"
	Mother, (laughingly). "No! In thinking we
use our brains, and the brain lies just under the
scalp, which is the covering to the head. The
hair does not sense anything. You know when
your hair is cut you do not feel it."
	Willie. "I don't feel it when my hair is cut, but
when it is pulled it hurts."
	Mother. "It hurts you, but it is your head that
feels the hurt, not your hair. I have rubbed your
head well, now you must keep your eyes shut
while I wash off the soap."
	Willie. "I'll keep my eyes shut and my mouth,
too."
	Mother. "That's right. Now I'll dip the cloth
in cold water, and rince your head and neck, so
you will not take cold."
	Willie. "All right; I'll be brave and not hol-
low."
	Mother. "That's a good boy. I'll wipe your
head and hair as dry as I can with a warm towel,
especially about your ears, and you must not go
out into the wintry air until they are quite dry.
There, now my little boys are all bathed, and are
clean and sweet."
	Lee. "Now won't you please read to us from
the Instructor mother?"
	Mother. "Yes, I can read to you while I nurse
the baby."
	Lee (handing the paper). "Please read about
Caesar and the lion."
	Mother reads, as requested, without interruption,
until she finishes the sentence, "He was descend-
ed from a noble line of ancestry"——


Lee. "What does that mean, mother?"
	Mother. "It means that his forefathers were
rich and great."
	Willie (in surprise). "Did he have four
fathers?"
	Mother (laughing). "Not four in number, Willie.
When we speak of a man's forefathers, we mean
his grandfathers and his great grandfathers and
their fathers, and so on, back through generations
that have lived before him."
	Willie. "Oh! yes; I see what you mean now!"
	Mother. "Think you can remember it?"
	Willie. "I'll try to."
	Lee. "Please read on now, mother."
	Mother. "I will finish this story, and then
baby must go in the cradle and I must go to work."
		LULA.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


CHEERFULNESS.

	Who would not be beloved and beautiful? I
believe I can truthfully say there are none who
have not this desire. Some say the desire to
please is selfish; so it is, and we are all selfish.
Some who have not good judgment go too far, and
try to please all. This is indeed a fault. To be
agreeable and pleasant we do not necessarily
have to yield to others and should never do so,
when we feel that we are in the right; but in little
things it is often a positive pleasure to yield. But
how often have bad habits been formed by giving
way because we wish to be agreeable; how often
do we hear it said, "Yes, I took a drink because I
wanted to be agreeable; then the boys all make
light of you if you refuse," and it is so with most
bad habits. Who could admire one who would go
to such extremes to "be agreeable?" No one;
the person is certainly weak, and although per-
haps good natured and pleasant, you cannot ad-
mire him as one who knows right from wrong, and
uses his own good judgment instead of being led
by others.
	We all know right from wrong. God has blessed
us with this knowledge, and even those who deny
Him have that knowledge within their breast, and
there it remains in spite of their every effort to
destroy it. This is a beautiful world that God has
given us, and we all have our own little part to
perform. Shall we be cheerful, bright and pleas-
ant, and scatter joy and love about us, forget our
little sorrows and perplexities to wipe away tears
from some beautiful eyes and cheer some sad
hearts that have been burdened with cares? Oh,
if we would all try, what a beautiful world it would
be! God would smile upon us, and angels watch
over us. Then we would be indeed beloved and
beautiful.
	How blessed is a home with a sweet, cheerful
mother. 'Tis hard sometimes for anxious, nervous
mothers to be cheerful, but there is not much
gained by being cross and gloomy. Each unkind
word makes us feel more nervous and tired, and
after spoken what harsh, hard feelings they leave
in the breast. All thrive in a cheerful atmosphere.
How tired we all feel after a long, cold winter, and
how blissful are the first bright days of sunshine.
Just as the buds expand and grow under the
bright sunlight, do our souls grow and become
beautiful by the sunshine of cheerfulness.
		GIPSY.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	49 SABINA ST. Nottingham,
		Feb. 4th, 1886.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In visiting the various branches composing
the Nottingham Conference, I find an excel-
lent spirit prevailing amongst the Saints gener-
ally, and often do we hear kind words of
sympathy for our brethren and sisters who
are undergoing persecution in the land of Zion.


I sometimes have the pleasure of meeting with
the sisters in their Relief Society meetings,
there being three organizations in this confer-
ence. The members are actively and ener-
getically engaged in doing good. The society
at New Brimsley is the oldest, with Sister
Merab Wharmby as President, organized by
Elder James Eardly, Nov. 23rd, 1884. The
Mansfield Society, organized by Elder James
Eardly, May 17th, 1885, with Sister Caroline
Cooper, President, and the Nottingham So-
ciety, organized by Elder M. L. Pratt, with
Sister Lydia Burrows, President.
	We have six Sunday Schools, four Mutual
Improvement Associations, and all are in
good working order. I have been telling the
sisters about your valuable paper, the EXPON-
ENT—what excellent reading is found in its
columns, and how ably it represents the inter-
ests of the women of Utah. I am sure if
times were not so hard, and so many out of
work here, that there would be several sub-
scribers for your paper.
	The people who are Saints here are very,
very poor, and are praying for the time to
come when they may be delivered from old
Babylon, realizing more every day that this is
not the place for Latter-day Saints to live.
	Wishing a happy and prosperous year to the
EXPONENT, and ever praying for the welfare
of the daughters of Zion, I am,
	Your brother in the Gospel,
		M. L. PRATT.


WORDS OF CHEER FROM A
FRIEND.

DEAR LITTLE EXPONENT:
	Let us have a moment's chat together. One
of your friends says that she fears I do not
scan your pages with careful interest." Now,
dear little friend, we know that she is mistaken,
do we not? We know that every word is read,
even the death notices, although the person be
a stranger, I read the tributes of love, and
sometimes imagine myself at the funerals
mingling my tears of sympathy with the be-
reaved.
	Yes, every word of the little paper is read,
and when I come across an article of special
interest in an old paper, I enjoy the pleasure
of again reading it. The Christian Standard
comes to me regularly—I get the Chautauquan
once a month, Brights Journal, Commercial
Gazette, Evening Post, etc. all of which are
something put aside for a season, but the EX-
PONENT never—it is read and then carefully
filed away. All matters concerning the Mor-
mons have a great interest for me, and I am
laughingly called a "Mormon" among my
friends. Perhaps I fail to appreciate the full
extent of your anxieties and feelings, but I
cannot but feel a sympathy for you, and sin-
cerely wish that you could live in undisturbed
peace. Let us hope that good will come out
of these evil days.
	Sincerely yours,
		EMILY SCOTT.
	Ohio, Feb. 19th, 1886.


[Column 1]

BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, AND "MOR-
MON" MOTHERS.

	In a recent interview Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood, who is described as the "Queen of the
American Bar," is reported as saying some
good words for the much-abused "Mormons."
After relating how she came to be nominated
by the woman's rights people for the Presiden-
cy, she was asked concerning certain utterances
attributed to her by the Salt Lake Tribune,
which the lady denied, but went on to make
remarks which are reported as follows:

	"I have no objections to saying now that I

[Column 2]

do think that, as a rule, the Mormons are
ahead of the Gentiles in morals. In the first
place, a good Mormon does not drink, smoke,
chew, nor even use coffee and tea, nor frequent
saloons or other vile resorts." As to the Mor-
mon women, Mrs. Lockwood sturdily main-
tained that they are fully up to the standard
of intelligence and progressiveness; that each
is the head of her own house, governs her own
children, and is far more independent of men
than the Gentile women. Her opinion of the
Edmunds bill was asked. "I think it unjust
and revolutionary in the extreme," was the an-
swer. "Do not misunderstand me. I am a
thorough monogamist by education and belief,
and I think it must require a strong conviction
of religious duty on the part of any woman to
submit to the polygamous relation. But I do
not recognize the right of our government,
after allowing the system thirty-five years' ex-
istence, and permitting George Q. Cannon to
sit in Congress for years, to now threaten to
disfranchise both men and women, and confis-
cate their property, if they will not renounce
the relations of a lifetime which they conscien-
tiously believe to be an essential part of their
religious system. I believe in the suppression
of polygamy by law, but not through means
which are retroactive and subversive of Ameri-
can liberty."
	"Mrs. Lockwood struck at another of the
theories of the anti-Mormons, in saying that
the Mormons' children were the most beauti-
ful she had ever seen, and bright as a dollar.
"Every Mormon child is made welcome when
it enters the world; and as the Mormon
mother is taught that her rank in heaven will
depend on the number and quality of the
children she rears in this life, a perfect mother-
hood is developed. "I believe in criticising
and fighting polygamy on a true indictment,"
said the lady, "but the false tales that are cir-
culated around the country under the head of
'The Mormon Horror,' etc., are detestably
unfair."
	Mrs. Lockwood, like many other folks, is
somewhat mistaken about the "Mormon"
mothers being taught that "their rank in hea-
ven will depend upon the number and quality
of the children they rear in this life," but she
is right in the statement that children are "wel-
come" to the "Mormons," and are not des-
troyed, either before or after birth, by the mur-
derous methods that are common among very
pious women who figure in the anti-"Mormon"
movement, and who have no idea of the mar-
riage relation above lust without the responsi-
bilities that belong to true wifehood and
maternity. Mrs. Lockwood is a woman of
moral courage as well as great legal ability,
and is not afraid to say what she thinks to any-
one.
	Children well trained in the fear of God
and the practice of virtue, are an honor to
their mothers in this world, and will shine as
jewels in their crown and add much to their
glory, happiness and exaltation in the eternal
world, where all will be valued for what they
are, and shine with their own excellence or be
dimmed with their own shame.


AMEND THE UTAH BILL. 

EDITORS WOMAN'S JOURNAL: 
	All suffragists in States which have mem-
bers of the House of Representatives on the
Committee on Territories are earnestly reques-
ted to write at once and urge them to use their
utmost influence against the disfranchisement
of Utah women. That Committee consists 
of: 
	William H. Hill, Ohio; William M. Springer, 
Illinois; J. Thomas Spriggs, New York; 
Charles E. Boyle, Pennsylvania; George T. 
Barnes, Georgia; Thomas W. Sadler, Alabama;


William H. Perry, South Carolina; William
Damson, Missouri; Isaac S. Struble, Iowa;
Charles S. Baker, New York; William C.
Cooper, Ohio; Binger Herman, Oregon; George
D. Symes, Colorado; Anthony Joseph, New
Mexico.
	These gentlemen's postoffice address is,
"House of Representatives, Washington,
D. C."
	Suffragists in other States will please write
Mr. Hill, the chairman of the Committee, at
the above address, and thus enable the Com-
mittee to see how wide and strong is the opposi-
tion to the proposed wrong.
	As the Boston Record objects to my sugges-
tion that we should oppose Senator Edmunds's
re-election next year, let me say no one ob-
jects to him because of his opinions. We do
so because of his acts. It is one thing to hold
an opinion; quite another to force others to act
on that opinion. Mr. Edmunds's opinion in
favor of continuing the existing disfranchise-
ment of women might be overlooked; his dis-
graceful suggestion that women cannot be
voters without degrading themselves might be
pardoned; his dogged efforts to prevent women
from earning an honest living at the bar (on
which issue we beat him two to one in the U.
S. Senate) might be forgiven; but his effort to
take the suffrage away from non-polygamous
women who have had the legal right for half
a generation, and in whom that right has be-
come vested, is unpardonable. Mr. Edmunds,
as a lawyer, knows that this vested right can-
not be rightfully taken away, and that if this
is done, it will be a sheer act of despotism, as
well as the infliction of an odious penalty, dis-
franchisement, on citizens who have committed
no crime.
	Let me add that, during a long residence in
Washington, in which I saw considerable of
Mr. Edmunds, I did not discover the high
qualities claimed for him.
		HAMILTON WILLCOX.
	New York.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISS CLEVELAND'S RECEPTION. 

	SOME OF ITS PECULIARITIES NOTED BY A
	WIDEAWAKE CORRESPONDENT. 

	Miss Cleveland held her first from 3 to 4
o'clock afternoon receptions on Tuesday. These 
are perfectly informal so far as aught at the
White House can lack stateliness. One of the 
doors from the vestibule into the red corridor 
stands open, with a man in attendance. Cards
are left in the vestibule for record, and the
visitor is announced at the door of the Red
Parlor. This room with its furnishings lends
itself delightfully to cosy tete-a-tete. The
sumptuous gold and crimson upholsteries, the
glow from the open coal fire, the soft light
coming through partially drawn curtains, and
low chandeliers, with the fragrance of flowers, 
make the ensemble deliciously sensuous. Miss
Cleveland greets each comer with an easy 
grace, and with that remarkable smile extends
her hand. Her dress is of black silk, demi-
train, with berthe and panels of heavy jet pas-
sementerie, narrow frills of lace in neck and
at her hands, and at her throat a single crisp,
half-blown pink tea rose with its leaves
nestled. 
	Miss Cleveland sits down with the latest ar-
rival and, like ordinary mortals, talks about
the weather. "I make it a religious duty," 
she said, "to spend some time out of doors
every day. Yes, I ride; but after the gates
are closed, between the daylight and the dark-
ness, I take a walk about the grounds. I en-
joy deeply the beauty of the sky and the glory 
of the sunsets we have here and the views
from the windows. I enjoyed the New Year
reception very much. I like my life here, be-
cause it gives me the opportunity to meet so


many interesting people. I was a little tired
on last Friday, as we stood until a very few
minutes before the close of the reception. The
ladies would not be excused while I remained;
so, as I knew they had yet to stand several
hours at their own houses in the afternoon, I
withdrew with them at 2 o'clock. Our duties
here are those of no sinecure. The housekeep-
ing duties are exacting, and show no inclina-
tion toward a state of perfection in machinery
in which the household might run itself."
	Thus Miss Cleveland, pleasantly changing
auditors constantly and saying just the inter-
esting thing to each person. "I hope to meet
you again," to Lieutenant and Mrs. Winthrop,
who were saying good-by before leaving for
San Francisco. "The President received a
quantity of sheet music, which I have not had
time to examine. I will send it to you if you
think it would be of interest," she said to Prof.
Sousa, of the Marine Band, who called to pay
his respects.
	"I have not read the book sufficiently to
talk about its point," she said of a recent
publication, "but I think the author gets at the
hearts of the people."
	In speaking of her brother Miss Cleveland
says "The President." She introduces each
one who comes in to everybody else, and, this
hour at the White House being her own institu-
tion, is likely to prove the most charming of
Miss Cleveland's social life to all concerned.


DON'T WORRY.

	"She has always magnified little troubles,"
was said of one suffering the torments of acute
melancholia. What a warning in those few
words, emphasized by looking into the wretched,
worn and weary face of her who had once been
called "the prettiest girl in town."
	She magnified little troubles! What serious
troubles they have at last become, threatening
reason if not life itself! Her sickness, like
that of many another sufferer, is cumulative
and largely self-imposed. She began life by
taking deeply to heart every little vexatious
thing, allowing disappointments, even in trifles,
to sadden and depress her, giving way to "the
blues" and fretting over the veriest nothings,
until in the course of the fast-flying years they
have piled themselves into a huge mountain
of difficulties which rest an immovable load
upon her own heart.
	Socrates said how truly, that we each carry
about a daemon, and the Scriptural record of
demoniacal possession is no fable. How do we
live with our daemon, that is the question. Is
it our "divinity" or our "evil spirit?" Do we
assert our intelligence and hold him to his
place of service, controlling ourselves even
when harassed almost beyond endurance; or
do we yield to each petty trial and annoyance,
fret over every insignificant trifle, and worry
until the habit becomes a second nature?

"This way madness lies."

	Think of it at every fretful, discontented
word. Think of it when you feel worried, and
shrink from forming the habit as from contact
with a deadly serpent. Cultivate the grace of
taking life easy. "To bear is to conquer our
fate." We have but a day to live at a time.
Who cannot easily be gracious and forbear-
ing and gentle for a single day. At least we
can live uncomplainingly. The Mexican
mother whispers over the cradle of her new
born babe, "Child, thou art born to suffer, en-
dure and hold thy peace."
	If we take life in tragic seriousness, magnify-
ing the little troubles, how hard and unbeauti-
ful, and oftentimes bitter we make it for our-
selves and others; but if on the contrary we
bring to each day's experience a determination
to be serene, to be cheerful and courageous, to
be self-forgetting and helpful to others, life be-


comes a beautiful blessing to us and all men,
for "a merry heart doeth good like a medicine,
but grief drieth the bones."


TO PRESERVE RECIPES.

	"What is the best way of keeping recipes so
that one does not have to hunt through masses
of newspaper clippings?" asks a correspon-
dent.
	A blank book bound in stiff boards or mus-
lin, and divided into sections, is the best and
most convenient form. An index is written
thus: "Soup," "sauces," "fish," "meat," "vege-
tables," "game," "dessert," "cakes," "bread,"
"beverages," "sundries." These main divis-
ions may be subdivided as desired. Allot a
certain number of pages to each main division,
giving the proper heading in the body of the
book. As each recipe is tried, copy it neatly
into the book under its proper heading. The
printed recipe could be pasted in the book, but
it does not look so neat as fair writing. Index
each recipe under its proper heading in the
general index, and there will be no trouble in
finding it. Under "sundries" write any practi-
cal suggestions with regard to household mat-
ters. Such a book is of the greatest assistance
to a housekeeper, for it presents in succinct
form her actual experience, and enables her to
prepare her weekly bill of fare with the great-
est ease.—Louisville Courier-Journal.


Miss Alice C. Fletcher addressed the Melrose
Women's Club, lately on the Indian question.
Miss Fletcher went among the Indians to
prosecute her archaeological studies, and re-
turns to the States fired with the same apostolic
ardor which made Helen Jackson write "Ra-
mona" and "A Century of Dishonor." Miss
Fletcher's lecture converted a good many peo-
ple to a fuller belief in the wrongs of the
Indians, and the bad faith of government
officials in their dealing with them.
	Recently a monument has been erected in
Annaberg, Saxony, to the memory of Frau
Barbara Uttman, in recognition of the great
service rendered to the working women of
Saxony more than three hundred years ago,
when great distress was prevailing on account
of lack of work. Barbara Uttman made a
journey to Brussels and learned lace-making,
making a specialty of point-lace; then return-
ing to Annaberg she instructed her fellow-
workwomen in this art, and so relieved a great
deal of suffering. The monument is a drink-
ing fountain surmounted by a statue of Mrs.
Uttman in the German dress of the middle of
the sixteenth century. This is about the first
public recognition of woman's worth that has
been made in Germany.
	A very interesting discovery has been made
in England, in the crypt of Winchester Cathe-
dral, in which excavations are being carried on
by the direction of Dr. Kitchen, the dean, to
restore the crypts to their ancient proportions
by removing modern accumulations of earth.
In a mass of masonry just under the groined
arch of the fifteen-century Lady Chapel a
leaden coffin, enclosing a wooden one, was
found, and in the latter was the skeleton of
Bishop Peter Courtenay, this fact being estab-
lished by the coat of Arms at the foot of the
cross cast on the coffin lid. This Bishop, in
the troubles of Richard the Third's reign, was
a Lancastrian and an exile with his brother in
the cause of Henry Tudor; after the battle of
Bosworth they returned, and the Bishop was
subsequently translated from Oxford to Win-
chester. He died in 1492. He gave the great
bell "Peter" to Exeter Cathedral (since recast),
and he was an ancester of the present Earl of
Devon. The restoration of the great Norman
crypts of the Cathedral is exciting great inter-
est among the antiquarians.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


All accumulation, whether of money, or
knowledge, or experience, may be thus tested.
If it is simply saved, hoarded, and counted for
itself, it is of little worth; but, if it develops
continually into something higher and nobler,
if it be willing to lose itself, if need be, in
what it is able to bring forth, if it be the
source of power, character, happiness, and life,
it is honorable and valuable.
	All things are engaged in writing their his-
tory. The planet goes attended by its shadow;
the rolling rock leaves scratches on the moun-
tain; the river its channel in the soil; the ani-
mal its bones in the stratum; the fern and leaf
their modest epitaph in the coal; the falling
drop makes its impress in the sand or the
stone; not a footstep in the snow or along the
ground but prints in characters more or less
lasting, the map of its march; every act of the
man inscribes itself on the memory of his fel-
lows and in his own manners and face. The
air is full of sounds, the sky of tokens; the
ground is memoranda or signatures, and every
object is covered with hints that speak to the
intelligent.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A square sofa pillow of black satin is effective, powdered
with white daisies wrought in filo floss. Finish the edge of
the cushion with large yellow beads, and decorate one
corner with a large yellow satin bow.
	Sew a coarse flannel over the bowl of a broken goblet.
Wet the flannel, and sprinkle it with as much flax seed, or
canary seed, as will stick. Set this in a glass dish of water
in a warm room. As the water soaks into the flannel, add
more. In two weeks you will have a most beautiful center
ornament for the table.
	Pears.—Small pears, which show no tendency to ripen,
may be converted into a delicious dessert dish for winter
months by stewing them for an hour or two, according to
their size, in syrup flavored with cloves and cinnamon.
The syrup is made of three pounds of sugar to a pint and
a half of water. The pears must be peeled and left whole,
and there should be hardly sufficient syrup to cover them,
as the juice from the pears will add to the syrup. Let them
boil quickly, and cover the jars well from the air.
	It is almost impossible to prevent a little shrinkage of
flannels in washing, unless the articles are dried on forms.
Prepare hot suds before hand, and agitate the articles in it
without rubbing; then squeeze, not wring out, and dry
quickly. The patent clothes-wringers are an improvement
upon hand-labor, as, without injury to the fabric, they
squeeze out the water so thoroughly that the article dries
in considerably less time than it would do after the mos
thorough hand-wringing.
	Madeira Cake.—Mix three heaped teaspoonfuls of
baking-powder in one pound of fine flour, rub in a quarter
of a pound of butter or lard; mix in a quarter of a pound
of castor sugar, a little ground carraway seed, cinnamon,
grated lemon-peel, or any flavor preferred, and, if liked,
add some chopped currants. When ready to bake, stir in
as quickly as possible two well-beaten eggs mixed with a
half a pint of milk; put into buttered tins and bake in a
hot oven. This ought to make four cakes about the size of
shilling pound-cakes.
	To Preserve Fruit and Flowers.—Fruit and flowers may
be preserved from decay and fading by immersing them in
a solution of gum arabic water two or three times, waiting
a sufficient time between each insertion to allow the gum to
dry. By this process the surface of the fruit is covered
with a thin coat of gum, which in entirely impervious to
the air, and thus prevents the decay of the fruit ro the
withering of the flowers. Roses thus preserved have all
the beauty of freshly plucked ones, though they had been
plucked several months. It is reliable, and something all
may try.
	Test for Alum in Bread.—The best rough test for alum
in bread is the logwood test. The process, as applied to
bread is very simple. The tincture of logwood and solu-
tion of carbonate of ammonia are used. A teaspoonful of
each is mixed with a wineglassful of water, and in this a
piece of the crumb of bread is soaked for about five


minutes. The bread is then removed and dried at a gentle
heat. If no alum be present, the bread dries to a dirty
brown color; if a little be present, the bread dries to at
lavendar color; if much alum be present, the bread dries to
a dark-blue color.
	Plum-Pudding.—The one secret of plum-pudding is
known to few—it is long boiling. If plum-pudding is half
boiled and allowed to get cold, no amount of after-boiling
can repair the damage; it will remain sodden and unwhole-
some to the end. When well boiled at first, it can be
made hot through, and be as good as ever. For a small
pudding, nine or ten hours', for a large one, twelve or
fourteen hours', fast boiling, without stopping, will ensure a
good pudding, even with no very rich materials. Without
this precaution, one made of the best materials will prove
a failure.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Fillmore City Jan. 28th, 1886, of membranous
croup, Wells R. son of Thomas C. and Alice M. Callister,
aged two years, one month and twenty-eight days.
		COM.

	ED, In Fillmore City, Feb. 14th, 1886, of membran
ous croup, John Franklin, son of John and Seraph Jack-
son, aged four years, four months and seventeen days.

	DIED, in Manti City, Sanpete County, Feb. 14th, 1886,
of a complication of diseases, Matilda Sophie Schramm
Alder, born September 10th, 1834, at Calio, Kingdom of
Wurtemberg, Germany. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by her brother, Elder
Charles C. Shramm, May 16th, 1863; immigratad to Utah
in 1864, and was married to John Alder March 4th, 1865.
Sister Alder was an exemplary, kind and good-hearted wife
and mother. After her husband's return from a mission to
Switzerland, she was called, in connection with him, to
labor in the St. George Temple, remaining there some
nine months. She was a faithful member of the Relief
Society, and lived and died faithful to her covenants, with
the hope of a glorious resurrection. She leaves a husband
and three children, relatives and many friends to mourn her
departure.
		ANNA KELLER, Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, The members of the Third Ward Relief Society of
Ogden, Utah, are with regret compelled to inform you of
the death of our beloved sister, Dinah Mary White, who
departed this life Jan. 28th, 1886, of typhoid fever, after
twenty-one days' illness, at her residence on Three Mile
Creek, Box Elder Co. She died firm in the faith, without
pain, conscious to the last, attended by her husband and
many loving friends. She was the daughter of John and
Mary Williams; was born July 19th, 1841, at Dunlan,
Flintshire, North Wales, and was married to Barnard
White March 7th, 1869. She had no children of her own,
but tenderly raised and cared for two families of motherless
children, who will honor and bless her memory.
	She was chosen President of the Third Ward Relief So-
ciety, Jan. 2nd, 1879, and held that office till change of
residence made it necessary for her to resign, still remain-
ing a member till her death. Appropriate resolutions of
respect were unanimously adopted by the Society.
		LUCRETIA B. FARR, President,
		MARY A. WEST,
		THERESA MARIOTT, Counselors.


[Column 1]
F.  Auerbach & Bro.﻿
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[pointing hand icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[pointing hand icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[pointing hand icon] Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[text to the left of the image] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 	
[text to the right of the image] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years. 
[text below the image] Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.	

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF  
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS,  ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing hand icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. Eldredge, Spt.

Special to the Ladies

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes	
		112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1886.	No. 20.


"GIVE THE MORMONS THEIR RIGHTS."

BY EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

	The following poem was read at the Ladies' Mass
Meeting on the 6th inst., and is published here instead of
in its proper place in the proceedings.

Must the "Mormons" be mute, when compassion is weep-
		ing?
	And sorrows unnumbered are right at our door?
Should "The daughter of Zion" be quietly sleeping—
	As if the dark day of her bondage were o'er?
Our wrongs and our cares—must we welcome as sweet?
Or walk into snares that are laid for our feet?

Like a whirlwind approaching, vile laws now are pending,
	If passed, all the pillars of Freedom will shake,
"Our cause is most just," yet it claims such defending:
	"The Women of Mormondom" needs must awake.
Thus we humbly petition Columbia's nation,
To frown on oppression and harsh legislation.

Our foes trouble little or nothing to mention,
	For "poor Mormon women" or down-trodden wives."
Were polygamy only the bone of contention,
	The "Mormons" might vote all the rest of their
Our foes may not count us smart, sensible folks:
But we see through their purpose,—contempt provokes

We prize not their pity, whose aim is to plunder
	A people who strictly to peace are inclined;
If the "Mormons" lose patience need any one wonder,
	Who considers o[-]r wrongs, by the crafty designed,
Yet they'll harvest disgrace where they hope for renown,
Who for power or place thrust the innocent down.

We appeal to the people in freedom's dominions—
	To the fair-minded millions who love what is right;
Must the "Mormons" be robbed for their faith and opin-
		ions—
	Crush'd and ground, 'twixt the millstones of greed and
		of spite?
Is it needful or lawful to wrest freedom from us
For what we believe, or for what we can't promise?

Our honor is priceless, our rights are all precious,
	Our affections are sacred, our households are dear;
Our husbands are heroes, in spite of the specious
	And wonderful (?) rulings of Judges so queer,
Who shift their decisions around and around;
Till for "Mormons" a verdict, of "Guilty" is found.

"The world loves its own" but it "hates us," and fights us,
	Our rights are withheld, and our friends are in prison;
Yet we never are comfortless, always the righteous
	"Through much tribulation" to glory have risen.
Let the spirit of fairness quench bigotry's fire;
Then the "Mormons" will reap all the praise they desire.

Foretold was our fate, of a truth "men revile us,"
	And the meanest of motives, our foes thus disguis'e;
Their black hearted falsehoods will fail to defile us,
	But the masses are misled by plausible lies. 
Alas! that such libels, so stript of the truth;
Are read more than Bibles, by thousands, forsooth.

If the vex'd "Mormon problem" must have a solution
	'Tis time something nobler than hate should be tried;
Sure, the "Mormons" have suffered enough persecution,
	Yet sustained by their faith they have lived, they have
		thrived.
The more they are slander'd—and hanted and driven—
The more they are prosper'd and favor'd of heaven.

Praise surely is due to the stout-hearted exiles—
	Who rescued from barrenness Utah's broad vales;
Who built all the bridges, and leveled the ridges
	And braved all the hardships such settling entailed.
God blessed our endeavor; He rescues us ever,
Though ev'ry thing fails, shall we doubt Him? No never.

Our homage we yield to the Lord our defenders,
	For manifold mercies, what less can we do?
"To Caesar" the Mormons, "submissively render

[Column 2]

	Whatsoever is just, whatsoever is due. 
But to those who would crush us or fleece us by law,
We can't for the life of us kneel down in awe.

To statesmen we turn, yea, we ask your protection,
	In the land that with blood was from tyranny freed;
Must the "Mormons" to-day be the only exception
	To the hosts, who can honor their conscience indeed?
Oh ye, whose brave fathers scaled freedom's proud heights
Concede to the "Mormons" their God-given rights.


[Column 1]	
	﻿“WOMAN AN INSTITUTION.”

	It is a gratifying thought that everywhere
there is a "discerning public," or we might see
oftener than we do, "the blind leading the
blind"—consequences, both "falling into the
ditch." I thought this when I read, some
time ago, a piece headed as above, copied from
the Atlantic New Era. I pity the writer, be-
cause I know he is only half alive, and it ap-
pears to me that the sun of his moral system
shines only on one hemisphere of his brain, 
hence his obliquity of vision and obtuseness in
understanding character and position; he seems
to desire to assert something original, but hard-
ly knows what, so he calls woman an institu-
tion. He seems never to have met or known
a woman who can blend the useful with
the ornamental, therefore we will take
it for granted that he knows nothing of a
well educated woman, one who knows her
place and tries to hold and embellish it, who
can train a child without "spanking" the sense
out of it, but simply because she has a right to
be obeyed, and will be; he only knows woman
in extremes, and his extreme is one that has
never learned the art of governing nor ruling
and cannot train her children without loud
talking and a copious supply of birch twigs. 
We believe in blending the prose and the
poetry of life; this is the true philosopher's
stone "that converts all into gold!" Our model
woman is indeed the model woman; his is not
perfect by any means, only in "sewing on but-
tons!" We kindly commit him into her care,
and request her to attend to him, for with all 
her wonderful capability, she certainly has left
him short in that appendage! 
	He may despise a Ristori, a Sigourney, a
Hemans, and probably he despices beauty and
sublimity everywhere, simply because he does
not comprehend anything glorious or heavenly; 
but he must be told that the universal world
has ever established the fact that such are
lights burning and shining to warm, cheer, ele-
vate and console, that refine and edify and set
the spirit free from the clay, that unlock the
heart and brain, that have been sealed up, and
let "the captives go free." Who would not pity 
the man or woman who was incapable of ap-
preciating the charms of such mighty souls?
	The domestic sphere is, of course, the theatre
of woman's peculiar role, but did God intend
her to be a domestic drudge? I fancy not. 
In the severe reproof given to her in the Gar-
den of Eden, when about to be ejected from it, 
labor is not named; that was especially man's 
punishment; but every true woman desires to
be a helpmate to her brother man, and she ever
is so. Can she not be so trained that she can
embellish the drawing room, the parlor, and 
the kitchen? and also the laundry, and even 
the scullery! Verily she can. We have seen
and known women, whose education had been
of the first order, whose minds had been formed
in the highest mold, and whose fingers would
fly over the keys of the piano, developing Mo-

[Column 2]
zart, Handel, Beethoven and others of like re-
nown in their most abstruse music, were paint-
ers and French scholars, yet whose same sweet 
hands could turn into all the mysteries of the
cooking department, the dairy, and heap the 
table with the work and adornment of their
own hands, and do the honors, too, with ad-
mirable grace and skill, and then the half of
their attainments are not told. Such women
never dream of stepping out of their sphere; 
they know themselves and their position, and
simply hold their own as a regnant queen in
their own domestic territory. 
	Joan of Arc is to them not an "institution," 
but a revelation; they know that God has ever
had His emissaries, and in dark seasons the
weakest instrument in His hands can wield the
power He bestows, and like Joan of Arc, carry
out the mission to which He has ordained them, 
and proud man has to stoop his crest and 
marvel, as in the case of the woman named; 
her episode is one of the most remarkable—an 
uneducated girl, yet she rose up like "one
having authority," declared her errand and
what the finale should be, and it was so, and
kings had to bow and succumb to her heaven-
decreed mission. 
	Poets have ever been the prophets, to warn, 
to cheer, to elevate and to chronicle the his-
tory of men and nations, writing it in poems, 
epics and lyrics; they possess an inspiration—
yes, if they live for it—a revelation of the Spirit
of God—where they have perverted this
glorious gift we would believe "their virtues 
were all their own, their faults those of their
education and country." Shut out the poets
from the world and one might say, "Let us
have winter all the time!" 
	But, oh! may women study and learn their
mission, that which God gave them, when He
said, "She shall be a helpmeet for man." He
alone can teach them by the whisperings of
His Spirit; let them turn their spirit eye with-
in themselves and study all the material that
lies there, often unknown to themselves; let them
gather it up and utilize it for the happiness of 
themselves and for the benefit of their familites
and associates; this will render them fit to be-
come the teachers of their children, and lay a
foundation of future excellence, that when
they become men and women they may be
qualified for important positions, may nobly
fight the battle of life, and reflect honor upon
their parents and all whom they are associated
with; there is also a rich reward for those who
take pains to cultivate the faculties with which
God has endowed His creatures. Such an one
can with truth echo the words of one of our
poets—"My mind to me a kingdom is!" A
broad field of beauty and happiness is ever
open to the mind that seeks knowledge from 
the many fountains of instruction ever open to
all who desire to drink at their s[-]reams and re-
cruit their minds, when the body is worn down
with labor and the sterile cares of this work-a-
day world. It is good to be self-reliant, self-
controled, and self-disciplined; then we are in-
dependent and trouble no one. We have a
right to feed our mind with every aliment 
that it craves and that is within our reach, law-
fully to attain, and it is our imperative duty
to do so. Let us take the honey bee for our 
prototype, that gathers from every source, often
the opposite of beauty and sweetness, yet by
her alchemic art, she turns all into "nectarious
gold." "Knowledge is power," and if rightly
applied, produces happiness and wealth of


every kind. How often have I echoed the
the sweet lines of Watt's hymn:

	"Thanks to my friends for their care in my breeding
	Who taught me betimes to love working and reading."
		HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

CLEVELAND AND DEMOCRACY.

A DEMOCRATIC ORGAN ON THE SITUATION—
NO HOPE OF BETTERING A BAD CONDITION.

	The time has come for plain and honest
speech. The hope of bettering a bad condi-
tion of things by patient forebearance, by ap-
probation for all that could be approved. and 
by the desire to avoid every cause of probable
difficulty, has induced Democrats to withhold
truths that can no longer be properly con-
cealed from public view. Candid considera-
tion of them may possibly provide a remedy
for existing evils.
	A year has passed away since Mr. Cleve-
land was inaugurated as President, under
cheerful and encouraging auspices. The
party was united and the outlook was satis-
factory when he entered the White House.
The situation to-day, compared with what it
was on the 4th of March, 1885, is sadly al-
tered.
	It is not necessary to enquire into the causes
which have brought about this serious change.
The fact exists that there is no cordial confi-
dence, familiar communication, nor political
cohesion between the President and the Demo-
crats in Congress. They have been drifting 
apart gradually, until it may be said the line
of separation between them has become broad
and marked. The President's want of experi-
ence in national affairs, and his slight ac-
quaintance with public men, are doubtless
responsible for some of the errors into which
he was unconsciously enticed in the beginning of 
his new career. The composition of the cabi-
net illustrates one important mistake
which the omission of the names of Mr. Thur-
man and other distinguished Democrats made
conspicuous, and provoked criticism without
regard to party.
	In the limited distribution of patronage the
President has suffered, as all his predecessors
of late years have suffered, by either wilful or
accidental deception. The discovery of this
practice made him suspicious in other cases,
and by slow degrees a mutual distrust has
grown up which now appears as a threatening
danger to the Democracy.
	A series of singular successes in a brief
career has undoubtedly produced the belief in
the President's mind that his whole course has
been acceptable to the people, and that how-
eve politicians may disagree with him. he is
always sure of that support. This conviction
strengthens the self-assertion which seems to
be natural to his character, and is firmly and
bluntly maintained against arguments and
mild protestations when differences are dis-
cussed.
	The President has laid down for his own
guidance a chart of policy, so far as the pub-
lic offices are concerned, from which he will
not depart without a complete change of pur-
pose. He has announced it with repeated
emphasis in the application of the civil-service
law and rules, but in other respects he is ex-
tremely reserved
	There are many vacancies now existing in
important offices, some of which are temporari-
ly filled under the law by judges of the Federal 
courts, for which the President has thus far
declined to make nominations. He gives
no reason for this abstention, and
answers no inquiries concerning the ap-
plications, except in the most inconclusive
way.
	Mr. Cleveland's habit of extreme caution as
often misses as hits its intended mark. He de-

[Column 2]

lights in surprises, and in the most seemingly
indifferent way he is constantly seeking infor-
mation concerning persons who have been
proposed for appointments at home or abroad.
Sometimes he accepts opinions that might
better be disregarded.
	These methods have estranged leading
Democrats who do not admire the President's
peculiarities and do not fully appreciate the
circumstances in which he is placed. He has 
not invited his fellowship, and they have not
felt themselves justified in seeking confidence
that the President had the power to bestow,
and which he alone could imitate.
	The fault on the part of the President may
be ascribed to their constitutional organization
and to the habits of his life. The fault on the
part of the Democrats is that they failed to
see the obstacle in the path of a good under-
standing, and therefore could not remove it
by an effort which would not have compromised
their dignity.
	As a consequence of this misapprehension,
or unfortunate disagreement, there has come
to be a cold and ceremonious relation between
him and the party in Congress, with which he
should be on the most cordial terms. It may
almost be described, if applied in the aggre-
gate, as a positive estrangement. Of
course, there are personal exceptions, as
there always will be in such cases, while fa-
vors reward submission.
	At the last reception given by the Presi-
dent, with a display of elegant and costly 
decoration that astonished some of the accus-
tomed visitors at the White House, there were
not a dozen members of Congress present.
The absence of many Senators especially had
been noticed on a previous occasion, but in
this instance the non-attendance was as marked
as when the Whigs cut John Tyler and refused
absolutely to cross the threshold of the Exe-
cutive Mansion under any form of invita-
tion.
	This state of things cannot continue with-
out damage to the Democratic party,
which should stand, in patriotic consideration,
above the President and above members of
Congress. The great cause and the principles
which that party represents, and which are
identified with the progress and perpetuity of
free institutions, must not be imperiled be-
cause of these differences, which ought to be
quickly adjusted.
	Hence it is gratifying to know that a con-
ference between accredited leaders and the
President will soon take place, at which the
points of disagreement will be frankly dis-
cussed, and with a hope of a clearer under-
standing. With proper explanations and
mutual concessions, a perfect agreement ought
to be reached. Whoever stands in the way of
harmony will certainly be the loser in the
long run. The Democracy can forgive much,
but treachery they will not forgive.—New
York Sun.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		KOOSHAREM.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of this place held their
annual meeting February 10th, 1886. The
house was decorated with the pretty and use-
ful work of the young ladies, the time was
spent in listening to songs, essays and recita-
tions by the members of the association, and
we also received some good instructions from
the leading brethren of our settlement; they
were well pleased to see the young ladies do-
ing so well; the spirit of the Lord was with us
and all seemed to feel well. On the 12th of Feb-
ruary we had a very pleasant time; a few of
us gathered at the house of sister Barbara.

[Column 2]

Bailey, while she was out at her daughter's
for a short time, it being her 70th birthday
It gave her a surprise on her return home to
find her table spread with the good things of
the earth. There were some small presents
given to her, and the boys turned out and
hauled her 3 loads of wood and cut it all up
in the afternoon. We spent the afternoon
with her and all went home rejoicing and will,
no doubt, always remember the pleasant time
they had.
		MARY A. HATCH, President,
		JOSEPHA O. WRIGHT, Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of Relief Society of
Utah County held Feb. 26th, 1886, President
John presiding, with Counselor Marilla
Daniels. We were also favored with the com-
pany of Sister S. M. Kimball, from Salt Lake
City. Conference opened by singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former Confer-
ence and reports of the County, etc.
	Sister John felt well in meeting with the
sisters in Conference once more, and thought
we were doing a good work. We know this
is the Kingdom of God, and feel that the
Lord is blessing us here in Provo. Urged all
to be faithful, and exercise their faith for our
brethren that are in bondage and exile. At
the request of S. M. Kimball, a few of the
sisters sang, "I had a dream." Sister Kimball
followed. She asked, "how shall we get this
oil that we cannot buy with money. We are
the only women on earth who have a steward-
ship conferred on them, and it should be our
study and prayer that we may be enabled to
magnify our callings honorably. Let us honor
those who are called to preside over us and
pray for them. It will be found a power in
their behalf. We must seek to build up and
not pull down. Let us cultivate a spirit of
peace, for our strength lies in the power we
have with God." After singing, conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session: Conference opened with
the usual exercises, Sister Goodman spoke
in the interests of the silk association of Utah
County. Sister S. M. Kimball followed with
a few remarks on the same subject, and coun-
seled the sisters if they could not succeed in
the undertaking to ask aid of the brethren.
She related some of her experiences in the
Relief Society, and in regard to Society build-
ings; said she had the honor of laying the
first corner stone of the first Relief Society
building that was built in this dispensation
and Brother Joseph gave the first five dollars
that was given towards establishing a fund
for the Relief Society. Brothers Taylor and
Richards followed with the same amount each
and Brother Joseph said that hereafter every-
thing he gave to the poor should go through
that channel, etc. She thought the name of
Brother Beck should be placed on record for
his generous donation of twelve hundred dol-
lars to the Relief Society house of Lehi Ward.
	Prest. John, the next speaker, said woman's
mission was never more important than at the
present time. "The Lord is purifying His
people and He will try us to the core. Let
us be careful how we judge each other until we
are tested ourselves. This is not a dark day
for Israel, but a day to test us and the nations.
Let us be faithful to our covenants, for we
have more than fifty millions on our side."
	Prest. H. H. Cluff spoke on unity and obe-
dience and thought we would do well to think
on those subjects. He spoke of the necesstiy
of concentrating our time and means if we
wish to accomplish anything. He spoke also
in the interest of the Stake tabernacle.
After singing conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by D. Graves.
		O. DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRANDMOTHER'S GARDEN.

I've been back to grandmother's garden,
	Where the dear old flowers grow,
That she planted there and tended,
	In the summers long ago—
The sweet, old-fashioned flowers
	That used to delight her so.

There are lilacs by gate and doorway,
	And lilies, all in a row,
Whose blossoms we fancied trumpets
	For fairy bands to blow;
And southern-wood, spicily fragrant,
	By the doorstone, worn and low.

Pinks that are rich with odors
	Of clove and myrrh are there;
And I seem, when I smell their fragrance,
	To be in the house of prayer
In grandmother's pew, on Sunday,
	Close by the pulpit stair.

I can see her there with her hymn-book
	Open at "Wells" or "Mear,"
With a bunch of her garden "posies"
	Between the leaves, and hear
The voice that has sung in heaven
	For many and many a year.

Grandmother gave her flowers
	To crown the maiden's head
When she stood at the marriage altar,
	And a wife's "I will" was said.
And they came to her for blossoms
	To shut in the hands of the dead.

I remember the summer morning
	When grandmother heard the call,
Of the angel of death, whose summons
	Will some day come to us all;
The June's first roses were blowing
	Down by the garden wall.

"How sweet they are," she whispered,
	"What dear things God has made:
I am going to dwell in His country,
	Where the roses never fade."
Then she folded her hands on her bosom,
	And it seemed as if she prayed.

She looked so peaceful and happy,
	With her hands clasped on her breast,
Holding the flowers we brought her,
	That we fancied her taking a rest;
'Twas the rest that's forever and ever,
	Of all the sweetest and best.

Over her grave in the churchyard
	Her dear old flowers blow;
But I think of her out in the garden
	Of God, where His lilies grow;
And I fancy she tends His flowers
	As she used to here below.

		EBEN E. REXFORD.


OUR CHILDREN.

	It is a great boon to the rising generation,
that the old custom of "telling ghost stories"
and "witch stories," is pretty much abandoned.
And it is to be greatly hoped that it may
never be revived. Pleasant and true stories
are the best for the little ones to become inter-
ested in. Those things which awaken and lay
claim to their earliest thoughts and imagina-
tions are sure to continue with them though
all their lives; and, without doubt, have some
effect even upon the after life, inasmuch as
words and actions are influenced by impres-
sions made on the human mind.
	In connection with this subject, it may be
observed how very important it is that little
ones should be early taught to pray. Chil-
dren who, as soon as they can talk, are taught
to call upon their Heavenly Father for favors
which they can understand no one else is able
to grant, to thank Him for their lives, for
health and strength; to look to Him as one
interested in all their little affairs and what-
ever concerns them, as much or even more
than the "papa" whom they believe in as the
man among men; children thus taught rare-


ly if ever forget or turn aside from their early
instructions. They have a sure hope to cling
to through all their lives, which will buoy
them up under the most trying circumstances;
a hope, a faith that is worth more than every-
thing else without it.
	If correct ideas of the Eternal Father and
His attributes are planted and fostered in the
infant mind, all after instructions of a worthy
nature will be more readily received. The
child who has been brought to a realization of
the great mercies, to all that lives, manifested
by the Creator of the earth and its creatures
will be quick to comprehend why he should
be kind, gentle and forebearing in his treat-
ment of all things with which he is associated.
	Here it may be appropriate to refer to the
subject of kindness to dumb creatures as a
principle which should be early aud deeply
impressed upon the minds of the young.
From a lengthy and highly interesting letter
upon this subject by the same lady resident of
the Isle of Wight lately quoted in these
columns, the following story is taken; which,
though not a pleasant one, is true, striking and
instructive.
	The lady writes: "I will mention another
instance which happened here.
	Two men, (so called,) deprived a frog of its
two front legs, and then amused themselves
watching the struggles of their helpless vic-
tim in the dust, on its hind legs only. Mean-
while, a poor lady had earnestly besought and
remonstrated with them on the unhappy
creature's behalf, but all to no purpose, sub-
jecting herself to insult in vain.
	A fortnight after, one of these wretches
was drawn into some machinery, escaping in-
deed with his life, let us hope to repent, but,
with the loss of both his arms!
	This story proclaims its own moral; and it
would be well if those who show themselves
deaf to all appeal to feeling, who seem,
indeed, to have no feeling to appeal to, would
accept the possible consequences to themselves,
remembering that there is such a word as
retribution."
	The thought occurs that if those men,
(so called,) who are now depriving many of
our innocent little ones of their fathers, at
least, for the time being, and many blame-
less wives of their husbands, would take such
lessons as the above to heart they might re-
pent of their evil deeds in time to escape some
of the terrible calamities awaiting them.
		LULA.


DRINKS AT THE CAPITAL.

THE POPULAR BEVERAGES, INTOXICATING AND
OTHERWISE, AT WASHINGTON RECEPTIONS.

	Some ladies in Washington who have large
receptions one afternoon of each week, and
who have been in the habit of having punch
always for their guests, have lately substituted
lemonade, and have found that their visitors
seem to enjoy the change. One of these
hostesses says she is beginning to think it un-
wise to offer punch to young ladies and gen-
tlemen. One lady says she puts three bottles
of claret, one of champagne, one of whisky,
and half a bottle of rum into the punch she
makes for her reception each week. That
surely would seem an injudicious concoction
to offer to young people. "I hear," lately ob-
served a lady in conversation on the above sub-
ject. "that Mrs.—— has given up altogether
having punch at her receptions. Now, hers
used to be the strongest punch and furnished
in the largest quantities on reception days of
any in Washington." "Yes, and it is so now,"
answered a young gentleman. "I suppose the
report that she had ceased to have it originated
from the fact that she had no punch at her re-
ceptions the first two weeks of the season, but


that was only because she had lent her punch-
bowl to a neighbor, who was having a card re-
ception on each of her first reception days."
By this it will be seen that Washington is
nothing if not neighborly in the truly rural
sense.
	The punch at the teas given from 3 to 6
Thursdays in February by Representative
Scott's daughter, Mrs. Townsend, was made of
Apollinaris water, champagne, and arrack.
Mrs. Townsend also had tea, coffee, and bou-
lion at these receptions, the latter being served
piping hot in a cut-glass pitcher, and this bev-
erage seemed to find favor of all on chilly
afternoons.
	Secretary Whitney is the first member of
the Cabinet for a number of years who has had
champagne at a reception. He furnished it in
liberal quantities at his New Year reception,
and did the same at the evening receptions he
and his wife gave Thursdays in February. No
other member of the present Administration
has had wine at his large receptions, though
claret punch is usually provided at the Wed-
nesday afternoon receptions, at Cabinet houses.
Secretary and Mrs. Endicott commonly have
no other drink than tea when they receive by
day or evening.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many a small man never ceases talking
about small sacrifices he makes; but he is a
great man who can sacrifice everything and
say nothing.
	Let any man in middle life look over the
list of those he has known and ask himself
whether those have always succeeded best
whose minds were most intent upon success.
	It is better that joy should be spread over
the whole of the day in the form of strength
than that it should be concentrated into ecs-
tasies full of danger and followed by reaction.
	The Vermont people have built a forty-five
degree toboggan chute and named it after Sena-
tor Edmunds. Now let the Illinois people
build a horizontal one, and name it after Col.
Morrison.
	One of the chief benefits of conversation is
that each can learn that which his companion
knows and he does not; but this benefit can
come only to the modest and receptive mind.
Most of the argument held by persons of op-
posite views is quite futile for the want of this
mental condition. The object is not to find
out the truth about the mooted subject, but to
shine and to conquer. Neither party becomes
wiser, neither is convinced. The triumph of
one and the humiliation of the other are alike
fruitless, and more or less unpleasant feeling is
left behind. A thorough defeat taken in the
right spirit is more really valuable to the truth-
seeker than twenty victories that only feed
vanity.
	Lazy people it is said, die young. Those
who are active in body and brain, as a rule
live to old age. Brain exercise and a good
deal of it, invigorates the body. As the arm
of the blacksmith develops muscle by its stal-
wart strokes, the brain increases in size and
vigor by judicious use. It is the reservoir of
energy to the rest of the body, and as it gains
in power, greater vitality and a stronger hold
on life are the result. Torpidity, inertness and
inactivity or irregular, fitful exercise of the
brain, are on the other hand forerunners of 
mental and physical degeneration. Avoid
stagnation then. Give both mind and body
plenty to do. Rust gathers in the wake of
idleness. Keep all the faculties bright and
polished by constant use, that life may be
happy and healthy, and old age a crown of
glory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
	KIRTLAND AND NAUVOO.

	Prolific topics these! When one has a lofty
subject one feels most keenly the inability to give
adequate expression in the delineation of the
theme. And when one sees Kirtland and Nauvoo
both within a week's time, going over each place
with a tenderness almost amounting to reverence,
as if treading upon holy ground, silence is the best
offering one can make at such a time. That is
very well for the individual person, but of what
benefit is it to others, and what about those who
expect something more expressive than silence—
the eager public, who are anxious to hear observa-
tions one will make upon these noted cities of the
Saints, each of which flourished for a time as the
"Latter-day Zion;" in both of which a Temple has
been erected to the Most High God, and where
sacred ordinances have been performed by those
having authority through the holy priesthood.
And when reflecting upon this subject one cannot
help mentally asking, "Where now are all the
great assemblies of the Saints of former days, who
met and worshipped in these consecrated places?"
and the winds echo,"Where, indeed?" And alas!
who can tell? Some have lain down to sleep in
"the valley of the shadow of death," and their
spirits have gone "beyond the gates," to preach
to the spirits in prison, or to associate with the
great company of the departed. Some, perhaps,
after having received the good word and tasted
the "bread of life," have fallen away and mingled
again with the world they had once renounced.
Others have kept the faith and still live, have en-
dured much tribulation, counting not the cost, for
the glorious hope within, and have added to their
wisdom, treasures of knowledge from time to
time, as the Lord has revealed Himself through
His prophets. Some have been slain for the
word of God and the testimony of Jesus, and
others have died from the hardships and privations
endured in the pilgrimages consequent upon the
persecutions through which the Saints have been
called to pass.
	Of that great company, that vast and solemn
assembly that gathered in the Kirtland Temple in
those early days, "but few remain" to tell the
story. Historic names indeed are Kirtland and
Nauvoo. They thrill the pulses of the Latter-day
Saints, and call up a thousand tender recollections
whenever the names are uttered among the people
who know the facts and incidents connected there-
with.
	Do those who live to-day realize what the early
founders of this "Mormon" empire did for them?
They opened the way, they ushered in the new
dispensation, they laid the foundation, they heeded
not the consequences, they bore the scorn, the
contumely, the hate, and withstood the threats,
the fury of mobs, the treachery of false friends
and brethren. How little the present generation
think and appreciate what has been borne and
suffered by the early disciples of the Church in
these last days. It has been freely given, and ac-
cepted as a natural inheritance, as a child receives

[Column 2]
by rightful dower his father's wealth, without
considering the toils, the struggles and privations
which were encountered in its accumulation. Is
it right to be unmindful of the blessings so dearly
earned, and be guilty of the sin of ingratitude for
the want of earnest thought and a just apprecia-
tion of those who spent their lives and substance
in the establishment of the kingdom of God upon
the earth? Let us trust not; let us hope for better
things, and strive to show by works faithfully per-
formed that the good example of those early
pioneers in Zion's cause has stimulated us who
live to-day to more earnest endeavors in the pur-
suance and support of a sublime faith and active
devotion for the great cause so heroically main-
tained at the risk of all that was near and dear, and
even life itself.
	Leaving Cleveland by the Lake Shore and
Michigan Railway we soon arrived at Willoughby,
were, by private conveyance, we proceeded to
Kirtland. As the road was entirely new to the
writer, none of the old land-marks were particu-
larly interesting as they would have been to those
who had gone over and over the road in times past,
but Little Mountain was pointed out (and little it
was, indeed, to one accustomed to gazing upon
the stupendous mountains of the Wasatch range),
as rather a striking feature among the tame
scenery of the open country, and, alas! mentioned
as a summer resort for picnics and so forth. At
a turn of the road, the Temple became visible, and
knowing the building well from the pictures we
had seen, it was at once recognized. How strange
it looked, standing as it does in bold relief apart
from all else, as though it had no connection with
the surrounding objects, grant, though plain in
architecture, and old in its appearance, even a
stranger could not but imagine it had a history.
To one who knew the circumstances, it possessed
almost a fascination. As the carriage drew nearer,
houses, barns and trees became more distinct;one
could get an excellent view of the town on that
side, or, as it is commonly designated, the Kirt-
land Flats. Driving into the town direct we sort
of instinctively recognized the residence and store
of Newel K. Whitney, formerly Presiding Bishop
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints; also the Johnson tavern, as hotels in the
country were usually called. We drove up to the
platform in front of the store and there alighted,
just where Joseph Smith the Prophet did when he
came to Kirtland in 1831, when he addressed N.
K. Whitney as he stood behind the counter in
those memorable words, "I'm Joseph the Prophet;
you've prayed me here, now what do you want of
me?" All this and a hundred other memories of
the dead rushed to mind, as we stood like one en-
tranced gazing upon that historic city. Crossing
the street from the store, we knocked at the door
of the house on the corner opposite, assured it
must be the one we had heard spoken of so often
by Bishop Whitney and his venerable wife,
Horace, Sarah and the young boys, as "our
home in Kirtland." A sweet-faced young woman
with her first baby was living there, and after so-
liciting the privilege of going through the house,
she very kindly allowed us to reconnoitre every
nook and corner. Here indeed one might well re-
call those touching lines of Tom Moore's,

"I feel like one who treads along
Some banquet hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but me departed."

	We lingered as long as we dare in each room
(for the young woman possibly though it passing
strange), recalling the incidents we had heard re-
lated of "the old homestead," and especially in
"mother's room," as it was invariably referred to
by all the Whitney family. Over this particular
room was the chamber where Joseph had been
lodged as an honored guest on his first arrival in
Kirtland, and where he had oft retired to meditate
and to write, and to receive communications from

[Column 3]
the Lord. Entering that room, passing over the
threshold was "like standing upon holy ground."
One's emotions must indeed be under perfect con-
trol not to be strongly wrought upon. To one
very susceptible to spiritual impressions, it is no
wonder if the feeling was akin to reverence. How
could it be otherwise? Here had sat the great
Prophet and leader of the last dispensation of
the fulness of times. In that very room he had
received some of the most important messages
from the Almighty concerning the Latter-day
work. In this humble place had been gathered in
council some of the men who were the strongest
pillars of the Church in its early organization.
Here they had called upon God in fervent prayer,
here they had sought Him for wisdom and divine
help. O, "it was good to be there," to meditate
upon things that had transpired in that little room
that had been dedicated to God again and again
by His servants and handmaidens. Now it was
empty and deserted, a fitting place, it looked, for
bats and owls to congregate; cobwebs and dust
had accumulated until one could scarcely see
from its windows, and no use was made of it
whatever. Nothing remained of all its former
greatness or its uses, and none there could tell the
story of what had transpired within its walls, or
proudly testify of its distinguished occupants. All
was gone, and the men who once sat there in
council are now engaged in another field of labor
behind the vail.
	We went into the Whitney store afterwards,
which seemed to have been kept in good repair,
and after taking a look around and asking a few
questions of the bystanders, we walked out upon
the platform that faced the Temple Hill and took
a survey of the town as it could be seen from
there, then walked on, in preference to riding up
the hill, where so many hundreds, perchance
thousands, had gone to the Temple to worship
God. Once there, we succeeded, after some time,
in finding a guide to show us through the Temple.
Those who have visited such sacred places will
realize with what peculiar feelings we trod those
deserted halls, and wended our way up and down
the large and commodious rooms, taking specia
pains to note the stands at each end of the assem-
bly rooms for the several quorums of the priest-
hood to sit in their regular order. We climbed to
the very top and looked out upon the scene, and
while thus engaged, the mind grasped as much as
possible of the wonderful events that had tran-
spired in that vicinity of which we had read and
heard from those who participated in the develop-
ment of "the marvelous work and wonder," which
grew up in that region of the country.
	Leaving the Temple, after registering and being
told of young Joseph's great expectations con-
cerning the future of the people of Utah, and so
on, we wandered through the graveyard near
there, reading the inscriptions upon the tomb-
stones, many of them broken and much defaced,
and from there to Father Bond's, as we had been
told the Bond's could tell everything about Kirt-
land as it was formerly. Father Bond was a
member of the Church in New York State in a
very early day, and has kept the faith. He is now
eighty-eight years old, and very feeble. He made
inquiries about several people whom he knew long
ago, and related some facts and incidents,referring
frequently to such men as Brigham, Joseph and
Lorenzo Young, Judge Snow, Bates Nobles and
others of note. Miss Mary Bond, his daughter,
a maiden lady, and once an intimate friend and
playmate of Helen Kimball's (now Whitney), did
most of the talking. She is very delicate, but is
bright and intelligent. She said, among other re-
marks made by her during the interview, "If I
accept Moses as a prophet of the Lord, I must
also accept Joseph." This Sister Mary made a
very forcible impression upon the writer; she is
in some respects singular in manner and original
in her expression of views, and fragile in appear-


ance, being an invalid—perhaps a trifle crude, but
she is evidently a character which one must recog-
nize as a type among women. She is very small, 
her hair is short, and almost as white as the driven
snow, but when she talked of her childhood and
the people who figured conspicuouslly in the 
Church of Kirtland, her delicate face was all
aglow, and her eyes, sparkled with enthusiasm.
So striking was her voice and manner, and so
pathetic the picture she formed in my mind, with
the aged father and his sublime faith and confi-
dence, both of them seeming, as it were, so near
"the gates ajar," that it was "as though we had
seen a vision."
	Our destination after leaving the Bonds was the
farm and residence of the Reverend Samuel F.
Whitney, the brother of N. K. Whitney, who
has resided in Kirtland between fifty and sixty
years. This ends hastily, perhaps, but it must
suffice for the present, as the subject is much too
elaborate for one article.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	VISIT TO BLACKWELL'S ISLAND.

	As perhaps many of our readers may not know
much about this island, it may be stated that it is
in the East River, and is a long, rather narrow
strip of land, belonging to the City of New York.
It is one of a group of islands that are all used
for public purposes, but of these, Blackwell's Island
seems to be the principal one and most conspicu-
ous. It is quite imposing in its appearance, owing
to the style of its architecture and the sea walls
around the shores, which are stoutly built of dark
grey granite. Most of the buildings on the Island
are of the same material, and have a rude battle-
mented sort of appearance, and remind us of
what we read of the feudal castles and towers of
the olden times. The stone is quarried on the
Island, and the labor has all been done by con-
victs.
	The principal buildings on this Island are the
Penitentiary, the Lunatic Asylum for women, the
Alms House for men, and the Alms House for
women, the Work House, Blind Asylum, Charity
Hospital, Hospital for Incurables and Convales-
cent Hospital. The buildings are all in good condi-
tion, and great pains is taken to have the most
perfect order and cleanliness observed. Neverthe-
less it is very distressing to a sensitive person to
see so much misery gathered together in one place.
Never can we forget the sights of that day, going
alone, without a friend to whom we could give
expression to thoughts and feelings that will al-
most force themselves into words when one looks
upon so much human suffering and degradation.
On the boat which conveyed the people, there
were quite a number of passengers, but
they, with only a few exceptions, were persons
going to see some particular friend or relative in
one or the other of these institutions.
	The first thing that drew special attention was
an old man who had twin babies in his arms, care-
fully wrapped in an old shawl, taking them over to
Blackwell's Island to the Infants's Hospital, as his
ticket stated. He was German, and could not
speak English enough to tell whose children they
were, but he seemed very tender of them and
proud to show them—two fine boys, and the ticket
said five days old; also giving the name of each.
An old Irish woman who belonged to the boat,
when she saw the ladies so interested in the babies
asked if we would like to see the women prisoners,
who were down stairs locked up, and when the 
ladies said, "yes," she took us down and let us 
look in through a little window; there were four-
teen of them going to the workhouse—a sort of 
house of correction; she spied one that she knew
and called out to her, "Martha, are you back
again," and the girl replied, "Yes," in a tone of
perfect self-possession. "What made you do it,"
said the woman. "O I couldn't help it," was the
answer. "How much have you got this time?"

[Column 2]
"Three months," replied the girl, as if it was only
a commonplace affair, and not worth talking about.
On inquiry afterwards concerning the matter, we
were told she had been drunk and got into a row
and been arrested and sent up, as they called it. She
was rather a good looking girl, perhaps twenty or
a little more. Even this was quite a shock, but
when you see them in hundreds it is simply dread-
ful. There were fifty-four men prisoners on the
other side of the boat.
	On arriving at the Island, the first place in our
way, after landing, was Charity Hospital, and we
went through that entire building, noting every-
thing carefully. The men and women had separ-
ate departments for each class of cases, from 
thirty to forty and fifty in a ward, and everything
seemed arranged with the utmost care and con-
sideration. We talked a little with the nurses,
and afterwards with the superintendent. Even
in this one place, we saw suffering enough to
make one heartsick. Next we went to the Peni-
tentiary, and, as it was then the dinner hour, we
had a good opportunity of seeing all the inmates,
except those in the cells. Six hundred men were
eating in one room and the remainder in another,
and nearly as many women in their part of the
building; only think of it! We asked what pro-
portion were women, as the number seemed to be
quite large in looking at them, and the warden
showed us the daily record kept for reference,
which showed 1,763 inmates, and of this number
there were 995 men, 767 women, and one child
born in the place. The average number, we were
told, had been 1,200, but it is increasing. The
warden seemed to take our meaning wrong, and
he said, "You think the women are few compared
to the men?" We replied on the contrary we thought
it a large proportion. He said, "Now let me tell
you something else in connection with this mat-
ter. A large proportion of these women are in
for longer terms than the men." We inquired
why, and he replied that they were there for
abortions, infanticides and the murder of children,
and inwardly we thought, where are the men
who have brought these poor outcast women to
such a desperate strait. It is certainly a matter
for serious thought; indeed, one may well exclaim
with the poet,

	"My soul is sick with wrong and outrage
	With which the world is filled."

	Later in the afternoon we saw dozens of these
male convicts fastened to the great heavy carts
hauling rock and dirt, etc., and long lines of them,
six abreast, going from the wharf towards the
house. They have shops for all sorts of labor,
and men over them. The warden explained that
the prison was conducted on the silent principle,
and that no communication between the prisoners
was allowed, except in teaching and instructing
them about their employment. Time will not
permit to tell all, or half, even, in that one
place.
	Leaving the Penitentiary, the next place we
we went through was the Alms House for women.
There were between seven and eight hundred in-
inmates, so the matron said, and it really seemed as
if there was no end to them. The way they
gathered around and chattered was unlike and
more grotesque than anything we had ever seen,
or ever expect to see again. They all talked at
once; some were Irish, some French, some Ger-
man, some Danes or Swedes, and some Americans,
but the larger number, by far, were Irish. They
were nearly all old, but a few were young, and we
learned in talking to them that they were disabled
in various ways from doing hard work, and had
been in the Hospital, but discharged because they
were not sick enough to be there, so sent to the
Alms House, as they had no homes to go to.
What an immense amount of means must be ex-
pended upon this one island every year. We
went through a part of the Alms House for males,
and saw groups of them sitting in the sunshine,

[Column 3]
and some walking up and down, but they were not
so talkative as the women; perhaps because they
were pretty nearly all smoking. The one item of
tobacco must be a consideration, for some of the
women smoked, too. There were not quite so
many men in the Alms House as there were
women, we were told.
	From there we went to the Hospital of Incur-
ables, and clear through, all of which we will
leave untold, for tongue or pen can never tell the
agony and suffering, the woe and horrors of the
place, though everything is done in the nicest
manner possible, and the greatest care taken of
the poor afflicted creatures. The Convalescent
Hospital is not so distressing, and one feels a
little more cheerful. The Workhouse we visited
last, and there were between eleven and twelve
hundred in it. One of the superintendents showed
us through, and took special pains to give us cor-
rect information concerning the management. He
seemed to take special pride in the kitchen and
cooking part of the establishment, and told us they
had a head cook who was hired and paid, and
forty assistants, who were inmates of the house.
There was one large room full of shelves filled
with bread, and he seemed quite proud of the fact
that they baked ninety barrels of flour every day.
Here again the men and women had separate de-
partments, as is the custom everywhere, and after
the superintendent had shown us the men's side
of the house, he called the matron, who took us
through the women's side.
	By this time we were too much exhausted, body
and spirit, to go to see anything so pitiful as the
Blind Asylum, but ventured to look in at the In-
sane Asylum for women. And only think of it,
over 1,700 women are gathered on that Island, all
more or less insane. It is too dreadful to contem-
plate, but when brought face to face with the fact,
one cannot ignore the reality, however repugnant
it may be to dwell upon. These terrible condi-
tions of human life are greatly to be deplored, and
where is the remedy? How can the causes be
hindered? The crowding together of such great
numbers in large cities is one direct cause it would
seem, and it really is an almost herculean labor
to look after affairs upon such a tremendous scale.
As we neared the shore to take the steamer for
New York, the men were bringing more patients
for the Hospitals, and they called out for three
stretchers. On these those unable to be carried
in any other way were placed and carried to the
Charity Hospital. Weary and sick at heart with
the distressing sights we had seen, and the
terrible things we had heard, we were glad to go
on board the steamer and turn our gaze from that
Island of horrors.


THE LADIES’ MASS MEETING.

"MORMON" WOMEN MEET, SPEAK AND RE-
				SOLVE.

				(Concluded.)	
	Following is the address delivered by

			MRS. HANNAH T. KING.

	We have met to express our most indignant
feelings at the uncourteous, indelicate, not to
say insulting, treatment our sisters have ex-
perienced of late in the courts of our Territory
before the judges sitting in the chair of jus-
tice! Questions have been boldly asked of
them that even their closest friends would not
have presumed to ask them, and feelings of the
tenderest nature have been ruthlessly tram-
pled upon! And when some have determined
not to answer such questions they have been
sent to prison for “contempt of court!”' Most
apt is that word, no other could so properly
express the feelings such conduct must engen-


[Column 1]﻿
der; honorable wives, united by the holiest
covenants that hearts can make and words ex-
press, must submit and bear silently whatever
insulting questions judges please to propound
to them, simply because they are members of
the Church of Jesus Christ, founded by Him,
and they obey its principles, every one of
which is holy, pure and true. It is for this
we have assembled here to-day, to raise our
voices before high heaven and to the world,
and to protest against the dignity of our
womanhood being outraged in this uncalled-
for manner. I cannot refrain from asking here:
Are we in America, that glorious world-re-
nowned country, proudly denominated "The
land of the free and the home of the brave,"
that formerly raised its voice to the world, and
declared it should be the home for the destitute
and down-trodden of every nation under hea-
ven, and that every form of religion should be
allowed and protected under the broad and
fostering folds of its glorious flag and its hea-
ven inspired Constitution? Where shall this
oppressed people turn for redress? Who shall
lift the heavy hand of oppression from off their
shoulders? Scripture says: "Cursed is he who
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh;" but
should the Lord see fit to raise up such an arm
it will be filled by His Spirit, and the power
of the Holy One will alone be wielded by it.
Oh, my sisters, let us live closer to Him than
we have hitherto done! Our marriage vows
are most sacred. Let us live and rejoice in
the knowledge which His everlasting Gospel
has bestowed upon us, and while our wounded
hearts are smarting beneath the cruelty of our
enemies, let us echo the words of our blessed
Savior under more exquisite suffering, as an
excuse for them: "They know not what they
do!"
	Miss Nellie Colebrook then read the poem
of Mrs. Woodmansee, which is published on
the first page of this number. At its conclu-
sion the band played "Hail Columbia."

	Mrs Cornelia Clayton read an address by

		MATTIE H. TINGEY.

MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	We deeply regret that within the confines of
the republic of the United States circumstances
have occurred which warrant and necessitate the
women of a community assembling them-
selves together to protest against injury and
insult, and that, too, by Federal officials. It
is an acknowledged fact that the more civi-
lized and highly educated a nation becomes,
the more are women protected, elevated and
honored. Can it be that our great Republic
has retrograded to a semi-barbarous state,
that men are upheld and retained in office,who
willfully and maliciously seek to drag honora-
ble, pure-minded women into their presence,
for the purpose of insulting them with ques-
tions that cause the blush of shame to mantle
the cheek of every true lover of virtue and
morality? It can not be possible.
	Shall we then, mothers, wives and daugh-
ters of citizens of this great Republic, sit
quietly down, like slaves, and see our rights
taken from us, our characters maligned and
insults heaped upon us, all because of religion,
the free exercise of which is guaranteed to us
by the time-honored Constitution of our coun-
try? Methinks I hear from every nook and 
corner of this spacious building, the ringing
answer, No! a thousand times no! So long as
the God of heaven gives us breath and power
of speech we will maintain our rights as citi-
zens of the United States, and protest against
women being subjected to such indignities as
have been offered the women of our community
by Federal officials, who should be our pro-
tectors against everything of such a nature.
	A stirring written address by

[Column 2]
		MRS. L. F. MONCH,
of Ogden was next read. We were unable to
obtain it for publication in full.
	The next address was by
				DR. R. B. PRATT.

MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	It is our best policy, as it is our duty, and in
accordance with our religion and the counsels
of our leaders, to meet all afflictions with pa-
tience, and to "suffer wrong rather than do 
wrong." "Defense should be our motto," and 
it is the motive power of this meeting to-day.
The mountain of evil that has been and is in 
prospect of being heaped upon our people,
the real brunt and heft of which falls on the
devoted heads of women and innocent chil-
dren, has put it into the hearts of the women
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints to protest against such unjust and un-
necessary proceedings, and if possible to make
a plain statement of our principles and opin-
ions; for be it known to all the world we most
assuredly possess both, and are neither slow
nor weak in making them known and felt as
far as we can, in a righteons way. We wish
to deal with stern facts to-day, and we there-
fore ask if the majority of monogamous fami-
lies of the United States, or even the world
are very profusely adorned with the flowers of
virtue and morality. Can a true and verita-
ble marriage which receives the divine sanc-
tion be immoral or the issue illegitimate?
Certainly at this point the bone of contention 
is made bare and the question is asked "is
it of divine origin?" And who but the indi-
vidual can decide this for himself? A true
marriage cannot be productive of evil, for it
is the perfect union of heart and soul, sancti-
fied by mutual consent and sealed by God's
holy ordinance. The "Mormon" marriage
covenant is as binding on the man as the
woman, for any departure from the marriage
law is a deadly sin punished by excommunica-
tion which we regard as spiritual death. The
Latter-day Saints regard plural marriage as
an extension of all the privileges and good re-
sults arising from single marriage. Has not
every woman the undeniable right to be an
honorable wife and mother—of fulfilling the
end of her creation, and do not the circum-
stances of life and statistics prove this to be
impossible under the monogamic system? If
the same ceremony seals each wife to her hus-
band, may not each family be a realization of
the beautiful picture of one father and one
mother, each the equal of the other in that
family, happy in the consciousness of mutual
and eternal affection, to rear about the hearth-
stone an intelligent and God-fearing family?
Our faith and confidence in the chastity and 
pure motives of our husbands, fathers,mothers
and sons is such that we challenge the pro-
duction of a better system of marriage and the
records of more moral or purer lives. Hand
in hand with celestial marriage is the eleva-
tion of woman. In church she votes equally
with men, and politically she has the suffrage
raising her from the old common law, mono-
gamic serfdom to political equality with men.
Rights of property are given her so that she, 
as a married woman, can hold property in her
own individual right. 
	Chaste and honorable women have been
taken alone into a room with fifteen men and
been baited and badgered by prosecuting offi-
cers and forced, on pain of imprisonment, to
answer the most insulting and indecent ques-
tions concerning their personal condition, their
expected maternity, and their private relations
with their husbands. Children of tender
years have been snatched from the pure home
circle and plied with questions concerning
their father's marital relations quite beyond
their years, until they tremble with open-eyed
wonder. Some noble women, rather than re-

[Column 3]
ply to these improper questions, have submitted
to imprisonment under the most trying circum-
stances. One became a mother within a few
days after leaving the penitentiary:  another
was imprisoned with a babe in her arms; an-
other with a babe at the breast, passing months
under the same roof with the most degraded
felons.
	We do not believe that the administration
of the laws as carried on in Utah would if
understood, be approved or sustained. We
will not yet believe that justice and equity for
want of a resting place have forsaken this
glorious land. Therefore, we, the women of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, once more make a plain confession of
our faith and principles—of convictions formed
by the unfettered conversion of conscience, 
that we do firmly believe in the divine
origin and the eternal benefits of celestial mar-
riage—that this system conduces to the eleva-
tion and independence of women—that the
men of this faith who are guided by the
spirit of the Gospel have the highest regard
for virtue and morality—are the most to be
trusted and the most loyal citizens of any 
men who live upon the earth. Therefore, in 
the name of justice, equity and conscience we
protest against special legislation which in-
hibits the conduct of our lives according to 
our best judgment for this life and most es-
pecially for the future. We appeal to the
honest-hearted of this nation, from President
Cleveland to the least one who will raise a 
voice against oppression, to use their influence
as the constituencies of Congressmen and de-
mand a stay in the proceedings against this 
people.
	Miss Nellie Colebrook then read a poetical
address by
		MRS. REBA PRATT,
which lack of space prevents us from pub-
lishing at this time. It will no doubt appear in a
subsequent number.
	After the choir sang a piece composed by
Bishop O. F. Whitney,
			DR. E. R. SHIPP
spoke as follows:

SISTERS AND FRIENDS:
	We consider that in our case patience and 
endurance have ceased to be a virtue, and we
cannot longer restrain our feelings of wounded
dignity and subdued indignation, when all that
is held dear by us is trampled upon and our
most sacred rights and privileges withheld
from us. Our fathers, husbands, brothers and 
sons, and, indeed, many of our honored and
respected ladies are exiled from their homes
and forced to flee from the minions of the
law. Those whom we love and honor and who re-
spect and honor us are imprisoned, obliged to 
share the cells of vile and wicked men, and
even to wear the badges of shame and infamy.
And for what? We have dared to worship
God according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences. This is our grievous offense. A cer-
tain tenet of our religious faith our opponents
cannot countenance, because so contrary to
their own sinful practices. The evil results of
these practices we have personally observed,
particularly in the hospitals of the world, 
where fallen women seek the shelter they can-
not obtain from those who should have pro-
tected them instead of throwing them and their
offspring upon the mercies of a cold, unfeeling
world. By consulting the national statistics
we find New York with 30,000 women living
lives of prostitution, Chicago 20,000, Boston
and Cincinnati each 10,000 and other cities
with a like ratio according to the number of
inhabitants. Unfortunately, a record of the
opposite sex is not kept. We are accused of
being down-trodden and oppressed. We deny


[Column 1]
the charge! for we know there cannot be found
a class of women upon the earth, who occupy
a more elevated position in the hearts of their
husbands, or whose most delicate and refined
feelings are so respected as here in Utah.  Let
our work speak for us.  We are a temperate,
God-fearing, law-abiding people.  We consider
virtue and chastity the crowning ornament of
woman’s character.  Our ladies are educated
and refined, and their lives are constantly
characterized by acts of nobility, fortitude and
usefulness.
	“To err is human to forgive divine.”  We
forgive and pity our enemies, realizing that
God and one man are a great majority; and
that the Latter-day Saints will ultimately pre-
vail and triumph over the opposition of the
whole world.
	The next address was by
			LAURA HYDE MINER.

	The head of the nation has said, the welfare
of a country was centered in the homes of the
land, where the husband and the pure monoga-
mous wife ruled their children in love.  Can
he lay claim to such a home, a wife and child-
ren, heirs to a father’s fame and a mother’s
virtue?  Are the priests and sisterhoods of the
Roman Catholic chuch, bound to celibacy by
the strictest vows, doing their duty to their
country according to that standpoint?  Yet
who would dream of Congress legislating away
the bachelor’s freedom or forcing priest or nun
to sacreligious marriage.
	Another illegal point in our treatment is, all
women are disfranchised who are living with
a polygamist; the legal wife as well as the
others, for our law-makers hold that if she
lives with him to whom she was married for
better or for worse, she is equally guilty.  Yet
a learned judge has lately dragged a legal wife
into court to testify in a case again[-]t her hus-
band, holding that the wrong was against her,
so she was a competent witness and must testi-
fy, or be adjudged guilty of contempt.
	The law now pending in Congress proposes
to disorganize our institutions and apply the
surplus means to other purposes than the peo-
ple intended.  Are the religious bodies of
these United States prepared for such a prece-
dent?  We are not only pleading, protesting
and suffering for our own liberty, but for the
future freedom of every citizen of this country.
What laws are made for the benefit of the
whole nation, we are willing to abide by or
bear the penalty of their infringement without
complaint, for we know that God is able and
willing to reward His servants.  Now we wish
to bear our testimony to those that are array-
ing wives and children against their husbands
and fathers that, “With what measure ye mete
it shall be measured to you again.”
			DR. E. S. BARNEY
was the next speaker. She said:
	It is said we live in a free country, for which
our fathers fought and bled, where is enjoyed
free speech, a free press, and a right to worship
God according to the dictates of our own con-
science.  Not so; rumor has falsely spoken.
Utah is the exception.  Her history has not
been read; it has lain a closed book to the mass
of the world, and to the fifty-five millions of
people of the United States.  Not a tithe of
that number has ever heard of the peaceable,
industrious, moral and God-fearing people that
live in the little Territory of Utah, called Lat-
ter-day Saints.  Yet some few politicians,
eagar for pelf, stigmatize us as a people, and
say we are a “blot” on the body politic, and
that fifty-five million people are opposed to us.
That is a fallacy.  There are some who are
like the story of a Quaker with the dog.  He
says, “I would not hurt thee, but I’ll give thee
a bad name.”  So he turned him loose, and
cried Mad dog! Mad dog! Should a nation

[Column 2]
fold her arms and sleep, or a mother unheed
the cries of her child, that appeals to her in
distress?  Have we not appealed and protested
against oppression to the higher courts of the
land, and asked them to investigate our cause
and see if we were obedient children?  What
was the response?  The waste basket received
the protest unanswered.
	Men are imprisoned because they will not
disown their wives, and if they dare say they
believe in God,and intend to carry out His law,
they must be sent to the penitentiary.  Dare I
say I believe?  Yes, I will say more.  I know
that God has spoken from the heavens, and
that He has called and chosen His sons and
daughters to carry out His law.  Suppose it
be at the sacrifice of liberty, or even life;
after the sacrifice comes the reward, and we
can afford to wait the recompense of the Al-
mighty.  There is no righteous jurisprudence
for a Latter-day Saint in our courts here in
Utah.  In the song of the “Pauper’s Last Ride,”
the chorus is:

		“Drive fast his bones, over the stones,
		For he is a pauper whom nobody owns.”

	But the chorus of the last verse is:

		"Drive gently his bones, over the stones,
		For he is a pauper whom his Father yet owns."

	Courts and jurors need not think for one
moment, that they will not be held accountable
to God for this last ride that some of the
Saints have taken through the sickness and
distress brought upon them by this oppression.
	We do and have asked for nothing but our
rights under the government.  We ask for
just laws to be made.  We ask to peaceably
occupy our homes that we ourselves have made,
in which we intend to stay.  We ask for the
same right under government that our sister
States and Territories enjoy.
	While we honor the name of Washington,
Jefferson, Madison, Monroe and the framers of
the grand old Constitution, we cannot fail to
see the undermining power that is sapping the
vitals, the life and the essence  of our govern-
ment and honeycombing the entire fabric, and
will leave it in the near future a tottering
structure, which will disgrace the land and the
God that gave it birth.
	Why should a nation cry mad dog! mad
dog! when her capital cities are filled with
such infamy and crime?  Instead, she had
better borrow some of the examples of purity
and virtue of her polygamous sisters.  We
are learning the lessons that will give us
long life, peace and happiness, that kings and
queens might be proud to possess; and our
examples are towering heavenward, from which
source we look for the response that God has
promised—the bursting of our fetters, the
conquering of our foes, and a final millennial
reign.

			MRS. JENNIE TANNER

of Provo, was called and spoke as follows: 

SISTERS AND FRIENDS:

	We have met here to-day en masse to ear-
nestly protest against the indignities that have
recently been heaped upon members of our
sex by the courts and Federal officials, and
would-be political autocrats of this Territory.
Our mothers and sisters are dragged into court
and asked the most indecent questions; in
many cases separated from their families.
Homes are broken up and inmates scattered.
Our fathers and brothers are cast into prison
or exiled.  And for what? For obeying God-
given principles: laws revealed from heaven.
We find by reading the sacred book called the
Bible that God commanded Adam and Eve to
multiply and replenish the earth; this com-
mandment evidently was intended as much
for Eve as Adam. Hence, holy women of old,

[Column 3]
to whom God administered by sending angels
to them or appearing Himself, were anxious 
for posterity, and in some instances, as we find
recorded in sacred writ, where women that had
husbands failed to have children through some
irregularity of nature, gave] their handmaids
to their husbands to be their wives—for in-
stance, Sarah gave her handmaid Hagar to
Abraham to be his wife. After this the Lord
blessed Sarah in her old age and gave her a
son, from whom was descended Jesus of Nazar-
eth, the veritable Son of God.  Jacob was
first married to his cousin Leah, then Rachel,
and after this their handmaids, who were given
to Jacob by their mistresses in order to en-
large their families, and through the sacrifice
made by Rachel she herself became fruitful
and bore children to her husband, and the
children of these four wives were the twelve 
Patriarchs whose names are to be written on
the gates of the Holy Jerusalem which is to
descend out of heaven.  The great Prophet
Samuel was the son of Elkanah, who had two
wives, Hannah and Penninah.  Hannah had
no children, on account of which she was very
sorrowful.  She repaired to the temple on a
certain day and sought her God in prayer.
There she met with Eli, the priest; after learn-
ing that she had been offering up a petition,
he promised her that it should be granted.
God not only sanctioned polygamy, but great-
ly blessed in every way men and women who
entered into these principles.  The Apostle
Paul mentions men and women of great faith
that were in polygamy, and that they obtained
a good report on account of their faith.  I am
free to state that the principle of celestial mar-
riage is an integral part of the faith of the
Latter-day Saints, because I have an abiding
knowledge within myself of its truthfulness.
In the light of these facts, then, and in view
of the truth that in this Territory there is a
ruthless disregard for the local rights of the
people (rights inestimable to themselves and
formidable to tyrants only), I, for one, as a
consistent daughter of Utah, anxious to pro-
tect the rights and privileges of my sex, deem
it my duty to join with you in repudiating the
accusations against us, and the injustice and
extreme measures of the courts and Federal
officers of this Territory.

	The following address by

			MRS. JULIA CRUSE HOWE.

was read by Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton:		

MRS. PRESIDENT AND FRIENDS:

	In contemplating the position we as a peo-
ple occupy at the present time, politically, so-
cially, morally and religiously, attracting as
we do the attention not only of this great na-
tion, but the nations of the earth; misrepre-
sented, maligned and despised as we are, I feel
that as a woman and a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I am
proud, and would not exchange my position
with any queen or empress.  True, we are
passing through persecution.  Our noble hus-
bands and sons are imprisoned, as Christ said
they would be.  Their affectionate wives and
children are left without their protection, sub-
jected to insult and derision by their inquisitors,
and many left without means of sustenance—
not however to the cold charities of the world
—for as a people, if one suffers, all suffer; and
thanks to our Heavenly Father, who causes
His sun to shine on the evil as well as on the
good, there is enough for all, and it will prove
us as a people, whether or not we love our
neighbor as ourselves.  The young who might 
have been deceived into believing the object of
our religious persecutors to be the correcting of
our morals are thoroughly convinced to the
contrary through their lying and misrepresenta-
tions.  How we honor and admire our noble
sires and husbands for their integrity.  They


gave us the right of franchise that our now
would-be reformers would deprive us of.  We
are called the down-trodden women of Utah;
but we know that the liberty and privileges we
enjoy will compare favorably with those of any
other people on the face of the earth.
	I am sorry for the rulers of this nation, that
they should allow themselves to be blinded by
prejudice and misrepresentations of a few ad-
venturers, who are hungering and lusting after
the pleasant homes and property of the law-
abiding, God-fearing people of this community.
But they are fulfilling prophecies.  I am sorry
for this nation because they are fighting against
high heaven, and I pray that their eyes may
be opened to this fact before it is too late.
	On motion it was declared the sense of the
meeting that Congress be memorialized,and the
following committee were appointed:
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Dr.
R. B. Pratt, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Salt Lake City;
Mrs. Johns, Provo;  Mrs. Pitchforth, Nephi;
Mrs. H. C. Brown, Ogden;  Miss Ida I. Cook,
Logan;  Miss Ida Coombs, Payson.
	After singing by the choir, Mrs. Zina D.
Young spoke a few words of exhortation to the
ladies, and offered the benediction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MORMONS AGAIN.

	Senator Edmunds' bill, confiscating the
church property of the Mormons, has not had
a tendency to bring out the best and most
Christ-like principles of that people.  It was
an act unworthy of the great nation; there is
no question that some of the Mormons are as
honest and conscientious in their belief in
polygamy as Senator Edmunds is in his religi-
ous belief.  It is well known by all that there
is a large class of Mormons who are earnest
in, and upholders of, the Mormons religion,
with that single exception of the doctrine of
polygamy; yet this latter class must suffer with
their more extreme brothers.  Putting this all
aside, Edmunds’ bill cannot be considered the
proper way to deal with this question.  If it is
a crime, it is at the same time a religion, and
the extremists who condemn it the most would
condemn Shakerism, and that is a religion
also. We have scanned very closely the
columns of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a paper
published in Salt Lake City, and we find it
teeming with a pure,ennobling,fervent,and for-
giving spirit that is not excelled, if equaled, by
any religious paper among our exchanges, and
that is what called forth this article, for we
expected to see a less Christian spirit exhibit
itself under this new attitude of our govern-
ment.—Peabody Reporter.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Miss Alice Longfellow held a large card re-
ception on Saturday, the first entertainment
that has been given in the classic old Craigie
house since the death of the poet. 

	John B. Gough is said to have had what is
called a strong presentiment that he would not
survive the present year.  He frequently told
his friends that he would never see seventy, 
which he would have been in August, 1888.  

	At the regular meeting of the Shakespeare
Society in Columbia College last night the
copy of the second folio of Shakespeare, dis-
covered in Utah some months ago, bears upon
the fly leaf autograph signatures, which are
said to be those of Shakespeare and John
Ward, the actor. 

	A concession has been granted by the Swiss
Government to a firm of electrical engineers
at Geneva for making a railway up Mont Sal-
ene, near that place.  The line will be made
with a central track very similar to that of the


Rigi line, the toothed pinion which works in-
to it being driven by machinery.
	The first settlers of Suffolk county brought
with them the Bible, and in some of these
were bound selections from Psalms set to grand
chorals. J. Lyon Gardiner, the present
owner of Gardiner's Island, has the Bible
which belonged to his ancestor, Lyon Gardiner,
who built the first fort at Saybrook, Conn.
This book was printed in London in 1599. It
contains the book of Psalms, with musical
notes. A like volume is in the family of the
late Hon. Silas Horton, Southold. It belonged
to the first Barnabas Booth, who was in
Southold in 1640. The Huguenots brought
the French Testaments with them. The Testa-
ments contained one hundred and fifty Psalms
set to chorals with a note to every syllable. A 
copy of this work is owned by J. H. Bornean,
of Southold.
	The Queen of Portugal is reputed the best
dressed lady in Europe. Her original style of
beauty associated with her exquisite taste and
her enjoyment of abundant means to gratify
her well-skilled choice of colors, fit, and ma-
terial, give her supremacy in the realm of
dress and adornment. But the lineage of the
distinguished lady who shares the honors of 
royalty with King Luis I. is of the highest,
and gives her family relations with some of
the proudest reigning houses of Europe. Queen
Pia is the youngest daughter of the late King
Vittorio Emanuele, of Italy, and sister, of
course, of King Umberto I. She was born
Oct. 16, 1857, and was married Oct. 6, 1862,
before she was 15 years old, to King Luis, who
had succeeded his brother, Pedro V., less than
a year before that time. Her husband is nine
years older than she. The royal couple have
two children, both boys. One of them, Prince
Carlos, Duke of Braganza, was born Sept. 28,
1863, and the other, Prince Affonso, Duke of
Oporto, on July 31, 1865.


﻿OBITUARY.
	DIED, at Riversdale, Oneida Co., Idaho, Feb. 20 1886, 
of dropsy, Emma C. Vail, daughter of Peter and Mary
Ann Preece, aged 22 years and 14 days. She was born in 
Franklin, Oneida Co., Idaho, 6 of Feb. 1864, and leaves
one little girl, one month and 24 days old. She was a 
member of the Relief Society and was assistant secretary 
in the same. She died in full faith of the gospel and in 
the hope of a glorious resurrection.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock o[-]
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 30[-], SALT LAKE CITY. 

For Sale at this Office.

Books by Eliza R. Snow.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in moroccco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco.	1.50	"

[Column 2]
	﻿“Domestic!”
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[Text sideways on left side of drawing of sewing machine]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Text on sideways on right side of drawing of sewing machine]
Will do Finer of Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years. 

	Young Brothers,
33 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building.
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,	
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[Drawing of hand pointing to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

AT 	TEASDEL'S	
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,

	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1886.				No. 21.


[Column 1]
			EMILY BLACKBURN.

Far in the dim old forest
	The settler's cabin stood;
The walls were built of great hewn logs,
	The rafters strong and good;
And boughs of pine o'erlaid with rush,
	The cold and rain withstood.

Before his open doorway
	The Humboldt River rolled.
Where sunrise laid its silver,
	And sunset threw its gold;
And on its rippling current, night
	Cast wealth of gems untold.

The varying sunlight wrought there
	Each passing hour in change,
'Mid leaf and flower and shadow
	Fresh pictures, rare and strange;
In endless beauty all around,
	Far as the eye could range.

And with the river's music
	The wild birds chimed their song,
They woke her with the morning light,
	And charmed her all day long;
Ah! who would dream could enter there
	A word or deed of wrong.

All day, through other sounds, she heard
	Back through the the forest ring
His busy axe, and, sweetest sound,
	The songs he loved to sing;
And by these tokens cheerful wrought,
	As hours their flight did wing.

Yet through the grand old forest
	Crossed here and there a trail,
At sight—her voice its song would hush,
	Her dainty cheek turn pale,
And in her loving heart, at this,
	The spring of strength would fail.

There came at last the dreaded sound,
	His ear a footstep caught—
His watchful eye and anxious heart
	Stern vigilance had taught—
And through the loophole, by the stars,
	Discerned the foe he sought.

His rifles good, he reached and placed
	Them by his side, and looked
Where she beside the cheerful hearth
	Half musing, smiled; he shook
And paled with love and fear for her,
	As her white hand he took.

"Emily, nerve thy heart to-night
	My own brave help to be;
Fast as you can, mould by the fire
	This lead in balls for me,
And make no cry of fear, my girl,
	For morn will see us free."

She knelt before the glowing flames,
	And as they leaped and roared,
With eager haste and steady hand
	The molton lead she poured,
And watched the bullets fill her bowl
	As misers count their hoard.

Till all were done, then rising, took
	His empty rifle, too;
He heard the sound and turned to her—
"Dear wife, what would you do?"
"Don't leave your loophole, Tom, and I
	Will load the guns for you."

"God bless you, Emily, be sure
	You load the rifles right;"
"God bless you, Tom, don't think of me—
Be sure that you aim right."
And never once again they spoke
	Through all that equal night.

[Column 2]
He watched beneath the starlight cold,
	And saw as each one came—
He threw toward the cabin wall
	A pine knot all aflame,
But by its light the answ'ring ball
	Sped with unerring aim.

She knew not of the cruel brands,
	But heard what chilled each vein—
Yet spoke no word, for love of him,
	As sparing his heart's pain—
His father calling through the wood—
	Calling for help, in vain.

The morning came; the cabin stood
	Unharmed—the foe had fled;
Their fallen comrades strewed the ground,
	His father, too, lay dead,
And Tom—his curling nut brown locks
	Were white upon his head.

That night of terror and of woe
	Wrought surely day by day,
Till reason yielded 'neath its stress
	And memory died away; 
Nor even her sweet face or voice
	Evoked an answering ray.

And Emily, for her babes' sakes,
	Surmounted every woe,
True heroine, where life and death
	Commingled in their flow:
I love her still, as when I met,
	And learned her story years ago.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

South Bountiful, March 8th, 1886.


[Column 1]
"LOOK HERE, UPON THIS PICTURE, 
AND ON THIS."

	The contrast implied by these words of the
immortal bard never found fitter application 
than in the treatment the Latter-day Saints
receive from their traducers and those who 
think it their mission to oppress them, and the
opposite course pursued towards the latter by
the victims of their diabolical hatred. This is 
especially manifest right here, in what is known 
as "the stronghold of Mormonism," where
many of the most unscrupulous enemies of 
this people live, move and have their being, 
unmolested by a single act of aggression or re-
taliation. 
	We may read in the daily prints of out-
rages upon "Mormon" missionaries and their
converts, of mobbings, whippings and drivings, 
and even the assassination of humble, virtuous, 
God-fearing men, who leave their homes, wives
and children, and every social comfort, to go 
forth as wanderers for Christ's sake, to prove
their faith and integrity to His cause and scat-
ter the jewels of His Word among those who
are ignorant of its blessed import. Before our
very eyes a licentious and ribald press heaps
daily abuse and calumny upon men every-
where known to be highminded and honorable
—by none better than those who hate them
worst and abuse them most. We see helpless
women and children lied about most viciously
and branded with infamy undeserved; the
sacred memory of the dead profaned, and all 
that the living cherish and revere, held up as
targets for the blasphemy and ridicule of the
ungodly. And all this because the ones so 
persecuted are “Mormons” and hold to a differ-
ent belief regarding the life here and hereafter, 
to those entertained by their good, kind, Chris-
tian would-be reformers. 
	Moreover, efforts are continually being made,

[Column 2]
in  many instances with success, to lead our 
children away, under pretense of giving them
a free education, from the holy faith which
their fathers and mothers, rather than relin-
quish, would die for. Some of our youth are 
seduced from wisdom's ways and virtue's paths
by the wily arts of the libertine, the gambler, 
and those who earn a livlihood by inheriting
the curse pronounced upon him who "putteth
the cup to his neighbor's lips;" by those of 
smooth face and oily tongue, who clasp hands
with these so-called agents of reform, and hav-
ing "stolen the livery of heaven to serve the
devil in," prostitute the sacred calling they 
thus usurp to subserve their selfish ends and
desires. Our brethren and sisters are hunted 
down as by sleuth-hounds; the sanctity of the
fireside and the sick chamber is invaded, 
fathers and husbands are dragged from the
bosom of their families dependent upon them 
for support, harassed by vexatious suits, 
trumped-up charges and the unwarranted as-
sumptions of small-souled minions of the law; 
held in custody or forced to give exorbitant
bail; insulted, brow-beaten and abused in court, 
and then thrust into prison and punished be-
fore fairly or finally convicted of the offences
charged against them. Mothers, sisters and
wives are summoned before secret tribunals, 
inquisitorial commissioners and grand juries, 
as witnesses against their natural and legal
protectors; catechised indecently by individuals
clothed with an evanescent authority calling
themselves "good men and true,', and wearing
indeed the shape of men, but proving by their
conduct in some instances that from their unre-
generate breasts the last spark of manhood, 
if it ever existed there, has departed. 
	Such things this people have endured and
are enduring still, and yet are patient and fore-
bearing, and the authors and perpetrators of 
these and kindred acts of oppression are as
free as the air they breathe, so far as hindrance
or retaliation is concerned, and entirely so ex-
cept as they are the veriest slaves of their own 
bad passions and the spirit of wrong-doing
which has fastened its shackles upon them.
	Who is it, having eyes to see, ears to hear, 
and a heart to understand, but knows that if a
"Mormon" or any number of his co-religionists 
were to intrude into any other community on 
earth and attempt the high-handed, unwarrant-
able procedure that is witnessed here in Utah
from day to day, and of which they are the
patient victims, it would raise such a clamor
and indignant uproar as the thunders of hea-
ven could scarcely silence? Simply change
the location and the contrast between the
pictures is sublime. 
	Let a "Mormon" school teacher go into a
"Christian" city and endeavor by gilded baits
of free education or other inducements to woo
the children of the Gentiles from the religion
of their parents, adding to such efforts the
practice so common among the institutors and
promoters of sectarian schools in Utah, of
making periodical visits to his fellow-believers
at a distance, and after slandering the people
in whose midst he is laboring, returns laden
with a rich harvest of dollars reaped from the
field of falsehood he has sown, to "continue
the good work" of reclaiming the Gentile
youth by inveigling them into what their
fathers and mothers consider by and forbidden
paths. Let him do this, then witness the
mild (?) and peacable (?) results that would
follow.


Again, what if a "Mormon" press should
establish itself in the very heart of St. Louis,
Chicago, or any other city of our land and
persistently and wilfully falsify, blackguard
and abuse the most reputable and respected
citizens, without the slightest shadow of ex-
cuse, except the one we so often hear in these
parts, that its object was to Mormonize
"(Americanize") and turn them from the ways
their consciences tell them to walk in, to the
path of a so-called social and political salva-
tion. Suppose that through these continued,
heaped up, and pressed down, assaults on priv-
ate character, the name of a resident of St.
Louis or Chicago should become so feared and
hated that right here in our own city of Salt
Lake, peaceable gentile merchants or "Chris-
tian" missionaries should be shot down by
"Mormon" mobs, fired to the commisson of the
bloody deeds by the outrageous calumnies set
afloat and carried to Utah by said "Mormon"
newspaper, whose existence we are for the
sake of argument supposing.
	Suppose, still, that the machinery of the
courts and the administration of the law were
exclusively in the "Mormon" hands, and
they, though bigotry and hatred of everything
Gentile, should stretch and strain the author-
ity they held to the same extent that is now
being done in the vexatious prosecutions of
which they themselves are made the victims,
for the purpose of convicting, fining and im-
prisoning&nbsp;Gentiles, breaking up their families
and bringing them into a bondage more to be
dreaded than death, which to freemen would
seem sweet by comparison. Would any peo-
ple less patient and longsuffering than the Lat-
ter-day Saints be contented with anything
short of a revolution? And would they not
have cause? Surely as just and sufficient as
that which kindled the fires of Bunker Hill
and Yorktown, and caused earth to reverber-
ate with the echoes of the sublime declaration
that all men are created equal and endowed
by their Creator with the inalienable rights of
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
	But the Latter-day Saints are more patient
than their patriotic sires of a century ago.
They know, like the immortal Patrick Henry,
that "there is a just God in heaven, who
watches over the destinies of men and nations,"
and they have confided their cause to Him who
has sworn to fight their battles for them.
	This is why they can bear and forbear to
the uttermost, patiently suffering the slights
and insults of those who ride rampant over
law, order and every legal restriction to op-
press them; who would rule that they
might ruin and resolve order back into chaos
that they might revel in the anarchy, confu-
sion and degradation that would follow. Look
at some of those who walk our streets, slaves
of vice and paid tools of tyranny, boasting of
what they have already done and intend fur-
ther to do against the peace and good order
of an innocent, God-fearing and industrious
people who permit them  unmolested and un-
questioned, to fulminate their vile threats and
execute their viler acts within their very bor-
ders. Look at them, and ask yourselves if
the pictures here endeavored to be painted do
not furnish as complete and striking a con-
trast as any that past or present times can boast.
					ORSON F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MOLEN.
	A Relief Society was organized in Molen
Ward, Emery Stake of Zion, Feb. 7th. Fol-
lowing are the names of the officers. Ann
Rasmussen Prest.; Mary L. Hansen and
Dicintha Stringham, Counselors; Esther A. 
Fieldsted, Secretary, Emily Cook, Treasurer.

[Column 2]

All were set apart by the presidency of the 
Stake.
		E. A. FIELDSTED, Secretary.

KOOSHAREM.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We thought a few lines from this out of the
way place might be of interest to your valua-
ble paper. Our Relief Society is in a pretty
fair condition and the sisters are all striving
to serve the Lord and are alive to their duties.
we are enjoying good health and feel well in
the Gospel of Christ. We know that our ene-
mies are persecuting us on the right and on
the left, but this will only make Latter-day
Saints more humble and live nearer to the
Lord. It is necessary that trials come in order
that we may be proved, for the Lord says He
wants a tried people. We know the Lord is
on our side, so we have nothing to fear; if we
do our part He will do His, and He will help
us.
		MARGRETTE ANDERSON, Prest.
		JOSEPHA O. WRIGHT, Sec. pro-tem.

CEDAR CITY.
	Our Quarterly Conference was held at Cedar
City, on the 7th of Feb., a good spirit and
feeling prevailing. The branches of the Stake
were reported as being in a favorable condi-
tion, the members alive to their duties, and 
anxious to assist in the support and building
up of the kingdom of God. Much good in-
struction was imparted by our President, Sister
E. Lunt, who was moved upon to a marked
degree to speak words of encouragement and
exhortation to the sisters. 
	A vacancy having occurred in the Presi-
dency, occasioned by the death of Sister H. A. 
Mitchell, Sister Sage T. Jones was appointed
Second Counselor. Appropriate resolutions of
respect to the memory of Sister Mitchell were
adopted by the Society, and ordered spread
upon our minutes. She was universally re-
spected, for she cultivated that true charity
which flows from a sense of duty and hope in
God. She was a woman possessed with rare
abilities of practical usefulness and persever-
ance in well doing.
	Ever praying for the interests of Zion, and
that success may attend you in your labors in
behalf of the women of Utah, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
		SARAH CHATTERLY, Sec.

TOOELE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Young Ladies' and Primary Associa-
tions was held in the Tooele meeting house,
March 13th and 14th, 1886, Mrs. M. A. Hunter
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
Prest. Hunter made a few opening remarks,
during which Sisters Presendia Kimball and
Helen Mar Whitney arrived from Salt Lake
City. Sister Kimball was the first speaker;
She gave a great deal of good counsel and ad-
vice, suitable to all the Saints, both old and
young.
	Sister Whitney spoke very interestingly,
with remarks to suit all, and encouraged all to
live up to their privileges, for we live in very
critical times. She believed that this crusade
would hasten the time when the Lord would
cut His work short in righteousness, and it is
for us to live humble before the Lord. She
spoke at some length in a very encouraging
manner to the sisters on celestial marriage, and
of the great blessings that are in store for all
who live for them. 
	Bishop Atkins was well pleased with the
good instructions the sisters had given, and
urged all to adhere to them.
	The afternoon session, commencing at 2 p.m.,
was for the Primary Conference, Sister Sarah

[Column 3]

Hale, Stake President of the Primary, carried
out the day's programme, consisting of songs,
recitations and dialogues, all of which were
well rendered by the children. The visiting
sisters gave good instructions to the children,
dwelling on honoring their parents and attend-
ing to their prayers.
	In the evening, at 7 o'clock, the young
ladies held their Conference. The Secretary
read the minutes, and also the reports, all of
which were accepted. Verbal reports were
given by the presidents of the Tooele and
Grantsville associations, which showed them in
good running order. Sister Whitney addressed
the audience, which was very large, including
both young ladies and young men, giving
good counsel to the young of both sexes on
many interesting subjects. Other speakers
were Bro. George Atkin, Jun. and Bro. O. O.
Houly. After singing, benediction was uttered
by Bro. Gillespie.
	On Sunday morning the sisters attended and
addressed the Sunday School. In the after-
noon the Relief Society Conference was con-
tinued. After the Sacrament was administered,
the brethren and sisters from Salt Lake City
all spoke of the perilous times that we live in,
and encouraged the Saints to live in such a
way that they can call down the blessings of
God upon them. Bro. C. Hunderson also 
made a few remarks, encouraging the brethren
and sisters to faithfulness, and invoked the
blessing of God upon all.
	Sisters Kimball and Whitney stopped all
the week and visited and cheered the sisters,
for they were full of blessings, and on Saturday
returned home to the city.
		ANN TATE,
	Cor. Sec. for Tooele Stake.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Only the true man can really be brave, only
the righteous man walk through the darkness
and face with serene soul the mystery of life.

	Bodily exercise, though absolutely necessary
to secure health and vigor, if persisted in be-
yond certain limits, will end in breaking down
the very power it has been building up.

	It is a mistaken idea that, if a little of any-
thing is good a great deal must be correspond-
ingly better. It may be so, but not unless its
due relations to other things are equally pre-
served. Few things are stronger than steam
when used and confined within working limits,
and but few weaker than the same steam
floating in thin vaporous clouds and filling
large areas of space. So it is not simply the
possession of large wealth, or great knowledge
or high station, or much authority, that will
make any man powerful and valuable, but the
way in which he uses what he has.

	True independence consists in the posses-
sion and improvement of resources within one’s
own self. There is a sense in which self-suffi-
ciency is a laudible trait of character. It is
far different from self-assertion, which may be
Ishmaelitish, turning the hand against every
man. And it is just as far removed from that
weak dependence upon others which leads one
to look for aid at all times, and for constant
society and companionship in occupation and
in amusement. Social intercourse and con-
versation are a part, and a very large part, of
all our lives. Both improvement and pleasure
depend upon our well-selected friendships.
Still he is a poor companion for others who can
do nothing for himself. He who has nothing in
him has nothing to impart to his friends. He
has no capital to go upon in the social ex-
change which promotes the intelligent life of
man.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY JEWELS.

Step to the door with me,
Notice, and there you see
	Mary, our only sweet child;
Not rarely beautiful,
But, oh! so dutiful,
	Gentle and loving and mild!

Ah! she is strong and well—
What a blest thing to tell!
	Sportive and active, you see;		
Bright as a summer's noon,
Not two years old till June,
	Yet people take her for three.

Oft, though so young, she proves
Wise in her little moves;
	Character shows of much force.
Generous and just and kind, 
Not wanting strength of mind,  
	Just like her papa, of course.

Speak of that father then,
Noblest and best of men,
	Gives, with true wisdom and sense,
Love that is strong and pure,  
Faith that will still endure, 
	Through the eternities hence.

Love which all pleasure brings,
Yet "works as well as sings,”
	For our dear baby and me;
Were I not happy now, 
Where must I live and how,	
	That I might happiness see?

Wifehood and motherhood,
These are my jewels good;
	Treasures of heavenly worth;
Pity, whoe'er hath sold,
Such for mere shining gold,
	And the vain baubles of earth!
								LULA.


﻿MIGNONETTE.

	I believe I was the first person who raised mignonette in
this city. A friend in England sent me some seeds in a
letter, and I planted it in a pot and raised it to a tree. My
verses will tell the rest.

		My green-leaved beauty! how I hailed
			Thy advent with delicious joy!
		My careful watches never failed
			To keep thy life without alloy.

		I gave thee heat, and light, and air,
			And water from a living stream;
		I watched thy life with zealous care,
			To keep thy beauties fresh and green.

		My green-leaved beauty was the name 
			I lovingly bestowed on thee,
		Apostrophizing by the same
			The being I rejoiced to see!

		Ah, sad it is to see decay
			The thing we love, perhaps idolize!
		Yet death has often led that way
			My mourning heart, and weeping eyes.

		I could not see thee day by day
			The fell destroyer's victim made,  
		The hand of love alone could lay
			Thee in the grave that love had made.

		No, No, I will not wait to see
			Thy treasured flower droop and die,
		My hand cuts short the dying tree
			My hand in love shall lay it by.

		Dear plant! and wilt thou rise again
			When all things are to life restored?
		Yes, thou, my beauty; shall regain
			Thy place among my treasured hoard.

		No thought but such as lives in heaven
			E'er breathed upon thy perfum'd frame,
		Love was the incense ever given,
			Which shall immortalize thy name.

		My green-leaved beauty fare thee well,
			Till past the winter of the grave— 
		Immortal flower thou then shalt dwell
			And resurrected glories have.


And will thou not regain a voice
		That to my ear will breathe of love?
	E'en in beatitude rejoice
		My soul in mansions up above?

	I do believe—I do believe
		United thou wilt be to me!
	All that is good, I shall receive,
		And good I felt in loving thee!
							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
		MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT.
	
	Ever since the organization of the Mutual
Improvement societies, much has been said
concerning the development of the faculties
God has given us. One may say, “All that is
necessary to be said has been said.” This may
be true, but “it is a wise man who doeth what
he is told for the first time of telling.” Al-
lowing the supposition that we are not all “wise
men,” I will endeavor to point out a few ways
whereby we might improve.
	In the first place it is necessary to under-
stand why we are here upon the earth, what is
our relation to our fellow-beings, and what our
destination after this mortal career is ended.
After these facts have been fully established,
it is time to begin the improvement of our
temporal and spiritual attributes.
	Improvement may be effected in many ways.
One good way is by observation. If we have
good men and women placed over us for our
guidance, we cannot help admiring their good-
ness and intellectual perfections. If we could
fully understand the depth of the impressions
left upon the minds of the young, I think
we would be more exemplary in our habits
and manners than we sometimes are.
Not wishing to be termed acritic, but
speaking only from past experience, I
can truthfully say that impressions were
made upon my mind that have been effaced
when the true character of the individual, con-
sisting only of superficial perfections, was
brought to light.
	Now we all know that the weakness of the
flesh and the vanities of the human mind, when
brought to bear upon spiritual things and sub-
jects of high moral culture, will inevitably tend
towards the grosser qualities of our nature,
unless propitiated by truly practical as well as
theoretical influences. Considering the advan-
tage of exemplary lives, would it not be well
for all who are, or ever expect to be placed in
positions of usefulness, to “practice first what
they preach,” that they might be more success-
ful in the fulfilment of their callings?
	Notwithstanding all this, however, if the
members have no desire to improve, and have
but little, if any, faith in their holy religion,
the precepts of the most zealous, most exem-
plary and wisest of teachers will amount to
but little.  I fully believe that the desires of
the majority are good, and resolves are made
every time meeting is attended to improve at
once, but when the labor and diligence neces-
sary for this work is brought into requisition,
courage fails, and the would-be reformer falls
back into the same old condition, until a new
revival of feeling is experienced. Now it is
all very well to have this feeling, but, if we
wish to improve, we will have to come right
down to hard study in real earnestness, and,
though the improvement may not be seen at
first, there is a gradual development of the
faculties that will, in time, shine forth in bril-
liancy and power, bringing credit and renown
wherever our lot in life may be cast. In
order to gain this desired end let us live so
that the Holy Spirit may always be with us,
for P. P. Pratt says, “The Holy Spirit quickens
all the intellectual faculties, increases, en-
larges, expands and purifies all the natural
passions and affections, and adapts them, by
the gift of wisdom, to their lawful use. It in-

[Column 2]
spires, develops, cultivates and matures all the
fine toned sympathies, joys, tastes, kindred
feelings and affections of our nature. It in-
spires virtue, goodness, tenderness, gentleness
and charity. It develops beauty of person,
form and features. It strengthens, invigorates
and gives tone to the nerves. In short, it is,
as it were, marrow to the bone, joy to the
heart, light to the eyes, music to the ear, and
life to the whole being.”
	[The foregoing essay was written and read
by Mrs. Hattie Jensen at the late Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference in Brigham City.—ED.]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Madame Patti has been offered six thousand
dollars a night to sing in concerts in South
America.

	Miss Cleveland denies that she wrote the
much quoted statement of her views on the
matter of low-necked dresses. But she says
that it expresses her sentiments.

	Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett has nearly
finished a new novel, which will appear in the
Century. Its completion has been delayed by
her illness.

	Miss Abigail Bates, one of the two women,
who, with fife and drum, were instrumental in
driving the British from Scituate Harbor dur-
ing the war of 1812, died last week at the age
of eighty-nine years. She was the last of a
long-lived family.

	Letters attributed to Miss Cleveland on the
subject of dress have caused much comment
pro and con. Perhaps it would be useful to
consider how bare shoulders and arms would
be regarded if men appeared with them in
public. The force of custom has much to do 
with modes of dress. But in our climate
reasons of health, if not of modesty, require
ample protection for the body.

	Dr. Mary Alice Avery wins the reward of
public official recognition at the hands of Dr.
Richardson, for a deed of heroism which he
well designates as "the bravest act of the fire
of February 12." Dr. Avery, at great per-
sonal peril and with wonderful courage and
coolness, rescued an insane patient, who was
shut up in her room at the extreme end of the
fourth-story hall. It was a plucky deed that
should not have waited a whole year for its ac-
knowledgment.—Bulletin.

	Miss Augusta Holmes has nearly finished
composing an opera. She has chosen as her
subject an antique legend of Erin, and has
composed her own libretto. Miss Holmes
spent last autumn in London, studying the
ancient Irish mss. in the British Museum. Her
compositions are played in the concerts of the
conservatoire in Paris, and her symphony on
her favorite theme, "Ireland," has been re-
ceived with acclamation by the French public
and critics.

	The public hearing given by the U.S. House
Committee on Territories, at the Capitol, in
Washington, on Friday, March 19, on the
petition of the American Woman Suffrage
Association, for a law guaranteeing women
equal suffrage in the Territories, was a notable
event. Delegate Carey, of Wyoming, gave
emphatic testimony to the benefit which has
resulted from woman suffrage during sixteen
years' trial in that territory. Representative
John D. Long spoke with effective earnest-
ness in behalf of the proposed legislation.
The addresses of Rev. Annie H. Shaw and
Mrs. Mary Hunt were excellent, and Mr. 
Blackwell made a strong presentation of the
facts justifying and demanding prompt affirma-
tive action on the part of Congress.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah, Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.	
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,		-		-		APRIL 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO THE SISTERS AT HOME.

TO THE WOMEN OF UTAH, IN MASS MEETING
		ASSEMBLED, MARCH 6TH, 1886.

MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:

	Though absent from your midst on this momen-
tous occasion, I am with you in heart and feeling.
Would I were with you, though it is in trying to
benefit our common cause, and not from choice,
that I am still away. Ye are my people, and I can
say as Ruth to Naomi, "Whither thou goest I will
go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge; thy peo-
ple shall be my people, and thy God my God."
	I rejoice in the demonstration you are making
to-day in protesting against indignities, cruelties
and grievous wrongs. It is the duty of every
citizen of the United States to stand boldly forth
in defense of freedom, justice and the rights of
conscience; the people owe this loyalty to their
country, and to this free government established
"by the people and for the people."
	If the women of Utah did not publicly protest
against the indignities and insults that are almost
daily being offered to their sister women, under
pretense of carrying out the provisions of the Ed-
munds law, they would be unworthy the name they
bear, "the women of Zion," and the religion they
have espoused, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
gives freedom to all mankind, both Jew and Gen-
tile, bond and free.
	Our honored forefathers fought for the freedom
of this goodly land, and our noble ancestors, the
Pilgrim band,left home, kindred and the graves of
their dead, and their native country, to find a place
of refuge in which to worshipGod according to the
dictates of their own consciences, enduring the
perils of the mighty deep then unexplored, and of
the wilderness, where savage Indians and beasts
of prey had roamed unmolested from time imme-
morial. And when oppressed and tyrranized over
by unjust men and taxed without representation by
the nation that had refused to them the right to
worship God in the way that seemed to them the
best—they resisted it even to the imperiling of
their lives in that great contest of which we are
all so justly proud—the war of the Revolution.
You know its history, and the blood of those im-
mortalized heroes flows in the veins of hundreds
of the Latter-day Saints.
	You know, too, the sentiments embodied in that
glorious instrument the "Declaration of Independ-
ence," given by inspiration of God. And shall
we not maintain our rights under the Constitution
we are proud to honor, and in accordance with its
provisions, which give to every individual freedom
to worship God as his heart dictates? And have
we not the right when it expressly declares and
definitely states that, "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof?" Yet the
Congress of the United States has passed such a
law and the Supreme Court of the land has de-
clared it constitutional. That law, hard and

[Column 2]
cruel as it seems to us, must be obeyed or the
penalty submitted to, because it has been voted
upon by the majority of those who are empowered
to act for the people, and the masses of the people
who know comparatively nothing of the "Mor-
mons" have decided the matter for them, without
investigation, on the representation of others, and
popular sentiment.
	We are constantly being told that "the fifty-five
millions of people in the United States are deter-
mined to blot out polygamy." Would that the
fifty-five millions of people who are so unrelenting-
ly arrayed against a mere handful to abolish a plu-
rality of wives, would enforce some measure to
secure life, liberty and property and protect virtue,
innocence and the honor of this great people from
the insidious ravages that are eating away the
very life of the nation, destroying the purity of the
young and sapping and undermining the founda-
tions of all that is noblest and best in the struc-
ture of modern society. The proof is apparent
everywhere, that there is a mighty work to do in
the world outside of Utah, and it is not confined
to New England, or New York, Philadelphia or
Washington.
	The women of this fair land are menaced with 
something far more dreadful and nearer home
than a plurality of wives, and there is not a day, if
one observes outside her own immediate home, no,
not an hour, that the sensitive heart is not pained
with the wrongs and the sorrows of women and 
children.
	That greater liberty has been given to women in
our Chnrch than elsewhere is indeed true; that
more equality of sex prevails is undeniable; that
men and women have always voted equally upon
all ecclesiastical matters is a well known fact, and
the utmost freedom of speech has been the right
and privilege of women in the Church from the
first. That all this has been elevating in its ten-
dency, and educational to women every careful
observer must readily perceive. The aim and in-
fluence of our institutions has been to lift woman
up to a higher standard of thought and intelligence,
to protect and guard virtue, to promote self-reli-
ance, and individual development; and it is a
principle of our religion to teach our girls as well
as our boys self-protection, and to instruct our
boys, as well as our girls, that virtue and chastity
are just as essential in man as in woman.
	In common with you I protest mostly solemnly 
and emphatically against the harsh and cruel
measures now being enforced upon our people,
and especially our women and young mothers, who
are from time to time insulted, and every fine feel-
ing of their nature abused, their delicacy and sen-
sibility wounded and outraged by men who are
coarse and cruel; who show no true respect for
womanhood, no regard for the sacredness of
motherhood, And with you I appeal to the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States for pro-
tection from these insults and wrongs to woman,
and would beseech and entreat them for that com-
mon respect and justice to young women and
mothers which the Judges and Courts of the Terri-
tory refuse in every instance to grant,though know-
ing, as they must know, how they violate the most
sacred rights and privileges reserved to woman in
all civilized countries, whatever her condition or
station in life may be.
	And with you I protest against the en-
forcement of any section of a bill, before
it has been made a law according to the 
regular form and order of the government,
and also against unjust Judges and their co-labor-
ers, who pervert and misinterpret the law, and 
usurp power and authority that Congress and the 
Courts have not yet conferred upon them. Com-
pelling a first wife to testify against her husband
is contrary to law, and to the established custom
that has obtained in all ages, and in all civilized
countries, and to threaten with pains and penalties
for refusing to comply with such a requisition is a

[Column 3]
thing unheard of in a country that boasts of its
higher enlightenment, and unbounded protection
to the weaker sex.
	The proposition of Senator Edmunds to dis-
franchise the women of Utah Territory, who have
been invested with the right of suffrage so many
years is simply an act of despotism unworthy a 
man, and can only be aimed at the mere trifle of
political power he would selfishly wrest from
those who have been accused of no offense even
against the Edmunds law; but he hopes perchance
by thus robbing a few defenseless women to throw
the balance of the vote in favor of his own party.
It is not sufficient punishment for this wronged
and persecuted people, to disfranchise all plural 
wives, imprison and banish from their homes and
firesides the husbands of innocent women, and
the fathers of helpless little ones, leaving many
desolated hearths, and filling the land with mourn-
ing, but Senator Edmunds proposes to add insult 
to injury and to disfranchise those who are ac-
cused of no crime whatever. He would rob them 
of a vested right, either for party purposes, or be-
cause of religious belief, making the blow general,
to Mormon and non-Mormon alike, in order to
hide his real motive.
	In the name of justice and of right, I am with
you in indignantly protesting against all the
wrongs and cruelties perpetrated upon the people
of Utah in the name of, and under the sanction of
law; and join heart and hand with you in appeal-
ing to our countrywomen, who value the sanctity 
of home, and the sacredness of family ties, to as-
sist us in maintaining our rights under the Con-
stitution, and also memorializing the President and 
Congress of the United States, entreating them
to grant an impartial administration of the laws,
and to examine into the proceedings of courts and
juries, and take into careful consideration our
present circumstances, and prospects in the near
future, and perchance they may ascertain that
even "Mormon" women have some rights that the
country is bound to respect, and that as rational
beings they are entitled to the protection of the
government under which they live, which guran-
tees to all the rights of conscience.
				Faithfully yours,
						EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Chicago, Ill.


CORRESPONDENCE.
		Hotel Brunswick, Kansas,Mo., 
						March, 15th, 1886. 
Mrs. M. H. Whitney: 
	My Dear Sister Helen:—I have been to Nauvoo,
have seen your old home, in fact have gone over
it, even to the observatory on the top. The Ger-
man people who live in it, have kept it in good
repair, and are rather proud of the fame of its
former possessor, I think. The eldest son, mother
and daughter have died within a short time, and
the eldest one left at home to take charge is very
sorrowful. They have remodled the east wing
very much, and in fact consider it entirely new.
The barns and out-houses are all well kept.
Brigham’s house, too, is about as well preserved,
and it also has had one wing, the west one, altered.
I had very peculiar feelings in going over these
few and other remaining places of the former
greatness and prosperity of Nauvoo. As I walked
those streets, my heart cried out within me, as it
were, for the poor, oppressed and down-trodden,
driven from their homes and compelled to leave
at all hazards rightful inheritances, and indeed
all the comforts of life, plunging into the wilder-
ness unknown, and unexplored, without the very
necessities for support. What cared the mob?
and what effort was ever made to right these
wrongs? None whatever.
	There are people living in Nauvoo to-day, plen-
ty of them, that can testify to these things, have


[Column 1]
told me how they themselves were driven across
the river without food and shelter, and dare not
return until the struggle was past. Now they be-
long, most of them, to the reorganized Church,do
not believe in Brigham Young, and will not ex-
cept any testimony to show that Joseph Smith
ever received a revelation upon and taught the
principle of plural marriage. To one woman,
who related the circumstances of the skirmish
there when the Esquire took part in it, and became
convinced of the truth of the Gospsl, who told
me how she had suffered, and it was indeed pitiful,
I said, “And after enduring all that, are you not
still a Latter-day Saint?” She said, “Yes indeed
I am, but not a Brighamite. I belong to the
original Church. I know Emma was a good
woman, and true, and she persisted in denying
that Joseph ever had more wives or taught any
such doctrine. On her deathbed she declared it
to be false, that he ever had entered into or sus-
tained any such practise." I interrupted her with
this question, “Madame, you say you knew Eliza
R. Snow. If she were sitting here where I am
sitting, and declared solemly to you that Joseph
Smith did teach this doctrine to her, and that she
was actually his wife, would you believe her?"
"No," she replied, "I would not." “Then,” I
replied, "there is no use to try to convince you of
the truth in the matter. Several women have
testified before a Justice of the Peace that they
were his wives, strictly speaking, and you de-
nounce them all as impostors?” “I do!” she said.
Then she went on to tell me about Maria
Lawrence's marriage to Babbitt, and that she had
two children to him, and that she had waited upon
her when these children were born, and she had
talked with her a very great deal, and she was
sure if Maria Lawrence had been Joseph’s wife,
as afterwards represented, she would have told it
to her, Brigham married Maria Lawrence to Al-
mond Babbitt, she said,but Joseph did not practise
these things. She told me several other similar
things, evidently she had been trusted with some
things, and allowed to put her own construction
upon others. I think there are a set of cranks in
and around Nauvoo, if there ever were anywhere
in the world. They have had two or three money
schemes, but they all failed, and seem to leave
them poor. Some of the folks wish the Mormons
had stayed, and think that Nauvoo would have
been a great city by this time; others think the
place was cursed because the Mormons were
shamefully abused, and so on.
	The Icarians have left there, and the larger pro-
portion now are Germans. A great number of
Roman Catholics, who have a nice Church, rather
unpretentious, though the steple is very high,
Catholic Convent for girls, and a department for
boys. There is a small Methodist Church and a
Lutheran, but that is not open now. There is a
sort of mixture there, such as I have never seen
before; old Mormons who have  lost their faith,
but stand up for the people, another class who
have become Josephites, and then a dozen other
kinds; then Germans, French and Jews, a few of
the last, but society such as you usually find in a
town of 1,500 people appears unknown.
	One incident I want to relate to you now, lest I
should forget it when I reach home. I learned,
while in Nouvoo, that Major Bideman’s son had
recently married, supposing it to be a son of a
former wife, I was utterly astonished when, on
my call at the mansion, I was introduced to the
young bridegroom, to see he was so boyish look-
ing; however, I did not betray my surprise, but
after leaving inquired what it meant, as I had been
told this young man's mother had been married to
Major Bideman about a year after Emma's death,
and, of course, this boy must have been born dur-
ing Emma’s lifetime, so I said, “He is the Major’s
stepson or adopted son," quite innocently. "No,"
said the young man, “he is his own son, and he
married the woman after Emma’s death to right

[Column 2]
the wrong he had done her in Emma's life." "O,"
I said. “Yes," said he, “Emma sent for her to
come and wait upon her when she was lying sick,
and told the old Major to marry the woman after
she was dead. “It was the best he could do,”
said the young man. O, thought I, if Emma has
begun righting wrongs, she has plenty of work
on hand. Who can tell? Her life was no doubt
unpleasant enough, with that curious specimen of
humanity—Major Bideman. He was very cordial
with me, and he seemed to take a great deal of
pride in boasting of fighting for the Mormons, and
over and over repeated, "Yes, I did it then, and
I'd do it again." I saw Dr. Weld—he told the
same sort of thing in substance, though in a quiet
and dignified way; also Morrell, the lawyer, who
married Lavinia Hibbard; all these men, you
know, were Gentiles, but Mormon sympathizers,
sneeringly called by mobocrats, “Jack Mormons.”
If one wanted to hear how the MOBS treated the
Mormons, then let them go to Nauvoo and hear
these old settlers talk; it's enough to make one's
blood run cold.
	I have not told you much, after all, but the let-
ter is surely long enough, and I have to go out on
an errand now, but I do assure you I shall be very
glad to get home and see you once more.
	Your father's house in Kirtland has been des-
troyed, so Mary Bond told me. Such lots of
places are gone, that were good when we left
Nauvoo, even. Ruin and desolation have been
the effects after the drivings and persecutions,and
yet men will not be warned. While riding down
the river on the train from Montrose, I heard a
gentleman ask another what place that was across
the river. "That's Nauvoo," said the man, as if
with a sort of pride. “What, where those abomin-
able Mormons lived?" said the questioner. "Well,”
said the man, “everybody will not agree with you
that they are an abomination," and then went on
telling him what a charming place it was said to
be when the Mormons lived there, but the man
was furrious, and I guessed then with what horror
he would have looked upon me had he known I
was a “Mormon." So goes the world.
	Love to all the family—Lillie, Gennie, Charlie
and Flod, and Mary and her children.
				Lovingly,
							EMMELINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]					
						[For the EXPONENT.]
	DEARH OF MRS. MARINDA A. HYDE.

	"Would it be worth the having or giving, 
		The boon of endless breath? 
	Ah! for the weariness that comes of living--
		There is no cure but death. 

	Ours were indeed a fate deserving pity, 
		Were that sweet rest denied;
	And few, methinks, would care to find the city, 
		Where never any die."

	Sister Hyde was elected President of the Relief 
Society of the Seventeenth Ward Feb. 6th, 1869, 
eighteen years ago, which position she has honor-
ably and creditably filled until her death, March
24th, 1886.  She is the third of the first five offi-
cers chosen at that time who have closed their
record for this life, and gone to receive their re-
ward in a nobler and higher world. 
	Hers has been a very eventful life.  Suffering
and coming in the early days of the Church, and
being placed in many trying positions, gave her a
knowledge and experience above many. 
	She was a noble example of the Christian graces. 
When her family or friends were in trouble, she
uttered the words of comfort, of patience and
cheer.  She stood by my side while the dear life 
slipped away whose loss brought me the deepest
sorrow and acutest pain I have ever known.
While she held me in her arms, she soothed the
wild surging waters of grief, telling me that God
the Father had permitted this, that He never made
a mistake, did all things well, and, above all, loved

[column 2]
those on whom He laid His chastening hand. 
Her child-like faith, coupled with a sublime love
of God, made her a friend always to be loved, and
never to be forgotten. 
	Among our labors with the poor, when we have
been tried, she would say, "Well, God made
them, and we must make the best of them."  Thus
breathing into the Society, not only a charity in
works, but a charity for the feelings of all God's
creatures.  With us who have labored with her
so long, I trust that her example will never be
forgotten, and that the love, charity and mercy
she taught us will remain with us through life. 
According to our best ability, we have aided and
succored the poor.  Quoting the words of Jesus, 
she would say, "Remember the poor, for them we
have always," and "Even as ye do it unto the
least of these, ye do it unto me."
	To say that we shall miss her, will express but
very weakly the deep feelings of regret her death
has caused.  Yet for her sake we should be glad. 
To think that now she is not feeble, nor in pain, 
but her gentle, cheerful spirit free to enjoy the
beauties of eternal worlds, is with her loved ones
gone before, mingling with the Church of the
First Born, where she will watch and wait for her
loved ones left behind, and welcome them one by
one as they shall reach her. 
	May the blessings of God rest upon her sons
and her daughters, her relatives and friends, and
may His peace, which passeth all understanding, 
be and abide with her youngest daughter, Zina, 
who has been her companion for so many years. 
May that sweet submission to the providences of
God fill their hearts as it did hers, and may their
prayers reach unto Him who has said He would
heed the orphan's cry.  She was the mother of
ten children, six of whom, two sons and four
daughters, are left to mourn her loss.  She leaves
twenty-six grandchildren and nine great-grand
children. 
	Sister Hyde expressed her gratitude that she
had lived to see the Society Hall built, paid for
and dedicated.  About one hundred members of
the organization followed her remains, after the
mourners, from her home to the meeting house, 
where many sorrowing friends were assembled.  
Addresses were made by Apostle F. D. Richards
and J. H. Smith, who bore affecting testimonies
to her worth, integrity and faithfulness;  also by
Bishop O. F. Whitney, who said she had taken 
her recommend with her to the Church of the
First Born, and to her would be said, "Enter, thou
hast stood firm, where many have trembled; thou
hast been faithful, where many have fallen; enter
into and enjoy the presence of thy Lord!"
	Bishop Tingey bore testimony to her labors
among the poor and distressed of the ward, of
her kind and generous heart, and prayed that her
family, and the Society who had labored with her, 
would follow her noble example. 
	After the benediction had been pronounced, we
all took an affectionate adieu of Sister Hyde, 
wishing her joy, rest and peace, and congratulat-
ing her that her trials were over.  While the
friends were viewing the remains, the choir and
Society sang, "Weep, weep not for me Zion,"
which has been a funeral hymn to us, as each one
of our number have passed away. 
	A large cortege followed her remains to the
cemetery, where, after the dedicatory prayer by
Bishop Whitney, they were consigned, to await
the coming of the Son of Righteousness. 
						LYDIA D. ALDER, 
	Salt Lake City, March 27th, 1886.


THE LADIES' APPEAL

	MEMORIAL FROM THE WOMEN OF UTAH
		TO THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS.

	The committee appointed at the Ladies'
Mass Meeting on March 6th to memorialize
the President and Congress of the United


[Column 1]
States in relation to the treatment received by
the people of Utah, have completed their work,
and the following is the

			MEMORIAL.

To the Honorable President, and the Senate
	and House of Representatives of the United
	States in Congress Assembled.

	GENTLEMEN—We, you memorialists, re-
spectfully represent that at a mass meeting of
the women of Utah, held in the Theatre, Salt
Lake City, March 6, 1886, attended by over
two thousand ladies, representing the wives,
mothers, sisters and daughters of the whole
Territory, the following was unanimously
adopted:

	[Here followed the resolutions, which were
published in the last issue of this paper.—ED.]

	In pursuance of this appointment we pre-
sent the following in behalf of the women
of Utah:
	On the 22nd of March, 1882, an act of
Congress was passed which is now commonly
known as the Edmunds law. It was generally
understood to have been framed for the pur-
pose of settling what is called the Utah ques-
tion, by condoning plural marriages up to that
date and preventing their occurrence in the
future, and also to protect the home, maintain
the integrity of the family and shield innocent
women and children from the troubles that
might arise from its enforcement. But instead
of being administered and executed in this
spirit, it has been made the means of inflicting
upon the women of Utah immeasurable sorrow
and unprecedented indignities, of disrupting
families, of destroying homes, and of outrag-
ing the tenderest and finest feelings of human
nature.
	The law has been so construed by the courts
as to bring its penalties to bear upon the in-
nocent. Men who had honestly arranged with
their families so as to keep within the limits
of the law, have been punished with the great-
est possible severity, and their wives and child-
ren have been forced before courts and grand
juries, and compelled to disclose the most sacred
and private relations which in all civilized 
countries are held sacred to the parties. The
meaning of the law has been changed so many 
times that no one can say definitely what is its
signification. Those who have lived by the
law, as interpreted in one case, find, as soon
as they are entrapped, that a new ren-
dering is constructed to make it applicable to
their own. Under the latest ruling, a man
who has contracted plural marriages, no mat-
ter at how remote a date, must not only repudi-
ate his families and cease all connection with
them, but if he is known to associate with
them in the most distant manner, support them
and show any regard whatever for their wel-
fare, the offense of unlawful cohabitation is
considered to have been fully established, and
he is liable to exorbitant fines and imprison-
ment for an indefinite period, one district judge 
holding that a separate indictment may be
found for each day of such association and
recognition. In the case of Solomon Edwards,
recently accused of this offense, it was proven
by the evidence for the prosecution, that the
defendant had lived with one wife only since
the passage of the Edmunds Act, but after 
having separated from his former plural wife,
he called with his legal wife at the former's
residence to obtain a child, an agreement hav-
ing been made that each party should have
one of the two children, and the court ruled
that this was unlawful cohabitation in the
meaning of the law, and defendant was con-
victed.
	In the case of Lorenzo Snow, now on ap-
peal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, the evidence for the prosecution showed

[Column 2]
that the defendant had lived with only one
wife since the passage of the Edmunds law,
that he had not even visited other portions of
his family except to call for a few moments to
speak to one of his sons, but because he sup-
ported his wives and children and did not ut-
terly and entirely cast them off, under instruc-
tions of Judge Orlando W. Powers he was
convicted three times for the alleged offense
and sentenced in each case to the full penalties
of the law, aggregating $900 fine besides costs,
and eighteen months' imprisonment, the Judge
stating in his instructions to the jury: "It is
not necessary that the evidence should show
that the defendant and these women, or either
of them, occupied the same bed, slept in the
same room or dwelt under the same roof." "The
offense of cohabitation is complete, when a
man, to all outward appearances, is living or
associating with two or more women as his
wives."
	The women who are dependent upon the
men whom they regard as their husbands, with
whom they have lived, as they have regarded
it, in honorable wedlock, must not only be
separated from their society and protection,
but must be treated as outcasts and be driven
forth with their children to shame and distress,
for the bare "association" of friendship is
counted a crime and punished with all the
severity inflicted upon those who have not in
any way severed their plural family rela-
tions.	
	In order to fasten the semblance of guilt
upon men accused of this offense, women are
arrested and forcibly taken before sixteen men
and plied with questions that no decent woman
can hear without a blush. Little children are ex-
amined upon the secret relations of their pa-
rents, and wives in regard to their own condi-
tion and the doings of their husbands. If
they decline to answer they are imprisoned in
the penitentiary as though they were criminals.
A few instances we will cite for your considera-
tion:
	In the Third District Court Nov. 14, 1882,
Annie Gallifant, having been asked by the
Grand Jury a number of questions which she
declined to answer, one of them being as to
the name of the man to whom she was married,
she was brought into court, and still declining,
was sent to the penitentiary where, although
daily expecting to become a mother, she was
kept till the Grand Jury was discharged. On
the trial of John Connelly, she was again
brought into court and asked: "When did
you first cohabit with your husband?"
	"How long after you commenced cohabit-
ing with your husband was it that your child
was born?"
	Miss B. Harris was sentenced to fine and
imprisonment in the Second District Court at
Beaver, by Judge Twiss, because she declined
to answer whether she was a married woman,
and if so, who was her husband. She was
taken to the penitentiary, a building used for
the confinement of criminals of the most hide-
ous types, with her babe in her arms, and
leaving one behind with her mother. When
asked the questions mentioned, by the grand
jury, she answered, "Gentlemen, you have no
legal right to ask this question; and I decline
to answer it."
	The question was an insult and a vile in-
sinuation of departed virtue; and yet were she
a public prostitute, no such question would ever
be asked. She was fined $25 and imprisoned
three and a half months, when she was released
by Judge Twiss. She is a lady with strength
of character, who was defending a principle;
her right as a witness was as sacred as any
right recognized in courts. She was a martyr
to personal right, and in defense of a vital
principle of freedom. The question was
not directed to her knowledge of any crime, but
to her social relation to another, she not being
charged with any crime.

[Column 3]
	On May 22, 1884, in the same court, Nellie
White, for refusing to answer personal questions
in regard to her relations with Jared Roundy,
was sent to the penitentiary, under the same
roof with murderers, burglars and other con-
victs, and confined there until July 7th, the
Grand Jury being kept over and not discharged
for the purpose of protracting her imprison-
ment until the beginning of a new term.
	In the court of U. S. Commissioner McKay,
June 20, 1885, Elizabeth Ann Starkey was
brought in as a witness against Charles S.
White. On refusing to answer the question,
"Have you ever in this county, within the last
two years, occupied the same bed with defend-
ant," she was sentenced to one day's imprison-
ment and a fine of $50, and placed in the cus-
tody of the U. S. Marshal until payment.
	On June 22nd, she again declined to answer,
and was fined $100 and committed until pay-
ment.
	On June 24th she refused to answer similar
personal questions to the grand jury, and was
committed to the penitentiary until August
21st, but was again imprisoned and kept till
October 6th. While in prison she was ap-
proached and grossly insulted by an employe
of the Marshal's.
	On the 15th of September, 1885, Eliza
Shafer was sent to the penitentiary for refusing
to answer the question, "Have you, within three
years past, lived and cohabited with J. W.
Snell as his wife?" The Court ordered her im-
prisonment until the question was answered.
	On February 15th, 1886, Mrs. Martha F.
Cannon was brought into the Third District
Court, and the Grand Jury complained that
she would not answer certain questions, among
them the following: "Are you not now a preg-
nant woman?" "Are you not now with child
by your husband, George Q. Cannon?" On
still declining to answer, the Court adjudged her
guilty of contempt, and pending sentence she
was placed under bonds of $2,500, which were
subsequently raised to $5,000.
	On March 2nd, 1886, Miss Huldah Winters
was arrested by Deputy Marshal Vandercook
at her home in Pleasant Grove, forty miles dis-
tant, no charge being preferred against her,
but it was suspected that she was a plural wife
of George Q. Cannon. She was brought to
Salt Lake City and conducted to the court
house, where she was required to furnish bonds
for $5,000 for her appearance from time to 
time as she might be wanted.
	Under the suspicion that any woman or
young lady is some man's plural wife she is
liable at any time to be arrested, not merely
subpoenaed, but taken by force by deputy mar-
shals and brought before a grand jury and ex-
amined and brow-beaten and insulted by the
Prosecuting Attorney or his minions. But
this is not all. In defiance of law and the
usages of courts for ages, the legal wife is now
compelled to submit to the same indignities.
	On Feb. 20, 1886 in the Third District Court
in the second trial of Isaac Langton upon
whom the prosecution had failed to fasten the
slightest evidence of guilt, Prosecuting At-
torney Dickson exclaimed: "If the Court will
allow me I would like to call Mrs. Langton"
(defendant's legal wife.) After a strong pro-
test from the attorneys for the defendant, the
Court permitted the outrage and against her
and her husband's consent, she was compelled
to testify for the prosecution; the evidence
however completely exonerating the husband,
who was discharged.
	But this has now been set up as a precedent,
and within the past few days a legal wife has
been taken before the Grand Jury, as many
have been before, who refused to give evidence,
but this time was compelled to answer the
questions propounded by the public prosecutor
against the lawful husband.
	We also direct your attention to the out-


[Column 1]

rages perpetrated by rough and brutal deputy
marshals, who watch around our dooryards,
peer into our bedroom windows, ply little child-
ren with questions about their parents, and
when hunting their human prey, burst into
people's domiciles and terrorize the innocent.
	On Jan. 11, 1886, early in the morning, five
deputy marshals appeared at the residence of
Wm. Grant, American Fork, forced the front
door open, and while the inmates were still in
bed, made their way up stairs to their sleeping
apartments. There they were met by one of
the daughters of Wm. Grant, who was aroused
at the intrusion, and despite her protestations,
without giving time for the object of their
search to get up and dress himself, made their
way into his bedroom, finding him still in bed
and his wife en dishabille in the act of dressing
herself.
	Early on the morning of Jan. 13, 1886, a
company of deputies invaded the peaceful vil-
lage of West Jordan, and under pretense of
searching for polygamists, committed a num-
ber of depredations. Among other acts of
violence they intruded into the house of F. A.
Cooper, arrested him and subpoenead his legal
wife as a witness against him. This so shocked
her that a premature birth occurred next day,
and her system was so deranged by the disturb-
ance that in a few days she was in her grave.
	Feb. 23, 1886, at about 11 o'clock at night,
two deputy marshals visited the house of
Solomon Edwards, about seven miles from
Eagle Rock, Idaho, and arrested Mrs. Edwards,
his legal wife, after she had retired to bed, and
required her to accompany them immediately
to Eagle Rock. Knowing something of the
character of one of the deputies, from his hav-
ing visited the house before, when he indulged
in a great deal of drinking, profanity and abuse,
she feared to accompany them without some
protection, and requested a neighbor to go
along on horseback while she rode in the buggy
with the two deputies. On the way the buggy
broke down and she with an infant in her
arms, was compelled to walk the rest of the
distance—between two and three miles.
	They could have no reason for subpoenaing
her in the night, and compelling her to accom-
pany them at such an untimely hour except a
fiendish malice and a determination to heap
all the indignities possible upon her because
she was a "Mormon" woman, for she never at-
tempted to evade the serving of the warrant,
and was perfectly willing to report herself at
Eagle Rock the next day. She was taken to
Salt Lake City to testify against her husband.
	On Feb. 23, 1886, Deputy Marshal Gleason
went to Greenville, near Beaver, Utah. The
story of their conduct is thus related by the
ladies who were the subjects of their violence:

MRS. EASTON'S STATEMENT.

	About 7 a.m. deputies came to our house and
demanded admittance. I asked them to wait
until we got dressed, and we would let them in.
Deputy Gleason said he would not wait, and
raised the window and got partly through by
the time we opened the door, when he drew
himself back and came in through the door.
He then went into the bed-room; one of the
young ladies had got under the bed, from which
Gleason pulled the bedding, and ordered the
young lady to come out. This she did, and
ran into the other room, where she was met by
Thompson. I asked Gleason why he pulled
the bedding from the bed, and he answered,
"By G—d, I found Watson in the same kind
of a place." He then said he thought Easton
was concealed in a small compass, and that he
expected to find him in a similar place, and
was going to get him before he left.

MISS MORRIS' STATEMENT,

	Deputy Gleason came to my bed and pulled
the clothing off me, asking if there was any

[Column 2]

one in bed with me. He then went to the
fire-place and pulled a sack of straw from there
and looked up the chimney. One of them
next pulled up a piece of carpet, when Glea-
son asked Thompson if he thought there was
any one under there. Thompson said, "No,"
and Gleason exclaimed, "G—d—it, we
will look any way!" They also looked in cup-
boards, boxes, trunks, etc., and a small tea
chest, but threw nothing out.

WILLIAM THOMAS' STATEMENT.

	The deputies called at our place about day-
break, and came to my window and rapped. I
asked who was there, but received no answer.
They then tried to raise the window, when I
called again, and they said they were officers.
I asked them to wait until I was dressed, but
they said no, or they would break in the door.
I told them they had better let that out, and
they went around to mother's door, which
was opened, and father was summoned. The
deputies next went to the bed of Mrs. Elliotts
and subpoenaed her. Gleason said, with a
frightful oath, that he knew there was another
woman in the house, and searched in boxes,
trunks, etc.
	These are a few instances of the course pur-
sued towards defenseless women, who are not
even charged with any offense against the law.
We solemnly protest against these desecrations
of our homes and the invasions of our rights.
We are contented with our lot when left un-
molested, and would enjoy the peace of quiet
homes, the society of our husbands and child-
ren, and the blessings that only belong to God-
fearing families trained to habits of thrift, 
temperance, self-restraint and mutual help, if
it were not for these outrages which are com-
mitted in the name of law, under the false
pretense of protecting home and preserving
the family.
	We learn that measures are in contempla-
tion before your honorable bodies to still fur-
ther harass and distress us. We protest against
the movement to deprive us of the elective
franchise, which we have exercised for over
fifteen years. What have we done that we
should thus be treated as felons? Our only
crime is that we have not voted as our persecu-
tors dictate. We sustain our friends, not our
enemies, at the polls. We declare that in
Utah the ballot is free. It is entirely secret.
No one can know how we vote unless we choose
to reveal it. We are not compelled by any
men, or society, or influence to vote contrary to
our own free convictions. No woman living
with a bigamist, polygamist, or person cohabit-
ing with more than one woman, can now vote
at any election in Utah. Why deprive those
against whom nothing can be charged, even by
implication, of a sacred right which has be-
come their property?
	We ask for justice. We appeal to you not
to tighten the bonds which are now so tense
that we can scarcely endure them. We ask
that the laws may be fairly and impartially
executed. We see good and noble men dragged
to jail to linger among felons, while debauched
and polluted men, some of them Federal offi-
cers who have been detected in the vilest kind
of depravity, protected by the same court and
officers that turn all their energies and engines
of power toward the ruin of our homes and
the destruction of our dearest associations.
We see pure women forced to disclose their
conjugal relations or go to prison, while the
wretched creatures who pander to men's basest
passions are left free to ply their horrible
trade, and may vote at the polls, while legal
wives of men with plural families are dis-
franchised. We see the law made specially
against our people, so shamefully administered
that every new case brings a new construction
of its meaning, and no home is safe from in-
stant intrusion by ruffians in the name of the

[Column 3]

law. And now we are threatened with entire
deprivation of every right and privilege of
citizenship, to gratify a prejudice that is fed on
ignorance and vitalized by bigotry.
	We respectfully ask for a full investigation
of Utah affairs. For many years our hus-
bands, brothers and sons have appealed for
this in vain. We have been condemned, al-
most unheard. Everything reported to our
detriment is received; our cries to be heard
have been rejected. We plead for suspension
of all measures calculated to deprive us of our
political rights and privileges, and to harass,
annoy and bring our people into bondage and
distress, until a commission duly and specially
authorized to make full inquiry into the affairs
of this Territory, have investigated and re-
ported. And while the blessing of Him who
will one day deal out even-handed justice to all,
shall rest upon your honorable bodies, your
memorialists, as in duty bound, will ever pray,
etc.
		MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL,
		MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE,
		MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
		DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
		MRS. H. C. BROWN,
		MRS. MARY PITCHFORTH,
		MISS IDA I. COOK,
		MRS. IDA COOMBS,
		MRS. MARY JOHN,
			Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.

		BRIGHAM CITY, Mar, 18, 1886.

Editor Exponent:
	It is some length of time since the young ladies
of Box Elder County have been represented
through your columns so I take this opportun-
ity of briefly reporting our present condition.
	On the evening of the 8th inst. our taber-
nacle was filled with a large, orderly and ap-
preciative audience who had assembled to
witness an entertainment given under the aus-
pices of the officers of the Y. M. and Y. L.
M. I. Associations of Brigham City when the
following programme was presented: Glee,
"The wolf is on the hill," by the choir. Prayer
by N. Madison. Singing, "The coming day,"
children of Israel from Egypt," by E. A. Box;
Music by Theatre Orchestra; Essay on "Mutual
Improvement," Mrs. Hattie Jensen; Rec.
"Creeds of the Bells," J. D. Peters; Quartette,
"Moonlight will come again," Pres. Minnie J.
Snow and others;  Rec. "The Wich's Daugh-
ter," Miss Freddie Widerborg. Solo and
chorus, "Once a friend, a friend forever," Miss
Ettie Madsen and others; Address, Pres. N. P.
Andersen; Rec. O. N. Stohl. Jr.; Duet, "See the
pale moon," Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Pierce; Rec.
"Jehovah's triumph over Baal," Eph Jensen.
Violin Solo and organ accompanyment "Sweet
Spirit hear my prayer," C. Christensen and
Mrs. Pierce.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow followed in a short
address; his remarks were replete with wise
counsel and advice to the young, and en-
couraged them in the onward march of im-
provement. This  proved his last appearance
in public before going to the Penitentiary.
	The Y. L. Quarterly Conference of Box
Elder Stake, convened in the Brigham City
tabernacle Mar. 10th 1886, at 10 a. m. Prest.
Minnie J. Snow presiding. Although the
weather was extremely unfavorable,
it did not prevent a good attendance.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest. M.
J. Snow offered a few words of greeting. Felt
grateful that we were still permitted to peace-
fully assemble for purposes of worship, in
these troublesome times, Secretary L. S.
Pelro[-] road the semi annual reports exhibiting


a very favorable condition of the Associations
throughout the stake.
	Presidents Anna Hansen, Amy Madsen,
Eliza Davis and others offered interesting and
spirited remarks filled with advice and exhor-
tations to the young girls to tread the path of
virtue and be loyal to the principles of truth.
The following subjects, "The Art of Conversa-
tion," by Lydia S. Pierce; "Fashion and Dress,"
Coun. Freddie Widerborg; "Association of
the Sexes," Coun. Hattie Jensen; "Deportment
in places of worship," Prest. Minnie J. Snow;
"Obedience to the Priesthood," Ettie Madsen;
and "Politeness," by Phena Madsen,were treat-
ed upon in an able, impressive and intelligent
manner; quotations from reliable authors were
cited and the virtues and evils of the different
features of these subjects dwelt upon by the
speakers.
	Bro. N. P. Anderson, Stake Prest. of the
Y. M. M. I. A. then addressed the sisters; tes-
tified that the Spirit of the Lord had been
present.  He spoke of the principle of virtue,
and considered it one of the greatest gifts
given to us in the world since it is eternal, we
should remember that our  actions are also
eternal. He asked God’s help to assist us in;
practising the instructions given. Singing.
Benediction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	A commendable interest in he work of Im-
provement is noticable; particularly among the
officers of our association here, who are indeed,
laboring with  their might” in its cause.
		Respectfully,
	ANNIE N. BOWRING, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The most novel innovation of prison disci-
pline ever recognized in the Michigan State
Prison occurred to-day when the "Mikado" was
given in the prison chapel, with 500 convicts
for an audience. The scheme was originated
and carried out by Gen. A. H. Whitington of
the Whitington-Cooley Manufacturing Com-
pany as a feature in the annual banquet to
their convict laborers. The prisoners were al-
lowed to talk and give vent to their joy and a
more enthusiastic audience never greeted a
theatre company. No little unfavorable com-
ment prevails.

	Mrs. Julia Romana Anagnos, wife of
Michael Anagnos and eldest child of the late
Dr. Samuel G. and Mrs. Julia Ward Howe,
died at her home last evening.
	[She was born in Rome, Italy, in 1844.
Mrs. Anagnos was a woman of a broad intel-
lectual mind and a clever writer. A volume of
her poems "Stray Chords," was published in
1883. Three years ago she founded in Boston
the Metaphysical Club. The best modern
thinkers were attracted to it by its expositors
of thought. In her early womanhood she was
married to Michael Anagnos, a Greek philan-
thropist who is the Superintendent of the Per-
kins Institution for the Blind.]


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Powdered rice is said to have a great effect in stopping
bleeding from fresh wounds.
	Julienne Potatoes.—Peel, wash and cut like matches
three medium-sized potatoes; dry them in a towel and fry
in very hot lard; drain, sprinkle salt over them while shak-
ing in the pan, and serve.
	The stains of iron-rust on stone may be partially removed
by washing the stone with hydrochloric acid diluted with
four parts of water; then wash with clean water. If the
stone is marble, use oxalic acid in solution of water.
	Apples and potatoes should never be kept in the same
cellar, or, if this is unavoidable, the potatoes should be
kept in the warmest part of the cellar, and the barrels of
apples, well heaped up; near the windows, where, on days
when the air outside is only a few degrees above freezing,
they can be treated to a cold breeze from the open windows.


while at the same time the atmosphere in the part of the
cellar where the potatoes are kept does not fall below forty
degrees.
	Treatment of Burns by Boracic Acid Oil.—Mr. C.J .
Bond, F. R. C. S., surgeon to the Leicester Infirmary,
says, "I have found that eighteen grains of powdered
boracic acid, dissolved in a drachm of hot glycerine and
added to an ounce of olive-oil, forms a kind of imperfect
emulsion, the glycerine retaining the acid in solution when
cold. This can be easily shaken up with the oil. This
makes a non-irritating and doubly antiseptic dressing, and
extensive burns treated thus, and covered with a layer of
antiseptic wool, require to be disturbed but seldom, and, it
not perfectly aseptic, are far 'sweeter' than when dressed
with, for instance, carron-oil."


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Midway, Wasatch Co., Feb. 9th, 1886, Sister
Mary Bronson, after a lingering illness. She was an ener-
getic member of the Relief Society, and acted as Secretary
of the ward for a number of years, also as Stake Secretary.
She died in full faith of the Gospel, and in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.

	DIED, in Goshen, Utah Co., February, 1886, Annie
Jenkins; also at Goshen, March, 1886, Eugene Taylor,
both members of the Goshen Primary Association.
Touching resolutions of respect were read before the As-
sociation, and it was ordered that a copy be presented to
the parents of each of the deceased, and also preserved on
the pages of the records of the Association.	

	We have just laid to rest a dear sister—Ellen Van Buren
Snow—a faithful and devoted wife, a patient and loving
mother, one whose name was on every donation list. She
never failed to respond to the call for contribution, was a
member of the Relief Society, and a true Latter-day Saint.
She leaves many friends, a sorrowing mother, a doting hus- 
band and eight little darlings to mourn for and miss her.
She was born in Missouri, in 1846, amid the persecutions
and exodus of the Saints, where she early lost her father.
The mother brought her family to the valleys, and reared 
them to the best of her ability. Wishing long life and 
prosperity to the EXPONENT and all its friends, I remain,
		A MEMBER OF THE R. S.

	DIED, at her home in the 4th Ward, Salt Lake City,
Feb. 12th, 1886, Mary Bundy, aged eighty-three years and
three months, relict of the late George Bundy. Having no
children of her own, she adopted two children of her
brother's—Job and Ann Smith—their mother dying when
the latter was an infant. She was baptized in the year
1840, by Brother Woodruff, at the time the whole society
called the "United Brethren" received the Gospel. She
left her native land March 8th, 1843, and arrived in Nau-
voo May 31st, and was there through all the persecutions
of the Saints and the martyrdom of the Prophets, with
whom she was well acquainted; traveled and camped with
the Saints on the banks of the Missouri River, where,
through privation, her husband contracted the disease called
the black scurvy, and was thereby deprived of the use of
his limbs for two years. They started for the valley in the
spring of 1848, at which time he was using crutches, which 
obliged her to drive and attend her own cows and oxen.
They traveled the entire distance from Nauvoo to Salt
Lake in a wagon made entirely of wood, the felloes being 
wrapped in raw hide. She died firm in the faith of the
Gospel with the hope of a glorious resurrection.


[column 1]

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[column 2]

"Domestic!" 
The Sewing Machine of the Age! 
5,000 Now in Use in Utah. 
[surrounding black and white picture of sewing machine:

Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years.]

Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street,  Old Constitution Building,
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETSAND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1886.	NO. 22.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

How broad and high and deep the mighty theme,
Where past and present and the future gleam
In one vast glorious, panoramic view,
Showing the artist's skill sublime and true.

Mine but the task to point to each grand scene,
Of what has been, is being, and will be, I ween,
Unless Jehovah's word is null and void,
And prophets, Saints and Christ in vain have died.

First on the view a new born world appears,
To take its place amid revolving spheres—
Result of council of the gods above,
A plan of wisdom, majesty and love.

The work completed, and a day of rest
Appointed—still unto man of all most blest;
When he will keep its holy laws complete,
He will have light to guide his wandering feet.

Now let us gaze upon that Eden fair,
That Eden pure with fruits most choice and rare,
Adam and Eve untouched with deadly sin,
Ere the vile tempter there had entered in.

Oh! what a picture for the weary now,
Who 'neath the tyrant's rod in anguish bow,
Whose longing eyes now look for peace in vain,
For one bright spot free from sin's darkening stain.

But lo, the picture changed, the serpent's trail
Has marred each lovely scene, and sorrow's wail
Comes close upon the broken law; sin enters in,
Aye, to remain, unless a greater win.

The years roll on; another scene behold,
Where man has widely wandered from the fold;
God has repented His creation now,
And breathed a just and an unchanging vow,

To sweep him from the earth, all save a few—
Noah and his, who still were pure and true.
In vain had Noah warned the dying world—
They heeded not 'til heaven's darts were hurled

In anger down, and floods rose high and wide,
The swelling rivers meeting ocean tide;
One funeral dirge the wild winds sadly played,
When the fleeting breath of a whole world was stayed.

While sadly rested on the silent wave
The ark of him who tried in vain to save;
And he in time goes forth to build again,
Dwellings for man upon the mount and plain.

Nations arise and fall at God's command—
Egypt has felt the power of His right hand.
Stretched forth to set His bleeding captives free,
And mourns great Pharaoh's hosts beneath the sea.

Time's onward course displays each changing scene,
And Bethlehem's Star lights all with its bright gleam;
The Babe whose birthplace was a manger low,
Yet Lord of lords and King of all below.

But yet ye slew Him and His prophets dear,
Ye hosts of Satan!  but the time is near
When He shall come again and set His captives free,
Then chains and dungeons shall your portion be.

List to the words of that deep "still small voice,"
That makes the devils tremble and the Saints rejoice;
Study the glorious plan; then, if ye dare,
Go on, He will His mighty arm make bare.

We trust the Shepherd's voice we know so well,
And scorn the offer Him again to sell;
Though life and liberty the tempter be,
We'll wear the chains until He set us free.

	HOPE.
Mesa City, March 28.


[Column 1]

"THE ROTUNDA"—KIRTLAND—THE
"MEMORIAL."

	Following are some extracts from a letter
written by Mrs. E. B. Wells, April 6, 1886, on
receiving the news of the birth of a grand-
daughter.  The entertaining description of the
places named will no doubt prove acceptable
to our readers:
	Allow me to offer my most sincere congratula-
tions upon this auspicious occasion—the birth
through the royal lineage of the new and ever-
lasting covenant of one of the daughters of
Eve, and let us hope that she has come like a
sweet flower of the spring to bring joy and
fragrance to the household.
	The news of her advent came to me in the
Rotunda of the Capitol, as I was on my way
to the Marble Room of the Senate. The mes-
sage conveying "the glad tidings of great joy"
was handed me by a member of Congress, the
Delegate from Utah, and must, of course,
have been an official announcement.  You
know what a magnificent place the Rotunda is,
and the news coming to the grandmother there
ought to augur good for the newly born daugh-
ter of the house.  To describe this grand place
would take too much time, but suffice it to say,
it is 180 feet high to the canopy, and 96 feet
in diameter.  The sides are divided into eight
panels, with massive Roman pilasters support-
ing an entablature ornamented with wreaths
of olive. The paintings on the walls are also
eight in number, all historical.  The first re-
presents the landing of Columbus, the second
the discovery of the Mississippi, the third the
Baptism of Pocahontas, the fourth the Em-
barkation of the Pilgrims, the fifth the Declara-
tion of Independence, the sixth the Surrender
of Burgoyne at Saratoga, the seventh the Sur-
render of Cornwallis at Yorktown, the eighth
General Washington at Annapolis.  The apex
of the canopy represents an apotheosis of
Washington with Freedom on his right hand
and Victory on his left.  Here also are thirteen
female figures, representing the original States
and their products, and supporting a scroll on
which is inscribed E Pluribus Unum.  On the
outer margin are six groups allegorical of the
Revolution, viz., The Fall of Tyranny, Agri-
culture, Mechanics, Commerce, Marine, Arts
and Sciences.
	The Fall of Tyranny is represented by an
Eagle battling with Tyranny and Priestcraft,
a mailed soldier vainly struggling to uphold
the ermined robe of royalty.  Discord stands
by, also Anger and Revenge, with incendiary
torch.
	Agriculture is represented by Ceres with
cornucopia.  America wearing a red cap of
Liberty is turning over to Ceres the mastery of
a pair of horses attached to a reaper.  Flora is
gathering flowers and Pomona bears a basket
of fruit.
	Mechanics represents Vulcan resting his
right foot upon a CANNON, and the various in-
struments of his art are around him.
	Commerce is represented by Mercury hold-
ing a bag of gold and directing attention to it.
The figure thus called is Robert Morris, the
financier of the Revolution; there is Merchan-
dise with men at work, and two sailors point-
ing to a gunboat.
	Marine is portrayed by Neptune in his car
bearing his trident, accompanied by his attend-
ants, emerging from the deep, Amphrodite,

[Column 2]

Venus, is about dropping into the foaming
waters an electric cable, which has been hand-
ed her by a cherub.
	Arts and Sciences, the sixth and last, is re-
presented by Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom,
surrounded by figures.  Franklin, the philoso-
pher, Fulton, the inventor of the steamboat,
Morse, of the magnetic telegraph, and the
figures of children, indicating teaching.—Now
tell me, is not this a propitious place in which
to receive the message of a new birth!
	Besides, on the very day that she was born
at nine o'clock in the morning, I walked into
the White House, or more properly called the
Executive Mansion, and at eleven succeeded
in obtaining entrance into the library, where
we sat about an hour and a quarter waiting
our turn to speak to the President of the
United States.  Shortly after twelve o'clock
we presented to him our credentials and the
Memorial of the women of Utah Territory,
and had an opportunity of stating to him some
facts and incidents relating to the abuses and
outrages perpetrated in the name of law.
	Now, if all these incidents combined are not
ominous of some special goodness or great-
ness in the mission on earth of the little
woman just ushered into life and being, I shall
give up prognosticating and speculating upon
such matters.	*	*	*	*
	March first was the anniversary of my bap-
tism, forty-four years  before, and I went to
Kirtland and walked over the historical
ground and through the Kirtland Temple,
which, though desecrated now by the teaching
and preaching of false doctrines, is still dear
to the Latter-day Saints on account of what
has transpired within those sacred walls, dedi-
cated as they were to the Most High God.
All those places where the Saints have lived
and worshiped, and toiled and suffered, are
dear to those who have shared or are sharing
similar trials and difficulties.  There is, of
course, this difference to me about Kirtland
and Nauvoo, though both are interesting and
both historical, that Nauvoo, with its scenes of
sufferings, trials and sorrows is engraven into
my very life, while Kirtland cannot become so
much a part of my very existence. I drank
in as much as possible the peculiar situation of
Joseph in the Whitney house in Kirtland,
where he received so many testimonies direct
from a divine source, and where he was almost
daily in communication with the Lord.  In-
deed, I have often heard Bishop Whitney say
that when he would ask the Prophet questions
he did not feel competent to answer, he would
often reply, "Bro. Whitney, I will go and ask
the Lord," and soon after, in a day or two, or
sometimes the same day, he would say, "I have
inquired of the Lord concerning that matter,
and have received the answer."  As you are
well aware, I am much attached to places, and
certainly a house where a prophet of God had
lived and received communications from on
high, possesses an interest to an ardent believer,
far above the palaces which have only archi-
tecture and adornments to recommend them.
So that the little chamber in Kirtland, deserted
and neglected, had a charm for me that con-
verted it, for the time being, into a fit place
for "the wise men of the west," who sat there
in council and who knelt there in prayer.  O
indeed, "it was good to be there," knowing
what I knew of what had formerly transpired
within those walls.
	I saw not that which was, but the vision of


the past.  Joseph the Seer with the Urim and 
Thummim, and around him were his few
staunch followers.  Mother Whitney has told
me of his struggles with himself and his
brethren in that room, when he would pace
the floor backwards and forwards, and in her
room just underneath she could hear him, and
O so many precious things she has told me of 
those wonderful days that are known to none
living now as she knew them.  How I wish
every day that she could have written some of
the beautiful things as she could describe them
episodes in history that ought to have been
left on record.  But she has gone, Sister
Woodruff has gone, and Sister Marinda Hyde
has gone now, and soon there will not be one
of those who first received endowments in the
old brick store in Nauvoo.  There were only
a few at the time, and so many of them are
dead, especially the women.  Bathsheba Smith
is the only one I can recall at the present
time, unless it is Augusta Winters' grand-
mother, and I am not sure about her.  One
thing I do think ought to have been officially
stated by Mother Whitney in her own hand-
writing, and that is, her knowledge of Emma
Smith's giving Joseph wives.  To be sure there
is testimony from the wives, but coming from
one outside the family, and a first wife and in-
timate friend would be very much stronger
with those not convinced.  Still, I suppose it
would be like those of old, who the Savior
said would not believe though one rose from
the dead.	*	*	*	*
	Yesterday the Memorial of the Women of
Utah was presented in the Senate and pub-
lished in full in the Record, and now only the
House remains to be heard from.  We intend
to get it referred to a committee there, and
then see what can be done with the committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, the women of Mancos Ward Relief So-
ciety, wish to express, through the columns of
your paper, our heartfelt sympathy for our
brethren and sisters who are undergoing such
bitter persecutions for the love of our holy re-
ligion.
     Although somewhat removed from the im-
mediate scene of affliction, we are none the
less interested in our dear brethren and sisters
that are enduring these trials.   We fully
realize that it is only a matter of time, when
we, too, will have to give as strong a proof of
our faith in the work of God established in
these last days for the exaltation of  man-
kind.
     We read with  a feeling of horror and
chagrin of our sisters being dragged before
courts and compelled to answer questions that
no man with one spark of manhood could be
induced to ask—of the privacy of their bed-
rooms being invaded, without even allowing
them time to dress, of their being thrust into
prison in a condition that has demanded the
respect of men worthy the name in all ages.
We read of these things, and many more of
like character, with feelings of deepest sym-
pathy for our brethren and sisters. We know
that they are brave and noble enough to 
avenge these wrongs, did they not know that
rashness on their part would only add to the 
persecutions of the people.  We read also with
pain and sorrow of our beloved leaders being 
deprived of their liberty and the kindly asso-
ciation of family and friends, at an advanced
period of life, after traveling thousands of
miles to carry the words of life and salvation
to their fellow men, but we have great conso-
lation in the knowledge that God is at the 
helm and will avenge our wrongs.
     When these wrongs can be inflicted by such
questionable characters as the present court
minions, with not only the sanction of the


courts, but the government, surely justice has
fled and honor departed from the nation.  It
seems that the end is not yet,from the bills now
pending.
     We join with every true Latter-day Saint in
thanking God for the  presence in Congress of
those few noblemen that dare face the flood of
bitterness and hate, that is almost everywhere
made manifest against us, and boldly contest
for our constitutional rights.  We fear there
are not many such—not enough to save the
nation, and like Sodom, it will go down.  We
are earnestly watching the progress that both
powers are making, with perfect confidence as
to the result, and praying for strength to stand
for the cause of God when our time of trial
comes.
     We humbly pray that God will comfort and
support the prisoner, the fugitive and the be-
reaved for His cause.
	SISTERS OF THE MANCOS WARD R. S.


SOME QUERIES.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In our great anxiety and desire to benefit
and uplift the poor Indian from his wretched,
degraded and uncivilized condition, is it not
always well to be careful how we undertake
to pull down his poor old wigwam until we
can provide him a better one?  Lest by so do-
ing we might not only cause him a vast amount
of unnecessary trouble and suffering, but our-
selves also.
	So likewise in respect to the very perplexing
"Utah problem." Is it wise to attempt to up-
root and destroy the very foundation, and even
the hope of the professed Latter-day Saints, in
regard to their honest and conscientious religious
belief, especially concerning the all-important
marriage question?  Do the people at large,
 and the members of the other Christian de-
nominations expect this "peculiar people" to
renounce their belief in polygamy until they
can be shown a better system of marriage
thau any now in existence in the known world?
For have not all these systems simply proved a 
grand and complete failure to introduce that
beautiful heaven of peace and righteousness
which Christ came to establish on earth, and
which He taught His Saints to especially pray
for?
     And would it not also be proper for all to
just bear in mind that "the race is not always
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong?"
		GIDEON.
	Prospect Hill, Salt Lake City.


THE FEMALE VOTE.

	It is often said if women vote, they will
have to be candidates for office, (though no
man has to be a candidate for office unless he
chooses) and that they will then be abused in
the newspapers—actually, in the newspapers!
There is always in these arguments a tacit as-
sumption that as long as women cannot vote,
they will be secure from abuse in the news-
papers.  But the papers that are opposed to
woman suffrage are ready to assail a woman
just as roughly as if she were a man,—general-
ly, indeed, with an added fling on the score of
her sex.  Witness the Boston  Herald, which
says in a conspicuous editorial:
	"In a shrieky letter to Senator Edmunds,
Mrs. De Lozier, of New York, protests with a 
blindness to facts characteristic of some mem-
bers of her sex, against depriving the Mormon
leaders in Utah of that bulwark of polygamy,
woman suffrage. 'The right of suffrage be-
longs to those women as a God-given right of
their nature,' says the writer.  On the con-
trary, the right was given them by an act of
Congress, and, having operated to strengthen


the Mormon power, it is about to be revoked."
	Blindness to facts seems not to be a purely
feminine characteristic; for the foregoing para-
graph contains almost as many errors as it
does assertions.  In the first place, the lady's
name is Mrs. Dr. Lozier, not Mrs. De Lozier.
In the second place, the Utah women were not
enfranchised by "an act of Congress," but by
an act of the Utah Legislature.  In the third
place, woman suffrage has in no preceptible
way strengthened the Mormon power; four-
fifths of the non-polygamous men of the Terri-
tory being Mormons, it makes not the slightest
practical difference to the Mormon power
whether the women vote or not. But in view
of the language habitually used by a certain
class of newspaper writers towards women
with whom they do not agree, is it not time to
drop the argument that women are treated
with respect, not because of their sex, or their
goodness, or their wisdom, but because of their
inability to vote?—Woman's Journal.


PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT.

	There is almost no limit to the physical de-
velopment and health that may be gained and 
maintained by walking that is done for the
purpose of exercise.  Any one can find time
and space in which to walk, and one can find
congenial company for such trips.  A prospec-
tive husband is not the best company at such
times, for with him the walk will almost ine[--]
itably degenerate into a saunter; further, no
woman can walk freely when custom or affec-
tion compels her to lean upon a masculine arm.
To be beneficial, walking must  be done in
shoes broad enough to let the feet be placed
firmly upon the ground at every step, and in
clothing which will allow free play to the
lungs and arms.  The step should be as quick
as can be maintained without causing uncom-
fortable increase in the action of the heart.
The pedestrian should breathe through the
nose, carry the head erect, and not be afraid 
of becoming high shouldered.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Astronomers promise that a bright comet
will be visible just before sunrise during the
latter part of May.  It is the comet "1886,"
discovered lately by Professor Barnard.
	It is said that the use of smelling salts pro-
duces irritation which in many cases destroys
the sense of smell.  Sore throat, violent head-
aches, and red noses, also result from this
fashionable habit.  Sore throat and headache
a society belle can bear, but a red nose, 
never!
	The tree known as the "traveler's tree" is
abundant in Madagascar, and rises from the 
ground with a thick, succulent stem.  Long,
broad leaves grow from opposite sides of the
stalk, so that the tree looks like a huge green,
open fan.  During the most arid season the
tree contains a large quantity of pure, fresh
water, supplying to the traveler the absence of
wells in the desert.  So abundant and pure is
the water that the natives will not take the
trouble to go to a spring or well, but draw off
and drink the fluid of this tree.  A thrust of
the spear into the thick, firm end of the leaf
stalk, where it joins the trunk, will be fol-
lowed by a copious flow of ice cold, clear, and
perfectly sweet water.


The criterion of true beauty is that it in-
creases on examination; if false, that it lessens.
There is something, therefore, in true beauty
that corresponds with right reason, and is not
merely the creation of fanoy.—Lord Green-
ville.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
"SHUT IN."

BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Shut in: shut in from the ceaseless din
Of the restless world, its want and sin;
Shut in from its turmoil, care and strife,
And all the wearisome round of life;
Shut in with tears that are spent in vain,
With the dull companionship of pain;
Shut in with the changeless days and hours,
And bitter knowledge of failing powers.

Shut in and alone, with dreams gone by,
With buried joys that were born to die;
Shut in with hopes that have lost their zest,
And leave but a longing after rest;
Shut in with a trio of angels sweet—
Fair Patience and Grace, trials to meet,
Faith that can suffer and stand and wait,
Lean on the promises, strong and great.

Shut in with Christ, oh, wonderful thought!
With the calm peace His sufferings brought;
Shut in with the love that wields the rod—
Oh, company blest! shut in with God.


A VOICE FROM UTAH.

BY M. J. TANNER.

These's a voice that goes forth to the head of the nation,
	The voice of a nation whose freedom has fled;
We are crying aloud for the right of salvation,
	The rights for which heroes have battled and bled.

There's a cry that resounds from the hills to the ocean,
	A cry form the widows and orphans who mourn;
Oh! hard is the heart where no tender emotion
	Can stir not a love for the lone and forlorn.

The daughters of Zion are bowing in sorrow,
	Whose husbands are banished in exile to roam;
And our foes from the wolves of the mountain might
		borrow
	Some pity for those who are mourning at home.

They would ask us to banish all tender emotion
	That marks us as children of Christ in His love,
And wrest from our heartstrings a life of devotion—
	Eternity's mandates are given above.

Then let us stand forth as the children of freemen,
	Whose fathers have never dishonored the laws;
Nor cravens nor cowards to bend 'neath the foeman—
	As children of Zion we'll honor our cause.

Our husbands and fathers have languished in prison,
	Our substance is squandered, our children despoiled;
Our cries and our sorrows no pity awaken,
	Thier anger appeased nor their pity beguiled.

Then raise up your voices, fair daughters of Zion,
	Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth;
There's a power above us, whose hand we rely on,
	More potent than princes and kings of the earth.


CRITICS AND CRITICISM.

	There are wise and unwise critics. And, ac-
cording to their natures, their criticisms are
wise or foolish, kind or unkind, true or false.
	Wise criticism is likely to be beneficial to
both critic and criticised; while unwise criti-
cism is detrimental to both, often more so to
the critic than the criticised.
	The true critic discovers many items to ad-
mire and profit by in matters which contain
only flaws to call forth ridicule or reproof
from the false or unwise critic.
	An instance illustrative of the above fact
recurs to my mind. Some years ago, in a
company of young ladies, a very humble and
unassuming girl remarked that she had but
little to say in company, because she felt the
want of an "edication." Another young
lady, who considered herself smart and also
well educated, proved to be too shallow-minded
or too thoughtless and unobserving to discover
the true merits, the modest beauty and purity


of sentiment contained in that little speech.
All she weighed or measured it by was the
mispronounced word, "edication," which she
sneeringly repeated to one sitting by her, in a
tone loud enough to be heard, I presume, by
every one present	In the eyes of at least the
majority of that company, the smart girl ap-
peared of far less value, and even good sense,
than the one who had so meekly confessed her
inability to make herself interesting to her
friends.
	Another good point may be made just here,
by the recital of something else which took
place the same afternoon, if I remember right-
ly, in the same company of girls.  A gentle-
man sent in a request for a favor to be done by
some of the young ladies.  As is ever the 
case with self-confident people, the smart girl
was quick to reply.  When the request had been
announced, "Let him do it hisself" she re-
sponded abruptly.
	Anyone the least acquainted with grammati-
cal accuracy would notice at once that the "well
educated" young lady had made a mistake in
speaking, quite as glaring as the one she was 
so ready to pick up and make much of but a 
short time before.
	What I would call attention to in this case
is the fact that all are so liable to make mis-
takes it is never safe or wise to offer uncalled
for or useless criticisms upon the language or
actions of others.  Had it not been for the un-
kindly manner in which the first mistake al-
luded to was repeated by the smart young lady,
her own blunder in saying hisself, instead of
himself, if noticed at all, would never have
been remembered.
	The wise and true critic searches for the
good and noble traits to be found in almost
every character not utterly depraved, and at-
tributes to every action the best and worthiest
motives.  Thus, something worth treasuring is
often found where the unthinking see only
cause for contempt or censure.

	Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow,
		Who s[---] for pearls must dive below."

			L .G. R.


DAY DREAMS.

	'Twas springtime. The glorious sun was
rising over a woodland country in majestic
splendor, kissing away the dews and filling the
earth with gladness. The cheerful birds
caroled sweetly in the dense, widening forest,
 whose mingling, mossy boughs embraced the
golden sky. The sunny, clime-lisping wind
swept softly across the lea, spreading the per-
fume of choicest flowers like an unseen censor
swung by seraphim through peaceful, resting
vales. Rolling on forever, the babbling brook
murmured more musically the everlasting song
of nature's never tiring loveliness. Leaning
over the picket gate, basking in the sunlight
of hopeful youth, stood a beautiful, one with a
darling babe, who was as happy as the singing
birds that wrapped her soul and all surround-
ing things in ecstacy divine. As a passing
man planted a kiss upon the cherub's cheek
and silently vanished from sight, ten thousand
panoramic thoughts flashed through her
dreamy mind, and she saw her long looked for,
cherished one return in safety from a distant
clime to fill her heart with increased joy, and
her lonely home with bounteous thanksgiv-
ing.
	The passer by was a stranger in a strange
land, a wanderer among men, teaching the
truth and setting forth righteousness. As he
traveled along, his head slightly forward, he
dreamed of a vale in the midst of the moun-
tains	There was his welcome home, surround-
ed with craggy, snow-capped peaks that have
battled the storms of ages. The blooming
orchard was full of merry birds, which filled
the balmy air with varied harmony. Near his


feet the little streamlet sang the same old song
of unceasing happiness, as it rippled o'er the
rocks to join the river's course.  The gentle
zephyrs that passed silently by, wafted pleasant
odors from the oasis of the desert.  With her
white arms on his painted gate, he saw his
dearest treasure,with his angel babe in her em-
brace, eagerly watching for his joyous return.
His soul o'erflowing with rapture, he kissed
the dimpled face, and was going to continue
his greeting when awakened to the unwelcome
reality that he was in a place he had never
seen before.  With silent emotion he pursued
his onward course, and dreamed that another
had made the same mistake in the valleys of
the west.
	The stranger had kissed the child and was
lost to view before she hardly realized her true
position.  She thought her bosom friend had
really returned, but now the bitter tears of
disappointment rolled down the rosy cheeks;
she said to herself in smothered accents, "The
man must have done it in fond remembrance
of his tender own dwelling in some distant
land.  I wonder if mine has ever done the
same in the strange country where he now so-
journs?"
		C. H. BLISS.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Silence does not always mark wisdom.
	Religious contentions are the devil's har-
vest.
	The secret of success is constancy to pur-
pose.
	The heart ought to give charity when the
hand cannot.
	Truth is as impossible to be soiled by any
outward touch as the sunbeam.
	To love is to admire with the heart; to ad-
mire is to love with the mind.—T. Gautier.
	We make too little of what we say of others,
and a great deal too much of what they say of
us.
	The Persians say of noisy, unreasonable talk,
"I hear the sound of a millstone, but I see no
meal."
	A little girl seeing her father, who was a
lawyer, honing his razor, said: "Pa, is that
the knife you sharpen your cheek with?"
	The hardest useful labor is less exhausting,
in the long run, than exciting pleasures, as 
most of their devotees in middle life sadly
confess.
	To be idle and be poor have ever been re-
praoches; and therefore every man endeavors
with his utmost care to hide his poverty from
others, and his idleness from himself.—Dr.
Johnson.
	After a tongue has once got the knack of ly-
ing, it is not to be imagined how impossible it
is almost to reclaim it.  Whence it comes to
pass that we see some men, who are otherwise
very honest, subject to this vice.—Montague.
	Personalities are the bane of familiar dis-
course.  If conversation must turn upon idle
report, and talk degenerate into idle tattle,
rather than submit to this drying up process
of the brain, let us set a seal upon our lips.
	We are apt to mistake our vocation in look-
ing out the way for occasions to exercise great
and rare virtues, and by stepping over the
ordinary ones which lie directly in the road
before us.  When we read, we fancy we could
be martyrs; but when we come to act, we can-
not bear a provoking word.—Hannah Moore.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

NAUVOO AS IT IS TO-DAY.

	Leaving Chicago Monday evening we reached
Montrose, Iowa, about nine o'clock next morn-
ing, March 9th, and found to our surprise that
there was but one way to cross the Mississippi
River at that point, and that was in a skiff.  The
ice was floating about considerably, and it looked
a little venturesome, but, having resolved to see
Nauvoo after forty years, having left it in Febru-
ary, 1846, we felt determined to make the effort.
There was no difficulty whatever in going over
except every now and then to steer clear of float-
ing ice, and the opposite bank was quickly
reached.  Nauvoo is still beautiful, or at any rate
picturesque in its situation. It looks very pretty,
and indeed presents rather a striking appearance
from the other side of the river, sufficient to at-
tract the attention of strangers, and when the
trees and vines, with which it abounds, are in leaf
it must look very handsome, coming towards it
from either direction. The people who live there
take considerable pride in its history, and tell
many remarkable stories, some of them much
more strange than true, of what transpired when
the Mormons were in possession.
	Nauvoo, like Kirtland, still bears some traces of
its former greatness, and one cannot help feeling
solemn in going over these historic places and re-
membering the familiar associations and recalling
the sad events that transpired in connection with
the persecutions and the exodus.
	The thoughts that rush to the mind, the recol-
lections of the past that sweep like a torrent over
the soul, bringing back vividly the remembrance
of that which once was, but is now no more, came
like magic when treading the well-remembered
streets and places to memory dear. What visions
unfolded themselves again to view. The dead
came back momentarily and stood all about us,
and the shrill wind seemed to echo their voices
and repeat the story of their wrongs. It does not 
require any very great stretch of the imagina-
tion to call up fantasies in a place so hallowed by
remembrances of loved ones gone before, as is
that consecrated ground. Some of the people be-
lieve it is cursed because of the drivings of the
Saints. We were told that many had moved away
on that account, they felt so confident that such
was the case. A short of spell does seem to rest
upon it, and it has the marked appearance of deso-
lation and ruin.  Many of the houses and old
landmarks are gone, and it is not so easy to find
places once well known, as might be supposed.
	Some houses have been pretty well kept up,
among the number are the residences of Brigham 
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Bishop Whitney,
Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor, Joseph Young,
Bishop Hunter, Bishop Woolley and Esquire
Johnson.  The people who own the residence of
Heber C. Kimball seem quite proud of the name
of its former owner, and refer to him with respect,
if not reverence. This house we went through,
even to the observatory on the roof, for there were

[Column 2]

associations connected with it that we loved to re-
call.  We also visited the Brigham Young house,
and several others which "fond recollection pre-
sented to view," and some of them brought
floods of tears that almost blinded us, as we
passed from room to room, recalling the incidents
that had transpired there and associated the
places in our mind; but tongue can never tell it
all, and the poet's cry came to us as we lingered
near the shrines so deeply engraven upon mem-
ory's tablets.

	"But ah! the tears that are not wept,
		The tears that never outward fall;
The tears that grief for years has kept
	Within us—they are best of all:
		The tears our eyes shall never know,
		Are dearer than the tears that flow."

	The great regret of all in mentioning Nauvoo is
that the Temple has been destroyed.  The people
who live in Nauvoo at the present time realize
what financial value the Temple or even its ruins
would be to that city to-day. Every year the
number of travelers and tourists increases, and
inquiries are made concerning people, places and
events, and there is very little reliable information
to be obtained. Mormonism has made such a
stir in the world since then, and people are just
beginning to see that there must have been causes
and conditions to influence its growth, and to
wonder what they were, and find an interest in
going back to the beginning and following it
through its several stages of progress and develop-
ment, even though men designate it the "hydra
headed monster." Those who lived in Nauvoo at
the time of the trouble all agree that it was a cruel
and bitter warfare that was waged against the in-
nocent and unwary, and many incidents of harsh-
ness and severity were related for our especial
benefit. Oaths and imprecations and blasphemy
were hurled at defenseless women and their little
children.  It is not forgotten, and it never can be
by any of those who participated in the struggle
against mob violence and ruffianism. There are
those living to-day—Gentiles—who were cognizant
of the facts at the time, who maintain that the
driving of the Mormons from their Temple and
their homes was something that American people
must ever look back upon with regret.  It could
only have arisen, they say, in a locality so new
that it might be considered border land; where
law and order could not be enforced, because of
the rough and unsettled condition of an unde-
veloped country.  This is the way in which men
pacify their consciences, or stifle them, and fancy,
perchance, that such lawlessness will never be
punished nor those terrible wrongs against the
innocent be redressed, but those who hold such
specious views will assuredly be mistaken, for
there is One who knows all, and will, in His own
due time,  mete out even-handed justice to all
mankind, and at that tribunal, if no other, Mor-
mons will stand upon their merits, and prejudice
will not control the decisions of those higher
courts.  Inquiring for people familiar with the
building up of the city, we were directed here and
there, out of town and in, and met quite a number,
none, however, that we had known personally
during the time we had lived there.  We saw Dr.
Weld, who, as we remembered him, had been a
dashing young man, and rather fine looking, but
now weak and feeble.  He had lived there through
the Mormon period, had known Joseph Smith,
Hyrum Smith,Esquire Wells, Foster, Bennet and
the Laws; was familiar with the record of the
people, and is disposed to vindicate their cause
and defend their attitude in the attempt made to
defend their wives, their homes, and their sacred
trusts.  Such men are called in common parlance
"Jack Mormons," and were they living now in
the vicinity of Salt Lake would be considered
worthy of disfranchisement for sympathy with
"such notorious offeners."
	One cannot recognize much of a sameness to

[Column 3]

the Temple grounds of former days. The
Catholics have a church just north of where the
Temple once stood, and a small store stands on a
part of the Temple site, and a dwelling house al-
most adjoining. The well in the yard that was 
under the Temple at the east end is in use, and
the water is excellent. Visitors to Nauvoo are
very much in the habit of carrying away a bottle
of the water as a sort of memento of their visit,
now that the rock is just about disposed of, and
cannot be broken up to serve the purpose of relics.
There is a house on the south west corner of the
Temple block, that was built by the Icarians, from
the elegant polished stone from that edifice.
That building shows more of the rock than can
be seen anywhere else, though many people have
carriage steps and front door steps made of the
beautiful white polished granite, cut and prepared
by the Latter-day Saints in the days of their
poverty, to build a house unto the Lord. It seems
to us a perfect sacrilege to so deface, destroy and
convert to such base uses material consecrated by
the prayers and labors of the Saints. Across the
street west of the Temple block stands the old
Armory,now remodeled and converted into a Con-
vent for the education of young girls.  We visited
the Riverside Mansion, as it is called now,
but what was originally designated the Nau-
voo House. Major Bideman and his pleas-
ant wife occupy the premises. A great part
of the foundation has been torn away and there
still remains a large part of it standing not built
upon, on the north side. Here Emma Smith
once "the Elect Lady" spent the latter part of her
life in comparative quiet—once the honored wife
of the great leader of this dispensation, mistress
of the Nauvoo Mansion where the Saints congre-
gated around Joseph, the Prophet,sharing the love,
affection and confidence not only of her beloved
husband, but of the whole body of the people.
Sad indeed was her fate,separated from those
who were her best and truest friends, without the
strong arm of him she had been wont to regard
with love and reverence, she was indeed left deso-
late.  Her grave is near by, but unmarked, and
the stranger is not privileged to read upon her
tomb the story of her eventful life; no, nor even
her name.	
	One of the most interesting, and one of the
saddest visits we made was to the old graveyard
east of the city. There, as elsewhere, were the
traces of neglect and ruin. The trees had grown
up, and the falling leaves and undergrowth had
scarce left a token of the graves hidden in grassy
beds and mossy hillocks beneath. Occasionally
a headstone might be observed, but even of the
few that were scattered here and there, nearly all
of them were broken or defaced. The place was
more like a wooded pasture than a depository for
the sacred dead. There is not, perhaps, a spot
in the world where one has more tender and pa-
thetic feelings than among the tombstones that
mark the graves and hallowed dust of the depart-
ed, even though unknown to those who linger near
to meditate upon the common fate that awaits,
sooner or later, all mankind. Trees are the best
companions in such a lonely place, for they an-
swer the weird imaginings of the soul in sighs,
and moans, and whisperings, that breathe a sort
of sympathy in harmony with those whose hearts
are mellowed by the touch of sorrow, and the
pensive thoughts that rise spontaneously when-
ever one "muses on death's long dreamless
sleep."
	While sadly contemplating the situation of this
last resting place of many hundreds of the faith-
ful, we could not help thinking how graciously
nature had provided for these unmarked graves in
the luxuriant foliage of the majestic trees, that
must beautifully adorn the cemetery in the sea-
son thereof.  And the birds make their nests
in the branches, and usher in the early dawn with
their matin songs, and at evening twilight warble
softly, making melodious music in this solitary


wayside God's acre. Alone here, I offered a
silent tribute of gratitude to One above, that our
loved ones had been left undisturbed; and as I
went from one to another of the little graves, I
wept for the many mothers who, perhaps, like me,
had laid away their first born there, and not been
permitted to visit the sod and consecrate them-
selves anew to the work of God. Words cannot
tell the anguish of the young mother when she
consigns to the silent tomb the idol of her earthly
affections, and when she leaves behind the conse-
crated ground forever.
	After wandering up and down and listening to
the cold March winds, whistling among the dry
branches of the trees, we wended our way on
foot, for not even a carriage can pass through the
winding pathway, repeating from Tennyson's "In
Memoriam,"

	 In words like needs I’ll wrap me o’er,
		Like coarsest clothes against the cold;
		But that large grief which these enfold 
	 Is given in outline and no more.”

	Phinehas Kimball, Esquire, lives on the place
once quite famous for its beautiful grounds, near
the Nauvoo landing, formerly owned by Hiram
Kimball, his brother, whose widow and sons are
well known in Utah. The house has been greatly
enlarged, though the old part, as it is called, is
still standing and in good condition. Mr. Kimball
seems to be about the ablest, and we were told,
also, the wealthiest man in Nauvoo. He made
many inquiries about his old friends and acquaint-
ances, and spoke with particular affection of
Brigham Young. We were pleasantly entertained
at his house a part of the time, and both himself
and daughter drove with us at different times about
the city. There is a newspaper published weekly
called The Nauvoo Independent, but the outside
pages are not printed there; think of one weekly
paper and half of it not local print. In summing
up the sketch of Nauvoo, we must mention the
drawings in crayon we saw of the Temple after it
had been burnt, as it stood then in ruins, and of
the column or corner that stood alone to mark the
magnificent edifice after the wind had blown down
the main part left from the fire. They were per-
fect gems—taken on the spot by a German artist.
He would not part with them, and we entreated
him to have the drawings photographed, which
he promised to do.
	There is much more to tell, but the article is
already too lengthy, and we will take up the sub-
ject at another time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Conference at Provo, on the 4th, 5th, 6th
and 7th of April, will long be remembered by
those who were privileged to attend it, as a very
enjoyable and instructive one. At no time,
probably, since the Saints have been in the moun-
tains were there fewer of the General Authorities
on the stand. The quorum of the First Presiden-
cy was unrepresented, and only four of the Twelve
Apostles were in attendance. Those, however,
as well as all the other speakers, were inspired to
deliver words of comfort and admonition to the
people who assembled. The beautiful new Utah
Stake House was crowded to its utmost capacity,
and there was a depth of feeling on the part of the
Saints, which could not be mistaken or misunder-
stood by even a careless observer.
	The Epistle of the First Presidency, the reading
of which occupied some three hours, was a logical
and eloquent statement of our position before the
world. It abounded with sentiments calculated
to cheer the hearts and strengthen the faith of the
Latter-day Saints wherever they are found; it con-
tained a vast amount of practical instruction for
their guidance in the fulfilment of their duties, and
its sound reasoning and great strength,as an argu-
mentative defense, have caused it to be regarded


by outsiders, who have expressed an opinion on
the document as one of the ablest papers ever
put forth by the Church.


THE AX FALLING.

	Within the last few weeks there have been a
number of nominations to offices in the Territory
of Utah. The first to hand in his resignation,
which was not done, however, until it was asked
for, was Governor Murray, whose policy of ob-
struction during the late session of the Legisla-
ture, and open enmity to the best interests of
the community became at last so outrageous that
the national Executive was compelled to relegate
him to private life. He found a successor within
the borders of his own state—Kentucky—in the
person of Caleb W. West. Next in the order of
prominence and of general interest came the
humiliation of that brilliant legal light, Judge
Orlando W. Powers. President Cleveland was
shrewd enough not to wait until the Senate reject-
ed the nomination. He withdrew it before they
took any action on it. Marshal Ireland, of un-
savory fame and conspicuous effeminacy, was not
long left in doubt as to the feeling his course
called forth. The very day his term expired,
President Cleveland sent to the Senate the name
of his successor, Mr. Frank H. Dyer, of Park
City. In addirion to these, some other changes
have been made, which excite more or less inter-
est. Governor Ramsey, chairman of the Utah
Commission, who, it is said, has insisted on re-
signing for some time, has finally been relieved of
his duties as a member of that very useless but
costly piece of machinery. General McClernand
is named to fill his place. General McCook, who
has been in command at Fort Douglas for some
time past, has been "promoted," or at least
changed to Fort Leavenworth. So many changes
in so short a time have been very rare in the his-
tory of Utah.


RETROSPECTIVE.

	History is being made very rapidly nowadays in
Utah.  In after years it will almost seem incred-
ible that so many events of interest connected
with the Church could have transpired in so short 
a time. The Saints are having daily manifesta-
tions to convince them that the Lord meant what
He said when He declared that He would have a
tried people.
	During the last eighteen months great changes
have taken place, and the end is not yet. As if it
were not sufficient that ruffianly deputy marshals
were allowed to come and go and carry out the
mandates of the court in their own brutal and un-
seemly manner, influence was brought to bear to
secure the presence of a larger body of military in
our midst, and a portion of these were used to
bring to this city a captured and wounded prisoner.
The arrest and punishment of a man to the full
penalty of the law,for living with and acknowledg-
ing his wives, is not now considered sufficient, and
the "segregating" process is resorted to, accord-
ing to which any man who is considered guilty
once may be indicted a dozen times or more for
the same offense. The first wife, she who is con-
sidered by the world the legal one, is now com-
pelled, contrary to all principles of law, to testify
against her husband as to his family relations
"Raids" continue without any cessation, and it
would seem that no "Mormon" domicile is safe
from the intrusion of the minions of the court.
The people are indeed becoming a tried people,
and they are being compelled to learn the lessons
of patience and forbearance.
	On the other hand, God has been good to His
people.  He has brought them to this land of
plenty,and made their feet fast in the valleys of the
mountains.  The fruitful soil and streams of liv-
ing water have not been denied them, and in all


their outgoings and incomings, their existence in
these mountains has proved that the blessings of
the heavens and the earth have not been withheld.
They have abundant cause to be thankful, and we
believe they are.


NOTICE.

	Members of the Deseret Hospital Association
are respectfully notified that next month, May, is
the time for renewing their subscriptions. At-
tention to this notice will much oblige,
		H. B. CLAWSON, Prest.,
		E. HOWARD, Ass't Sec.


OUR CHILDREN.

	One of the most forcible remarks, at the late
General Conference, was made by Apostle John
Henry Smith, which was, in substance, that the
Latter-day Saints were probably under greater
condemnation for neglecting to teach their child-
ren the things of God and lead them in His ways,
than for any other thing.
	How this sentiment should strike home to the
heart of every father and mother in this Church,
as a reproof to some, a warning to others and a
new impetus to all.  Is there any other gift or
blessing which the Lord bestows upon us in this
life so precious as our children?  Emphatically
no!  And shall we, dare we, neglect this greater
gift, while we pet and foster lesssr ones?  Had
such neglect never been known among the peo-
ple of God in this dispensation, should we find
infidelity among the young in Zion?  I cannot
hink we would.
	And what must we teach our little ones, as a
afeguard against the insidious wiles of the de-
stroyer of souls?  Teach them this one principle
—pure, true, heavenly love.  Is love all, then,
that our children need to be taught? "Perfect
love casteth out all fear." Where no fear is
found, perfect confidence must be established.
What more remains to be done, that salvation
may be secured, where perfect love of God and
perfect confidence in Him exist?  Jesus said, "If
ye love me, ye will keep my commandments."
This comprehends the whole matter.
	If we so live that our children may love us as
they should, will they not follow our admonitions?
In almost every instance they will, and if our ex-
amples before them are blameless, though some
of them should go astray, we can feel that we are
free from censure.  We are not capable of teach-
ing our children the pure principle of love, if we
fail to make it the ruling attribute of our own
lives.
   Can a husband and wife who are in the habit
of disagreeing expect to see real harmony among
their children?  Love and harmony are not to be
enforced, they must live in hearts, or they cannot
sparkle from eyes or sp[-]ak from lips.  There are
some things that children may be compelled to do,
but there is only one way of educating them to
love one another and delight in doing each other
good.  This comes of constant training; and the
one best method in teaching it is by parental ex-
ample.	
   There is not a commandment which has been
given us of God, but is replete with love in all its
bearings.  And all our instruction to our children
should be given in the same spirit.  Parents
should never be afraid of letting their children
know how dearly they are beloved; this cannot in
any wise diminish the respect a child should feel
for a parent.  Yet some fathers and mothers seem
fearful of allowing the least familiarity with their
children, lest by so doing they may lose some
power of control.  I cannot think it possible that
such could be the result of loving thoughts, how-


ever freely they might be expressed. I believe
with Fanny Fern: 
	"Too much indulgence has spoiled many a
child; too much love not one."
		LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. T. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Eastern Arizona Stake was held at
Snowflake, March 12th, 1886, Prest. Emma S
Smith presiding. After singing and prayer,
the following ward societies were represented
by their respective presidents: Taylor, Show-
low, Woodruff, Snowflake Camp, Erastus, St. 
Johns and Snowflake. All were in a flourish-
ing condition. The sisters were united, and
felt a desire to build up the kingdom. The
statistical and financial reports were read,
showing the different branches to be in a bet-
ter condition than heretofore.
	Coun. Emily Lewis then spoke to the sisters,
giving good counsel and advice on subjects
of interest.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith spoke in regard to
the teachings children should receive from 
their mothers. Was grateful for the good re-
ports, and felt the Spirit of the Lord had been 
with us. 
	After singing, conference was adjourned for
three months. Benediction pronounced by
Bro. Oscar Mann.
		DELLA FISH, Secretary.

HOLDEN, MILLARD CO.
	Minutes of the fifteenth anniversary of the
Holden Relief Society, held in the meeting
house, March 15th, 1886, Prest. N. M. Ashley
presiding. Minutes of last annual meeting
were read, also statistical and financial reports.
The programme, consisting of songs, recita-
tions, dialogues, etc., was carried out as
arranged.
	Stake Prest., Elizabeth Yates, felt to en-
courage the sisters to go on in the good work.
She rejoiced in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
spoke of the necessity of relying upon the
Lord; advised mothers to train their children
to live in the fear of the Lord.
	Bishop D. R. Stevens gave much good coun-
sel, and dwelt a short time on the storing of
grain.
	Prest. N. M. Ashley and others each occu-
pied a few minutes, all encouraging the sisters
to diligence in their labors. After singing by
the choir, the benediction was pronounced by
A. P. Harmon.
		N. M. ASHLEY; Prest.,
		KATE STEVENS, Ass't Sec.
	Some ringing resolutions, as to the course
of Utah Federal officials in enforcing the law, 
etc., were adopted and forwarded; lack of 
space prevents their publications.—ED.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The ladies' quarterly conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Zion convened at Pima, 
March 19th, 1886, President Willmarth East
presiding. On the stand of the Stake authori-
ties were Prest. C. Layton and Counselors,
also Bishop John Taylor of Pima.
	After the usual opening exercises, the
minutes and reports were read and approved.
Verbal reports of the following wards were
given by their respective presidents; Pima,
Curtis, Graham, Central, Thatcher and Layton,
all of which were reported in good running 
order. 
	Prest. East and Coun. Ransome addressed
the conference, the leading subjects spoken up-
on being the persecutions of the Saints at the

[Column 2]

present time as compared with facts of ancient
history. The speakers referred to the Ladies'
Mass Meeting held in Salt Lake City recently,
and were proud to hear the mothers and
daughters of Zion stand forth in defense of
the most sacred principles ever revealed for
the exaltation of the human family. We
were urged to be humble and prayerful before
the Lord, attend our meetings, and to be ever
ready to respond to the calls made by those in
authority over us, that we may attain to that
degree of glory that is in store for the faithful.
The time was very limited, the afternoon being
devoted to the Primary, in giving reports and
receiving instructions. An excellent spirit
prevailed, and all felt well paid for and great-
ly blessed in attending. Conference adjourned
for three months.
		LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Sec. 

SEVIER STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It having been some time since we sent you
any report from this Stake of Zion, we respect-
fully submit the following:
	Our quarterly conference convened here on
the 12th ult., President Elizabeth Bean presid-
ing. The Spirit of God prevailed, much
excellent instruction was given and many
strong testimonies borne. Reports were re-
ceived from every branch in the Stake, num-
bering nineteen, which were very encouraging,
showing them to be in a prosperous condition,
and faithfully performing the noble mission
given them, of caring for the poor, attending
to and blessing the sick, aiding in the great
work of building Temples, storing grain against
a day of famine, and assisting in building up 
the kingdom generally.
	During the past year our Stake board of
officers have visited nearly every branch in
the Stake, encouraging and assisting them as
much as lay in their power, and feel happy in
being able to report that God has abundantly
blessed them in their labors, as also the differ-
ent branches of the Stake. A determination
exists among them to be faithful and true to
the covenants they have made, that the perse-
cution now so fiercely raging against us as a
people shall only tend to make us more united
and diligent in our efforts to serve God. We
honor and bless our worthy sisters who assem-
bled in mass meeting in Salt Lake City, for
their noble efforts to defend and preserve to us
our God-given and inestimable rights, and
from the depth of our hearts feel to endorse
and reiterate their sentiments. We are also
thankful for the EXPONENT, which is truly a
blessing to and an earnest defender of the
women of Zion. Ever praying for its success,
we subscribe ourselves,
	Your co-laborers in the cause of truth,
			ELIZABETH BEAN,
				Prest. Central Board,
			C. A. HUNT, Secretary.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
San Juan Stake was held at Bluff City, March
22nd, 1886. There were present on the stand
Prest. F. A. Hammond and Counselors,
Bishop Jens Neilson and Counselors, Prest.
Jane M. Walton and Counselors. Meeting
was called to order by Prest. Jane M. Walton,
who made a few opening remarks. She was
thankful that there was a Relief Society, and
knew it was of great benefit to the sisters and
also to the Bishops of the wards. She spoke
of the persecutions the Saints went through
when the Church was first organized, and also
of the present crusade the Saints were under-
going, and that we would have to be humble
and prayerful or we would not be able to
stand.
	Coun. Kisten Neilson and Josephine Wood

[Column 3]

also Coun. Margaret Haskell expressed their
joy in having a standing in the Church of
God and as members of the Relief Society.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond said he was pleased 
with the reports of the different wards, and
testified that the Relief Society was of great
benefit to a ward, which was not thoroughly
organized without them. There was a great
field of labor for the mothers of Zion, and
there was no end to their usefulness.
	Harriet Barton, Mary N. Jones, Martha Ham-
mond and Agnes Allen each bore a strong
and faithful testimony to the work of God, as
did also Elsie Neilson, Eliza Reed, Mary
Adams and Annie Decker. 
	Bishop Jens Neilson was pleased to have the
privilege of meeting with the sisters. He
knew that the mothers had more influence with
their children than the fathers, and encouraged
the sisters in their great work.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few closing
remarks, after which our conference adjourned
for six months.
		JANE M. WALTON, Prest.,
		JULIA N. BUTT, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE. 
	The thirtieth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was held
in the Tabernacle in Brigham City, March 
9th, 1886, Sister Harriet Snow presiding. Af-
ter the usual opening exercises, the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accept-
ed, and twenty-one written reports were read
by the Secretary.
	Sister Perry, Prest. of the Society at Three
Mile Creek, had not attended the two previous
conferences, but considered it a great privilege
to enjoy these meetings. Spoke of two good
faithful sisters who had lately died in her
ward. We ought to understand the principles
of our religion, that mothers may be able to
teach their little children to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things. Let us not
deceive ourselves in thinking we are something
that we are not. Exhorted the mothers to
guard their children well, remarking that we
took great pains in dressing the body, but
should take more pains to clothe the spirit and
lay up treasures in heaven. Miss Fannie
Graehl, Treasurer, read her financial report,
and made some interesting remarks.
	Sister Albertsen, President of the Bear
River City Society, said the good sisters in her
ward felt united and well-toward each other,
and hoped all would prove faithful. She was
followed by Sister Dewey, Prest. at Deweyville,
who bore a strong testimony. 
	Sister Harper, Prest. at Calls Fort, said
when we are persecuted, we draw nearer to-
gether. If at present we are not so united as
we ought to be, let us strive to do better, and
learn to guard each other's interest.
	Sister Watkins, President of the 4th Ward,
thought this a time that we should strive to
live faithful and be wide awake teaching our
children to pray and being prayerful ourselves.
	Sister Andersen, President of the 3rd Ward,
who had been sick several months, remarked:
It is said, those who leave father and mother
for Jesus' name sake, shall receive a hundred
fold again. This she had seen manifested, for
the brethren and sisters could not have been
more kind if they had been her own relations.
	After some concluding remarks from Prest.
Harriet Snow, conference adjourned until 2
o'clock.
	Afternoon session: Sister Susannah P. Booth,
President of the 1st Ward, was the first speaker:
"I think it is high time we have something to
draw us nearer together as a band of sisters.
In our meetings we are blest with the Spirit
of the Lord; our mission, as a Relief Society,
is to assist those who are bowed down with
sickness and sorrow, or in destitute circum-
stances."


Emilia D. Madsen thought some might be
tempted to say concerning our case, "If this is
the true kingdom of God, why does not the
Lord take care of His own?" But we should
remember Jesus Christ, "in whom the Father
was well pleased," who, when crucified between
two thieves, was tantalized by them with the
remark, "If Thou art the Son of God, save
thyself." It was for Him to submit to all
things, and it is for us to acknowledge His
hand in every trial.
	Mary E. Snow, President of the 2nd Ward,
spoke of the love and good feeling we beget by
working together for each other's interest.
	Bro. E. A. Box said, "The Lord has brought
pressure upon us to purify us, and if we do all
in our power to purify ourselves perhaps the
Lord will shorten the time. We out here in
the mountains are very apt to suppose the
world very learned, very wise, and ourselves
ignorant, but the world of mankind is not
learned; some few are, but the great masses are
not educated. One might study and attain
great wisdom, and still know nothing of God.
The wise men of the earth take all the honor
to themselves, but we give all the honor to 
God. We have lived here in peace for many
years, and it has been stated that hereafter,
when we associate with those who have suffered
persecution, even laid down their lives, we
would feel injustice was done to us, in that we
were overpaid."
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg said, "If we have
the Spirit of the Lord in our hearts, we must
feel that every word is true we have heard
here." She felt that the sisters of Brigham
City, as a whole, were trying to live their re-
ligion. In reporting the Scandinavian sisters'
association, she bore a strong testimony to the
work of the Lord.
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few concluding
remarks after which the conference adjourned
for three months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
A MORMON PETITION.
	Mr. Blair presented to the Senate yesterday
a long petition, sent to him from Utah and al-
leged to have been signed by women of that 
territory. It is understood that the petition
was written by a well-known Mormon attor-
ney, and is a device to gain sympathy for the
"Saints." This petition relates various alleged
circumstances in which United States officers
are said to have entered the bedrooms of Mor-
mon women to ascertain whether or not the
law was being violated.—Evening Star, April
7th.

THEIR PROTEST AGAINST WRONGS AND
GRIEVANCES.

		WASHINGTON, April 8, 1886.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING STAR:
	In the Evening Star of April 7th I find,
under the heading "A Mormon Petition,"
some errors stated that I am prepared to cor-
rect, in reference to the memorial of the
women of Utah recently presented in
the Senate of the United States by
the Hon. Henry W. Blair. The mem-
orial was drafted by a committee of
"Mormon" women, whose signatures were at-
tached to each engrossed copy, this committee,
having been nominated at a mass meeting of
over two thousand women from all parts of
the territory, while assembled to protest against
the wrongs and grievances under which they
are suffering from the maladministration of the
Edmunds law of 1882; and also against the
disfranchisement of the women of Utah, who

[Column 2]
have voted for sixteen years, and who are
not even accused of violating any law, and
other measures included in the Edmunds bill,
which recently passed the Senate of the
United States.
	"Mormon" women have, surely, some rights
left that ought to be respected, and one of
these is the right to petition the President and
the Congress of the United states for redress,
and of presenting to them and to the people,
facts and incidents in relation to the existing
condition of affairs in the Territory where
they reside, which are of vital importance to
the welfare of the community, and specially
oppressive in application to those mosst deep-
ly interested.
	The Edmunds law of 1882 is sufficiently
rigid when enforced, to satisfy those who are
really anxious to abolish "polygamy," and to
adopt harsher measures and add severity and
cruelty to the administration is not only an in-
justice to those already suffering punishment
but amounts to positive persecution.
	Do the American people forget that these
women, against whom such a pressure of cir-
cumstances is brought to bear at the present
time, are their sisters in the one great family
of the Union; and that they have human
hearts and affections as tender and true as
their own? Do they realize that it is simply
because of their religious faith, and for a prin-
ciple of it, which they hold to be sacred and di-
vine, that they are suffering these hardships?
If they do, is it not in the interest of humanity
to see that no cruelty is inflicted upon these
women and children, but that the law be hu-
manely and wisely administered by men who
have common sympathy and true respect for
motherhood and the purity of little children?
	That "Mormon" women are harrassed and
annoyed and insulted unnecessarily by un-
principled men employed as deputy marshals
and spies, who have no genuine respect for
womanhood, and think any measure will be
justified in dealing with the wives and daugh-
ters of "Mormons," is very apparent, and cer-
tainly calls loudly and should not call in vain,
for an investigation in regard to these offenses,
and a radical change in dealing with such a
delicate matter as the severing of family ties
and the breaking up of homes that were so
dear to those who toiled together to establish
them, and whose hearts are entwined around
each other so closely that to separate them is
to inflict a wound that only divine love can
ever heal.
	The incidents cited in the memorial referred
to are only a few of the many cases in which
insults and outrages upon propriety and even
common decency have been committed by
men who usurp authority in out of the way
districts and places, intimidating with threats
and in various ways defenseless women and
children. When at home in Salt Lake City I
am almost daily in receipt of letters from
different parts of Utah, Arizona and Idaho
giving information in detail of facts pertain-
ing to arrests, serving of writs, warrants and
the misconduct of these deputies and spies.
Houses are broken into in the night time, the
sleeping apartments of women are causelessly[-]
invaded and the occupants insulted. Whole
families are arrested and dragged before grand
juries, and women and children are terrorized
and interrogated in an indecent manner by
hectoring district attorneys and their assistants
in office. Do you think such things reasonable
because the women are "Mormons?"
	In the interest of motherhood, of young
women and children of tender years, and in
the interest of universal humanity, I appeal to
the mothers of America, and entreat them to
consider the situation in Utah, brought feel-
ingly and forcibly to their notice in the me-
morial just presented to Congress, and would
ask them to investigate the subject without

[Column 3]
prejudice, before further cruelties and greater
hardships are imposed upon a people already
suffering persecution for conscience sake.
	As one of the delegates sent here to present
the memorial of the women of Utah to the
President and to the Congress of the United
States, I felt called upon to reply to the un-
favorable notice of it in your paper; and as I
have been delegated on other occasions to re-
present the "Mormon" women at the national
capital and elsewhere, and am the editor of
the "Mormon" woman's paper, I feel author-
ized to speak in their behalf, and to defend
their interests in whatever way possible, and
especially at this time, when the flood of pre-
judice and misrepresentation is brought to
bear against them so heavily; and as the friend
of all who love justice and desire to protect
human rights, I remain, very respectfully, &c.,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editor "Woman's Exponent,"
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
From the Evening Star, Washington, April 10.


A MINUTE'S ANGER.

	Not long ago, in a city not far from New
York, two boys, neighbors, who were good
friends, were playing. In the course of the
game a dispute arose between the two boys, 
and both became angry; one struck the other, 
and finally one kicked the other, who fell un-
conscious in the street, was taken home, and
now for four weeks has suffered most cruelly. 
The doctors say that if he lives he will never
be well, and will always suffer and need the
constant care of a physician. If the boys had
been the greatest enemies they would not, 
could not, have desired a worse fate for each
other than this. But, instead of enemies, they
were friends and loving companions. Now
everything is changed. One will never be 
able to walk, or to take part in active games; 
the other will never forget the sufferings he
has caused. 
A minute's anger caused this.—Christian
Union.


VOTING BY PROXY.

	Long before the advent of Susan B. An-
thony or Mrs. Stanton as the champions of
woman suffrage, a law was enacted in Berne,
Switzerland, allowing women to vote by proxy,
but history has not yet recorded an instance
in which a woman has taken advantage of the
privilege, until at the last municipal election,
which occurred in November last. The libe-
rals being largely in the majority, the reaction-
ary party resorted to a piece of strategy to
gain the victory, not dreamed of by their op-
ponents. They quietly hunted up the old law
giving the right of suffrage, in matters affect-
ing the municipal affairs of Berne, to such
women as possessed realty, and succeeded in
carrying the election by ninety-seven majority
in a total vote of 4,260. The law provides
that the voting of the women must be done
by male proxies. About six hundred such
proxies were written the day before the elec-
tion. In commenting upon this surprise, a
liberal Swiss paper says that the victory gained
in such an "unmanly" manner will be proven
a barren one, as the election of a number of
new members to the council will take place
next December, when the liberals expect to
make use of the same persuasive arguments.


SLEEP AND WASTE OF LIFE.

	Sleep will do much to cure irritability of
temper, peevishness and uneasiness. It will
build up and make strong a weary body. It
will do much to cure dyspepsia, partionlarly


that variety known as nervous dyspepsia. It
will relieve the languor felt by consumptives.
It will cure hypochondria. It will cure the
headache. It will cure the neuralgia. It 
will cure a broken spirit. It will cure sorrow.
Now no man should do more work of muscle
or of brain, in a day, than he can perfectly
recover from the fatigue of in a good night’s
rest. Up to that point, exercise is good; be-
yond, are waste of life, exhaustion and decay.
When hunger calls for food, and fatigue de-
mands rest, we are in the natural order, and
keep the balance of life. When we take stimu-
lents to spur our jaded nerves, or excite an
appetite, we are wasting. There are wrong
and mischief in all waste of life. A man
should live so as to keep himself at his best,
and with a true economy. To eat more food
than is needful, is worse policy than tossing
money into the sea. It is a waste of labor and
a waste of life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WASHING-DAY HINTS.

	A practical housekeeper, writing to the
Congregationalist, says she has tested the fol-
lowing recipe for lightening the labor of wash-
ing-day, and recommends others to try the ex-
periment, being careful to follow the directions
exactly:
	Fill the boiler two-thirds full of water, and
shave a bar of good soap in it. When the
water boils, and the soap is dissolved, add two
tablespoonfuls and a half of kerosene oil. It
will immediately unite with the soap; and, if
you have been exact with the amount of each,
there will be no oil on the top of the water.
Now put the cleanest pieces, like table cloths
and napkins, without previous soaking or wet-
ting, loosely into the boiler. Do not put too
many pieces in at a time. Boil hard for ten
minutes, then rinse through two waters and
hang out to dry. Put more pieces in the same
boiler. Examine the articles of body clothing
after they are taken out, and, if not thorough-
ly cleansed, put them back in the boiler for
another ten minutes, or else rub lightly.
	If the washing is very large, there should be
a renewal of the soap and oil, but for an or-
dinary washing once is enough. In an hour
and a half the work is all done for a family
of six persons. The clothes are white as snow,
and there is not the wear and tear of the
clothing by rubbing, above all there is not the
wear and tear of nerves caused by disagreeable
labor, or by the more disagreeable and incompe-
tent washerwoman.


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS.

	Cistern water may be purified by charcoal put in a bag
and hung in the water.

	Glaze the bottom crust of fruit pies with the white of an
egg and they will not be soggy.

	Molasses Cookies.—Three eggs, two cupfuls of molasses,
one cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, and a heaping
teaspoonful of saleratus.

	If you have occasion to use cloths wet in hot water
about an invalid, do not try to wring them out of the water.
The best way to prepare them is to steam them; they can
then be handled with comparative ease.

	Antidote for Poison.—In any case of poisoning, swallow
instantly a glassful of cold water with a teaspoonful each of
ground mustard and salt stirred in. This is a speedy
emetic. When it has acted, swallow the whites of two raw
eggs.

	To prepare an egg for a sick person, beat the egg until
very light; add seasoning to taste, and then steam until
thoroughly warmed through. This will not take more
than two minutes.  The most delicate stomach will be
able to digest it.

	Orange For Layer Cake.—Grate four oranges, and add
he whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of water, and


one and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Boil the eggs, sugar
and water together for fifteen minutes; then mix in the
orange, and it is ready to spread.

	A very soft and pretty fringe for home-made rugs may
be obtained by raveling out the good parts of old stock-
ings and mittens. The crinkled appearance is a pretty
feature, and it lasts for years under ordinary wear. Ex-
cellent effects are obtained by mixing the colors.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in Ovid, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, March 19th,
1886, after an illness of twelve days, Mary Jane Skinner
Petersen. She was the eldest daughter of John and Jane
Skinner, and wife of John Petersen. Sister Petersen was
born in Genesee Co., State of New York, Feb. 22nd, 1861.
She leaves a husband and three children, the youngest
only twelve days old, and many relatives and friends to
mourn her loss.
	She was a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., and respected
by all who knew her. She died in full faith of the Gospel,
and in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
		NETTIE S. JOHNSON, Prest.,
		ELIZABETH A. SORENSEN, Sec.

	DIED, at Paris, Bear Lake Co., Idaho Territory, of a
paralytic stroke, on the 23rd of March, 1886, Matilda
Mary, eldest daughter of Robert and Matilda Price. She
was born at Williamsburg, N. Y., Jan. 3rd, 1857, and was
a faithfnl member of the Church of Jesus Christ. She
acted as Assistant Secretary of the Relief Society, First
Counselor in the Young Ladies' Association, President in
the Primary Association of the Paris Second Ward, and
teacher in the Sunday School. She was energetic, and per-
formed all of her duties promptly. Her greatest ambi-
tion was to gain knowledge and do good to others. She
leaves an invalid husband, to whom she has been a loving
and faithful wife, also many relatives and friends, who
sadly mourn their loss.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, March 10th, 1886, of Brights
Disease, Sister Mary Ann Newman, in the 76th year of
her age. Deceased was born in Langtorf, Lincolnshire,
England, 1810. Embraced the Gospel in 1848; emigrated
to the United States in December, 1850. She buried her
husband in St. Louis the following February. In the 
fall of 1853 she arrived in the valley with her children, and
has resided in this city until her demise. The Elders who
visited her home in Witham, England, remember her un-
bounded hospitality, for hers was a home indeed to them.
A faithful wife, a devoted mother, a true Saint and a firm
friend, she has gone to her grave esteemed and beloved by
all  She leaves two sons and one daughter, twenty grand-
children and one great-grandchild.
		Millennial Star please copy.


[Column 1]	
Class in Obstetrics.

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a Class in Obstetrics on
	May 3d, 1886, at 2 p.m., at her
	Office, No. 16 Main Street.
TUITION, per term,	$10.00.
	Dr. Shipp's office hours are from 10 a.m., to 5 p.m.
Her residence is 34 Seventh East Street.
	The doctor has given special study to Obstetrics and
Women's Diseases.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[Text on left side of drawing of sewing machine going sideways]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Text on right side of drawing of sewing machine going sideways]
Will do Finer of Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine.  It has been 
in the Market 23 Years.

	Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,	Old	Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	“Domestic.”

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

	Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,  
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[Drawing of hand pointing to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

	AT	TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
Vol. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1886.		No. 23.


[Column 1]
THE MARRIAGE OF THE FLOWERS.

It is six, the swallows twittered, and you're very late in
		rising—
	If you really think of rising on this lovely morn at all—
For the great red sun is peeping over wood and hill and
		meadow,	  
	And the unmilked cows are lowing in the dimly lighted
		stall.

Oh, ye robins and ye swallows, thought I, throwing back
		the lattice, 
	Ye are noisy, joyous fellows, and you waken when you
		will;
Then I saw a dainty letter, bound in ribbons-grass and
		clover, 
	That the swallows had left swinging be the narrow
		window-sill.

Oh, the dainty, dainty letter, on an orange leaf, or lemon,
	Signed, "Your Friend, the Queen of Roses," writ in
		characters of dew:
	"You're invited to the garden, there's a good time there at
		seven,
	And a place beside the apple-tree has been reserved for
		you. 

	"There’ll be matings there, and marriages, of every flower
		and blossom:
	Cross the brook behind the arbor, and come early if you
		can."
Oh, my thoughts they all went bounding, and my heart
		leaped in my bosom,	
	"And how sweetly she composes," I reflected as I ran.

There she sat, the queen of roses, with her virgins all about
		her,
	While the lilacs and the apple blooms seemed waiting
		her command.
Oh, how lovely, oh, how gracious, she did smile on each
		new-comer!
	Oh, how sweet she kissed the lilies as she took them by
		the hand!

Never had I seen her fairer than she was this happy morn-
		ing.
	Never knew her breath delicious half so boundless, half
		so rare;
Oh, she seemed a thing of heaven, with the dew upon her
		bosom,
	And I wished I were some daffodil that I might kiss it
		there. 

All at once the grass rows parted, and the sweetest notes
		were sounded, 
	There was music, there was odor, there was loving in
		the air, 
And a hundred joyous gallants, robed in holiday apparel,
	Danced beneath the lilac bushes with a hundred maid-
		ens fair.

There were tulips proud and yellow, with their great green
		spears beside them, 
	There were lilies grandly bowing to the rose queen as
		they came;
There were daffodils so stately, scenting all the air of hea-
		ven,
	Joyous buds, and sleepy poppies, with their banners al
		aflame. 

There were pansies robed in purple, marching o'er the 
		apple blossoms, 
	And the foxgloves with their pages tripped coquettishly 
		along,
And the violets and the daisies, in their bonnets blue and 
		yellow, 
	Joined the marching and parading of th' innumerable 
		throng. 

All at once the dandelion blew three notes upon his
		trumpet:
	Choose ye partners for the dancing, gallant knights and 
		ladies fair;

[Column 2]

And the honeysuckle courtesied to the young sweet-
		breathed clematis,
	And remarked upon the sweetness of the blossoms in 
		her hair.

"We're the tallest," said the tuberose to the iris standing 
		nearest,
	"And suppose that now, for instance, I should offer you 
		my heart?"
	"Oh, how sudden," cried the sly-thing, "I am really quite
		embarrassed—
	Unexpected, but pray do it, just to give the rest a start."

Then a daisy kissed a pansy, with its jacket brown and
		yellow.
	And a crocus led a thistle to a seat beside the rose;
And the maybells grouped, close beside the lady-slipper,
	And commented on her beauty and the splendor of her
		clothes.

"Oh, a market this for beauty," said a jasmine gently
		clinging
	To the strong arm of an orange, and a glance on him
		she threw;
"Why, you scarcely would believe it, but I've had this very 
		morning
	Twenty offers, and declined them, just to promenade
		with you."

So, in groupings or in couples, led each knight some gentle
		lady,
	Led some fair companion blushing past the wind-rows, 
		fresh and green,
And the sweet rose gave her blessing, and a kiss at times,
		it may be,
	To the fairest brides, and sweetest, mortal eye hath ever
		seen.

Then again the grass it parted, and the sunshine it grew 
		brighter,
	Till it seemed as if the curtains of high heaven were 
		withdrawn,
	And each flower and bud and blossom pressed some 
		fair one to its bosom,
	As the bannered train danced gayly twixt the wind-rows	
		on the lawn. 

Oh, the musk-rose was so stately, and so stately was the 
		queen rose, 
	And how sweetly smiled she on me as she whispered in
		my ear,
	"Come again, you know you're welcome; come again, dear, 
		for it may be
	That our baby buds and blossoms will be christened
		here next year.
									SELECTED.


[Column 1]
			WHY IS IT? 
	The people of Utah, in the midst of all their
troubles, can derive satisfaction from the
thought that, as things appear, the position
they have taken is one from which to dislodge
them their enemies are forced to employ unfair 
and extraordinary means. 
	One would naturally suppose, if the "Mor-
mon" community were made up of the vile 
and characterless wretches they are reputed
to be, it would only be necessary to tell the 
truth about them, and that would suffice for
every purpose of even their bitterest foes; that
it would not be needful in working for their 
overthrow to falsify their religious and politi-
cal views, distort their sayings and put strained
and unwarrantable constructions upon their 
acts in order to make them odious in the eyes
of mankind. 
	And yet these things are being done con-
stantly by those who boast of fairness, liberali-
ty, patriotism, chivalry, charity, piety, and all 
the graces of the Gospel calendar, and who

[Column 2]
never tire of drawing the contrast between the 
superiority of their Christian civilization and
the degrading practices of the "Mormons." If
the conversion of this alleged misguided peo-
ple, and not, as many believe, their extermina-
tion is the end desired, it would seem to be a
queer way of impressing them with the idea
that that vaunted superiority does not exist
entirely in the imagination of its professors. 
	To misstate an opponent's position and then
fiercely assail him in that position, may show
energy and in some instances earnestness, but
it is certainly anything but fair and chivalrous,
with all due respect for those mythical "Ameri-
can gentlemen," whose egotism so often asserts, 
but as often fails to prove, otherwise. 
	To cull from a speaker's remarks only such 
portions as by isolation and prejudiced com-
ment can be made to appear "treasonable" and
unchristianlike, and purposely ignore other
parts that would by association explain and
make clear and innocent the speaker's meaning, 
s anything but upright and honorable, and
smacks more of the demagogue than of the 
patriot, of lying than loyalty. And yet this
is the course almost invariably pursued by
rabid anti-"Mormon" editors and reporters 
who have so much to say about "Mormon 
treason" and "Mormon trickery." 
	Why this reluctance to tell "the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth" in
professing to report what a "Mormon" Elder
says to his congregation? Is it because the
simple truth would not serve the purpose
which the garbled and distorted "report" is 
intended to subserve? And if so, is it not a
confession of cowardice, weakness and dishon-
esty on the part of those responsible for its use? 
It looks very much as if the "Mormons" and
their religion were feared quite as much as they 
are hated; and that there is something about 
them which their enemies wish to keep hidden, 
the exposure of which would tend to defeat 
their plans and let daylight through their dark
and treacherous doings. 
	But the epidemic of anti-"Mormon" mis-
representation is not confined to this locality, 
nor to the newspaper profession. It rages
everywhere, frothing and foaming from the 
pulpit and thundering from the platform. It 
breaks out in Congress as the prelude to the
passage of every act of anti-"Mormon" special
legislation. And why these special laws? 
Why are not the restrictions that govern so-
ciety elsewhere stringent enough for the "Mor-
mons?" Why must the Constitution be ig-
nored in enacting laws against us, and then
the law itself ignored in the extraordinary
methods adopted by those charged with enforc-
ing it? Is it not tantamount to a confession
by the law-making power that the "Mormons" 
are obeying all laws that ought to govern so-
ciety; and an admission by the courts that this
peaceable, law-abiding people cannot be caught
by a measure passed purposely to entrap them,
except the law itself be trampled under foot
by those who have sworn to uphold and exe-
cute it? 
	This way of forcing the Mormon ques-
tion into such "undue prominence" is, to say
the least, bad policy on the part of a govern-
ment as great as this professes to be—the
spectacle of fifty-five millions of people stirred
to the very depths over a problem involving 
at the most a little handful of 150,000 souls, is
little less than ludicrous; especially when we
hear it asserted by those who assume to know


that a “Mormon war” at the present time
would be the most popular thing the United
States could engage in; that all the great ques-
tions affecting a thousand times more the safe-
ty and welfare of the Republic could be lost
sight of and forgotten, and the gigantean
mind of the whole country absorbed and swal-
lowed up in the paltry enterprise of subjugating
a handful of “religious fanatics,” so called,
peaceably occupied in tilling the soil of a
desert by them redeemed, and made fruitful,
and singing praises in their own way to the
God whom they list to serve in this land of
religious liberty. If this would not be taking
a thunderbolt to kill a flea, what would it be?
	We repeat that the “Mormons,” in spite of
persecution, can derive satisfaction from the
thought that their opponents cannot afford, for
reasons best known to themselves, to treat
them fairly and honorably. They ought to
feel flattered that they arethe objects of so much,
unnecessary attention, and that a war for their
subjugation or extermination would be the most
popular movement that could be made by the
foremost nation of modern times. Vive la.
bagatelle!
				ORSON F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We are almost out of the world here, and
do not receive the news very readily, but as
soon as we obtained a paper with the account
of the Ladies' Mass Meeting in Salt Lake City,
we called our Society, or what is left of it, to-
gether. The Preamble and Resolutions, with
the Addresses, were read, and listened to with
interest, and notwithstanding we are far away
and few in numbers, we fully endorse the senti-
ments of our leading sisters as our own, and
are with them heart and soul in the present
movement.
	Our Relief Society was reorganized on Jan.
1st, 1885, with Mary A. Farnsworth, Presi-
dent; Amanda Foutz and Bella Farnsworth,
Counselors; Annie D. Farnsworth, Secretary.
We held one meeting under our new organiza-
tion, and then we were again broken up. Some
have become discouraged and moved away for
good, others are absent on account of the perse-
cutions that are being heaped upon our peo-
ple.
	Our general health is good as it always
is; death, excepting from accident and old age,
has never visited us during the seven years of
our settlement here. Our postoffice address is
Tuba City, though the place is better known by
the name of Moan Coppy. We have a weekly
mail now, still there seems to be some irregu-
larities, which we hope will be overcome in
time.
				MARY A. FARNSWORTH
	Tuba City, Arizona.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I thought a few words from this out of the
way place might be of interest to the many
readers of your valuable paper, which is read
with great interest at our firesides, or in our
meetings. We love to know what our sisters
are doing in the different stakes of Zion, We
have a little band of sisters in this branch of
the Fremont Ward that are striving to do
their duty in taking care of the sick and poor,
in throwing in their mites to build Temples and
assist in every good work. We have a good
Sunday School, which is well attended by old
and young. Our Primary is also in good con-
dition. Great credit is due to the officers of
both associations, for the great interest they
take in the welfare of the young and rising 
generation.
	We had a good time here on the 4th of this


month. One of our brethren, Peter I. Ecklem,
was called to go on a mission, and the Relief
Society thought they would give him a sur-
prise. At half past six p.m., the time ap-
pointed for gathering, a long table was spread 
in the meeting house, at which about one hun-
dred and fifty partook of the good things of 
the earth. When the tables were cleared
away, the time until twelve o'clock was spent
in speech making, singing, dancing, etc. All
went home feeling that they had had a good
time—one long to be remembered by our de-
parted missionary.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we
remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				S. J. MORRELL, Prest.,
				M. R. MORRELL, Sec.
	Spencer, Sevier Co.


MARRIAGE AMONG THE TURCO-
				MANS.

	The Turcoman women do a vast amount of
work. They fabricate carpets, screens for
doors, work bags, horse clothing, blankets, and
when a young woman is engaged it is thought
to be the right thing for her to work all the
kibitka or tent domestic carpets and other
household requisites before she is married.
When, however, she does marry without hav-
ing completed this task, it is expected from 
her that as soon as practicable by her own
labor she will refund in cash or kind to her
husband the dowry paid to her parents on
marriage. Such dowry generally consists of
100 sheep and a certain amount of money,
which the bridegroom either pays down in a
lump sum to the parents of the bride or by
stipulated installments. Before a wedding it
is customary for the bridegroom, after having
arranged for the dowry to be paid to the pa-
rents of the bride, to collect his friends for a 
succession of horse races and other sports, as
also to secure and decorate a camel with the
handsomest trappings, which is sent to the
bride's kibitka, and on which she mounts and
goes forth to receive the congratulations of her
own relatives. On the appointed day of the
wedding the bride seats herself on a carpet
outside her tent, surrounded by her people,
and the female relatives of the bridegroom go
down to receive and take her away. This is
immediately opposed by the young lady's
party, who offer resistance by the discharge of
raw eggs, etc., at the new comers, on which a
general egg-fight is entered into by the young
women present, whilst the older dames carry
on the engagement with almonds and raisins.
In the meantime the bridegroom rushes into
the melee, walks off his beloved, and puts her 
upon the camel-saddle, when the matter is con-
cluded. Another sort of marriage, called
"gulcha," where the girl of her own accord
runs off with the young man without reference
to her parents, is accepted as correct, pro-
vided he is of a like social position and duly
pays the prescribed dowry.


HOW TO CULTIVATE LETTUCE.

	The secrets of successful lettuce culture are
early sowing, rich, well-prepared soil, and giv-
ing the plants plenty of room. The seed
should be sown early, because being small, it
must be [---]ted shallow, and hence cannot en-
dure much drought, and also because lettuce
is a cool-weather plant, and so thrives better in
the moist and mild weather of spring, than
the dry and hot weather of summer. The
soil should be rich to promote rapid growth,
and well prepared to facilitate the germination
of the seed. As the plants of most varieties,
when fully developed, are a foot or more in


diameter, it is obvious that the rows should be
rather more than a foot apart; eigh[--]en to
twenty inches is a good distance. Sow the
seed rather thinly in the drills, and as soon as
the plants are sufficiently large for use, com-
mence thinning out the rows; at first to about
two inches apart. When the bed is passed
over in this way, go over it again, thinning
this time to four or more inches apart. By
following this method, removing each time
every alternate plant, the remaining ones
rapidly develop, and the later ones will grow
to an immense size, often a foot or more in
diameter.—Our Country Home.


WATCH THE CHILDREN'S FEET.

	The following advice from the New York
Evening Post is thoroughly practical, and de-
serves the attention of every mother: "Life-
long discomfort and sudden death often come
to children through the inattention or careless-
ness of parents. A child should never be al-
lowed to go to sleep with cold feet; the thing to
be last attended to is to see that the feet are
dry and warm. Neglect of this has often re-
sulted in a dangerous attack of croup, diph-
theria, or a fatal sore throat. Always on
coming from school, on entering the house 
from a visit or errand in rainy or muddy or
thawy weather, the child should remove its
shoes, and the mother should herself ascertain
whether the stockings are the least damp. If 
they are, they should be taken off, the feet
held before the fire and rubbed with the hands
till perfectly dry, and another pair of stock-
ings and another pair of shoes put on. The
reserve shoes and stockings should be kept
where they are good and dry, so as to be ready
for use on a minute's notice."


The Daily News, of London, with reference
to the great distress prevailing among the
working classes, calls attention to the excel-
lent system practiced by the Jews of the Eng-
lish metropolis in relieving the wants of their
poor. Of the 60,000 Jews living in London,
11,000 stand in need of assistance, which work
is attended to by a board which expends about
£17,000 annually; a branch of it makes loans
without interest charges—from £1 to £70,
which is paid back in weekly installments of
six pence. Only four per cent of it has been
lost. Part of the fund is applied for the pur-
pose of teaching trades to indigent children.
	Miss Isola Van Diest, M. D., the first woman
to take a medical degree in Belgium, has been
endeavoring for several years to obtain the
necessary authorization to practice. Writing
recently to a correspondent, she says: "I am
delighted to be able to inform you that I have
passed the examination imposed upon me, and
have surmounted all the obstacles thrown in
the way of women who would exercise the pro-
fession of a physician. I am at last established,
and enjoy all  the privileges of a Belgian doc-
tor. Many young women are now in our uni-
versities, and one of them has just succeeded
in becoming a pharmacist."


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending March 23rd, 1886, as follows:
	Louisa B. Linthicum, Helena, Ark., At-
tachment for Brake-ovens.
	Henrietta J. Lyon, Newark, N. J., Attach-
ment for Fronts.
	Amanda R. Smith, Prophetstown, Illinois,
Splasher-holder.
	Elizabeth Talcott, Boston, Mount for
Pictures and Photographs.
	Ida A. Seller, Unadilla, N. Y., Kitchen
Utensil.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.

TO THE MEMORY OF THE LATE SISTER MARINDA
HYDE, PRESIDENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
OF THE 17TH WARD.

Chide not the grateful loving tear, 
	The holy water of the soul, 
That falls upon Marinda's bier, 
	Which love forbids us to control. 

'Tis love's effusion that we shed,
	'Tis not the tear of vain regret
That consecrates the lowly bed
	Of her we never can forget. 

Methinks I see Marinda's smile, 
	Methinks I hear her low, soft voice; 
That of our grief doth us beguile,
	And bids us all rejoice! rejoice!

And tells us she has reached a home
	Not made by any earthly hands, 
Eternal in the heavenly dome
	With all that heaven itself commands. 

A higher hand than mine must hold
	The pen that traces out her life,
Which should be dip't in liquid gold
	To picture all with which 'tis rife!

But in our love, and deep respect 
	And rich appreciation, we
Will yield to none, when we reflect
	And know 'twas of a high degree.

Where shall we look to fill her place
	So mild, so gentle, yet so firm? 
The Christian lady, rich in grace, 
	A model, from which all should learn. 

Our tears will fall—but yet we know, 
	How vain, how needless are such tears; 
We are so selfish here below, 
	And nothing know, but what appears. 

But faith uplifts the mystic veil. 
	And in the scenes it points to view 
Sorrow no longer can prevail
	And love sighs forth a fond adieu!—

						HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
	SPRING.

"How shall I woo thee, beautiful spring, 
What shall my offering be?"

	Once more we are permitted to behold the most
beautiful quarter of the year—young, vernal, 
glorious spring! the season when all nature 
arises from her long, cold, deathly sleep, throws 
off her alabaster shroud of snow, enters her
dressing room and robes herself in glorious 
apparel of every hue and texture, and comes 
forth as a bride adorned for her bridegroom, 
the grand, gorgeous, life-giving sun! What
greater resurrection do we expect to see? The
resurrection of the human body can scarcely
be greater. Did we not know by yearly expe-
rience that such a transformation would take
place, we should probably be as skeptical with
regard to the grand final resurrection as many
are, even in this age of enlightenment and 
revelation. How could we believe, looking
on these apparently dead trees, these flowers,
dead to the surface, the earth itself a barren,
unsightly object, unless enveloped in her
shroud of snow, from which we recoil, and
pass into our warm habitations and shut the
door, and draw the curtains of the windows to 
exclude the cold, barren, howling wilderness 
outside! Earth looks as a corpse, upon which 
death has set his seal, which he actually has
done for an allotted time; when that time and
season has expired he has no power to retain 
his prey—as of old that Almighty voice is
again seen and felt—"Lazarus, come forth!" 
and, as of old, the sleeping form arises and
obeys the bidding of One who has the power
to resurrect. 
	Should not such thoughts and such repeated
experiences; that never fails, as there we have
 
[Column 2]
just recalled—should they not comfort and
cheer us when we lose our dear ones, and in 
contemplation of our own sleep of death? 
Our ignorance is our great affliction; our judg-
ment and our understanding of all these glori-
ous and mighty truths have been taken from
us, though the soul that lives to God has often
a glimmering of the untold glories of its future
home, sparks from off the eternal altar, which
it grasps with avidity, to feed the flame within
itself that is given to cultivate its immor-
tality. 
	I have often exclaimed that in spring my
soul seemed born anew; it seemed to partake of
the renovating influence thrown at that time
over all nature, and I drank from the halcyon 
cup and was refreshed and renewed by the
same. 
	In this region of country the spring is de-
cidedly not so thrillingly beautiful as in that
where I was reared. Beautiful singing birds
are not here to vocalize every tree and grove; 
the cuckoo, that eternal harbinger of spring, 
with its never varying note, is not here; the
blackbird and the thrush, with their exquisite
notes, are not here, and the nightingale, the
prima donna of  every grove, alas! she, above
all, is not here. The song of birds is to me 
the minstrelsy of heaven, and were it said to
me to-day, you shall choose whose song you
will hear, Patti or the nightingale, I would 
without hesitation say (after the long dearth I
have had of her divine song) "the nightin-
gale in the grove!" Take me there and leave
me alone with that soul-thrilling bird, and my
own thoughts, which she would cultivate and
inspire! But that delicious treat is a thing of 
the past, nor to be heard again by me till the
resurrection, when perhaps "the grove" and
its locality may be a part of my inheritance, 
and then I shall hear again my treasured bird 
in all her glory of resurrected inspiration. I 
suppose it was probably the extreme beauty of 
her song that gave rise to the legend that she 
was a beautiful maiden, but her history was
sorrowful, and she was changed into a bird 
named Philomela; hence her song retains a
melancholy pathos, and inspires feelings of
love and sympathy in her listeners. 
	There was a beautiful lyrical song in my
young days, sung at all the popular concerts—
I think it was composed by Professor Hobbs, 
one of the English composers, and sung by
him. He had a very fine voice, and was one
of the gentlemen of the Chapel Royal. The
words were something of the following. I quote
from memory of fifty years ago, so I may be
pardoned if I err in a word of two. 
		"As it fell upon a day 
		In the merrie month of May, 
		Sitting in a pleasant shade
		With a grove of myrtles made. 
		There Philomela, all forlorn,
		Leaned her breast upon a thorn, 
		That to hear her sore complain
		Scarce I could from tears refrain, 
		For her griefs so lowly shown
		Made me think upon my own." 
	Then followed a refrain, and the accompani-
ment to the words was so thrillingly beautiful, 
and the voice that enunciated it so accom-
plished and pathetic, that after all these long
years I can shut my eyes and the song and the
scene and the singer are heard through a
telephone of a long, long vista of time. Mem-
ory! memory! thou art a certain earnest of the 
immortality of thy possessors. 
	Some of my readers may probably think
that I telescope my ideas, and perhaps I do, 
but I only profess to write as my own heart 
and brain dictate, and as I do not "write for
hire or divine for money" if I do not please all
I know I shall strike some chords in some hearts.

	*The nightengale builds her nest with a
thorn springing up in the center; 

[Column 3]
that will respond in unison with mine, and for
them I write, and they are my inspiration. 
Those who remember the beautiful song I have
quoted will, I know, read it with pleasure. 
					HANNAH T. KING.


MISCELLANEOUS.
      It is not enough that you keep your finger
off from a man; you; must not let you ill-na-
tured or wicked thoughts touch him.

     Mr. Ruskin, alluding to children, says,
"Make them try always who shall speak truest,
both as regards the fact he has to relate and
the precision of the words he expresses it in,
thus making truth the test of perfect lan-
guage."

     There is nothing that pushes a man down-
wards so fast as to lose the respect of his fel-
lows. Let him perceive that he is regarded
with contempt, and he will soon be worthy of
it. Let his efforts be slighted, and he may
gradually cease to put them forth. Let him
be taunted with his ignorance, and it may be-
come even denser. No aid, however generous,
no instruction, however valuable, no compas-
sion, however sincere, can do their true work
for him, if they are unmingled with a certain
deference which is born of respect.
 
     Time is often said to be money; but it is
more—it is life. Yet how many there are
who would cling desperately to life, and yet
think nothing of wasting time. "For who
knows most, him loss of time most grieves."
Chesterfield's letters to his son, with a great
deal that is worldly and cynical, contain cer-
tainly much good advice. "Every moment,"
for instance, he says, "which you now lose is so
much character and advantage lost; as, on the
other hand, every moment you now employ 
usefully is so much time wisely laid out in
prodigious interest." "Do what you will," he
observes elsewhere, "but only do something."
"Know the true value of time; snatch, seize,
and enjoy every moment of it."


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	One of Helen Hunt Jackson's monuments
is to be the "Ramona" Indian School for Girls,
at Santa Fe.
	In Germany and Austria lamb-skins are
largely employed for kid-gloves; in France kid-
skins are used principally, and always for the 
best qualities.
	A municipal suffrage bill, and a bill making
women eligible as overseers of the poor, are
the two things which made the ladies happy
last week.—Boston Transcript.
	Good home-made bread for the market, be-
gun by women in Dubuque, Des Moines, and 
Chicago, has become so it is said, a steady
and remunerative business in each case.  This
is a good "home industry."
	Prof. Maria Mitchell, of Vassar College, ad-
vocates outdoor employment for women.  She
regrets to see women who are in astronomical
observatories work as recorders and computors
rather than observers.  Prof. Mitchell advo-
cates land surveying for women.  Why not?
	Mrs. James Bennett, of Kentucky, says to 
the men who argue that women have not sense
enough to vote:  "If you think the God who
made us did not know as much about the fool-
lishness of the woman on the day He made her
and commanded you to do unto her as you
would be done by, as you can teach Him to-day,
the sooner you stop talking about the foolish-
ness of women, and reflect upon your own
foolishness; the better for you."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten 
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
	NOTES FROM WASHINGTON.

	Washington possesses so many points of inter-
est, that it is difficult to decide which will be most
entertaining when one decides to make a good im-
presssion of it upon others, and present matters of
importance.  This is a delightful time of year, and
the city looks beautiful and the fragrance of the
blooming magnolias and lilacs, with that of the
early flowers, is abroad in the air.  It is the
Lenten season, and consequently there is less
gaiety and display than at other times.  There is
considerable gossip in reference to the President's
marriage with Miss Folsom of Buffalo, but apart
from gossip, no one seems to have real informa-
tion on the subject.  The President still pursues
the even tenor of his way, and is apparently as
unconcerned as though such a rumor had never
been circulated.  Miss Cleveland is still absent
in New York, and the White House is therefore
lacking in one of its great attractions, the presence
of a graceful, intelligent and charming woman.
Even a mansion with wealth and all its appurten-
ances at command needs a woman's tact and skill
to do the honors, and to fashion and arrange all
things tastefully and harmoniously, and as the 
President has no wife, it is an excellent thing for
him and for his friends, as well as all parties con-
cerned in the welfare of his home surround-
ings, that he has a sister who makes his cause her
 own, and fills the place of mistress at the White
House, so it is said, with all the dignity of a 
matron and etiquette of state, and yet has grave
opinions on the gravest questions of the day.
	But as  Latter-day Saints, our people are not
so much absorbed in matters pertaining to the
social etiquette and manners of Washington so-
ciety as in those that seriously affect the condition
of the "Mormons" at the present time.  What
Congress has done in legislating for Utah, and
what is likely to be done in the near future are the 
main questions of importance.  And as one of the
Delegates sent here to present the Memorial of
the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, it becomes a duty to mention to
our readers and the public some of the steps taken
to get the matter properly presented to those in
power.
	After some little delay in regard to the best
method to pursue, the Memorial was formally
presented to the President, and a personal inter-
view with him obtained, on Saturday, April 3rd,
in the library of the Executive Mansion.  He
promised to give the matter serious attention and
consideration, after listening to explanations upon
the subject.  We afterwards learned that he had 
carefully read the Memorial through, which is 
certainly more than he can do with all the memori-
als he receives.
	Hon. Henry W. Blair, Senator from New
Hampshire, presented the Memorial of the women
of Utah, in the Senate of the United States, on
Tuesday, the 6th of April, according to an arrange-
ment previously made with the ladies of the dele-
gation, and asked that it be printed in full in the

[Column 2]
Congressional Record, and as there was no audible 
objection it was done; therefore the wrongs and
grievances as set forth in that document have been
properly recorded in the pages of the journal of
the works of Congress, and stand there as a 
stubborn fact, to the condemnation of those who
perpetrated the outrages mentioned againts wives
and mothers in this land of freedom and liberty.
The wrongs and grievances have been heard, even
in high places, but the redress asked for may be
very slow in coming.  The prejudice is exceedingly
strong against the doctrines and institutions of
the Saints, but the persecution is spreading the
knowledge of truth as nothing else ever could
have done.  Surely it is "a marvelous work and a
wonder."
     On Thursday, the 8th of April, the Memorial
went to the House of Representatives, through
 the courtesy of Gov. Long of Mass., and he re-
quested that it be referred to the Committee on
Judiciary, which was accordingly done.  This
Committee have in their hands also the Senate
Bill No. 10, known as the new Edmunds Bill.
John Randolph Tucker is the Chairman—a very
kindly and wise man—a southern gentleman, large-
hearted and full of that chivalry toward women
which seems so thoroughly natural to the "old
Virginians."
	The Committee on Territories have in their
keeping the Woodburn and McAdoo bills, both
of them infamous in their provisions.  Every
woman should read them for herself, and know
just how the rights of American citizens are
threatened on account of religious belief.  It
seems to be the duty of the women of Utah
especially to examine the laws made on purpose
for them, their husbands and children.  The
women of the United States, generally speaking,
know very little of the government of their own
country, and yet they are ready to call out and 
condemn to punishment under the most offensive
laws, women and children, without even knowing
what measures are taken, or what misery or hard-
ship the enforcement of the laws will bring upon
those who have never even been accused of any
offense.  Talking recently with the wife of a very
popular Senator from an old and influential state,
she acknowledged she had never read the Ed-
munds Law of 1882, and did not know what its
methods were at all, but at whatever risk, poly-
gamy must go.  One of the members of the Com-
mittee expected to act upon that bill, stated, with-
out hesitation, that he had not yet read it, and had
not even seen the Memorial, nor would he promise
to glance through it, as his time was so occupied;
still, as he is expected to consider the bill in Com-
mittee, he will be obliged to read it, but without 
any information concerning the circumstances and
conditions of the people in whose interest, or
against whose interest and welfare the bill has
been expressly framed. However he has had a
few facts forcibly presented to him by the women
from Utah, who called upon him and enlightened
him a little on a few matters pertinent to the main
question.  It is a very common thing to be in-
structed by members to get a new revelation
abolishing or suspending the practice of plural
marraige, as though revelations were made to
order; some have been offered to receive them;
they do not recognize God in it, and yet one
would think they might very readily comprehend
that unless the practice was from a religious con-
viction men and women would not be willing to 
endure the persecutions and hardships and even
imprisonments they are now called upon to suf-
fer.
	The new Governor for Utah, Caleb W. West,
has been here in Washington several days; his
nomination has been confirmed by the Senate,
and he will probably reach Utah soon.  He is
very highly spoken of by leading men here,
notably Speaker Carlisle, and is no doubt a man
of ability, and disposed to be just to all parties.

[Column 3]
The lady delegates have had an opportunity of 
meeting him, and found him very affable and
pleasing in manner, and have formed a good
opinion of his qualifications for the position he
has been appointed to fill.
	One of the most intelligent and interesting men
we have had the pleasure of meeting here, is
George T. Curtis Esq., formerly of Boston, a
man of letters, the author of some valuable books
and an able member of the bar practising before
the Supreme Court here in Washington.  He
seems disposed to treat the "Mormon" question
with the utmost fairness, and does not, as many
do, count all "Mormons" criminals until they can
prove their innocence.  He is one of the most en-
tertaining conversationalists, brilliant in ideas and
logical in presenting facts.  He is familiar with
the history and records of the old New England
families, and his remembrances of names and
dates, for a man of business, at his time of life,
is something extraordinary.
	To hear some people talk, one would think the 
rights of the "Mormon" people hung by a single
thread, and that was just ready to break and pre-
cipitate them into parts unknown; but their wise-
acres may yet find that there is a strong cord which
holds this peculiar people, whom they count so
ignorant and obstinate, and that neither persecu-
tion nor oppression will break it asunder, try as 
they may.
	All that can be done here in presenting facts
and seeking to remove prejudice, seems only a 
drop in the ocean of public sentiment ar-
rayed against a people struggling with the
effects of falsehood and misrepresentation, but
one must not be weary in well doing even
though the opportunities may be few, and the
prejudice bitter.  Truth is sharp and often forces 
its own way into the human heart, though it may
be an unwelcome guest.  It is amusing to hear
men who hold their judgment in high estimation,
men who have held positions requiring them to
judge and decide important matters say it con-
fuses them to hear the statements made about
the present condition of affairs in Utah, and one
would suppose from their observations, they were
disposed to decide without information, just give a
leap in the dark, and leave the result hap hazard,
knowing too that it must involve much of happi-
ness or misery for those depending upon the
issues.  On one occasion the writer could scarce-
ly refrain from telling a member the old 
story of the judge, who when he had heard the
witnesses on one side of the case, declared he did
not want to hear those who represented the other
side as his mind was already made up.
	There is to be a hearing before the sub-Com-
mittee of Judiciary on the new Edmunds Bill,
etc., to-day and the Delegate from Utah will
speak, also other men of ability, and no doubt
they will present the strongest arguments possi-
ble in favor of the people whose rights are at
stake in the pending measures; but what effect it
will have upon the legislation remains unknown,
and will, in all probability, until the Bill is re-
ported in the House of Representatives.  The
case of Apostle Lorenzo Snow is to be argued
before the Supreme Court of the United States
by Hon. F. S. Richards of Salt Lake City and
George T. Curtis Esq., of Washington, commenc-
ing to-day, but will probably be continued
to-morrow, and may be occupy even more time.
Notwithstanding the prejudice which prevails
so generally against plural marriage we have had
offers from different sources of help in making
unanswerable arguments on the question of right
to practice it, and men have sought out divers
ways by which to substantiate the doctrine and
make the ground legal, as well as moral.  Each 
one thinks his method worth money, and for a 
consideration is willing to experiment believing
he can make the case clear, either before the bar
or through the publication of books on the sub-


ject. Some influential men here, profess to be
afraid of the practice of plural marriage spreading
through the United States, but when among people
who believe it to be a divine command, few of them
will accept it practically, though opportunities are
open to them, it does seem ridiculous to think that 
people outside the Church will be influenced in
favor of the system. No indeed[-] the world are
not good enough; it requires too much sacrifice
of self. It is the fashion and custom of the day
to betray women and cast them aside, to abandon
one's own offspring if illegitimately born, and this
does not bring any burden of support or responsi-
bility upon the man, consequently there is no
need of marriage. Instances of this kind are
about as thick as dandelions in Spring time, and
the facts are undeniable for "figures do not lie."
	In talking with an intelligent bright woman a
few days since upon the matter, she expressed
herself as believing that disreputable houses were
a necessity and when we indignantly protested
she modified it by saying perhaps not for married
men, there was no excuse for them, but for young
men and bachelors. What a terrible reflection
upon the nature of men. One would suppose
virtue to be unknown by those bearing the
honored title of the "lords of creation." Is it not
time that woman as a rational being aroused her-
self to the imperative duties of the age and by
every exertion possible maintain the rights of
women as a class to self-protection? Is it not a
matter of supreme importance that girls be taught
that the majority of the men who walk the earth
as the "protectors of the weaker sex," are in
reality the betrayers of virtue and seducers of in-
nocence? Is there not work enough for women to
do among their sisters in the world without reach-
ing away over to Utah to hunt out a few plural
wives, who have homes and children around them
honorably born in the new and everlasting cove-
nant, which covenant the world no more understand
than though it were an unknown tongue! We
have been told that there are women here in
Washington petitioning for money to found a
home or a sort of asylum for the women and
children who will be left desolate through the en-
forcement of the Edmunds Law. They may as well
understand at once that no Latter-day Saint
woman will accept the situation. Congress may
legislate to make the honored wife an outcast, but
she will be spared all such humiliation as entering
one of those homes; her sorrow will make her
sacred, and the Church of which she is a member
will see that no advantage is taken of the un-
happy situation to add insult to injury or pierce
the cruel wounds more deeply. "Mormons" are
not asking for charity, they are petitioning only
for the rights that every free born man and woman
entitled to under this free government.
	Good Friday with its ceremonials and observ-
ances has come and gone and Easter Sunday
with its church decorations and elaborate display
also. It was my intention to give a description of
these as they were solemnized in the churches here,
but it would make this article too long to add
more, and so that, with many other interesting
items, must be deferred for the present.
	Washington D. C., April 26th.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 

	The President, Bishop H. B. Glawson, and the
ladies comprising the Board of Directors and Exe-
cutive Committee of the Deseret Hospital, at a
meeting held in the Hospital parlor, April 12th,
1886, unanimously agreed to publish in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT the following expressions of
their feelings on the demise of their beloved sister
and co-worker, Mrs. Marinda N. Hyde.
	We deeply regret her absence from her usual
chair in committee assembled.  Her ever calm,
cheerful and dignified presence always gave us
assurance of counsel and assistance in our often


arduous duties in the establishment. Her health
had long been failing, but through her firm con-
viction that duty was imperative, and by the aid
of her brave spirit, Sister Hyde was ever found
duly at her post, ready, as far as in her lay, to ful-
fil the important duties of her position. Her kind
heart was ever in sympathy with the sick and
afflicted, and the poor and the needy were her
especial care. In meeting with us, she was un-
pretentious, kind and considerate of the feelings
of her co-workers, and laying out all her ability to
secure love, peace and unity through all the asso-
ciations with which she was connected. Her
life has been one of much trial, but she came
from the furnace as gold purified and refined, and
always retained the cheerful happy spirit of youth,
even to her closing days. We shed the natural
tears of love over her sweet memory, but we know
she has attained a fulness of glory, the rich re-
ward of a Latter-day Saint, and we realize that if
faithful we shall again be re-united with her in
the mansions of unfading bliss.
	Longfellow puts a volume in a sentence, when
he says,

	"There is no death! what seems so is transition,
	This life of mortal breath is but a suburb of the life
		 Elysian,
	Whose portal we call death."

	Sister Hyde will retain a share in the memories
of all with whom she has in any way ever been
associated.
					   E. HOWARD, Ass’t Sec.


[Column 1]
	OUR CHILDREN.

	How many mothers in Zion ever visit the meet-
ings held by the Primary Association? Quitea large
number of the mothers in our ward visit our
Primary once a year; that is when the anniversary
of the organization of the association is celebrated,
and the children and officers get up an entertain-
ment. One of those entertainments was given
last week, and was in every sense of the word a
complete success. Certainly every parent who
attended the children’s entertainment, held in the
afternoon, or the "sociable" in the evening, which
was a continuation of the former, given by the
young ladies to the older members of the ward,
must have felt gratified. But perhaps few realize
how much work must be done by those engaged
in such matters, to bring about such grand success,
or how much good might be done by the parents
visiting the children’s meetings occasionally, and
giving such suggestions and encouragement as
they may have to offer.
	Every father and every mother ought to have
some good and suitable thoughts, the presenting
of which would be a help to any teacher, either in
our Primaries, Sabbath Schools or day schools.
All these institutions are, or should be, great helps
to parents in training their little ones; and should
not each parent feel a profound interest in the
way in which they are conducted, and an anxiety
to aid in their support and constant improvement?
Yes, indeed! and the best way to find out exactly
what and how the children are taught, as well as
to learn what is needed, and whether one can be
of any assistance to those who labor for the salva-
tion of the youth in Zion, is to make frequent
visits to the meetings and schools which are
carried on for the benefit of the young.
	Some parents may have difficulty at times in
persuading their children that Sunday School and
Primary meetings are good places to go to. They
will find that accompanying the little ones them-
selves occasionally will do more to make them like
their meetings and schools than all the arguments
they can offer. “If it is good to go there, why
don't papa and mamma go sometimes,” must be a
natural question in the mind of a child, whether it
is so expressed or not. 
	Almost every parent can find time and oppor-
 
[Column 2]
tunity to visit their own and their neighbor’s child-
ren in their schools and meetings once in a while,
and such chances should never be ignored. “Mu-
tual improvement” is the result of the Primary
meetings quite as much as of those held by our
young gentlemen and ladies, and no true man or
woman will visit our children’s meetings without
feeling refreshed and benefited.
	One more hint. Never scold a child for feeling
disinclined to go to school or meeting. If gentle
persuasion will not render the duty an agreeable
one, harsh words or means will only make it
doubly disagreeable. This afternoon a little six
year old boy was called in from play to get ready
for Primary. He said he did not want to go, he
was tired; did not want his face washed nor his
hair brushed. These smaller difficulties, however,
were soon overcome, and he was made ready, but
still did not want to go. His mother proposed to
go with him, which rendered matters somewhat
better, but still he preferred not to go, and said
he felt sick. The mother took him and his brother
into a room by themselves and knelt down with
them to pray, telling them to repeat the words
after her. A short, appropriate prayer was offered
up, and then the little fellow was told to go and
lie down on his bed while his mother should get
ready for meeting, and that if he then wished to
stay at home he might do so. Before the mother
had quite finished her preparations, the boy got
up and put on his cap, ready and willing to ac-
company her and his brother to meeting. The
first hymn had been sung, and prayer was being
offered when they reached the schoolhouse; this
fact caused the mother to reflect that in the future
preparations for Primary must be commenced a
little earlier, to make time for unlooked for hin-
drances, which are always liable to occur. She
had gained a point with her son, however, for
which she felt thankful.
							LULA.
	April 29th, 1886.


PUBLIC QUESTIONS WHICH CANNOT
		BE SUPPRESSED.

	Rev. James Freeman Clarke, in a sermon pub-
lished in the last issue of that excellent paper, 
the Saturday Evening Gazette, speaks of woman
suffrage as follows: 
	Another question which cannot be suppressed
is woman suffrage. On the principles of aristo-
cratic or oligarchal government of a few, then
there may be reasons for confining suffrage to
men. If we believe in the government of the
people, by the people, and for the people, no such
reason can be found. Women are a part of the
people no less than men. The interests of all 
women, including wives and mothers, possessing
property, and needing more protection than men
need, ought to be represented by themselves in
the legislation and administration of the country. 
Think of Boston, with not a woman on the school
committee,* while a majority of the teachers are 
women, and more than half the children are girls. 
Think of the hospitals and asylums and the
homes for the destitute where no woman has a
place or a voice. And yet you tell us that the 
office of the woman is to make a happy home, to
bring up children, to take care of the sick and
suffering! What mockery to say this, and then to
shut her out of the places where she is most need-
ed! In most of the hospitals of Boston the
trustees and directors are exclusively men. The
Board of Directors for the Public Institutions
consists of nine men, without one woman. They
have charge of the houses industry and refor-
mation, the alms-houses for men and women, the 
homes for neglected boys and girls. They may 
do perfectly well all that men can do, but men do
not understand much about the details which
make the home comfortable, the nursing of the 
sick, the treatment of children. The overseers


or through the publication of books on the subject
of the Poor consist of twelve men and no women.
Among the poor are women and children, and it
would seem only reasonable that women should
be on this board also. The City Hospital is un-
der the charge of seven trustees, all men. Such
is the case now with our public city charities;
they are all in the hands of men. The State
charities are managed,—women are put on some
of the boards. But even private charities are
governed largely by men. Take, for example, the
Perkins Institution for the Blind, which includes
as inmates men and women; it is governed by
twelve trustees, all men. The Boston Provident
Association is directed by fifteen managers, all
men. The Children's Hospital, where one would
think that the experience of women would be es-
pecially valuable, has twelve managers, without
one woman among them. And the Boston Lying-
in Hospital has ten trustees, six physicians, and
four other officers, all men. Such a state of things
is only possible where, in consequence of woman's
being excluded from the ballot, it is unconsciously
assumed that she is not fit to be on any board of
government. This absurd state of things has 
come unconsciously, not intentionally; it is a
habit not a conviction. Give woman the habit
and you will find her soon placed wherever she
can be useful.
	By the exclusion of women from the ballot, one-
half of the citizens of the country are excused
from taking their part in public duties; they are
taught not to think about public affairs, educated
to take no interest in their country's fortunes,
to exercise no open womanly influence in refining
public morals and softening public manners. We
practically say to them, "We do not want your
aid; we can do better without you." And they
take us at our word. Then their indifference to
public affairs, and to the interests of the nation,
make those who associate with them less inter-
ested. Whatever powers God has given them are
excluded from their noble field of duty. Their
consciences are taught to remain torpid; their
hearts cold in regard to great national questions
and public responsibilities. And then, when we
have taught them to be indifferent, we use this
indifference as an argument, and say, "Oh, women
do not wish to vote. When they wish for the
ballot, they shall receive it." Who does wish to
vote? Not you, not I—we vote because it is our
duty. Shall men and women escape their re-
sponsibilities by saying, "We do not wish to meet 
them?" You say, "if the ballot could be given
only to intelligent women, we should willingly
accept woman suffrage." But is not knowledge
power? When you open the same opportunity to
knowledge and to ignorance, will not knowledge 
get the best of it! "Yes," you reply, "if
measured by weight; but not by number. In
voting, the ignorant woman will be equal to the
wisest." So the vote of an ignorant man will
balance that of the greatest statesman. But for
all that, we carry questions by argument,
by persuasion, by the force of facts, by
the power of truth. An ignorant majority is the
raw material out of which a wise majority is soon-
er or later to be manufactured. By adding women
voters to men, you double the number of voters,
and thus you diminish by one-half the chances of
bribery, and of those political tricks which take
time and money to accomplish. You introduce
into politics and public work the womanly power
which Christian civilization has brought into
families, neighborhoods, society, education, litera-
ture, art and religion. Wherever this womanly
element works with the manly element, good
comes. Wherever man works by himself apart
from woman, he loses a good influence. This
question cannot be suppressed; it is sure to rise
above all opposition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	ARMENIAN SKETCHES.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The EXPONENT continues to appear regular-
ly, and, if I am not mistaken, is read from and
translated unto some women and daughters of
the Armenian people. Bro. Tanner and my-
self also acknowledge the receipt of the EXPON-
ENT for ourselves, and as we are afraid it might
be taken as an insult if we should send the
money for our copy, we thought of showing
our thankfulness in some other way. When
he and Bro. Lyman left for Greece, Egypt
and Palestine, three weeks ago, he said that 
the EXPONENT thould be remembered by him.
	He has forwarded to one of the sisters a 
book, which treats in an able way about this
city and the inhabitants thereof. In a long
chapter the author says a good many things
about Turkish women, so that nothing re-
mains for me to add. Most of what he says is
correct; where he exaggerates to please fancy,
the sisters will easily detect the mistakes, es-
pecially, also, in those places where the writer
comments on principles which he does not
thoroughly understand. Knowing this book
now within easy reach of the EXPONENT, it 
would be uselesss to write any more about the 
women of the Mohammedan faith.
	The author says, speaking of the Armenians,
that he had no chance of entering the house 
of an Armenian. I was more favored, and
have been in several Armenian homes. Their
cleanliness and neatness give a very favorable 
impression to the visitor. When a stranger
enters the house, the ladies therein do not
have to retire, as the Turkish are requested to
do. They do not talk much, but watch with
open eyes and ears. The religion and people
of the Latter-day Saints are misrepresented
also to them, and for this reason an Elder may
at times hear some straight questions. When
one of these aged mothers sits down on the
divan, takes her old folio Bible upon her lap,
and with the readiness of a scribe, finds points
to argue on or to ask about, and then fixes her
eyes full upon the man who professes to bring
some great good news, the thus interviewed
begins to understand the irony with which
Armenian newspapers make fun of western
people because they don't know whether Arme-
nians are Christians or not. Yes, they are
Christains, and I can say that great faith in
the Lord is found among them, faith that has 
been answered by remarkable healings.
	The Armenians dissented from the Catholic
Church at the time of the "Nestorian" and
"Monophys" quarrels, and since then have
remained a Christian community of their own.
As far as I can judge, these old Armenians 
were a good deal nearer the truth than their
opponents. It was (according to the French
writer, Eugene Boré,), in the year 596, that
the Patriarch Abraham gathered the ten
archbishops of Armenia at Tauris, then the
capital of the kingdom, and there they pro-
nounced an anathema against the fourth synod
of Chaladon and Pope Leon. No wonder that
the Catholics never liked the Armenians much,
and that in the seventeenth century the print-
ing office of the learned Armenian Matthew
Vanatetzi in Marseille was destroyed at the
instigation of the Jesuits, and that Louis XIV
denied protection to the Armenians in France,
notwithstanding the famous letter in which
the Archbishop Daniel at Tulfa, near Teheran,
pleaded for his countrymen. They were com-
pelled to remove their office and labors to Am-
sterdam, in Holland. Stupendous were the 
works of the great and learned Arem[-]nian Mek-
hitar (died 1749) and his disciples and fol-
lowers, the Mekhitarites; and the study of Ar-
menian history, geography, language and litera-
ture is a continual source of surprise and as-
tonishment.
	The Armenians not unfrequently smile at

[Column 2]
the ignorance of western Christians concerning
the old country of the Lusignans and the pos-
terity of Haik, who is said to have gone with
his family from the tower of Babel and peo-
pled High—Armenis. It was the Armenian
King, Abgar, who sent a letter unto Jesus, in-
viting Him to come to his land; "I heard say
that the Jews are persecuting and seeking to 
destroy Thee. I have a small, charming town
large enough for both of us, where we could
live in peace." The Apostle Thomas sent
afterwards Thaddeus, one of the Seventies, to
convert Armenia, and soon the Apostle Bar-
tholemew followed; but the population re-
mained indifferent to a "Semitic civilization;"
only the inhabitants of Edessa were baptized
to "please the king and gain his favors." The
general conversion of the Armenians took
place in the time of the Roman empire Diocle-
tian and the Armenian king Tiridate, through
the labors of Gregory Luzavoritch (the Illumi-
nator) the patient sufferer of thirteen year's
imprisonment in the subterranean dungeon, and
not until after the fearful terrors which the
two "Armenian Saintesses," Rhipsimae and
Gayanae, had to endure for their fidelity to
principle. The following is a short summary
taken from a French orientalist: "Diocletian,
who lived at the time of King Tiridate, fell
desperately in love with a Christian girl--
Rhipsimae, who lived in Rome with other
virgins under the direction of their superior,
named Gayanae. In order to escape the pas-
sion of the Emperor, Rhipsimae left for Ar-
menia with her companions. There they
lived in the province Ararat at Nagbarshabad,
sustained by the work of one of the girls who
understood the manufacture of glass. Diocle-
tian sent all over his empire and tributary lands
to find the escaped Rhipsimae. When the
men of Tiridate had found her, the latter
wanted her for himself. She refused the hea-
then king. Gayanae was brought, a rope 
around her neck, to speak in favor of Tiridate.
In the Latin language she exhorted Rhipsimae
to persist in her resolution, notwithstanding
that the guards maltreated both of them. The
strong-minded Christian girl had first her
tongue cut out, then her eyes plucked out, then
was tied to four posts, burnt with torches and
finally beaten to death with stones. Gayanae
and the others were also put to death under
similar sufferings. Soon after this the king
took sick, lost his reason, and the whole royal
family was sunk into deep affliction. However,
by the manifestations of dreams and great
visions, Gregory Luzavoritch was again
brought to remembrance. They took him
from the dungeon; he healed the king (by
means of a plant) and, so it is reported by
the Armenian historian Agathange, 190,000
were christianized the same day with the
king’s family. Tiridate died 314.[-]
	The Armenian people and their priests, in 
later trials, proved their faith at sundry times.
During the government of the east Roman
emperor Arcadius the land of Armenia was
divided between him and Persia. Khosrow
was the last of the Arsacedes, the old royal
family of the Armenians, and after his death
Armenia was governed by Marzbans, Persian
officers. In 439 Iesdedyerd II ascended the
Persian throne. He endeavored to stop the
progress of the Christian faith in Armenia,and
to substitute the religion of the Mages. Some
of the Armenian satrapies thought it wise to
obey the Persian king; but the bulk of the
people and the priests resisted. Iesdedyerd,
instigated by the Mages, sent a great army to 
enforce the denial of the Christian faith. The
archbishops, under the presidency of Patriarch
Joseph, returned a reply full of submission to
the tyrant, but at the same time declaring that
they would sooner perish than abandon their
religion. They were at once summoned before
the king and imprisoned. The Armenians


[Column 1]
waged a terrible war against the Persian armies
and although the terrific battle of Avaraia
was lost and the brave leader, Vartan, fell
(2nd of June, 451) the Christians with un-
broken courage continued the resistance in
their towering mountains. In these gloomy
times the Huns appeared on the Persian boun-
daries in countless numbers, defeated the
soldiers, and in these misfortunes the Mages
declared they saw the anger of the Persian
God because the Christian bishops were yet
alive. Isededyerd was urged to execute the im-
prisoned Joseph and his brethren. They were 
tortured, and as none of them would flinch, 
brought to death in a horrible way. The re-
ligious war went on in mad fury, and after the
death of Isededyerd and his successor, Berose,
who fell in a combat against the Huns, Arme-
nia had peace once more in its blood drenched,
grandious mountain-island.
	In the time of the rise of Islamism and the
invasion of the Arabs, unhappy Armenia
looked upon ghastly scenes. One of her histo-
rians writes: "Under the government of
Abd-el-Melik, son of Meroan, our seigniors and
princes, the nobles and all of the Satrap race,
enveloped in a complete destruction, were ex-
terminated in streams of blood." (Mark this
Armenian style.) It is too long to give the
translation of these shocking events. It may
be sufficient to say that in some places whole
churches full of Armenians, who would not
deny, were burnt to death, but they died sing-
ing songs of praise, and the parents forgot
their own tortures in seeing the fire falling up-
on their children. Subsequently made equal
by the same fate, they all perished unto the
last, when at the same time and at different
places, often a handful of brave Armenians
defeated great numbers of their enemies. 
Christianity remained, although sometimes 
almost choked in blood by all the adversaries
round about. 
	It would be of high interest to cast a glance
upon the Armenian literature. Wonderful 
works are found therein, down from Moses of
Khorene and Elisee in the "golden era," fourth
and fifth century, until the renaissance period
of Little Armenia and the learned men of re-
cent date. "The written monuments of the
Armenians," says a French author, "are not 
behind the master pieces of Greece and
Rome." 
	On the 24th of May, 1860, the 200,000 Ar-
menians of Constantinople adopted for them-
selves a Constitution, and this was sanctioned
by the Sublime Porte, the 17th of March 1863. 
Since that time the the public instruction has
made rapid progress; Armenian schools have 
been opened through almost the whole Turkish
empire, and a vigorous and well conducted
journalism throws an increasing flood of light
over this highly intelligent nation. Many of
the richer classes have their children educated 
in Germany, France or England, others have
teachers at home for music and languages. 
The Armenian missionaries have also opened
schools. Within the last thirty years some
Armenians have left their old church and be-
come Catholics or Protestants. Quite a good
number of Quakers are also to be found, and
these are under very able guidance, and still
show the spirit of their noble founders—
George Fox and William Penn. 
	The bodily strength of the Armenians ham-
als (the porters of Constantinople) is pro-
verbial, as is also their general honesty. The
ability of the young Armenians to learn
foreign languages is astonishing, and, as a mat-
ter of course, everything which is desirable to
be learned. To-day, many men of high rank
in Turkey are Armenians, and Loris Melikoff,
the noted Russian general, is of the same na-
tionality. 
	But another thing is a fruit of the nine-
teenth century. What never was reached by 

[Column 2]
the swords of the Persians, Mongols, Greeks,
Arabs, Mamelukes and Seldchoukians—the
overthrow of the old Armenian faith—seems
going to be accomplished by the French litera-
ture of infidelity and skepticism. Many don't 
believe anything more; others see the defects
of so called Christianity, and have lost confi-
dence in every denomination. But then there
are some who are too well gifted and too
much learned not to know that the Father of 
the universe will, sometimes, and just in time, 
provide for His wanting children, when the old 
forms are giving way. 
	The Lord has already established the founda-
tion of His final kingdom on earth as a stand-
ard for every kindred, tongue and people. 
	There is a voice from the hill of Cumorah, a
voice hidden in the time of the Armenian 
"golden era." There is a voice from a dying
Prophet out of a bloodstained jail in Illinois; 
there is a voice from a whole people trodden 
down, yet always growing during the past
fifty-six years; there is a voice from prisoners
bowed down by white haired age and venerated
for their integrity; and hark, a voice from ill
treated mothers, women and sisters of an un-
justly persecuted people in yonder mountains, 
and the while their fathers, husbands and 
brothers are incarcerated for their most holy
faith, these modern Deborahs carry on, in set-
tled confidence, the work of human enfranchise-
ment, not only laboring for themselves, but
toiling for the benefit of Adam's whole family. 
"The rights of the women of every nation" is
no empty word, but it can never be realized
save upon the principles of true religion. The
greatest German writer said: "Wilt thou ex-
actly learn what is becoming, simply inquire of
noble-minded women." But then, woe unto
apostate Christianity and its train of evil conse-
quences, for behold, the noblest mothers in
this century are rising indignantly to judge it,
are living and suffering to advocate and propa-
gate another religion, the religion of true
liberty and real peace, the religion of the
coming millenium, the long lost, long sought
for, and at last restored religion of truth, the
everlasting Gospel of God and His Christ. 
	May the Lord bless His people and en-
lighten every honest soul throughout this whole
planet, is the the prayer of
			Your brother, 
							J. S. P.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
    R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			NEPHI.
	The quarterly conference of Juab Stake Re-
lief Society convened in the Nephi Tabernacle
at 10 a.m., April 9th, 1886, Prest. Mary
Pitchforth presiding. The branches were re-
ported by their Presidents in a favorable and
commendable manner; the members were alive
to their duties, and striving to prove them-
selves loyal to the principles of truth.
   Prest. Mary Pitchforth, Prest. Marinda By-
ran, Coun. Amy Bigler and others offered in-
teresting and spirited remarks, filled with ad-
vice and counsel to the sisters, to live their
religion, keep a strict watchcare over their
children, and to educate them and prepare
them for usefulness in the kingdom of God.
   Coun. Charles Sperry, Bishop David Udall
and several other brethren were present, and
took part in praising God for the many bless-
ings He has bestowed upon us as a people, and
counseling and encouraging the sisters in their
good work of providing for the needy and
comforting those in distress. The speeches
were interspersed with songs and recitations,
making in all a very pleasant and interesting
time. After singing and benediction, the
conference adjourned for three months.
   Owing to a visit from the diphtheria fiend

[Column 2]
in  the month of March, our meetings  and
schools were suspended for few weeks; our
conference was also postponed until the present
date.
				M. E. BUCKHOLT, Sec.

		   LOGAN FIFTH WARD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As it is seldom anything appears in your
valuable paper from this part of the Lord's
vineyard, I hope you will accept a few lines.
	We have a branch of the Primary Associa-
tion here, and it has been growing for five
years, under the kind and faithful nursing and
care of Sister Priscilla Jacobs and her Coun-
selors, and it has become a source of much 
comfort and delight to all who behold it.  Es-
pecially was that the case last Saturday, when
its annual conference was held in the school-
house as an anniversary.  Present on the stand
were Sister J. Molen, President of the Pri-
mary of this Stake and her Counselors, Bishop
Hyde and his Counselors, Sisters Margaret
Young, Nancy Clark and others, also many
parents, who had assembled with the children
to listen to the exercises; these consisted of
songs, dialogues, essays, recitations, and select
readings, interspersed with short speeches from
the brethren and sisters.  Much excellent
counsel and valuable instruction was given.
The spirit and power of God was poured out
upon the speakers to such an extent that the
gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof
was enjoyed by some of the sisters.  At the
close of the forenoon meeting, a sumptuous
dinner was partaken of in another room by
old and young, and all seemed to enjoy the
physical as well as the spiritual food. 
	In the afternoon another short but spirited
meeting was held; then the conference closed.
The whole day was one continued feasting on
the good things of heaven and of earth, and,
 no doubt, will have good results, for it will
long be remembered by those who were pres-
ent.
			  METTINE OLSEN, Secretary.

		      MARICOPA STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Since the last report there has been a re-
organization of the Relief Society of Mesa, of
which Mrs. Mabel Ann Hakes is now Presi-
dent; Mrs. Adelaide Allen and Ann Sirrine,
Counselors; Agnes McDonald, Secretary; Bar-
bara Lang, Treasurer; Sarah M. Pomeroy,
Stake Secretary.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Maricopa Stake was held March 27th,
 at 1 p.m., at the Relief Society Hall of Mesa
City, Stake President E. G. McDonald presid-
ing.  Reports were given of the Mesa, Lehi,
Alma and Tempe Societies.  They were very
encouraging, and served to show there was an
increase of faith and good works among the
members, and a great zeal in attending their
meetings.
	Sister Susan Savage reported that the Papa-
go Ward had no organized Society, but the
native sisters were very anxious to learn the
ways of civilized life, and were very much in-
terested in their studies, and they, especially
the younger ones, were improving rapidly.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt truly thankful
that she had so far been preserved as to be able
to meet with the sisters in conference, but still
felt very weak.  She desired to live to do good,
and prayed that we might have the Spirit of
the Lord to direct us through our conference.
	Coun. Morris made some encouraging re-
marks, and desired to live the life of a Saint,
after which a number of brethren were called
upon.  Bishop Oscar Stuart, in his remarks,
said the nearer we try to live to God, the more
opposition we shall experience from the evil


one. We should expect trials, for they are
necessary to keep us in the right track.
	Bro. James Allen showed in a forcible man-
mer the necessity of each one living up to his
duties and privileges, that we may have a good
record to show on earth and in heaven.
	Bro. C. Hakes said he had been reflecting
upon the circumstances that surrounded us as
a people, and thought the principle of religious
liberty was being pretty well tested. Our
brethren were being imprisoned or driven into
exile for their religious belief, contrary to the
Constitution, and the government is violating
its principles in regard to our people. The
Lord has spoken and revealed His will to us,
and we are called upon to obey it. We should
watch ourselves and pray for strength to resist
every evil influence.
	Bro. Henry Rogers had felt pride in listen-
ing to the remarks and testimonies of the
brethren and sisters. He had been reflecting
concerning the “down-trodden women of Utah.”
Read the account of the Ladies' Mass Meeting
in Salt Lake; hear their soul-stirring appeals,
their noble patriotism, their bold defense of
right, does this look like oppression? He felt
it a blessed thing to be a Latter-day Saint. The
wheat and tares should grow together until the
harvest. We were right where the Lord
wanted us to be—where we could have an op-
portunity of doing good to the natives. The
speaker asked God's blessing upon those who
were laboring so faithfully amongst them.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt that we had re-
ceived some excellent teaching, and hoped we
would profit by it. Let us not judge each
other harshly, but let us examine our own
hearts and see if they are right, and strive to
overcome our weaknesses. Let those who are
called to be teachers, go forth in the spirit of
their calling, that they may be a blessing and
benefit to those they are called to visit. Sisters,
let us never speak against the principle of ce-
lestial marriage. Let us sustain every true
principle that is consonant with our holy re-
ligion.
	Her discourse was replete with good coun-
sel and encouragement to those who listened
to her. Our hearts were filled with thankful-
ness, that we once more had our beloved Presi-
dent with us, who had so recently recovered
from a severe illness, from which, at one time,
there was but little prospect of her recovery,
but through faith and prayer and good nurs-
ing, she was again with us, and we appreciated
the blessing.
	Conference adjourned for three months by
singing, “Lord dismiss us,” etc. Prayer by C.
Hakes.
			SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	White Cake.—The whites of three eggs, one cup of
white sugar, a half a cup of butter, a half cup of sweet
milk, two teaspoons of baking powder.

	Pearl Cake—Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar,
one cup of butter, one cup of milk, whites of five eggs,
baking powder, flavor with bitter almonds.

	Don't flirt dirt from one price of furniture to another
and call it dusting, but take it up carefully in a dusting-
cloth and shake it from the window.

	To Clean Bottles.—Put into the bottle some kernels of
corn, a tablespoonful of ashes, pour it half full of water,
and after a vigorous shaking and rincing you will find the
bottle as good as new.

	For a harness blacking, use bone-black, four ounces;
linseed-oil, two ounces; sulphuric acid, half an ounce;
treacle, two ounces; gum-arabic, one ounce; vinegar, one
pint.

	To Clean Cashmere.—Take three large spoonfuls of beef
gall to a pailful of water, put in the cloth and wash, then
put it in warm water to rinse. Take out without wringing.
Let it drain, and fold it down to iron before it dries.

	Decay of the teeth has three chief causes: weakness of
constitution, indigestion, and lack of cleanliness; so keep


your teeth in good order, be careful of your diet, and brush
your teeth with a little borax and water night and morning.
Also have the decayed teeth filled or extracted, as they
are a source of injury to the others.

	To make tea to perfection, boiling water must be poured
on the leaves directly it boils. Water which has been
boiling more than five minutes, or which has previously
boiled, should on no account be used. If the water does
not boil, or if it be allowed to overboil, the leaves of the
tea will be only half opened, and the tea itself will be quite
spoiled. The water should be allowed to remain on the
leaves from ten to fifteen minutes.

	Snow Pudding.—Pour one pint of cold water on a half
box of "Coe's" gelatine, set this into boiling water until
dissolved. Add to this two cups of sugar, and the juice of
two lemoms. When nearly cold add the whites of two
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, heat all together until very
light, or thick. Put into a glass dish, make a soft custard
of the yokes of the eggs, one pint of milk and two table-
spoons of sugar. Set to cool, and just before serving pour
the custard over the snow or around it.


[Column 1]
	CURE FOR DIPHTHERIA.

	Dr. Delthil, a French physician, has discovered that the
vapors of liquid tar and turpentine dissolve the fibrinous
exudations which choke up the throat in croup and diph-
theria. He pours equal parts of turpentine and liquid tar,
say two tablespoonfuls of each, into a tin pan or cup and
sets fire to the mixture. A dense resinous smoke arises
which obscures the air of the room. "The patient," says
Dr. Delthil, "immediately seems to experience relief; the
choking and rattling stop, the patient falls into a slumber
and seems to inhale the smoke with pleasure. The fibrin-
ous membrane soon becomes detached, microbes are
coughed up; these when caught in a glass may be seen to
dissolve in the smoke. In the course of three days after-
ward the patient entirely recovers." 
	It is claimed that the experiment has been successfully
tried in this country, and certainly it is so simple and
harmless as to recommend itself for trial. Even if it failed 
to do good, it could assuredly be productive of nor harm.

Class in Obstetrics. 
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a Class in Obstetrics on
	May 3d, 1886, at 2 p.m., at her
	Office, No. 16 Main Street. 
TUITION, per term, - - - $10.00.
	Dr. Shipp's office hours are from 10 a. m., to 5 p. m. 
Her residence is 34 Seventh East Street. 
	The doctor has given special study to Obstetrics and
Women's Diseases.

F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 
			
For Sale at this Office. 
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW. 
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, - 25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, $1.00			"
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 1.50		"

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing finger icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing finger icon] Address. DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age! 
5,000 Now in Use in Utah
[text on left side of image] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple! 
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
[text on right side of image] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Maching. It has been
in the Market 23 Years
[text below image] Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building, 
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 
			
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1865. 
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west. 
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and production
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
Vol. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1886.	No. 24


ONLY A VOICE.

Why is it, when I hear that voice.
	A spell seems weaved around mine ear;
That bids my heart and soul rejoice
	As if some happiness were near?
 
Strange magic in its mystic sound,
	But reason cannot tell me why!—
Silence is breathing all around,
	And heaves my heart th'unwonted sigh;—

Strange Being is this human life,
	And strange the mystic threads that weave
Around our heart with beauty rife,
	And all its sombreness relieve.

Oh! are not these some little part
	Of that bright atmosphere above?
Concocted by a God-like art,
	And purified by God-like love?

And did we not a portion bring
	Of this bright essence from on high,
When we agreed aside to fling
	Our glorions home and lay it by?

And mated to a mortal frame
	To bear—to suffer—and to die,
That we might greater glory gain,
	Eternal as the heavens are high!

I ween, our Father's love bestowed
	These whisperings of a brighter Home,
To lighten something of the load
	Which pilgrims bear as here they roam.

Oh! whisperings sweet as breath of spring,
	Oh! mystic spells that wrap me round!
THOU GREAT UNKNOWN! my heart I bring,
	That doth with gratitude abound.

And offer it in faith to Thee,
	And bless Thee for the music there
Whose chords respond in unity
	With Nature's Voices that I hear.

Sweet Voice, I thank thee for the train
	Of thought—which here I've tried to trace;
Thou'st floated brightly through my brain,
	To joy and beauty giving place.

Speak on! and let me hear thy tones—
	Ring out! and let me hear the sound;
It breathes the sweets of Hearts and Homes,
	And Memory's Spells it flings around.
					HANNAH T. KING. 
Salt Lake City, April, 1886.


[Column 1]
		STIRRING SENTIMENTS. 

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT: 
	We congratulate you on the success you 
met in having an interview with President
Cleveland, and hope the result will be favor-
able. We were pleased to read the Memorial
of the Women of Utah, and heartily endorse
the Resolutions contained therein! 
	This Memorial is not without effect, which is
plainly seen by the removal of Governor
Murray, Marshal Ireland, Judge Powers and 
others, the last named of these notable officials
being the judge that passed sentence upon
Apostle Lorenzo Snow without one iota of le-
gal evidence by which he could be convicted 
of a fine, much less eighteen months im-
prisonment. Governor Murray and Marshal
Ireland ordered a posse of soldiers to guard
President Cannon when he was under arrest. 
This illegal act is before the eyes of all na-
tions. Where are those notables to-day? 
They are removed and we are glad of it, even
if they replace them by those who are more

[Column 2]
hostile to the Mormons than their predecessors,
from the fact that the more unjust and illegal
their proceedings the sooner their career will
be ended. 
	We have just read the death knell of Sena-
tor Edmunds. He has killed himself trying to
disfranchise the women and pass a bill to
confiscate the Church property of the Mor-
mon. The ladies charge Senator Edmunds
with aspiring to the Presidental chair; if this
is true, he certainly has no conception of the
influence of women even without the ballot; 
they are a power in the land, and the name of 
Senator Edmunds will become a hiss and a by
word among all nations. It is already being
said that he descended from the Nimrods of
Massachusetts that framed laws to burn poor
old helpless women that had no friends. 
Quakers were burned for their religion. 
	We would like to see the speech of Patrick
Henry published in the EXPONENT to awaken
an interest in the youth, that they may more
fully realize the cost of liberty, and impress on
them the spirit of patriotism. In solving all
great problems pertaining to the progress and
elevation of nations it requires a mighty
struggle, and calls for valiant hearted men
who are not afraid to die. Would such cruel-
ties and grievous wrongs be perpetrated in
England, as deputy marshals breaking into
people's houses, pulling the bed clothes off re-
spectable women in the night? No, the Elders
have been protected from such outrages. 
Does the blood of the martyred Saints cry
from that land, "How long, O Lord, holy and
true and righteous God, dost thou not judge
and avenge our blood upon them that dwell
upon the earth?" How is it, in this boasted
land of liberty, the dear old flag is stained
with the blood of martyrs? The escutcheon of
our once free and happy country is desecrated. 
"Hear, O ye heavens, give ear O earth, let
angels bear record of the pleading prayers
of the exiled Saints and the petitions of the
servants of the living God are ascending from
the prison walls to the throne of God. The
Constitution that was given by the inspira-
tion of His Almighty power, guarantees to all
of her subjects the right to worship Him ac-
cording to the dictates of their own consciences. 
This is not all; there are thousands of women
to-day petitioning to the Chief Executive of
the nation to redress them of the wrongs in-
flicted upon them by that infamous bill known
as the Edmunds Law; but thank God there
are such men as Brown, Teller and others, who
have had the moral courage to speak in defence
of the oppressed; may they be promoted and
their names live in honorable remembrance in
the hearts of every true lover of liberty.
							W. EAST.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S RIGHT TO THE BALLOT. 

	It is only a question of time when the right
of woman to vote will be admitted in all civil-
ized communities, where the franchise is exer-
cised at all. Arguments as to the wisdom of
giving to woman such a right may be multiplied
without end, but such objections—those of
policy—can be urged with equal force against
many classes of men who now have the privil-
ege of voting—but that it is just that woman
has a right to be allowed to vote cannot be
controverted, and I look upon it as only a
question of time when pig-headed men who

[Column 2]
pass for statesmen will have the fact that
woman is a responsible being, capable of exer-
cising equal judgment with men in these mat-
ters, beaten into their thick noddles. Not that
it is certain to produce the good results claimed
for it by those who most ardently advocate it
as a panacea for all existing political ends,
but as a matter of justice, pure and simple, 
independent of expedience or probable results. 
Politics is a species of lottery. One never
knows how measures or plans turn out, and in
voting for parties and for measures which are
debatable (and what measure is not) it is
simply a guess, and there is no percentage in
favor of intelligence or purity when the result
is purely suppositional. Politics is become so
hopelessly dirty a stream one is bound to be-
lieve womankind cannot purify it. All things, 
however, are but furtherances of God's great
plans, and whether women vote or not, whether
politics are pure or not, it is certain that great
problems are ever being worked out, and I 
have no reason to assume that intelligence or
even purity are greater factors than ignorance
and vice in their solution, especially as the ex-
istence of all conditions are essential to the
bringing about of the ever mastering and di-
vine purposes. There is no reason why woman
should not vote, and there is no assurance that
either her privilege to vote or that of man
will effect any material alteration in the course 
of events, guiding and directing which there
is an omniscient and alwise intelligence. 
	Even if there will be happy results from the
universal extention of the franchise, which I 
expect to live long enough to see an accom-
plished fact, women lose nothing in the effort
required to obtain that to which they are so
justly entitled. Nothing worth having is ever 
"lightly won," and the franchise will be valued,
like a good dress, at what it cost. Besides the
struggle develops and educates the woman, and
it fits her for the trust, admitting it to be such, 
when the right to vote is accorded. The most
lamentable thing in this connection is to see the
petty subterfuges to which men resort, and the
degrading ideas advanced, in the hope of stay-
ing a movement which grows only the stronger
from the opposition with which it is forced to 
contend. Some of the speeches made in Great 
Britain and recorded in the papers are so eg-
gregiously asinine that the more intelligent
opponents of woman's suffrage should have hid 
themselves in shame to think that their co-
laborers could be so superlatively silly. No
sort of argument could speak such volumes in
favor of the right of women to vote, as do
some of the idiotic effusions which are intended 
to oppose it. The British public moves slowly, 
but it is reasonably sure. It will be a little 
difficult to educate it up to the point of
womam's suffrage, but it can be educated and
will grant the right freely when the enlighten-
ing process has done its work. A number of
energetic women keep plodding away with a 
dogged persistency which gives the lie to the 
oft quoted passage, "Woman, thy name is
frailty," as effectually as it does to a sister ut-
terance which declares that "caprice" and
"woman" are interchangeable terms, and their
perseverance is being rewarded by the conver-
sion of able men to their views who are also
laboring in the same direction. 
	It is strange, but true, that the Irish are do-
ing a great deal for woman's suffrage in Great
Britain, but doing it unwittingly. The Home
Rule meal is leavening the whole lump of


British politics. It is liberalizing ideas fast,
and one of the advantages to women will be
that people will more readily grant justice to
women when the great principle that the right
to elect the government should be shared by
all the governed is accepted as the fundamental
basis on which to give justice. It is not sur-
prising that a country where they punish and
imprison people for attempting suicide (unless
the punishment is given as a penalty for failure)
should be tardy in acknowledging the equal
right of woman with man to vote;but that they
should be so niggardly and mean about it in
the “land of the free and the home of the
brave” (save us heaven!) is one of the evi-
dences that in America demagogues and politi-
cal hypochondriacs have taken the place of
statesmen, and that as a nation the United
States is struggling back into the last century.
The best thing that could possibly happen the
United States would be a number of prominent
funerals. As it is said the prayers of the
righteous availeth much, for heaven’s sake let
the righteous be pursuaded to plead with Provi-
dence to give us a chance to go into, a pro-
longed period of national mourning.
				WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISEASED MONEY.

	A writer in the Manufacturer and Builder
gives some very pertinent advice on this sub-
ject: 
	In the numerous speculations as to the va-
riety of ways and channels through which the
germs of contagious disease may be dissemi-
nated, there is one to which but little or no
importance has thus far been attached, but
which, nevertheless, probably plays an import-
ant role. We refer to that universal circulating
medium—money. It passes impartially from
the hand of the millionaire into that of the 
beggar, constantly circulatimg through every
class and condition of society. The person of
fastidious tastes, who will turn from his path 
rather than risk coming into actual contact 
with others of un[-]lanly dress or person will
receive, handle and carry in his pocket with-
out the slightest symptoms of disgust, or per-
haps without giving it a thought, money that
has thousands of times passed through hands
or reposed in pockets whose contact he would
deem to be pollution.  
	In respect to the dangers that may arise from
this cause, paper money is undoubtedly more
to be feared than coin, and the indescribably
filthy appearance of much of that which is 
seen in circulation is familiar to all who read
this. That the handling of such nasty stuff is
often fraught with serious danger, no sensible
person can doubt. It would be well if the
system said to be in vogue in certain countries
of Europe, of destroying every note that comes
into the banks and issuing new ones in their
stead were practiced with us, though even this
would only to some extent lessen and not do
away with the danger.
	But though paper currency is the most to
be feared on the score of communicating dis-
ease, coin is by no means free from danger of
the same kind. It has been shown that the
blackish coating, which may be seen in the re-
cesses and in the milled edges of coins that
have been in circulation for a short time, con-
sists of organic filth which when introduced 
into distilled water and examined under the
microscope was found to be swarming with
bacteria and fungi. 
	We are not sanguine enough to expect that
our readers shall decline to touch or handle 
the stuff, for the reasons here pointed out, but 
we can not refrain from uttering our protest
against the unutterable nastiness, of which
many persons are guilty who would feel them-
selves deeply insulted at any insinuation of a 
lack of refinement or good breeding, of placing


paper currency or coin in the mouth for tem-
porary convenience, while making change or
the like. This most disgusting habit is, singu-
larly enough, confined almost exclusively to
womankind, and is an act of thoughtlessness
which, if any who read this ever practiced, 
we feel sure they will never do again.—Ex.


ENTERING LIFE.

ANNUAL GRADUATING EXERCISES OF SPEN-
		CERIAN BUSINESS COLLEGE.

	Albaugh's Grand Opera-House, Washington,
contained a large and distinguished audience, 
May 6th, the occasion being the twentieth an-
nual graduating exercises of the Spencrrian
Business College. 
	The auditorium resembled a magnificent
hot-house, so laden with the perfume of
many flowers was the fragrant air. While
waiting for the exercises to begin, the Marine
Band rendered a number of selections in its 
inimitable manner. The cards of invitation
which had brought this congregation together
were probably the most artistic specimens of
engraving ever issued for the purpose in that
city. One contained excellently executed por-
traits of the Cabinet, and the other the names
of the graduates. The following was the pro-
gramme. 
	Invocation, by Rev. T. A. King, of Balti-
more. Mexican Serenade, "Mandolina;" Gen-
tlemen's Salutatory, H. Norman Fleming; A
College Song, "Nut Brown Maiden," Spen-
cerian College Quartett, Messrs. Newman,
Phillips, Steele and Spencer; Ladies' Saluta-
tory, Bertha L. De Graffe; Cornet Solo, "La
Belle Amazone," Mr. Walter F. Smith; Gen-
tlemen's Valedictory, Paul A. Steele; Xylo-
phone Solo, "Schmeichelkatzchen," Mr. F. W. 
Lusby; Ladies' Valedictory, Augusta C. Wil-
lige; Song, "Annie Laurie," St. Cecilia Quar-
tett; Solo by Mrs. H. H. Mills; To Lady
Graduates, Vice Principal Mrs. Sara A. Spencer.
Caprice, "Yankee Patrol;" To Gentlemen Gradu-
ates, Principal Henry C. Spencer. A College
Song, "Upidee," College Quartett; Valse,
"Olie Mama." Awarding Diplomas, by Hon.
Daniel W. Voorhees, United States Senate. 
Galop, "Fun in a Skating Rink."


MOTHERS IN-LAW IN HISTORY.

	To support the idea that mothers-in-law have
never been favorably regarded, ethnologists
tell us that a singular custom, which enacts
that a man shall never look upon the face of
his mother-in-law after he is once married, 
prevails amongst numerous savage peoples ap-
parently widely sundered by geographical dis-
tribution and differences of race. The cus-
tom obtains among the Kaffirs of South Africa, 
among several of the Australian tribes, and
among many Polynesians, a fact which some
people assume to point to a common origin of
these races, but which others look upon as
testimony of the existence of a natural law; 
as a piece of wisdom indigenous to each of
these countries, and the direct growth of in-
dividual experience. The custom being found
in such widely separated continents as Africa
and Australia is considered as proving that
it must have been suggested by some common
necessity of human nature, and reasons are
not wanting to show why savages discovered it
was better for a man not to look upon his
mother-in-law. Primarily, say the supporters
of this theory, because his mother-in-law was
a picture in anticipation of what his wife was
likely to be. Before marriage, a man's mind
may not be open to the cold process of com-
parison, but afterwards he begins to consider
what sort of a bargain he has made, and if his 
mother-in-law has not improved with age, the


ghastly possibility of his wife; becoming like
her rises before him. Hence these savage
tribes prescribe the rule that never after mar-
riage should a man see his mother-in-law, and
this in time became a social law or custom.


FOOLSCAP.
 
The origin of this term in its application to
paper is historical and interesting enough to
be repeated here. After Charles I. of England
had been executed the new government of
which Cromwell was the head set to work, and
one of its aims was to remove everything that
smacked of royalty. The paper in official
use up to that time had as a water-mark the
king's crown; and when Cromwell was asked
what should be put in the place of this crown; 
he directed a fool's cap to be put in place of
the crown. This was done, and when Charles
II. ascended the throne of England it was at
first forgotton to replace the cap by something
else, and afterward the king was afraid to do 
anything to recall things dangerous to touch, 
and so it was neglected, and the fool's cap may
be seen as a water-mark on nearly all official
papers in England. It was used in America, 
but of late it has disappeared, while the word
fool's cap remains as an indication of a certain
size of paper.—G. B.


PROMINENT EYES.

	The eye is sometimes protruded in conditions
of disease directly or indirectly related to the
organ. People who are short-sighted, con-
stitutionally dropsical, or affected by hypertro-
phy of the membranes, have protruding eye-
balls, but as a rule their appearance indicates
the abnormal condition. The eye of health 
differs much from the eye of disease, and ex-
perience enables the observer to discriminate
quickly between them.—C. B.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending April 27, 1886, as follows: 
	Marie Cinoris, New York, Artificial Fruit. 
	Mary E. Walker, Oswego, N. Y., Indicat-
ing Orthography. 
	Annie Walther, Fond du Lac, Wis., Gar-
ment-fastening
	Amelia H. Ward, Springfield, Mass., Book
and Music-holder.


Princess Louise's illustrations and sketches
of Canadian life and scenery are used exclu-
sively in illustrating the new guide-book to
Canada, compiled and just issued by the Do-
minion government. 

The free Monday scientific lectures have be-
come so popular among the daughters of the 
artisans of Birmingham, England, that wash-
ing day has been changed to Tuesday. The
London Globe considers this the greatest
achievement of science thus far. 

	There was picked up in London recently 
one of the fifty copies of Mrs. Browning's 
earliest poem, "Marathor." It was written
when she was eleven years old, and was printed
by her father. It is now in the hands of the 
keeper of printed books at the British
Museum. 

	There was lately held in Westminster Town
Hall, England, and interesting meeting under
the auspices of the Rational Dress Society. 
Upwards of one thousand ladies attended. 
The desire was for a dress that shall be health-
ful, useful, and becoming. It was contended
that a dress need not weigh more than seven
pounds, instead of twenty pounds, as a fashion-
able dress does at present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.] 
	A MOTHER'S WISH.

I am thinking to-night of the future,
	Of a time that will soon be our own, 
When the trials of life will be ended, 
	And we'll dwell in God's kingdom alone. 

When around us will be all the glory
	We've thought of and dreamt of so long, 
And within us will live all the gladness
	That falls upon God's holy throng. 

And I think how we'll look upon earth-life,
	Its sickness, its troubles, its cares,
Thanking God if its end were successful,
	That we fell not within its deep snares. 

How with sorrow we'll look upon weakness,
	How regretfully think upon wrong.
How with gladness we'll view acts of meekness,
	And know how by pain we grew strong. 

We will weep that in sorrow we bore them—
	Our darlings, our innocent lambs, 
With a world full of darkness before them, 
	To be grasped by their dear trusting hands. 

Oh, how with devoutest emotion
	We will thank the great Father of Love; 
If united with us in devotion,
	We may clasp our dear children above! 

Father, grant that Thy glory and goodness
	May dwell in their hearts to the end! 
Let Thy grace and Thy care be sufficient, 
	Let Thy Spirit be ever their Friend. 

And as life with its struggles advances, 
	Oh, strengthen their hearts for the fray, 
May Thy Spirit, which all good enhances, 
	Give them strength and desire for their day. 

Oh, how lovely will then be the future, 
	That day of bright sunlight alone, 
Then, united in God's happy kingdom, 
	We may call the Eternal our own! 
						RUBY LAMONT.
Glenwood, Utah.


[Column 1]
		A FEW THOUGHTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I find myself, in spite of all my hard work,
tired hands and weary brain just wishing to 
talk a little to you by means of the pen. Oh,
how grand it would be to just be able to ex-
press one's thoughts in a satisfactory manner,
but for me, that is impossible with my present 
stock of information. I must then try to be
content with humble efforts to do good, trust-
ing in God for aid in every attempt. Every
article I read in "our paper" gives me some
encouragement and helps to strengthen my de-
termination to go on in the good labor in
which we as Saints are engaged. My eyes are
often dimmed with falling tears as I read in
its columns of the departure to the "better
land" of some loved brother or sister leaving
friends almost frantic with grief. If it is a
wife, tenderly beloved as every true woman
should be, who can fathom the depth of a
husband's sorrow; and if a protector and guide,
who can read the anguish of that widowed
breast? None, none save those who have
drank from the same bitter cup, and that to
its very dregs. As I sit and ponder over these
things, I ask myself this question: Do we as
husbands and wives love and appreciate each
other as we should while we are privileged to
live together, or must we wait till the grave
has snatched one to begin to realize the duty
we owe to each other? In holy places we
have made sacred covenants to be true and
faithful while life shall last, and when our ex-
istence here is ended we expect to be reunited
and enjoy each other's society throughout the
countless ages of eternity. I am led to be-
lieve that when our Heavenly Father and the
holy angels witnessed the sacred ceremony
that united us, it was intended we should tread

[Column 2]
life's pathway hand in hand as loving, trust-
ing companions, and be one in very deed,
sharing joy and sorrow alike, and if pure kind-
ness is a characteristic of life O how much we
may lighten care and soften the many trials
that fall to our lot. Why I really believe
there are men who do not realize that the poor
tired woman they call wife ever needs a tender
word or a caress after the first months of 
wedded life. They forget that her heart re-
mains the same. Though the pink may fade
from her cheek and lip, and her eye seem less
bright, her natural desire to be loved, and es-
pecially by him, is unchanged, and ever will
 be if she be a desirable wife. I also have met
wives who possessed the most devoted husbands
and yet they would repulse their every act of
endearment, and were as cold and indifferent
towards the fathers of their children as a 
Northern iceberg. It is true that some natures
are quiet and undemonstrative, but surely
there is a way that those so near and dear can
be assured of the perfect love and trust of each
other. It is cruel and contrary to the will of 
God for His children to drag out a miserable
existence on this earth, heart-hungry and
weary, when He placed the desire in
the bosom of every person to be loved
and impart love to some congenial spirit.
If we truly share our husband's joy and
sorrow we will love not only our own dear
children, but we will have a tender watchcare
over all those who belong to his family. We
will regard the rights of those who stand as
our equals in every respect in the eyes of God.
Their little ones we will love; their interest we
will seek, and while they are unhappy we can-
not rejoice. My sisters, let no idle gossip fill
 your hearts with unkindness toward any mem-
ber of the family to which you belong. Re-
member, it is Satan's mission to make you un-
happy and destroy you body and soul, if you
give him power to do so. Tell him with power
to stand back. Do not take him to your
bosom and regard him as a friend, even if he
presents himself in the form of some one you
have felt to trust. That one is a false friend 
if he tries to destroy your confidence in any it
is your duty to respect.
	Let all understand that a mischief maker is
detestable to you, and the book of God has
condemned all such. Does it not say, "Blessed
is the peacemaker, for he shall inherit the
right to dwell in His kingdom?" Also,
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall
see God." Do you think the tale bearer, the
evil speaker, who creeps into our hearts and
homes with his wily hypocrisy, can be classed 
with either of these?
	Now a word to those who are inclined to
talk: Be sure you always speak the truth, and
remember, it is not only a sin to say that
which is false, but it is also very wicked and
contemptible to tell every little thing you may
have heard for facts, when you are aware the
telling may wound hearts and injure good
names and destroy friends. None can imagine
the extent of the harm you may do just to
gratify the curiosity of your hearers and your
own insatiable desire to mind that which does
not concern you. Let me implore of you to
try to overcome this fault. Pray for our kind
Father to help you, and He will hear you and
answer your petitions if you are determined.
All good men and women will learn in time to
trust you, and how much more satisfied you
will be with yourself than when you were a 
mere tool to carry on the practices of Satan
and his train. My sisters, this is plain talk,
and it is not given to wound one tender heart,
but to remind us of the great and important
duties we owe to husbands, wives, and in fact
to all the human family.
	We are living in an eventful time, when
 great things are about to transpire, and we
must begin to make hasty preparation if we
desire to regain the time we have lost in our

[Column 3]
slowness to comprehend the things in store for
the faithful, and the necessity of our watching
our every thought  and word and deed.
	I pray that heaven may aid us to overcome
every weakness of our nature, that we may
live so pure with each other that we may one
day be worthy to enjoy this "perfect love."	
					VIOLET OWENS.
	May 4th, 1886.


A TRIBUTE.

	DEAR FRIENDS:

	I am in doubt as to whether you ever
cast a thought out here to this central portion
of the U. S. A., being so absorbed in your vari-
ous cares at home, that you do not find time
to roam, perhaps, even in thought so far away.
It seems an age waiting to hear direct from
you.
	Glorious spring! arrayed in all her magnifi-
cent robes of beauty, is around me, yet the
world is so full of chaos, caused by the very 
essence of sin poured out unsparingly by the
arch fiend, that I cannot rejoice as I otherwise 
would in nature's brilliant adorning at this
most delightful and unusually advanced, grace-
fully budding and blooming season. The EX-
PONENT for May 1st has been tardy in appear-
ing, but pays for delay in its variety and 
charmingly interesting make up—from "The
Marriage of the Flowers"—

	Such a pretty thing in rhyme, 
	It sat my thoughts a roving 
	To gardens sweet with thyme;
	To blooming fields of clover,
	I crossed on time's bridge over, 
	And soon became a rover
	In youth's enchanted clime; 
	Where sweetest notes were sounded
	In strains that were divine, 
	And I would continue further, 
	But excuse me, just this time.

	Each article in its place was duly read and 
traced all through, each little column, from
Household Hints to advertisements, and al-
though some things related made me a shade
more sad, others compensated and made me
rather glad; as for instance, "Why Is It?"
"Watch the Children's Feet," "Armenian
Sketches," excellent! "Washington Notes," 
unique! The poem to Marinda, fresh from a
loving heart, was justly due to memory, as she
holds a sacred part with all the good and true
and I fain would add my tribute of sincere
praises too. "Spring!" Beautiful, vernal queen, 
crowned with bays supernal, by Royalty well
sung, subject most prolific for ready pen or
tongue. It sent my pulses bounding to read
its praises o'er, and hum that old song over, oft
trilled in days of yore, when but a very child-
ling on the threshold of life's door. Thanks
for the inspiration, 'tis worthy of a King, to
stir the chords of memory, folded beneath
time's wing, till there comes a grand rehear-
sal of life's early days in spring, and grateful
thanks we render to our Sister Poet King. 
					L. M. HEWLINGS. 
	Atchison, May 19th, 1886.


The women suffragists seem to be quite en-
couraged upon the whole by the recent for-
tunes of their cause. The slowest and hard-
est place is perhaps Massachusetts.—Salem
Observer.

	The Indians of Alaska are skillful silver-
smiths, and their silver bracelets are in de-
mand. A lame workman is in special repute;
he sells dozens of bracelets at good prices on
the arrival of each steamer. This Indian is a 
very rapid workman; from a piece of coin he
will make a beautifully chased ring in an hour
or so with his rude tools.


178						WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.		
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
 o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to

			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 15, 1886.


﻿OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	One can realize most fully when absent from
Zion or the valleys of the mountains what a
power in the hands of the women of this Church
a newspaper is. We are well aware that many of
our sisters think very little of the "WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT," and look upon it as too insignificant
for them to patronize, or even read, but they do
not comprehend its importance, if they did, they
would be anxious to sustain it by their influence,
and by subscription as well. People open their
eyes in wonder when one tells them the Mormon
women publish a paper, and were we to mention
all the facts in our possession concerning this mat-
ter collected since we have been roaming
abroad in the Eastern States it would fill a book.
	The fifty copies we took from here were given
away during the first few weeks and we have many
orders to fill of single copies promised when we
shall return, at which time we intend to use our
utmost exertions to secure more subscribers. How
is it that our sisters are not alive to the fact that
the little "EXPONENT" proclaims the doctrines of
the Church from a woman's point of view, the
very side of the question that is agitating Con-
gress, etc., at the present time. Is it not legiti-
mate to pay money towards circulating a paper to
explain principles and doctrines and defend
woman's position on the question of plural mar-
 riage giving woman's own testimony? There
are very few sisters who actually come in contact
with the women of the world to give verbal tes-
timony, but they have, through this channel the op-
portunity of expressing their views and opinions
in favor of the practice of an unpopular principle,
and that testimony, if it be genuine, has its effect
notwithstanding the opposition that seems so
strong at present. Thoughtful women who see and
deplore the condition of society are impressed
with the eternal truths that have been received
and embraced by the Latter-day Saints and it is
possible to bear strong testimony to men and
women in high places through the pages of the
"WOMAN'S EXPONENT." The sisters should
awake to this fact. Since we have been absent we
might have given away thousands of copies of
the EXPONENT had we been provided with them,
and it attracts particular attention because it is
by "Mormon' women.
	The agents for the papers in all the wards and
settlements, and all who are interested in the
spread of truth and the growth of Zion, should
double their diligence at this critical time in the
history of the Church, and see what can be done
among the faithful ones to secure more subscrib-
ers, that the influence of Mormon women may be
extended, and the women of the world who are
unenlightened in regard to the motives, methods
and practices of this people may have the privil-
ege of the experiences and testimonies given on
this important principle of our religion. Remem-
ber, this number closes the fourteenth volume, and
the next number will commence the fifteenth
volume, when the young and timid maiden is just


entering into the broader field of usefulness, and
comes to more mature thought and development.
Trusting it may be so with our dear little EXPON-
ENT, we would entreat our sisters to give this
silent messenger of their views and expressions
more liberal patronage and careful attention in
the near future.


[Column 1]
		﻿WASHINGTON JOTTINGS.

	It is very difficult out of so much material to
know which will be the most interesting to the
readers of the Exponent, but we will try to touch
briefly on some of the most important events now
in progress or just past. Easter festivals were
pretty generally celebrated. Easter lilies, and
other flowers of the choicest varieties were
plentifully used to decorate and the great abund-
ance of Easter cards and gifts were as varied as
the tastes of the purchasers. The Roman Catho-
lics celebrations surpass all others in point of
grandeur and imposing effects, and consequently
draw great crowds of people to see the ornamenta-
tion. Early morning masses were the first ex-
ercises and afterwards services for the people and
sermons with the most impressive music. Easter
Sunday is the great festival of the Resurrection,
and all the pomp and ceremony possible, one
would imagine, is observed to represent the risen
Christ.  The candles burning among the most
beautiful lilies and foliage lend a sort of enchant-
ment to the scene and the rich music and cere-
monials of the robed priests and nuns are all cal-
culated to produce solemnity and awaken senti-
ment in the hearts of those who have not known
a “better way,” a more sublime method of recog-
nition of the Savior's ascension. The sanctuaries
of the churches were most elaborately decorated
and brilliantly lighted. The carol singing was
full of melody, and the children in white with
their long veils and bouquets of flowers, march-
ing through the aisles of the Church were a lovely
and imposing sight.
	Another very pretty practice, and one very in-
teresting to the children is egg rolling. Monday
after Easter large numbers of children gather
on the White House grounds and enjoy this annu-
al custom of rolling Easter eggs down the grassy
knolls. They take a lunch out with them and
have a regular pic-nic on the grass and thoroughly
enjoy the sport. This year we were told Presi-
dent Cleveland shook hands with hundreds of
these happy little people.
	Now the gay season after Lent has begun and
a great variety of entertainments are already on
the tapis. One of the most unique entertainments
now open is “The Village Fair at the W. L. I.
Corps Armory. Like the Fairs in England it was
opened by the ’Squire, who made a speech in
“bonbastic phrase.” He was a jolly looking,
stout English ’Squire in breeches and hose, short
of breath followed by a troop of village maidens
One of the distinctive features of the evening was
the appearance of the great physician to the
Emperor of all the Chinas, who performed magic
tricks and exploited the great cures effected by
his nostrums. Strolling players, a Turkish
booth and the white Elephant of Burmah and a
shadow pantomine were attractive parts of the
show. Another famous social event is the Kirmes
which was given at the National Theatre. The
affair was managed by leading society ladies.
There were a variety of dances given in costnme
the Tyrolean by sixty dancers all in the peasant
holiday dress of the Tyrols, then the flower
dance—thirty two young ladies as flowers and
twelve as bees.  Of the flowers there were eight
poppies, eight daisies, eight roses, eight violets.
Then followed the Swedish in costume, Indian
dance composed of young people of the families of
Senators and Representatives, Minuet, Japanese,
and Gypsy dances. On the stage were the musici-
ans and four booths, the central portion being oc-

[Column 2]
cupied by the ladies of the committee. On the
left of the stage was the Oriental booth and ad-
joining was the gypsy encampment.
	There have been two deaths recently of dis-
tinguished Roman Catholic clergyman. Father
Ryan well known as the “Poet Priest” died on 
the 22nd of April in Louisville He distinguished
himself recently as a lecturer,but as an author he is
more widely and favorably known.  The writer
while traveling in the East during the past winter
heard some very interesting incidents concerning
the deceased, and become much interested
in his poetry.  The poems most admired
by the masses are “The Conquered Banner"
and “The Sword Of Lee.” After the
funeral exercises in Louisville, the remains were
taken to Mobile. The last tribute laid upon his
coffin was an immense passion cross of lilies sur-
mounted by a Niel rose crown and resolutions
were read by Gen. Alpheus Baker. These reso-
lutions are something very different from those
ordinarily prepared for like occasions.
	The other priest alluded to as having passed
away was Father Maguire,whose funeral services
were solemnized in the Church of St. Aloysius in
this city.  Arch bishop Gibbons and many priests,
about fifty in number, were present.
	That which will interest our readers most
is of quite a dfferent character to the events al-
ready alluded to.	
	The arguments before the Supreme Court of
the United States in the case of Apostle Lorenzo
Snow begun April 28th, and continued two
days. The opening of the case was made by Hon.
F. S. Richards, and while listening to the presen-
tation we could not help feeling a good degree of
pride in our young friend and brother for the
masterly manner in which he laid the matter be-
fore the Chief Justice and his associate judges.
He covered the ground carefully not failing in
a single particular. He was followed by George
Ticknor Curtis, Esquire, an eminent lawyer and
author of several standard books, a man held in
very high esteem in literary and social circles and
a man thoroughly versed in the Law. He made a
grandly eloquent and pathetic appeal, as well as
presenting logical and unanswerable arguments
on all the points in question. His manner was
earnest, impressive and thoroughly genuine, he
evidently spoke from the depths of his heart.
His speech has since been published in pamphlet
form, and a part of Mr. Richards’ along with it.
It was a brilliant effort and plea for justice and
religions liberty and rights of conscience, and
we trust copies of it will be widely circulated.
	The Assistant Attorney General represented the
government, and his speech throughout was bitter,
and some parts of it scathing in the extreme. He
seemed to forget the dignity of the position he
occupied, and of the temple of justice in which he
stood and the august presence of the Judges be-
fore whom he was arguing for this free and glori-
ous government, one might have thought that he
was totally oblivious to all save the simple fact
that he stood there not to interpret the law and
ask that it be observed or enforced, but to vent
his own spleen upon an unpopular people, and
pour forth a tirade of abuse such as we trust has
never before been heard at the most exalted tri-
bunal of this great and free Republic. Mr. Rich-
ards closed and submitted the case in such a calm,
fervent and unimpassioned manner, after all the
taunts and aspersions of his opponent, that it
would seem impossible for any one who possessed
an honest soul not to discover the difference be-
tween the spirit of the two arguments. Mr.
Richards deserves the highest encomiums of
praise from the people he represents, for the very
able and impressive speeches made in this im-
portant case before the Supreme Court of the
United States. 		
	The hearing before the Sub-Committee of the
Judiciary of the House of Representatives fol-


[Column 1]
lowed close upon the case in the Supreme
Court.  The first argument on our side of the
question was made by Mr. Chandler, attorney at
law.  He was very positive and made strong
points, bringing forward abundant testimony
from standard legal books to substantiate
his assertions.  Baskin had already been granted
a hearing, and had made many erroneous state-
ments, that required contradiction.
	The next day F. S. Richards and A. M. Gibson
occupied the time, covering, it would seem, the
entire ground in the most able and dignified man-
ner.  Their arguments were deep, far reaching
and sound, and ought to have impressed all who
listened to them with their genuineness and mat-
ter of fact style of logic.  They stuck to the sub-
ject, not rambling off into unknown regions for
the sake of effect, or skimming over the ground
without plunging into its depths, but faithfully
summing up the whole matter in brief, so that all
who were not blind might see the situation clearly.
	George F. Boutwell, formerly a member of
Congress, from Mass., and also Governor of that
grand old State, made one of the most eloquent
speeches that it was possible for anyone to make
on the unconstitutionality of the Edmunds bill.
His age, his tone of voice, his prestige, and above
all his impressive eloquence of style, all told
powerfully in favor of those he represented.  He
was followed by Mr. Chandler on some particular
points in question, who referred to authorities on
the subject, and the next in order was Mr. Baskin,
the representative of the so-called “Liberals” in
Utah, who gave his startling and bombastic tirade
on Monday, May 3rd; it lasted four whole hours.
He pictured the “Mormons” as the most despic-
able of all human beings.  To hear him talk, they
are too wicked to be suffered to live on the earth,
yet Mr. Baskin stood there and told  them that he
had lived right among this people for twenty years.
O consistency, where hast thou fled?  The man
literally wore himself out abusing the “Mor-
mons;” he completely exhausted all his energies,
physical and mental, and on his face was the look
of abject despair as he closed his speech, and one
would suppose from his manner he was also
ready to give up the ghost.  The next morning
Hon. Joseph A. West, of Ogden, occupied a part
of the time, and refuted many of the unjust and
cruel aspersions cast upon the “Mormon” people
by Mr. Baskin, who is not at all above associating
with our people at home, but in Washington one
would suppose to hear him that he could not look
upon a Mormon with any degree of complacency.
Our Utah Delegate to Congress, Mr. Caine, made
a long and exhaustive argument, meeting and ex-
plaining away all the objective points made by Mr.
Baskin.  It positively seemed as if the opponent
had not a pin’s head to stand upon.
	Throughout the entire proceedings the Chair-
man, the Hon. John Randolph Tucker, main-
tained the most perfect equanimity and good na-
ture.  He seemed not only willing, but anxious to
arrive at an understanding of all the matter in
dispute on either side, and to accord the best op-
portunity possible for free and full discussion of
the subject.  He deserves gratitude for the unpre-
judiced and unbiased spirit he manifested through-
out the entire proceedings.
	One important fact, that impressed itself most
powerfully upon the writer, was that the principles
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ were being taught
in the Capitol of the nation, and in the Judicial
department, the Temple of Justice, the Supreme
Court, the highest tribunal to which appeal can be
made in this free and enlightened country; also in
the Committee room of the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives, and everything brought
up against us by the opponents of “Mormonism”
only gave greater opportunity to defend the peo-
ple and advocate and explain the principles, and
institutions that exist in the Church, surely “God
moves in a mysterious way His wonders to per-

[Column 2]
form.”  There are many interesting items con-
nected with these hearings that may be summed
up at another time, but lest our readers tire of
these topics, we forbear for the present, hoping
when at home again to devote more time to the
articles which have always been sent off in haste
while journeying from place to place, or sojourn-
ing at the Capitol.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	GOLDEN WEDDING.

	The fiftieth anniversary of the marriage of
Elder Jospeh Horne and his wife, Mary Isabella,
was celebrated at the old homestead in the Four-
teenth Ward of this city, on the 9th of May, with
family and friends, and was a most unique and en-
joyable gathering.  It is a rare occurrence in the
lives of married people to live half a century with-
out one or the other passing away; and perhaps
rarer still to have so numerous and noble a pos-
terity as Bro. and Sister Horne have around them.
They were married on the 9th of May, 1836, and
two months afterwards they were baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints by Elder Orson Hyde, so that the
date of their marriage and baptism is within the
same year.  A sumptuous dinner was prepared by
the children at the paternal mansion, and many
sons and daughters and grandchildren sat down
to the abundant repast.  The evening was spent
in social, family enjoyment, and the grandchildren
entertained the older ones with music, recitations
and songs.
	On Monday evening the family and many of 
their relatives, nearly a hundred in all, assembled at
their residence, though many friends were not
able to attend, and sent flowers, gifts and good wishes
instead.  Of those who had desired to be present,
and were not well enough, was our beloved and
venerable sister and mother in Israel, Eliza R. 
Snow Smith.  The Eldest son being absent in
Arizona, Joseph, the eldest one present, read to
the assembly letters of congratulations from
particular friends who were absent addressed to
the venerable pair on their having reached a
half century of united married happiness,
and these letters also contained expressions
of good wishes and blessings.  A telegram of
sincere congratulation was also received from
Mrs. E. B. Wells, sent from Washington, D. C.
Following these a presentation was made by
Elder Joseph Horne to his father, with a few per-
tinent remarks, of an elegant gold watch and
chain from his children, and a handsom charm
locket from his granchildren.  To the mother he
made a presentation of a watch chain and slide
with cameo,, and a pair of gold rimmed
spectacles from her children, and a heavy
gold ring of three pearls, from her
grandchildren.  One of the daughters,
Mrs. M. H. Tingey, read a very appropriate poem
written for the occassion by Mrs. E. H. Woodman-
see.  Dr. E. S. Barney read an address in behalf
of the sisters, and presented from
several of them a handsome gold thim-
ble.  From other friends Mrs. Horne
received several other valuable presents—
a gold collar button, with diamond, pretty charm
for watch chain, gold and moss agate, silver and
gold tankard, silver and gold spoonholder, gold
scarf pin, and other pretty and useful articles.
	The only person present at the golden wedding
who had witnessed the marriage ceremony of the
host and hostess, fifty years before, was the sister
of Mrs. Horne, Mrs. Harriet Ellis of Bountiful.
Bro. and Sister Horne have had a very large
family—fifteen children in all, ten of whom are
living, all honored and useful members of society,
sixty-seven grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.  The opening speech, was made by acting
Bishop Brown, who mentioned in his remarks
that it had been talked of that an entertain-
ment should be arranged by the ward at the hall,

[Column 2]
but it was given up when it was known
that the family had already made their 
preparations.  Interesting remarks were
also made by Bishop Weiler, and
Brother Geo. Price.  To these Bro. Horne re-
sponded in an appropriate speech.  Some of the
ladies also made short speeches Sisters S. M.
Kimball, E. Howard and Sister Swartz.
	There were many floral offerings, gifts of friends,
choice flowers were tastefully used to decorate the
rooms, and the portratis of Brother and Sister
Horne were wreathed around with smilax and
myrtle artistically arranged.  The bride of fifty years
was dressed in a handsome brown silk dress
with real lace collar and cuffs and she looked so
fresh and well preserved one could scarcely be-
lieve that she had lived half a century as wife and
mother, and had passed through so many of the
changing scenes of life and the drivings and mob-
bings which the Saints have suffered from time
to time. 
	We join with the many genuine friends 
of Brother and Sister Horne in
wishing them continued prosperity, happin-
ness and long life with their numerous
and noble family.  we expect to publish in our
next issue the poem written for this happy occa-
sion by our esteemed poet sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee.


﻿OUR CHILDREN.

	A pitiful and also very instructive story was re-
lated to me the other evening by a lady friend. It
was of a little girl, who, from birth, was the idol-
ized pet of her father, mother, relatives and
friends. When she was four years old, she was 
presented with a fine baby brother. Being of a
gentle, retiring nature, the little girl listened with
marked attention to the praises and compliments
showered upon the new baby, without giving utter-
ance to her own opinion of him, or the feelings
his presence created with her.
	Not long after the birth of the baby boy, the
parents were alarmed at the discovery that their
cherished first born, who up to that time had been
remarkably well, was gradually failing in health,
and to render the matter still more serious, no
clue could be obtained to the cause of the child’s
decline, though the parents employed their best
efforts, assisted by competent medical advisers.
The child could give no reason herself why she
no longer had any desire to eat, why her play-
things were all uninteresting to her, or why she
seemed nervous and restless in her sleep; yet cer-
tain it was that she had changed from a happy,
rosy little girl to a pensive, pale one, and still
grew paler and weaker every day.
	She was one day quietly sitting by herself, as
children often do, when her father drew very near
to her without attracting her attention. He
watched her carefully, and listened earnestly to
catch the words she was uttering, hoping to find
some trace of the cause of her late apathy, and he
was rewarded. He heard her say, “Tommy is
everything now, everybody loves Tommy, but
they don’t care anything about me any more!"
	The truth burst suddenly upon the father’s
mind—his little girl was pining for the love she
thought she had lost in the advent of her baby
brother. She had given no sign of vengeful feel-
ings, as some little ones do who consider their
rights infringed upon, but her sensitive nature
could not well endure the sudden change of hear-
ing and seeing another take the first place in every
one’s affection, which had formerly been her own.
It was a well timed and most fortunate discovery.
The parents took good care that their little
daughter did not again feel the want of love and
attention, and she was soon nursed and petted
back to her wonted health and happiness.
	When I heard this story it forcibly reminded me
of  twolovely little girls who recently lived near


me. Both were very sweet in their dispositions
and smart to learn, but in some respects the
younger surpassed the elder. It often occurred to
me that too much notice was taken of these differ-
ences, by those who loved the children best. I
never looked into the face of the elder sister with-
out seeing there a pale, soft melancholy, which
always won my sympathy, and I never listened to
recitals of the younger one's superiority without
wishing in my heart that something might also be
told concerning the worth of the other.
	These are subjects well worth careful considera-
tion. Little hearts are often so sensitive that they
grieve over very little things. The never ending
variety which exists in all the creations of our
Father, is no where more noticeable than among
our little ones. Their faces, their voices and
their dispositions all differ in one way or another,
giving to each certain marks of individuality.
	What a study is here offered for parents! How
to train their children that each one may be most
useful and happy in his or her particular sphere;
how to measure for each a just amount of time for
work, for study and for play; a reasonable share
of reproof, without which scarcely any child can
be wisely reared; and enough and no more of en-
couragement and praise.
	Very much is contained in the Bible, Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants that will
greatly aid parents in the all important duties of
training their children, and every mother should
seek diligently to learn the revealed word of the
Lord on this weighty subject.
								LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHAFF.

	Women are either fat or scraggy in New York,
and in full dress resemble either the fat lady of the
circus or an anatomical study in bones.
	The New York women have pretty faces.
	English women are well formed; Scotch are
larger boned, and Irish (in the north) raw boned.
	American women have small hands and feet;
British women have large hands and feet. The 
former cannot walk, while the latter are good pe-
destrians.
	The Edinburgh women are among the neatest
and most tasty dressers in the world. They are
also decidedly original. In New York and
Washington women run into styles, and you may
see hundreds with the same things. This is not
true of Edinburgh. The costumes are remark-
ablely neat, differ greatly, and what is still more
remarkable, they are all very quiet.
	The Edinburgh men are homely, generally loud
dressers, and few of them have good figures, in
which they contrast greatly with the women, who
are pretty and exceptionally well formed.
	Scotchmen, with rare exceptions, do not know
how to treat women. They are rude and boorish
compared with women, while the women make
themselves so cheap that the tendency is to still
greater rudeness among the poorer classes in Eng-
land and Ireland. The women, as a rule, are
very badly treated, especially when compared with,
the manner in which New Englanders view
women or appear to view them.
	In America the prettier women are among the
wealthier classes. In Great Britain they seem to
be among the poorer, and for this reason so many
are ruined at an early age, and in the streets
which they frequent one is astonished to find so
great a number of lovely women hopelessly lost.
	No wonder we can point with such pride to
what civilized monogany has done for women. We 
should be proud of it indeed!!


LETTER FTOM ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I believe you have, through the columns of your
paper, extended an invitation to the different set-
tlements to write to you occasionally.  When you


hear from us if you always hear something abou
a surprise.  I hope you will not think we have
nothing to do but study up something of the kind.
I trust our hearts are at least partially alive to the
duties in the great work in which we are engaged,
and as our motto has always been to look on the
bright side, though the clouds may hang heavy
above us, if we will watch and wait we are sure to
see the silver lining, our lives are composed of
sunshine and shadow and an agreeable sur-
prise is like a ray of light across our paths.
	April 6th the members of Y. L. M. I. A. with
united guests from the Relief Society, and our
honored Stake president C. Layton and lady,
also a number of brethren from the ward met to
present Sister Nancy M. Rollins (their late Presi-
dent) with a token of respect.  The company
were there seated around the hall, and the tables
were spread with the good things of the land ere
she made her appearance.  She was met at the door
by President Janie Wright and Counselors who
gave her a hearty welcome and led her to a seat,
she was then presented with a nice dress pattern,
and appropriate resolutions of respect were read
by Counselor Almeda Welker, to which she re-
sponded with a short address.  Said she would
not attempt to describe her feelings but could 
truly say she was surprised and pleased to meet
with us on this occasion.
	The company were there seated around the
table and all partook until they were satisfied,
after which the programme was engaged in
as   follows:    songs,    recitations,    select
readings and the Young Ladies' manuscript paper
was read by Counselor Louisa Peel.  President
Layton and Brother Weech of Pima made some
very interesting remarks.
	President Janie Wright thanked the company
for their kind attention and hoped they had been
well repaid for coming.  Singing.  Benediction
by Bro. Peel.
	On the evening of May 8th the Primary Asso-
 ciation gave a surprise to their late President,
Sister Annie Packer.  The evening was spent in 
singing recitations picnic etc. both old and young
seemed to enjoy themselves very much.
	The Relief Society is in good running order,
and take us all around I believe we are doing as
well as we can under the circumstances.
	ALMEDIA WELKER, Secretary pro tem.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		SMITHFIELD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a brief report from the Relief So-
ciety of this ward might be of interest to you
as well as your numerous readers, we very re-
spectfully submit the following:
	At a meeting held on the 21st of December
last, 1885, a reorganization of our Relief So-
ciety was effected, this reorganization having
been made necessary by the removal from our
ward of the late esteemed President, Sister A.
Barber. The following officers were unani-
mously sustained: Sister E. T. Juchaw, Presi-
dent; Sister M. Williams and M. A. Hylliard,
Counselors; Mary Woodruff, Secretary; Sister
Margaret Story, Treasurer.
	The association is in a prosperous condition,
being well united, and determined to press for-
ward in good works and fulfill the object for
which the Society was organized.
				MARY WOODRUFF, Sec.

			HEBER CITY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A conference of the Relief Society of the
Wasatch Stake of Zion was held in the Heber
City Hall, May 7th, 1886.  Present on the

[Column 2]
stand were President Emma Brown and Coun-
selors, the presidents of a number of the differ-
ent branches, President Hatch and a number 
of the brethren. Meeting was opened in the
usual manner, prayer being offered by Bishop
R. S. Duke. The minutes of the former con-
ference were read and adopted. The reports,
both written and verbal, were well rendered,
showing an increase of members since last re-
ports.
	Prest. Emma Brown and Counselors gave
their usual motherly advice, dwelling strongly
on the subject of rearing and training our
young in the proper path.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of
Sister Mary Bronson, who so efficiently occu-
pied the position of Stake Secretary, and who
departed this life February 9th, 1886, were
read and adopted.
	The congregation was addressed by Prest.
Hatch, Coun. T. H. Giles and Bishop, R. S.
Duke, who encouragingly exhorted the sisters 
to continue faithful to the cause they had es-
poused. Prest. Brown, after a few closing re-
marks, announced that conference would be
adjourned for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
	JOSEPHINE C. JONES, Sec. pro tem.

			HYRUM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps a line from Hyrum
might be acceptable I send a synopsis of the
18th anniversary of the Relief Society, which
was held at 10 a. m. in the public hall, Hyrum, 
May 8th, 1886. The hall was neatly decorated
for the occasion by the young ladies. There
were present, Prest. Adaline Barber, Sisters
Zina D. Young, Crowther, Pike, Woolf and
Turner. Bishop S. M. Molen and Counselors
several other brethren, and a large attendance
of members of the Relief Society and Y. L. 
M. I. A. After opening exercises the report
was laid before the meeting and accepted and
officers sustained as they stood before.
	Sister Zina D. Young addressed the meeting 
on training our children aright, said a child's 
education should begin as soon as it is born.
It is the duty of every mother to instil into her
children the principles of the Gospel; spoke of
the persecutions that are heaped upon us as a
people. If we have faith we will come out all
right. Also spoke in behalf of the Hospital.
	Prest. A. Barber said, if we are faithful we
have nothing to fear, the Lord has promised to
be our battle axe. Teach your sons and
daughters to keep the commandments of God.
Your report is excellent, always keep a copy
of your report. Gave very good counsel on
different subjects. Sisters Woolf, Pike and
Crowther each spoke a short time; were pleased
to meet with the sisters in Hyrum, and to hear
the excellent instructions.
	Miss S. Thorn of Brigham city next suug
a song entitled "Some day I'll wander back
again,"
	Patriarch O. N. Liljenquist gave very good
and fatherly counsel, exhorted all to faithful-
ness.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop Molen.
	At the close of the meeting the tables were
spread on the stand, and a very nice dinner was
partaken of by a large majority of the
brethren and sisters. The feast was for the
benefit of the widows, and missionaries wives 
and the aged sisters. H. A. Shaw, E. Peter-
son M. Neilson and S. McBride were the com-
mittee for the occasion and they spared no
pains to make all happy, all went off well and
every one felt that it was good to be there.
		Very respectfully,
			N. M. NEILSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS OF A GENTILE

	ON THE EDMUNDS BILL 

TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING POST:
	Sir:—Your editorial of Saturday evening,
on the Anti-Mormon Bill that has just passed
the Senate, evinces the fact that you are not
ready to countenance a law that looks to the
confiscation of a religious community's proper-
ty because some of its members are alleged
criminals.
	The proposition to put fourteen United
States officials into a religious corporation,
against thirteen honest fanatics, avowedly to
outvote the representatives of the rightful
owners of the property, and thereby to steal, in
the name of the United States Government,
subtsance that belongs to the Mormon com-
munity as justly as Trinity Church belongs to 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, seems a cum-
brous and expensive mode of robbery.
	It differs, however, not in spirit—only in its
modus operandi—from the proposition of one 
of the leading lights in Massachusetts theology
and ethics, who proposed to set a wateh for
William Penn and his co-religionists, that they
might be captured before landing, their sub-
stance taken, and their persons enslaved. The
early New England saint thought it sufficient-
ly stimulating to the enterprise of his co-saints,
to point out the fact that the pestilent Quakers
were rich, especially their leader, and that
their substance should be laid hold of for the
use and benefit of the orthodox. He did not
propose to limit the expedition to a bare ma-
ority, in order to accomplish the robbery; nor
did he propose to make the thieves salaried
officers of the Commonwealth; but he did pro-
pose that the Commonwealth should stand by
and protect them by their great moral worth
and godly influence. 
	Political and ethical evolution have wrought
their refinements since the days of which I 
have spoken, and Mr. Edmunds, a New Eng-
land saint, adjusted to the environment of
modern hypocrisy, proposes to rob a whole
community because some of its members are 
alleged to be guilty of "lascivious cohabita-
tion;”a thing that he knows is common through-
out the United States, yea, in his own town,
his own State, and in an aggravated form, in
the great capital, where a strict enforcement
of the law would place some of those who
helped to make it, behind the bars.
	Should the House pass this bill, and it be-
come a law, its reactive influence will be so
great and rapid, that in the near future the
Mormons will have to be enumerated by mil-
lions, instead of by hundreds of thousands, as
at present.
	Legislation so palpably unjust, unconstitu-
tional and tyrannous, is sure to defeat the sub-
ject aimed at, and raise up friends and support-
ors of the persecuted. 
	To pass a law that would compel the public 
registration of all marriages in Utah, and
other Territories, so that the Mormon so-called
celestial marriages could not be kept secret,
and thus facilitate the trial and conviction of
those guilty of an indictable offence, would be
the work of statesmen, But to enact this in-
famous measure, which would turn loose upon
an honest, industrious, religious community a
band of legalized, salaried robbers, would be
something that ought to cause the modern
Turk to hang his head in guilty shame.
	Furthermore: If this bill should become a
law, it will give the Supreme Court a finer job
of hair-splitting and “outside work to establish
its constitutionality, than did the Reynolds’
case, under the Cullom-Poland law; which de-
cision was confessedly outside the Constitu-
tion.’ ”
	The “perpetual emigration fund,” the ob-
jective point of this legislation, is, in the

[Column 2]
rictest ecclesiastical sense, a “religious fund,”
gathered in strict, voluntary obedience to the
divine law of tithing, as given by Moses: 
Consecrated by the sweat and tears and pray-
ers of the fanatics who earned and gave it for
the purpose of "gathering the faithful to
Zion."
	The Constitution says:  "Congress shall make
no law respecting an establishment of religion,
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
	This bill proposes to violate both ends of this
Constitutional prohibition. It not only pro-
poses to “prohibit the free exercise” of Mor-
monisin, but to "establish,” regulate and ad-
minister the ism.
	The Supreme Court will hardly say that
money—which is always and everywhere ortho-
dox—voluntarily gathered according to the
Mosaical law of tithing for religious uses, is
not “religion” in the constitutional sense.
	If this goes through, and the Supreme
Court sustains its constitutionality, what is to
hinder the Romanists of New York from go-
ing to Albany, in solid phalanx, where they
could hire cheap legislators enough to assist
them in passing a law, giving the State, thus
Romanised, the power to administer the funds
of Trinity Church corporation—which is no
more genuinely religious, nor honest, in its
holy purposes than is the Mormon emigration
fund—in the interest of the State, by Roman
Priests, appointed by a Romanised Governor?
What Rome could do in New York and
Louisiana, Methodit-ism and Baptist-ism could 
do in many of the other States.
	BALLARD S. DUNN,
Hotel St. George, Brooklyn, N. Y.


[Column 1]
		MORMON WOMEN.

	It is known to comparatively few people, 
perhaps, that there is a commission of Mormon
women from Utah in the city. They seek re-
dress for wrongs in the names of over 2,000
ladies who assembled at Salt Lake City in
mass meeting March 6, 1886, representing the
wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of the
whole territory. A Republican representative 
met the commission by appointment at the
headquarters on Grant place yesterday after
noon and confronted four well-favored agreea-
ble and intelligent women. Mrs. Emeline B.
Wells, the editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
published semi-monthly at Salt Lake City, 
seemed by common consent to be the chairman. 
Mrs. Wells is the plural wife of Gen. D. H. 
Wells, who was counsel to Brigham Young. 
Mrs. Wells was born a Puritan in Massa-
chusetts, but was converted with her mother
and went to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1884, and was
married in Salt Lake City in 1852. Dr. 
Ellen B. Ferguson was born at Cambridge, 
Eng.; was married in London, and came to
this country in 1875, in consequence of em-
bracing the Mormon faith in Illinois. Her
husband died in 1880, and both were Mormons, 
but were never in polygamy. Mrs. Emily S. 
Richards and Mrs. Josephine West were born
in the Mormon church of parents who lived 
in polygamy. They were young women, have
each been married several years, and have had
numerous children, and Mrs. West has an in-
fant with her. 
	In answer to a question concerning their
mission to the capital, Mrs. Wells said: 
	"Our mission to Washington at this present
time is to present memorials which we brought
ourselves, being properly accredited, for the
President, the senate, and the house. The
first was delivered to the Chief Magistrate on 
April 3, when we had an interview with him; 
that to the senate was presented by Mr. Blair
on the 6th. He was selected because he
voted against the Edmunds bill, and is b[--]ides
a woman's suffragist, and ex-Gov. Long, of
Massachusetts, who is a suff[-]agist also, had

[Column 2]
charge of the document for the house, which
has been referred to the judiciary com-
mittee. In the senate the memorial was allowed 
to lie on the table, and appeared in full in
The Record of April 7." 
	"Having presented your memorial, what do
you propose to do further in the matter?" 
	"We shall do all in our power to correct
the evil and sensational reports that are daily 
being disseminated among the people of the
east from the pulpit and by the press. We
have some books and pamphlets which we will
gladly give to inquirers, and we invite in-
vestigation, and are ready to answer ques-
tions." 
	"What is the condition of affairs in Utah
that compel you to make this protest?" 
	"The Edmunds law, which was passed in
1882," said Dr. Ferguson, "with a view of
prohibiting and doing away with polygamy,
has been the means of inflicting much suffer-
ing upon the people who do not come within 
the penal scope of the law, through the malad-
ministration of officials. As will be seen
from our memorial we complain that young 
children are brought into court and plied with
indecent questions; tender women in delicate
health are asked impertinent aud insulting
questions in court, and many of our leading
men and priests of Mormonism are driven into
hiding by the exactions of the officials. The
juries are composed of men known to be an-
tagonistic to Mormonism, and no Mormon is
permitted to sit upon juries. The men and
women living in polygamous marriage have
been disenfranchised, but monogamous Mor-
mons, men and womn, still vote. It is not 
true that the women vote at the dictation of
Mormon officials. The ballot is secret and no
one has any means of knowing how another
votes. The Gentile ring in Utah," continued
Dr. Ferguson, "is not making a crusade
against polygamy but is agitating matters and
moving for adverse legislation in order to get
the local and elective offices of the terri-
tory under their control. The elec-
tive and territorial offices are now all held
by Mormons. Should the ring succeed in dis-
enfranchising monogamous Mormons, although
greatly in the minority, they would manipu-
late territorial affairs, to suit themselves. All
we can do to foil the political conspirators is
to enlighten public sentiment on all that per-
tains to Mormons and Mormonism." 
	In reply to n question as to what made the
Church of the Latter-day Saints so fascinating 
to women, Mrs. Wells resumed. "We feel that
the doctrines are the truth, and feel like cling-
ing to them at any sacrifice. I know there is
more liberty for women in the Mormon Church
than in any other in the world. The women
vote not only upon all political questions, but
upon religious tenets as well. We believe in 
a pre-existence and future state of progression
and the discipline of plural marriage is a cor-
rective to supreme selfishness. The great wrong
congress is doing in enforcing the Edmunds
law is the breaking up of families, the ruin of 
hearts and homes, and disgracing the women
and making their children outcasts. 
	"Mormons believe that a man can love more
than one woman just as a mother's love is not 
confined to one child," said Mrs. Richards.
"My husband and I talked the matter all over
before marriage. We both came from parents
who lived in polygamy, but we were the chil-
dren of the first wives, and no Mormon
youth would marry a girl who was not a good
Mormon in all that the word implies. We
were born and brought up in the church, and
when we arrived at years of responsibility we
adopted the faith as our own. We have seen
the power given the saints; that the Lord
prospered them in temporal things as well as
in spiritual things."


Mrs. West is the daughter of an apostle of
the Church, and avers that if she had a score
of children would bring them all up to be
Latter-day Saints. She is enthuiastic about
the superior principles of her religion, and
says Mormons are not living for the present
only, but for the glory of eternity, and are
willing to make sacrifices here for the future
exaltation.—Washington National Republican.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Large charity doth never soil, but only
whitens soft white hands.
	Charities should be diffused. Grain will
not grow if piled in a heap; it must be
scattered.
	A bill of-fare book is a good thing. A
plain, strong blank book is what is needed.
Every day when the morning’s work is done,
sit down and write therein what you will have
for the next dinner, supper and breakfast. In
this way a pleasant variety and a better class
of cooking will be secured and all needed
preparations can be made methodically, in-
stead of a harum-scarum, hurried manner at
the last moment. This is good for all; but es-
pecially useful where a servant does the cook-
ing.
	“The Punishment of Children” was the sub-
ject of Prof. Felix Adler’s recent lecture be-
fore the Society of Ethical Culture, in Phila-
delphia. Professor Adler said:
	"Never punish a child in anger. Let the
anger burning within you subside. An angry
person is always liable to overshoot the mark—
can never be perfectly just. Whether corporal
punishment is ever admissible is an open
question. There are reasons outside of senti-
ment against it. Corporal punishment tends
to brutalize a child; it tends to make children
cowards and it blunts the sense of shame.”
	Many a tired housewife  thinks that when
she is able to keep help she will lie abed in the
morning till breakfast is ready and take it
easy. But when she gets help, and good
help, too, she will find that the work of the
household will not go to suit her,
unless she goes before it and through it and
all around it herself. If the mistresss
takes a long morning nap, the maid is
pretty likely to conclude that a morning’s
nap is nice for her, too; and the result is a de-
layed breakfast, spoiled in the hurry of cook-
ing, and a general disarrangement of the morn-
ing's work to follow. It may not be a restful
thought, but it is true, that if a mistress would
have a servant prompt, tidy, honest, and
thorough, she must herself set a worthy ex-
ample of all these qualities. She must be up be-
times in the morning to lead and plan and di-
rect the starting of the household machinery.
A company of soldiers won’t accomplish much
unless the captain rides at their head.—The
Housekeeper.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Alice Freeman, president of Wellesley
College, will be the essayist at the May meet-
ing of the R[--]nd Table Club. 
	Miss Catherine Craft, of New Jersey, in
celebrating recently her ninety-eighth birthday,
recalled the fact that she had voted for Jeffer-
son for President. 
	Astronomers predict that a bright comet
will be visible just before sunrise during the
latter part of May. It is the comet of 1886"
recently discovered by Professor Barnard. 
	Three women students of Indiana Medical
College attended the lectures during the en-


tire term, and it is anticipated that they will
be formally and regularly admitted next year.
	Miss Mary E. Bird, astronomer of Carlton
College, Northfield, Minn., is at the Minnesota
educational exhibit at the Exposition, in
charge of ten clocks illustrating the time sys-
tem.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A little borax put into the water in which scarlet napkins
and red-bordered towels are to be washed will prevent
them from fading.

	When making a new carpet, always save the ravelings
for use in darning the carpet on some future day, as the
colors will match better than any yarn you are likely to
find.	

	Sugar Cookies.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful o
butter, one cupful of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful o
baking powder, one nutmeg, flour enough to make a soft
batter, and a little salt.

	An excellent and simple disinfectant for sinks and waste
pipes is made by mixing one large tablespoonful of copperas
with one quart of boiling water. This solution is odorless,
and it deodorizes instantly.

	Turn lamp wicks down below the top of the tubes when
not lighted, and you will not be troubled with oil running
over on the outside of the lamps. If this caution is ob-
served, they may be kept clean and dry.

	To Make a Tough Fowl Tender.—The French have a
way of making a tough fowl tender in the roasting which is
worth following. It should be seasoned and tied up se-
curely in two thicknesses of soft white or pale brown paper,
and put into the oven half an hour earlier than the time
one would choose to assure its being done. It will steam
slowly in this way, and if delicately dredged with flour
when the paper is taken off at the end of the half hour in
a hot oven it will come out brown and easily carved. 

	Boiled Iceing.—The whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff
froth and two good sized cups of sugar, granulated pre-
ferred; pour enough water on the sugar to dissolve it, and
allow it to boil till quite thick syrup, then pour over the
whites, stirring briskly till cool. Spread on cake with a
knife previously dipped in cold water. This iceing will
not crackle when cut, and hardens in a few moments.

	Excellent Sponge Cake.—Four eggs, two cups of sugar,
two cups of flour, one cup of boiling water, two teaspoon-
fuls of yeast powder, and flavor to taste. Method: Beat
eggs and sugar to a froth,add a little at a time of the boiling
water, stirring briskly. Sift and add the first cup of flour,
put the yeast powder in the last cup of flour, sift twice to
thoroughly mix the powder; this makes a thin batter; bake
in a moderate oven. This is a good cake for dyspeptics.
	I have used the above recipes many times, and am
sure they are first class. 					M. C.


﻿OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Wanship, Summit Co., Utah, March 24th,
1885, Maria Horton, wife of Edward Horton,aged seventy-
two years. She was born at Batsall, Warwickshire, Eng-
land; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1851; emigrated to the United States in 1855;
came to Utah in 1860. She died in full faith of the Gos-
pel.


[Column 1]
F. Auerback & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] Agent for Rumsey's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country; promptly responded to.
[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 308, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[depiction of a domestic sewing table and machine in the middle with vertical text on the left and right]

[Left Column]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Right Column]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
	other Sewing Machine. It has been
	in the Market 23 Years.

	Young Brothers,
33 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

	Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

	AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found in the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

