[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 48 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
47 Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field The Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanist, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be in focus. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. Black and White Prints Required Black and white prints, preferably in glossy finish, are needed for Notes From the Field. Prints should be clear, with definite contrast and detail. Color pictures are not used in this section. Do not submit negatives, kodachromes, transparencies, or color prints. Size of Picture Through processes available at the press, pictures can be enlarged or reduced in size to fit the space available. However, reproductions of small pictures are not as effective as those made from larger prints up to 8x10 inches in size may be used. 48 stake organist. \ siden, Grand Junctio was ou e (Utah), Sixth Ward Relief Society ing?" May 1969 1 ref Society Pasadena Fashion Show, May 1,1 Relief Society Board, left to right: Helen Dalquist;; mine Ballard, President, Arlene Miller; Helen Jones, Sister Ballard reports: \ hand-fashion opened with children winding the Maypole. Beautiful spring ith a small Maypole table was centered W fashion show displaying their fashion show." ed dresses pe flowers ador and flowers. E\ a ions, an January 1970 South Carolina West Stake Presents ''Gardening Helps"' At Homemaking Day, June 28, 1969 Helen Shaw, President, South Carolina West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Frances Bethune, our homemaking leader, decided that it would be appropriate to have our Homemaking Day around gardening this year, and it was most successful. Our sisters must travel great distances, but they brought the materials for seven displays with them. "'We had a formal garden, patio, rock garden, vegetables, porch, a quiet nook in a garden, and an old-fashioned garden. In addition to these displays, the sisters were asked to bring floral arrangements for the luncheon tables, decorating around a red, white, and blue Independence Day theme, and we were amazed at the talent displayed here. It was a most successful event. The theme was appropriate ''Beautify Your Corner of America.'' North Central States Misson Relief Society Sponsors Leadership Conference, May 24, 1969 Members of the North Central States Mission Relief Society Board, front row, second from left: Colleen Johnson, Magazine representative; Jean Marie Didra, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary B. Ostvig, President; Margaret Ann Abbott, First Counselor; Carmen Lee Dahlgren, Second Counselor; Olga Hansen, visiting teacher message leader. Inset: Marguerite Satterfield, former Mission Relief Society supervisor. Remaining sisters are district executive officers. Sister Satterfield reports: ''Training sessions for the executive officers of the various districts in the mission are proving to be very successful and beneficial. They are held three times each year, and the districts are encouraged to hold them for their branch executives. "A different phase of leadership is discussed by each of the board members. There are. Group activities, and special inspirational words from priesthood leadership. It is a very successful program and has greatly advanced the work of Relief Society in the mission."'; Virginia B. King is the new Relief Society Supervisor in the North Central States Mission. SS care Pe a Se Illinois Stake Relief Society Presents ''Things Lovely'' April 5, 1969 Mary Dyson, visiting teacher message leader, Champaign Ward, and Esstel Flint, President, Farmer City Ward Relief Society. Marnette R. Woolley, President, Illinois Stake Relief Society, reports: ''At our leadership meeting in April we presented a program with the theme 'Things Lovely.' "A wide variety of items was shown including ceramics, afghans, quilts, needlepoint, and crewel embroidery. A special feature of the display was the oil paintings completed during a special class taught as a homemaking project in the Champaign Ward. Sister Claudia Peterson, an experienced art teacher, volunteered her services and each homemaking meeting those sisters interested spent the work time learning to oil paint. Other activities were always available for sisters not wishing to paint. This was a very popular activity, and some beautiful paintings were done. 'Refreshments were served by the stake board and a social hour followed. All who attended were inspired to create lovely things for their homes.'' 52 a ) *: 2 4S 

4 January 1970

 Western Canadian Mission Relief Society Holds Conference April 26, 1969 Members of the Regina Branch, South Saskatchewan District Relief Society, who modeled fashions they had made, front row, seated, left to right: Maisie Dodman; Beth Spackman, daughter of President N. Eldon Tanner; Mary Bailey; Velma Collins; Ruth Skriver. Back row, standing, left to right: Eileen Tondevold, Evelyn Pilling, Lettie Preete, Wanda Matheson, Gayla Jacobs, Pat Boecks, Gerry Wetton, eamie Ursenbach, Elena Morse, Elsie James, June Mullen. LaNore D. Espenschied, Supervisor, Western Canadian Misson Relief Society, reports: ''We held our first mission Relief Society conference, and it was very successful. The theme was 'Harmony in the Home,' and a copy of a talk by President David O. McKay, with this title was given to each sister. "Many of the sisters had to travel great distances to attend the conference. Members in Edmonton, Alberta, opened their homes to these sisters and their husbands who attended with them. It was an inspiration to see so many Lamanite sisters. There was an outstanding general session, and departmental sessions where there were films, demonstrations, and information. Following these there were displays and a fashion show in the cultural hall. "The conference was closed with the film 'Unto the Least of These,' and a very impressive testimony meeting. The sisters gained much uplift from this conference and had a very enjoyable time to remember." Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Honors Visiting Teachers May 15, 1969 Front row, seated: Cleotha Smith, Othello Ward, who has served twenty years as a visiting teacher; Lucy Christensen, Royal Ward, thirty years; Melinda Goodrich, Moses Lake Fourth Ward, twenty years; Nellie Chapman, Moses Lake Second Ward, thirty-two years; Mae Eaton, Moses Lake First, fifty-three years. Back row, left to right: Alta Duvall, Moses Lake Third Ward, forty-six years; Aurilla Christensen, Royal Ward (one of the two youngest visiting teachers); Rosemary Bishop, Moses Lake Ward (youngest visiting teacher); Fern Zirker, Warden Ward, twenty-eight years. Inset: Mabel Roylance, Othello Second Ward, fifty-five years service. Eileen S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A tribute to our visiting teachers was held in the stake center. A delicious luncheon was followed by a spiritual program in their honor. Special recognition was given to the sisters who had the longest record of service, also to the two youngest visiting teachers present. "The Moses Lake Third Ward was honored for having the most visiting teachers in attendance. They received a beautiful floral arrangement as a tribute." January 1970 a yg se BN is ARO ARLE Sell SER 8. NN Humbolt Stake (Nevada), Elko Second Ward Presents Bazaar May 2, 1969 Elaine Dicks, President, Humboit Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The emphasis of the bazaar presented in the Elko Second Ward was on good old Mormon cooking. There was much food to be bought and it was enjoyed by all. The theme was centered around the Maypole. There were several booths focused around the youth, from tiny tot to the teens. Our 'Olde Bake Shoppe' was popular also. A highly successful bazaar was made possible by the hard work of the many involved and the desire of ward members to contribute through purchases. Decoration chairman was Patricia Scott. The presidency of this ward consists of Joyce Giles, Edithdell Black, and Gwen Petersen."