Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE MARY References: Read Luke 1:26-56; 2:1-7; 2:41-52; John 2:111; 19:25-27. Which Mary, do you ask? There is but one to consider the Mary ? she who has the unique distinction of being the mother of God. Among womankind she stands absolutely alone, the envied and the adored. To this high privilege of hers, generations before her day looked forward to this great fact in her life, ; generations after her have looked back with reverent eyes, and blessed her name. What genuine woman would not give all she has to be so esteemed of men and of angels? Motherhood, to the Hebrew woman, meant more than it could possibly mean to the woman of any other nation whatsoever. And for this reason Besides the instinctive longing for maternity: that pulsates in the breast of every normal woman, the Jewish woman dwelt constantly in the thought, which grew into the hope, that she, of all the women of Israel, might become the mother of the Messiah ? of Him who was to strike off the yoke from the necks of the Jews and redeem the whole people. For throughout all the years, from the days of Sarah who "conceived in her old age" to the self-righteous Pharisee who twisted and misinterpreted the Scriptures, the prophecy later embodied in Isaiah's words, "Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, " and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is 'God with us,' was understood in a very literal sense by those to whom it was given. And Mary was the choice of the chosen, the blessed of the blessed The Latter-day Saints do not envelop Mary in the mist and remoteness that most others do in the Christian world. They do not pray to her as the intermediary between them and her glorious Son. On the contrary, they hold her in a high and substantial ? reverence a reverence that has its basis in an intelligent understanding of the great law of life and progress and that would be utterly impossible to a mind beclouded by the generally accepted notions of "the immaculate conception." : ; Mary's uniqueness, therefore, consists in the fact that her Child, in the words of Dr. Talmage, "was begotten of Elohim, the Eternal Father, not in violation of natural law but in accordance with a higher manifestation thereof." Nor should this idea shock one's sense of sanctity who has the conception of woman's function in life that he ought to have. Rather does it exalt her into companionship with the highest intelligences, and place sex relationship among the highest functions in individual life. The same angel who visited Zacharias appeared to her. But her attitude was different from that of the priest, for she said, after the announcement of the birth of Jesus: "Behold the handmaid of the Lord be it unto me according to thy word." After; this, as we know, she paid a visit to her cousin Elizabeth. On this occasion it was that she gave expression, as Luke tells us, to the "Magnificat," through which her spirit shines "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall; call me blessed. He that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. His mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He hath shown strength with his arm he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree. He hath filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy, as he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever." Her confinement took place at Bethlehem, although her home was at Nazareth. After the birth, when it appeared that Herod wished to kill the new-born King of the Jews, Joseph took his wife and the Child to Egypt. About two years later, when Herod was dead, the couple returned with Jesus to their home town. Here Mary lived, most probably, all the rest of her life, not counting her yearly visits to Jerusalem to attend the feasts of the Passover. It was on one of these visits that Mary and her husband missed Jesus and found Him later discoursing in the temple with "the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions." "And his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." And it was His mother that "kept all these sayings in her heart." We read of her again at the marriage at Cana. She tells her Son, who was at the feast, that all the wine was gone and later instructed the servants to do "whatsoever he saith unto you." After this, on one or two occasions, we find her evidently following the great Teacher, standing without the circle of people that generally surrounded Him. The last glimpse we get of her is at the cross, which must have been full of agony not only for Him 
 but for her. She and John were standing together. When Jesus saw them, He said to her, "Woman, behold thy son," referring doubtless to His disciple for immediately afterward He said to; John, "Behold thy mother." And the "disciple whom Jesus loved" took her to his own home "from that hour." QUESTIONS. 1. Give all the facts that you know of Mary in their order. 2. In what sense is the fatherhood of Jesus generally understood by Christians? 3. In what sense do the Latter-day Saints understand this matter? 4. Which satisfies your intelligence the better? Why? 5. Why should Mary be so highly regarded by Christian nations? 6. Why did Jewish women desire motherhood? 7.What are the reasons for desiring maternity today among the Latter-day Saints? 8. What do you think were the traits of character of Mary? (In answering this last question do not say what you do not have any authority for.)