
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1875.		NO. 1.﻿


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	NOBODY THINKS of giving the cardinal
less than $500 as a marriage fee.
	A ROMAN Journal "La Voce Della Verita,"
has been suspended for publishing the Pope's
recent address to the German pilgrims.
	FIVE NEW National Banks were author-
ized to commence business on the 17th inst.
in various places in New England, and one
in Alleghany City Pa.
	THE GOVERNOR of Missouri has appointed
Thursday, June 3rd, as a day of humiliation
of fasting and prayer on account of the 
grasshopper pestilence.
	IN ONE part of Norway, the longest day
is three months.  The Omaha Herald says
"what a splendid chance for a lazy man to
start a daily paper."
	ON MONDAY May 10th, a subscription
of $100,000 was raised in Burlington Iowa,
for the construction of the Burlington and
North Western narrow gauge railroad.
	A YOUNG lady of Cuzco the old capital of
the Incas has applied for permission to
study for the degree of Doctor of Laws and
the Peruvian Minister of Justice has replied
favorably.
	COUNCIL BLUFFS Iowa acknowledged by
a public demonstration and a torch light
procession, on the night of May 15, the late
decision of the U. S. Circuit Court declaring
that city to be the Eeastern terminus of the 
U.P.R.R.
	MR. CHARLES Bradlaugh will visit Amer-
ica again in October on another lecturing
tour. His two new lectures are "An Eng-
lishman's view of American Policies," and
"The Labor Question in the Old and New
Worlds."
	A PNEUMATIC tube is to be introduced
into the Palace Hotel at San Francisco to
convey letters and newspapers from the of-
fice to every floor above.  On each floor a 
box will be placed for the reception of let-
ters.  These will be shot down to the office
through the pneumatic tube.
	IN REPLY to an invitation to attend the
Centennial Celebration Gen. Garabaldi has
sent an autograph letter in which he says:
"I will certainly make every possible effort
to have my country participate in the mag-
nificent celebration which is to be held in
Philadelphia. I deeply regret I am not
able to come myself."
	THE BODY of a woman which had been
buried eighteen months in Westfield Mass.
was recently exhumed. On opening the
coffin the corpse was turned over, the hands
were stretched in the hair of the head and
her burial clothing was nearly torn in 
shreds.  There can be little doubt that she
was buried alive and must have suffered
untold agonies.—Boston Transcript.
	MRS. A. J. Dunniway's letter to the
Woman's Journal published May 8th, shows
how the cause of "Woman" is progressing
in Oregon, notwithstanding the opposition.
Thank God for all help towards the social,
mental and religious elevation of woman.
Mrs. Dunniway says she wishes they had
more workers, I would say the same in be-
half of Utah.

[Column 2]
	TERRIBLE DESTRUCTIVE fires have been
raging in the East within the last few days,
the loss in Cincinnati, Ohio and in some parts
of Penn. is enormous.  The town of Osceo-
la in Penn. is said to be entirely destroy-
ed, its inhabitants renderd homeless. The
fire has also seriously damaged the railroad
for some distance.
	THE BOSTON Pilot and some other papers
which are anxious to herald forth their con-
tempt for women have published an extract
from the speech of Mr. Leatham M. P. for
Huddersfield, in which he makes the asser-
tion the Queen has been dragged into the
woman question, and explains she is ruled
by the advice of her Ministers, and he
thanks God they are men not women.
	A CURIOUS record has recently been found
at Pompeii.  It was scratched on the stucco
of a kitchen wall, and has been thus trans-
lated "Lighted the fire, cooked his meals,
and swept his house for him 28,000 times,
and he refuses to take me to the circus."
Beneath this in a different hand is written.
"Women are never satisfied."
	THE SIAMESE gentry will probably have
the privilege taken from them which allow-
ed them to pawn their wife and children
into slavery in payments of debts contracted
by gambling or opium-smoking. Mrs. Dean,
wife of the Rev. Dr. Dean of Siam present-
ed a petition praying for the abrogation of this
law, to the young King which was favora-
bly received.  It was signed by most of the
European ladies at Bangkok.
	MISS ALTA M. Heulett attorny at law in
Chicago, is remarkable for her success in the
profession she is only 20 yrs. of age and has
a practice worth $4,000 a year.  She deliv-
ered the oration last year on the occasion of
the laying of the corner stone of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.  She may justly be
proud of her ability and influence.  It is
anticipared she will visit California this
summer and lecture in San Francisco and
other places.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	A YOUNG married man at Rockland, Me.,
became jealous of his wife at an entertain-
ment, and told her on reaching home that
he intended to commit suicide, and was told
to go ahead.  He accordingly procured a
rope, and making due preparation, swung
himself off, calculating, however, that he
would be cut down in season to save his life,
the alarm was given, and the neighbors
hastened to the rescue, but before a knife
could be found to cut him down, the luck-
less wight was black in the face and near-
ly dead.  He is getting over the consequen-
ces, and think's it dosen't pay to run so
much risk for the pleasure of frightening
his better half.
	A FLORIDA man has several "Indian
mounds" upon his land, one of which he
recently opened, and found that it contain-
ed skeletons of men, some of which were
nine feet in length, and from their peculiar
shaped faces he judged that they must have
belonged to a race beyond the memory of
man. He also found arrows of peculiar con-
struction, tipped with some metal resem-

[Column 2]
bling nichel, besides other treasures that he
is not disposed to reveal just yet.  The Pa-
latka Herald says: "There was an old tra-
dition among the Seminoles that Florida
had been inhabited by a civilized or semi-
civilized race, and that they were mostly
artisans, although great in war, and they
had amassed great treasures which were al-
ways buried with them."
	A CORRESPONDENT of the Concord Moni-
tor says that a physcian in that city who
was attending a sick musician during con-
valescence suggested to the latter that it
would be agreeable to hear a little music
during his visits.  The musician fell in with
the suggestion and frequently regaled the
doctor with the concord of sweet sounds.
Time sped rapidly away, and the day ar-
rived for presentation of that little bill for
medical attendance, which amounted to
about $100.  The bill was presented, but the
physician was surprised and disgusted by the
presentation of the following counter charg-
es, which he was ultimately compelled to al-
low: For playing "Oft in the Stilly night,"
six variations, $10; "Sweet Home," three
variations, $5; "German Waltz," one varia-
tion, $2; "Yankee Doodle," six variations,
$10; "Last Rose of Summer," six variations,
$10; solo, "Arkansas Traveler," six varia-
tions, $10; solo, six burlesque variations on
"Pop Goes the Weasel," $10; "Sweet Al-
len," .50; "New Century Hornpipe," .50;
"New Country Hornpipe," .50; "Fisher's
Hornpipe," .50. Total $59.
	IN the business street of an enterprising
village, not many miles from here, an obsti-
nate horse stopped, the other day, contrary
to the driver's wishes and despite sundry
desperate demonstrations on his part. The
society with the long name did not appear,
but a hackney-coachman with a barrel hoop,
a butcher's boy clutching a piece of board,
a stable-keeper with a tremendous whip,
and three burly hostlers armed with smaller
whips, gave the poor animal what Paddy
gave the drum.  But he wouldn't budge an
inch. Then they twisted his tail, fastened
a string around one of his legs, put dirt in
his mouth, stuck a stick in his ear, and a
numerous sidewalk committee, with the
usual officiousness, suggested a hot iron,
sawing his mouth with a rope and various
other ways of diverting the attention of a
balky horse—all without avail. The lean
charger was warranted to stand—and he
did stand a vast amount of pounding, kick-
ing and jerking. At the end of a half hour,
profanity, and cruelty, were below par, and
the matter wore a serious aspect, when a
good-natured Irish woman made her way
through the crowd with a pailfull of swill,
which she held to the mouth of the much
abused creature, with a kindly "Be after
takin' a bite of that, me honey?"  The 
horse sniffed wonderingly at the offal, and 
in the next moment was trotting down town
at a fearful rate. Only another infallible
means of starting a balky horse—that's all.


A LITTLE American lad who had just
commenced reading the papers, asked his
father if the word "Hon." prefixed to the 
name of a member of Congress meant "hon-
est."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
A PRAYER OF THE HEART.

Why am I so weak, and weary
Of life's warfare here on earth?
Why do charms that once allured me,
Fill my heart no more with mirth?
I have proved them to be fleeting,
Oh how vain they seem to me!
When I think of joys eternal
That will never cease to be.

Who has cheered my heart in sorrow?
Who has dried my falling tears?
Gently whispering of to-morrow
When would cease my "guilty fears."
When in days of tribulation,
When my soul was in despair,
Doubting e'en of my salvation,
Who then heard His servants prayer?

Who burst the clouds of darkness round me,
And gave hope beyond the grave,
Peace and comfort to surround me,
If I unto truth would cleave?
It was Jesus my Redeemer;
Who came here on earth to die,
That we might receive salvation
With the pure and good on high.

Father! hear my voice I pray thee
Give me grace to persevere;
That my faith may never fail me
While I am a pilgrim here.
Teach my loved ones that true lesson
Which was taught to me in youth;
To seek first for lasting treasures
Rich with gems of precious truth.

Teach me how to guide my children
In the straight and narrow way,
How to shun the snares of Satan,
Set to lead us all astray.
Spare me till my work is finished;
Grant me wisdom day by day
That my soul may be replenished
With a light of heavenly ray.

Then when through with this probation,
And my soul has been released,
I may meet my angel children
With my parents 'mong the blessed;
And be welcomed to the mansion
Which may be prepared for me
To receive an exaltation
With the glorified and free.
							H. M. W.
March 31st, 1875


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation held at the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms May 15th, 1875, was a par-
ticulary pleasant and interesting one. A
handsome wreath made of hair and nicely
framed, was presented by Miss E. R. Snow
to the President Mrs. M. I. Horne. Each
of the young lady secretaries had contribu-
ted a lock of their hair for the arranging of
the wreath, their names were also inscribed,
and it was addressed to the President as a
tribute of respect. To her it was entirely
unexpected, and it was with some difficulty
she could control her feelings sufficiently, to
return them her thauks and blessing. Coun-
selor E. R. Snow gave an entertaining dis-
cription of the Old Folks Excursion.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney made some suggestive
tive remarks in regard to the yonng ladies
engaging in the studies of medecine and
surgery; and the lectures which were to be
given on their account. The other speak-
ers were Mrs. S. A. Whitney, Mrs. R. R.
Grant and Mrs. Watmough each of them
seemingly inspired with the Spirit of the
Lord, prompting them to dwell upon the
subjects brought before the meeting by the
President and her counselors.
	HYRUM CACHE Co. May 15th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society under the Presidency
of Mrs. Christina Liljenquist held our Sev-
enth Annuel Meeting on the 10th inst. at
ten o’clock a. m.
[Column 2]
	On the stand were the brethren J. Wil-
son, C. C. Shaw and P. Christiansen.
	After singing and prayer, the meeting
was addressed by Counselor Mrs. Johnson,
upon the necessity of union and the respon-
sibilities of mothers. Mrs Stanley and Mrs.
Barnum spoke mostly upon the subject of
using good langauge. President Mrs. Lil-
jenquist thanked the sisters for decorating
the house for the occasion, gave some good
counsel and instruction—exhorted the young
ladies to use their influence to do away with
round dancing, and asked the Lord to bless
them.  The brethren then addressed
the meeting encouragingly; after which
Elder C. C. Shaw read an address to the 
Retrenchment Society by Miss E. R. Snow.
meeting then adjourned.
	At 2 p. m. the Society met at Elder P.
Christiansen's and partook of a sumptuous
dinner, and in the evening all that desired
attended a ball in the hall, and enjoyed
themselves in the dance.
	We are doing all in our power to sustain
home manufacture; we have sent two young
ladies to Brigham City to learn braiding,
millinery &c., and we hope with our own
exertions and the means we have on hand,
to build a house for the society, and to es-
tablish a school for the young ladies to
learn to make hats, bonnets and many of
the articles we are now importing.
	Our report shows we have paid $38, to
missionaries in St. George, $21 to the P. E.
Fund made two quilts the last year, besides
other articles, and ministered to the wants of
the poor. We have now in the Treasury $100.
We meet every two weeks to work and to 
transact all necessary business, also to im-
prove and comfort each other. We appre-
ciate your valuable paper and wish you suc-
cess.
	Your friend and well-wisher,
			NANCY M. NEILSON, Secretary.
		HARRISVILLE May 16th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society at Harrisville held
their Annual Meeting May 6th, 1875. It
was well attended, the speaking encourag-
ing and strengthening to those present.
	We have not accumulated as much means
as some societies, yet we let no one suffer
in our midst. All the society are willing
to give as much as they are able. We have,
at different times appropriated means to-
wards such purposes as are for the benefit
and building up of the kingdom of God.
	The health of our President Mrs. Melissa
Shirtliff has improved since our last report.
We have a good presidency ahd are progress-
ing gradually. Those who take the EXPO-
NENT appreciate its value.
	Yours Truly,
		MARY E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
	Minutes of The Organization Meeting of
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Associa-
tion of Cedar Fort held in the Meeting
house April 21st, 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing "Oh God, the
God that rules on high"—Prayer by Brother
Samuel Wilcox—Singing "Sweetly may
the blessed spirit—
	Miss E. R. Snow by request of Mrs. So-
phronia Cook, who presided, addressed the 
large audience, saying she was pleased to
see so many of the brethren manifest an
interest by being present on this occasion—
That in the Church and Kingdom of God
the interests of men and women are the
same; man has no interests separate from
that of women, however it may be in the
outside world, our interests are all united.
She was happy to see so many of the young
men—as a mother in Israel she felt that she
had a right to talk to them a little. She
spoke of the first organization of the young
[Column 3]
ladies—said it was introduced by revelation
from God &c. Gave some account of the
manner in which it was opposed; and even
by parents, who could see no necessity, for
young people to educate themselves in the
religion of Jesus. That parents only need-
ed this spiritual exercise. Said she was
truly thankful to see that some of the young
ladies of this place were brave enough to
manifest a wish to enter into an organiza-
tion.  She mentioned people calling on her
from the settlements, and saying that no
retrenchment was needed with them, they
were not extravagant in dress &c.—Then
she asked them if they had no ignorance to
retrench from, no uncouth manners, no evil
practices, notning at variance with the
spirit of the Gospel &c. which called forth 
responses, in favor of retrenchment organi-
zations, from their opponents. She referred
to the spiritual education of children early
in the church; saying that we had grown in-
to Sectarianism, so far as some of the gifts of
the gospel were concerned—young people
knew nothing of them, only by report.
Said she was in favor of book-learning but
that all the book-learning in the world,
would not qualify them to become Queens
and Priestesses in the courts above. It re-
quired a spiritual culture and education.
She suggested to the young gentlemen that
they move forward; lay hold of spiritual and
mental inprovement, and take the lead of
the young ladies. She urged them to re-
spect themselves too highly to submit to the
adulterating habits of the world, in the use
of tobacco and liquors. That they should
not defile their bodies, (which should be fit
temples for the Holy Ghost) with those
forbidden things. She expressed her be-
lief that the filthy ue of tobacco, so adul-
terated the stomach, and so destroyed the
natural powers of the digestive organs, as
to create an unnatural hankering for strong
drink, and lead to drunkenness. With
many other instructive remarks; after which
by request of the Prest. of the meeting she
proceeded to organize the society. Twenty-
six young ladies were admitted as members
by unanimous vote.
	Elder Samuel Wilcox, having been invi-
ted by President Mrs. Cook expressed his
sanction of what had been said, was thank-
ful for the move being made, and for every
movement for the good of Zion—said that
the cultivation of the young, on whom great
responsibility would soon devolve; was one
of the most important things, with other
words of instruction and encouragment.
	An Anthem was aung by the choir
Benediction by Brother Robert Parker.
		MELINDA COOK, Secretary.
			LEHI, May 20th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:
	On April the 23rd, we had a pleasant vis-
it from Miss Eliza R. Snow, and Mrs. M. S.
Snow. Held a meeting in the Tabernacle
at 2 o’clock p. m. Sister E. R. Snow gave
some good instructions to the sisters, speak-
ing plainly of their duties as members of
the Relief Society, and showing the differ-
ence there would be in the future in the
positions of those who had attended to their
duties and magnified their calling, to those
who had neglected to do so; urged upon the
sisters the necessity of stepping forward
and helping to establish HOME INDUSTRIES;
said that President Young had made a spe-
cial call to the Relief Societies to assist in
this matter.
	A meeting was appointed for the evening


inviting all to attend, and with the permis-
sion of Bishop Evans. Miss E. R. Snow
would organize the young ladies.
	In the evening according to appointment
meeting opened in the usual way; after
which Mrs. Rebecca Standring was appoint-
ed secretary pro tem.
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke of the object of
these organizations, and referred to the
time when President Young requested her
to organize the young ladies in Salt Lake
City. Spoke with pleasure of the steady ad-
vancement of those who had stood firm to
their integrity from the first. Said it was
the privilege of the young to have a know-
ledge of the Gospel and enjoy its blessings
as well as their parents, and by uniting in
an association they would gain wisdom and
knowledge, and lay the foundation for fu-
ture usefulness in the kingdom of God.
Encouraged them to lay aside and retrench
from everything displeasing in the sight of
God and His servants and be determined to
live to the Lord; improving themselves in
all things, that they might become refined
and cultivated daughters of Zion, settng
an example before the young men worthy
of imitation.
	Said to the young brethren, it was their
place to lead, but inasmuch as they had not
done so in this matter, she hoped they
would follow, and improve the the good op-
portunity they now had to store their minds
with useful knowledge, and get a testimony
of the truth of this work for themselves
and not wait until they were sent on missions
to preach, for if they did they would not
only experience mortification themselves,
but disappoint others who were looking to
them as Elders of Israel from Zion, for in-
telligence they could not impart.
	The organization by unanimous vote
were:
	Miss Orinda Davis, President,
		"Barbara Evans,
		"Sarah Teryusson,
		"Sarah Wardles,
	Mrs. Lizzie Barns,			Counselors.
	Miss Sarah E. Wardles,
		"Lizzie Smith,
		"Sarah Taylor, Secretary,
		"Christie Gadly, Assistant Secretary.
	Seventy-nine young ladies were admit-
ted as members by unanimous vote.
	Miss E. R. Snow then spoke with great
power and earnestnes,s blessed the young la-
dies and asked God to bless them and in-
spire them to do right. She was followed
by Bishop Evans, who expressed his pleas-
ure in the movement, and his willingness
to organize the young gentlemen simi-
larly Mrs. Mary S. Snow made some re-
marks exhorting the young sisters to im-
prove their privileges.
	Meeting adjourned. Benediction by El-
der Isreal Evans.
		REBECCA STANDRING, Secy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BONDITCH on taxation published in pam-
phlet form is a book which should be care-
fully read and pondered upon by men and
women. He cites official report made by
the Mass. Legation in 1871. Showing that
women paid one-eleventh part of the entire
property tax in that year. He has written
boldly and and ably in defense of women;
and he deserves the highest praise for the
firm stand he has taken. He takes for the
basis of his arguments the Declaration of
Rights adopted by Mass. in 1770 and
proves conclusively that women were not
only included in the word "People" but in
the word "Men."


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN THE PRINTING OFFICE.

	Reference has been made to the Declara-
tion of Independence; printers may not
know the fact, but even that important doc-
ument was originally printed by a lady,
Mary Catharine Goddard. There were wo-
men in those days. To print that immortal
State paper in the  year 1777 was to run the
risk of losing one's head.
	Miss Goddard was a sister of William
Goddard, the first printer in Providence, R.
I. He also published the Maryland Journal
in Baltimore in the early part of the Revo-
lution. When Benjamin Franklin became
Postmaster-General after Congress had su-
perseded the British government, he ap-
pointed Goddard Comptroller and Surveyor
of Post Roads. While he was thus engaged
in public matters, his sister conducted the
affairs of the printing house with marked
ability, being able to personally perform the
duties of a thorough printer, while remain-
ing clear-sighted, orderly and energetic in
her management of the business.
	Anne Franklin entered the printing office
in 1632. Her husband, James Franklin,
(brother of Benjamin) established himself in
Newport, R. I., in that year, but he died
soon after, and his widow carried on the
business successfully for many years. She
became "Printer to the Colony," and pub-
lished pamphlets, supplied the public offices
with blanks of all kinds, and also carried
on a general publishing business. The New-
port Mercury, now regularly issued, grew
out of this printing office in 1756, and is,
with one exception, the oldest newspaper
in the country. In 1755 Mrs. Franklin
printed for the government an edition of
the "Laws," containing 340 pages, consider-
able of an undertaking for a woman in those
days.
	Mrs. Cornelia Bradford, wife of Andrew
Bradford, was among the first of our wo-
men printers. She carried on the business
with great energy for many years after the
death of her husband, which took place in
1742. The Bradfords, both husband and
wife, stood among the best of the early
printers of Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Hassebotch wife of Nicholas Hasse-
botch, the first printer of Baltimore. She
succeeded to his business at once, and prose-
cuted it with talent and energy. The fol-
lowing anecdote is related in connection
with one of her most important publica-
tions: "In 1773, a missionary had a Bible
in his hand, explaining to a party of Indi-
ans. He pronounced it to be 'the Gospel,
the Truth, the Word of God' 'What!' said
one of them; 'did the Great All-powerful
make this work?' 'Yes,' replied the mis-
sionary, 'it's his work.' The Indian, tak-
ing the literal import of the words, an-
swered indignantly, 'I believe it to be a
great lie. I go to Baltimore last month
when I see Dutch woman make him; the
Great Spirit want no Dutchman help him.'"
	Mrs. H. Boyle published a paper at Wil-
liamsburg, Virginia, in 1774. It favored
the Crown, and lived but a short time. Mrs.
Boyle was a good printer, however, and fully
understood her business.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Timothee, after the death
of her husband in 1773, continued publish-
ing the Gazette in Charleston, S. C. She
conducted it for two years, when, her son be-
coming of age, she passed it over to him.
	From all accounts, the early women prin-
ters in the United States were as remarka-
ble as journalists, as in the more mechani-
cal work of publishing. In all the records
of those days, it is in no instance hinted
that the newspapers were not fully as well

[Column 2]
edited and as energetically published by
women as by men.
	Mrs. Mary Holt, widow of John Holt, was
publisher of the New York Journal in 1793
a paper which had already been conducted
by a woman printer and journalist, Mrs. Zen-
ger, forty-five years before. This publica-
tion performed marked services for the rev-
olutionary cause, and as a reward, the pub-
lisher, Mrs. Holt, was appointed printer to
the State of New York, the only woman re-
corded as ever having filled this office.
	Last mentioned, but not least in merit and
reputation, is Mrs. Jane Atkin. This lady,
at the death of her father in Boston in 1802,
continued his business with a talent and in-
dustry remarkable even among women of
the revolutionary period. Her fame was
high from the excellent character and abil-
ity of the productions issued from her press.
She was also noted as a thorough printer and
a severe and accurate proof reader.
	Mention should perhaps be made of Mar-
garet Draper, of Boston, as she conducted
unaided, the Boston News Letter, the first
regular newspaper published in America.
She was not one of the Republican women,
however, and when the British evacuated
Boston she went to England, where she re-
ceived a pension from the government.
	In the light of these facts, now matters of
history, let us not claim for this decade the
honor of having introduced women into the
printing office. Women opened for them-
selves this extensive and worthy field of
labor, and the success which has always at-
tended their efforts is the best proof of their
capacity as printers, publishers, and journ-
alists.—Rowell's Newspaper Reporter.


PART OF A LETTER.

	A letter written by Mrs. H. C. Young who
has been visiting in the Eastern States, and
addressed to Miss E. R. Snow of this city
contains some interesting paragraphs and
gives one some idea of our relative position
to the world at the present time. After ex-
pressing her pleasure in hearing of the pros-
perity of the home societies, she goes on to
explain some things as they exist there:
said it was becoming a serious question,
what to do with the surplus of women; they
are not usually educated to any employ-
ment that will command a living.
	She alludes to the rapid spread of Catho-
licism and infidelity and says many who
believe in religion are ashamed to own it.
	Many inquire of her concerning our faith,
and some believe it, but are trammeled in
some way and cannot free themselves.
	In regard to dress she says her male rela-
tives say, it is refreshing to see a plainly
dressed woman again, and think there is
hope their wives and daughters may return
to their senses. Her neices wished to make
her some new dresses, but when she spoke
of having them almost entirely plain, they
were not so anxious. She realized in ming-
ling with the world, the true value of our
most holy religion, and the freedom it gives
to our sex. She met several people who
were well acquainted with Joseph Smith,
H. C. Kimball, and others, and many who
have friends in Utah.
	She made many inquiries concerning
silk-worms &c. Cleanliness seems one es-
sential requisite in regard to them; even 
one's hands must be very clean, they are
dainty little creatures; onions are poisonous
to them either to handle or to eat them
so they can smell your breath, and they re-
quire keeping in a light place.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time. $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. JUNE 1, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			PERSONAL.
	Jeaquin Miller is in England busy on a
novel of California life......Victor Hugo has
left Paris for Guernsey to complete a new
volume of poems, title “Les France et Les
Germains......Gen. Redington died at the
Grand Hotel, San Francisco, May 22nd......
Mark Twain is said to make $700 a week on
his play of the "Gilded Age"......Clarence
Bowen, son of Henry C. Bowen, is writing
his impressions of the Pacific coast to the
Independent......Herr De Suert, a violincel-
list of great skill, has just made a success-
ful debut in London......Mr. Boucicault is
said to have made $20,000 during one
month's performance in Boston.........Mrs.
Senator Sumner is about to be married......
Dudley Baxter died in London May 21st.....
Ex U. S. Senator Jesse D. Bright is dead.....
Judge James Paul of the Supreme Court of
the state of West Virginia died May 11th
......Cadet C. S. Hall was thrown from his
horse, at West Point, and fatally injured.....
John Sheridan, father of Gen. Sheridan,
died  recently at his residence at Somerset,
Ohio......Ex-Governor Hoffman will spend
the summer at the United States Hotel,
Saratoga......Mr. Godlove S. Orth, the new
American Minister has reached Vienna......
Mr. John M. Francis, editor of the Troy
Times and ex-Minister to Greece, sailed for
Europe on the 27th of May with his wife
......Mrs. Conway, the popular lessee of the
Brooklyn Theatre, is dead.........Vice-Presi-
dent Wilson was in Denver May 22nd......
Co. T. W. Sims, business manager of the
Savannah Advertiser, Ga., committed sui-
cide in San Francisco May 25th; he had ar-
rived there recently from N. Y. City.
			FOREIGN.
	Froude, the historian, sailed from London
for South Africa on the 23rd of May in his
official capacity......The Tribunal have dis-
missed the charges against Duchesne for
the alleged plot and assassination against
Prince Bismarck......There are rumors in
London of the early resignation of Disraeli
The Italian government has ordered the re-
moval of all Bishops who have not received
royal endorsement.........Ex-Queen Amelia,
widow of the late King Otho of Greece,
died at Munich, May 20th......A Genoese
Marchioness has recently made a donation
to the Pope of $20,000 a year......The Bank
of England's rate of discount is 3 3/8 per cent
......The Italian Senate has voted a national
gift to Garibaldi......Many more bodies of
the victims of the Schiller disaster have
been recovered; also twenty-four mail bags
have been brought ashore......Count Corti,
Italian Minister at Washington, has been
transferred to Constantinople......The Pope
is reported to be seriously ill.........A large
portion of the city of Peshauer, Afghanis-
tan, has recently been destroyed by fire......
The trial of Count Von Arnim has been fixed
for July 1st......The Japanese portion of the
island of Saghalien has been ceded to Rus-
sia......A meeting of the three Emperors of
Russia, Germany and Austria will shortly
take place at Ems......The House of Com-
mons adjourned over Wednesday, May 26th,
for the Derby races.....Attempts to frighten
Bismarck still continue.......The Spanish
government has suspended a Madrid news-
paper, the Imparciale......On Sunday follow-
ing holy week a bull fight took place at Ma-
drid, Spain; there were 16,000 persons
crowded into the amphitheatre; King Al-
phonso XII was present.
			GENERAL.
	The Iowa Republicans will hold their state
convention at Des Moines on June 30th.......

[Column 2]
Boston votes $30,000 to the Bunker Hill
centennial......The opening of Lake Cham-
plain this season was the latest for sixty
tears......Harper and brothers are about to
issue another chronicle of the religious re-
vival abroad, entitled "The Work of God in
Great Britaint......May 22nd, Albany, N.
Y., both houses of the Legislature ad-
journed sine die......The officers for the Cen-
tennial Exposition have been elected.........
Gen. Custar's expedition to the Black Hills
will leave Fort Lincoln June 1st.....A move-
ment for revenue reform has been com-
menced by the prominent importers of New
York......Santa Rosa is to have a separate
school for colored children......A young lady
presented Cardinal McClosky a diamond
cross worth $20,000.....Prof. Wm. Crookes
has made one of the greatest discoveries in
regard to light since spectram analysis......
Lieut. Col Emery Upton has been relieved
from duty as commander at West Point and
Lieut. Col. Thomas H. Neill succeeds him
—Daniel Webster's library is soon to be
sold at auction in Boston......Red Cloud,
Spotted Tail and several other Sioux Indian
Chiefs are in Washington, negotiating in
regard to the Black Hills......Col. J. H.
Britton (Dem.) has been elected Mayor of
St. Louis, vice Arthur B. Barrett, deceased,
by 615 majority......Ex-Senator Cassely and
family are stopping at San Rafael this sum-
mer......The shipment of wool from Califor-
nia to the East is immense......Mrs. Oates
commences a season at Pipe's Opera House,
Nevada, May 31st.......Joseph Jefferson is
playing a farewell engagement at the Boston
Theatre, previous to going to Europe......
Detective Wood, from Boston, arrested Jack-
son, the Boston defaulter, at Heesville, N.
Y., May 26th......In Hartford, Conn., May
26th, the cotton mills of D. B. Smith were
burned, 200 hands thrown out of employ-
ment; loss  $100,000; insurance $40,000......
A terrific explosion of Dow's drug store,
Washington St., Boston, took place May 26th;
several persons killed, others injured, and
great destruction to property; cause un-
known.


THREE YEAR'S OLD.

	To-day the EXPONENT enters its fourth year.
Upon the supposition that its friends will be
glad to learn concerning its welfare, we cheer-
fully submit the following.
	If at present our journal is not strengthened
by as large an amount of money in the treas-
ury as those immediately connected with its
interests could desire, it is perhaps, as well off
in this respect as many of its flourishing neigh-
bors. And it has more certain capital than
even ready money, indispensable as that arti-
cle is to progression.
	It has for its credentials the good wishes and
faith of wise men and women who favor and
seek the promotion of all useful enterprises.


For its upholders it has willing and earnest
workers whose hopes for its future, supported
as they are by evidences of the past, are bright,
and who consider its prospects full of promise.
	If our kind patrons are satisfied with our ef-
forts, let each consider, as one sister has writ-
ten, that the best way of expressing apprecia-
tion for WOMAN'S EXPONENT is by now sub-
scribing for volume four.


WHITHER ARE WE DRIFTING

We live in deeds, not years—in thoughts not breaths—
In feelings, not in figures on a dial;
We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives,
Who thinks most—feels the noblest—acts the best.
	Whither is our course bent on the great
ocean of time, have we some goal in view
which we are concentrating all our forces and
energies to reach, and are we carefully and dili-
gently husbanding all our resources to attain
without danger or detriment to ourselves, this
desirable object? Have we entered upon this
course understandingly, and chosen for our pi-
lot, one who will warn us of any obstruction in
our way; who is aware of all the reefs and
quicksands which might wreck us at any mo-
ment when we were sailing smoothly along on
a calm sea, for the clear placid smiling surface
sometimes covers the most dangerous depths,
and is so inviting to the mariner that all un-
conscious of the hidden rocks or shoals, in a
moment of seeming security the bark goes
down or is dashed to pieces, and often a surge
forms from some scarcely preceptible cause and
foaming and rushing headlong in its course
bears down the frail bark, or even the more
solid structures, and in a moment of time they
are swallowed up in the unfathomable deep.
	Is it not expedient then to be on our guard,
and to thoroughly understand ourselves and
train every faculty we possess in such careful-
ness and exactitude as to be able to compete
with every obstacle in our pathway, and to be
continually guided by the Holy Spirit the Com-
forter which cannot err?
	It is the only safe pilot, the whispering in
our hearts, the true instinct of immortality,
which will guide us safely whatever our cir-
cumstances may be; it is a solace for every
sorrow; a hope in every hour of darkness to
light our souls, a stay and an anchor which
will hold us firmly through the stormiest pas-
sage upon life's sea; if we will listen to the gen-
tle whisperings which it is ever ready to impart
to those who yield themselves wholy to its
heavenly influence. It is only by living
pure and true lives that we can be thus shield-
ed; we must first submit ourselves to the dic-
tates of the Gospel of Jesus, and obey the
principles of the kingdom of God, become like
little children, in humility and meekness, ere
we can partake of the rich blessings which
flow from the fountain of life and intelligence
to all who are prepared to receive them.
	It will not do to drift about carelessly, merely
seeking the gratification of idle wishes, at the
caprice of every momentary whim, floating
down the great stream of time, and regardless
of the dangers which beset us, expect to land
in a safe harbor; without thought, without cal-
culation, without any settled purpose, not hav-
ing qualified ourselves with the requisite cred-
entials. Would any rational being possessed
of sound sense and judgment, expect to go
to a foreign country, among people totally un-
known, without making the most careful ar-
rangements, and being positive they had a
passport which would be undeniable in its ac-
curacy, and would identify them among the
people with whom they expected to associate?
And yet we, many of us endowed with intel-


ligence and possessing almost unlimited advan-
tages for qualifying ourselves for a higher ex-
istence and calling, move on from day to day
scarcely casting a thought beyond the position
we occupy here, satisfied if we obtain some
trifling pleasure, sometimes forgetting our
Heavenly Father, whose hand supplies all our
needs, and without whose aid and assistance
we could not exist for one brief moment.
	Has the great Creator given us such gifts of
mind, such perfect bodies, so capable of action,
so wonderfully formed, to be the sport of acci-
dent, controlled only by circumstances? Are
we not the arbiters of our own fate? Assur-
edly we are individual agents, to do, to be, and
to become, whatever it is possible for us to ac-
complish; if we aim high, and our courage
equals our resolves, we may attain unlimited
excellence. Our Savior whose life is given for
our example; went about doing good; He lived
not to aggrandize himself, not for the happi-
ness of one, but for all the world of mankind;
His actions and words were replete with innate
purity, with the most unlimited charity for the
faults and weaknesses of humanity. He ex-
tended to the poor and the erring the most gen-
uine sympathy; yet he exacted strict obedience
to the laws of heaven. If we would be truly
followers of Jesus let us be watchful of our own
hearts, and seek diligently to become wholly
submissive to the guidance of the Holy Spirit
which He has promised us, and which will
teach us our duty to ourselves, to our children,
to our co-workers: in the great plan of salva-
tion, and above all our duty to Him to whom
we owe all. 						B. B


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN.

	Although a fortnight has elapsed since the
excursion so skillfully planned for the "old
folks" of this city, was happily consummated,
the subject is still not devoid of interest; for the
event was one long to be remembered.
	It was a beautiful thought suggested to Bro.
C. R. Savage, and first communicated to
brother John W. Young—President of the
Utah Northern and Utah Western Rail Roads.
The latter gentleman immediately acceded to
the proposition of the former, to "give some of
the aged Saints, 'the Lords aristocracy' a ride
on the cars." Accordingly, the famous excur-
sion to Lake Point was arranged, with Bishop
Edward Hunter, George Goddard and Charles
R. Savage as committee.
	One hundred and eighty men and women,
each over sixty, whose average age was seven-
ty-two, were brought together at the depot on
the morning appointed, May fourteenth. And
with these, all comfortably seated in cars for a
ride on the Utah Western Railway, was a suffi-
cient number of blind, lame and halt, together
with nurses and help for some of the infirm
and the very aged, to make up a company of
sixty-four under sixty years of age; in all; two
hundred and forty-four persons;
	Sunday school excursions, school picnics and
young peoples' festivals of various kinds, are
of such frequent occurrence as to excite but or-
dinary interest on general occasions. But a
day devoted to the aged, for their especial
amusement and enjoyment, has something of
originality in it.
	Charles Dicken's said:
		"There is nothing on earth half so holy
		As the heart of an innocent child?"
	But we say, if there is anything on earth 
that can compare with pure and lovely child-
hood, certainly it is ripe, beautiful old age.
The sweetness and freshness of the first guile-
less childhood is only equaled by the sublimity
of the second.


Therefore, to one passing from youth to mid-
dle age, a day thus spent in the society of the
"old folks," is not dissimilar to a day spent with
the children; save that in the former case, the
words spoken, the care bestowed, the assistance
rendered and the sympathies indulged, all
arise from feelings of holy reverence instead of
a reciprocity in innocent delight and merri-
ment.
	The ride on the cars both going and return-
ing, the sail on the lake, the grateful rests and
soul-reviving interviews beneath the roof of
Dr. Clinton's commodious house, were all char-
acterized by a full flow of the serene and holy
influence ever peculiar to old age after well-
spent, useful days of youth, and middle age.
It was indeed a joyous day, a day of feasting,
a day never to be forgotton. Surely the com-
mittee must realize much satisfaction in con-
templating the perfect success with which their
efforts were crowned.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	SPECIAL MEETING of two days will be held
in Mill Creek Ward, Saturday and Sunday,
June 5th and 6th, and at West Jordan June
12th and 13th.
	MONDAY EVENING May 31st, the pupils of
St. Marks school gave an entertainment in the
Theatre which was highly creditable and en-
joyable.
	A FEW persons interested in the silk culture,
are about organizing a society in this Territory
the object being to diffuse information on the
subject, to encourage the raising of cocoons
and the manufacture of ribbons &c.
	MR. FABIAN'S lecture on Dickens at Inde-
pendence Hall May 27th, was well attended
by an appreciative audience. Mr. Fabian was
a friend and school-fellow of Dickens and well
acquainted with his literary career.
	THE NEW Tabernacle was opened for the
first time since conference, Sunday May 16th,
Elder John Taylor addressed the congregation.
May 23rd, Elder Orson Pratt occupied the
stand. Many strangers were present upon each
occasion and gave particular attention.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young and George A.
Smith, Apostles Taylor and Carrington and
some other elders visited Provo and held a
meeting there May 23rd, which was numer-
ously attended, and an excellent spirit prevail-
ed. A special train brought them home the
same evening.
	MISS DELLIE Clawson received her first ben-
efit Saturday evening with an attractive pro-
gramme, a number of the popular and profess-
ional artists and some young Misses volunteer-
ed their services on the occasion. She is a great
favorite with the public and her popularity has
been justly earned.
	AT AMERICAN Fork, June 1st, there will be
a grand Jubilee in honor of the birthbay of
President Brigham Young, the children from
all parts of Utah county are to participate in
the entertainment. Special arrangements have
been made to convey a limited number of
children from this city.
	ON SUNDAY, the 23rd ult., while a number of
children were crossing City Creek, a little above
President Young's saw-mill, a little girl seven
years old, named Emma Hammer, fell in and
was carried down by the swift current. A
gentleman being near and hearing the child
scream succeeded in rescuing her; when taken
out she was insensible but was subsequently
resuscitated.

[Column 2]
	DECORATION DAY was observed at Camp
Douglas with military display. Officers of the
Territory and citizens of Salt Lake City were
cordially invited to participate. The proces-
sion formed at the Court House and proceeded
in line to Camp Douglas where they were
greeted with a national salute after which
there were exercises at the cemetry all of which
had been previously arranged by a committee
—they were then dismissed on the ground.
The day following was observed as a general
holiday.
	THERE WILL be a grand musical entertain-
ment at the Theatre Jane 3rd, under the lead-
ership of Mr. George Careless. The Oratorio
of the Messsiah will be rendered by a large
number of ladies and gentlemen who have
been engaged in practising with a view to this
entertainment for some months past. Lovers
of music and all interested in musical talents
will enjoy this the most carefully trained and
highly finished choir of voices which Salt Lake
has ever produced.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN Havanna for $475 you can purchase a
thousand oranges.
	PARIS has 1,500,000 French men and 420,
000 foreigners.
	ENGLAND imports 550 tons of ivory an-
nually, of which she retains for home con-
sumption 270 tons.
	THE amount voted by Parliament for de-
fraying the expenses of the British Arctic
expedition this year is £98,620.
	THE INCREASE of specie in the Bank of
France has been very considerable; re-
cently in one week the increase amounted
to sixteen million frances.
	DURING April the aggregate losses by
fires throughout the United States and
Canada amounted to $10,178,400, aggregate
losses to insurance companies $5,476,400.
	For male teachers in Rhode Island the
average salary is $83 per month, female
teachers $43 the ratio of male to female
teachers is one to four.
	THERE are in Boston 7,214 women tax-
payers whose aggregate taxes alone, annu-
ally amount to $1,296,693 and these very
women are not allowed the privilege of
suffrage.
	IT is asserted by President Abbot of the
Michigan Agricultural College, that forty-
two per cent of the living graduates of that
institution, are engaged in farming or gar-
dening pursuits.
	THE issue of postage stamps of all kinds
by the post-office department during April
amounts to a little over $2,000,000 an in-
crease of about 20 per cent on the corres-
ponding month of last year.
	AN Illinois jury has given a verdict of
25,000 against W. J. Story editor of the 
"Chicago Times" for the publication of an
article assailing the character of Alice A.
Early of Rockford.
	IN Illinois the highest salary paid to male
teachers is $300 per month; to female teach-
ers $220 per month; the ratio of male to fe-
male teachers is 3 to 7.  In Mass. the aver-
age salary per month for men is $94.34, to
women $34.34, the ratio of male to female
teachers is 1 to 8.


Without a rich heart wealth is an ugly
beggar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿TO MY MOTHER.

As water to the parched ground,
As gurgling brook in desert found,
As beacon light to sailor's eyes,
As grasps the hand a long-sought prize,
As meet dear friends who've parted long,
As moves the heart a gentle song:
This is a mother's love to me—
A rich, a heaven-sent legacy.

The acme of impartial love,
The portraiture of that above:
The affection drawn from nature's well,
The love that doth all love excel--
Spontaneous warms a mother's breast,
And ever shines, what'er the test;
Evincing watchful, tender care,
To shield its hope from every snare,

This, kind mother, sweet and mild,
A tribute from thy youngest child.

								SELEC. ED.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomatoes.—After stewing them a few minutes
and just before dishing them, add a little flour and
sweet cream, pepper salt and butter as in other
dishes.  Another good way to prepare tomatoes is
to slice them rather thickly, salt pepper and roll in
flour, then fry brown in butter, kept a boiling heat
all the time.
	American Yorkshire Pudding.—When scraps of
bread and meat have accumulated, instead of mak-
ing "hash," chop the meat finely, soften the bread
with boiling water, mix the two ingredients to-
gether add an egg or two some salt pepper and
sage. Bake in an ordinary pan; thus you save all,
and have a dish superior to "hash."
	Lettuce.—Gather some nice heads of lettuce ten-
der and crisp; wash and cut in quarters or shreds;
to a proportionate quantity of cream add a small
bit of butter and pepper and salt, heat this to a boil-
ing point and pour over the lettuce covering it for a
few moments.  This dish is said to be a good sub-
stitute for green peas before they are in season.
	Preparing Coffee.—Put the gronnd coffee to
soak over night in enough cold water to wet it all,
in the morning add more water; put it over the fire
and let it boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then fill
in what boiling water is necessary, and put the cof-
fee-pot on the stove-hearth to settle for fifteen min-
utes.  Coffee thus prepared will be clear and am-
ber-colored, and if left over will heat again better
than if settled with eggs.
	Cucumber Pickles.—Pick and wash the cucum-
bers of not more than three days growth, pack in a
keg or jar in close layers, over each layer, place a
layer of salt in which alum has been well mixed,
say a tablespoonful to each pint of salt; do not add
any water.  When wanted for use freshen them.
Scald in strong vinegar spiced to the taste. Drain
the pickles dry and cover with fresh vinegar add-
ing to each pint of the vinegar a tablespoonful of
sugar. The vinegar which is first poured over
them will inbibe too much of the salt to be agreea-
ble to the taste, and will lose much of its strength
while the fresh vinegar poured over them al-
ready sour, with the addition of the sugar, will
preserve them in full strength.


[First column]
		﻿HYGIENIC NOTES.
	SICK HEAD ACHE Is sickness at stom-
ach, a tendency to vomit, combined with 
pain in some part of the head, generally the
left side. It is caused by there being too
much bile in the system, from the fact that
this bile is manufactured too rapidly, or is
not worked out of the system fast enough
by steady, active exercise. Hence sedentary
persons, those who do not walk about a great
deal, but are seated in the house nearly all
the time, are almost exclusively the victims
of this distressing malady. It usually be-
[Column 2]
gins soon after waking up in the morning,
and lasts a day or two or more. There are
many causes; the most frequent is, derange-
ment of the stomach by late and hearty sup-
pers; by eating too soon after a regular
meal, (five hours should, at least, intervene;)
eating without an appetite; forcing food;
eating after one is conscious of having had
enough; eating too much of any favorite
dish; eating something which the stomach
can not digest, or sour stomach. Any of 
these things may induce sick head-ache;
all of them can be avoided. Over-fatigue or;
great mental emotion of any kind, or se-
vere mental application, have brought on
sick head-ache, of the most distressing char-
acter, in an hour; it is caused by indulgence
in spirituous liquors. When a person has
sick head-ache, there is no appetite; the
very sight of food is hateful; the tongue is
furred; the feet and hands are cold, and
there is a feeling of universal discomfort,
with an utter indisposition to do anything
whatever. A glass of warm water, into
which has been rapidly stirred a heaping
tea-spoon each of salt and kitchen mustard,
by causing instantaneous vomiting, empties
the stomach of the bile or undigested sour
food, and a grateful relief is often experi-
enced on the spot; and rest, with a few hours
of sound, refreshing sleep, completes the 
cure, especially if the principal part of the
next day or two is spent in mental diversion
and out-door activities, not eating an atom
of food (but drinking freely of cold water
or hot teas) until you feel as if a piece of
plain, cold bread and butter would "taste
really good." Nine cases in ten the cause of
sick head-ache is in the fact, that the stom-
ach was not able to digest the food last in-
troduced into it, either from it being un-
suitable, or excessive in quantity. When
the stomach is weak, a spoonful of the mild-
est blandest food would cause an attack of
sick head-ache, when ten times the amount
might have been taken in health, not only
with impunity but with positive advantage.
	Those who are "subject to sick head ache"
cat too much and exercise too little, and
have cold feet and constipation. A diet of
cold bread and butter, and ripe fruits or 
berries, with moderate continuous exercise
in the open air, sufficient to keep up a very
gentle perspiration, would, of themselves,
cure almost every case within thirty-six
hours. Two teaspoonfuls of pulverized
charcoal, stirred in half a glass of water, and
drank, generally gives instant relief.
	RHEUMATISM Affects the joints, the
hinges of the body, in such a way, that the
slightest motion of the ailing part gives
pain. A creaking hinge is dry, and turns
hard. A single drop of oil to moisten it
makes a wonderful change, and it instantly
moves on itself with the utmost facility.
Rheumatism is an inflammation of the sur-
face of the joints. Inflammation is heat; this
heat dries these surfaces; hence, the very
slightest effort at motion gives piercing
pain. In a healthy condition of the parts,
nature is constantly throwing out a lubrica-
ting oil, which keeps the joints in a per-
fectly smooth and easy-working condition.
Rhematism is almost always caused—in-
deed, it may be nearer the truth to say,
that it is always the result of a cold damp-
ness. A dry cold, or a warm dampness, does
not induce rheumatism. A garment, wet-
ted by perspiration or rain, or water in an-
other form, about a joint, and allowed to dry
while the person is in a state of rest, is the
most common way of causing rheumatism.
A partial wetting of a garment is more apt
to induce an attack than if the entire cloth-
ing were wetted; because, in the latter case,
[Column 3]
it would be certainly and speedily ex-
changed for dry garments. The very mo-
ment a garment is wetted in whole or in
part, change it, or keep in motion suffi-
cient to maintain a very slight perspiration;
until the clothing is perfectly dried.
	The failure to wear woolen flannel next
the skin, is the most frequent cause of rheu-
matism; for a common muslin or linen or
silk shirt on a person in a perspiration, be
comes damp and cold the instant a puff of
air strikes it, even in mid-summer. This is
not the case when woolen flannel is worn
next the skin.
	This troublesome affection is cured by
keeping the joint affected wound around
with several folds of woolen flannel; second,
live entirely on the lightest kinds of food,
such as coarse breads, ripe fruits, berries,
boiled turnips, stewed apples, and the like.
If such things were eaten to the extent of
keeping the system freely open, and exer-
cise were taken, so that a slight moisture
should be on the surface of the skin all the
time; or if, in bed, the same thing were ac-
complished by hot teas and plentiful bed-
clothing, a grateful relief and an ultimate
cure will very certainly result in a reasona-
bly short time. Without these, the disease
will continue to torture for weeks and
months and years.
	Inflammatory rheumatism may, for all prac-
tical purposes, be regarded as an aggravated
form of the common kind, extended to all
the joints of the body instead of implicat-
ing only one or two. For all kinds, time,
flannel, warmth, with a light cooling diet,
are the great remedies.
	AIR, SUNSHINE AND HEALTH.—A New
York merchant noticed, in the progress of
years, that each successive book-keeper lost
his health, and finally died of consumption,
however vigorous and robust he was on en-
tering his service. At length it occurred to
him that the little rear-room where
the books were kept opened in a back-
yard, so surrounded by high walls,
that no sunshine came into it from one year's
end to another. An upper room, well light-
ed, was immediately prepared, and his
clerks had uniform good health ever after.
	A French lady became ill. The most em-
inent physicians of her time were called in,
but failed to restore her. At length Dupey-
tren, the Napoleon of physic, was consulted.
He noticed that she lived in a dim room, in-
to which the sun never shone; the house be-
ing situated in one of the narrow streets, or
rather lanes of Paris. He at once ordered
more airy and cheerful apartments, and
"all her complaints vanished."
	From these facts, which cannot be disput-
ed, the most common mind should conclude
that cellars, and rooms on the northern side
of buildings, or apartments into which the 
sun does not immediately shine, should nev-
er be occupied as family-rooms or chambers
or as libraries or "studies." Such apart-
ments are only fit for "storage," or purpos-
es which never require persons to remain
in them over a few minutes at a time. And
every intelligent and humane parent will
arrange that the family-room and the cham-
bers shall be the most commodious, lightest
and brightest apartments in his dwelling.
—Hall's Journal of Health.


THERE is seldom a line of glory written
upon a man's face but a line of suffering
runs parallel with it; and they that read the
lustrous syllables of the one, and stop not
to decipher the spotted and worn inscription
of the other, get the lesser half of the lesson
earth has to give.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	PRINCESS Louise is President of the Na-
tional Society for the improvement of the
education of women.
	GOV. Bagley and the senate of Michigan
have confirmed the appointment by renomi-
nation of Mrs. Harriet A. Tenney as State
Librarian for two years.
	MRS. Jonathan Sturgis of New York has
been elected President of a Woman's Board
of Foreign Missions just organized by the
Dutch Reformed Church.
	HARRIET Hosmer will send to the Cen-
tennial Exhibition a set of golden doors.
An English Gentleman allowed her to du-
plicate them for that purpose.
	MRS. Emma B. Ryder of San Francisco
received the gold medal, of the New York
Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital,
for the best clinical report of lectures.
	THE Empress of Japan has decided on the
erection of a college for young girls, who
will become teachers, she has contributed
liberally from her own private purse to aid
in the expense of its construction.
	MRS. Carter of Washington a well-known
elocutionist, gave an entertainment to the
convicts in the State Prison at Charleston,
Mass. Wednesday evening May fifth.
	MRS. Emily Huntington Miller has writ-
ten a story-lecture entitled "The Parish of
Fair Haven."  It is said to be in great de-
mand in church lecture-courses just now.
	A MISS Ethridge of Maine, who was em-
ployed as a book keeper, was lately found
dead in a manner which indicated that her
death had been the result, of a freak of 
somnambulism.
	MRS. Ames, widow of Joseph Ames,
the distinguished painter, has herself
won distinction as a sculptor.  She has
long been noted in this country for her
beauty of character and person, her wit,
and unusual mimetic genius.
	MRS. Lincoln, widow of Ex-President
Lincoln has been adjudged insane by a jury
in the county court, and the evidence of a
number of physicians, as well as some other
corroborative testimony.  She has been ta-
ken to a private asylum at Batavia, Illinois.
	A COMPLIMENTARY reception was given
to Mrs. Caroline M. Severance at the rooms
of the New England Woman's Club, No 3,
Fremont Place, Boston, Apr. 24th, 1875.
Celebrated men have long been the recipi-
ents of complimentary honors, but it is only
recently that women have received any pub-
lic recognition of their services.  We would
heartily endorse the sentiment, "Honor to
whom honor is due, regardless of sex.


THE following youthful exactness comes
from a friend in Hingham, Mass., where it
recently occurred: An exhibition was given
there by Tom Thumb, at which the prices
were twenty-five cents for those ten years
of age, and twelve and a half for those un-
der. It was Johnny's tenth birthday, and
his cousin May aged thirteen thought
it her duty to celebrate it by taking him in
the afternoon to see the dwarf. Arriving at
the door she put down thirty-eight cents
and asked for two tickets. "How old is the
boy," asked the ticket seller. "Well," re-
plied Miss May, "this is his tenth birthday;
but he was not born till late in the after-
noon." The vender of tickets accepted the
accuracy of the averment, and handed her
the proper certficates of admission.


﻿USEFULNESS.

	An Essay read before the Young Ladies'
Society of the the 13th Ward.
	It has been long the habit of the world to
look upon woman as a being fitted espec-
ially for adornment.  Upon this name have
the epithets of grace, fragility and beauty
been bestowed, instead of those express-
ions that give us the idea of more solid
merit.  Many women, no doubt care only to
please and shine.  Their lives are made up
of superficial things that fail to make of the 
mind a treasure house. In seeking to make
the person attractive, one should not forget
to make the character solid.
	In the many comparisons that have been
made of man and woman, it has been as-
sumed that he is the foundation and walls
of the building and she—the pictures to
adorn the walls.  The opinions of society
may have made woman think that her un-
dertakings must be necessarially small, but
it has not yet been proven that she is not
mentally capable of performing labors which
require the most determined perseverance
and earnest thought.
	Is it not greatly the fault of women them-
selves that they have been stigmatized as
weak and incapable?
	They are too fond of amusement and ad-
miration; pleasure, to many seems to be the
chief aim.
	Their education is sadly at fault. In-
stead of reading history they read novels;
instead of going to lectures, they go to the 
theatre and instead of learning science,
they learn to play on the piano.
	Understanding as we do that our spirits
came from another world and took up bod-
ies on this for the purpose of experience and
improvement, it is the duty of us all, to
make our lives rich in good works. It
grieves the spirit of our Heavenly Father
for us to spend our time solely upon our-
selves.  Each young lady may ask her-
self, "How can I be useful? I see nothing
particular to do." Begin with asking God
to give you intelligence concerning the
needs of your own soul; to bless you with a 
willingness to sacrifice self-love for the love
of usefulness, and you will discover powers
within yourselves of which you have never
dreamed.						F.S.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		HARRISVILLE, May 16, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of inability that I en-
deavor to write a few lines to mingle my
voice with others of my sisters in promot-
ing the cause of truth: I can think of much
that is good, but how difficult to put it on
paper; I greatly appreciate the EXPONNET
for the instruction it contains and most es-
pecially the wise counsel how to guide our
children aright, for it is a constant fear to
me that I shall not do my duty by them. I
consider the Lord has placed a great re-
sponsibility upon me in giving me children;
therefore it is my daily prayer for wisdom
that I may do a mother's part in teaching,
instructing and governing them aright. I
see many times where I fall short of my
duty to them, but I can see where I am im-
proving, in reflecting upon what I have
read in the EXPONENT concerning these
duties, also many more useful things. I
know this work is true for myself, for the
Lord has been mindful of me and mine in
sickness, and answered my prayers many
times, and healed my children when nigh
unto death, for which I give the praise un-
to Him, the Giver of all good. I have a


good husband who is faithful in doing his
duty both to his family and to his God, for
which I am truly thankful.  I think we are
the most blest women now on the earth. I 
will close by saying may God bless our paper
and those who labor to make it truly val-
uable.
	Yours in all good work,
							M. T. 

		HARRISVILLE May 18th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Your much valued paper is received and
read with much pleasure by my subscribers;
there are but  few of them; the sisters join
together and take the paper; there are many
more read the paper than there are that
subscribe yet they are all subscribers.
	I wish the little girls and even grown up
and aged women were as interested in it as
my little subscriber Lovisa G. Harris, she is 
eleven years old, she dries peaches and sells
them for the money; and this is the way
she pays for her paper. 
							S. J. T.


For the EXPONENT.
		WOMAN'S MISSION.

	What is it? How often is this question
asked, and how often most elaborately dis-
cussed, and yet without coming to any defi-
nite understanding or final decision. Wo-
man's Congress, Woman's Clubs, and Wo-
man's Assocaations of various kinds are all
extensively treating upon this subject and
the ultimate issue of this important ques-
tion.  That Woman's Mission is a Home
Mission all mankind affirm, and seemingly
they understand it, in the strictest sense of
the word, to mean the fireside, the parlor,
and the kitchen; that a woman's influence
is always needed there is verily true, but
does that define the complete circle of her
work?  Can she not exert an extended in-
fluence in many ways without confining
herself to these prescribed boundaries?
Must she being a wife and a mother, neces-
sarially restrain all aspirations, for any fur-
ther development, and only live again, or
for the future through her husband and her
children? I can see no other solution to
this question than merging her own indi-
viduality into that of those whose interest
and welfare she is so exclusively serving.
	That every woman has an individual life,
as well as every man, I am bold to affirm
that she herself is responsible to God and to
the world equally with man, also, (even
though she be so fortunate as to secure a
husband) and is woman not held responsi-
ble in this wise and progressive age, for the
conduct, the morality and the social, men-
tal and spiritual education of her children?
If they err, then she has failed in some nice
point of distinction to comprehend her
whole duty, this is the verdict of the world;
women are not only made answerable for
their own faults but for those of future gen-
erations.
	Consequently holding such important
positions as regards the destiny of future
races, their education and advantages should
be the most superior it is possible to obtain.
	That men withold this from women is not
helping but hindering the advancement of
all that is most desirable, and eventually
they will find that public opinion is not to
be relied upon when it asserts:
	"He for God only, she for God in Him."
	May 14th, 1875.
							EMILE.


What animals are often seen at funerals?
Black kids."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	A doughmestic difficulty—heavy bread.
	The lawyers are coming out with spring suits.
	The latest thing in front door locks—night keys.
	What is everybody doing at the same time?—
growing old.
	A man who had been married twice to ladies
both named Catherine, advised his friends against
taking dupli-dates.
	An exchange says that while many people do
not like the Spring freshets, the bridges are quite
carried away with them.
	"C-c-c-can that p-p-p-parrot talk?" asked a
stuttering man of a German. "Ven he don't talk
so gooter as you, I schop his head off."
	"What a shame that I should be starving!" ex-
claimed a poor corset-maker out of work—"I have
stayed the stomachs of hundreds."
	"A young man charged with being lazy was asked
if he took it from his father, "I think not," was 
the reply. "Father's got all the laziness he ever
had."
	A Kansas gentleman has thoughtfully put his
front gate in the parlor, so that his daughter and
her young man can swing on it without taking cold
during the cold weather.
	Tom Hood speaks of a bird's building its nest
upon a ledge over the door of a doctor's office, as
an attempt to rear its young in the very jaws of
death.
	Apropos of the kissing discussion, here is Oli-
ver Wendell Holmes' definition of a kiss: "The
twenty-seventh letter of the alphabet—the love-la-
bial which it takes two to speak plainly."
	Teacher—"Who was the first man?" Head
scholar—"Washington; he was the first in war, first
in—" Teacher—"No, no; Adam was the first
man." Head scholar—"Oh, if you are talking of 
foreigners, I s'pose he was."
	Said a man to the mayor of London, whom he
met at the State fair, "I have seen beets in Cali-
fornia as big as I am." "I beg your pardon."
said the mayor, "but I think that you deceive
yourself."
	"Now, John; don't you think a women writes
more satisfactory letters than a man?" "Certain-
ly, my dear.  It is far more satisfactory to re-
ceive a letter from a woman than a man."  The
fond wife muses, and concludes that it is her mis-
sion to watch the mail.
	"My dear friend," said a gentleman to a bank-
rupt, the other day, "I am sorry to hear of your
misfortune. "Your family has my warmest sym-
pathies." "O don't trouble yourself about my
family. I looked out for them, you bet! Just save
your sympathies for the families of my creditors!"
	A sudden gust of wind took a parasol from the
hand of its owner, and a lively Irishman, dropping
his hod of bricks, caught the parachute. "Faith,
ma'am," said he, "if you were as strong as you
are handsome, it would not have got away from
you." "Which shall I thank you for first, the
service or the compliment?" asked the lady, smil-
ingly. "Troth, ma'am," said Pat, again touching
the place where once stood the brim of what was
once a beaver, "that look of your beautiful eye
thanked me for both."


NOTHING on earth can smile but a human
being. Gems may flash reflected light, but
what is a diamond flash compared with an
eye-flash and mirth-flash? A face that can-
not smile is like a bud that cannot blossom,
and dries upon the stalk. Laughter is  day,
and sobriety is night, and a smile is the
twilight that hovers gently between both,
and more bewitching than either.


FLOWERS.

	THE readiest and best way to find out
what future duty will be, is to do present
duty.
	THERE is a transcendent power in exam-
ple. We reform others unconsciously when
we walk uprightly.
	WHENEVER a man is ashamed of his re-
ligion, whatever it is, it is pretty certain
that he has but little of it.
	BLESSED be the hand that prepares a
pleasure for a child, for there is no saying
when and where it may bloom forth.
	TO all men, and at all times, the best
friend is virtue; and the best companions
are high endeavors and honorable senti-
ments.
	TRUE—It is a Chinese maxim, that for
every man who does not work, and for every
woman that is idle, somebody must suffer
cold and hunger.
	WE are among the number who look upon
sympathy as a cardinal virtue. Whoever
lacks this glorious trait in his character we
care not  to form his acquaintance.
	HE who is ashamed of the poor in the
presence of the rich, and of the unknown
in the presence of the famed, may be a base
enemy, but never a faithful friend.—Lava-
ter.
	THE soul that does good to others, grows
in goodness.  He that is a medium of bless-
ing to others is blessed himself thereby.
Hence, selfishness is folly as well as sin; for
while it prevents our doing good to others,
in the same degree it prevents our doing
good to ourself.
	HE who, in speaking of another, depicts
him in odious colors—who does not see, that
it is his own portrait which he draws?  Let us
judge of the sensibility of those whom we
wound in their most tender part, by our
own, and learn to forbear speaking evil of
others.
	WHO ARE RICH?—The man with good,
firm health is rich.
	So is the man with a clear conscience.
	So is the parent of vigorous children.
	So is the editor of a good paper with a big
subscription list.
	So is the child who goes to sleep with a
kiss on his lips, and for whose waking a
blessing waits.
	So is the maiden whose horizon is not
bounded by the coming man, but who has a
purpose in life, whether she meets him or
not.
	So is the young man, who, laying his
hand on his heart, can say,  "I have treated
every woman I ever met, as I should wish
my sister treated by other men."


FASHIONABLE RECIPE.
	Here is Lucy Hooper's recipe for dress-
ing a fashionable lady:
	"Take a young woman and turn her once
in a breadth of satin, twice in a gauze scarf,
and three times in a puff of tulle, add twen-
ty yards of flowery garlands wherewith to
season the whole.  The dish is then trussed
up, but has yet not sufficient dressing.
Something heavy in the shape of a train is
needed.  It may be made of metalassee,
with raised flowers, or brocade. Skewer it
on well behind, and garnish with gauze
butterflies, lace birds, or gilt beetles.  Keep
very warm at the base and very cool at the
top. Remove the dressing as much as pos-


sible from the upper part and pile it on be-
low.  Season with diamonds and serve up
warm."


Friendship Real.—Some true heart
has given expression to his generous na
ture in the following beautiful sentiments:
"Never desert a friend when enemies
gather around him.  When sickness falls
on the heart, when the world is dark and
cheerless, is the time to try a true friend.
They who turn from a scene of distress be-
tray their hypocrisy and prove that interest
moves them.  If you have a friend that
loves you, studies your interest and happi-
ness, be sure and sustain him in adversity.
Let him feel that his former kindness is ap-
preciated, and that his love is not thrown
away.  Real fidelity may be rare, but it ex-
ists in the heart.  Who has not seen and 
felt its power?  They deny its worth who
never loved a friend, or labored to make a
friend happy."


EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H.E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE and RETAIL FUR-
		NITURE DEALER,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
	WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 AND 79, First South Street.
			CLUB RATES.
	Deteremined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	-	-  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getter up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former,  as 
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1875.		No. 2.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A PROSPECTUS has been issued of a daily
morning newspaper, to be published in San
Francisco, and called the "San Francisco
Democrat," devoted to current news, and
the interests of the democratic party.
	THE "OVERLAND Monthly" for June,
closes the fourteenth volume. It is steadily
improving and always contains interesting
and valuable articles.  Its writers are through
its columns, establishing a successful literary
reputation.
	THE JUNE number of "Harper's Maga-
zine" commenced the fifty first volume of 
this popular and interesting work. It de-
servedly occupies a place in the highest
rank of American Literature, its circulation
is larger than all others of its class com-
bined. Its contributors are all persons of
superior intellectual, and educational attain-
ments.
	DORA DARAMORE'S "Golden Dawn" has en-
tered upon its second volume. Journals
devoted to the interests of women, and con-
ducted wholly by them, are springing up
among the cultivated and thoughtful of our
sex; not aspiring to usurp or infringe upon
the rights of men, but honorably and effi-
ciently to maintain and dignify our own.
	MRS. S. R. WELLS, widow of Professor
Wells lately deceased, has announced her
intention of carrying on the business her
husband had so firmly and judiciously es-
tablished.  We heartily commend her wise
policy, and while we would condole with
her in the irreparable loss she has sustained,
we also wish her the success and patronage
she so truly deserves.
	MISS MINNIE Conway of Brooklyn, will
take the place prominently occupied by her
mother, (now deceased) in the management
of the Theatre. Mrs. Bateman of London,
has also resolved to assume the manage-
ment of the Theatre left by her husband.
These are certainly women of energy and
determination, and there can be no doubt,
they will feel far happier than in sitting
down and repining, at the Providence of
God.
	MISS ANNIE Dickinson delivered an ad-
dress before the National Temperance Con-
vention in Chicago June 3rd, in which she
asserted that crusaders and temperance
meetings have had very little effect in
checking the evil of intemperance; that po-
litical organization and influence would be
the only sure means. It was resolved that
the convention, request the next Congress
to prohibit the manufacture and sale of all
alcoholic spirits within the boundaries of
the United States; and use their united in-
fluence to bring about this most desirable
change in the American Republic.
	MRS. CAROLINE M. Severance ex-Presi-
dent of the New England Woman's Club
with her husband and a party of friends,
visited our city on her route to California.
This noble and accomplished woman has for
many years been an efficient writer, speak-
er and worker in woman's cause; she deserv-
edly merits all the high enconiums of praise
that are lavished upon her from all sides,
[Column 2]
where woman's talents are being recognized.
She expressed herself pleased with, and in-
terested in the improvement in our beauti-
ful city, and was gratified to learn that we
were so successfully advancing in the inter-
ests of education, and general cultivation.
She manifested the most sincere apprecia-
tion of our efforts in Journalism, commend-
ed our course enthusiastically and wished
us unbounded success. She is certainly one
of the most attractive and highly cultivated
women we have ever met, and we shall re-
member with much pleasure her words of
encouragement. In her tour through the
city she was accompanied by Mrs. Varnall,
of Washington, a lady of considerable cel-
ebrity, who is also interested in Women's
Work.


[For the EXPONENT]
	EXCURSION TO LAKE POINT.

	The beautiful spring weather which we
are enjoying, together with the innumera-
ble facilities for amusement which our city
and its suburbs contain, seem to invite at
present the patronage of those who love
innocent enjoyment.  Lake Point seems to
be the favorite resort, and excursions and
picnics to that place are of frequent occur-
rence.
	On Monday the 31st ult. another grand
excursion party of two hundred and fifty
persons under the supervision of P. S.
Horne and O. F. Whitney took the Utah
Western train and rode across the country
to Clinton's; where they arrived soon after
9 o'clock. Immediately afterwards the
party boarded the fine steamer belonging to
Mr. Jno. W. Young, (since christened "Gen.
Garfield") and sailed away from the harbor
amid the shouts of the men, the gay laugh-
ter of the ladies, and the delicious music of
Daynes' full quadrille band stationed on the
hurricane deck of the boat.
	An exhilarating sea breeze was bearing
down from the north and for four hours the
gay excursionists continued, in dancing, and 
various ways to enjoy themselves. With
the exception of a few cases of sea-sickness
nothing occured to mar the pleasure of the
time.
	Dinner was served at Clinton's Hotel—
after which the ball room, and Ice cream
room below, became the centres of attrac-
tions until 6.30 p. m., when a longing for
"Sweet Home" took possession of the souls
of our pleasure wearied fellow-citizens; and
taking their seats in the cars they were
soon whirling away towards their homes;
which they reached tired and sleepy—but
quite willing at some future date to "try it
again."
	Among the party conspicuous in their
uniforms, was the crew of the "Water
Witch;" a portion of the "Utah Yacht Club."
This little boat with its crew sailed from
the mouth of Jordan River on the morning
of Sunday the 30th ult., entered the Salt
Lake; stopped on the way at Church Island;
and made Clinton's Landing in the evening.
						    O. F. W.


THE longest word in the English Lan-
guage is Smiles; because there is a mile be-
tween the first and last letters.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Stephania Wolicka of Warsaw has
received the degree of Dr. of Philosophy
by the Faculty of the University of Zurich, for
a very commendable and accurate disserta-
tion on the condition of the Grecian women.

	DR. Frances Hoggen of London, reports
that "in that city women physicians receive
the same fees as men." She says micro-
scopic specimen mounting is an employ-
ment particularly appropriate for women of
refinement.

	MRS. L.H. Stone of Kalamazoo Mich. de-
livered a lecture on the "Origin and devel-
opement of Art," to the Ladies' Literary So-
ciety of Grand Rapids, on Thursday even-
ing May 20th, which is said to have called
forth the highest praise and admiration of
an attentive and appreciative audience.

	MRS. Comstock an efficient temperance
lecturer, states that she has visited 115,000
prisoners in America; and of these 105,000
have been convicted directly or indirectly
through drink.  The workhouses were also
largely peopled from the ranks of intemper-
ance.

	MISS Ronian of Providence R. I. having
experience as clerk in one of the finest
drugstores in that city, is now apothecary at
the Rhode Island General Hospital, having
the whole charge of that department. She
is said to be the only lady apothecary in the
city, and is studiously pursuing the study
of German, in order to more efficiently
qualify herself for the work.

	MISS Stebbins one of our most highly cul-
tivated and truly gifted women has written
recently referring to the deaths of celebra-
ted and useful women who have been taken
from our midst this last winter; her words
are touching and appropriate.  She says; "It 
seems as though this unprecedented win-
ter has been one rough tempestuous wind,
beating on the tree of life and shaking off
its choicest fruit." Four women whose lives
have fallen with the winter storms, we
shall vainly yet longingly look for, as for
the coming flowers of spring.  What James
Freeman Clarke said of one of them Susan
Dimock, was characteristic of them all. "So
filled with a desire to help her suffering sis-
ters."

	THE Seventh Anniversary meeting of the
New England Woman Suffrage Association
commenced Monday evening May 24th, in
Tremont Temple, Boston, Mass. Mrs. Ju-
lia Ward Howe presided.  The meeting was
one of vital importance to the women of
America; many celebrated speakers ad-
dressed them from time to time; and con-
siderable business was transacted.  Officers
were chosen for the coming year. Bishop
Gilbert Haven of Georgia in the opening
session, spoke warmly, eloquently and com-
mendably in favor of "Woman Suffrage;"
he says "There is a moral instinct about
woman that is needed." Women will rep-
resent the home, the family, the church,
education, peace and purity, and the same
good man also says; "We want deliverance
from heavy burdens, and we can only ob-
tain it by the help of women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿[For the EXPONENT.]
JUNE, QUEEN OF SUMMER

Softly tread 'midst buds and roses,
	Fragrant with the breath of June,
Blossoms teeming o'er with sweetness
	Redolent with Spring’s perfume.

Crowning glory of the summer,
	June, the Queen of Nature's bowers!
Buzz of bees, and insects murmur,
	Songs of birds beguile the hours.

In the gloam of early evening,
	Softly falls a radiance fair;
Nature's jewels—dew-drops sparkling
	Fairy foot-prints everywhere.

Listen closely to the zephyr,
	Faintly breathing God is here,
And the echo's answering murmur,
	Angels' voices lingering near.

June 11th, 1875.				EMILE.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment
Association held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms May 29th, 1875 was once
posessing the characteristics of a spirit of
enterprise and energy in the work now be-
ing engaged in with united effort by the
societies of sisters, namely, the HOME INDUS-
TRIES.
	After the usual ceremonies and reading of
minutes by the different secretaries, the
president Mrs. M. L. Horne expressed her-
self highly edified with the minutes of the
young ladies; spoke of her sorrow on ac-
count of President George A. Smith's illness
and her desire that all present should pray
for his restoration to health, if it was the
will of God. With a few other impressive
remarks she gave tho meeting into the
hands of the sisters and also invited Presi-
dent Joseph Young who was present to ad-
dress the congregation; he very cordially
responded to the invitation, and addressed
the sisters in a very earnest and forcible
manner. Counselors P. Woodruss, E. How-
ard, E. R. Snow and Z. D. Young, Mrs. W.
East and E. S. Barney each spoke con-
cerning the work now in progression; Coun.
Z. D. Young alluded particularly to those who
were asleep in Zion, apparently inspired to
arouse the sisters upon that subject.
Throughout the meeting every one seemed
actuated in speaking, to drift into the same
channel and true union of interest and feel-
ing prevailed.
		NORTH OGDEN, MAY 6th, 1875
DEAR EXPONENT:
	We though we would try to interest
your readers with a few words from the 
young Ladie's Retrenchment Association of
North Ogden.
	We number 58 members, we have held
10 meetings only, we were organized March
4th, 1875, under the direction of Prest. C.
H. Wheelock who has really been a father to
this people here; he has aroused a feeling of
interest in all matters of improvement
and worth.
	On Sunday the 18th of March, there were
59 baptized on the 25th, 49 more were added
to the church.
	On the 16th of last month we were favor-
ed with a visit from Sr. Eliza R. Snow and 
Sr. Howard from Salt Lake City, and Sr.
Richards and others of Ogden; they at-
tended the Relief Society meeting and had
a good time.
	They also met with out Retrenchment
Society and gave us some excellent counsel
which we all appreciated; both meetings
were well attended.
[Column 2]
	Sr. E. Barney also paid us a visit on the 
22nd, and assisted us in our duties by her
timely counsel and advice, encouraged us to 
enter into HOME INDUSTRIES, showed
us how to commence and left with her a 
us a spirit of enterprise; we now re-
alize the importance of manufacturing
all we can, and thus be more independ-
ent; steps are being taken in that direction.
	We feel to ask the Lord to inspire these
sisters to go among the people and continue
their labors, for we know they are blessed
of the Lord, and we hope ere long they will
again visit North Ogden.
	When ever we meet together we talk of 
the refreshing time we had with those tal-
ented sisters; and we pray for their welfare
and the prosperity of all that labor for the 
good of the Saints and the building up of 
the kingdom of God. We enclose our reso-
lutions and though we are young beginners
we feel that we may not be the least, after a
while.
	Respectfully,
		EVA E. CHADWICK President,
	GEORGINA SPARKMAN, ELLENOR BER-
RETT Secy's.
	Resolutions of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association of North Ogden
March 31st, 1875.
	1st. Resolved, that it shall be the duty
of the President to attend, and preside at all
our meetings, and if she is necessarially de-
tained, it shall be the duty of some of her 
Counselors to preside in her absence.
	2nd. Resolved that we will keep good or-
der in our meetings, and they shall be con-
ducted with singing and prayer; and that 
we seek for the spirit of the Lord to direct
us in all we say and do.
	3rd. Resolved that we will daily attend to 
our prayers, and live our religion to the best
of our ability, and do unto others as we
would wish to be done by.
	4th. Resolved that we embrace as articles
of our faith the Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants, and the standard
works of the Church with the preachings of 
the Presidency and recognized authorities.
	5th. Resolved that we will retrench from 
the use of bad language, from speaking evil
of our neighbors and associates, and from
speaking against any of the doctrines or 
principles of our faith; and that we will
avoid loud laughter and every thing that is
unbecoming and unchristian like.
	6th. Resolved that we will read good
books, and attend Sabbath School, and meet-
ings whereby we may obtain good instruc-
tion, and our associates shall be those of our 
own faith.
	7th. Resolved that we will endeavor to 
keep the Word of Wisdom according to the 
spirit and meaning thereof.
	Eva E. Chadwick President,
	Martha Michael,	}
	Elizabeth Chadwick,}
	Esther Chadwick,	}	Counselors.
	Isabella Crandal	}
	Sarah Jane Wades,	}
	Emily Knowles,	}
	Georgina Sparkican Ellenor Berret Secy's.
	ROCKPORT May 10th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the Relief Society of 
Rockport held our second annual meeting on 
May 6th when Bishop S. Atwood from Kam-
as and Bishop Bryant of this place were
present; also Mrs. M. J. Atwood President
of the Relief Society of Kamas accompa-
nied by Ann Harder and sister DeLuce.
	They gave us much valuable instruction
upon the privileges, blessings and duties of
[Column 3]
the Gospel and the Societies. The report of 
our society read by the secretary showed the 
funds left in the Treasury amounted to 
fifty-eight dollars and forty-five cents. We 
have had more of the sisters join our so-
ciety in the last year, and though there are
but few of us in our little settlement we 
strive to be united, and hope by the bless-
ing of our Heavenly Father, to hold out
faithful to the end that we may obtain that
crown of glory laid up for the faithful. We 
receive much valuable instruction through
the columns of the EXPONENT, which we 
ought to practice as sisters in the Kingdom
of God. We wish you success in your en-
terprise at all times and humbly subscribe
ourselves, Your Sisters in the Gospel.
	ANN BRYANT President, Elizabeth Ver-
non and Alice M. Malon Counselors, Char-
lotte Merehat Treasurer, Sarah Staker,
Secretary.
			FAIRFIELD MAY 3, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is rarely that any thing of note occurs
here, but the recent visit of sister Snow to 
the Relief Society in this place was a pleas-
urable break in our usual monotony.  She 
held two meetings, one with the Relief So-
ciety on the afternoon of Thursday April
22nd, and another in the evening, of a more
general character, at which the attendance
was very large.  At her request many of 
our young men were present and she ad-
dressed them very earnestly, giving them
excellent counsel, (as also to the sisters pres-
ent), one of our Gentile residents after-
wards observed, "he had never heard bet-
ter preaching" At the close of the meeting
she spoke of her desire to organize a Re-
trenchment Association, if it was agreable
to the feelings of those she was addressing,
and requested all the young ladies that were
in favor of such an organization to meet
with her on the following morning April 
23rd. A considerable number met at the 
appointed time and a Young Ladies Re-
trenchment Association was organized with 
the following officers.—
	Mrs. Agnes Young President,
	"  Elvira Healy,	}
	"  Zilpha Young,	}
	Miss Sophy Snider, }	Counselors.
	"  Sophy Bessinger, }
	"  Mary Carson,	}
	Mrs. Amanda Barlow,
	Miss Ada A. Kendell, Secretary,
	"  Jemima Savage Assistant Secretary.


EXTRACTS.

	FROM THE BROOKLYN JOURNAL OF
			EDUCATION.

	Underlying all the great questions of sci-
ence, religion, government and society,
which at the present day engage the
thoughts and actions of the best men and
women of the land, are those of Heredity,
Hygiene and Longevity. Not yet fully
recognized by the majority of people as of
vital importance, still they insinuate them-
selves into every discussion and into all
statistics. Being vital questions, they will
assert themselves, and in time, the specula-
tive mind will necesarially start on its
journey, only after having carefully consider-
ed the laws of reproduction, transmission,
the preservation of health, and life—and of'
decay.
	Man’s responsibility to his Creator, for
the care and preservation of his own life,
and that of others, will be clearly defined.
Natural laws will supplant society laws.
The apparent conflict between Science and


Religion becomes less and less distinct.
Part of the money now yearly spent in im-
proving breeds of animals, applied to physi-
ological training and education of children,
would indirectly do much to settle the
questions of the duty of individuals to the
government, society and themselves, of the
co-education of the sexes, and of woman's
sphere. As forerunners in the physiologi-
cal and hygienic discussion, which has
been inaugurated, have appeared "Sex in
Education," Sex and Education," "Build-
ing of a Brain," and "The Education of
American girls." Sex has been the stumb-
ling block. Ably has the subject been hand-
led on both sides, and out of the combat
comes the fact that Americans are becoming
sensible of physical and mental defects—in
American men and women, where hereto-
fore has been mainly a mutual admiration.
	Sex is so enveloped in the questions of
inheritance, longevity and disease, and it
has been made the cause of all the evils
which happen to women in all the various
toils of life.
	Given, a boy and girl of equal health, the
same inherited health, and with identical
surroundings, if both are physiologically
educated, the result, in effect, will be the
same, bearing in mind the difference in
physical organizations.
	Strong mental influence or will, may
force a feeble body into unnatural vigorous
work, for an uncertain time. A powerful
bodily vigor may carry for a season, a feeble
intellect, as a strong river current might
bear a frail, badly equipped vessel upon its
waters, only to be shipwrecked when opposi-
tion presented itself, or strength to meet
emergencies became a necessity.
	Brain work demands good healthy blood,
and this can only come from food that is nu-
tritious, and that the stomach can digest,
yet this fact is unknown, to or unheeded by
many.
	As bearing upon the question of the edu-
cation of the sexes, the following extracts
from the essays of the various well-known
female contributors to the "Education of
American Girls," are of value.
	"To us, as women, as wives, as mothers,
as older sisters, as friends, as teachers, as
college girls, as school girls, and to us alone,
the settlement of the question has at last
been fairly handed over. We have only,
in all these relations, to learn the laws of
physical health and to obey them, and the
whole matter will be set at rest forever."
	*	*	*	*	*	"When our
women are better educated, there will be
less prudery and more real modesty."
	*	*	*	*	"the work must
be begun early in life, and the mind of the
girl must be braced by a recognition of
natural law to the acceptance of all the con-
ditions of her nature. But for this, she
must learn to distinguish between the
ideal and the actual, between woman’s, na-
ture, as God designed it, and her nature, as
long years of hereditary sin and disease and
false custom have made it. It helps us
very much to learn the how, even if we can
never solve the why."
	Mind and body depend for strength, upon
each other; health is largely the result of
physiological education or the observance of
Natures laws; usefulness in any sphere is
best attained through healthy lives.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN economical farmer's daughter in
Massachusetts put off her wedding day be-
cause eggs were up to forty cents a dozen,
it taking two dozen for the wedding cakes
and pudding.


﻿VISIT OF GEN. GARFIELD.

	Gen. J. A. Garfield, member of Congress
from Ohio, reached our city on his way East
from California, Friday morning, June 4th.
His Excellency Gov. Axtel, Delegate Can-
non, Mayor Wells, Elder John W. Young,
and other prominent citizens of Salt Lake,
and the members of the City Council went
to Ogden to welcome him. In the after-
noon, a complimentary excursion to Lake
Point was arranged in honor of his arrival.
	Among the invited guests, were his Ex-
cellency Gov. Axtel, Justices' Emerson and
Boreman, Secretary Black, Gen. Smith, Dr.
Vollum, and several other officers civil and
military. Mayor Wells, Hon. George Q.
Cannon, Elder Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow,
John W. Young, A. M. Musser, Bishop John
Sharp, and members of the Common Coun-
cil, were nearly all accompanied by ladies.
Among the strangers were, Mr. and Mrs. L.
P. Sage, from California.
	The entire company was very select, and
occupied seven cars well filled. Clinton's
landing was reached before four o'clock;
soon after nearly all the party went on board
the steamer and sailed away towards
Church Island. The Lake was unusually
quiet, the sea breeze fresh and exhilarating,
the company animated and social; every-
thing was conducive to pleasure and enjoy-
ment. Generous supplies of cake, ice cream
and refreshments suitable to the occasion
were served on the steamer. After re-
maining out about an hour, the steamer an-
chored again at the pier, where it was pro-
posed the boat should be re-christened in
honor of the distinguished Delegate, he
being the first Member of Congress who
had honored the boat by his presence. Ac-
cordingly, the owner of the boat, Mr. John
W. Young, proposed that Mrs. Horace S.
Eldridge being the eldest lady present
should break a bottle of "champagne" and
amid loud cheers, the gallant little steamer
received the name of "Gen. Garfield." Mr.
John W. Young then suggested three cheers
in honor of Mayor Wells, and three in hon-
or of his Excellency Gov. Axtel.
	The party was one highly enjoyable, and
all with one accord pronounced it a complete
success. On the way home, a committee
was appointed to arrange another trip for
the next morning, to go on the Southern
train to Provo. Gen. N. Kimball and Dr.
J. P. Taggart formed the committee. Ac-
cording to the programme arranged, the
pleasure party went South on the morning
train, and reaching Provo the party visited
the factories, and other places of interest,
and returned home about one o'clock. In
the afternoon  Gen. visited the most no-
table places in the city, called upon Presi-
dent Young, and visited the theatre in the
evening. Sunday, Gen. Garfield, in com-
pany with his Excellency Gov. Axtel at-
tended the meeting in the Tabernacle.


FLORAL HINTS.

			ST. GEORGE May, 27, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT;
	Trees, vines and plants are now in their
brightest glory of verdure, and bloom of
beauty and fragrance. And it is delightful
in the early evening of a day when Sol has
awakened the dormant mercury and sent
it bounding up to 90° and over, to trace the
garden walks, bordered with thousand-hued
flowers, to breathe their delicious odors
which calm the nerves and cause us to for-
get corroding care, and allays the irritation
from disappointments or the annoyances of
persons and circumstances around us.


We have many and many a time, been
asked by otherwise intelligent people, when
looking over the garden of floral lovliness 
“Does this pay?” and “how can you afford
to spend so much time and money on your
flowers?” As though the world and hu-
man life were made up of dollars and cents
—As though our mission here was to col-
lect creature necessties, and banks of gold
only—as though beauty, lovliness, taste, re-
finement—and the delighful converse with
nature, were only the needless superfluities
of the visionary.
	Do such people ever recollect that we are
created with two eyes, and but one mouth—
and therefore should have twice the
amount of things of beauty which are a
joy forever, we need for the mouth.
That we have two organs of smell and may
enjoy twice as much in fragrance as in eat-
ing our food?—That we have two ears pro-
vided to give us pleasure in sweet sounds
of music, the joyous langauge of birds, and
dear voices in converse with our friends?
	Do such people care to know that the as-
sociation with the beautiful in nature, with
flowers, delightful plants, sweet soothing
music, together with the influence of good
women, are the great powers that smooth
the roughness, give taste, polish, finish
and refinement to otherwise coarse, selfish
and uncongenial natures, and cause the dis-
tinctive line between mankind and the
lower animals.
	We think it just as necessary for our com-
fort, well-being, usefulness and longevity
here on earth to have ready for our enjoy-
ment the, beautiful, lovely, and soothing in
nature, as food, raiment and etceteras that
make up domestic requirements.
	We plant flowers, nurse them, and care
for them because we love their beauty, their
fragrance their soothing, softening influence;
their moral and refining tendencies.
	Children should be taught to love, and
cultivate them, the types of purity, inno-
cence and heaven. And they will be bet-
ter than those who have no taste for flowers.
Mothers see to it, teach your boys while
they are with you, first to love, then to plant
and nurse flowers, and when they go out
alone into the world, there will be a deep
lasting remembrance of a home, a mother
and lovely flowers that will be a restraint to
keep them from many an evil. Yes make
home beautiful and enticing, and the child-
ren will love, cherish and long for it. 
							FLORA.


TRIBUTE TO A MOTHER.—Children, look
in those eyes, listen to that dear voice, no-
tice the feeling of even a single touch that
is bestowed upon you by that gentle hand!
Make much of it while yet you have that
most precious of all gifts, a loving mother,
Read the unfathomable love of those eyes.
the kind anxiety of that tone and look, how;
ever slight your pain. In after life you-
may have friends, fond dear friends; but
never will you have again the inexpressible
love and gentleness lavished upon you
which none but a mother bestows. Often
do I sigh in my struggles with the dark,
uncaring world, for the deep sweet security
I felt when, of an evening, nestling in her
bosom, I listened to some quiet tale, suitable
to my age, read in her tender and untiring-
voice. Never can I forget her sweet glan-
ces cast upon me when I appeared asleep;
never her kiss of peace at night. Years
have passed away since we laid her beside
my father in the old church-yard; and still
her voice whispers from the grave, and her
eye watches over me, as I visit spots long
since hallowed to the memory of my moth-
er.—Lord Macaulay.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
				L. GREEN RICHARDS, Editor.
			CORNELIA H, HORNE, Business Manager.

			Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
		Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
			Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
			Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	The fifty-ninth Anniversary of the Amer-
ican Bible Society was held at Chicago Tues-
day May 25th......The Grand Master of Free
Masons in Iowa has decided that dancing in
the Lodge room is inconsistent with the
good of the craft.........Ex-Gov. Bullock
of Mass. will deliver the oration before the
"Phi Beta Kappa Society" of Brown Uni-
versity at the next commencement......An-
other steamship the Germanic of the White
Star Line, is on her way from Liverpool to
New York, the largest afloat except the
Great Eastern......The Sioux delegates have
left Washington and are on their way home
......Extensive wood fires are raging on the
Union river Maine......Half the town of
Great Bend, Penn. was destroyed by fire
Saturday, May 29th, loss about $125,000
......The Libby Elevator in Brooklyn, Iowa,
was burned Wednesday, May 20th; loss $50,
000.......Mrs. Lucy Redington, widow of
thelate Gen. Redington, has filed her applica-
tion for letters of Administration upon her
husband's estate, it is the largest estate ev-
er acted upon in Sacramento Co. Cal.......
The silk merchants of New York are com-
bining for protection against smugglers......
Mrs. Genan of Cleveland, Ohio, was mur-
dered by her son-in-law May 30th......The
Viceroy of Egypt has resolved to construct
a railroad along the valley of the Nile to
the interior of Africa......A new Masonic
Temple was dedicated in New York Wed-
nesday June 2nd, with great pomp and dis-
play......A deputation of the London Anti-
Slavery Society presented a memorial to
Lord Derby asking government interference
to stop the civil war and the slave and coo-
lie trade......The public debt was reduced
nearly $1,200,000 during the last month......
The official inquiry into the loss of the
steamer Schiller has been commenced in
England.......Judge Milton formerly Chief
Justice of Mass. is dead......The Colorado
Stock and Exchange Board opened at Den-
ver City June 1st.
			FOREIGN.
	An international congress on the history
of America before its discovery by Colum-
bus, will meet in Nancy France, July 22nd
......In the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland there are only 137 daily news-
papers published......Moody and Sankey
continue their daily revival meetings with-
out any diminution, Earl Shaftesbury,
Lord Cairns, Earl of Craven and many
clergymen, have been among their hearers
recently......Forty-six paintings and sketch-
es by the late J. T. Millet, were recently
sold in Paris for 276,000 frances......A mag-
nificent new building has been commenced
in Southampton, Eng. to be called "The
Watts Memorial Hall and Sunday School"
......Mr. Leigh Hunt, grandson of the fa-
mous poet, recently committed suicide in
London......The English Arctic Expedition
left Portsmouth on the 29th of May......
Three hundred and three women contribu-
ted to the Fine Art Exhibition this year in
Paris......The Theatre Royal at Lieds, Eng.
was destroyed by fire recently......Prince
Bismarck has dissolved the German Press
Bureau......The King and Queen of Swed-
en have visited Berlin, it is said their visit
is a manifestation of Sweden's support of
the three Emperors......There was a serious
fire at Guelph Ontario recently......A fire in
Portland N. B. May 28th, destroyed $250,
000 worth of property, 140 families were
rendered homeless......Cholera prevails in
the city of Baroda, India......500 persons
have been attacked with small-pox and 161

[Column 2]
have died of it recently in Andenne Lorette
The monetary panic in Rio Janeiro is sub-
siding......The family of Captain Hall, the
Arctic explorer, has been presented with a
gold medal by the French Geographical
Society......The money contributed to the
memorial of Canon Kingsley in Eng. now
amounts to $5,290......Woman's Suffrage
has suffered another defeat in England......
Gov. Jovellar formerly Cap. Gen. of Cuba,
has been appointed to command the army
of the Centre of Spain......Prince Batthy-
ani's colt "Galopin," won the Chief Derby
stakes at the recent Derby races......The
corporation of London has resolved to in-
vite the Mayor of New York to the inter-
national municipal banquet next month......
J. M. Sweeney, one of the alleged ring
thieves of New York died in Paris re-
cently......$200,000 damage by fire at Hull,
Canada, and $50,000 at Hamilton, Ont.......
The Laborers Federal Union of Great Brit-
ian intend sending delegates to examine
the Mississippi Valley, with regard to mak-
ing settlements......There is a report of a
heavy cyclone on the Chinese coast which
wrecked several vessels......The Emperor
of Prussia has conferred the ordeer of ivil
merit on Hon. George Bancroft historian,
and Henry W. Longfellow, poet, of America.
			PERSONAL.
	Colfax made 6,000 lecturing last winter
......Charles A. Dana of The sun, has gone
to Europe......Mme. Demorest, accompanied
with Miss King is taking a tour through
Mexico.........Max Muller is journeying
through Italy and receiving the greatest re-
spect......Mr. Trenor N. Park of Benning-
ton, Vt. Is said to be the fourth man in
point of wealth in the United States......
His property is valued at $17,000,000......
James T. Fields of Boston has received
invitations from nineteen colleges to de-
liver lectures in July......Mr. Ralph Waldo
Emerson, attained his 72nd birthday May
26th......Stephen S. L. Hommedieu died at
West Point, May 26th, he was one of the
pioneers of Cincinnatti and for many years
President of the Cincinnatti; Hamilton and
Drayton railroad......Commodore Vander-
bilt was eighty-one years of age on Thursday,
May 27th......Judge W. L. F. Warren, one
of the oldest and most eminent of the citi-
zens of Saratoga, died recently at the age
of eighty-two years......Rev. J, Houston
Ecceleston, D. D. of Philadephia, has been
chosen Bishop of the Diocese of Iowa......
Mark Brown, convicted of the murder of
Gloester Carrin in Sullivan County, New
York, Oct. last, is sentenced to be hung in
Monticello, July 31st......Dr. Saville the In-
dian agent in Northwestern Neb. has re-
signed his position.....Col. H. T. Temple-
ton died in San Francisco, Friday, May 28th.


The Cincinnati Musical Festival opened
on the 11th of May and was held four days;
the chorus numbered 825 voices and the
band 102 pieces.  It is said to have rivaled
in its character and importance the most
ambitious efforts of New York or Boston and
even the achievements of the great choral
festivities of England.  The streets were
decorated as if for a great victory; every
public building was hung with banners,
streamers and festoons, and the locomotives,
steamers on the river and even the street-
car horses were ornamented for the occa-
sion. The most difficult pieces were ren-
dered with such perfect success that corres-
pondents are at a loss for words to fitly praise
the performance. The festival ended with
"Prometheus." The audience, which con-
sisted of more than 8000 persons, were en-
thusiastic in their applause.


GIVE FREELY.

	It is a well understood and beautiful truth,
that there are many blessings, of which, the
more bestowed upon fellow creatures, the larger
become the stores of those who impart. And
these are ever the brightest, dearest and sweet-
est gifts of God to His children; such as wis-
dom, love, hope, and the sunshine of the heart.
	When a kindred human is seen in trouble, it
need not cost a cent to offer words of encour-
agement and consolation worth thousands of 
dollars. It costs nothing indeed, but such words
are never given without recompense. See the
tired, careworn housewife, whose "work is
never  done," sink wearily down at evening,
with the common, comfortless "O dear! I've
been busy as I could be all day long, and yet I
have done nothing!"
	Do not let her fall asleep with that cheerless
impression, if you are blest with power to, re-
move it. And you are if you have ever watch-
ed the daily course of a faithful wife and moth-
er, and if you have a heart that can feel and
appreciate, and a tongue that can speak. Ask
her who it was that this morning tenderly
awoke the precious lambs who lay so quietly
sleeping in the low trundle-bed, with kisses and
loving words, that they might not be "too late
for school, and miss the pretty prizes so anx-
iously awaited? Who, though hurried with
breakfast that papa might be at his work in
good season, still found time to soothe Jennie's
grief over her tangled curls, and to help comb
out the snarls. To find careless Willie's jacket
that "would always get lost however much
pains were taken to  put it safe at bed time!"
And to show Sue the easiest way of finding out
that "hardest sum that ever was!" which she
could not possibly get through her sleepy little
head the night before?  Breakfast over and
the children gone to school, who brought baby
in from the street a dozen times or more, that
he might not be run over by wagons or carria-
ges; from the water that he might not paddle
and take cold; who fed him, sung him to sleep,
and attended to all his infant needs? And who
has thus followed up the thousand duties nec-
essary to be looked after in the home circle,
each trifling in itself perhaps, but altogether
amounting to a good and noble day's work?
	Tell her these things are not considered as
"nothing," by the great and all-wise Father who
has granted us each a probation here, that we
may work.  That if we work wisely and well,
no matter what our employment may be, the
Father is satisfied with us.  Tell her that to
raise a family of children, directing them in
the proper channel, is as great a work as the
Lord has assigned to any of His sons and
daughters. Cheer her sinking spirits, enliven
her wearied soul, administer to her freely and
without stint and you will find yourself doubly
refreshed and blest.
	So with all who labor or repine, who grieve


or fret or in any wise find life burdensome.
Lift them up. Comfort and encourage wher-
ever you can, and especially in your own home
circle.
	Husbands, cheer your wives. Make them
feel that you appreciate their efforts to make a
home-heaven for you and your children, though
the world knows nothing of them. Wives,
never offer other than sweet words  love, and
bright, sunny smiles to the men you have cho-
sen as companions. Parents, be patient and
long-suffering with the children God has en-
trusted to your care. Never miss an opportu-
nity of teaching a child a truth and the value
of it, no matter how small, for all truths are
important. Lead the children in the straight
and narrow way, remembering ever that to
lead, you must precede them.
	By the spread of truth, will wickedness be
swept away, and the Millennium brought
in.  Therefore, give freely of the good within
you, thus increasing light and beauty around
you, as well as your own store.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AN AUTHOR'S MIND.

	When one sits down to write an article, so
many subjects crowd upon the mind, and clus-
ters of ideas amalgamate themselves together,
that to seperate them into distinct file, and give
each set of items their proper place and care-
ful thought before putting them upon paper, is
an undertaking which none realize, save those
whose minds are fruitful in spontaneous pro-
duction, and have not been subjected to sys-
tematic training.
	When the spirit of inspiration is upon us we
may have wisdom to cull the choicest frag-
ments of our thoughts and frame them fitly
together, so as to produce perfect harmony of
language and ideas, but there always seems so
much to write about, that this culling, fitting
and systematizing is really difficult.
	Watts gave many useful lessons in reference
to this subject, in his work entitled; "Watts on
the Mind," but we sometimes think he lived
in a different day and a slower age; in this
generation everything rushes headlong, and
our ideas seem to follow the same lead; instead
of clear, distinct and definite steadfastness to
our subject, we grasp a heterogeneous mass, and
try to express more than our space or time will
admit of; the same fact is apparent in regard
to sermons, verbal or written; the speakers take
a text, and launch forth amidst an ocean of
ideas, a sea of words, and the space is so broad,
that unconsciously they drift about, and lose
sight of the starting point.
	To tell a great deal in a few words, and in
choice language accurately, is a very desirable
acquirement, and should be regarded as a su-
perior accomplishment.  It is extremely pain-
ful to listen to a fact, or an anecdote, from one
who is unable to convey the true meaning,
without a multiplicity of words and phrases
(not always fitly chosen) which have no real
bearing upon the subject in question.
	These are some of an author's troubles;
thoughts which come crowding up in throngs,
harassing the brain, and struggling for a defi-
nite existence. We are infected, and we know
it, but tell us, is it not verily true, that a theme
is often carried out beyond, or beside, or even
against its original purpose? We think there
are good critics, who will testify with us, that
the title page, the preface, is often a vision of
the future unfulfilled.
	However, we were treating of an author's
mind, which resembles not an empty tene-
ment, but "a barn stored to bursting;" it is a
painful pressure constraining to write, perhaps

[Column 2]
involuntarily; memory, imagination, zeal, per-
ceptions of men and things, a crowd of inter-
nal imagery, and we write to be quit of them,
and not let the crowd increase.  And now let
us elucidate our own, such as it is, richer or
poorer, better or worse, "a medley of crudities,"
a power to be exerted, which opportunity hath
not yet matured; sometimes it is well to go dis-
guised, to address the judgment unbiased and
unsanctioned by name; only of one thing be
sure, we desire to keep inviolate, as much when
masked as when avowed, the laws of truth,
charity, sincerity and honor, to exert at all
times an influence for good, to maintain a strict
adherence to the principles of the Everlasting
Gospel.
	To cultivate, as highly as possible, the raw
material furnished by the heart's own foun-
tain; to select all the most precious and beauti-
ful metals which are combined in the mine of
the human soul, and labor to separate them
from the base alloy; to cull from the greener
garden of thoughts, the freshest and rarest buds
and blossoms; bear then, with this desultory
illustration of a momentous subject, and mer-
cifully spare our individual tender conscience
your literary censure.
	Be not offended when we tell you, that we
pray to be preserved from gossip, from scandal,
from self-conceit, from the love of praise; that
we may speak kindly of those, whose wit and
genius and graphic powers, help to smooth the
rough places in life, and to give cheerfulness to
the heart of mortals; the brilliant, the clever,
who overflow with mental affluence. And
now, dear friends, be assured, we have shown
you our honest mind; perchance you may
think wearily enough we have disposed of our
subject, but recollect if you, our fellow-labor-
ers, are not like-minded, or like-fitted, cour-
teously consider and freely forgive for mutual
unlikeness; and if together our track lie, along
the great high road, remember, good critics,
"there is room and work for all;" after a little
perhaps, your patience may find us better;
much to say and well witting how to say it, it
may happen at some future time, to amplify
and  perfect and gravitate into something of
order these crowding fancies; but in as frank
and artless a fashion as heretofore, we would pub-
lish our confessions, our humbleness; not for-
getting the scraps of paper covered with half-
written thoughts, powerful gusts of feeling, "a
half-made progeny."
	Let us hasten to be practical; meanwhile a
brighter prospect glows in the distance, for
those who are earnest and devoted in the good
work of refreshing mankind, advancing knowl-
edge, consoling sorrow, blessing humanity; for 
all such there is certain success, a rich recom-
pense, a glorious reward.
	June 8, 1875		E. R. Wells		B. B.


[Column 1]
﻿			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MONTGOMERY QUEEN'S Circus and Menage-
rie are expected in this city soon, and have an-
nounced their appearance June 21, 22 and 23.
They are on their way East, from California.
	HON. SETH Paddlesford, ex-Governor of
Rhode Island, with a party of ladies and gen-
tlemen from Providence, called upon President
Young recently, while on a visit to our city;
Gov. Axtel accompanied them; the party also
visited the Theatre in the evening.
	MRS. JAMES A. Oates., with her comic opera
troupe, commences this evening, June 15th, a
short series of popular entertainments in the
Salt Lake Theatre. She ranks highly among
artists of her type, and will no doubt be thor-
oughly appreciated, as our citizens seem to 
possess a rare taste for highly finished acting.

[Column 2]
	MR. E. W. Tullidge left this city Wednesday
evening, June 9th, for the East to make ar-
rangements for the publication of his new his-
torical work, to be entitled "The Founders of
Utah." It is anticipated, judging from his
well-known literary ability, that this work is
accurately and attractively written.
	WE ARE most happy to announce that the
health of President George A. Smith is steadily
and gradually improving; he is now able to ride
out occasionally, and all things being propi-
tious, it is probable he will soon be permanently
recovered. The Saints have great reason to be
thankful that the Lord has seen fit to spare to
them, this great, good and useful man.
	PLEASURE PARTIES, picnics and out-door ex-
cursions seem to be "the order of the day" in
this most delightfully pleasant month. Sun-
day Schools, Literary Societies, Good Templars,
Masons, and various different clubs, institu-
tions, etc., and private parties,all seem desirous
to improve the halcyon time.  Among the
most favored resorts are Lake Point, Lake side,
Farr's Grove, Spring Lake and Lindsey's Gar-
dens.
	A FRAGRANT and beautiful bunch of flowers
from the "Glendale Gardens," was placed upon
our table a few days since.
Where once the sage-bush grew in lonely solitude,
Mocking the winds that shook its gray and shaggy coat,
The florist's care has loveliest garlands strew'd,
And softest, sweetest perfumes, summer zephyrs float.
	We are indebted to Mrs. Wm. Wagstaff for
the kind favor of the beautiful bouquet.
	THE EXAMINATION of six young ladies who
have been for three years engaged as pupil
teachers at St. Mark's School, took place Satur-
day, May 29th; Bishop Tuttle, Professor Turner
and Miss Cole conducted the examination,
which reflected great credit on the institution,
and also upon the young ladies themselves, as
their success proves them to have been ener-
getic and industrious.  The young ladies are,
Misses Inez Earl, Ellen Huey, Mary and Katie
Ferguson, Agnes Lynch and Hannah Dawson;
they are now prepared to fill the position of
teachers, by practice and theory.
	TOURISTS, TRAVELERS and pleasure-seekers
now a days, give Salt Lake a call on their way,
and manifest considerable interest as well as
curiousity in our city and its institutions; the
hotels are fast filling up, and they are still com-
ing.  The prospect is, we shall become better
understood by people of cultivation and refine-
ment. Among the recent arrivals are two sis-
ters of the Order of the Holy Cross, Mother,
Mary Augusta and Sister Raymond; they are
from St. Mary's, South Bend, Indiana, and are
at present the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Marshall.  Their design is to establish a school
in this city, under the auspices of their church.
	MONDAY EVENING, June 7th, a number of
ladies and gentlemen, interested in the subject
of sericulture, met per appointment in the 
City Hall, for the purpose of arranging matters
to establish a society to promote the manufac-
ture of silk, in its various stages of production.
A. M. Musser, Esq., was chosen Chairman,
and Mary Carter, of Bountiful, Secretary of
the meeting. Persons who were present relat-
ed their experience with regard to the subject
before the meeting, and made some statements
encouraging to those entering upon this branch
of HOME INDUSTRY. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. S. Barney were chosen
as a committee to obtain means to procure ma-
chinery and so forth, necessary to forward this
laudable undertaking.  It is believed by those
best acquainted with the silk manufacture,
that this climate is well adapted to the necessa-
ry resources for its production. In some for-
eign countries it is a source of immense wealth;
and with patience, energy and perseverance
may eventually, become a success in Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


INVOCATION.
[TUNE—GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.]
O Lord bless Brigham Young!
(From Saints of every tongue,
		Let this ascend;)
Thy spirit light his way,
Be thou his guide and stay,
And guard both night and day,
		Him to defend!
Grant he may live to see
Thy Saints in unity,	
	Go hand in hand;
When we are one in Thee,
We shall our triumph see,
Thy name shall honored be,
		In every land.
When thus our work is done,
Having the victory won,
	Saints meet again,
Keeping this still in view,
Whatever others do,
Let us stand firm and true
		Amen! Amen!
				WILLIAM GIBSON.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Sponge Cake.—Three eggs, one cup of flour,
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half tea-
spoonful soda.
	To Remove Ink from a Carpet.—Make a paste
of arsenic and water, apply it, wash off and put
on more.  After three or four applications the ink
will disappear.
	Molasses Cake.—Take two cups of molasses
and one half-cup of shortening, and add as much
flour as you can stir in; then add two cups of
boiling water, in which you have dissolved one
large teaspoonful of saleratus.
	To extract ink from cotton, silk and woolen
goods, saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine
and let it remain for several hours; then rub it be-
tween the hands. It will crumble away without
injuring either the color or the texture of the arti-
cle.—Ex.
	To Color Furs Black or Brown.—Take ten grains
of gallic acid, ten of tincture of iron, and one
ounce of acetic acid. Dissolve the gallic acid in
the tincture of iron, and add the acetic acid, and
apply with a fine comb.  If black is desired the
furs must be moist, not wet; but if brown, the furs
must be dry.
	How to Keep Eggs.—We know of nothing bet-
ter in which to preserve eggs than lime water and 
salt.  Take a half barrel and put into it two
quarts of fresh lime, pouring upon it a pail or two
of warm water and stirring until thoroughly dis-
solved or slacked.  Add to this a gill of salt and
then fill up with water. The eggs may then be
packed in jars, tubs or another half barrel, and
when in position pour on enough of the solution to
cover them.  There is no danger of making the 
mixture too strong of lime, but too much salt will
discolor the shells.  When the eggs are taken out
for market they should be washed clean and dried
before packing again.
	Pie Crust.—The most healthy pie-crust is made
of thin, sweet cream and flour, with a little salt.
Don't knead thin. Bake in a quick oven. An-
other way is to sift a quart or two of flour in the 
pan. Stir in the center a little salt and a half tea-
spoonful of soda well pulverized. Now put in the
whole a cup of soft (not liquid) lard, or butter
and lard mixed, stir it thoroughly with the flour;
next add two scant cups of good sour milk or but-
ter-milk. Stir all quickly with the flour, in such
a way that you need hardly touch it with your
hands till you can roll it out. Bake quick. This
will make three or four pies.
	Old Potatoes.—Potatoes, to be good should
never be exposed to the light, but be kept in as
dark a place as possible.  After they begin to
pront in the spring, they should be taken up


from the bins or heaps and kept in boxes or bar-
rels. If you have a few barrels saved out for
family use, instead of picking them over and
spreading them every few weeks, put them into
enough barrels, so you can turn them from one to
another.  This keeps them moving so often that
the sprouts cannot grow enough to do much harm.
The sprouts which come from the potato use up
the nourishment which it contains and leaves it
soft, watery and insipid.  By treating them as
proposed above, they may be kept in condition
for the table several weeks longer than by sprout-
ing them, and at the same time save a deal of
work.


HYGENIC NOTES

	NERVOUS HEADACHE.—Nine-tenths of
all persons who suffer with nervous head-
ache might be permanently relieved by at-
tention to the laws of hygiene, to cat, sleep,
breathe and live correctly.
	FAST LIVING means spending vital force
in excess of the vital income, ending in
physiological bankruptcy.  It does not nec-
essarily apply to a young rake who spends
his life in low pleasures.  It applies to any
one, who lives beyond his physiological in-
come.
	DIFFERENCE IN PERSONS.—People in a
very exhausted condition, by excesses, over-
work, etc., have little power to throw off
trivial diseases even, and the reverse is also
true.  Thus some persons die with trivial
diseases, and others live with the most dan-
gerous ones.
	WEIGHT OF BRAIN.—The weight of the 
brain varies less than the body with varying
conditions. At thirty, on the average, the
man has attained his maximum of brain
and mental power; at fifty he has less brain
and mental force than he had between
twenty and twenty-five.
	GETTING RID OF BAD HABITS.—Risingabove them is better than fighting them.
Infinite toil would not enable one to sweep
away a mist, but by ascending a little you
may overlook it all together.  So it is
with our moral improvement; we wrestle
fiercely with a vicious habit, which would
have no hold upon us, if we ascended into a
higher moral atmosphere.
	LABOR AND LONGEVITY.—Work by
method and on system, even when severe,
is not only quite compatible with long life,
but it is actually conducive to it, while the
torpor of idleness, or the excitement of fitful
effort are the sure precursors of senile de-
generation. This is a useful doctrine to 
preach, and still more useful to practice.
	DRUNKENNESS AND DISEASE.—There is
no doubt whatever, that drunkenness, in
that ungovernable stage in which the vic-
tim cannot restrain himself from drinking,
is a disease of a most serious character.
The condition of the brain is one of great
and distressing exhaustion.  Alcohol tem-
porarily relieves it, by increasing the heart's
force and dilating the arteries, only to make
the matter worse in the end.  The true
method of curing such cases is by rest and
wholesome food, restoring the system to
health by hygienic measures as rapidly as
possible.  The use of the Turkish bath in
such cases has proved highly useful.


IN vain do they talk of happiness who
never subdued an impulse in obedience to a 
principle.  He who never sacrificed a pres-
ent to a future good, or a personal to a gen-
eral one, can speak of happiness only as the
blind do of colors.


For the Exponent.
		MY MOTHER.

	Dear young readers, being highly pleased
in reading the resolutions entered into by a 
portion of the young ladies of Utah, please
allow a humble writer to drop a few words
from experience. I once had a mother who
like yours, was the best of women; she
extended to me her faithful love and care
in sickness, health and childish errors,
through infancy and childhood, and when I
began to go in young company which is an
important period to our future life, mother
chose my company; (we then knew noth-
ing of so called Mormonism,) and I must
never go without hers or fathers consent,
and the time for my return was set; I must
shun those who indulged in unbecoming
conduct. At times I thought, why is moth-
er so strict with me, why not I, like others,
have pleasure without so much restraint;
and I thought, when I am a few years older
I will have my own way a little and get
along just as well too; however mother's or-
ders must be obeyed, if not, certain penalties
were attached.  But dear reader the older I
grew, the more I saw wisdom in mother's
particular government over me, for I have
known good young women who have been
indulged to associate with those who revel
in unlimited gaiety, soon become the sub-
jects of reproach; then getting discouraged
would say "I care not for what is said about
me;" hence by keeping improper company
many good young ladies and gentlemen too,
have fallen.  But to conclude my narrative
after my marriage which was in my nine-
teenth year, mother said to me, "you have
been obedient to your parents," and she gave
to me a book which was given her by her
brother in the twelfth year of her age A. D.
1805. I felt happy to hear mother talk thus
and the little treasure I still keep.  But alas a
sorrowful hour came, which to me had al-
ways looked far off, when my dear parents
went to rest, and ah the many places I can
now see, where I might have saved mother
from weary steps had I been more thought-
ful, but permit me to repeat as a sister has
said girls: "help mother in her many toils."
Remember the poem which says of a truth:
	"Who sat and watched my infant head
	When sleeping on my cradle bed
	And tears of sweet affection shed?
							My Mother
	When pain and sickness made me cry,
	Who was it sang sweet lullaby,
	And wept for fear that I should die?
						My Mother &c.
	A wise man once said, "honor and obey
thy father and thy mother in the days of
thy youth that thy days may be long etc."
	Oxford, May, 1875.		M. A. B.


ANDY JOHNSON’S MODEL DAUGH-
			    TER.

	How Andy Johnson's daughter used to
run the White House was thus pleasantly
told by Ex-Senator Doolittle in a recent ad-
dress:
	"Whatever may be said in criticism of Mr.
Johnson's public course, all parties agree
that the White House was never more
gracefully kept and presided over than by
his daughter, Mrs. Patterson—a perfect
lady, a model of a republican mistress of the
White House.  Let me tell a fact which has
never been published, but which I had from
the lady's own lips.  Just as she was about
to leave, at the end of Mr. Johnson's admin-
istration, the steward of the house took an
inventory and found that not one article of
furniture was missing or broken; not a


sheet, towel or napkin was lost; and the
house was in perfect order from top to bot-
tom. She told me another fact, which I
know the wives and daughters of Wisconsin
will be glad to hear:—When they went in-
to the White House she purchased two ex-
cellent cows.  From the milk of these cows
she made all the butter used, all the cream
and made all the ice cream used in the Pres-
ident's family during his term. When she
went home she shipped these cows to Ten-
nessee. Is it any wonder, ladies, that Mrs.
Patterson received the first premium on but-
ter at their Fair last fall?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WIFE OF THE SECRETARY
			OF THE NAVY

	The Washington correspondent of the
Cincinnaiti “Gazette” writes: "Mrs. Robe-
son seems to possess the fountain of eternal
youth, bubbling in its pristine freshness,
concealed somewhere within the generous
curves of her fine, portly person.  She en-
joys the society of young persons in the
most thorough manner, and what is rarer
still, the young people heartily reciprocate
the sentiment by being completely fascinat-
ed with her. Her hair is 'silvered o'er
with the frosts which come to all in the au-
tumn of life, but the frosts have mellowed
and ripened, not shriveled or pinched or
hardened any feature or feeling. Her name
might well be attached to the list of those
illustrious women whose fascination grew
with increasing years, like Mme. Recamier,
Cleopatra, Helen of Troy, and dozens of
others. Secretary Robeson was long and
deeply in love with the widow, Mrs. Aulick.
The young girls tried in vain to catch an
encouraging glance from the rotund bache-
lor Cabinet officer, and thereby build many
exquisite "chateaux en Espagne," through
which they might move in queenly grace
as the Naval Secretary's bride. But the
gentleman in question had eyes for but one
woman, and that woman a widow, with
dawning streaks of gray in her hair, evinc-
ing that the mild twilight of life had com-
menced.  After a perseverance worthy the
cause, Mrs. Aulick consented to become
Mrs. Robeson, and has filled her position of
Mrs. Secretary with rare dignity and satis-
faction.  When first married, the husband
and wife seemed as delighted and jubilant
as persons many years younger.  I have
seen them walking in the early morning,
somewhere in the vicinity of their resi-
dence, hand-in-hand like two children, and
laughing with an infectious merriment."


ENDURANCE OF THE SCOTCH
				GIRLS.

	The average Scotch girl is full of spirit,
life, and sunshine.  She can do a fair
amount of dancing during the season, row
a boat, tramp over a Highland road, or get
up a picnic party during the summer
months, without the slightest injury to her
complexion or her health. Up to a certain
age, as Dr. Clark says, the life of a Scotch
girl is calm and peaceful.  When she enters
upon the business of life she is no longer a
child. When she marries she is fitted to
enter upon that holy step, not a shattered
spectre with a pulseless soul, but as a woman,
strong in mind and body, and of mature
judgement. It may be said that our coun-
trywomen in the rural districts are some-
what coarse and masculine.  It is true that
their hands are often hard from daily toil,
and their arms and fingers are scarcely in
accordance with the Grecian line of beauty.


Yet there are many comely maidens among
them for all that; bonnie lasses with won-
derful complexions, and dazzling cen.  But
what matters it to sensible men, who have
brains enough to appreciate the difference
between a delicate doll and a healthy help-
meet.  There are volumes of common sense
in their honest noodles, and oceans of love
in their warm and constant hearts.


A BRAVE HOSTESS.

	John B. Gough, in his recent lecture in
New York, related the following story: An
L. L. D. was dining at the table of a lady
who, when Gen. Grant was spending two
days at her house, refused to tolerate one
drop of wine or spirits on her table; and
who, when about to entertain the British
nobility, as she did, and they inquired,
"Can you entertain Lord So and So?" re-
plied, "I can; but it must be understood
that neither wine, ale nor spirits are offered
in my house." This gentleman referred to
was at her dinner table, and said: "I en-
joy a glass of wine, and I have got in the
habit of using it." She said, "I shall give
you no wine." "Now," he said, "by and
by you will take from us all our luxuries. I
think wine promotes digestion. Did you
never hear of a man who could not eat
cheese without hurting him? then I sup-
pose you would deny me cheese." She re-
plied: "Did you ever hear of a man stand-
ing under a gallows and saying to the wit-
nesses of the execution, 'Now, my friends,
take warning by me, and never eat cheese?'
Or did you ever read in the newspapers
when a man was murdered in the streets
that 'those men had been eating cheese?'
Show to me that cheese produces eight-
tenths of the crime, seven-eighths of the
pauperism, one-half of the lunacy; show to
me that cheese produces the results that
drink does, and by the grace of God I will
battle the cheese just as hard as the wine."
—"Herald of Health."


FACTS AND FIGURES
	ACCORDING to the last census in England
and Wales, the females of the population
outnumber the males by 500,000; but above
the age of twenty-five the males exceed the 
females in number. While there were 400,
000 widowers, there were 873,000 widows.
Above the age of ninety, females number
two to every male.
	AT the annual meeting of the Young
Women's Christian Association of Boston,
recently held,  the receipts for the past year
were stated to be $55,763, including a loan
at $35,000. The amount of $48,686 had
been paid on the home; the expense of car-
rying it had been $11,283.
	AT a recent municipal election in Eng-
land, out of 1000 women on the register,
516 went to the polls, which was but 48 less 
than the proportional number of men. And
out of 27,929 women registered where a con-
test occurred, 14,416 voted. Of men there
were 166,781 on the register, and 90,090 at 
the polls.
	FRANCE, in 1770, had a Landed Feudal
Nobility, she had 164,000 land holders.
England had a Landed Feudal Nobility
with about 156,000 land holders. To-day,
France has 5,000,000 land holders. Eng-
land less than 63,000.
	The people of France are growing rich,
the people of England are fast becoming
paupers. Three-quarters of them are al-
ready so.


In France women control and regulate
opinion. It has long been an aphorism in
France. "L'home fait le lois." "La Femme
fait le moems.
	In England, My Lord makes laws, man-
ners, opinions and wealth; for aristocracy
and manufacturing control, absorb and en-
slave England.
	The reason France has broken her fendal
chains, rooted out her law of primogeniture
and distributed her land among 5,000,000
land holders, is solely attributable to the in-
fluence of woman. Woman in France is
the encouraging element, and France gives
social customs, manners, science, and opin-
ions to the world.
	Thus it is that just in proportion as jus-
tice is done to woman; has liberty, inde-
pendence and elevation followed. England
still regards the wife as the property of the
husband, the idiot, the slave, the nonentity
of legal existence. England has receded.
France has advanced.


FLOWERS.

	HE that preaches gratitude pleads the
cause both of God and men; for without it
we can neither be sociable nor religious.
	FANCIES are the blossoms of facts; purer
and lovelier for their strong hold on truth,
just as the fairest roses are grown in the fin-
est soil.
	LOVE is the fruit of the soul, that when
friends drop away (as leaves thinning) is
more perfectly ripened by the sun that
reaches it from on high.
	CHARACTER is the eternal temple that
each one begins to rear, yet death only can
complete. The finer the architecture, the
more fit for the in-dwelling of angels.
	IT is the most beautiful and humane
thing in the world to mingle gravity with
pleasure, that the one may not sink into
melancholy and the other rise up in wanton-
ness.
	ONE of the saddest things about human
nature is, that a man may guide others in
the path of life without walking in it him-
self—that he may be a pilot and yet a cast-
away.
	STRIVE, strive, my soul to be innocent;
yes, beneficient! Does any man wound
thee? Not only forgive, but work into thy
thoughts intelligence of the kind of pain,
that thou mayest not inflict it on another
spirit. Then its work is done; it will never
search thy whole nature again. Oh, love
much and be forgiven.
	TRUE POLITENESS.—This crowning grace
of character cannot be acquired by the study
of books of etiquette. They indeed are use-
ful as manuals of social intercourse and may
help one in the observance of conventional
rules, but they cannot make the true lady
and gentleman. Genuine politeness strikes
its roots far below the surface, deep in the
heart and blossoms but in all the little acts
of life.


MRS Edna Cheney has been giving a ser-
ies of conversational parlor lectures in De-
troit, to very select companies; her subject
was "Art and Artists."
	POOR Irish woman with six children to
railroad ticket agent: "Please sir, give a
poor widdy with six orphan children a
ticket to Milwaukee?" Ticket agent:
"What have I to do with your orphan chil-
dren? I ain't their father, am I?" Woman:
"That you ain't, sir; their father was a da-
cent man."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	A CELLEBRATED barrister was in the hab-
it of saying, "I always study the feas-ibility
of a case before I undertake it."
	"MY dear sir," said a candidate to a wag
on election day, "I'm glad to see you."
"You needn't be," replied the wag, "I have
voted."
	THE young man who asked the daughter's
hand and got the father's foot, had the con-
solation of knowing that his wooing was
not bootless.
	EVER since we have heard of the Maine
editor named T. Pot, we have been filled
with anxiety to know if a trifle would make
him boil over.
	"Why did you pass yesterday without
looking at me?" said a beautiful woman to
Talleyrand. "Because, madam, if I had
looked I could not have passed."
	THE following notice, written on the door
of the village school, would seem to indi-
cate that the schoolmaster was abroad: "Kea
at the woden house necks door."
	A YOUNG lady while out walking heard
for the first time of her mother's intention
to marry again, and she was obliged to sit
right down and cry about it.  She could
not go a step-farther.	"Now let us talk about your business af-
fairs," said a sharp Connecticut girl to a
young fellow, after he had proposed mar-
riage to her in a long address, filled with ex-
pressions of passionate love.
	IT is reported that a somewhat juvenile
dandy said to a fair partner at a ball: "Miss,
don't you think my mustaches are becom-
ing?" to which Miss replied: "Well sir,
they may be coming, but they haven't ar-
rived yet."
	"AND now, Mrs. Sullivan," said the 
counsel, "will you be kind enough to tell
the jury whether your husband was in the
habit of striking you with impunity."
"Wid what, sir?" "With impunity." "He
was, sir, now and thin, but he sthruck me
oftener wid his fisht."


LITTLE LETTERS.

	HUNTSVILLE, OGDEN VALLEY, May. 
							   10th, 1875. 
DEAR EDITOR: 
	I am a little girl eleven years of age.
We get along very well in Huntsville. We
have had a hard winter, but now spring has
come again, the trees and grass are green,
and men are working in the fields and 
planting gardens.  We have a beautiful
little valley surrounded with mountains.
We had a large funeral yesterday of a very
respected brother, Christian Jensen; he was
fifty years of age; there were thirty teams
that followed him to his grave.  His death
caused a great mourning over our place. 
	My aunt likes your paper very much; it 
gives her such good instructions, and she
delights in reading it.
	We have a young girls' society, and we
are braiding some straw and piecing up a
quilt. 
	Wishing your valuable paper success I 
am, 		Yours Truly:
			JOHANNA PETERSEN LUND. 

			S. L. CITY, June 11th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I am only a little girl and have never
written many letters, but mamma wants
me to write to the EXPONENT,  to encourage


her little girls to express their feelings;
I like to read the "Little Letters" I see
published, it makes me feel as though all
little girls everywhere, talked and acted
something alike.  When I was a very little
girl indeed mamma called me her little Gay;
because I was such a merry little creature;
but I grow so fast I am almost ashamed, be-
cause I am not as good as I ought to be. I
want to be very good indeed; I go to Sun-
day School, and try to understand all that is
said there, and attend our Retrenchment
Meetings, and feel so happy in them. I
hope now that the little girls in the country
will write nice little letters to the paper, and
tell us all about their pleasant homes, and
the woods, groves, canyons and beautiful
streams of water.
	Wishing all the little children in Utah
may grow up to be good and useful, I will
say					Good Bye.
						From LULU


TWILIGHT.

	The blessed time when even the tired
mother feels she can clasp her baby to her
bosom, and listen to the prattle of her child-
ren, and rest!
	As I sat thus one evening, looking upon
the twilight star that trembled like a gem
in the West, clasping my darling baby,
whose lovely lashes were fast seeking the
downy cheek to find the sweet rest afforded
innocence in sleep, my little four-year-old
came, and with suspicious yawn, begged for
a story.  "What shall it be my son?"
"About Jesus mamma."  So I told him in
simple language, the touching story of our
Redeemer.  His eyes never left my face
while I was speaking, and every word
seemed to sink deeply into his little heart.
The story done I left him, with such a
thoughtful look on his sweet face, to put
baby to bed.  Soon I heard him coming and
with streaming eyes, he looked into my
face for sympathy.  "What ails my boy?" I
asked.  "Oh mamma" he sobbed, "I can't
help crying to think our Savior died for us!"
I clasped him in my arms, thanked God for
such a treasure, and prayed I might have
wisdom to ever keep that love alive in the 
tender heart of my child.	My tears flowed with his, and the pathetic
solemnity of that little scene will ever live
in the memory of,
					WINNIEFRED.


For the EXPONENT.
		ANSWER TO INEZ.

	The word "strong minded," as I apply it, and 
as Inez defines it, is very different in its meaning.
I should consider a woman such as she describes
as a strong minded lady, as noble minded, and one
worthy to be imitated.  Strong minded, is an ob-
jectional term to me, for it brings to my mind,
women of the type I have mentioned, although
not necessarially scolds, or uneducated.
	Over twenty years ago, I was acquainted with
the Woman's Rights movement in the States.  It 
was then beginning to be agitated, and from that 
time to this, it has been growing, until it has ac-
quired its present notoriety.  Some of their ideas
are good, some are simply ridiculous, and some are
pernicious, and directly contrary to the gospel.
The idea of women educating themselves practi-
cally, and mentally, is excellent, while to encourage
women in wearing or imitating the dress of man is
ridiculous, and the theory they uphold that wo-
man is equal with man, and has just as much of a
right to govern man, as man has to govern woman,
is wrong.
	The Lord told woman in the garden of 
Eden, her husband should rule over her, and that,


with the rest that was told her, has descended to
her daughters, and we are not exempt. But
where is the man, living in the light of the
Lord, that would rule in tyranny? Love
would be the law of his household, and words of
kindness on his lips; while obedience springing
from love would not be galling.
	We, as Latter-day Saints, should be guided by a
higher power than the Gentiles are, and should
not plunge blindly along, with the cry, "women
have been in bondage, and the day of liberty has
come!" What bondage have the women of
the Latter-day Saints been in? What lib-
erty has burst upon us suddenly? I feel no
more of the sun's rays now, than years ago, no
more liberty, no more freedom.  We have our
agency, and let us use it wisely. Let us be
noble minded, acquire knowledge and all will be
well.
						EMILY B. SPENCER
	St. George.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
	GENERAL DRY GOODS!
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H. E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE and RETAIL FUR-
		NITURE DEALER,
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
		WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, and 79, First South Street.
			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume.
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	  34 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscrition is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4. 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1875.					NO. 3.﻿


[Column 1]
﻿		NOTES AND NEWS.

	MARRY for love, young man, but remem-
ber that  is as easy to love a girl whose pa
has a hundred thousand in the bank as one
whose old man sits up behind a pair of
mules and yells, "Whoa! you Pete, or I'll
take your ear off!"
	THE PRINCE of Wales on his visit to In-
dia, will be accompanied by four representa-
tives, of London Journals. Dr. Russell for
the Times, Mr. Forbes for the News, Mr.
Henty for the Standard; and Mr. Edwin
Arnold for the Telegraph.
	IN WISCONSIN a new law has gone into ef-
fect, providing that every woman over 21
years of age, residing in the district where
certain duties are to be performed, shall be
considered eligible for the following offices:
director, treasurer, clerk of school districts,
director and secretary of town boards, un-
der the township system of school govern-
ment. Members of a board of education in
cities and county superintendents of schools.
	A JUST and sensible scale of salaries has
been adopted by the Board of Education, of
Nashville, Tennessee. They have decided
to pay each teacher for the actual work per-
formed, without distinction in regard to
sex. When directors and law-givers in
general, see fit to lay down the rules on such
equitable terms, women will have less occa-
sion to clamor for their rights than they
now have, and will probably talk less, and
be less talked about.
	IT IS stated now by the Eastern papers,
that the direct cause of the destructive fire
at Holyoke was the use of trimmings etc.
about the altar; also the entire building was
sheathed with pine instead of plaster. The
coronor's verdict condemns those who had
the construction of the interior of the build-
ing, they not having provided sufficiently
for egress therefrom. Already eighty have
died and there are more who are not expected
to survive the effects of that most distressing
catastropher.
	A BOOK recently published by the Rev.
Dr. Jessup, who was seventeen years a
missionary in Syria, gives one some ideas
concerning the people and customs of that
Eastern land. A large part of them speak
the Arabic language, and are devoted follow-
ers of Mohammed. The women among
them are looked upon as something very in-
ferior, and when a baby girl is born, there
is mourning, whereas, at the birth of a boy
there is rejoicing. A Mohammedan Mufti,
in reply to Dr. Jessup suggesting girls being
taught, said, "Teach a girl to read and
write! Why she will write letters, sir, yes,
actually write letters! The thing is not to
be thought of for a moment." There is still
work to do for those who have the means
and ability in elevating the women of that
far-famed land, where our blessed Savior
lived and taught the principles of divine
truth, where He was scourged and beaten,
and at last crucified.
	A WOMAN PREACHING IN ENGLAND.—
	John bull says that another clergyman's
relative has taken to preaching. "Miss
Laura Addiscott, who delivered the ad-
dresses at Deptford on Sunday week, is 

[Column 2]
youngest daughter of Mr. J. L. Addiscott,
and neice of the late Rev. H. Addiscott, of
St. Paul's, Taunton. She is of middle
height, and apparently eighteen years of
age. She conducted the services without
any aid from others. She gave out hymns,
prayed with great fervor, and read the
Scriptures admirably. In the evening she
took her text from a portion of Mark vi.
The address lasted over three-quarters of
an hour. Her appeals were forcible, her il-
llstrations homely, usually the result of per-
sonal observation, and, as a rule, well chosen
and well applied."
	BUNKER HILL'S centennial exhibition
in Charleston, Mass. last month was evi-
dently a grand success. The procession was
ten miles long, consisting of nine divisions,
and was four hours and ten minutes in
passing any given point. The route was
six miles long, from Columbus Avenue to
Winthrop Square. The military is estima-
ted as numbering 11,500 persons and the
aggregate number of the procession 26,000.
Judge Devens delivered the oration, com-
mencing with a WELCOME etc. Next he
expatiated at some length upon the Harvard
men who were engaged there a hundred
years ago; afterwards of Prescott and War-
ren, next the constitution, the duty of con-
cilation, then Sumner, and in conclusion
exhorted the audience to imitate the exam-
ple of those who there fought for civil and
religious liberty, not like the Romans or Gre-
cians for love of war. In the evening an
informal reception was given by the Mass.
Commander of the Loyal Legion of the U.
S., to Gen. Sherman, at the Parker House,
which was largely attended by the most dis-
tinguished people, and was exceedingly
pleasant.


[Column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.
	The following items are from a letter
written to E. W. East, of this city, by El-
der George L. Farrell, who is at present in
the Nottingham conference. The letter
was dated May 25th, 1875.
	After giving some account of his health
and the labors of the brethren in that lo-
cality, and making some inquiries regard-
ing friends and affairs in Utah, he alludes
to othe arduous uphill business of doing any-
thing which has not got money in it, says
"that is about all the people are after, from
the king on  throne, to the merchant,
the minister, the laborer, and even the beg-
gar in the streets.
	"One of our sisters" he says "asked a fine
grown, strong, healthy-looking young wo-
man, who came to the door begging, if it
would not be far better for her to try and
get a situation at some gentleman's house,
than to go through the streets begging as
she was doing. The young girl replied; no
indeed it wouldn't! The sister inquired the
reason; her reply was, it wouldn't pay,
there wasn't money enough in it. The sis-
ter opened her eyes in astonishment, and
asked her if she could get more money by
begging. She answered, "Oh yes! it is a 
very poor street that I cannot get a penny
in and I can visit sixty streets per day and
at least that will clear me five shillings, and

[Column 2]
and I am my own mistress into the bargain. 
	In our travels among the people we find
when men have earned their money, (and
wages are higher now than they used to be)
they hand over a certain amount to their
wives, just as little as they can manage
things with, and the rest they spend in 
drinking, gambling etc. and in passing
through the streets every fourth man you
meet (and some women) have beer, gin
whiskey or rum depicted in bold characters
upon their countenances so plainly that the
passers by cannot help but look, and read;
and many exclaim what a shame for a gov-
ernment like Great Britain to license beer-
shops, gin-places etc. It is plan to be seen
by the world at large, as well as the saitns,
that these very excesses and abominations,
are going to prove the over-throw and de-
struction of the nations.
	I passed through a village of about two
thousand inhabitants the other day, and the
signs over the doors were so thick, that in
the Main Street alone I counted three hun-
dred and seventy-eight, ninety-seven of
which were licensed to sell intoxicating
drinks; which we find is over one-fourth of
the whole; and one would naturally wonder
where the money comes from to support
them all; but when we read the statistical
reports of some of the leading cities, the
problem is solved. I came across some
statistics (a short time ago) of London, ob-
tained from the reports of the London City
Mission, viz.; "It is the largest city in the
world, it covers nearly fifteen miles radius
of Charing Cross, nearly seven hundred
square miles and numbers four millions in-
habitants, including one hundred thousand
foreigners.
	London contains more Jews than the
whole of Palestine, more Roman Catholics
than Rome itself, more Irish than Dublin,
more Scotch than Edinburgh. The port of
London has every day in its waters a thou-
sand ships, and nineteen thousand sailors.
More than a hundred and twenty persons
are added to its pupulation daily, or forty
thousand yearly, a birth taking place every
five minutes, and a death every eight min-
utes. On the Police Register there are
names of a hundred and twenty thousand
habitual criminals, increasing by many
thousands every year.
	There are as many liquor-houses as would,
if their fronts were placed side by side,
reach from Charing Cross, to Portsmouth, a
distance of seventy-three miles. Thirty-
three thousand drunkards are annually
brought before its magistrates, besides the
many thousands of drunkards who are not
brought before  authorities. The shops
open on Sundays would form streets sixty
miles long, and it is estimated that there
are above a million people, who are practi-
cally heathen, wholly neglecting religion."
	Br. Farrell says these facts prove there is
an extensive field of labor, for a good sup-
ply of faithful elders to preach the Gospel
of Jesus Christ; and that the Elders who
are laboring with him in that vicinity, are
using every effort in their power to get the
brethren and sisters to break off from their
old habits of drinking beer, tea, coffee etc.,
and putting their means in the P. E. Fund,
instead; and all who are doing so, are pros-
pered beyond their anticipations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			THE WIFE'S APPEAL
	[A few weeks since the San Francisco "Chronicle" pub-
lished, as did the "Woman's Journal," the vigorous pro-
test of a lady against the advertisement of her husband
warning the public against her on his account. A sub-
scriber to the "Chronicle," Capt. W. Clifford, of 7th U.
S. Infantry, stationed at Camp Baker, Montana Terri-
tory, furnishes the following lines, which will strike a re-
	ponsive chord in many a heart.]
I married him full of bright, fond hopes—married him
		never to part;
I gave him all that a poor girl could, a pure and upright
		heart.
I loved him—ah, I loved him well, with a trusting hope
		and pride;
He was my all, my only one, and I asked no love beside.
And I clung to him for ten long years, followed through
		good and ill,
Though at times the way was thorny and was oftentimes
		up hill.
I worked in the fields through haying, when help was hard
		to obtain;
The money we saved by my toil belonged to our common
		gain.
I worked in the house, I milked the cows—no hired help
		had I—
And strove with a will to make a home. And when the
		night was nigh
I would put the house in order, and him with a smile
		would greet,
Though my hands might be hot and blistered, weary and
		sore my feet.
The children were always tidy, one after another they
		came,
And though they were his as much as mine, I had to beay
		the blame
For their little, heedless, childish faults; and though her
		loved them well,
'Twas "mamma" shielded them from the blows that
		sometimes harshly fell.
His work was done when evening came and shadows of
		twilight fell,
But mine was never ended, as many a mother can tell;
And though at times he was peevish, and flung at me bit-
		ter sneers,
"He loves at heart," I said, and this thought kept back
		the tears
That at times would rise unbidden, when a vision of
		childhood's home—
The dear, dear father and mother, each bush and moss-
		covered stone,—
Would, like a dream of the past, greet my worn and
		weary brain,
And make me long for mother, to be clasped in her arms
		again.
The dear, dear father and mother had been dead for many
		a year;
But they died content, for the man I loved had bade
		them never fear,—
That his love for me was pure and strong, would never
		die away,
He would always, always love me. Now hear what he
		has to say:
"NOTICE.—All persons are hereby warned—and heed this
		well they must—
My wife has gone from my bed and board, and her they
		cannot trust.
Any bills of her contracting I declare I will not pay:
She had no cause for leaving me, whatever she may say.
"She will come back again and work; I will make no ad-
		vance;
To get along in the world a woman has no chance.
She thinks she can live without me. Ha, ha! just wait—
		you'll see.
She'll quit that notion very soon, and humble enough
		she'll be;
For the property both worked for is now all mine by
		law;
And the children, too, I claim as mine,—my titles have
		no flaw,—
She can't get the upper hand of me, no matter how she
		may strive;
Just let her stay away from me and we'll see how she
		will thrive."
By the husband of my youth—my babes' father—this is
		said,
And my name is published far and wide (Oh, would that
		I were dead)
As one unworthy of the confidence of any living soul:
And he treats the matter lightly, as though it were some-
		thing droll.
When we married I had nothing, and he was about the
		same,
But all we have earned together since is held now in his
		name.
I am a woman lone and weak, health, strength and spirits
		gone;
[Column 2]
The laws are not made for women—God of justice, right
		this wrong!
He is a man of honest fame just in his daily life,
To all but his own children and his helpless hard-worked
		wife,—
These he rules with an iron rod, and there can be no ap-
		peal:
To others soft as velvet, to them he is hard as steel.
What right has he to brand me thus, impairing my fair
		fame?
He takes my work, and my darling ones,—must I loose
		my own good name?
The wealth we both have striven for is but half his own
		by right;
But until the laws are altered, 'tis on his side lies the
		might.
Life to me was full of promise of a future clear and
		bright;
Fearless I left the haven where my days had been so
		light.
But the end is dust and ashes, all the promise stained
		with blight,
Wasted years and bitter mem'ries—all my days are turn-
		ed to night.
Shall our wall still fall unheeded? Must our plea be still
		denied?
Mothers arouse! for your daughters lift their voices far
		and wide;
Every cherished, petted darling, fondly loves, nay idol-
		ized,
May feel the degradation of being thus advertized.
Fathers cannot live forever; mothers surely pass away,
Daughters, sisters, toil and suffer, broken hearted every
		day.
Fathers, brothers, change the statutes, to your own
		protection lend;
All we ask is what we work for. Give us thus; and make
		an end
Of laws unjust and cruel. To your love we thus ap-
		peal:
We, your daughters and your sisters, all may yet these
		sorrows feel.
Then before your loved ones leave you to trust another's
		care,
Right these shameful wrongs and evils—father's brother's
		hear our prayer!
	"Camp Baker, Montana."


[Column 1]
﻿			R.S. REPORTS.

	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Retrenchment Associations in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
June 12, 1875, was one calculated to im-
press all present with the importance of
moving forward in the cause of Home In-
dustries.  The speakers seemed endowed
with the spirit of this most esssntial under-
taking.
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne first arose and
in a very earnest manner expressed her
gratitude to God, that she was permitted to
live in this day, and share in all its bless-
ings and privileges.  She referred to the 
Saviour's parable of the net that was cast
into the sea which brought forth fish of all
kinds, and likewise to the parable of the
virgins, some of whom were asleep or un-
prepared, while others were ready to meet
any emergency.  She thought these say-
ings very applicable to this people; urged
the sisters to arouse themselves and exert all
their energies to assist in building up the
kingdom of God, that they might be among
the chosen.  Counselor Z. D. Young follow-
ed with remarks in the same channel, re-
ferred to the community being in a state of
bankruptcy, and that it was in consequence
of importing and not exporting; said it was
the same in other places upon the same
principles; spoke of young people being
flattered and led away by those who did
not believe in our faith, and the responsi-
bility of mothers.  She said it was once
asked of Joseph Smith how he governed
his people, he answered that he taught them
correct principles and they governed them-
selves.
	Counselors E.R. Snow said she felt to say
God bless all those who were starting out even
in a small way and endeavoring to build up

[Column 2]
Zion, but there were few comparatively who
were willing to advance in the undertaking
of being self-sustaining.  She remarked that 
Sister Horne, Sister Barney and herself
were appointed as a committee to obtain
means to purchase machinery to commence
weaving silk; but they had found very few
who were willing to donate unless there
was money in it; filthy lucre had been the
watchword in the world, and now it had be-
come the watchword among the Saints; if
this had not been the case there would have
been millions of mulberry cuttings put out
this spring, and the silk culture would have
been progressing.  She said it was just as a
brother had dreamed, the saints were asleep,
she was thankful there were a few who
came to that meeting, but how very few
compared to the large number of the
saints.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney told the people that
Br. Schettler had mulberry leaves for those
who wished them, and at Br. Piper's there
was a young man who could impart all nec-
essary instruction relative to silk culture.
She felt as Sister Snow did, that all who
would step forward in these branches of
Home Industries would prosper, Baby-
lon would surely fall and then we would be
compelled to resort to home-made, there-
fore it was necessary to make a commence-
ment.
	Br. Wm. Smith who was present ad-
dressed the sisters upon the subject of
mothers teaching true and correct princi-
ples to their children and the bearing it
would have upon them in after life, intro-
duced the subject of faith and of minister-
ing properly to to the sick, prayed God to
bless the sisters and assist them in their
laudable undertakings and expressed his
heart-felt gratitude for being permitted to
come and listen to their instructions.

			SMITHFIELD, May 31st, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Our annual meeting was held May 12th.
After singing and prayer, the Treasurers
report was presented, and accepted.
	President E. T. Morehead made remarks;
was satisfied with the labors of the Society;
exhorted those present to be faithful and to
use their influence for the building up of
Zion, that the people might become self-sus-
taining &c.  Forty-eight sisters were re-
ceived as members of the society.  Several
articles were read from the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. Coun. Adaline Barber made re-
marks; also Sisters Rebecca Roskelly, Jemi-
ma Garnet, and sister Hendrick, from
Richmond.  All spoke well, exhorting those
present to be faithful, to keep in mind their 
duties as Latter-day Saints, spoke of the
blessings in store for those who endure to
the end.
	President Mrs. Morehead then organized
a Retrenchment Association with Adaline
Barber as President.  There are eight Coun-
selors, eight teachers, a Sec'y and Treasur-
er in the organization. I presume their 
Secretary Sarah Ellen Longton, will send
you a report. 		JANE S. COLEMAN.

		PROVO CITY, June 15th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	One or two brief items, in relation to the
progress of the Relief Society of the Fourth
Ward of this city, I submit to you as proof
of the unfaltering labors of the sisters of
this ward.
	In May last, the Seventh Annual Meeting
of the Society was held in the Fourth Ward
School House.  Sister Ruae A. Holden pre-
siding; the meeting was addressed by Pres.
Holden for some time, in her usual pleas-


[Column 1]
﻿ant and instructive manner, closing by con-
gratulating the sisters for their liberality in
supplying the wants of the poor in the ward,
and leaving a respectable surplus in the
treasury. Several other sisters followed
with appropriate remarks in regard to the
duties and mission of the female members
of this Church.
	The Secretary read the annual report of
the finances, which showed that the Society
was in a prosperous condition.
	Considerable means has been contributed
for the purpose of erecting a suitable house
for holding meetings, to work in &c; which
will, we hope, be completed this season.
	We regret very much the absence of Sis-
ter L. W. Kimball, who is now living at
Santaquin. With an-earnest prayer for the
success of the EXPONENT, I remain,
					Respectfully,
		MARGARET A Cluff Secretary.

		WEST WEBER, May 26th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking that is quite time
some of the sisters should write and let
your readers know how we get along in
this part of the vineyard of the Lord. We
meet every four weeks; although our busi-
ness operations are small, we try to cucour-
age each other in the great and good work
we have engaged to assist in.  I feel that
we need a great deal of charity one to-
wards another, that the strong should bear
the infirmities of the weak and try to en-
courage them with kind and gentle words,
and by performing little acts of kindness to-
wards them.  Our president sister Mary
Douglas gives us good, motherly instruc-
tion from time to time.  Our young sis-
ters are getting along well.  And our Sun-
day school under the Superintendency of
Brother Nathan Hawkes, is flourishing
finely.  Your Sister, &c.
				FRANCES B. HART.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE COUNTY, May
						20th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We held our Monthly Meeting on Thurs-
day the 6th inst. Bishop Maughan with
several brethren and a great many sisters
were present.
	Bishop Maughan motioned that we adopt
President Young's counsel in regard to
round dancing; upon which a unanimous
vote was carried in favor of abandoning
them; also that the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety organize a Ladies Retrenchment As-
sociation which was also unanimous.  We
have commenced the summer season of
sewing meetings for the benefit of the
needy, in which some of the sisters take
great interest. On Saturday the 8th inst.,
the ladies made a picnic party out of respect
to our worthy Bishop who has been called
on a mission to Europe.  Two hundred and
sixty persons partook of the bounties of life
with which the tables were spread, and the
glasses of pure water added greatly to the
scene as tea and coffee were entirely dis-
pensed with.  The brass band kindly ren-
dered their services and enlivened all with
their cheering music.  After the tables
were cleared; short and appropriate ad-
dresses were delivered by some of the
brethren and sisters, with singing and dan-
cing.  All who were present enjoyed them-
selves and agreed it was the most pleasant
party we ever had in Wellsville.  We take
pleasure in forwarding subscriptions for
your valuable paper, and hope it will in-
crease as we feel it deserves to do.
			Respectfully,
					E. WHEATON, and
					M. PARKINSON.

[Column 2]
	BIG COTTONWOOD WARD, NEFF'S
				DISTRICT, June 17th, 1875
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being a constant reader of your valuable
paper, and very much interested in the re-
ports from the many different societies, both
Relief and Retrenchment, I will venture
or presume to send you a brief re-
port of our Society.  It was organized
April 3rd, 1875 by Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
Zina D. Young, and Mrs. Presinda Kinball,
with the sanction of our Bishop W. E.
Young. Mrs. E. Boice was chosen Presi-
and six counselors were chosen by her and
unanimously voted in.
	It was considered best by our Bishop to
have Branch Societies as the Ward is very
extensive, the Counselors to preside in the
different districts where they reside, all to
meet monthly at the Ward House.
	At a meeting called by our President Mrs.
Boice, the Bishop being present, Mrs. Liz-
zie Neff was appointed to preside, Mrs. F.
M. Neff Secretary, and Mrs. B. M. Moses,
Treasurer.  We have most excellent meet-
ings, among our best speakers may be men-
tioned Mrs. E. Howard, Mrs. S. Harper,
Mrs. E. Boice, Mrs. H. Brinton  and many
others too numerous to mention, all seem
actuated by a good spirit and a desire for
the welfare of Zion, all see the necessity of
being awake, the great need of each one
taking part in the great work of Retrench-
ment, of refining and perfecting ourselves.
Now that we have an opportunity of repre-
senting ourselves through the medium of
your paper, it seems almost a work de-
manded of us to awake, arise! put on the ar-
mour of wisdom, and make bold to declare
to the world the truth of the mission of
Joseph Smith and his successor Brigham
Young; to advocate the principles of eter-
nal truth, as revealed by them for our salva-
tion and exaltation, the great and glorious
principles of Celestial Marriage, especially,
when we consider how much has been said
against this, and its practice in Utah; and
concerning the condition of woman here;
she is compared with a slave, or represented
to be in abject slavery.
	We know the time has come when wo-
man should express her views, advocate
true and correct principles, and stand up in
her own defense. It is much better to rep-
resent ourselves than to be represented by
others.  There is no place in the world that
woman has better opportunities to improve,
than in Utah; certainly she has perfect free-
dom of speech and press.
	Wishing you success, I am most respect-
fully yours,
			MRS. F.  NEFF, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TURKISH ECCENTRICITIES.—Everything
among the Turks is in contrast with our ex-
periences. The men wear the gay colors and
embroidery, and the women the close veil
and sombre hues. The women wear trou-
sers, and the men a nether garment very
much like a petticoat. Men and not wo-
men do all the work of the household. Mar-
riages are solemnized without the presence
of the parties most concerned, and before
they have even seen each other. A money
value is set upon the bride by her parents,
and agreed to by the parents of the bride-
groom, upon the payment of which the
husband has the right at any time after mar-
riage to return the wife to her friends.
Recently, a daughter of the Grand Vizier
was married and her money value was fixed
at the odd but quite reasonable figure, con-
sidering her social position, of five hundred
add one pounds sterling.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are now in Milan, it is said, 300
American girls studying with a view to the
operatic stage.
	THE total losses by fires in the United
States and Canada during May, were $9,
384,800; to the insurance companies $4,385,
100: by specials $5,455,100; and by specials
to insurance companies $2,600,800.
	THE quarterly returns of consular fees
show a marked decrease for the fiscal year.
Hitherto these fees have aggregated $600,
000 annually. The probable decline for this
fiscal year will be $100,000.
	THE 8th regiment United States cavalry,
which has been stationed in New Mexico
for the past four years, and the 9th cavalry,
which has been in Texas six or eight years,
are to relieve each other.
	GREAT preparations are making at Paris
for the Pilgrimage to Parao-le-Monial,
which begins on the 16th inst., in honor of
the anniversary of the pope’s session, and
it will, without doubt, be the largest for
many years. 
	THIRTY-seven hundred packages of
smuggled cigarettes were seized on the
steamer, City of Mexico, recently.
	THE Hartfords defeated the Yale college
nine at New Haven, June 15th, 12 to 2, and
the Philadelphias the St Louis Red Stockings
at St. Louis, 4 to 3. The New Havens are
reported to have disbanded. They forfeited
a game to the Hartfords at New Haven, re-
cently.
	A SETTLEMENT has been made with Mrs.
Sinclair, the divorced wife of the late Ed-
win Forest, who claimed arrears of ali-
mony and a dower interest in the real es-
tate at New York, Philadelphia and else-
where, and she receives $100,000—a $75,000
mortgage on the Mount St. Vincent prop-
erty at New York and $25,000 in cash.
	The commission to treat with the Sioux
Indians has been increased to eight mem-
bers, and now comprises Senator William
B. Allison of Iowa, Bishop E. R. Ames of
Maryland, ex-Congressman Frank W. Pal-
mer, editor of the Chicago Inter-Ocean,
Brig Gen. Alfred H. Terry, commanding in
Dakota, ex-Congressman Abram Comingo
of Misiouri, Rev. S. D. Henman of Dakota,
G. P. Beavers of Missouri and J. R. Obeine
of New York. Joe. W. Dwyer has been ap-
pointed secretary. The commission has re-
ceived a lot of instruction the substance
of which is that they are to try to make the
best bargain they can with the red-skins,
but the commissioner of Indian affairs—and
a great many other people—doubt whether
any satisfactory settlement can be made.
Each member while on duty gets $8 per
day and necessary expenses.


CORNELL UNIVERSITY is rapidly in-
creasing in fame. The Sage building will
be completed ready for opening in Septem-
ber.  It is 176 feet in length and 162 wide.
It will contain a museum, laboratory, with
several music and lecture rooms; and will
be lighted with gas and warmed by steam.

	AN ADDRESS was delivered to the cadets
at the close of the graduating exercises at
West Point Military Academy, by Secy.
Belknap, June 16th. Afterwards the cadets
were called up in order of merit, and re-
ceived their diploma from the Secretary of
War. Conclusion of the exercises was the
reading of the order of the day.  The grad-
uates numbered forty-three.  President
Young's son, Willard, stood fourth in order
of grade.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Adverting
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesday and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. JULY 1, 1875


[Column 1]
		SPLINTERS.
		  LOCAL.
	Sudden deaths in and about this city,
have marked the last two weeks; several
caused by accidents......A case of small-pox
in Ogden, was recently reported, a conduc-
tor on the C. P. Railroad being the sufferer.
Proper precautions were taken to prevent
the spread of the disease......Alta with its
few citizens have arranged a grand celebra-
tion for the Fourth of July, they are to have
a procession, displays, orations, poems etc.
......The Paulist Fathers Rev’s J. W. Dwy-
er, A. L. Rosecrans, A. B. Brady and W.
Elliot arrived here June 16th, and have
opened their mission in this city and Ophir
......New potatoes grown here were in mar-
ket before the middle of June......The
foundation of the new Co-operative Store is
being laid......Hon. J. R. Kelley, United
States Senator from Oregon, paid a visit to
this city, arriving here June 16th......Mrs.
Oates Comic Opera company filled a success-
ful engagement of three nights at the
Theatre June 17th, 18th, and 19th......An
epidemic sore throat is raging in Coalville,
in many cases proving fatal.....The Old
Deseret Bank building has been taken down
and the debris is being cleared prepara-
tory to commencing the new building......
Montgomery Queen's Circus and Menagerie,
gave afternoon and evening entertainments
on Washington Square, June 21, 22, and 23,
of course they drew large crowds and have
probably taken $10,000 profits......There is
to be a Grand Celebration Ball in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms July 5th.
Ogden will celebrate the Fourth of July on
Monday the fifth with a grand parade, part
of the Fire Brigade of this city have been
invited......Classes have been organized for
teaching the Spanish language in this city.
.....Work on the Seventh Ward Meeting
House is progressing......The Sunday School
examination at the Sixteenth Ward school-
house, Sunday morning June 20th, was very
creditable to pupils and teachers, and to the
Supt. Mr. H. Emery......An itinerant mu-
sician minus one leg, is entertaining our
citizens with the melody of a hand organ,
which he moves around by means of a
hand cart.
			GENERAL.
	Commencement at Swarthmore College
Pa., took place June 15th......A deputation
of ladies from Charlestown District, waited
on Mayor Cobb of Boston June 18th, re-
questing him to enforce the Sunday law of
closing drug stores, bake shops etc......Wm.
I. Bouditch’s valuable pamphlet upon "Tax-
ation of Women" in Mass., has already
reached its third edition......James Free-
man Clarke and his daughter Lillian, have
completed a volume of translations from
the German Poets, called the "Exotics"......
Madame Thiers at present occupies the pos-
ition in the world of fashion formerly held
by the Empress Eugenie......Hon. S. E.
Sowall has prepared for publication the re-
vised statutes of Mass. concerning the per-
sonal and property rights of wives, mothers
and widows......The New York State Wo-
man Suffrage Society held its final meeting
for the season in Brooklyn, the second week
in June......The annual meeting of the
“Progressive Friends" was held at Long-
wood, Chester County, Pa., June 10th, this
meeting invites to fellowship all who are in-
terested in the triumph of good over evil
......The Sorosis sisters of New York have
resolved not to patronize those stores and
shops where women are kept standing all
day......The American Association for the
[Column 2]
advancement of science will hold its annual
meeting in August, at Detroit, Mich......The
attempt made to impeach the President of
Mexico was a failure......The illustrations of
Shakespeare, for Cassell which are being
prepared by Gustave Dore, will bring him
it is said $50,000....The annual examina-
tion of the United States Naval Academy
at Annapolis, Md. began June 10th......Miss
Alice Singer, daughter of the sowing ma-
chine inventor was married in England to
Mr. La Grove of Brooklyn, Thursday June
11th, her dower is one million......It is fully
anticipated that Chicago will be decided up-
on as the location for the new mint, the
proximity of Lake Superior and the direct
communication with Cal. and Nevada mines
being in its favor, also the Swansea smelt-
ing works.....St. Louis has had a deluge of
rain, it is said 12 feet of water fell in 20
minutes; houses in various parts of the city
were rendered untenantable......The Presi-
dent visited the building and grounds for
the centennial exhibition at Philadelphia,
the 18th of June......Great fire at Grand
Rapids, Michigan, involving a loss of $150,-
000 June 19th......Deputy U. S. Marshals
Allen and Blood of Texas, have been in-
dicted and arrested for allowing McCartney
the counterfeiter to escape.
			PERSONAL.
	Prof. Joseph Winlock, a distinguished as-
tronomer and director of the observatory at
Cambridge, Mass., died very suddenly June
11th..... Hon. Thomas H. Selby Ex-Mayor
of San Francisco, died in that city Wednes-
day June 10th......The Rev. Horace James,
once Secretary of The American and For-
eign Christian Mission, died at Boylston,
Mass., June 9th......Arthur Dyer, a New
York Journalist aged 20, shot himself June
10th......Mr. Motley, the historian, has had
an attack of paralysis from which it is
feared he will never sufficiently recover to
resume his literary labors......Wm. B. Alli-
son, Senator from Iowa, has been appointed
chairman of the convention to negotiate
with the Sioux in relation to the Black
Hills......Mrs. John Wilcox died in San
Francisco Wednesday June 16th, from the
effects of chloroform administered previous
to having a surgical operation performed.
			FOREIGN.
	Very heavy failures of business houses in
London, are reported recently........Great
damage to property and loss of life by the
flood of the river Garonne in France......The
London Times report a rebellion in Burmah
A terrible earthquake at Circuita, S. A. is
said to have leveled every wall in the city,
and buried at once 8,000 people......There is a
current report that Garcia, who stole one of
Murillo’s pictures from the Seville Cathe-
dral, has been shot......The Levant Herald
speaks of a very deadly plague among the
Montific Arabs spreading over considerable
country......At Versailles, June, 26th, they
celebrated the anniversary of the death of
Gen. Hoche.....The Irish and American
riflemen have done some fine shooting at
Dollymount......The Grand Lodge of Mas-
ons gave a banquet to the visiting marks-
men, who were of the masonic order......In
France a bill has been recently published
regulating the newspaper press......Cholera
in India is much worse than usual this
year......Victor Hugo has realized by
his pen, during a celebrated literary ca-
reer, over $600,000......An illustrated life of
Bismarck, is about being published in Leif-
zig......The people of Greece are raising a
private subscription to erect a monu-
ment in honor of Lord Byron......Mr. Ev-
elyn Bellen, son of the late well known read-
[Column 3]
er, is about to make his debut as Hamlet,
on a London stage......There is some appre-
hension of a crisis at Athens, which is
feared might result in the abdication of
the King......At the opening of a hall in
London lately, by the Rev. Mr. Spurgeon,
12,000 Persons were present......Composer
Offenbach has recovered, and will shorly re-
sume his work......The American residents
of Berlin with members of the Diet, and
Professors of Berlin University gave a grand
dinner recently to Carl Schurz......Charles
De Remusat, the eminent French author
and politician is dead.....221,034 francs
were realized by the sale of Millet’s paint-
ings in Paris......Portugal has emancipated
her slaves......Coleman Hunt's painting,
the "Shadow Of Death" has been exhibited
in Manchester, and visited by 50,000 people
......Lord Derby was visited by an anti-sla-
very deputation June 2nd, he refused to
mediate between Spain and the insurgents
of Cuba......A law has been passed in Rome.
condemning to a months' imprisonment for
the first offense for blaspheming in the
streets, either God, Christ, the Virgin or the
Saints, and six months for the second of-
fense.


﻿A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS

	One of the greatest topics of discussion in
this age, is the proper and appropriate sphere
and position of woman; what she can do, and
ought to do, and is capable of doing. What
she is likely to become in the future from
mixing in the society of the opposite sex.
All these, and a thousand more questions
naturally arise as woman moves forward
in the scale of advancement, and the world be-
gins to understand more of her capabilities
for actual performance of work, which involves
talent, energy, enterprise and skill in execution.
	Colleges and Universities are now open to
women, the bar (the pulpit even) the lecture
hall, and many other  occupations for those
who have the faculty, the ability, and the mor-
al courage, to face opposition, to withstand
criticism and defy ridicule.
	That there is now (and every day widening)
a broader field of labor open to woman, a high-
er cultivation of her brain, a more just appre-
ciation of her merits and attainments, among
the best and truest of mankind, are facts which
have become visibly apparent. Unders[---]
are not meaning that this higher type of wo-
manhood is what pleases mens' fancy, because
“the embodiment of the masculine ideal" the
"womanly woman" which they hold forth for
our admiration, is all helplessness, dependence,
un-reliant, self-depreciating, "gushing, trans-
cendental," and superficial, a worshipper of
idols, and these idols themselves.
	And when they have given woman this


[Column 1]
standard of human perfection, with sweet
words of flattery and precious bits of advice,
what then? What indeed? After fostering
these weak, "childish sentimentalisms" after
rendering them too lovingly blind to be able to
guard themselves against "designing and con-
scienceless men," they are the very ones who
make them weep bitter tears of humiliation,
if not remorse.
	Is it not time that men gave woman encour-
agement in being practical, earnest, strong-
minded, self-reliant, original, (if you will,) that
she should feel she had an agency of her own,
independent of man? Will not women seek
more earnestly to strengthen their intellect
and correct their judgment when they can be
convinced there is a responsibility resting upon
them, which will effect not only themselves,
their children, and their immediate circle of
acquaintances, but more or less influence soci-
ety at large, the country in which they dwell,
the government which bears sway over all.
	While men are determined to keep women
subordinate, they will of course pamper these
"defects in her, because it is flattering to their
own self-love," and they cry out, "We want
women left us and not female men," and talk
and write, about making room for a "third
sex."
	Men who can see a lack in woman's education
are scarcely willing to concede their capabil-
ities, even when differently and more thorough-
ly educated. A very fine writer has said, in
answering common objections, that one of very
frequent recurrence is, that "Women would be-
come the rivals of their husbands, instead of
their companions." A writer in the "Wo-
man's Journal," commenting upon it says:
"Not until love was suppressed—its foundation
will be wider—it will be less blind, and pro-
duce fewer troubles." This writer says (speak-
ing, of course, of the age in which he lived
fifty years ago,) "In Paris the highest praise
for a marriageable girl  to say, she has great
sweetness of character and the disposition of a
lamb." And when he alludes to women be-
coming authors, he does not at all relish the
idea of living ones, but seems disposed to allow
the publication of their works after their death,
"like Madame De Stael." He goes on to say,
"to print anything for a woman under fifty is
to risk her fate in the most terrible of lotteries;
if she is so fortunate as to have a lover, she
will lose him to begin with."
	But this writer, much as he seems "to shrink
from the idea" of women authors "makes a
generous exception when a woman needs to
support her family by writing," and also ad-
mits the indirect influence of women on lit-
erature."
	The extracts made from this work by the
writer in the "Woman's Journal," are worthy
of being copied for the perusal of all intelligent
women; they afford subjects for serious reflec-
tion, and give us an idea of what a man of re-
finement and cultivated intellect considered
woman's highest prerogative, half a century
ago.
	One particular paragraph strikes us as being
something peculiarly calculated to inspire
women to adopt other and higher ideas, than
those of pandering to man's tastes and appe-
tites; it is this. "Most men have a period in
their career  when nothing seems impossible.
The ignorance of women spoils for the hu-
man race this magnificent opportunity; and
love, at the utmost, inspires a young man to
learn to ride well, or to make a judicious se-
lection of a tailor."
	In view of these facts and many others, does
it not behoove us to create for ourselves a

[Column 2]
higher standard, and having fixed upon it, be
firm in our resolves to attain whatever is possi-
ble, with the weapons we have to work with,
and the tide of opposition we must stem?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COlumn 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received interesting reports from
R. S. Societies in Provo, Payson and Virgin,
which we are compelled to lay over until our
next issue, for want of space.
	ANOTHER NEWSPAPER whose local editor is
a woman, is now being published in Ogden.
Success to all women journalists whose object
is to assist in the diffusion of light and knowl-
edge, and the spread of truth.
	AMONG THE many distinguished visitors who
have passed through our city within the last
month, was Lieut. Carl Eugene Graf Von
Bismarck Boxlen, nephew of the celebrated
statesman.
	WE LEARN by a late private letter from
Kanab, Kane Co., that the health of the peo-
ple in general, in that locality, is good. Crops
are promising fairly, but later this season than
usual; and the peaches were mostly killed by
recent frosts.
	THE RELIEF Society Fair at Bountiful,
Davis Co., opened for one week on Thursday,
June 24th. The object, to obtain means to
build a Society Hall. Committee of arrange-
ments were Mrs. E. Barlow, Mrs. L. Sessions,
Mrs. M. J. Crosby, and Mrs M. Carter. They
displayed excellent taste in the arrangement of
the affair, and deserve great credit for their en-
ergy and enterprise, in rendering it so attrac-
tive.
	LAST EVENING, June 30th, closed the en-
gagement of the celebrated English opera. It
has been a rich treat for the music loving peo-
ple of Salt Lake. The opening performance of
"Il Trovatore," Thursday June 24th was some-
thing unparalleled in this locality. The dis-
tinguished character of the piece itself, and
the superb voices of the ladies and gentlemen,
who sustained the most difficult parts, together
with the charming and full choruses were all
calculated to inspire an enthusiastic admira-
tion for the divine art of music, in the atten
tive and appreciative audience.
	A LETTER from Mrs. E. S. Barney of this
city, who is traveling in company with Sisters
E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, and E. Howard,
through some of the Southern settlements,
gives some  pleasing information concerning
their labors. The letter was dated June 22nd,
at Moroni, Sanpete Co., where they had held
a meeting with the sisters the previous even-
ing. President Young and several of the
brethren were present at the meeting. Pres.
Young spoke most encouragingly to the sisters,
and said he would appoint them a mission to
visit every settlement in Sanpete County and
see that they were properly organized and set
to work. A two days meeting was held by the
President and brethren in Fort Ephraim June
22nd, and 23rd.
	MR. AXTELL has scarcely had time allowed
him to form personal acquaintance with the
people and affairs of Utah, after being sent
here as governor, when, with no perceptible
excuse for change, he is removed to New
Mexico, and Judge G. W. Emery, of Tennessee,
is appointed to the governorship of this Terri-
tory in his stead. East and west, this move-
ment is looked upon with a degree of wonder
and commented upon by the press; various
opinions are advanced, but like other political
ransactions in relation to Utah. it is not

[Column 2]
clearly understood by any one. It is, how-
ever, certain that the people of Utah have
need to learn correct principles, and wisely
govern themselves, for they are obliged to take
their governors as they are sent, one after an-
other, whether they prove to be good, bad or
indifferent. Judge Emery, we believe, bears a
fair character, and we hope will prove a wise,
and judicious governor.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of a circular
from the Deseret University of 1874—5, from
Dr. J. R. Park, Principal. Many thanks for
the same. The Spring term of this institution
closed June 22nd. After the examining exer-
cises the teachers were presented by the pupils,
with some elegantly bound volumes of poems.
J. F. Wells made a few appropriate remarks
on the presentation, which received an affec-
tionate response from the principal, in behalf
of the recipients. The following term will
commence Aug. 23rd. The University Reading
Rooms will be closed during vacation. Ar-
rangements are being made for holding a Nor-
mal or Teachers Institute in this city under
the auspices of Supt. Riggs, to be conducted by
Dr. J. R. Park, whose success and experience
are so widely known. The design is to give to
the teachers of the territory, a thorough know-
ledge of the best methods of instruction. It is
expected to open Aug. 2nd, and close Aug. 
14th, 1875.
	THE AMATEUR exhibition of Miss M. E. Cook's
Graded School, which was under the direction
of her assistant Miss Emma Wells, was a
pleasant and interesting affair. The pro-
gramme contained a charming variety, music,
singing, recitations etc. One scene, from
Henry the IV was creditably rendered by the
young Misses. Charade, The Sleeping Beauty
in which the little ones did splendidly; Miss
Edith Clawson the young prince. Miss Mabel
Young the enchanted princess, Miss Lulu
Wells the Kings' jester; each displayed con-
siderable talent in a small way. Misses Lulu
and Callie Wells sang "Beautiful Gates Ajar,"
very sweetly. Miss Annie Wells read a vale-
dictory. Miss Belle Pugsley for, and in behalf
of the principal, presented some very fine
volumes of poems to the teachers, as a tes-
timony of her esteem and satisfaction. Miss
Cook has been untiring in her efforts to train
and instruct these young lady teachers and
bring them up to her standard of systematic
teaching. It is anticipated Miss Cook will go
East soon on a visit to her friends.
	IN OUR number of June 15th, several items
of Home Affairs were necessarially omitted,
which would not now possess the same amount
of interest; but the anniversary of the birthday
of our worthy President Brigham Young, cannot
fail to be pleasing to our readers, even though a
month has passed. Mrs. M. Dougal, and Mrs,
P. Beattie, (two of his married daughters) ar-
ranged a surprise party at the Lion House, in
honor of their father's seventy-fourth birthday
the first of June 1875. The programme was in
perfect taste, and the re-union was particularly
pleasant and satisfactory. A sumptuous and
elegant dinner was spread, for about one hun-
dred and fifty persons, all of them children,
grand children, and near relatives. A magnifi-
cent cake was presented to him on the occasion,
which they deferred cutting until the birth-
day of Mrs. M. A. Young, June 8th. We most
respectfully wish him many happy returns of
the day, with health and strength to enjoy the
blessings of life, and that he may live to see
his most sanguine hopes realized in the build-
ing up of the Kingdom of God upon the earth. 
	We would also mention here the anniversary
of the birthday of our Presiding Bishop, Edward
Hunter. June 22nd, he was eighty-two years
old. We congratulate him on reaching such a
venerable age, so hale and hearty, and wish
him as many more years of practical usefulness,
as his hospitable and generous nature could de-
sire.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION,

	TO MY MOTHER ON HER BIRTHDAY.

Dear Mother! hear the knell of time
Proclaim once more with measured chime
The day of joy, that gave thee birth
Among the noblest of the earth;
When prophets and inspired men
The Priesthood hold on earth again.
To Joseph Smith the angels brought
The self-same truths thy fathers sought.
To them this privilege was denied;
Without the Gospel they have died.
For thee has been reserved the right,
This precious boon of Gospel light,
Ordained before this world has sprung
From chaos, other worlds among,
A great and glorious work to do
For kindred dead. Oh then be true
To all the cov'nants thou hast made?
Thy life has been a mixture more of shade
Than sunshine. Yet for  everlasting truth
Of heaven, embraced by thee in youth,
The afflictions of the saints thou hast shar'd
Their sorrows thou hast seen and heard.
When driven forth by human fiends,
Among their number thou wert seen
Rejoicing in the God of love,
Who suffered this, His Saints to prove;
For He had said "they must be tried
As gold when seven times purified."
Husband and child were buried too,
In the fair city of Nauvoo;
And there their precious forms will lay,
Until the resurrection day
Brings forth the spirits of the just,
Those who in Christ have placed their trust.
When trying scenes thou wert passing through
Thy faith most firm, still stronger grew
That God in power and mercy would
These trials over-rule for good.
And O what blessings are in store
For thee with many thousands more
Of faithful saints who yet may stand
Upon Mount Zion's favored land.
No eye hath seen or mortal heard
What Jesus hath for those prepared,
Who've humbly sought His will to do
And kept the faith loyal and true.
May'st thou, dear Mother live to know
Many more pleasant years below.
May thy posterity increase
In goodness, purity and peace,
And in the great Millennial Morn
Radiant as stars thy crown adorn.
			YOUR LOVING DAUGHTER,
									  M. A. F.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Suet Pudding.—One cup suet, half-cup molass-
es, one and one-half cups sweet milk, three cups
flour, two spoons baking powder, one cup raisins,
one cup currants; butter the pan and steam two
and one-half hours.
	Chocolate Custard.—Prepare chocolate with a
quart of milk as you would for the beverage.
When this has boiled sufficiently to quite dissolve
the chocolate, add a tablespoonful of corn starch,
thinned with milk. Have beaten two eggs and a
cupful of sugar, into which gradually pour the
boiling chocolate. Return the whole to the fire,
and boil long enough to cook the eggs, say two
minutes, stirring constantly; don't forget a pinch
of salt.
	Preserving Gooseberries.—Among the many
ways I have tried, by way of experiment, to keep
gooseberries for winter use, I have finally decided
the following to be the best, surest, and least ex-
penditure of money and time:—Put one gallon of
dressed and washed berries in a porcelain kettle,
with just enough water to avoid burning until the
steam turns the top ones white, over which sprinkle
two thirds of a cup of brown sugar; cover close
and set over a brisk fire. As soon as they boil up
enough to slightly cook those on top and melt the
sugar, spread upon plates and set in the sun to
dry. (The juice must be turned on with the ber-
ries). Turn over with a knife; a few times dur-
ing the hottest part of the day, being careful not
to smash the berries. As soon as dry, heat in the
oven, to avoid the possibility of worms. When


nearly cool pack in stone jars, and if well covered
and tied they will keep for years.
	Southern Kansas, May, 1875.		A. H.
	Strawberry Shortcake.—With one quart of sift-
ed flour mix thoroughly two teaspoonfuls of
cream-tartar and one of soda, or the equivalent of
these in baking powder; rub in a bit of butter the
size of an egg, a little salt, and sweet milk enough
to form a soft dough; roll half an inch thick and
bake in a shallow pan 15 or 20 minutes; have
ready two quarts of fine fresh strawberries; split
the cake, place half the strawberries between and
cover thickly with white sugar and cream; put the
other half on the top and cover in the same way;
serve as soon as done.
	Stewed Water-Cresses.—Water-cresses are very
delicious stewed.  They should be placed in strong
salt and water to free them from insects, after
which they should be carefully picked over, the
water drained off, and then put into a stewpan with
a lump of butter and a little pepper and salt; a few
minutes will suffice to render the cress quite ten-
der.  A little vinegar may be added just before
serving, but this must be according to taste.
	To Prevent Lamp Chimneys from Cracking.—
Put the chimneys in a kettle of cold water and
heat gradually until the water boils, and let it cool
as gradually.  As the heat from the lamp flame be-
comes more and more intense the chimneys will
expand and contract without causing them to break
or crack.—Rural New Yorker.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	After Dinner naps.—Many persons are in the
habit of sleeping for half an hour immediately af-
ter dinner. Ten minutes' sleep before dinner is
worth more than an hour after. It rests and re-
freshes and prepares the system for vigorous diges-
tion. If sleep is taken after dinner, it should be
in a sitting posture, as the horizontal position is
unfavorable to healthful digestion. Let those who
need rest and sleep during the day take it before
dinner instead of after, and they will soon find
that they will feel better and that their digestion
will be improved thereby.
	Work as a Remedy.—Dr. Dio Lewis says: A
lady has just left our rooms whose case illustrates
an important idea. Ten years ago she was an in-
valid. Her malady was obstinate, and at the end
of a year's treatment a consultation resulted in the
opinion that her case was cerebro-spinal irritation,
from which she would probably never recover.
Six years ago her husband died. His estate
proved insolvent. The wife engaged in an active
occupation to support her three children. In a
year she was well, and has remained so ever since.
	There are two million dyspeptics in America.
Nine in ten of them could be cured by work,
	A wealthy clergyman from a neighboring State
assured us that he had spent eight years and thirty
thousand dollars in seeking a cure for his dyspep-
sia. He had traveled everywhere and consulted all
sorts of doctors. We are afraid he will never for-
give us for telling him that six month's hard work
would make a well man of him.
	How He Lived Ninety Years.—"With a good
appetite, three times a day, delicious sleep, not an
ache or pain in the whole body, the mind all the
time fully alive to what was going on in the
world, and all the time in good spirits." This was
said of the late ex-Governor Thorpe of New York.
It is added.
	He retired at nine, and rose at six, taking a nap
in the forenoon, and sometimes in the afternoon al-
so; breakfast at eight, dinner at one, and tea at
sundown. In suitable weather he spent a greater
part of the forenoon in his garden directing his
men, and assisting them, and for a short time in
the afternoon he was employed in the same way.
He used no spirituous liquors, but took claret wine
every day at dinner.

[Column 2]
	There are three things here noted, which if per-
sistently carried out in early life would do more
than all others towards giving all an enjoyable old
age, viz: regularity in eating, abundant sleep, and a
large daily exposure to out-door air.
	Regularity in eating, either two or three times a
day, with nothing whatever between meals, not an
atom of anything, would almost banish dyspepsia
in a single generation; as frequent eating is the
cause of it in almost all cases, especially if irregu-
lar and fast.
	Abundant sleep and rest from childhood make
nervous diseases a rarity; to insufficiency of regu-
lar sleep, and insufficiency of rest, may well be at-
tributed nine-tenths of all sudden deaths, and a
premature wearing out before the age of sixty
years. All hard workers, whether of body or
brain, ought to be in bed nine hours out of the
twenty-four, not that so much sleep is required,
but rest, after the sleep is over; every observant
reader knows how the system yearns for rest, after
a good sleep and it is a positive gain of energy
to indulge in it.
	Every hour that a man is out of doors is a pos-
itive gain of life, if not in a condition of chilliness,
because no in-door air is pure; but pure air is the
natural and essential food of the lungs, and the
purifier of the blood, the want of which purifica-
tion is the cause or attendant of every disease;
while every malady is alleviated or cured by an
exposure to out-door air. If city wives and daugh-
ters would average two or three hours every day in
active walking in the open air, it would largely
add to the exemption from debility, sickness and
disease, and would materially add to the domestic
enjoyment and the average duration of life.—Ru-
ral New Yorker.


EVE'S CURSE.

      IS IT NEVER TO BE REMOVED?

	Mrs. Emily B. Spencer, in her first letter
to the EXPONENT has said: "I think a great
deal of the strong minded principles of the
Gentiles are creeping in among us."
	And in the second letter, speaking of the
Woman's Rights movement in the States,
she says: "Some of their ideas are good,
some are simply ridiculous, and some are
pernicious and directly contrary to the gos-
pel. The idea of women educating them-
selves practically, and mentally, is excel-
lent; while to encourage woman in wearing
or imitating the dress of  man is ridiculous,
and the theory they uphold that woman is
equal with man, and has just as much of a
a right to govern man, as man has to gov-
ern woman, is wrong."
	Now, how are we to judge what portion of
the strong minded principles of the out side
world, Mrs. Spencer thinks is creeping in
among us? May we not hope, and have we
not occasion to believe that it must be the
one correct principle to which she alludes, a
higher type of education for woman than
she has been wont to consider necessary for
her to obtain? I have never known of
man's dress for woman, or anything approx-
imating thereso, having been advocated
among Latter-day Saints. Nor is it the
opinion of anyone believing the true Gos-
pel, so far as I am aware, that woman should
rule or govern man.
	But according to the teachings of our best
recognized authority, every good wife
should stand as a counselor to her husband;
not to direct, but to counsel in righteous-
ness.
	(Realizing the truth of those words of
the ancient prophet, that "in a multitude
of counselors there is safety," the above
theory, probably, is one reason why our
whole hearted Mormons are willing to ex-


ist in the midst of a multitude of wives.)
	Mrs. S. says:  "The Lord told woman in
the garden of Eden, her husband should
rule over her, and that, with the rest that
was told her, has descended to her daugh-
ters, and we are not exempt."
	All this is true enough, but was the sen-
tence never to be revoked? I have an idea
that the curse that was placed upon Eve by
a merciful and loving Father, was not de-
signed to stand unmitigated, unalterable for-
ever. And although Mrs. S. "feels no more
of the sun's rays now than years ago, no
more liberty, no more freedom," and ques-
tions "What liberty has burst upon us sud-
denly?" It appears to me very forcibly
and plainly, that since the Gospel light
beamed upon the world in this dispensa-
tion, one of the prime objects of those who
have received it in spirit and in truth, has
been the real elevation of woman, the cer-
tain placing of her in her proper sphere.
And is it not given to those who have re-
ceived the true light, to diffuse its genial
rays over the whole earth, that all who will
may learn the ways of the Lord, and all na-
tions be blest?
	What higher, purer, holier cause can we
ascribe to the bestowal by God and the ac-
ceptance of His people, of the revelation
concerning Celestial Marriage, than that the
condition of woman, as it was, might be
improved? Think of it.
	Do not the elders tell us now, that the
young ladies in our midst have power to do
what they cannot, with all their preaching,
teaching and exhorting, in the matter of
"putting down round dancing," leading the
young men to seek true culture, morality
and refinement? Our honored Prophet and
leader has himself said that "The Relief
Societies can take hold of the home indus-
tries and make co-operation a success; and
thus bring about the United Order. Does
that sound as though woman should be con-
sidered so very much inferior to man?
	I do not wish to be understood as one ad-
vocating woman's right to rule. But I
mean this, which was written years ago by
an older and wiser woman than myself:
	"I have apologies to offer here
	For Gentile ladies who disclaim their sphere/
	Having obtained enough of truthful light—
	To see life's strange perversion of the right;
	They seek with noble, yet misguided aim,
	Corruption and abuses to reclaim;
	But all their efforts to remove the curse
	Are only making matters worse and worse.
	They could as well unlock without a key,
	As change the tide of man's degeneracy;
	Without the holy priesthood, 'tis at most.
	Like reck'ning bills in absence of the host."
									Inez.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MODOC AT CHURCH.

	One tolerably good thing is reported of
that small section of the Modoc tribe now
on a tour throughout the country at the ex-
pense of and for the profit of two or three
white men.  One of these Indians recently
taught several small boys how to conduct
themselves in church.  The Indians, it
seems, took Lexington, Ky., in their tour
and chanced to be there on a Sunday, when
several of them attended the Baptist Church
to observe the white man's way of propitia-
ting the Great Spirit and smoothing the
way to the happy hunting-grounds. As a
matter of course where the Indians were
there were the small boys also, and a com-
pany of the youths managed to secure seats
directly in front of the noble red men where
curiosity could be thoroughly gratified.
When the sermon began the boys turned
round and stared at the Indians uninterupt-


edly, never flagging a bit in the gaze of
open-mouthed wonder. The Indian, as a
rule, is stoical, but he was not stoical enough
to endure the gimlet look of these boys,
which became, finally, unendurable.  One
of the Modocs, forced to action, leaned sud-
denly forward and seized a boy's head as
though he wanted a scalp, but he didn't
make any attempt to secure that trophy.
He simply twisted the boy's head around
until it looked in the direction of the min-
ister, and at the same time a significant ges-
ture to the other boys caused them to look
the same way.  Never did boys pay better
attention to a sermon than those of Lex-
ington during the remainder of the exercis-
es, and the Modoc demonstrated that he
had in him big material for a Sunday-
school superintendent.—"St. Louis Republi-
can."


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Stanton gives some logical reasons
why women do not accomplish as much
work as men; in short she boldy asserts,
they are not dressed to work, but to kill.
	DONNA Maria, the wife of Don Alfonzo,
is described as being slim and fair-haired,
with lively, dark blue eyes; the reverse of
the Amazon she might be supposed to ap-
pear.
	IN Australia at the University of Mel-
bourne, ladies are admitted to pass the mat-
ricultural examination. Out of three hun-
dred candidates for admission fifty-seven
were ladies. This is a good recommenda-
tion for the women of that country.
	MISS Emily Faithful in speaking of so-
ciety and industry in Paris, says that a per-
fect equality exists between the sexes in 
business matters. Women keep hotels, fac-
tories, shops and are often the efficient busi-
ness partners of their husbands.
	QUEEN Victoria's fifty-sixth birthday
which was the first week in June was cele-
brated throughout England and the United
Kingdom, and by Englishmen generally in
the different countries where they were re-
siding. This amiable and excellent Queen
has reigned nearly thirty-eight years, being
a longer period than that of any other sov-
ereign in Europe.
	MADAME Bonaparte of whom we gave
our readers a brief sketch a short time since,
is attracting the attention of some of the
"literati" on account of her writings. Re-
cently she was offered $10,000 for her man-
uscript volumes, but the old lady refused to
sell them at any price. For forty years she
 has kept a diary constantly; it is supposed
she has written much of society, both in
Europe and America during these years,
which cannot fail to be entertaining, and re-
port says she is severe in sarcasm. It is
most probable her writings will be published
after her death.
	MISS Sarah Clarke, sister of James Free-
man Clarke who resides in Rome, is em-
ployed upon a series of sketches of the pla-
ces visited by Dante and mentioned in his
writings. She has visited in person all these
places; the work has occupied her for the
last four or five years, involoving a vast
amount of study, research and travel. The
work was ordered by Mrs. Mitchell of Mil-
waukee wife of the Congressman. An-
other copy of the same series is also
being made for Lady Ashburton, and the
intention is to have the designs etched so
as they can be engraved. Miss Clarke has
an artistic apartment overlooking the
grounds of the Barberini Palace.
[Column 2]
	MISS F. Mann, of Philadelphia, was one
of the victims of the fearful wreck of the
Schiller. She was returning to Germany to
pursue her art studies at Munich. She is
said to have possessed rare genius, and
would probably, have been most successful
as a portrait and historical painter; added to
this she was endowed with considerable
musical talent, and superior intelligence.
She was of an amiable and interesting char-
acter, qualified to adorn and benefit the cir-
cle in which she moved. She was only
nineteen years of age. Her death was truly
a sad bereavement and she will be most sin-
cerely mourned by all who had the pleasure
of knowing her.
	MRS. M. M. Elliot of Minneapolis, Minn.
delivered an original poem at the celebra-
tion of Decoration Day in that city. The
people of Minnesota seem to possess a liber-
al feeling for the rights of women, in se-
lecting one for the poet of the day. Her
eloquence and style, as well as the poem it-
self, appear to have been truly appreciated
by all present. This is something a little
out of the ordinary channel, and is another
proof of advancement of the cause of wo-
man.
	LADY Murchison, wife of the late Sir Rod-
erick I. Murchison was certainly a very su-
perior woman, and seemed to have exerted
an influence, which animated her husband
to successfully pursue those pursuits which
eventually brought him fame, title and mer-
ited distinction. At the time of their mar-
riage he was a Captain of dragoons, and had
seen some real service at the battle of Ve-
meira. After his marriage he sold his com-
mission, and thought of going into the
church, and taking a country parsonage; sim-
ply because he was fond of riding after the
hounds, a privilege allowed to the Vicar,
and his wife was fond of botany, gardening,
and ministering to the poor. But the wife
would not be content, her aspirations were
above cas socks, so she persuaded him to go
on a tour through Italy, Switzerland and
the Alps, where he found that he loved Art,
and that his sphere in life, was in the physi-
cal research and observations of nature. Af-
ter their return to England, they spent a
vast amount of time out of doors, she in
sketching and botanizing, while he accumu-
lated facts, examined into causes etc. He
afterwards became a celebrated geologist,
the rival of some of the most eminent men,
co-workers in this field of labor, and the
discover of the Silurian system.


Two young men out riding were passing
a farmhouse where a farmer was trying to 
harness an obstinate mule. "Won't he
darw?" said one of the men. "Of course,"
said the farmer, "he'll draw the attention of
every fool that passes this way." The young
men started along.
	Sidney Smith once said: 'I remember
once making a joke after a meeting of the
clergy in Yorkshire, where there was a Rev.
Mr. Buckle, who never spoke when I pro-
posed his health. I said he was a buckle
without a tongue. Most persons on hear-
ing it laughed, but my next neighbor sat
unmoved and sunk in thought. At last, a
quarter of an hour after we had all done, he
suddenly nudged me exclaiming, 'I see now
what you meant, Mr. Smith? You meant a 
joke!' 'Yes sir, I said, 'I believe I did.'
Upon which he began laughing so heartily
that I thought he would choke, and I was
obliged to pat him on the back.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	ABOUT LETTER WRITING.

		By Blanche Beechwood.

		"Full or have letters caused the writers,
		To curse the day they were inditers"
	Cautions against letter writing are in
order at the present time.  Editors, jour-
nalists and authors in general, all seem to
partake of the same spirit, and labor with a
zeal worthy the object, to impress upon the
minds of the people, that it is unwise to
put their private thoughts and feelings
upon paper, lest they should be, through
treachery, intrigue, or unwarrantable self-
ishness, (which will involve one's life even,
or more than that perhaps their good
name,) exposed to the idle criticisms, and
alas! too frequently the harsh censure also,
of a scandal-loving, misjudging community.
	Should that which was intended only for
the eyes of the dearest, truest friend, or
the devotedly attached lover, be held up to
the ridicule, irony and sarcasm of uninter-
ested and unauthorized judges?  What
terrible agony one must suffer to have their
heart's secrets blazoned forth, perchance
among persons destitute of that fine per-
ceptional sensibility which only those
can understand whose organizations are of
the finest order of spiritual element.
	"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
	There keener anguish rankles in the mind;
	There feeling is diffused through every part,
	Thrills in each nerve, and lives in all the heart..
	How utterly unable we are to judge one
another, none of us being constituted ex-
actly alike; how can we define each other's
sentiments truly, how discriminate fairly
and justly in those peculiarly nice points of
distinction which are determined by the
emotions agitating the human heart in its
variety of phases, or under, perhaps, excep-
tional circumstances?
	We are all of us created with distinct
forms, distinct minds, we all have a certain
individuality, and we may ourselves differ
in feeling, thought, sentiment, opinion, or
action, at different times and under other
influences.  It is certain we do not always
feel alike, then it follows conclusively we
cannot always act alike, talk alike, or write
alike.
	It is this very diversity of face, figure,
form, feature, or outline, and greatest of all,
variety of taste, feeling, sentiment, expres-
sion, and of mind itself, which makes life
beautiful, and gives grace and charm to the
human soul.
	Let us hope that this debasing element
which has crept into modern society, has
not altogether defiled the pure fountain of
confidence and integrity which exists be-
tween intelligent and noble-minded men
and women, but only some of its remote
branches. Certainly it is a pleasant thing
to speak or write frankly and confidentially
to those in whom we feel there is safety,
and who have souls great enough to sympa-
thize with us in life's ills; we may do this
innocently if received in the same spirit.
	The past furnishes us many instances of
letters of friendship, between persons of op-
posite sexes, which are rich with sentiment
and charming in style, from which no un-
happy conclusions were drawn, which have
come down to us as samples of purity of
thought, feeling and expression.  Are we
then in this enlightened age so much be-
hind in nobility of character as to lose
faith and trust in one another?


Flash youths—telegraph boys.


FLOWERS.

	The two impressions.—Great men leave
two impressions of themselves on their con-
temporaries—the one the result of their
public career, the other of their private life.
	KIND words are the bright flowers of
earthly existence; use them, and especially
around the fireside circle.  They are jew-
els beyond price, and powerful to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed-
down spirit glad.
	SELF-RESPECT is the noblest garment
with which a man may clothe himself—the
most elevating feeling with which the
mind can be inspired.  One of Pythagoras'
wisest maxims, in his golden verses, is that
which enjoins the pupil to reverence himself.
	SORROWS sober us and make the mind
genial.  In sorrow we love and trust our
friends more tenderly, and the dead be-
come dearer to us.  Just as the stars shine
out in the night, so there are blessed faces
that look at us in our grief, though before
their features were fading from our recol-
lection.
	THE man who is only honest when hon-
esty is the best policy is not really an hon-
est man.  Honesty is not swerving policy
but stable principle.  An honest man is
honest from his inmost soul, nor deigns to
stoop to aught that is mean, though great
results hang on the petty fraud.
	WHEN all is over, and our feet will run no
more, and our hands are helpless, and we
have scarcely words to murmur a last prayer,
then we shall see that instead of needing a
larger field, we have left untilled many cor-
ners of our acre—and that none of it is fit for
our Master's eye, were it not for the soften-
ing shadows of the cross.—EX.
	THE TRUE LIFE.—The mere lapse of
years is not life.  To eat and drink and
sleep; to be exposed to darkness and the
light; to pace around in the mill of habit,
and turn the wheel of wealth; to make rea-
son our book-keeper, and turn thought into
an implement of trade—that is not life. In
all this, but a poor fraction of the conscious-
ness of humanity is awakened; and the
sanctities still slumber which make it most
worth while to be.  Knowledge, truth, love,
beauty, goodness, faith, alone can give vi-
tality to the mechanism of existence; the
laugh of mirth that vibrates through the
heart, the tears that freshen the dry wastes
within, the music that brings childhood
back, the prayer that calls the future near,
the doubt which makes us meditate, the
death which startles us with mystery, the
hardship that forces us to struggle, the anx-
iety that ends in trust—are the true nour-
ishment of our natural being.—Martineau.


HEALTH AND FASHION.

	Not until we deal conscientiously with
nature as we do with tradesmen shall we, as
individuals, be entitled to rewards of merit.
We ask for a load of wood, pay the market
price for it, get the worth of our money,
and have the satisfaction of warmth from
the fire it makes. Suppose the dealer knew
we would not pay for it. He would not be
likely to give full measure or the best qual-
ity. The dainty bits of lace, jet ornaments
and plumes, rosebuds and velvets compos-
ing a hat, are very becoming to some faces.
The dressy hat has a price; it takes money
to pay for it. The little lady wishes to look
stylish, pays the price and is satisfied and
happy until the fashion changes. She de-
sires health and elasticity of step, buoyancy


of spirit. Could they be purchased, millions
of dollars would roll into the credit of bank
accounts. Alas, poor child of fashion! gold
cannot buy for you the dewy freshness of a
vigorous life. The sunshine and raindrops
are gifts. Roses in cheeks, cherries in col-
or of lips, come from within. The price is
service—and faithful service, too, under the
direction of  most generous and most ex-
acting physician—mother nature. Her re-
wards are sure, her punishment certain.
There can be no appeal to a highcr court—
no amendments to her divinely appointed
"constitution." Will you, dear reader, en-
ter a willing student? Are you willing to
measure your life by her rule and compass
and square? "No." Then there is little 
hope for you.—Ex.


EVERY DESCRIPTIONS
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOOD.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				20 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		Feathers, Wall Paper,
			AND
		BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.
			CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, witha  copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price $2.5	-	-	-	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of the President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4  -	-	  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sentin.
in all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk 
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Territory,
especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1875.		     No. 4.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	As the time is drawing nearer for the com-
mencement of the Normal Institute in this
city, we thought perhaps it would not be amiss
to mention it again, although in our issue of
July 1st, we made a short notice of it, in con-
nection with some other items. We feel certain
that such training is essentially necessary, and
with the superior talent, ability and experience
of such teachers as the programme presents, it
cannot fail to be a school which will be a materi-
al benefit to the Territory. Arrangements have
been made to accommodate those who may at-
tend from the country, with rooms and board
at reduced prices, and also special railroad fare
at half the usual rates. Dr. John R. Park has
charge of conducting and superintending the
school; Prof. Karl G. Maeser's theory and prac-
tice of teaching; Prof. J. M. Coyner, Arithme-
tic; Reading, W. H. Rager; Geography, Miss
Josephine Cole; Grammer, Dr. J. R. Park;
Spelling, Miss Della Snow; Writing, Prof. F.
M. Bishop; Oral Grammer, Miss Della Snow;
Object Lessons, Miss Mary A. Stalfaugh; Civil
Government and Physiology, Prof. J. M. Coy-
ner; Elocution, Prof. J. L. Rawlins; Natural
History and Science, Prof. Karl G. Maeser;
Industrial Drawing, Miss Jennie Dennison.
This school will open Aug. 2nd. in the Uni-
versity Building and will continue two weeks.
It will be free to teachers, and those who in-
tend to qualify themselves for teaching, from
all parts of the Territory.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	"THE QUESTION of the day" is an old one
just now having been warmed over for the
ninety-eighth time.—"How did you spend
your Fourth?"
	A DISCIPLE of Darwin, writing from
New Westminster, describes that naturalist
as "a fine old man," and says "though there
may be some other law or cause than his
theory, why species change, yet so far he is 
quite right—we are, for sure, a developed
animal."
	THE AMERICAN Newspaper Directory of 
Rowell & Co. for 1875. records 8,348 papers
published in the United States and British
provinces, an increase of 1,910 since 1871,
and of 564 from last year.
	TERRIBLE RAILROAD accident at Far
Rockaway in the earlier part of this month,
several persons were killed, a much larger
number seriously injured; considerable
blame seems attached to the men in charge.
The trains were crowded with excursion
parties.
	AT NYAK, N. Y.,  there has been a most
destructive storm of rain, hail and wind,
accompanied by incessant thunder and light-
ning; two men were killed by lightning,
houses were unroofed, trees torn up and
carried some distance.  The damage was
immense.
	MRS. LAURA De Force Gordon, editor of
the Stockton Leader, and Mrs. Belle Lynch
of the Mendocino County Dispatch, were
lately in San Francisco at the State Demo-
cratic Convention.  The Golden Dawn pays

[Column 2]
them the flattering compliment of causing
many a delegate to change their vote
through their successful lobbyism.
	COMMENCEMENT SEASON, "literary anni
versaries," exhibitions of schools and
academies, class days, class re-unions, and
"Phi Beta orations," are crowding one after
the other or all together, at this season of
the year; and from every quarter we hear
the gratifying accounts of pleasant associa-
tions, favorable reports as to scholarship and
progression. Yale College, Harvard, Vas-
sar, Holyoke, Cornell; Greylock, and Cooper
Institute and many others too numerous to
mention here, have all recently celebrated
their commencement.  Certainly these sat-
isfactory reports must be particularly pleas-
ing to those who are interested in the cause
of education and advancement.
	MAIL ADVICES from South America bring
distressing accounts of the terrible earth-
quakes which have lately been visiting that
country. Several towns and cities have
been almost entirely destroyed.  It is said
that in thirty minutes the city of Cacuta
was laid in ruins, resulting in the death of
more than ten thousand people, in addition
to other thousands injured.  The cause is
unknown as well as the place of its com-
mencement.  Some attribute the cause to
the volcano of Sohatera; others are inclined
to the belief that a new volcano has broken
out in the hills of Giracha.  There have
been several severe shocks since, in differ-
ent places through the same part of the
country; and the greatest alarm prevails
among the surviving inhabitants; sickness
and starvation are also increasing.
	THE MILLENNIAL Star of June 21st, re-
cently received, contains a very interesting
account of the Swiss and German Confer-
ence, held at Berne, Switzerland, June 6th,
1875. Br. Joseph F. Smith, President of
the European Mission, was then in Swit-
zerland, and on that occasion addressed the
Conference, telling them that he regretted
not being able to speak in their own lan-
guage.  His sermon was an earnest and im-
pressive exhortation to both men and women
to live their religion, to become preachers
of the Gospel, by effectually honoring its
divine principles.  He also entreated them
to labor diligently and be "economical, wise
and prudent with their means," that they
might be able to gather to Zion, but not to
gather with a view to obtain riches, or to
benefit their temporal condition, but to
build up the kingdom of God.  There were
many other brethren there, representing
the different missions and conferences, who
spoke expressively and impressively con-
cerning the great work of the latter days.
The people seemed especially pleased and
gratified to have with them one of the
Twelve Apostles, and so many Eders from
Zion.
	IT IS said that 2,000 persons were drowned
at Toulouse, by the flood of the river Gar-
onnee, and that in consequence of the de-
struction of property by that flood, 100,000
persons will be dependent on charity for
months. The contributions for them have
already reached $200,000.  President Mac
Mahon headed the list.  The Pope sent
$4,000.


For the EXPONENT.
			YOU WRITERS.

	I do not know of what misdemeanor I
have been guilty that I should be so cruelly
victimized, but thus it is.  For the past
two or three weeks, everybody within
twenty miles around, who has had annoy-
ances of a certain kind to bear, has seemed
determined that I should share them,
whether my sweet temper and charity-lov-
ing spirit prompted me to offer sympathy or
not. Allusion is made to a class of writers
who do not succeed in getting their produc-
tions published in a manner satisfactory to
themselves. And to such I respectfully
submit the following—that is if it should
not find the same sad fate so many of my
friends' precious writings have, apparently,
met, to be consigned to the waste basket.
I do not propose to repeat here, the sor-
rowful, and in some instances disdainful
words to which I have listened; nor to pic-
ture the doleful or indignant countenances
which have been presented to me. It is
enough if I give my opinion on the subject,
and a few hints gratis, inasmuch as I have
been so often consulted.
	First of all then, be assured that it is
most absurd for any of us to take offence
because the judgment of another, particu-
larly an editor, should differ from our own
in regard to our  productions.
	Want of clearness in writing is a great
deficiency with many.  They write as they
speak without due consideration as to
whether they will be properly understood
or not.  As a consequence, the real beauty
and value of a composition is often hid
from all but the writer's own mind, simply
for want of clear and correct expression.
Even the talented and learned are frequently
guilty of writing thus obscurely, so that
they are only comprehended by the educat-
ed few.  While, I suppose, it must be to
the interest of journalistic editors to see that
only such things appear in their periodicals,
in a general way, as will be readily grasped
by the reading public, the semi-illiterate as
well as the more enlightened.
	Another grievous fault with many is, the
apparent idea of entirely exhausting an in-
teresting subject, saying all that is worth
saying about it, in one brief essay.  Could
this be done, the benefit of writing would
be obsolete in our day.  All would have
been said and printed in past ages, and
handed down to us.
	Upon the strength of this fact, realizing
that much more remains which might be
said with profit, but that I am only capable
of saying very little, I will cut this criti-
cism short, barely adding that as we do
nearly all other things, most of us write.
With too great haste and too little care;
thinking more of how much we can do,
than how well we can do it; feeling more
anxious to call our work completed, than to
pronounce it good.  I wish we could over-
come this infirmity as individuals, as a peo-
ple, a nation, a world.  And grow into the
more rational way of considering that the
more we  criticised by others; and the less
time we spend in criticising others, the
more we shall have for self criticism.
							MABEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			SOWING WILD OATS.

Young ladies, this scrap is for your brothers and beaux,)
	Yes, boys, you are  young, and you have a just right
	To live lives of freedom and ceaseless delight.
	No one should curtail your glad, happy ways,
	Nor darken with care-clouds your bright, sunny days;
	For laughter both health and ambition promotes,
	So have your own fun, boys, and sow your wild oats.

	But while you are passing thus gaily along,
	Dear boys, recollect you've no right to do wrong.
	Don't place yourselves subject to shame or distrust.
	By being imprudent, rash, vain or unjust;
	Don't swindle each other in exchange of coats—
	Don't swear, drink or gamble while sowing wild oats.

	Don't speak of "the governor!" "old man!!" and such;
	And your mother! you cannot respect her too much.
	Sin not 'gainst your elders by action or tongue—
	But think—if you live, you'll not always be young.
	Down the swift tide of time each unconsciously floats,
	So be wise, kind and gentle while sowing wild oats.

	Don't think that to work is degrading or low,
	If no wheat is planted there'll be none to grow;
	Don't officiously seek to be fed from the store
	Of the humble who toil, the industrious poor;
	Nor be guilty of venturing illegal votes,
	Be honest and pure though you're sowing wild oats.

	When some fair, young creature, as fancy may flit,
	Admires your style, or is charmed by your wit,
	Don't think that to please her, and merely for sport,
	You'll make some pretentions to love and to court:
	Don't woo to deceive her, with words, or with notes,
	And go back on the plea of your sowing wild oats.
	
	Seek fame as you will, with the mallet or pen,
	But lay your foundations for good, worthy men;
	And build there upon noble structures and fine,
	Walking straight in the way of the Master divine;
	Nor wish to extend or escape from the moats,
	He has placed for your safety in sowing wild oats.
										   LULA.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Associations held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, June
20th, 1875, was presided over by Counselor
Mrs. Zina D. Young, in absence of the Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne. In her opening re-
marks she alluded to the sisters who were
absent South, in Sanpete Co., and remarked
though they were away from the meeting
they would not forget it, but would be unit-
ed in spirit with those who were there,
She expressed herself particularly gratified
with the minutes which had been read
there on that occasion. She then mentioned
the subject of sericulture and said it was
then the proper time to save the mulberry
seed.
	Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff made some
most excellent and appropriate remarks.
Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. J. Howe, Mrs. M.
E. Watmough, Mrs. W. East, and Mrs.
Foss, all spoke impressively of the work
now in progress, and the great mission giv-
en to woman to assist in establishing the
Kingdom of God upon the earth.


[Column 1]
VIRGEN CITY, KANE COUNTY,
					June 21, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of the President of the Re-
lief Society in this place, I will send a few
lines to you for publication in your valuable
paper, which we peruse with pleasure.
We held our Annual Meeting on Monday,
the 31st of May. It is seven years since we
organized in the capacity of a Relief Socie-
ty, with no other object in view but to do
good to those around us, and we have con-
tiuned steadfast from the commencement.
We are a settlement here of about thirty
families and very little money; what we ac-
complish by our own labor, and what we
have to sell, brings us some little means to-
wards helping the work along. We try to
be saints, and to live our religion, realizing
[Column 2]
that the promise is only to the faithful,
knowing that those who endure to the end,
will be saved in the kingdom of our Heav-
enly Father.
	Our Annual Meeting was well attended at
the Hall. President Sister Parker, invited
her husband Bishop John Parker and Bro.
Jepson first Counselor to the Bishop to at-
tend the meeting; they thankfully accepted
the invitation. The meeting was at 2
o'clock agreeable to appointment; called to
order by the President of the Society.
Singing and prayer. Minutes of the last
meeting were then read. The visiting com-
mittee then gave in their report. Next
came a report respecting the condition of 
the Society. Sister Isabella Hilton, a teach-
er in the society died since our last meet-
ing; she was a worthy member and died full
in the faith, leaving a large circle of friends.
We miss her society as we do that of many
other faithful sisters. Sister Parker gave
some very good instruction. She has always
endeavored to impart to us counsel in meek-
ness and humility. Sister Jepson bore tes-
timony in the same spirit. Bishop Parker
spoke encouragingly to the society, wished
them to persevere in well doing and they
would gain an exaltation; felt to bless them
&c. Bro. Jepson sanctioned what the
Bishop said &c. Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Dismissed by Bishop Parker.
		Yours with respect,
			ELLEN PARKER President,
				E. D. GARDENER Secretary.
					FAIRFIELD July 1st, 1875.
EDITOT EXPONENT:
	By request of our President I send for
publication the following minutes of the
sixth meeting of the Young Ladies Re-
trenchment Association, held June 8th 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved.
	Brother Zebedee Coltrin, of Spanish
Fork, (who was present by request,) then ad-
dressed the sisters. Said he was always
pleased to meet with the saints, and espe-
cially with the younger brethren and sis-
ters, who had just set out to form them-
selves into societies, to pray, to talk with
each other on the principles of the Gospel,
and to be instructed in them. These were
the most important subjects on which we
could receive instruction, they concerned
alike our present life, and our condition
hereafter. Such societies were being form-
ed in almost every settlement where the
saints had gathered, and in some places the
brethren as well as the sisters had associa-
ted themselves for this purpose, to re-
form and quit their evil practices. Said if
the sisters would persevere in discouraging
the attentions of the young men who drank
and used tobacco, the latter finding exclu-
sion from their society a greater depriva-
tion than they could well bear, would natu-
rally turn over a new leaf, and act in such a
way to render themselves agreeable com
panions. He would rather follow his daugh-
ters to the grave than to see them associa-
ting with those who followed such evil
practices, and from such society he con-
stantly kept them. He spoke of the present
extravagant style of dress among the sis-
ters, said formerly a sister could be known
as far as she could be seen, but now he did
not dare to speak to one whom he had
kuown for years until she was close enough
for him to be sure he was addressing
the right person. He also cautioned the sisters
against tight lacing, and said when called
upon, as he frequently was, to admister
to young women he could hardly get faith
[Column 3]
enough to do as he was requested, they had
so injured themselves by improper and
foolish habits. As for liquor, though men
and women too, said it did them good, he
could not believe it. It gave them false
strength for the time, but when that had
passed off they felt worse than ever. He
exhorted them to perseverance, and to con-
tinue in good works that they might not
lose the reward that they desired to win.
	Brother Carson followed in a few remarks
of much the same nature; said that if the
sisters followed the good counsel which had
just been given them, they would eventu-
ally become the wives of good men, and
that they need not fear they would have to
remain single because they persevered in
such resolutions.
	After singing the meeting was dismissed
by Brother Carson. Adjourned for one
week.
		ADA A. D. DURANT. Secretary.
			PAYSON, June 19th, 1875.
	Report of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Society.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest.
Martha Simons introduced Sr. Zina D.
Young who then expressed her pleasure in
seeing so many young sisters present—spoke
of the many duties that devolved upon
them, and their mission here on earth; en-
treated of them not to associate with stran-
gers, but to set an example worthy of im-
itation, and to shun the company of those
who indulged in light frivolous talk or slang
phrases, said there was no time to waste,
that great importance was attached to the
subject of HOME INDUSTRY. Sr. Barney
followed endorsing all Sr. Young had said.
She deprecated in strong terms the reading
of light literature, and solicited subscribers
for the "Woman's Exponent" and "Juve-
nile Instructor."
	At the close of the meeting a carriage
was in waiting to convey the ladies to the
depot escorted by some of the brethren and
several of the sisters feeling to bless them
for their teachings.
					M. A. HARDY.
		PROVO CITY, June 17th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The ladies of the several Relief Societies
of our city, met in the Meeting House by
appointment, understanding that Sr. Zina
D. Young and other sisters from Salt Lake
City would be present to instruct them in
their duties as members of Relief Societies,
and especially to encourage them to engage
in the business of sericulture. A goodly
number of the sisters were present and they
were agreeably surprised to find that Sr.
E. R. Snow was in the stand, having come
especially to meet with the sisters of Provo
by the morning train. After singing and
prayer Sr. M. I. Smoot introduced Sr. E. R.
Snow, who expressed her joy in meeting
with them again and then proceeded to in-
struct them in their duties in general, as
mothers and daughters in Israel. Especially
enjoining upon mothers to instruct their
children in the principles of the Gospel;
but was afraid that in some cases, mothers
devoted too much time to the dressing of
the bodies of their daughters, to the neg-
lect of the instruction of their minds in
those principles which would cause them to
grow up as useful members of society; al-
luded to the superficial education of young
ladies, which only fitted them for society as
the world understand it—but women, mem-
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, should cultivate themselves
and children in those principles which
would make them fit society for the pure


[Column 1]
in heart—exhorted the sisters to encourage
and aid the organizations of Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Societies, and to
maintain a lively interest in such organiza-
tions by their presence and counsels—allud-
ed to the fact that many of the women of
Zion were astray with the idea that they
had no time to attend meetings, or to give
to the culture of their minds, but that their
whole being and time must be given to the
drudgery of life, preparing food &c. What
mattered if the dishes should be left un-
washed to give time for attendance at some
meeting, nothing would materially suffer,
but good would result; still the domestic
duties of women should not be neglected.
She also urged the necessity of the sisters
making exertions to start the manufacture
of straw materials, woolen goods including
hosiery for infants and children's wear, and
also the culture of silk, on which subject she
would give place to Sr. Zina D. Young who
then addressed the Sisters. Her remarks
were chiefly in relation to the establish-
ment of the Silk Culture, giving an outline
of the habits of the silk worm, showing
that this branch of industry would give la-
bor to many among us who to-day were be-
ing in part supported by charity. Our cli-
mate was especially adapted to the business,
and everything was favorable for profitable
results in the production of it; continued
her remarks to some length exhorting the
sisters to seek to aid their husbands all in
their power in the duties of this life, and
in teaching their children the principles of
the Gospel.
	Sister Barney, in a brief and pointed ad-
dress exhorted the sisters to be humble be-
fore God and to help bear off the burdens of
the work with the presidents of their socie-
ties, not clogs in the wheel, but working
saints, full of suggestions and ideas for the
advancement of the society and for the de-
velopment of the HOME INDUSTRIES of our 
Territory.
	Sr. Brown of Pleasant Grove, made some
remarks confirming those of the former
speakers; after which Sr. M. I. Smoot in be-
half of the ladies of Provo, expressed her
thanks to Sr. E. R. Snow and companions
for their visit. and hinted that their practi-
cal remarks would be made available by the
sisters of Provo, for the blessing of them-
selves and children. Dismissed with pray-
er by Prest. A. O. Smoot.
	All present seemed impressed with the
good spirit and the wise counsels of Sr. E. 
R. Snow and companions, retiring feeling
well repaid for the time they had spent.
							A. T.
	Minutes of a Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of Payson City June 18, 1875.
	There were present on the stand beside
local authorities, Sisters Zina D. Young and
Elvira Barney of Salt Lake City, and the
President and Counselors of the Spring-
ville Relief Society.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Mrs. B. J. Simons introduced Sr. Bar-
ney who proceeded to address the meeting.
She deprecated the idea of our sisters asso-
ciating with strangers who come into our
midst, and said many are by this means
led away, not only from home and friends
but from the fold of Christ and become
cast-aways. Mothers should look to this,
and carefully guard their daughters from
danger, exhorted the sisters to live their
religion and to be united with the priest-
hood. Introduced the subject of sericul-
ture and related what the sisters of Salt
Lake were trying to accomplish in this direc-
sion. Denounced novel reading as being
[Column 2]
in the highest degree pernicious and evil in
its tendency, exhorted all to patronize the
"EXPONENT" and "Instructor," said the sis-
ters should attend their society meeting, and
patronize the Sunday School.
	Sr. Zina D. Young said the mission before
the sisters now was HOME INDUSTRIES.
The authorities of the church were anx-
ious to see the people adopt measures to
sustain themselves, and they required the
sisters to lead out in every direction possi-
ble for the attainment of that end. They
can make their own hats, their childrens,
and husbands and therefore save that ex-
pense every year. Sericulture was an im-
portant item and should receive our most
earnest attention. We would find that this
was the easiest way possible for us to pro-
duce our clothing. We should set our mul-
berry trees in abundance and every family
go to making silk. God requires us to
adorn our bodies with the workmanship of
our own hands, and we should set about it
in earnest. The speaker alluded to "Plu-
ral Marriage;" said it was the only way in-
to the Celestial Kingdom. We may expect
to meet with trials by the way, these are
necessary for our purification and we must
learn to bear them patiently and never try
to slide from under them and throw them
aside. In choosing husbands, select men of
intelligence, men of faith, men of God; and
thus secure to yourselves partners that
will be worthy of you.
	President Mrs. B. J. Simons hoped the
sisters would treasure up what they had
heard and profit by it, she then read a 
piece of poetry entitled "A Welcome to the
Sisters from Salt Lake City."
	Bro. I. M. Coombs made a few remarks
by the way of encouragement to the sisters in
their labor of love.
	Counselor Mrs. Agnes Douglas addressed
the meeting for a few minutes encouraging
the sisters to persevere and be blessed.
	The meeting was a very pleasant one and
will long be remembered by those who at-
tended it.
	Very Respectfully your sister in the
Gospel.
			MARY ANN HARDY, Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	INVESTIGATIONS recently made give a
statement of the number of missionaries
and converts in Japan as follows: Greek
Church, 1 missionary, 3,000 converts; Ro-
man Catholic, 40 missionaries, 20,000 con-
verts; Protestants, 70 missionaries, 200,000
converts.
	COOPER'S Institute has held this season
its twenty-first anniversary of the laying of
the corner stone. Peter Cooper its founder,
whose age is eighty-six years was upon the
platform surrounded by admiring friends
and a crowd of pupils. The original cost of
the building when conveyed to the trus-
tees was $630,000. The aggregate receipts
to Jan. 1875 have  $572,291,27. The
average of daily attendance is 2,000 per-
sons. The newspapers on file (daily and
weekly) are over 300. The library compri-
ses 16,000 volumes. The Free Art School
for women has admitted during the last
year 200 pupils, 118 for drawing and 82 for
photography. During the last four months
1,724 have earned honors in this class. One
pupil from the drawing class is now earning
$150 per month. The Free School for
Wood Engraving with a class of 30 pupils,
have received $916,20 for work while yet in
school. The Free School of Telegraphy for
women numbers 47. Average wages earn-


ed by female operators, from $30 to $70 per
month. This excellent institution has a
corps of about 20 Professors and an expense
of $54,446,13 yearly. Organized classes
numbered the past term 2,878 pupils.


ESSAY ON PRAYER.

	What is prayer? What is the use of
praying? What good does it do us? These
are, no doubt, a few of the questions which
present themselves to the minds of my
young sisters, when they kneel down and
pray before going to bed. Now, in order to
do right and be happy, it is necessary that
we should pray, for our Father in heaven
likes to have us think of Him, and he is
very much pleased when He sees little girls
kneel down and ask Him to bless them; He
loves them and wants to bless them all the
time if they will only ask Him, but if they
don't pray He thinks they do not care any-
thing about Him, and he is grieved and
withholds His blessings from them. Prayer
serves to keep open the channel of commu-
nication between us and the heavens, there-
fore, my young sisters, let us never forget
our prayers, and we will find the more we
pray, the more we will love it; but if we
miss saying our prayers one day, the next
day we feel less inclined and it seems
harder for us to do so. We are surrounded
by evil spirits and influences, and it requires
an exertion on our part, at all times, to
overcome them, and being weak of our-
selves, we cannot do so without the help of
our Father in heaven. We should not only
pray in the morning and at night, but we
should pray in our hearts, all the day long,
that our hearts may always be turned to-
wards God. Let the praise and gratitude
of our hearts ascend unto the Lord by day
and by night, that the channel may be
kept open, and the road between us and our
heavenly Father may always be broken,
that we may have constant access unto Him,
and in doing this we shall ever feel a glad
and happy spirit, and we shall eventually
be numbered with the wise virgins spoken
of in the Bible.
		MRS. JANE E. VAN TASSELL,
				1st Ward, Salt Lake City.


GOLDEN WORDS.

	The habit of looking on the bright side is
invaluable. Men and women who are ever-
more reckoning up what they want, rather
than what they have—counting the diffi-
culties in the way, instead of contriving
means to overcome them—are almost cer-
tain to live on corn bread, fat pork and salt
fish, and sink to unmarked graves. The
world is sure to smile upon a man who
seems to be successful, but let him go about
with a crestfallen air, and the very dogs in
the street will set upon him. We must all
have losses. Late frosts will nip the frui
in the bud, banks will break, investments
will prove worthless, valuable horses will
die and china vases will break, but all these
calamities do not come together. The wise
course to pursue, when one plan fails, is to
form another; when one prop is knocked
from under us, to fill its place with a sub-
stitute, and evermore count what is left
rather than what is taken. When the final
reckoning is made, if it appears that we
have not lost the consciousness of our in-
ternal rectitude; if we have kept charity
toward all men; if by the various discipline
of life, we have been freed from follies and
confirmed in virtues, whatever we have lost,
the great balance sheet will be in our favor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
			GENERAL.
	The American Bible Society are to have
a Bible published with new plates, to be
called the "Centennial Bible"......The Amer-
ican Palestine Exposition Society sailed in
the Celtic on the 19th of June, on its second
expedition......It has been proposed to build
an iron bridge across the Hudson at Still-
water, the cost estimated at $12,000......San
Francisco estimates her pupulation 230,000
......The cost of the pedestal for the Webster
Statue presented by G. W. Burnham to
Central Park, will be $20,000, it will not be
ready for unveiling before July 1876......75,
000 Americans have sailed for Europe this
season......Post masters are to be held re-
sponsible for the losses of government prop-
erty in their hands......A terrific tornado
at Detroit June 27th, its path about 50 feet
wide; four persons were killed and many
seriously injured, loss of property $25,000
......The cost of bridges in the United States
since the war is said to be $150,000,000......
O'Connell is to have a statue in Central Park
......In Texas they are collecting money for
Jeff Davis to buy a homestead......Bogardus
of Illinois has beaten Rimmel, England's
champion, at a pigeon-shooting match at
Hendon......Col. Gildersleeve of the Amer-
ican rifle-team, won the cup in the rifle
match at Belfast......The headquarters of
the National Grange is removed to Louis-
ville Ken. from Washington D. C. ......Loss
by burning of mills in St. Louis, July 8th,
$50,000......The Hon. Geo. Opedyke has been
appointed president of the N.Y. Board of
Trade......The New York Sun boldly criti-
cises some of the leading railway mana-
gers.
			FOREIGN.
	A terrific rain and hail storm in Switzer-
land, Canton of Geneva and the French
Frontiers July 8th, several persons killed
and wounded, valuable property damaged
......The King of Burmah has refused to
permit the British troops passage through
his country. It is hoped he will yield to
the representations of the British Envoy
and prevent a collision......A painting of
Laocoon, according to Virgil's description,
has been discovered lately at Pompeii......
Japan has appointed commissioners to the
Philadelphia Centennial......It is reported
that the Marquis of Lorme, and his wife
(Princess Louise) intend making a tour
through the United States......An engine
for street cars whose motive power is atmos-
pheric air has been invented in Scotland by
Mr. Scott Moncrieff, who has obtained a pa-
tent for it......The Russian government 
spends annually $32,000 for carriages for
opera singers at St. Petersburg, to protect
their health and voices......The Chair of
Chemistry in Munich University, vacated
by the death of Baron Leibig has been filled
by Prof Baeger of Strassburg......The Lon-
don Art Union's income last year, was $94,
630......Thirty-six documents connected
with Michael Angelo have been discovered
at Rome, and are said to be of special in-
terest to the history of Art......In 1874,
France had in operation 15,000 miles of
railway......The Pope has just had comple-
ted a magnificent mosaic front to be affixed
to the famous church "St. Paul Outside The
Walls."......A masonic newspaper has been
started in Egypt in the Arabic language by
the masonic fraternity.
			PERSONAL.
	Rochfort has been obliged to suspend the
publication of his newspaper the "Lanterne"
at Geneva......Gerome's painting, the "Sabre
[Column 2]
Dance" in the Paris Salon has been sold
for $18,000......M. Godcharb recently de-
ceased left $120,000 the income of which is
to aid young Belgian sculptors......Mr. Ten-
nyson's new poem "Queen Mary" is about
to be issued......The Khedive of Egypt is
searching extensively for manuscript to form
a library at Cairo......The late Emperor Fer-
dinand of Austria, was buried July 6th,
with great pomp and ceremony; his remains
were deposited in the church of the Capu-
chins in the vault with Maximillian......
Garnier de Cassagnac has published a letter
in Paris in which he threatens to kick Gam-
betta......Don Carlos of Spain has been ar-
rested by the French authorities......The
heir apparent to the British throne intends
visiting India in October next......D. G.
Lobdell agent of the United States Treasury
Department died in Washington July 9th
......Gen. F. P. Blair died in St. Louis,
July 8th.
			LOCAL.
	Fireman's celebration at Ogden on the
Fourth of July, a grand success......Grand
Ball at Coalville, to celebrate the Fourth.....
Public demonstration of the memorable
Fourth in Alta......General holiday in Salt
Lake City July Fifth, excursions to all the
different places of attraction, and several
parties in the evening......The Martial band
serenaded the new Governor Thursday
night at the Walker House.........Robert T.
Burton, just returned from abroad, received
marked demonstrations of welcome from
his very numerous friends......The work of
excavating the cellar of the new Bank has
commenced......The extension of the Utah
Northern Railroad for twenty-five miles, is
expected to be completed this autumn......
Associate Justice Emerson has gone East on
a short visit to his friends......The Taberna-
cle choir went to Lake Side for an "out,"
Monday, July 12th.........Friday morning
there was a fire at the Railroad depot, which
did considerable harm in burning coal sheds,
coal, etc., and damaging cars......General
election, August 2nd, several officers to be
chosen......Mrs. J. B. Tyson, a lady who
was injured by the recent collision on the
Central Pacific, died in Ogden, July 6th;
her remains were sent to Minnesota.........
Preparations are being made for a children's
Jubilee in the New Tabernacle, July 24th....
The Wyoming company of emigrants ar-
rived here on Friday, July 9th......C. W.
Penrose, of the Ogden Junction, has re-
turned from his invigorating trip to Soda
Springs, warmly welcomed by his many
friends, and has resumed the editorial
pen in his own pleasing style.........	Mrs.
Clements and her little child, of Ogden,
are now afflicted with smallpox, taken from
her husband who has just recovered; strenu-
ous measures have been adopted to prevent
the disease from spreading.


LONGEVITY OF LITERARY WOMEN.

	It is really remarkable how many cases of long-
evity occur among women who make authorship
their occupation in life.  Miss Martineau, Miss
Bremer, Mrs. Howitt, Mrs. Strickland, and Mrs.
Browning—all either living or not very long de-
ceased—were born almost at the beginning of the 
century:  Madame de Stael lived to be fifty-one,
Mrs. Bradstreet fifty-nine, Ida Pleiffer sixty-one,
Miss Mitford sixty-nine, Lady Wortly Montague
seventy-two, Miss Edgeworth eighty-two, Miss
Opie eighty-four, Madame d'Arblay eighty-five,
Mrs. Sommerville ninety-one and Madame de
Genlis ninety-six.—"Hearth and Home."


TRUTH AND POPULARITY
	The truth is as unpopular as poverty. Hence,
to live pure lives, to be true men and women
is unpopular and out of fashion, something
that cannot be adopted save by a comparative
few.
	A first class now will secure more notoriety,
and consequently bring more money to the
author in a few months than "The Voice of
Warning." "The Governent of God," or any
such work which offers the pure, uncolored
truth, could gain in a century or in all time,
except old things should pass away and all
things become new. If if was advertised that
an elder of the chirch would deliver a discourse
upon the principle of divine, eternal truth, in
the Tabernacle, at the same hour a celebrated
comedy was to be played in the Theatre, thou-
samds of people would be in readiness to wit-
ness the first rise of the curtain at the latter
place, while at the former building a few hun-
dreds might congregate, the larger portion
coming in, at least after the opening hymn
had been sung. All this because the human
mind is prone to seek popularity, and there
is so wide a difference between it and the
truth.
	But the Saints of God, those who know or
have a desire to know the true docrine of
Christ, and live in accordance with its teach-
ings, must choose a higher standard by which
to be adjudged than the vain fickle test of
popularity.
	O Young ladies, ye who seek for everlasting
life, light and intelligence, do not turn from the
thought of joining the Retrenchment Associa-
tions because they are unpopular. Do not be
ashamed to acknowledge that you delight in
prayer because through prayer and faith comes
the sweet, sure testimony of the truth. Do not
shrink from entering into polygamy because it
is scoffed at and jeered by those who know not
the ways of the Lord and seek not after His
kingdom and righteousness. Study the works
of the church, though they contain the prin-
ciples of truth and are not popular with the
world. Learn the truth for yourselves, and
never be afraid to speak in its defense, though
to do so should have the effect to make you
look small in the eyes of some whose good
opinion you might be anxious to preserve.
Maintain true independence of character, feel
that you are worth more and far more hap-
py in homemade attire than those who seek
but vanity and folly are in the costliest robes
they can put on. Cultivate union and sisterly
love, thus gaining in strength and power; show
most respect to those who live nearest the
Lord, thus making the truth popular as well as
most precious among yourselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONSCIENCE AND DUTY.

	"Who does the best his circumstance allows,
	Does well, acts nobly; angels could do no more."

	Every person is more or less desirous of ob-
taining happiness; those whose lives are hard
and full of painful experiences in this world, look
forward to a future state of existence, with a
strong hope of realizing there, that which is
denied them here.
	But there can be no true or lasting happiness,
except through the fulfillment of duty; this is
the one thing always necessary, always practi-
cable, always certain; how essential then, to
know in what our duty lies, to be sure we are
in the right path.  How careful ought we to
be that our conscience does not mislead us, and
make us believe we are discharging our true
duties when it is only selfish gratification. It
is possible for us to become so blind that we
mistake inclination for duty.  I will not say
that there may not be duties which are un-
pleasant ones, which in themselves are trials,
but to shrink from them, or try to evade them,
will not bring us the more happiness, for con-
science will protest against this neglect, and its
stings will be more unendurable than the sac-
rifice which was necessary in the performance
of a disagreeable duty, and self-sacrifice in the
fulfillment of duty, carries with it its own rec-
ompense.
	The consciousness of having fulfilled duty
to the best of our ability, is a consolation even
in unhappiness; duty has its sorrows and its
joys.  It is not given us always to see the wis-
dom which demands our work must be done,
but frequently in some simple way, we are con-
vinced of the kindness and judgment exer-
cised in our behalf, in the thorniest places, the
most trying and difficult circumstances; and
we are thus encouraged to go on, bound to the
wheel of duty, and fill up the measure of our
work; which becomes through such means, a plea-
sure in itself, and in the future "a joy forever."
	Let us so regulate our lives as to have no
matter to reproach ourselves with, neither let
thoughtlessness or ambition lead us astray, but
guard ourselves sedulously against temptation;
and if there be whisperings which tell us, we
have a right to escape from duties which ex-
ceed our strength, we must not listen to such
evil suggestions, but trusting in God who has
promised to fit the back to the burden, go for-
ward nothing daunted, relying upon His help
whose work we are striving to do faithfully.
And in strict obedience to these duties (how-
ever trivial they may seem), which are required
of us from day to day, we shall more richly
deserve, and more fully merit the blessings of
heaven, than by launching forth upon the most
brilliant career independent of the ties, duties,
and obligations which are our legitimate heri-
tage.  There may be an expiation which may
perhaps atone for duties unfulfilled; but it can
never bring the same true happiness.  But who
would not rather make some sacrifice of feeling
for principle, than to eventually be called upon
to repay the uttermost farthing.  We are all so-
cial beings, and there are many duties we owe
to each other, which if neglected as we pass
along, and allowed to accumulate, may foot up
a terrible bill against us in time to come. We
are, none of us, independent of others, and we
should so live as to understand our true rela-
tions to our families, and friends, to society,
and above all the duty and allegiance we owe
to Him who is our Creator and the Father of
our spirits.  That such may be the happy lot
of those who have started out with renewed
covenants, to serve God and keep His com-
mandments, is our most earnest prayer.
	July 13th, 1875.


A GOLD MINE IN EMBRYO.

	Here are free to all the elements from which
can be obtained all that man need to enjoy.
But his existence depends upon the purity of
the air he breathes, his happiness depends up-
on the society he mingles in, and his society to
him is a nucleus in embryo, that will tell its
tale in after years. If we wish to enjoy a hap-
py result we must bear in mind that all de-
pends upon the right selections.
	Selection in reading, in thinking, in labor 
and of everything that will result in the great-
est good. And as causes produce effects, and
there can be no effect without a cause, it is
quite necessary that our care and attention
should be directed to the cause, while in em-
bryo, that it may be remedied prior to maturi-
ty. Well says one, the nucleus, if there is one
being formed, is so small, that I cannot see it.
	Well in this case there is greater safety in
counsel with those that have a clearer vision.
There must be a nucleus or an effect appar-
ently seen to produce action, which is based
upon two principles, independent or dependent
vision.  If independent we labor by the
promptings of our  intuition, but as there
is no reliable independency secured to man on
earth, we are virtually dependent for every
thing enjoyed, or hoped for, and we labor upon
the principle of faith; and we may call faith
the cause, and knowledge the effect.
	I will here cite my readers to one fact based
upon a mulberry seed, and another upon a silk
worm seed. By faith and works dependent up-
on the blessing of God, the mulberry seed be-
came a forest; and the silk worm seed in the
care of a delicate, faithful, persevering woman
who, prompted by faith, had wandered to this
forest, and with her labor and care, this little
seed became a million; and the million is now
winding its silk.
	For proof dear reader, go and see for yourself,
prior to the silk being exchanged into gold, at
President Young's Cocoonery.
							I'LL TRY.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Kellog English Opera Troupe who re-
cently appeared in our theatre, opened an en-
gagement in Maguire's new theatre in San
Francisco, July 5th. They seem to be as highly
appreciated there, according to newspaper re-
ports, as they were here and are playing the
same style of pieces.
	THE CHILDREN are rehearsing for the Twen-
ty-fourth of July Jubilee, under the direction
of Prof. C. J. Thomas, in the New Tabernacle,
Sunday mornings.  Preparations are rapidly
going forward for the decoration which has
been already commenced under the supervis-
ion of the former committee, and a grand enter-
tainment in music songs recitations etc., is
anticipated.
	AN EXCELLENT quality of glycerine soap,
called "Bath Sand Tablets" is manufactured
by H. H. Wadman & Co., of this city. The
ingredients used, as well as the preparing and
compounding of them, are entirely of home
production; which is one strong recommenda-
tion.  Another is, that young ladies who have
tried it, think they have never found anything
to equal its efficacy in removing chaps or rough-
ness from the face and hands.
	THE "ADVOCATE," and the "Educational
Journal" are new publications just started in
this city, of which we have received first is-
sues. The former is calculated to become "a
first class advertising medium" and will there-

[Column 2]
fore be gratuitous.  The latter is published as
its name indicates, in the interest of education.
There is plenty of work for each in its line,
and judging from the appearance of the cop-
ies before us, the labor of each will be ably
performed.
	WE RECEIVED a pleasant call Tuesday, July
13th, From Dr. Mary. J. Safford Blake, of
Boston, who is now on her way to the Pacific
coast.  This lady is an active worker in Wo-
man's Cause, is an earnest advocate of hygien-
ic dress reform, which she not only preaches,
but practices, and is interested also in suffrage
and all subjects which tend to the equality of
woman with man.
	She expressed herself pleased with our city
and its surroundings, and in particular with
the efforts being made for the development and
elevation of woman, but like all others of the
outside world was unable from her standpoint
to take the same views that we do of our pecu-
liar system of marriage; yet she was most char-
itable, believing us to be truly earnest and sin-
cere.  She is certainly a most intelligent and
attractive person, and we very truly regretted
her not being able to stay longer in our city.
	SEVERAL R. S. Reports are unavoidably
held over for want of space.  At the general
meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, Saturday,
July 10th, the time was chiefly occupied by
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselors E. R.
Snow and E. Howard and Mrs. E. S. Barney.
These sisters who lately visited the settlements
as far South as Sanpete, meeting with the Re-
lief Societies, and also attending meetings ap-
pointed by President Young and the brethren
who accompanied him, have returned home
filled with the testimony of the Holy Spirit,
the Power of God unto Salvation.  We
would rejoice in giving to those who were not
permitted to attend the meeting on Saturday,
the words of Living Truth as they flowed from
the lips of the sisters mentioned; but had we
time, space and ability to put them on paper,
they would thus seem too tame and weak,
wanting the influence, the potency, with
which they were uttered.  The day for the next
regular meeting being the "Twenty Fourth,"
meeting was adjourned for one week only, in-
stead of two.
	THE EDITORIAL Excursion party who are
making a tour across the continent, reached
Salt Lake City by the evening train Saturday
evening July 10th, and took rooms at the
"Townsend House."  They visited the Taber-
nacle in the morning when all the Sunday
Schools from the different wards were assem-
bled to practice for the coming Jubilee.  In the
afternoon they attended the regular service
there.  Elder Orson Pratt occupied the stand.
Monday morning they went by train up
American Fork Canyon, and left the city
Tuesday afternoon for the West.  The party
is composed mostly of editors correspon-
dents etc. from New York and the East-
ern States, and some from Ohio, Pennsylvania,
and Washington.  They expect to reach San
Francisco on the 12th of August.  No doubt
their short visit in Salt Lake will furnish them
some items of interest, as Mormons and Mor-
monism seem to be a popular and never fail-
ing theme, for journalists etc. at the present
time.  We hope they will speak of us, our sur-
roundings and our institutions truthfully, and
not according to the reprepresentations of an
outside element which delights in scandal,
misrepresentation and untruthfulness.


IN Berne, Switzerland, the national coun-
cil has voted 25,000 francs to defray the ex-
penses of the representations of the coun-
try's products at the centennial.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"MAYN'T I BE A BOY?"
"Mayn't I be a boy?" asked our Mary,
	With tears in her great eyes of blue;
"I'm only a wee little lassie—
	And there's NOTHING a WOMAN can do!
"It's so; I heard cousin John say so—
	He's home from the great college too;
And he said it just now in the parlor—
	There's nothing a woman can do!"
"See here, my wee lassie, my darling,"
	Said I, putting back her soft hair,
"I want you, my own little daughter,
	To smooth away all mother's care.
"Who is it when pa comes home weary,
	That runs for his slippers and gown?
What eyes does he watch for at morning,
	Looking out from their lashes of brown?
"Is there nought you can do, little maiden?
	What was it that pa said last night?
My own little sunbeam is coming;
	I know, for the room is so bright.'
"And there is a secret, my Mary,
	Perhaps you will learn it some day;
The hand that's most willing and loving
	Will do the most work on the way.
"The work that is sweetest and dearest,
	Which many are failing to do,
Of making folks happy around them,
	May be done by a lassie like you."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Chocolate Cake.—Whites of two eggs, choco-
late sufficient to thicken, (generally use three
small cakes German prepared chocolate,) sweeten
to taste. Spread in layers between cakes, same
as in jelly cake. Cocoanut cake may be made in
the same way, using grated cocoanut, instead of
chocolate.
	Pan Dowdy.—This is a Yankee dish, and was
esteemed in the early days of the Republic as a
palatable, as well as a substantial one: Make a
rich crust; line a deep earthen pot with it; now
slice some pie apples quite thin for the layer,
strew the apples with molasses and spice, and a
teaspoonful of milk; cover with a thin crust and
repeat the process. Cover the top with crust and
your pan dowdy is made. Bake in a slow oven.
	Apple Puffs.—Mix a quarter of a pound of
butter with a quart of sifted flour, two eggs and a
spoonful of salt; half a teaspoonful soda; dissolve
in a little cold water; moisten it with cold water so,
that you can just roll it out easily; roll as thin as
possible; cut into cakes; put three of them togeth-
er; sprinkle flour between each one; lay on the top
thin slices of tart apples; sprinkle sugar and a lit-
tle nutmeg over them; inclose the apple by doub-
ling the pastry over them; press the edges well to-
gether; fry in sufficient hot lard to cover them.
When of  light brown take up carefully.
	Chops—Broiled.—Trim and flatten the chops
with a chopper, sprinkle salt and pepper on both
sides, dip them in melted butter, place them on a
gridiron and set on a sharp fire, turn over two or
three times to broil properly, and when done serve
them around a dish, one lapping over the other,
etc., and serve with the gravy. It takes about
twelve minutes to cook with a good fire. Another
way: When trimmed and flattened, dip them in
beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs and broil
either as they are or enveloped in buttered paper
	Kate's Pudding.—This Kate is a contributor to
the "Country Gentlemen," we think, but are not sure
that we have the right credit: "Yolks of four
eggs: one teacup of sugar; one quart of sweet milk;
one pint of bread crumbs; butter the size of an
egg, half a cup of raisins, (in the summer season
cherries, strawberries etc., are just as good); bake
half an hour; take the whites of the eggs and
beat to a stiff froth; add half a cup of sugar, and
the juice of one lemon (or lemon essence); return
to the oven and bake slightly. To be eaten cold.
	Rye and Indian Loaf.—Take two quarts coarse


corn meal, wet it thoroughly with two quarts boil-
ing water, add two quarts rye meal; mix inti-
mately, make into a loaf three or four inches deep,
or, if convenient, put it into Boston brown bread
pans, place on top of the stove, where it is barely
hot enough to make it simmer, let it stand here un-
til it cracks well over the whole surface, say an
hour and a half or two hours. Then put into a
hot oven, bake two or three hours, according to
the size of the loaf, then cool the oven gradually,
or take the loaf out and steam it an hour or two.
—Rural N. Y.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The following recipes are in use at Dr. Trall's
eminent Hygienic table, at the Hygieian Home,
Florence Hights, N. J:
	Rye Bread.—Pour boiling water on rye meal
and mix into a stiff dough, make it into squares
or rolls and bake in a hot oven. When the be-
ginner can manipulate the dough readily, he may
succeed in making it light in loaves three inches in
diameter.
	Rye and Indian Fruit Loaf.—To five quarts of
fine corn meal add five pints rye meal, mix thor-
oughly, add water as hot as the hands will bear,
and make into a not very stiff dough, then add
three pints of stewed raisins and three pints of
washed currants, mix intimately, fill a deep pan
and smooth it over the surface, steam it six or
eight hours (all night if convenient), bake about
two hours longer, and serve warm or cold.
	The Herald of Health says: Friction is one of
the most valuable hygienic agents in restoring lost
health or maintaining good health. It is impor-
tant as part of the bath and when a bath cannot
be taken dry friction is servicable. If every per-
son on rising or retiring would spend ten minutes
in rubbing the body it would be beneficial in
equalizing the circulation, relieving internal con-
gestion, exercising the skin and invigorating
the whole body. Invalids who cannot rub them-
selves should employ healthy people to do it for
them. Gentle friction on the temples often cures
headache.
	Dr. Hall relates the case of a man who was
cured of his billiousness by going without his sup-
per and drinking freely of lemonade. Every
morning, says the doctor, this patient arose with a
wonderful sense of rest and refreshment, and feel-
ing as though the blood had been literally washed,
cleansed and cooled by the lemonade and fast.
His theory is that food can be used as a remedy
for many diseases successfully. As an example,
he cures spitting of blood by use of salt; epilepsy
by watermelon; kidney affection with celery; poi-
son, olive or sweet oil; erysiplaes, pounded cran-
berries applied to the parts affected; hydrophobia,
onions, etc. So the way to keep in good health is
really to know what to eat—not to know what
medicine to take.
	Lime Water for Burns.—The readiest and most
useful remedy for scalds and burns is an embroca-
tion of limewater and linseed oil. These simple
agents combined form a thick, cream-like substance,
which effectually excludes the air from the injured
parts, and allays the inflamation almost instantly.
A case is recorded where a child fell backward in-
to a bath-tub of boiling water, and was nearly
flayed from her neck to below her hips. Her
agonies were indescribable; but her clothing being
gently removed, and the lime and oil preparation
thickly spread over the injured surface, she was
sound asleep in five minutes. Subsequently the
parts were carefully washed with warm milk and
water three times a day, the oil dressing renewed,
and the little patient rapidly recovered. Though
all the scalded skin came off she did not have a
scar. This remedy leaves no hard coat to dry on
the sores, but softens the parts and aids nature to


repair the injury in the readiest and most expedi-
tious manner. This mixture may be procured in
the drug stores, but if not accessible, slake a
lump of quicklime in water, and as soon as the
water is clear mix it with the oil and shake it
well. If the case is urgent pour boiling water
over the lime, and it will become clear in five min-
utes. The preparation may be kept bottled in the
house, and it will be as good  six months old as
when first made.—R. N. Y.


For the EXPONENT.
	FRIENDSHIPS OF WOMEN.

		"Friendship is not a plant of hasty growth;
		Though planted in esteem's deep fixed soil;
		The gradual culture of kind intercourse,
		Must bring it to perfection."
	The sentiment embodied in this beautiful
extract from "Joanna Baillie," is one which
carries a conviction of its truth to every
strict observer of the laws of nature.
	Friendship cannot exist without a solid
basis, and time and cultivation alone can
rear such a one. To be sure, a casual and
timely kindness, administered, perhaps, in
an hour of extreme necessity, may bind us
unconsciously, and with gratitude, to one
whom we have never before met, yet it is
certainly an undeveloped friendship, com-
posed  more of gratitude than any other ele-
ment.
	Sympathy is one of the grand elements
of friendship, and helps to alleviate, soften
and cheer the adversities of our every day
life.  Our Savior possessed, in a most re-
markable degree, this genuine sympathy
for the poor, the needy, and the unfortu-
nate.  One of our favorite poets has said,
"Sympathy is the robe of friendship."
	Friendship among women is one of the
most prolific sources of happiness; there
are so many subjects of mutual interest con-
nected with the home relation, and the
peculiar position wives and mothers occupy,
that to feel perfect confidence in exchang-
ing ideas and sentiments, and in the expres-
sion of the finest feelings of the human
soul, there is a refreshing relief in being
able to confide in one another.
	The tastes of women being similar is an-
other adaptibility; there are so many mat-
ters separate and distinct from the ordinary
pursuits and occupations of men, which
pertain to a woman's active life, that will
admit of such a variety of interchange of
views that, however intimate their rela-
tions with each other, these seldom ever
lose their interest, or become stale or weari-
some.
	Men would fain have us believe, women
have too much envy and jealousy in their
composition, to be true enough to each
other to enjoy the sublimest order of friend-
ship; that rivalry is so strongly interwoven
with every fibre of their heart and affec-
tions, as to render them incapable of devot-
ed attachments to each other; but even ad-
mitting there are such natures, there are
others of a more exalted character, who are
too wholly destitute of selfishness them-
selves, to stoop to such debasing thoughts
and suspicions; who live under the influ-
ence of a higher element, and partake more
largely of the true spirit of benevolence
and Christian charity.  Are not such per-
sons capable of being devoted and ardent
admirers of all that is lovable and excellent
in each other? And when intimate asso-
ciation, together with surrounding influ-
ences which tend to heighten and strength-
en their confidence in each other blend and
cement their affections, they are assuredly
a comfort and a stay to each other, which
will bring additional happiness to invigorate


their higher natures. How often we hear
the expression, I have proved her. "Thou
art the friend to whom the shadows of long
years extend."
	Can there be anything purer than a friend-
ship between two or more women of supe-
rior natures, which time, pleasant associa-
tion and friendly intercourse has developed
and ripened? You may call it love, and to
a certain extent, perhaps, it is; but it is love
entirely free from passion, and I very much
prefer the term friendship—to me it is a
pleasant word, calling up a thousand happy
memories in the past, and suggesting many
pleasing ones in the future.  Such instances
are not rare, and where the Spirit of God
dwells in the hearts of those who are sus-
taining intimate family relations, the truest,
purest and most exalted friendship may
exist, such as time itself will only strength-
en, and will reach into eternity, purified,
refined and etherealized.
	It is my firm and full belief that the love
based upon true genuine friendship is the
most endurable, whether in men or women.
But in that as in every other sentiment or
principle of our lives there must be a cer-
tain amount of faith in the person, and good-
ness to inspire confidence; and the best
proof people can give of their sincerity
is that they trust without doubt or suspicion
in the integrity of those with whom they
associate.  We are all of the "earth earthy"
and consequently we crave more or less
companionship, but I do not know as that is
a result of our earthiness, perhaps it is a
misapplication of the term, but there is a
desire for congenial and friendly relations
which is a part of our nature; we find by
experience that all persons are not exactly
suited to each other, but that there are na-
tures which have a bond of sympathy un-
derlying them with which our own true in-
uitions mingle in sweet unison, and unity
brings happiness when it subsists between
women of kindred feeling, as well as when
it appears in the opposite sexes.
	July 14th, 1875.			EMILIE.
					E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Permit me to say that I have been a
member of our Society since the date of its
organization, and have perused with plea-
sure your invaluable paper, delighted more
particularly with the communications or
letters from the sisters from the various set-
tlements descriptive of their prosperity,
and have not unfrequently looked with in-
creasing anxiety to see a correspondence
written by some member of our Society,
dated at Centreville, but up to date have
looked in vain. Why is it? I must crave
to be indulged while I say that there are
those among us, members of the Society,
whose age, experience and intelligence,
qualify them for usefulness in almost any
intellectual line of life, and who, if they
only thought so, could indite matter that
would not fail to interest and enlighten the
reading fraternity. Our annual meeting
convened on Wednesday the 23rd of the
present month, and from Teachers' reports
on that occasion a general good feeling pre-
vails among the sisterhood with a desire to
be found active in every laudable under-
taking.		Yours most Devotedly,
				CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.
June 27th, 1875.
DEAR SISTERS:
	Perhaps at the present time, when so
much is said and written concerning the
[Column 2]
rights of woman, it may not be amiss to
present a few of my thoughts on the sub-
ject. While we fully appreciate the privi-
lege of attending the ballot box, and would
gladly avail ourselves of all the rights and
privileges the laws of our country will allow,
we should ever feel that we, as mothers and
daughters in Israel, have a greater right
and a nobler mission to perform. The Lord
in the beginning said, "She shall be a help-
meet for man." It is not, then, our pro-
vince to usurp the place, or do the work of
our husbands, but to assist them, by every
means in our power, and if they are called
upon to perform any duty in the kingdom
of God, throw no hindrance in their way.
	Should we sometimes find them depressed
in spirits, because of the trials they have to
encounter, let us speak comforting words,
and assist them by our faith and prayers;
thus shall we with them attain to a more
honorable position in the kingdom of God.
	When we look around upon the present
degenerate state of society, and see the
fearful amount of disunion and crime that
prevails on every hand, and the discord and
strife that is too often characteristic of the
domestic circle, parents unmindful of the
important relation in which they stand to
their children, and children forgetful of the
duty and allegiance they owe to their
parents, we are led to inquire the reason,
and compelled to acknowledge that much of
this evil arises from the ignorance of
parents in not understanding properly their
position. But we have been better taught
to know the purpose for which we were cre-
ated, and the duties that devolve upon us.
It is our province and right to lead and
train the infant mind properly, while our
children are yet young and tender, and
capable of receiving a lasting impression of
good, before the Destroyer has gained time
to exert his poisonous and too often fatal in-
fluence. Let us with patient perseverance,
both by precept and example, strive to in-
still into their minds the great principle of
righteousness and self-control, teaching our
daughters to excel in virtue, modesty, and
every grace conducive to the improvement
and happiness of society, and their own
exaltation in the sphere of heavenly intelli-
gence; cultivating "a meek and quiet spirit
which in the sight of God is of great
price." "For favour is deceitful, and beauty
is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord
she shall be praised."
	With our sons the task may often appear
more arduous; we may find it wisdom to
exercise a greater forbearance, and even
then sometimes feel almost discouraged at
their waywardness; but let us not think our
labor is in vain, for says the Scripture, "Cast
thy bread upon the waters and after many
days it shall be found again." Let us en-
deavor to impress upon their minds, that
they may  be the happy instruments of
disseminating the great truths of the Ever-
lasting Gospel; and it will be their honor-
able privilege to assist in establishing right-
teousness on the earth; and thus earn for
themselves, during their earthly probation,
"a celestial crown of glory that fadeth not
away." Let us teach them that before they
can aspire to this, they must first learn to
govern themselves, and be ever willing to
listen to the counsel of those in authority
over them; and thus gain the greatest of all
victories, a conquest over self.
	Rest assured, dear sisters, that if we do
this, we shall be exercising some of the no-
blest rights of woman. In this shall we
fulfill our destiny, and be taking the position
our Allwise Father designed that we should,
and it shall be said of us, as was said of one
[Column 3]
in days of old, "Her children arise up and
call her blessed, her husband also and he
praiseth her."
	Then let us neither faint nor be weary
but go to Him who is is the Fountain of
Light and the Giver of all good, and He will
give us strength according to our need.
These I conceive to be some of the greatest
rights of woman.
	Kamas.			PHEBE YOUNG.


VALEDICTORY,

COMPOSED AND READ AT THE CLOSE OF
MISS M. E. COOK'S GRADED SCHOOL:
TERM, JUNE 26TH, 1875, BY ONE
OF HER PUPILS.

	FELLOW PUPILS:—The time has at last
come when we must part; it may be that.
some of us bid each other adieu forever
We leave this house, these walls (that have
what we call imprisoned us,) but in after
years, shall we not recall the days spent
here with affectionate remembrance, and
in memory linger fondly over the happy
scenes replete with gaiety and childish
mirth, when life seemed all brightness, and
real sorrow was to us unknown?
	Will we not chide ourselves then for the
many unkind acts we have shown our
teachers and schoolfellows, and will not all
that has been pleasant in our associations
together, leave an impression of lasting in-
fluence upon our hearts, binding us to each
other, with many tender feelings, even
though separated by land or sea? In
looking back, will not these, our school-
days, be remembered as among the happiest
of our lives?
	I will leave it to you, who have assembled
here from day to day, to answer these ques-
tions, and if you do not realize them now,
perhaps you will in time to come.
	Let us each and every one thank our kind
teachers for the watchful care and attention
shown us by them from day to day, for the
knowledge they have sought to impart, and
for directing our minds in a proper channel
of thought, helping us to understand those
things most useful, and which will be of
the most real benefit to us in our practical
life.
	That our future lives may be properly di-
rected for our good and we may all live so as
to be able to meet again after we have fin-
ished our work here is my earnest prayer;
that God will bless us all with His Holy
Spirit, that we may endure patiently what-
ever trials life may bring, that when we
shall be called away, we may feel that our
work has been well and faithfully done.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	Mrs. M. E. PARKER, a distinguished advocate
of Suffrage and Temperance, from Dundee,
Scotland, recently visited America.  She came
as delegate to the Right Worthy Grand Lodge
of Good Templars, who held their session at
Bloomington, Iowa, this season.  She was ap-
pointed delegate from that Lodge, to the Na-
tional Temperance Convention, held soon after
in Chicago.  On her route homeward she visit-
ed the most noted places, taking in New York
and Boston, and everywhere earnestly and
spiritedly advocating the great cause of reform.
She sailed for Scotland the first week in the 
present month.
	MISS MARY Holman Ladd, of Boston,
who has just graduated from Cornell Uni-
versity, had assigned to her the distin-


guished honor of delivering the Commence-
ment Oration at that institution, being the
first young lady who has ever won that dis-
tinction.  Her oration was entitled "The 
Iphigenia of Euripides and Goethe," and
was purely classical in style.  While upon
the commencement stage she was repeatedly
applauded, and showered with bouquets,
proving how truly her efforts were appre-
ciated by the audience.  She intends study-
ing ore year more in Boston, for the de-
gree of A. M. at Cornell.
	MRS. DR. Ryder, a pupil of Mrs. Lozier,
is becoming very popular as a lecturer. She
is now lecturing in New England and pre-
viously made a tour of Central New York.
	Miss Alice Bradford is another Boston
girl who has graduated at Cornell this year,
from the Scientific Department.  She mer-
ited some distinction as an essayist in the
senior class, ranking one of the best among
six; and she has been accorded the limited
privilege of contending for the Woodford
prize of $100, for oratory.
	MRS. BURTON, wife of Capt. Burton the
British Consul at Damascus, has prepared
for publication a work, giving sketches of
the kind of life English women may lead in
the East, and of the customs and manner
of living, of the inhabitants.  The book is
soon to be published, and will be entitled,
"The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine and the 
Holy Land."
	DR. LAURA B. Chase is lecturing in and
about New York.  She is a woman possess-
ing great moral courage, and speaks with
great force and earnestness to both sexes.
She is even courageous enough to give pri-
vate lectures to men, on their follies, sins
and crimes.  Her listeners, and even clergy-
man who have heard her, commend her in
high terms of praise, for her words of cau-
tion and wisdom.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.

	A GOOD MAXIM.—It is more moral to be-
lieve ourselves to be bad, than to imagine
ourselves to be good.
	THE golden beams of truth and the silver
cords of love, twisted together, will draw
men on with a sweet violence, whether they
will or not.
	HUMAN affairs are not so happily arrang-
ed that the best things please the most
men. It is a proof of a bad cause when it
is applauded by the most.
	AN eager pursuit of fortune is inconsist-
ent with severe devotion to truth. The
heart must become tranquil before the
thought can become searching.
	THE roots of morals and of religion are
ever intertwined, and they draw their
strength from the same soil, are fed from
heaven with the same rains. and grow per-
petually toward the self-same light.
	NATURE is sent to teach us by her autum-
nal parables; and every fading leaf on every
tree, with its bud of future growth hid be-
hind it, becomes a solemn text, warning us
to "secure while the leaf is yet green the
germ that shall live when the frosts of death
have destroyed both fruit and flower."—
Maximillian.
	IT is worthier to strive and fail, than not
to have either capacity or will to strive at
all. In the conflicts of duty, there are re-
serves of power on the side of right, which
are at the disposal of one who wrestles and
overcomes. Pain may be blessed to us in
the larger and more generous sympathy


which it creates within us; and renuncia-
tion which is willingly adopted, adds to
character a crowning grace.
	THE love that survives the tomb is the
noblest attribute of the soul. If it has
woes, it has likewise its delights; and when
the overwhelming burst of grief is lulled
into the gentle tear of recollection, then
the sudden anguish and convulsive agony
over the present ruins of all we most loved
are softened away into pensive meditation
of all that it was in the days of its lovelines.
Who would root such a sorrow from the
heart? Though it may sometimes throw a
passing cloud over the bright hour of gai-
ety, or spread a deeper sadness over the
hour of gloom, yet who would exchange it
for the song of pleasure or the burst of rev-
elry. No; there is a voice from the tomb
sweeter than song: there is a remembrance
of the dead to which we turn even from the
charm of the living.


PURE GIRLS AND IMPURE BOYS.

	Girls, in treating dissipated young men as
their equals, do a wrong they can scarcely
realize. Such men should be made to feel
that until they walk with correctness and
honor in the paths of right, good people
stand aloof from them. Girls who respect
themselves will not be seen with such men,
and will decline to receive them on the fa-
miliar footing of friendship. It is a mis-
taken kindness to poultice when caustic is
needed, and I  inclined to think that a
little sharp decision on the part of the girls
of to-day would go far to correct the gener-
al looseness of morality among young men.
—Woman's Journal.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	BITS of frontier life—Scalps.
	THE war of races—races for office.
	THE largest room in the world is the
room for improvement.
	What word is always pronounced wrong,
even by the best of scholars?—Wrong.
	THE article most commonly sold at fancy
fairs is the visitor.
	WHY is coal the most contradictory arti-
cle known to commerce? Because, when
purchased it goes to the cellar,
	THERE is a time for all things. The time
to leave, is when a young lady asks you
how the walking is.
	WHY should the last boy born to a family
be named Doxology?  Because he is the
last of the hims.
	"TWO soles that beat as one," remarked
the boy to his mother, as she was dealing
with him for his sins with both slippers at
once.
	CHARLES Lamb, when speaking of one of
his rides on horseback, remarked that "all
at once his horse stopped, but he kept right
on."
	WHEN a woman stands at the hymeneal
alter with her intended, you may know she
is about to draw her beau into a knot.
	A COUNTRY girl wants to know where
the laugh comes in about spelling matches.
She knows of but one way.
	THE most bashful girl we ever heard of
was the young lady who blushed when she
was asked if she had not been courting
sleep.


"YOU'RE a fraud,"  is a favorite expres-
sion with some young ladies. Well, nine
cases out of ten they're correct, and if
they look in the glass they'll see another.
	It is as dangerous to inform a man of his
faults without giving offence, as it is to tel
him of his good qualities without flatter-
ing him.
	CAN you inform me," said a student to a
book-seller, "whether I can find anywhere
the biography of Pollock?" "Yes I dare
say you will find it in the "Course of Time."
	SOME ingenious observer has discovered
that there is a remarkable resemblance be-
tween a baby and wheat, since it is cradled,
then thrashed, and finally becomes the
flower of the family.


EVERY DESCRIPTION.
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND 
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, 
		Feathers, Wall Paper, 
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.
			CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year wth a copy, to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	- 	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving I2 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of Presidcnt Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4 -	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
 	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers. 
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should scnd us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4. 				﻿SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1875.				NO. 5.


FIRESIDE MUSINGS.

I am dreaming alone by the fire to-night,
As I sit by the hearthstone so radiant and bright,
And I see in the blaze of the coal's gleaming glow
An emblem of this, our strange life below.
The blaze is the wild dancing visions of youth,
So beaming with bright hopes, of glory and truth,
Chasing sorrow and shadowy doubt all away
As the darkness of night fades, with mornings bright ray.

Now the blaze in its glory is sinking so low,
That shadows hang over the coals steady glow,
As fade our bright visions of life's morn away,
They too cast a shadow o'er all our pathway.
Our hearts may still glow with warmth and delight,
But our hopes for the future are seldom so bright,
As in the fresh morning of beauty and love,
Ere dark clouds obstructed the suns rays above.

But lo, as I ponder on life as it seems,
So mixed with deep sorrows and joys fitful gleams,
Now pleasant the pathway, now rugged and hard
And weary the feet that each pitfall must guard:
The fire is fading, gray ashes o'er all
Makes me think with a sigh of the shroud and the pall,
Yet this sorrow is half of its bitterness shorn,
As I catch a bright gleam of Eternity's Morn.
										Hope.


[Column 1]
				For the Exponent.
		THE DRAMA.

	"To make the soul by tender stroke of art;
	To raise the genius, and to mend the heart;
	To make mankind in conscious virtue bold,
	Live o'er the scene, and be what they behold;—
	For this the tragic muse first trod the stage:
	Commanding tears to stream through every age."
	It has long been a matter of surprise to
me why theatrical entertainments are so
studiously slighted, and earnestly con-
demned by some portions of society.  It is
to be hoped that such people consider they
have a true and just cause for their dislike,
for in the minds of the majority of right
thinking individuals, opinions entirely op-
posite are entertained.
	Is their aversion founded on the belief
that sights and examples of this kind fur-
nish pernicious teachings, and give false
ideas concerning life and nature? Or is it
that they regard theatre going as a waste-
ful and useless expenditure of time and
money, that they class it as a contaminating
agency, and shun and avoid all who make
the drama their profession as idle, dissipat-
ed and dishonorable associates? Let us
see.  Should we appreciate literature? Yes.
Should we admire beauty and talent? Yes.
Should we offend heaven by disregarding
and neglecting those pure sentiments and
tastes for the beautiful and good, with
which its bounty has endowed us?  Should
we consider it a crime to have a generous
sympathy awakened in our natures by the
voice of eloquence, and the representation
of life?
	If so, then denounce the drama as a
vicious and debasing influence.  Shakspeare
says, "The purpose of playing is to hold,
as it were, the mirror up to nature; to
show virtue her own face, scorn her own
image, and the very age and body of the
times their form and pressure." If this is
so, should we consider it as a needless waste
of time and money?  Should we not rather
patronize and appreciate the theatre and
its productions, rather than to condemn and
discourage them? No doubt a great deal of
the dislike arises from the fact, that sensa-
tional and even immoral plays are not un-

[Column 2]
frequently produced, and that the persons
engaged in the profession are of dissolute
and disreputable character.  This is unde-
niably true; but is it not more the fault of 
the persons, than the profession.  This class
should not be taken as an index to the
whole. A man or woman need not necessa-
rily be a drunkard, or bear an evil name be-
cause they adopt this line of life.  A noble
and instructive drama should not be despised
because an extravagant, sensational and
vicious play is introduced on the same
boards, at times, to please certain vulgar
and degenerate tastes.  The drama, in its
native purity, embodies all the graces, and
not only fascinates and refines the senses by
the beauty and talent it displays, and the
interest and amusement it affords, but pre-
sents to the view of the audience a reflec-
tion of human nature; and is, therefore, a
valuable means of educating the mind in
the study of life and character.  It is a high
and intelligent profession, and requires in-
dividuals of a high and intelligent order to
represent it faithfully.  There are thousands
of inferior artists laboring in the field, but
glance at the top round of the ladder. Are
the names of Garrick, Kemble, Siddons,
Cushman, Forrest and Booth looked at with
contempt, or spoken of with disrespect?
No, they occupy prominent niches in the
temple of fame, and their memories will
live as long as any of the great writers of
their day, for they are representative char-
acters of their times.  To all those who de-
nounce the drama as vicious and debasing,
say this: the fault lies with yourselves; ig-
norance and bigotry never did appreciate
intelligence and refinement—and far better
would it be for you to seek to educate your
own natures by the very means which you
so bitterly condemn, than to remain the
victims of the false and pitiable error into
which you have fallen.
						THESPIS.
	Salt Lake City, July 23rd, 1875.


For the Exponent.
POETRY, HOW CAN WE DEFINE IT?

		By Blanche Beechwood.

	"Tis not the chime and flow of words that move
	In measured file, and metrical array:
	'Tis not the union of returning sounds
	Nor all the pleasing artifice of rhyme,
	And quantity, and accent."

	Is there a word in our language more ex-
pressive and comprehending more sublime,
lofty and holy ideas than poetry. The
greatest writers whose works have ever
been given to the world only touch the sub-
ject. The Dictionary tells us that poetry is
imaginative composition either in prose or
verse. The term is understood by the
masses of mankind as being rhyme with a
certain metre, but those whose souls have a
touch of this ideal sublimity inherent in
them, find poetry embracing a variety of
subjects; they appreciate the poetry of mu-
sic, of motion, of nature most of all; the
running brook, the sparkling fount, the
grand ocean, "the sighing of the sad sea
waves," everything that strikes harmoni-
ously upon the charmed sense.
	It is an inspiration in the truest version of


the word, but one capable of the most lofty
cultivation: it is the extreme depth and mi-
nutest expression of sorrow, and the most
ecstatic and exquisite joy. Byron said:
	"Many are poets, who never have penned
		Their inspiration."
	Who can say but it is a spark of divinity,
which "the gods" have implanted within
us, happify our mortal life, and to iden-
tify us with themselves. Life itself is one
great unwritten poem; each embodied spirit
is the artist who tries his hand, his skill, his
energies his capabilities more or less success-
fully, in representing it in beauty, in real-
ity, in holiness, in sublimity.  An apprecia-
tion of all that is most lovable, most beauti-
ful, and most attractive to the finer inner
senses, brings a loftier elevation of tone, of
sentiment and of nearness to God. It lifts
us into a higher atmosphere, assists us to
control, to govern annd refine those attri-
butes of our nature not in harmony with
the influence of this soul-cheering concep-
tion of poetry.  It exalts, strengthens and
invigorates the human mind, according to
the proportion it enjoys.  It makes the hut
a palace, it makes duty easy and gives a
zest and flavor to each passing hour. But
lest I weary my gentle readers I will close,
and anon I will give you a few more ideas
of mine, upon the poetry of life.  And if
some of our over-worked practical people
would breathe in a little of this exhilara-
ting element, their every-day life would be-
come a more complete realization of the de-
sign of their creation.
	Salt Lake City, July 29th, 1875.


MEN OF LITERARY GENIUS.

	Tasso's conversation was neither gay nor
brilliant. Dante was neither taciturn nor
satirical. Butler was sullen or biting. Gray
seldom talked or smiled. Hogarth and
Smith were very absent minded in com-
pany. Milton was very unsociable, and even
irritable when pressed into conversation.
Kirwan, though copious and eloquent in
public addresses, was meagre and dull in
colloquial discourse.  Virgil was heavy in
conversation. La Fontaine appeared heavy,
coarse and stupid; he could not speak and
describe what he had just seen; but then he
was the model of poetry. Chaucer's silence
was more agreeable than his conversation.
Dryden's conversation was slow and dull,
his humor saturnine and reserved. Cor-
neille, in conversation was so insipid that he
never failed in wearying; he did not even
speak correctly that language of which he
was such a master. Ben Johnson used to
sit silent in company and suck his wine and
their humors. Southey was stiff, sedate
and wrapped up in asceticism. Addison
was good company with his intimate friends,
but in mixed company he preserved his
dignity by a stiff and reserved silence. Fox
in conversation never flagged, his anima-
tion and variety were inexhaustible. Dr.
Bentley was loquacious, so also was Grotius.
Goldsmith "wrote like an angel and talked
like poor Poll." Burke was entertaining,
enthusiastic and interesting in conversation.
Curran was a convivial deity.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			LETTER
OF ELDER ORSON SPENCER TO HIS OR-
	PHAN CHILDREN, WHILE ON A
		FOREIGN MISSION
(Printed by permission of the family)
		LIVERPOOL March 25th, 1848.
MY DEAR CHILDREN:
	Having a few leisure moments, (which is
a rare thing for me,) it gives me very great
pleasure to write to you whome I love with
the most inexpressible fondness. You are
my dearest treasures upon the earth.
Your mother was one of the loveliest of her
sex: generous and open hearted in love to
all our race. Under all circumstances I al-
ways found a welcome asylum in her breast,
and she characterized her whole life by
those admirable virtues which secured the
spontaneous delight and good will of all
who knew her. In you, my dear children,
I see many traits of her lovely spirit, and
also her features. From her, my own mind
has received many a beautifying grace and
virtue: and few could live with her as
long as I did without being enriched and
ennobled by such association. Thus far,
your lives are full of promise, your minds
are all intelligence and your hearts innocent
and pure. The spirit of God can dwell with
you, and assist you to emulate celestial wor-
thies. I desire so to live that my example
and teaching shall tend to give you a
mould and polish which will make heaven
happier at your approach, and angels to re-
joice over you as in the acquisition of the
richest of pearls.
	Dear children, for my own sake then,
don't be discouraged or impatient, but try
to live through your appointed days, for
your lot is cast in an age of sorrow mingled
indeed with the sweet solace of redeeming
triumphs. Deprived of your mother by
death, and your father by obedience to the
counsels of the church, your path-way is
perilous and stormy. Sometimes without
shoes to your feet and sometimes without
bread, surrounded with savage foes, with-
out any assurance that I will be restored to
you for a long time yet to come, you may
indeed often wonder why your lot is thus;
and why want and orphanage and peril and
a homeless pilgrimage should all come upon
you at once, and that, while you are at an
age so tender.
	While I am writing, I suppose you are
struggling with all the energy and dili-
gence your tender minds are capable of to
escape to the mountains; being required to
leave the little cabin and garden and field,
that I had hoped would shield you till I
come to comfort you. But you must re-
cross the river and build anew, or flee to the
mountains, the latter I prefer, as the coun-
try is sickly and the times perilous. Still
your means are very scanty for such a jour-
ney to a land where you must make the
only home you will have, without me to
counsel or accompany you. If you go over
the mountains I may not hear from you or
you from me for nearly a year and a half.
My dear children I trust God, who coun-
sels us to walk the narrow way, will be your
sheild and defense and provide for your
wants and keep you all alive till we meet
again, where the fury of the opressor can-
not overtake us, and the storms of heavenly
indignation pass us by in the day of great
distress. If I am counseled to endure this
long separation and to expose you to such
privations, my prayer shall be the more fer-
vent in your behalf, and with strength of
heart and soul, I shall plead for your lives
to be spread,and your minds kept unpolluted.
[Column 2]
	Love one another and bear with each oth-
er's faults. Cherish the spirit of God by
patience and kindness. Never yield to sin
or do anything that you would be ashamed
to ask God about or tell me of. Let no one
entice you to do wrong, woever they may
be. Keep together, live together and do
not separate. Be friends to one another,
and caution the younger sisters and brothers
against accidents, against bad conduct and
bad company. Believe that God can hear
and help you when you need it, and tell you
many things which are neccessary for you
to know and to do. Learn to trust in God
for all good things, and to be thankful for
all favors, And if God should not allow
me to return any more on the earth, you
will be visited from the heavens when it is
requisite. Be cheerful and happy and cher-
ish virtue and truth and strive to be an or-
nament to my family forever. Contract no
alliance incompatible with the interests of
the family. And if you maintain a blame-
less life you will survive all discourage-
ments, and those that bless you shall be
blessed, and they that harm you shall be
cursed, and God and angels will be you
friends, and your parents shall never slum-
ber over your condition, worlds without
end.
	Your journey will be long and tedious you
will need to be very careful not to get lost
from your camp on the journey; and also be
cautious in regard to the hostile Indians,ser-
pents or dangerous roots and herbs. Do
not walk out at night away from the camo
while on the journey. You will scarcely be
saved with the utmost faith, dilligence and
economy. My anxieties about you from the
time you leave will I see you will be unceas-
ingly great.
	My oldest daughters:—on you is rolled a
great responsibility seemingly beyond your
years. Be womanly, kind and patient, act
the part of mothers to the younger child-
ren. Teach them good principles and in-
struct them how to act. Avoid in yourselves
the weakness and folly of youth as much as
possible. Never forget or slight my coun-
sel for this is the commandment of God.
	Don't be in haste to marry for in due time
you shall have husbands that will cherish 
and exalt you,for you are forming char-
acters that will render you deserving of
such. The Lord will give you men after
His own heart that will not oppress or abuse
you. I shall seek for your welfare in this as
in all other things.
	To you all I would say, remember two
things always. Honor your father and
mother to whom you have been sealed at
the sacred altar with the Holy Spirit of
promise for ever and ever—Amen. And
next to the name of God honor your Father
whether he is spared to live or is removed
to the heavens before you. Let his name
be forerever your name else you will dishonor
him. His happiness is bound up in you.
Lessen not his happiness amd crown by de-
parting to other fathers and guardians. I
think I write to you according to the mind
of God. I am not permitted to speak face
to face but I write unto you as a father
with soberness and godly fear. Treasure
up my sayings and teach them to the young-
er children and read this letter to them, at
least, three or four times a year till I come
to you. Teach George to stand by Howard
as his counselor and right hand man. George
shall be distinguished and a great help to
Howard and to you all.
	Watch over Lucy for she is the choicest
emblem of peace, and you shall have the
honor of bringing her up to womanhood.
[Column 3]
	Howard and George:—be good boys, yea,
more than this, be manly and very kind to
your sisters. They have taken care of you
as another should do; they have counsel-
ed you, provided for your wants and taken
charfe of you in sickness and in health, and
you ought to love them and strive to please
them in all things. Be obedient to them in
my absence till you are grown up,then hon-
or and protect them till the day of your
death. Counsel with them in all difficult
matters. and never lift your hand against
them in anger or strife, and know that your
prosperity lies in your union. Strive to
get knowledge. Study well when you
have an opportunity.
	Spread your feelings freely before one an-
other and let your most secret plans and
designs to be entrusted to each other, but keep
them to yourselves and divulge them not
abroad. And whatever you all unite in,
will almost invariably be right.
	Let the boys not waste their strength in
wrestling or scuffling, although a little of
these exercises are good, but godliness will
profit them more.
	Go and hear preaching when you can and
talk about what you hear. If you go over
the mountains before I do, you will use
your best judgement in selecting a lot. Ad-
here to Brother Bullock and his wife for I
want them to go with you wherever you go,
or stay and never desert you wherever you go,
or stay and never desert you. You will not
have means, probably to assist any body but
Bro. Bullock, with what I send you
in money and clothes. Don't listen to any
false tales against Bro. Billock. He is good
and faithful.	*	*	*	*	*
	I should like to have the girls and also
Howard pay particular attention to Arithme-
tic. This is more important than Geography
or Grammer.
	You will need good oil cloth covers to
your wagons, and a good tent I think.
Have as many cows as your means will
permit; but if you should not go over the
mountains this spring, you will still need all
the means you can get.
	The prospect is very good for a great in-
gathering of converts in England, during
the coming season; but business just now is
worse than ever. Revolutions are going
forward in Europe, and Monarchs are tremb-
ling on their thrones. The people almost
universally demand a change of Govern-
ment and of rulers. The agitation is so very
great that business is kept very much in
suspense.
	My health at present is only tolerably
good. I am very thin in flesh in conse-
quence of many labors and cares. Since I
have been here, I have spared no pains
whatever to keep the work of God rolling
forth with success and power, and prosper-
ity has attended my labors thus far beyond
my utmost anticipations. I have had no
time for play or rest, but think when Elder
Orson Pratt comes that I shall have a little
respite. Your last letter was three months
and a half coming. Send your letters by
mail in the quickest conveyance. If you
do not go over the mountains write once a
month without fail. You will have enough
to write about; tell me about all little mat-
ters. Write the last thing and tell me par-
ticularly all about your outfit.	*	*	*
	It will be my constant desire to live in or-
der to do you good, and provide for your
wants. I want you all to be very good
children. I am very anxious to see you
once more but I will not disobey my lawful
counselors.
	George is now eight years old, if he has
nor been baptized yet I want to have him
baptized soon. Do the boys learn well at
school?


Almost every paper brings news of the
overthrow of some kingdom and the flight
of some king. Commerce and trade are
consequently at a stand. The people are
looking for general war. The Boston Steam-
er has not arrived consequently I must send
this letter without hearing anything from
you. In haste. God bless you my child-
ren. Farewell!
	Your Ever Affectionate Father,
				ORSON SPENCER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeeting of the Se-
nior and Junior Retrenchment Associations
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
July 17, 1875, was very largely attended,
President Mrs. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selors Mrs. P. Woodruff and Mrs. E. How-
ard, seemed inspired to speak to the sisters
upon the subject of obedience to coun-
sel, and to those in authority, and said it is
one of the saving principles: they also ex-
pressed their ideas upon the subject of ed-
ucation as regards the young, and the var-
iour influences in the midst of Zion that
have a tendency to draw them away from
the Gospel. They also sought to impress
upon the minds of all present, the great
need of seeking to lead the minds of the
young into the channel of truth; and let
their instructors be those who could while
imparting instruction from books &c., also
teach the principles of eternal life.
		PAYSON, U.T., July 6th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you herewith a copy of the Annu-
al Report of our Relief Society which you
are at liberty to publish if you see fit. Our
Society is in a very properous condition
and we are trying to do all the good we can.
	We have recently had a visit from Sisters
Snow, Howard, Horne, Smoot and Barney,
which has very much strengthendd and en-
couraged us, so much so that we feel like
laying hold with renewed energy and hope
to accomplish much that we have hitherto
deemed almost impossible for our feeble
powers. May God bless and prosper these
our dear sisters in their labors of love among
the people, and may their noble example of
self-sacrifice in the good cause, inspire our
sex to deeds of emulation, that the cause of
Zion may receive an impetus that will be
felt throughout all her borders.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel of
Peace.
			MARY ANN HARDY,
					Secy. R. Society.
	Annual report of the financial condition 
of the society June 23d, 1875.
	Remaining in Treasury from
		last year's report............... $ 84.09 1/2
	Donations since...................	    171.47 1/2
	Disbursements as follows:
	For the Temple....................	  $ 12.00
	Expended on City Lot...........	     54.57 1/2
	For the Poor........................	    153.12
	Remaining in Treasury.........	      35.98
	Property belonging to the society is val-
ued at $424.87.
			SARAH FAIRBANKS,
						Treasurer.
			NEPHI, July 13th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Feeling it a duty as well as a pleasure to
give you a short sketch of our prosperity, I
take this opportunity to say that we held
our Annual Meeting on the 26th of June.
[Column 2]
There was a general attendance of the sis-
ters. Our books show that we are progress-
ing slowly but surely. The faithful few
still try to keep the good spirit and to make
its influence felt in our meetings.
	On the 30th of June we had a visit from
Sisters Snow, Horne, Howard and Barney:
who gave us much good instruction in our
various duties as a Relief Society; I believe
all felt greatly benefitted and blessed by the
out-pouring of the Holy Spirit through their
teaching and counsel. And we feel to say,
may God grant them long life, to bless and
comfort our Relief Societies.
	We hope soon to be able to send subscrip-
tion money. Wishing you success in your
valuable paper, we subscribe ourselves your
sister in the gospel of peace,
			AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH, Prest.
	AMY  L. BIGLER, Sec.
			HARRISVILLE, July 1st, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the following report of an in-
teresting meeting, held according to ap-
pointment to set apart the proper officers
for the Relief Society here, which had
been neglected.
	President Franklin D. Richards and Bish-
op L. J. Herrick were present, also Presi-
dent Mrs. Jane Richards and Counselors,
and a goodly number of other sisters. Pres-
ident F. D. Richards in the opening re-
marks said it was good to go to meeting but
few realized the benefit of speaking them-
selves; exhorted the sisters to let the spirit
of God light up their minds, and forget
their cares toils and trials; told them they
had gifts, especially the gift of healing, that
they had the right to wash and anoint, and
it would be a shield to the sick, as well as a
power of healing. Bishop L. J. Herrick
said he was much pleased with the minutes
of our last meeting, and exhorted mothers
to teach their little children to pray, said it
would keep them from wandering after
worldly things; spoke of the remembrance
he had always cherished of his mothers
teachings and prayers; said we were all de-
pendent upon each other for happiness,
more especially husbands and wives; and
added his blessing.
	President Mrs. Jane Richards said she
knew the Lord had blest her and also her
sisters who were helping in this great work.
She always felt happy in hearing them
speak; those who attended meeting kept
young longer by having a good spirit and
cheerful face; said we should never tire of
doing good; when meeting day comes we
should go, if you had visitors invite them
to go too, that would be doing right, said
we were capable of doing great wrong as
well as right. To the young girls she said
you have grown up in innocence, without
the traditions to overcome the older ones
have had: use no unkind words, partake of
a happy spirit, the Holy spirit teaches right
from wrong; said when she was set apart to
preside she did not know her duty but had
to learn it by degrees. To the Teachers she
said go with a good spirit when you visit in
that capacity, and if any are on the back
ground, you can do them good by a few
cheerful words, and always remember to
pray for your president. President Mrs. J.
Richard's Counselors and Mrs. Frodsham
made some good remarks, then Mrs. Melis-
sa Shirtliff made a few appropriate ones off-
ering to resign the presidency she held.
	President F. D. Richards then called a
vote to see if we could sustain our present
organization, and it was sustained unani-
mously.
[Column 3]
	Mrs. Melissa Shirtliff President, Mrs.
Sarah Jane Taylor and Mrs. Nancy Ransom
Counselors, were then ordained by Presi-
dent F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J. Her-
rick. Meeting then adjourned with the
usual ceremonies.
		S. A. SHIRTLIFF, Secretary.
	Minutes of a Retrenchment meeting held
in the First Ward at the residence of Mrs.
Margaret Steele, June 9th, 1875. After the
usual exercises and reading of the minutes,
Miss Annie Brown read an essay on Obe-
dience. President Mrs. Sarah Graham then
rose and said, the essay on obedience was a
good one; and that she was pleased to meet
with the society again; thanked them for
their prayers in her behalf, in her sickness,
said she was much better in health than she
had been, although not yet wholly recov-
ered; exhorted them to be punctual in at-
tending their meetings, and not to speak
evil of any one and to improve every mo-
ment of their precious time. Counselor
Mrs. Jane Van Tassell spoke of her desire
to do right, her interest in the work now
commenced among the young people, testi-
fied to the truth of the Gospel and the in-
spiration of President Young as a Prophet
of God. Desired they might all obtain a
standing in the church and kingdom of
God. Mrs. Alice Fletcher said she thought
it the duty of every one to speak, and try
to perfect themselves, and that the Lord
would bless them and give them wisdom.
Mrs. Margaret Steele said she was pleased
to meet with so many of the young sisters,
her whole heart was in the work; she always
felt edified and strengthened in these meet-
ings. They were all of one great family, and
should speak kindly to each other; a kind
word in a time of trouble was worth a great
deal. They should always go to their Heav-
enly Father with their troubles,said she knew
if they were humble and rose up to speak,
the gifts and blessings of God would be
poured out upon them; she advised all the
young girls to attend the meetings in the
Fourteenth Ward. Miss Zina Higgs, Miss
Janet Hill, Miss Josephine Young, Mrs.
Amelia Smith, Miss Rosy Smith, Miss Lyd-
ia Johnston, Miss Annie Brown, Miss Beu-
lah Adams, Miss Lena Searl, and Miss
Amy Adams each made a few remarks; af-
ter which President Mrs. Sarah Graham
spoke of the wish of President Young in
regard to discarding round dances, and said
she wished them all to bear it in mind and
not dance them; it was her desire and that
of her Counselors: there were many unprin-
cipled men in their midst who sought to
lead astray and ruin the young ladies, and
they must be watchful and on their guard
continually, and not yield to temptation,
but attend to their duties, to Sunday School
and all their meetings; use all their influ-
ence to sustain "HOME INDUSTRIES," and
trade among their own people, to keep
money within their own Territory that they
might help to build up Zion, and to assist
in building Temples and then they would
have the privilege of receiving blessings in
them. Exhorted all to attend the meetings
in the tabernacle and if they wanted to
walk out on the Sabbath day, that was the
proper place to go. Said she wished the
young men of the Ward would get the
spirit of reformation the young girls had,
there would be less rowdyism among them.
She again entreated the young girls to use
their utmost influence to get their young
companions to attend meeting. Meeting
then adjourned for two weeks, after sing-
ing and prayer.
		AMY ADAMS, Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA [-]. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
line. $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1875.


A PLEA FOR THE LITTLE FOLKS. 

	To rear a family, either of boys or girls or
both, in honor and integrity, is to fulfill a holy
mission, to accomplish a noble life’s work.
And to ensure success in this enterprise, every
couple who engage therein should make of it a
speciality, whatever may be their other callings
and responsibilities.
	The varied duties of a parent are too numer-
ous, amplified and lofty to admit of elaboration
here. But of one wrong (or one course of ac-
tion which seems wrong to the writer) it may
not be amiss to offer a few suggestions.
	To beat a horse or dog, or other dumb ani-
mal, for any slight misbehavior, is considered
cruelty in the eyes of humane persons. Yet
children, little beings in the image of their
Creator, are ruthlessly subjected to such treat-
ment, often upon very small provocation.
	The question arises, do parents and guardians
realize the importance which should be at-
tached to such kind of government?
	For one man to strike another is a penal of- 
fense; and the man who would strike a woman
is justly deemed a “cowardly brute.” But to
strike a child is a thing of little consequence
Upon what consideration is it that the flesh of
a parent is held more sacred from acts of vio-
lence than that of the tender offspring? Why
should there be a period between the ages of
twelve months and from twelve to fifteen years
when, according to the notions of a civilized
world, physical force must be employed and
physical pain inflicted to ensure the progress of
human education? If to receive an intentional
blow is degrading and insulting to manhood or
womanhood, why is it less to either in embryo.
	No one who ever noticed the pitiful, broken-
hearted expression upon a child’s face when,
for the first time, it comprehends that it is
purposely hurt and tries to understand for
what, can doubt that its sensitive affections are
as acute as those of an adult. Why should
they not receive as kind consideration?
	It is generally understood among children,
that some get more whippings than others be-
cause they are not so good. But in many cases
it would be just and reasonable to reverse the
rule, and say that some are not so good as
others, because they are whipped more.
	Although the saying, “He who spares the
rod ruins the child,” is a proverb of a great and
wise king, it is one which admits of qualifica-
tion. Instances may occur wherein to punish
a child is really essential, almost unavoidable;
hut indeed, such cases should be very rare. And
where an opportunity to appeal to the moral
instincts, to incite a conscientiousness and love
of duty, instead of compelling sullen submis-
sion, is presented, it should never be neglected
or misinterpreted. Yet so common has become


the practice of whipping, or threatening to
whip, for every childish offense, that whether
the occasion is one which justifies such stern
reproof or not, is scarcely thought of.
	"All wise government begins with self-gov-
ernment." To deal with children always in a
wise and just manner would be a great thing.
A vast amount of forbearance and fortitude is
requisite, and too much thought and attention
cannot be exercised in the management of chil-
dren. To discern correctly and lean not to
either extreme is the grand point to be gained.
	There is, however, one sure rule which par-
ents may be safely at case in following: To
watch and imitate the course pursued by the
Eternal Father toward His children upon this
earth, will enable mortal parents to perform
every duty wisely toward their little ones.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
	WE HAVE received interesting communica-
tions in regard to the progress and improve-
ment of their Relief and Retrenchment Socie-
ties, from Cedar Fort, Spring City and Gunni-
son, which are unavoidably crowded out of this
issue, but will appear in our uext, August 15th;
also an essay on Obedience.
	A TWO days meeting at Provo commenced
Saturday, July 31st. Members of the First
Presidency and some of the quorum of the
Twelve in attendance. In all these meetings
which have been and are being held through-
out the different settlements, the Spirit of God
seems to be poured out upon the people in a
very powerful and forcible manner; and an
earnest work of reformation has apparently
commenced.
	ELDER C. G. Larsen arrived in this city, in
charge of the Scandinavian emigrants, Friday
morning, July 23rd. The company numbered
761 persons, and were in excellent condition;
but two deaths had occurred upon the road.
Elder C. G. Larsen is a resident of Spring City,
and has been for two years past President of
the Scandinavian mission. He was accompa-
nied by several other returning missionaries;
one Elder John Frantzen, also of Spring City,
who has been acting as accountant in the Scan-
dinavian Star Office.
	SATURDAY AND Sunday, July 17th and 18th,
a two days meeting was held at Farmington
Grove, the attendance being very large and
from all the settlements in the county. George
Q. Cannon, Wilford Woodruff and John Tay-
lor, of the quorum of the Twelve, and some
others from this city took part in the services.
After the meeting on Sunday was over, twen-
ty-seven of the leading elders of the county,
including the Bishops and their counselors,
were re-baptized by Elder George Q. Cannon
and confirmed under the hands of Elders John
Taylor and Wilford Woodruff.
	THIS CITY is fast becoming a favorite resort
for travelers, and very many distinguished peo-
ple have called at Salt Lake on their way across
the continent this season. Secretary Belknap
and party on their tour of inspection of milita-
ry posts, arrived here Monday the 20th; the
party consisted, besides Secretary Belknap, of
Generals W. C. Strong, R. B. Marcy and J. C.
Forsythe. Mr. McCormick, Delegate to Con-
gress from Arizona, with his wife and daughter,
visited this city recently. His wife is the
daughter of Senator Thurman of Ohio, who
has been prominently mentioned in connection
with the Democratic nomination for the next
President of the United States.
	THE ANNIVERSARY of the arrival of the pio-
neers to this Territory has been celebrated in
[Column 2]
many of the country places, as a joyful event.
From Brigham City there is a most pleasing
report of the occurrence; also from Fillmore
and Spanish Fork. Prosperity and success have
crowned the efforts of this people, until "the
desert literally blossoms as the rose," and
springs of living water gush forth from the
parched earth. Truly ought this people to lift
their hearts and voices in gratitude and praise
to Him who has heaped upon them the rich
blessings of earth and heaven.
	WE WOULD again call the attention of the
public to the opening of the Normal Institute,
Monday, August 2nd. The very best profes-
sional talent this city affords has been obtained
for the institution, and teachers will certainly
derive great advantages from attending. Supt.
Riggs and Prof. Park have spared no pains in
securing the services of those who have had
the most superior educational advantages and
practice. The school instruction is free, and
every facility has been offered for those who
wish to attend from the country. Teachers
should avail themselves of this most advanta-
geous opportunity for improvement in the
methods and practice of imparting instruction.
	GOVERNOR S. B. Axtell left this city Thurs-
day morning, July 22nd, for his new field of
labor in New Mexico. He was accompanied
to Ogden by a surprise party who met him at
the depot in this city for that purpose; a spe-
cial car was furnished by Superintendent Sharp.
After arriving in Ogden, the Governor made a
few remarks to his young friends, appreciative
of the compliment they paid him; referred
with much feeling, characteristic of his good-
ness of heart, to his administration in Utah,
said he had desired to be just to all, without
favoritism. He carries with him to his new
home the best wishes of this entire people, and 
will always retain a kindly place in their 
memories.
	UTAH WESTERN Railway Company run
daily trains, for passengers and freight, be-
tween Salt Lake City and Half-way House,
leaving Salt Lake City at 7 a. m., arriving at
Half-way House at 9.20 a. m.; leave there at
10 a. m., reach Salt Lake City at 12 noon. On
Wednesdays and Sundays a special train leaves
Salt Lake City at 1 p. m., and connects with
the Steamer, Gen. Garfield, upon which, plea-
sure seekers, pleasure parties, excursionists, or
those who, for health or recreation, desire a
little change of air or scene, can make a short
trip upon the Lake and return with the even-
ing train, arriving in the city at 8 p. m. Tick-
ets by either train, including steamboat fare,
$1.50. The regular morning train connects
with stages for Ophir, Stockton and Dry
Canon.
	A LADIES' ENTERPRIZE.—We have been re-
quested to call the attention of women, and
especially mothers, to the Ladies' Library and
Reading Rooms. This institution has been es-
tablished about three years, and has been an
efficient method of doing good in a quiet way.
It is supported by entertainments given by
ladies, such as concerts, lectures, etc., and is
free and open to all. The collection of books is
particularly well chosen, and strict attention
has been given to the selection of papers, maga-
zines periodicals and current literature, with
which the library is well supplied. For the
benefit of foreigners unable to read English, of
whom there are many in the city, there are
French, German and Scandinavian papers.
The ladies who conduct the library having
families themselves, have spared no pains in
furnishing it with books, magazines, papers,
etc., suitable for children and young people.
The library is located one block south of the


Theatre, on the west side of the street, and is
open every day from ten a. m. until four p. m.
It contains two rooms pleasantly furnished,
cool and quiet, where ladies may rest (even
when out upon errands, or marketing) and look
over the latest magazines and papers. ALL
ARE WELCOME.
	THE CHILDREN'S JUBILEE.—The celebration
of the anniversary of the arrival of the pio-
neers to this valley, on the 24th of July, 1847,
which took place in the New Tabernacle, Sat-
urday, July 24th, was a most interesting occa-
sion; the inspiring effect of the music, the
beauty of the decorations enhanced by the
original beauty of the thousands of beautiful
faces of children, lighted up with the joyous-
ness of "youth's merry spring time," together
with the connection the day bore to the time
they were celebrating, the marvellous contrast
between that time and this, heightened the en-
chantment of the scene, and must inevitably
have caused the coldest heart to swell with
gratitude to that God who had led this people
from the land of their persecutions. The inte-
rior of the Tabernacle was truly magnificent
in appearance; one of the most noticeable fea-
tures of the decoration, was the fountain of
pure water near the centre of the building,
which seemed to cool and refresh the vast as-
sembly; at each of the four corners was  lion,
and upon their backs were seated four children,
representing Europe, Asia, Africa and Ameri-
cr; Africa and America were represented by
genuine natives. An elegant, pictured banner,
with a beehive in the centre, surrounded
with flowers and vines, hung at the east end of
the gallery; flags, hanging baskets, trees, fes-
toons of evergreens ornamented and draped
the whole interior of the building. At the top
of the organ in front was a gilded statue of an
angel sounding a golden trumpet. Young la-
dies in white represented all the different states
and territories and many countries also, wear-
ing a badge inscribed with the name of the
country represented. The Goddess of Liberty
was personated by a very tall majestic looking
young lady with a fine figure and golden hair.
She held in her right hand the sword of justice
and gracefully waved it aloft when the Na-
tional Anthem was sung. Among other reci-
tations were two original poems, one by Miss
E. R. Snow, called "The Jubilee," and read by
Mrs. Armeda Young; the other was a Tribute
of Homage to the Pioneers of '47, by H. W.
Naisbitt, and read by G. J. Bywater. The ex-
ercises commenced at eleven a. m. precisely,
and closed about half past one.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARY.
	Enshrined with sweet, sad, tender thought,
		The dear departed lingers still
	In memory, and there is nought
		Her absent <vacant> place can ever fill.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of a beloved friend, Mrs. Emeline F.
Young, wife of President Brigham Young.
This estimable lady departed this life after
a lingering and painful illness (having
been for many years previous an invalid) Sat-
urday morning, July 17th, 1875. She was the
mother of ten children, all now living, except
one. To them, and to all her relatives and
friends, to whom she was more than ordinarily
endeared by many attractive graces, and beau-
ties of character and mind, we extend our
heartfelt sympathies; and more especially to
the younger children, whose tender years still
require the ever ready and watchful care and
solicitude of a mother. May the good an-
gels watch over them every hour, and preserve
them in purity, and may the memory of their
[Column 2]
mother be ever fresh in their youthful hearts,
and her wise and judicious counsels never for-
gotten. During her illness, she repeatedly ex-
horted her children to listen to the instruction
and counsel of their father, and never, under
any circumstance or upon any consideration,
disobey him. She also strictly enjoined upon
them all, never to speak against the principle
of CELESTIAL MARRIAGE, which she had
obeyed in her youth, for she knew it to be of
God; and bore a solemn testimony to them of
its purity and truth.
	Deceased was born at Fayettesville, St. Clair
Co., Illinois, April 28th, 1826. Her parents
embraced the Gospel when she was a little
child, and she was reared in an atmosphere of
Gospel light. She was baptized at an early
age, and with her parents emigrated to Far
West, Missouri, when the Saints gathered to
that place, and shared in the persecutions which
were heaped upon the Saints at that time; her
parents were driven out without shelter, com-
pelled to abandon their home, and leave the
state. They crossed the river and settled in
Belleville, Illinois, from which place they went
to Nauvoo in the general gathering of the
saints. There she became acquainted with the
then new revelation upon Celestial Marriage;
and at a time when a stigma was cast upon all
those who stepped forward to aid in bringing
forth this holy order of matrimony, when they
were condemned and esteemed as outcasts, even
among the Saints of latter-days, she was one to
lay all she held dear upon the altar of her faith,
and in the innocence of her heart, sacrifice all
worldly considerations, to secure to herself an
everlasting exaltation, in the same purity of
feeling and earnestness to do the will of God,
with which she went down into the waters of
baptism. She believed as other chaste and
virtuous women did, that it was ordained of
God, for the eventual restoration of true purity
and elevation of character. When the saints
were driven from Nauvoo in the dead of win-
ter, she, with those who then made their exit,
crossed the Mississippi river on the ice, to face
a barren wilderness at that inclement season of
the year. During the sojourn of the Saints at
Winter Quarters, in the absence of her hus-
band with the pioneers, her eldest child was
born. She came to this valley in 1848, and, in
common with others, endured the difficulties
incident to settlers in a new and uncultivated
country. In the year 1872 she visited her rela-
tives in the East, among whom were two elder
brothers. She often alluded to this visit during
her illness, with the most complete satisfaction.
She lived and died true to her religion and the
principles she had so sincerely espoused, and
her memory will live forever in the hearts of
those who loved her.			E. B. W.


SPLINTERS.

		GENERAL.

	There is yellow fever spreading at Key
West, Florida......The one hundredth anni-
versary of Gen. Washington assuming com-
mand of the Revolutionary army was cele-
brated in Cambridge, Mass. July 3rd......
Robert Dale Owen, the celebrated writer
and lecturer, is hopelessly insane through
spiritualism......Miss Ihling, niece of Prof.
Nise, the acronout, made an ascension in a
balloon from Philadelphia on the 16th of
July. The baloon burst 5,000 feet from the
ground; the lady was saved from being
dashed to pieces by the parachute arrange-
ment though she was badly injured......The
first celebration of Independence Day by
American Indians, took place July 5th, 1875
at Akota Indian Ter. 3,000 Indians present;
speeches were made by Gov. Allen, an ed-


ucated Choctah, and others........The ten
million dollars in the Treasury cash vault is
counted and tallies with Gen. Spinner's ac-
counts......At Rochester N. Y., the board of
education have by vote discarded religious
exercises in the public schools, including
the reading of the Bible......The Fourth of
July oration at Duluth Flat, Cal. was deliv-
ered by a lady......Ingleside, a summer re-
sort three miles from Holyoke, Mass., was
burned July 25th; loss $30,000, insurance
$20,000.
			FOREIGN.
	An English Medical Journal announces
that the hairs of the head number from 160,
000 to 20,000......Gen. Jovellas has captured
Cantavieja 2,000 strong......The draft for
the constitution of Spain has been finished
by the committee; it provides a Senate and
Chamber of Deputies, and guarantees indi-
vidual and religious liberty......The "Daily
News" from Lisbon reports a terrible
draught in several districts of the province
of Minho; crops and pastures are destroyed
and famine is inevitable;  insurrection
is also feared......Thirty cotton mills closed
at Oldham, July 26th, the operators refusing
the master's terms for wages......There is
a battle between the Turks and Heryegove-
nians. A severe engagement took place
near Nervisgua......A meeting was held in
London, July 16th, in which it was resolved
to open a subscription to erect a statue of
Lord Byron in some conspicuous part of
London......A meeting was held at Hyde
Park, on the 18th of July to protest against
the grant for the Prince of Wales to visit
India; there were twelve thousand persons
present.
			PERSONAL.
	The Emperor of Germany was recently
the guest of the Emperor of Austria......
Vice President Wilson is stopping at Con-
gress Hall, Saratoga......The Duke of Cam-
bridge threatens to resign command of the
British army......E. Lorett has been nomi-
nated for Governor by the Temperance Re-
form party in California......Joaquin Miller
has composed a poem on the National Cen-
tennial, at Newburyport Mass......Mr. Child-
ers, M. P. from England is visiting Ameri-
ca and intends remaining until October......
Santa Anna is still straight and slender his
black hair and eyes preserving their original
color and brilliancy, although he is 77 years
of age......Charles Kemble Mason, a veter-
an actor, died in Brooklyn Sunday, July 18th
......Hon. Peleg Sprague, of Boston, is the
oldest member of Congress now living, his
age is 83......Mr. Jones Minister to Belgi-
um, resigned on account of ill health.


For the EXPONENT.
			SLANDER.

	Slander, is one of the worst evils in the
world, and one of the most common. There
is scarcely any person who does not indulge
in it to some extent. It is a habit much
harder to get rid of than to form. A few
friends will meet and begin to talk, and
before they are aware of it, the conversa-
tion will lead them into slander, they will
talk of persons whose interests are of no
import to them. They do not mean harm
by it, but they make harm before they are
done with it. They tell some little story
they have heard and it is repeated, and by
the time it has passed to three or four per-
sons it is quite a story, (extraordinary) and
those whom it concerns hear it, and are very
much grieved; for perhaps there was no
foundation for it to start from in the first
place. Many good girls have been ruined,
by just such stories. They think;  "Well if


people think that of us, we don't care what
we do."  We ought to be careful what we
say about people, for there is nothing wounds
a sensitive heart as much as slander and
sneers.
	It would be a good idea for us of the
Retrenchment Society, to reform in this re-
spect.  If we were willing to be checked by
each other whenever we began to talk
about a person, if it is not something good,
we would be more careful about it.  If we
cannot say any good of a person, let us not say
any thing about them. We may think we
will have to stop talking altogether, but in
a short time we will find something more
interesting and far more instructive.  We
cannot truthfully deny that the most of our
conversation is of this nature nowadays.  It is
a sin which we must overcome, or suffer the
consequence.
	There is nothing so sacred to a girl, as her
character, and consider how easy it is to
ruin it.  Even if a person has "stumbled
in the path, we have in weakness trod,"
would it be right to cast her off entirely?
You know the Savior said, we must forgive
a person, seventy times seventy, even in a
day; if they were penitent and asked for-
giveness.  Let us extend the hand of char-
ity to others, and then if we err, (which we
are all liable to do,) others will show char-
ity towards us.
					E. M. MERREL.
	Smithfield, July 21st, 1875.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
		OUR MISSION.

	To be or not to be is not the question, for
we are.  But to be and not know the
wherefore of that being. To think there
must be a future, yet scarce can catch a
glimpse of what that mighty future will
unfold.
	How many of us are there that realize
who we are, from whence we came, and
what is our mission here?
	We come into this world; we grow to ma-
turity, then decline to old age and make
our exit from this stage of life, and to all
appearance, we are as if we had not been.
But is it so.  No; we are the children of a
Supreme Being, fashioned after His own
image, immortal souls, full of life and light.
We come as spirits from the eternal worlds
the dwelling place of the Gods.  To do
what?
	To become like those that sent us forth to
work out for ourselves a destiny.  To go high-
erand higher in the scale of intelligence, un-
til we reach our Father's presence. Shall
we then say we have no aim in life, let us
eat, drink and make merry for to-morrow
we die? Or shall we rise up in the strength
of our manhood, and work out for ourselves a
destiny that shall be worthy the approba-
tion of Him who called us into existence.
	Let onward be our motto, and let no day
pass but we can look back to with pleasure and
feel that we have done some good. Some
may say, what can I do? I have no money
to give to the poor, no time to visit the sick,
it is work, work, nothing but work.
	There is something even for them to do.
There is the kind word of comfort to the
husband, or wife; the smile of approval to
the child, the cheery good morrow to the
neighbor, and the thousand and one ways
in which the poor can do as much good, and
realize as much happiness as the rich.
	Time well employed is the poor man's
weath; and how much of that wealth is
squandered in idle talk, and foolish jests, in
back biting neighbors, and in doing any


thing but working out that great problem,
OUR DESTINY.
				      M. E. TULLEDGE.
	Little Kanab.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	STORY, the sculptor, has completed the
colossal statue of Liberty, which is to be
erected in Philadelphia. The statue rep-
resenting the goddess in repose, her stand-
ard unfurled in her grasp and resting upon
her shield, will be twenty feet in height,
and surrounded with forty-eight female
figures representing all the States and Ter-
ritories.
	GENEVA, in Switzerland was visited on
the 7th of July by one of the most destruc-
tive storms that has ever been known. It
commenced to rain slowly about eight
o'clock in the evening, and the lightning
was almost incessant, gradually increasing in
intensity, until the whole atmosphere seem-
ed in flames. At midnight the storm
raged with such fury that in ten minutes
the city was wrecked; the storm came in
the form of a compact mass of ice, driven
furiously before the blast of the tempest.
In a moment it extinguished all the gas
lights in the streets, save here and there
one protected by some roof or projection;
but the city was more brightly illuminated
with the lightning, giving it an unearthly
appearance.  In the suburbs of the city, houses
in many places were pierced by holes such
as musket balls would be likely to make, and
tiles were actually beaten to powder. The
pleasure farms, vineyards, gardens etc.,
have much the appearance of having been
destroyed by a charge of cavalry.  By this
fearful and terrible accident, not only is a
beautiful and flourishing city laid in ruins,
but hundreds of industrious people, re-
duced to want and beggary.
	THE NEW and beautiful poem of Long-
fellow's written as a tribute of respect to
Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me., on the oc-
casion of a reunion of the class of 1825,
which was commemorated July 6th, 1975,
is certainly one of the most touching, pa-
thetic and expressive pieces ever penned
by mortal.  It is the idea of an inspiration
of pure and noble thoughts, characteristic
of the personality of one whose mind is
capable of the highest and holiest aspira-
tions manhood can comprehend, and one
whose heart is genuine in true reverence
for God and humanity. The occasion was
one to call forth the profoundest depths of
feeling in the hearts of the participators.
There were present eleven of the class of
"fifty years ago," one tutor, Professor Pack-
card, who was engaged there at that time.
Some of this class had never met since and
were unable to recognize each other with-
out an introduction. The ceremonies con-
sisted of prayer by J. S. C. Abbot, one of
the memorial class, then followed the read-
ing of Mr. Longfellow's poem by himself,
which was very warmly applauded, and a
vote of thanks also rendered him, the mo-
tion being made by Hon, J. W. Bradbury.
An Oration by the Rev. Dr. Cheever, on
Science and Religion was then delivered; a
vote of thanks by the Alumni was also ren-
dered him. The poem spoken of here, has
been published in the New York Herald,
July 8th, and in Harper's Magazine for
August.  The friends of Bowdoin College,
are at present seeking to raise $10,000 to
establish a Longfellow's Professorship, in
honor of America's great poet.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are fifty-seven women who are at
present editing newspapers in the United
States.
	THE official statement of the United
States life-saving stations, since November
1, shows the number of wrecks to have
been 59; number of lives imperiled, 852;
number of lives saved, 847; lives lost 15;
number of shipwrecked persons sheltered
and succored at the stations, 179; total val-
ue of property imperiled, $2,374,400; value
of property saved $1,618,635; amount lost,
$775,765; of the lives lost 14 were by the
wreck of the Italian bark Giovanni, off
Cape Cod.
	A WASHINGTON dispatch to the Chicago
Tribune says that the custom receipts have
steadily increased during the past two years.
The year ending June 20, 1873 the receipts
were $118,500,000. The following year
they fell off $25,000,000, and the total re-
ceipts this year show a still further falling
off of $7,000,000. The cause of this is ex-
plained partially by the Commissioners of
Customs upon the ground of the dull state
of business throughout the country. There
is also a growing system of smuggling that
offers great difficulties to the collection of
custom. One of the easiest and most se-
cure means of smuggling is by mail. Val-
uable laces are thus smuggled with impu-
nity. There will be in the next Congress a
proposal to make postmasters ex-officio cus-
tom officers, authorizing them to open sus-
picious letters and packages, but this propo-
sition, if carried, would give such opportu-
nity to tamper with the mail as to be un-
likely to be received with favor.


The following paragraph is from the N.
Y. Sun, in an article entitled "Woman's
Idols." "They do not worship their idols
for what they are in themselves, but for
what they represent.  The clergyman stands
in the pulpit precisely as the actor does on
the stage, personating an ideal character
and surrounded by accessories which heigh-
ten the effect of his performance.  It is not
surprising that the unsatisfied yearnings of
his flock should fix upon him as the support
and stay which they have sought in vain
elsewhere, any more than that the hand-
some actor, decorated not only with the
trappings of the outer man, but shining
with the wit and accomplishments which
the play might lend him for the moment,
would seem the long-waited for-hero of the
woman of the world. Both profit, in a
large degree, by a fact which every  man
profits by more or less, and whoever is
jealous of their success, should take a lesson
from this example.  Lovers and husbands
need only to be what clergyman and actors
seem, in order to win the same admiration,
and enjoy the same devoted attachment."
	These thoughts are from a man's stand-
point, and I suppose, as we have not the
gift which Burns craved, "to see ourselves
as others see us",(and perhaps he is as truth-
ful as the generality) it may be desirable to
be well posted in regard to the opinion of
the other sex; and if we are not, it will not
be their fault for they are eternally discuss-
ing us, in their newspapers, journals, easy
chairs, chit-chats, etc.  It would be impos-
sible to suit all sorts of philosophers, so let
us be determined to act for ourselves; be
strongminded, self-reliant, earnest, honest
and natural, and true to our best and high-
est intuitions; these are what we want,
these are what we are aiming for, and we
only desire from them, opportunity, liberty
and encouragement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	LOVERS do the cooing before marriage,
and tradesmen do the billing after it.
	As the young lady remarked about the
infant, "How sweet, but how bald for one
so young!"
	AN English editor calls a certain kind of
American Religion "pewism."
	PARSLEY is said to have first come from
Egypt, and mythology tells us it was used
to adorn the head of Hercules.
	WHAT is the difference between a fool
and a looking glass? The fool speaks with-
out reflecting and the looking glass reflects
without speaking.
	WHY should I be the happiest of all the
vowels? Because it is in the center of
bliss; while e is in hell and all the others
are in purgatory. 
	"THE hardest trial of my life," said good
old Deacon Banes, "was to shed tears at the
news that my wife's uncle had died and left
her sixty thousand dollars."
	WHAT is the difference between sperma-
ceti and a school-boy's howl?—One is the
wax produced by the whale, and the other
is the wail produced by the whacks.
	"WELL, I always make it a rule to tell my
wife everything that happens." "Oh my
dear fellow, that's nothing!" replied his
friend. I tell my wife lots of things that
never happen at all."
	AN American recently traveling in Lon-
don was accosted by the vender of a matri-
monial journal. "Come, sir," cried the
man, running through his list of eligible
partners, "I am sure you want to marry;
take a paper." "No, no," said the Ameri-
can; "I don't want any of your respectable
widows." "Well, sir, hif you won't 'ave a
respectable widder, take a hill-used hor-
phon."
	SAYS a Milwaukee paper: "Now, when
the soft afternoons come, adolescent couples
wander to some shady nook, and, seated on
a grassy knoll, gaze with speechless rapture
upon the greeness in each other's eyes, and
sit, and gaze, and sigh, until the evening
shadows fall; when, slowly home returning,
she tells her parents, with voice subdued
and reverent bearing, that she has been out
to the quiet abode of the dead, reading the
inscriptions on the tombstones."


﻿FLOWERS.

	DUTIES are ours, events are God's.
	A FAULT confessed is half redressed.
	THE little stream when it enters the sea
proclaims its arrival.  The river forms the
junction in silence.
	IT is only the busy and the over-burden-
ed upon whom you can throw any extra
work with some chance of its being welcom-
ed.
	WHO is wise? He that is teachable.
Who is mighty? He that conquers him-
self.  Who is rich? He that is contented.
Who is honored? He that honoreth others.
	THE web of our life is of a mingled yarn,
good and ill together; our virtues would be
proud, if our faults whipped them not; and 
our crimes would despair, if they were not
cherished by our virtues.
	THE first step toward greatness is to be
honest, says the proverb; but the proverb
fails to state the case strong enough. Hon-


esty is not only the first step toward great-
ness; it is greatness itself.—Bovec.
	EVERY man is the builder of a temple,
called his body, to the God he worships, af-
ter a style purely his own, nor can he get
off by hammering marble instead. We are
all sculptors and painters, and our mate-
terial is our own flesh and blood and bones.
Any nobleness begins at once to refine a
man's features, any meanness or sensuality
to imbrute them.
	SOMEBODY says that flowers are the "fu-
gitive poetry of nature;" and to wild flow-
ers most eminently belongs the remark.
Our cultivated flowers cannot be called "fu-
gitive poetry;" we do not find them scatter-
ed along the roadsides, smiling to the
brooks, nodding on hills to every breeze.
Not they!  They are collected and placed
in our houses and conservatories, labeled
and surrounded by the costly accessories
which belong to all volumes of collected
poetry.  But with wild flowers it is differ-
ent. We come upon them indeed, as upon
scraps of poetry tucked into the corner of
some newspaper of everyday life, and in
the one case, as in the other, exclaim in a
patronizing surprise, "Why, how pretty
that is!"


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomato Omelette.—Peel and chop five medium
sized tomatoes, season with salt, pepper and
chopped parsley; add half a cup of grated bread;
beat four eggs to a foam, stir them into the toma-
to; heat a spider hissing hot, place a piece of but-
ter therein, turn in the mixture, let it brown for
two minutes, and lap over the half, serving it in a
turnover form on a hot plate.
	Candied Honey.—The candying of honey is due
to a part of the sugar becoming crystalized.  The
honey is just as good and as pure as ever, but not
quite so pleasant to eat on account of the small
grains of sugar.  There is no way known to pre-
vent this, and the best honey, that made from clo-
ver early in the season, is more apt to be candied
at the present time than the later made.  By plac-
ing the bottle or jar containing the honey in a ves-
sel of water, with sticks under it to keep it from
direct contact with the bottom of the vessel, and
gradually heating it, the sugar will be dissolved
and the honey become clear, and last in that condi-
tion a greater or less time, according to the tem-
perature at which it is kept.  If it should become
candied again the heating may be repated.—Ex.
	African.—One cup of sugar, three eggs beaten
with the sugar, one and a half cups of flour with
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half tea-
spoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of
milk; bake in jelly cake tins, (or in a loaf which may
be cut open,) and put between the layers the fol-
lowing cream:—two and a half cups of milk scald-
ed, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn
starch, and one egg; let it boil until thick then
add a small piece of butter and flavor with vanilla.
For the top, make a paste of chocolate and sugar.
Grate four or five tablespoonfulls of chocolate, add
as much sugar, and wet with boiling water suffi-
cient to make a thick paste; pour this over the top
of the cake while the paste is hot.  To enjoy it in
perfection, sip with it, instead of wine, the kin-
dred liquor, Creme de Cacao, Chova a la Vanilla.
—Ex.
	Quince Marmalade.—Peel the quinces, quarter
them, remove the cores and pipes.  The quarters
should be thrown in a pan of cold spring water as
they are cut, to preserve the color. The quinces
should then be put in a covered jar, with one quart
of water to four pounds of fruit, and stewed in a
slow oven for several hours till they are quite ten-
der and of a bright red color.  When they are
thus prepared for marmalade, weigh them, and to
every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a


pound of crushed loaf sugar. Put the fruit into a
preserving-pan, and bring it gently to a boil, stir-
ring frequently all the time. Continue boiling till
the whole is quite soft and a smooth pulp, then
add the sugar, and again bring the fruit to a boil.
Continue boiling gently for twenty or twenty-five
minutes. Take the pan from the fire, and paste
down the marmalade in jars while hot, with dou-
ble papers, care being taken to have the paste
quite boiling, and to strain the papers tightly over
the jar.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	This is the proper season of the year for gather-
ing almost all varieties of herbs for medicines, and
if special attention was given to the herbs, roots
and leaves that abound in such profusion, less
medicine would be required; most herbs are now
in flower, showing they have arrived to perfection.
The raspberry leaf, which is one of the most es-
sential of home productions for many medicinal
uses, should be gathered at this particular season.
	Salt Water for the Eyes.—Many persons are
suffering pain from weakness of the eyes. This,
sometimes, proceeds from local inflammation,
sometimes from other causes. Several persons
who have thus been afflicted inform us that they
have derived almost immediate, and in some cases,
permanent relief from the application of salt wa-
ter as a bath; and when the pain has been aggra-
vated, from a compress saturated with salt water
laid on the eyes, and renewed at frequent inter-
vals. Opening the eyes and submerging them in
clean salt water has been found beneficial to those
whose eyesight begins to fail.
	Fruit as Food.—Much is now being said and
written in regard to fruit being nutritious and 
wholesome, useful for digestion on account of its
acid nature: acid from the apple, grape. orange
and lemon are equally good in this respect, accord-
ing to the best authorities on the subject of health.
As a substitute for the better fruit acids, the rhu-
barb or pie-plant may be cultivated. "This acid
is certainly a fine one of its kind." Gooseberries
are very similar in nature, and both are worthy of
being on the family list. Tomatoes also should be
prized for their wholesomeness and healthful pro-
perties. We do not, perhaps, sufficiently prize
those things which are classed as "common" and
of "no account."
	The London "Lancet" prints a warning against
the habitual use of the now fashionable hyponetic
chloral. This writer says: "Because it does not
produce the immediate evil consequences opium
does, and is a far more powerful sedative than
bromide of potassium, it has become popular and
even largely recommended by medical men; and is
also often used without advice or precaution."
He adds that in some cases it has produced death,
and in others brought into play diseases which
have proved fatal. "Still," he says, "where no
such serious results have ensued, it is surely an
injury to the nervous system." The writer ex-
plains that, in sleep, the sensory recipient and
lower motor centres are separated from those of
consciousness and will, with which, in a waking
state, they are in close connection. This separa-
tion only takes place under certain conditions,
which very much in different individuals. Chloral
introduces an artiffcial influence which separates
these forcibly, and paralyzes the will. Subse-
quently the will becomes weakened, the senses per-
verted, and action is no longer under the same
control. Ultimately, still graver consequences may
and do follow. Delirium imbecility and paralysis
of the pharynx and asophagus, are among the
symptoms of recorded cases. All the time the
craving for it increases,  and becomes as intense
and intolerable as for opium. Neuralgia and other
nervous affections will be more frequent, and va-
rious paretic phenomena which depend chiefly on
a defective will.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXHORTATION.

Keep your lamps well trimmed and burning,
	For the time is drawing near,
We know not the day or hour,
	When the Savior will appear.

But we know that He is coming;
	For His promises are sure 
Though heaven and earth shall pass away,
	Yet His word will still endure.

Then keep your lamps well trimmed and burning,
	And be ready for the day,
When we'll meet our glorious Savior,
	With His saints in bright array.

And receive the crowns and blessings,
	He has promised to the just,
Let us all press boldly onward
	Faithful to our Father’s trust.

				SARAH J. AUSTIN.
Cedar Valley, July 20th, 1875.


R. S. REPORT.

		CEDAR VALLEY, CEDAR FORT,
		June 27th, 1875.
BELOVED SISTER E. R. SNOW:
	By request of President Sophronia Cook
we send you these lines wishing to show
our appreciation of your kind visit, and
thinking you would like to hear the good
tidings that your efforts in behalf of our
Relief Society and Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association have been greatly blest.
The sisters all seem anxious to press for-
ward and do all in their power to assist in
rolling on the work, our meetings are well
attended and a good spirit prevails.
					MELINDA COOK.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	GRACE Greenwood has gone to Europe.
	MRS. Chanfrau has leased the "Varieties"
theatre for the coming season, and will as-
sume its management.
	MISS Tillie Forney, youngest daughter of
Col. Forney, is writing letters from abroad
that are highly complimented.
	MINNIE Myrtle Miller is now residing at
Port Oxford with her mother and children.
Joaquin, her quandom husband, has re-
turned from Europe, and is at present in
Boston. He will possibly visit the Pacific
Coast at no distant day.—[Northwast, Port-
land, Oregon.
	CONTRADICTORY reports in regard to
Miss Anna Dickinson adopting the life of
an actress reach us repeatedly; the Woman's
Journal says decidedly that she will make
her debut upon the stage in San Francisco.
California papers declare she will continue
lecturing, which are we to believe?
	DR. Nancie Monelle, who recently sailed
from New York, has settled in Hyderabad,
and rapidly acquired an extensive practice.
She has opened a dispensary in one of the
bazars, and it is now so crowded that she is
about to remove to a much larger house.
Among her patients are many native ladies
who come from great distances to avail
themselves of her skill.—Ex.
	MISS Jean Ingelow, one of the sweet poets
of modern times is a native of Boston, Eng-
land, and passed her early life amidst
its quiet surroundings in the usual home
avocations of the English girl. She is now
about forty-five years of age and lives with
her widowed mother in a quiet and retired
part of London, whereas she has said "all the
houses are with window boxes full of flow-
ers."
	MRS. Myra Bradwell, of the Chicago Le-

[Column 2]
gal News, procured copies of the laws
passed at the late session of the Illinois
Legislature, and had them published in
book form in less than two weeks after the
adjournment of the session. This is a work
that has generally taken the State nearly
two years to perform. Mrs. Bradwell's
edition of the laws is furnished with head-
ings and annotations, and the work is very
creditable to this talented and energetic
woman.
	LADY Jane Franklin the enthusiastically
devoted widow of the Arctic explorer, died
in London July 18th, she has left nothing
untried within her reach and means, to find
and bring back the remains of her lost hus-
band, and show to the world the work done
by his expedition. She equipped and fitted
out the Pandora which recently left Ports-
mouth in this intricate search, and at the
time this new voyage of discovery was en-
tered upon, she was lying upon her death-
bed. Such examples of devotion are rare
indeed.
	WOMEN are coming more and more to
the front. In this season of commence-
ments we find one college after another
wheels into line. Among them is Wilson
College, at Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
Eleven young ladies graduated, five taking
the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and the re-
mainder that of Bachelor of Science. The
motto of the class, "Eis ta anothen" ("To
the things above"), was arched in  green
over the rostrum of the hall where the di-
plomas were given.—Ex.
	MRS. Annie Besant, of London, England,
is making a great reputation as a radical
writer and speaker. She is said to have the
highest culture, and is acquainted not only
with the various European languages, but
with the bearings of their literature upon the
subjects in which she is particularly inter-
ested. She is beautiful, being less than
thirty years of age, and with the soft, clear
eyes, rich brown hair, delicate oval face, and
refined features, which make the best type
of English beauty. She is rather under the
average size, and  dresses with good taste
which can only be ascribed to the influence
of education in Paris, acting upon a mind
naturally endowed with a fine artistic sense.
She stands on the platform habited in  
rich, black silk skirt and black velvet basque,
with a white lace ruffle around the neck.
There is no gesticulation, and yet a slight
bending forward of the form, or an uncon-
scious movement of the shapely head, or of
the mouth, the flashing of the sparkling eye,
as the telling arrow of logic or wit speeds
from the arch lips, do more effective
work than all those gestures which are the
mere accompaniments of mere declamation.
Although she is in sympathy with the move-
ment for the enfranchisement of her sex,
her main work is that of a religious free-
thinker and republican reformer.—Ex.


POPPING THE QUESTION.

	In olden times it was the fashion for a
suitor to go down on his knees to a lady
when he asked her to become his wife,
which, with very stout gentlemen was an
uncomfortable proceeding. The way in
which Daniel Webster proposed to Miss
Fletcher was more modern, being at the
same time neat and poetic.
	Like many other lovers he was caught
holding a skein of thread or wool which the
lady had been unraveling. "Gracie," said
he, "we have been untying knots. Let us
see if we cannot tie  one that will not untie
in a lifetime." With a piece of tape he


fashioned half a true lover's knot. Miss
Fletcher perfected it, and a kiss put the
seal to the symbolical bargain. Most men
when they "pop" by writing, are more
straight forward and matter-of-fact. Rich-
ard Steele wrote to the lady of his heart:
"Dear Mrs. Shurlock (there were no Misses
in those days,) I am tired of calling you by
that name; therefore say the day when you
will take that of madame. Your devoted
humble servant Richard Steele." She
fixed the day accordingly, and steeled her
name instead of her heart to the suitor.
					FLORAL CABINET.


﻿CLUB BATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	 $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.
			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
					AND
			GENERAL DRY GOODS.
	Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN.
				FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		FEATHERS, WALL PAPER,
				AND
			BABY CARRIAGES!
	75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4.  		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1875. 		NO. 6.


﻿DEDICATED TO A FRIEND.

The very heavens beamed radiant with smiles,
	On that auspicious and eventful day,
When angels bore thee, free from sin and guile,
	To share with mortals life's uncertain way;
Plucked fresh from an immortal paradise,
	Transplanted in a new and uncongenial clime,
To fulfill laws, which Nature's works comprise;
	A purpose to achieve, co-incident with time.

Thou didst consent within thy Father's Royal Court,
	To take upon thyself this mortal form we wear,
And in His image here, through good or ill report
	Having kept thy first estate, fit and prepare,
For thy return unto the loved ones there,
	Who blessed, in mighty power, thy going forth,
Pronounced thee worthy eternal life to share,
	If thou with honor, fill thy mission on the earth.

The Fates, propitious at thy birth, gave thee a noble mind
	A soul of generous impulse, in itself innately pure;
A quick perception, a character refined,
	Firm in integrity and purpose to endure.
These qualities with knowledge will fill the measure
	Which thy Creator has ordained for thee,
Not left to rust as undeveloped treasures,
	But giv'n in trust to be redeemed by usury.

She who endowed with rarest gifts and powers,
	Bore thee in pain, and moulded first thy infant mind,
Transmitted unto thee a mother's priceless dower:
	Of truest sympathy and innocence combined,
And in maturer years fullest and best
	Of blessings given thee upon the earth,
Bestowed in fulness with divine behest,
	The Holy Priesthood Josoph Smith brought forth.
										EMILE.
	March 21st, 1874


For the EXPONENT.
		KIND WORDS.

	How many bitter tears have been shed,
how many hours of sadness have been
passed because of an unkind word, and
sometimes even a look; and at the same
time that word or look injures the giver
even more than it does the one who receives
it.  And again, how many hours of pleas-
ure we sometimes spend in thinking over a
kind and pleasant word.  And how many
sinking hearts have been made to hope
again by a gentle act or a few kind and lov-
ing words.  And it is just as easy to say kind
words as it is to sayunkind ones.
	The EXPONENT says kind words are the
bright flowers of earthly existence; they
are jewels beyond price.  Then let us school
ourselves to always use them. A kind
word is sometimes looked back upon with a
pleasant remembrance for a life time.
	We all know how much easier it is to as-
sociate a mean act with one who always
speaks crossly and unkindly, than it is to
believe evil of one who is always associated
in our minds with pleasant looks and kind
words.  And how much better we enjoy
ourselves in the company of one who al-
ways speaks pleasantly and kindly, than we
do in the company of one who always looks
cross and speaks snappishly and sneeringly.
	There is an old proverb which says, "a
happy heart makes a smiling visage;" but
how can we expect to gain a happy heart
except in contributing to the happiness of
others; for true happiness can never be
gained by merely gratifying our own selfish
desires; and how can we expect to bestow
happiness if we do not speak kindly.
	But we cannot expect always to look hap-
py, for sometimes our hearts are heavy with
sorrow, and then none may know except
those who have had the experience, how


much comfort and consolation a few kind
and gentle words can give.  Then, my sis-
ters, let us be as kind and affectionate to
one another as possible, for we do not know
how soon sorrow and trouble may come upon
us, and then is the time that we will need
true friends, and those who prove them-
selves our friends then are true indeed
for they are "friends in need."
	But there is one FRIEND who will never
prove false or unkind to us if we will obey
His commands and do His will.  And that
we each may strive so to do, that we may be
saved in His kingdom with the honor and 
glory  thereof, is the prayer of
		Your Sister and Friend,
				ALICE M. B. FLETCHER.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
		TIME IS PRECIOUS.

	Take care of the minutes, and the hours
will take care of themselves.  We should
endeavor to make the best use of our time:
Friends often meet, and spend an evening
or a few hours in social visit and then leave
without feeling in the least degree benefit-
ed.  Perchance we meet a friend whose
mind is stored with useful knowledge, a
few moments spent in conversation with
such a person refreshes the spirit, and gives
more satisfaction than days spent in idle
gossip so common in society.  How neces-
sary it is to improve the present moment;
in looking forward to future life recollect
we are not to encounter all its crosses at
once, every moment bears its own little
burden then flies, and is succeeded by an-
other, if one can be borne so can another,
the present moment is all we have to 
do with, the future is uncertain.  Re-
solve then, to do right. The common error
is to resolve to-morrow or next week, but
now this once we must go on the same as
ever; it is easy for the most ill-tempered to
resolve the next time they are provoked
they will will not let their metder overcome
them; but the victory would be to make the
effort at the present moment.  There is a 
transcendent power in example, we reform
others unconsciously when we walk upright-
ly.  A reform should take place, it is better
to strive and fail, than not to have a will to
strive at all.  There is no end to intelligence
that might be gained by study, by reading,
and by reflecting. This world is full of
pleasant and beautiful things; learn to
prize those priceless gems of intelligence.
Character is the eternal temple that each
one begins to rear; cultivate highly the raw
material furnished by the hearts own foun-
tain; nature in all her laws is just, then
cultivate into existence the best attributes
that God has sown in the earth of our na-
tures, which gives us independence, and not
reject the truthful monitor, the Holy Spirit;
and through obedience to every law which
God reveals, men become kings and priests,
and women queens and priestess. Study
self-improvement no matter how old we are
we can improve.  If we wish to become
noble women we must make ourselves such
by our own merits.  Sisters awake. be up and
doing, strive to live the life of saints and
the victory will be ours.
						M. J. C.
Bountiful Aug. 6th, 1875.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MR. GLADSTONE, ex. Premier of England
will publish his three essays, "The Vatican,"
"Vaticanism," and the "Pope's Speeches"
in one volume, entitled "Rome and the
Newest Fashions in Religion."
	A FEW DAYS ago, in London, a testimo-
nial was made to Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall,
who have been known to two generations of
English readers as contributers to literature.
The Earl of Shaftesbury, speaking for them,
referred to their writing as healthy and
sound in principle.  The testimonial begun
at the time of their golden wedding last
year, it consisted of a fund of fifteen hun-
dred pounds sterling, for their benefit, made
up by six hundred men and women in Eng-
land and America.
	ANDREW JOHNSON, seventeenth Presi-
dent of the United States, and the only ex-
President, died at the residence of his
daughter in Tennessee, July 31st, from an
apoplectic stroke.  He was a self-educated
man; married early in life, and was elected
to office when very young.  Alderman at 22
a member of Congress at 26, afterwards
Governor of Tennesee, then United States
Senator from that State.  In 1865 he was
elected Vice-President with Abraham Lin-
coln as President, and after the assassina-
tion of Lincoln, filled the highest position of
honor and trust in this country.
	MR. WADE, the British minister at Pekin,
gives the following testimony in regard to
the use of opium: "It is, to me, in vain to
think otherwise of the use of the drug in
China, than as of a habit many times more
pernicious, nationally speaking, than the
gin and whiskey drinking which we deplore
at home.  It takes possession more insidu-
ously, and keeps its hold to the full as tena-
ciously. I know no case of radical cure.  It
has insured, in every case within my know-
ledge, the steady descent, moral and physi-
cal, of the smoker; and it is so far a greater
mischief than drink that it does not, by ex-
ternal evidence of its effect, expose its vic-
tim to the loss of repute, which is the penal-
ty of habitual drunkenness.  Recently there
has been some considerable feeling in Eng-
land expressed against the opium trade, as
carried on now between British India and
China.


KNOW THYSELF—One bowing to me I'd
seen long ago, said I, Who art? he said, I
do not know; I said, I know thee, I, said
he, know you; but he who knows himself,
I never knew.


GEORGE Cury Egglestron argues that it
does not pay, as a business, to marry a rich
wife. His observation leads him to believe
that the expense of maintaining such a wife
is usually greater than the income which
her property can be made to yield.


JOSH Billings says: "If you are going to
give a man anything, give it to him cheer-
fully and quick, don't make him get down
on his knees in front of you and listen to
the ten commandments and then give him
five cents."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-op-
erative Retrenchment Association in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, July
31st, 1875, was presided over by Mrs. Mer-
cy R. Thompson, in the absence of the
President, Mrs. M. I. Horne, and her Coun-
selors. After the usual exercises and read-
ing of minutes from the different Wards,
Mrs. Mercy Thompson addressed the meet-
ing, expressing herself particularly grati-
fied with the Secretaries' reports from the
different Societies; said she knew the Lord
had blessed the efforts of those who had
tried to improve, and would continue to do
so, until they should become bright and
shining lights. Said that if she had been
aware that she was to talk she would have
chosen the subject of "Implicit Obedience;"
she then invited those who were present to
express their feelings, and referred to Mrs.
H. C. Young. Mrs. Jane F. Kinney of the
society of Friends requested permission to
speak; she was delighted with the minutes
of the young ladies' meetings, encouraged
them to go forward in their work; said she
traveled from East to West and North to
South, and met with all denominations.
She spoke feelingly of God and His good-
ness, and advised all to go to him for wis-
dom and when they were in trouble. Mrs.
Harriet C. Young, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze and
Mrs. E. S. Barney each spoke earnestly and
interestingly of the work of reformation and
the importance attached to the duties of
the religion professed by the Saints of lat-
ter days. Mrs. Young, in her remarks, al-
luded to idolatry as creeping in among this
people; referred to the world as devoted to
self, and that a similar spirit seemed mani-
fest here, said it was a source of regret.
Mrs. Barney, in her remarks, spoke of the
Home Industries, which were at present
progressing steadily.

	WILLARD CITY, Aug. 4th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our president I send you
the following items with regard to our wel-
fare in this place. The sisters with but few
exceptions, both old and young, are mem-
bers of the Relief Society; we meet once
in two weeks. The sisters express their
desires to obey whatever counsel may be
given them from time to time. Last spring
we had a braiding school here, that the
young sisters might learn braiding; and
now the young ladies of Willard are wear-
ing hats of their own manufacture.
	On Tuesday, July 27th, we were favored
with a visit from Sister E. R. Snow and
Sister Richards from Ogden. A meeting
was held at two o'clock, in the school house;
a great deal of good instruction was given.
Sister Snow in her remarks asked the
young sisters if they would like to be or-
ganized as a Retrenchment Society? All
in the house responded that they would. A
meeting was then appointed for half past
seven in the evening and a general invita-
tion was given to the brethren, both young
and old, and also to the sisters, to attend.
	The schoolhouse was filled, and after
singing and prayer Sister Snow proceeded
to organize the young ladies. Mrs. Susanna
Lechtenberg was sustained as president of
the Society, Miss Melinda Hubbard, Mrs.
Lucey Nebeker, Miss Mary B. Cook, Miss
Mary Ann Ward, Mrs. Jane Parsons and
Miss Ellen Owens, her Counsellors; Miss
Anna Brewerton, Secretary; Miss Ann
Maria Wood, Assistant Secretary. The
young sisters gave in their names as mem-
bers, when it was motioned that the society

[Column 2]
be known as the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association of Willard. The meeting
was addressed by Sisters Snow and Rich-
ards. Another meeting was held on Wed-
nesday at two o'clock. Sister Snow and
Sister Richards were present and in the
course of their remarks, the advantages of
home industry, manufacturing everything
that we can, and also sericulture, were re-
ferred to; truly we had a good time and
our hearts were made to rejoice for the good
counsel we received, and it will long be re-
membered by those who attended the meet-
ings. 	Yours with respect,
	MARY ANN HUBBARD, President.
	 HANNAH COOK, Secretary.

	From Gunnison, Spring City, Cedar Fort
and Wellsville.
	We have so many reports from different
settlements that we are obliged to condense
them, and will give an item of each in this
article. From Gunnison, Sanpete County,
the report was of a meeting where Sisters
Snow, Horne, Howard and Barney were
present. The instructions of the ladies were
most eminently calculated to awaken the
sisters and inspire them with renewed zeal
and energy. The letter was an excellent
one, written by Secretary Helena Madson.
From Spring city there was a report of the
Seventh Annual meeting of their society,
which was very favorable; also an account
of a surprise party given to their President,
Mrs. M. A. Hyde, which was an enjoyable
affair. Reported by P. E. Benson, Secreta-
ry. From Cedar Fort, by letter of the Sec-
retary, Melinda Cook, we learn that pros-
perity has attended their labors in an almost
wonderful manner, and the good work the
sisters are doing is worthy the highest com-
mendation. From Wellsville there is also
a report of an Annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society, and of the organization of a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Assocation.
	From all these the accounts are most grat-
ifying, showing that the labors of the sis-
ters are resulting in good to themselves and
all interested.

	FARMINGTON, DAVIS CO., Aug. 2nd,EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In looking over the Society reports in the
EXPONENT, I find that many of the Settle-
ments have been favored with a visit from
Sister E. R. Snow and others. We also had
the pleasure of listening to Sister Snow and
Sister Presinda Kimball, at a meeting in 
this place held May 19th.
	Their coming was highly appreciated, al-
though I have been negligent in sending in
the report. The instructions we received
were similar to those given in other places-
Their whole aim is to do good, and use their
influence to get the people more interested
in Home Manufacture.
	They wished the people to set out mul-
berry trees, and go ahead in the silk busi-
ness, which I think we are well calculated
to do in Farmington, as we have persons
who understand it thoroughly, one who can
prepare it for the loom, and others who can
weave it into cloth.
	We also have a Millinery started, and are
saving something by making men's hats,
both from straw and cloth.
	Our Seventh Annual Meeting was held
June 30th, 1875, Bishop John Hess and
Coun. Arthur Stayner being present. They
talked very encouragingly, and thought we
were doing well; felt to sustain us in their
prayers, and by their presence when conve-
nient.
	A few words before I close in regard to
the reformation. We had a two days meet-

[Column Three]
ing on the 17th, and 18th, of last month, in a
grove fixed for the purpose. Some of the
Twelve and Elders from Salt Lake City
were present and told to us in plain words
where we stood, and how far we were from
living our religion. They read over the
first fourteen rules of the United Order, and
requested all those who desired to live up
to them, to be baptized and commence
anew. After meeting the bishops and some
of the leading men of Davis County were
baptized; since that time there have been
three afternoons of baptizing in this town,
and we are not through yet; which shows
that the majority want to do right.
	And that God will give us His spirit,
and help us to keep the covenants we have
made, is the prayer of
				AURELIA S. ROGERS.

			EPHRAIM, July 26th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Minutes of a meeting held at Ephraim,
Sanpete Co., Friday, June 25th, 1875. Af-
ter the usual ceremonies of opening, Mrs.
S. N. Peterson introduced Sister E. R.
Snow from Salt Lake City. Sister Snow
said: I have long desired this opportunity
of seeing the sisters of Ephraim and talk-
ing to them. Sisters, I occupy an honora-
ble position, but the great responsibility
attending it prevents my feeling proud. If
we are true saints nothing but the true
Spirit of God will satisfy us; if not, the
spirit of the world might satisfy. When
this society was first organized by the Pro-phet Joseph Smith, in the City of Nauvoo,
it was then almost the test of fellowship; it
was the standard of character; the name of
every virtuous woman was expected to be
enrolled in the society. I have the minutes
of this First Meeting; It is a Treasure be-
yond Price. Brother John Taylor was
called to the chair. Br. Joseph and other
brethren often met with us. Br. Joseph
said he wished the sisters to take charge of
the poor, relieve their wants, comfort them
in sickness, visit the widow and the father-
less, attend to the morals of the sisters,
never indulging in profane or vulgar lan-
guage, that the sisters might become Sa-
viours on Mount Zion.
	The duty of a Secretary is to write the
history of the Society, writing nothing but
what is really necessary, getting the spirit
of the meeting, that it may be a faithful
record to those who come after us.
	Let the sisters be careful not to speak
against POLYGAMY; the kingdom of God
cannot be built up without it. Say
nothing against the UNITED ORDER, for we
shall not go back to Jackson County, neither
will Zion be redeemed, without it.
	We have heard much of the union and
the generosity of the sisters of Ephraim, of
their industry, but how much they have
done in saving souls we have not been in-
formed; for there is no record of the higher
duties. Do we realize our responsibilities?
And that we have as much to do with the
salvation of our souls as the brethren? They
can not save us, we must save ourselves.
Many sisters think there are no duties but
those of the household. But these duties
were all performed in Babylon. Why are
we called out of Babylon? The sisters in
Zion are required to form the characters of
the sons who are to be rulers and bishops in
the kingdom of God. Then, woman must
be educated, intelligent and holy. Can we
with the contracted ideas of the world,
have revelations to know that Jesus is the
Christ? That Joseph Smith was sent of
God? That Brigham Young is his success-
or? The fruits of the Spirit of God are


[Column 1]
joy, love, peace, longsuffering, patience,
meekness; faultfinding is not of God. We
must cultivate ourselves; trials are neces-
sary, we must not turn aside because of
sorrow and trial; set your mark high, do
not be weary in well doing. We must be as
gold refined, as wheat well bolted, try to
come out of the head of the bolt. There
is no wrong in being tempted. Jesus was
tempted, He overcame. There are records
kept of those who are tempted and over-
come the tempter, "They are mine, saith
the Lord God, in the day when I make up
my jewels."
	"But," a sister says, "I have been injured,
I must be revenged." Sister, be silent,
trust in God, He will repay. It is a trying
time, many of the saints are asleep, seeking
the things of the world. Mothers, make
Zion uppermost. Young ladies, we are glad
you are organized, come to meeting, learn
the laws of life and salvation, never sacri-
fice the Spirit of God to marry a Gentile.
Those young men who are hanging around
the saloons, in Salt Lake City and elsewhere,
defile their bodies with whiskey, tobacco
and foul language; they are no more fit to
be husbands and fathers than the heathen,
and many girls are just the same. I am
sorry to say they have a Gentile teacher in
Mount Pleasant. They say, O, but he is a
gentleman, he is winning the hearts of the
children; sisters, do your duty. I would
rather my children never learned a letter of
the alphabet, than have them taught by such
a teacher. Sisters, have you a saloon here?
If not, be thankful, pray your husbands to
be strong against the introduction of liquor
saloons. Make home happier, never leave
children to go to meeting, take them with
you, or leave them in good care, that you
can trust. There are many things that I
would like to speak of, but I say God bless
you; meet often, encourage HOME MANU-
FACTURE, it helps bring in the United Or-
der. I've been many years in plurality, I
would not dare to say anything against it.
Of course there are trials in it, mortals are
imperfect, they make mistakes, there is no
wrong in being mistaken. I am willing to
sacrifice my feelings for the good of others,
everything but my principles, I am willing
to lay at the feet of my Saviour, for the
higher life. Step forward and be prepared
when the angels come to talk with the sis-
ters, as they did with Sarah and Abraham.
God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Horne said: I have been sick, but
I will occupy a few minutes. I am glad to
see the brethren meet with the sisters; it
is good. I wish to speak on the plurality
of wives; it is a great blessing to those who
do right. I could not have been here if it
were not for plurality. Cultivate the spirit
of peace. God commanded men and women
to go forth and replenish the earth. We
are called to bear the spirits of men. Girls,
keep the laws of life; be obedient to your
parents. The Relief Societies are endeav-
oring to establish home manufacture, to get
straw for hats and mulberry cuttings for
silk. Ask the brethren to assist in digging
and planting, but do all you can yourselves.
Sisters, meet often together. Many men
say, "what need for women to get together
and gossip about their neighbors." Breth-
ren, come and see and understand what
Relief Societies are for. Some men say,
"my wife has plenty to do at home;" can-
not men deny themselves sometimes and
give their wives a chance? The Lord has
given intelligence to both, they are equally
dependent on each other, the man at the
head, the woman as his counselor. Presi-
dent Young has got the machinery to make
silk; let us get the mulberries and raise the
[Column 2]
silk. We have heard that you make very
handsome straw trimmings in Ephraim.
God bless you. Amen.
	Sister Howard followed on the same sub-
jects, and spoke beautifully. Sister Barney
was also present, but did not address us.
	The sisters hope to have many such meet-
ings, and pray God to bless the sisters from
Salt Lake.
	On Sunday the 27th of June, the anni-
versary of the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
Brothers John Taylor, Orson Hyde,
Brigham Young, jr., Lorenzo Snow, Bishop
Canute Peterson and others, were re-bap-
tized into the United Order.
		With respect,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec.
	LETTER FROM KANAB, July 16th,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sister of the United Order of Kanab
were organized March 27th, 1875. We do
not call the organization a Relief Society
there being one in the place previous to our
organization, We call ourselves THE SIS-
TERS OF THE UNITED ORDER OF KANAB.
The object is that we may assist in the
prosperity of the Order to a better advan-
tage than we could otherwise do, and help
build up Zion.
	The organization by unanimous vote was,
Mrs. Emily J. Lewis, President; Mrs. Har-
riet M. Brown, First Vice President; Mrs.
Harriet Bunting, Second Vice president;
Mrs. Rhoda B. Young, Treasurer; Mrs. Ly-
dia Young, Secretary;
	We desire to do all we can to help to sus-
tain ourselves. We meet once a week for
working, and once a month for a general
meeting, and a good spirit prevailing.
	July 8th, we held our monthly meeting;
there were present, Bishop L. D. Young of
Salt Lake City, Brother Joseph A. Young of
Richfield, and a number of other brethren.
Brother John R. Young explained the na-
ture and object of our organization. Bro-
ther Joseph A. Young said the spirit of
these meetings is from the right source and
they are calculated to be a blessing to the
sisters; spoke of the influence wielded by
mothers in families in teaching their chil-
dren correct principles while young. Said
the United Order will eventually draw in
and embrace everything pertaining to the
kingdom, and direct and control the affairs
of the church. Said it was our duty to do
good to all the needy, whether in the church
or out of it, nurse the sick and afflicted.
Said it was the poor not the wealthy that
needed temporal assistance.
	Brother L. D. Young spoke on the same
subjects, said mothers should instruct their
daughters in household and other duties
that they may be qualified for the responsi-
ble position of wives and mothers. One
thing in particular he mentioned was, that
we should teach our children not to speak
evil of any person, and set them the exam-
ple ourselves. Jesus said, "do good to all
men;" strive to draw all around us. He
said, "my idea is, sisters, do all the good
you can, and no evil." Spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children the principles
of faith as soon as they can understand, im-
press it on their minds, that they may re-
tain it when they grow older. Asked the
Lord to bless us in our endeavors to estab-
lish the United Order in this place.
	President E. J. Lewis said she had been
well pleased with the meeting, thanked our
brethren for their kindness in visiting us;
wished the sisters to treasure up the excel-
lent instructions they had heard and profit
thereby.
[Column 3]
	We feel that we have truly had a feast of
good things, and after the visit of these
brethren to go to work with renewed ener-
gy, and strive through perseverance to gain
the reward laid up in store for the faithful.
			LYDIA YOUNG, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPLINTERS.

			General.
	It is estimated the loss by strikes in Eng-
land this season is over $12,000,000......
There is to be a religious paper printed in
Egypt, in the Arabic language......A mon-
ument like Humbolt's in New York, is be-
ing erected in Magnolia Cemetry, Charles-
ton, D. C. to William Gilmore Sims the
distinguished Southern novelist.....A cir-
cus exhibiting in La Crosse, Wis., was
struck by a hurricane recently.  There was
terrible tumult and confusion and several
persons seriously injured......A cyclome
passed through Harveysburg, Indiana, on
the 24th of July, five women were killed
and much damage done to property.....A
slight earthquake was felt in Hartford,
Conn. on the 28th of July, and with greater
force in the western part of the State.
			Foreign.
......The British Syrian schools for girls
which were organized in 1850 have now 2,
000 pupils.......The Emperor Francis Joseph
has sent to the Austrian Consul-General at
Venice, the sum of $2,000 for the poor.......
Armies of rats have, for several years, des-
troyed the crops of the Younjoo Karens in
Burmah......The statue of Richard Baxter,
was uuvailed at Kidderminster, July 28th:
he was a zealous laborer in the cause of re-
ligion between the years 1541 and 1660 in
that town; and the author of "The Saints
Best."......An excursion is being organized
in Genoa, to visit the international exhibi-
tion next year......The American Palestine
Expedition left London, July 10th, for Liv-
erpool, expecting to embark for Egypt "en
route" for Beyroute; Col. Lane, Prof. Mer-
ritt and Mr. Grant were with the company
.....The British and Foreign Bible Society
last year received $100,310.
			Personal.
	Judge Fisher has tendered his resignation
as U. S. District Attorney for the district of
Columbia, and ex-Governor Mills of Mo. is
to fill the vacency......Miss Mary Starley, of
London, was the originator of the Floral
Mission by which the hospitals on both of
the Atlantic are adorned with flowers which
refresh and gladden the sick......The life of
Dean Swift is being prepared for publication
by Mr. John Forster.......General Garfield is
rapidly recovering his strength, and expects
to take part in the Ohio campaign......Isaac
M. Singer the inventor of the sewing ma-
chine, died in London, July 23rd, aged 64
......Garibalda recently paid a visit to Civita
Vecchia and was most enthusiastically
greeted....Rev, Celia Bualeigh, the well
known woman suffrage advocate and preach-
er, died at Syracuse, July 27th, aged 48


TO understand the world is wiser than to
condemn it. To study the world is better
than to shun it. To use the world is better
than to abuse it. To make the world better,
lovelier and happier is the noblest work of
man or woman.


THE opportunity of making happy is
more scarce than we imagine; the punish-
ment of missing it, never to meet with it
again; and the use we make of it leaves us
an eternal sentiment of satisfaction or re-
pentence.—Rousseau.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Established semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East street, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY. AUGUST 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		A WEEK OUT OF TOWN.
	With Londoners residing in Salt Lake City,
a feeling is said to exist as of continued rusti-
cating. Not so, however, with the home raised
American, whose early life has been princi-
pally spent in the ever multiplying pioneer
settlements of Utah. To such an individual,
Salt Lake City is a city in reality, however in-
ferior to the world's great metropolis. And af-
ter a year's quiet performance of daily duties
here, in the midst of Summer's long, hot, dus-
ty days the soul wearies and begins to languish
for a season of out-door life, for the pure at-
mosphere and perfect freedom which the city
knew in its younger days but has lost amid the
continuous bustle of a rapidly growing popula-
tion and increasing wealth.
	Hence, after due consideration, about three
weeks since, we concluded to accept an invita-
tion from hospitable friends, and spend a few
days with them in Grantsville—the little
western settlement where a dozen years ago
we had a happy home.
	Among the many great changes which have
transpired within the last decade, may be
counted the building of Utah's railways. It
doesn't seem so much of an undertaking now,
to go from this city to Grantsville as it used to,
to make the journey in the opposite direction,
when it would be jog, jog, jog, over a rough
road for nearly a whole day; for the longer and
rougher part of the way is rendered enjoyable
by a short two hour's ride on the U. W. R. R.
This little ride, upon the morning of which
we write—when starting for a week's out in
the country—was particularly pleasant, as we
were favored with the company of a young
lady whose remarkable love for travel renders
her a most agreeable traveling companion.
	Miss C. thought it would be delightful to go
to the Centennial, and see so much of the
world as will there be exhibited in so small a
compass. But it would be still more charming
to visit all the places which will be represented
there, and see the specialities of different coun-
tries in their native conditions. We agreed
with her.
	Certainly if in that quiet morning ride much
pleasure could be found, and some informa-
tion gained, to travel extensively must be ex-
ceedingly pleasing and instructive. But both
sides of the question were canvassed. Fatigue
and difficulties often to be encountered, were
reckoned upon as matters of course.
	As the steamer, Gen. Garfield, lay in our way,
to pass by without a recognition of its exist-
ence, would be incompatible. Of course we
would take a sail.
	There were hours to wait after the return
of the train from the Half-way House (we rode
over there and back to Clinton's) before the
[Column 2]
steamer would sail. Plenty of time for rest-
ing, looking about, eating dinner and taking a
bath. The latter proved a very delectable way
of passing off the time; and Mrs. G., a gener-
ous hearted, fun loving lady who was present
with some "cousins from the country" added
much to the attractiveness of the occasion by
her original merriment.
	We went on board early that we might have
the better opportunity of doing justice to the
little steamer by minute observation. It has
been newly and neatly painted and fitted up,
under the directions of its present owner, Mr.
J. W. Young, improvements for the assurance
of safety have been made. Captain Dorris is a
genial and pleasant seaman.
	Before the steamer sailed, a company of
friends who came from the city by the one
o'clock train, joined us. Mrs. G'.s sister and
sister-in-law, Mrs. W. and others with whom
it is ever a pleasure to meet. Miss D., who,
without seeming to know how, always mana-
ges to make herself agreeable, told us about a
day spent on the lake in the other little steam-
er, "a day of days, never to be forgotten."
Then we returned with her, in imagination,
from tracing the happy by-gone, to the reality
of the peaceful present.
	The lake was so calm and beautiful and the
breeze so cool and refreshing, as we glided far-
ther and farther from the land, it almost seemed
as though to remain away out upon the fair,
smooth bosom of the waters, until the heat
and dust of mid-summer should have past,
would be a grateful relief.
	Then the wonders arose, whether upon the
island towards which the course of the boat
was directed, the scorching rays of the July
sun beat down with as great violence as they did
upon the shore we had left. What sort of a
place the island was, and why "John W.," or
some other capitalist, did not erect a commodi-
ous house thereupon, opposite Dr. Clinton's, to
which pleasure seekers and invalids might re-
sort for a few days or weeks at a time.
	One circumstance kept our otherwise serene
feelings slightly disturbed. We had seen noth-
ing of Mrs. H., from Grantsville, who, accord-
ing to our calculations, was to have joined us
on the steamer, or before we went on. The ir-
regularity of the mails between Salt Lake and
Grantsville had already twice balked us in our
intentions. Had our last communication failed
to reach its proper place of destination, there
was no alternative but for us to return home
by the evening train.
	After a while, a new yet familiar and wel-
come countenance presented itself in that por-
tion of the boat where we were seated. Mrs.
H.'s daughter advanced and spoke to us. It was
all right then, the team had come. And upon
the return of the boat to the landing, we were
greeted by Mrs. H. herself.
	The rest of our journey for the day was per-
formed in the old fashioned horse-team style,
and we enjoyed it greatly.
	There was a meeting of the Relief Society in
Grantsville, on the 29th of July, the next day
after our arrival there. This afforded us the
privilege of greeting many friends, both old
and new, which otherwise we should not have
enjoyed. The humble, teachable spirit which
was manifested in the meeting, spoke well for
the officers and members of both the Relief So-
ciety and the Retrenchment Association. Their
great desire to improve could not have been
more clearly portrayed than by the eagerness
they evinced to receive instruction, even from
the simplest instrument the Lord might place
in their midst.  After the close of the meeting
many cordial invitations for entertainment
were extended, many which we regretted being
[Column 3]
unable to accept. We could not refuse to meet
and spend an afternoon with some of the offi-
cers of the Society at the house of one of the
counselors; to spend a day and night with their
President, and to pass the last night of our stay
in Grantsville under the roof of still another
dear, sisterly friend. Mrs. H. was now ready
to drive with us five miles from the settlement,
up the kanyon road to the "Ranch."
	Oh the Ranch! On the way little Danny B.,
also a guest of Mrs. H., opened with us a cate-
chetical conversation.
	"How old is your baby?"
	"Thirteen months. How old are you?"
	"Seven years. How long are you going to
stay here?"
	"A week if we don't get home-sick and go
home on Sunday. How long have you been
here?"
	"Only four weeks!"
	Only four weeks! A very short period in-
deed for a seven year old boy to be from under
his paternal roof! But he was with trusty
friends, and healthier there than in town.
	Well, the Ranch. "Liberty Hall," Mrs. H.
named her dwelling there, because at that place
all friends were to do as they pleased, say what
they liked and be perfectly independent and
at ease.
	Who does not know how quickly one day
follows another in such a place? Where you can
ride on horseback, milk cows, feed the dogs
and chickens, grabble potatoes, drink butter-
milk, sing and whistle as loud and long as you
have a mind to, laugh at the "merry Andrew,"
roll on the grass, rest body and soul, and in-
dulge in intelligent conversation for a relish
without a taint of fashionable gossip in it!
	The week expired quite soon enough, and
when the time came for us to return to the
city, we no longer wondered at Danny's em-
phatic "only four weeks!" or that he declined
an invitation to accompany us home.
	There, we have probably given as detailed
an account of our week out of town as our
readers will have patience to follow us in.


OUR TIME

	The day in which we live is continually quo-
ted by all classes and people, and it is some-
thing it would be well to realize as well as
quote; we belong to the time in which we live,
we are not actors in the past, our lives are in
the present and we may help to rear for our-
selves and others a character and name adapt-
ed to the age, the events, and the circumstan-
ces now transpiring. Take little heed who is
for or who against us, so we have conscience
for our pilot and the great Master-builder ap-
prove our work. But what wisdom, what faith,
what patience, what grace we need each day to
fill up the measure of duty and of work; on
each side of us are besetments to substitute
pleasure for duty, and there is an inclination
in our minds perhaps to comply with these
suggestions. We are like the mariner, trying
to steer carefully perhaps through an unknown
sea, one unexplored, and here and there the
snags, the quicksands, the dangerous places,
and the smooth shallow water even, may tempt
us upon dangerous ground. We may think, I
will venture, it may be safe, and even be-
fore we are aware we are stranded. Perplexi-
ties and troubles lie in the pathway of mortals.
	There are many helps to bear and lighten
difficulties, to guide and comfort, which are
entirely ignored by the generality of practical
people, on account of their seeming insignifi-
cance. "Kind words are jewels beyond price"
at home or abroad, cheerfulness is another
wel; let one go about with a downcast look


and he will neither satisfy himself, or benefit
others. If we desire to leave an impression of
ourselves upon the time in which we live, if
we would exert a lasting influence among our
associates, we cannot muse over our griefs, we
must be ever awake to the circumstances which
surround us, we must observe the people
among whom we live, if we would do them
good, if we would carry into their hearts and
souls a conviction of the great truths the Gos-
pel has revealed, if we would assist the rising
generation to shun those evils which have
wrought the most harm, those tendencies which
have developed into sin and crime and wicked-
ness. We cannot shut our eyes and live for
self, or idly pass away the precious moments
given us for labor and work. We must take the
current when it serves, or loose our ventures.
	Sisters awake from this stupor, this slothful-
ness, see what you can do by faith and prayer
and active work in the line of duty; bury not
in the earth the faculties assigned you to im-
prove upon, but trusting in the power of God
who has promised to sustain all those who
strive in humility and meekness to keep His
commandments. Come forward and do your
duty, heedless of criticism, for though you
may be scoffed at even, by those whose good
feelings you desire to keep, it is better to have
an approving conscience than the friendship of
any living mortal without it. 
	Do not content yourself with the idea that
your help is not necessary, that you have no
ability or talent that can be of any service in
rolling forth the kingdom of God. How many
women have thought they had no influence,
that their words and their ideas were not of
sufficient consequence to make or mar anoth-
er's happiness, or help to establish their princi-
ples, who have lived and died without benefit-
ing those with whom they were connected;
meanwhile have they left any impression?
Yes, they certainly have, that they had let the
golden opportunity pass, the precious time
go by, without appreciating their advantages,
or developing those inherent gems of
worth and richness which the God of heaven
had implanted within their souls to beautify
and elevate mortality. Sisters, let us who still
live, who have yet a day of grace granted un-
to us take warning by those, who have regretted
in their dying moments that they had not lived
better lives. Let us strive by faith, to do some
little good, to serve our fellow creatures, to help
all within our reach, embracing within our
grasp the living and the dead, for this is one
of the great features of OUR TIME that we can
minister to those who have not been favored of
God as we have been.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	"Leaves have their time to fall
	 And flowers to wither nt the north wind's breath,
	And stars to set—but all,
	 Thou hast, all seasons for thine own, O death."
	With deep and sincere regret we record the
sudden death of Elder Joseph A. Young, eld-
est son of President Brigham Young, and him-
self President of the United Order in Sevier
County. He has been taken away from our
midst in the glory of his manhood; he was a
man of brilliant talents of acute mental quick-
ness of perception of men and things, and ad-
mirably calculated to lead out in the position
he held. He was born in Kirtland, Geauga Co.
Ohio, October 14th, 1834. He was a person
whom to know intimately was to admire; his
genuineness of heart, his courteous and affable
manners, won for him numerous hosts of
friends. In conversation he was witty and
sparkling. The people over whom he presided
and with whom he familiarized himself, have


met with a severe loss, which it will be hard
to make up to them. A short time previous to
his death, he availed himself of the privilege
of re-baptism, and expressed himself on several
occasions as particularly grateful for the oppor-
tunity.
	We extend our truest sympathies to his fam-
ily in their bereavement, to his aged parents,
and his relatives, and may He who comforts the
mourner sustain them under this affliction,
knowing the promises of those who die in the
Lord, and believing that "though dead, he
liveth."


LETTER OF CONDOLENCE.

		MOUNT PLEASANT,
			Friday Noon, Aug 6th, 1875.
	To MRS. MARY A. YOUNG:
DEAR SISTER:
	The painful news has this morning reached
us of the decease of your excellent and much
esteemed husband President Joseph A. Young.
His loss will be keenly felt by many, but more
especially by those with whom he was more
intimately associated, and who had the bene-
fit of his wise and judicious counsel. I allude
to those over whom he had the honor to pre-
side in Sevier County. May the seed sown by
him bear precious fruit ,that will do honor to
his name throughout an endless eternity.
	His death has cast a gloom over every one
here and all deeply sympathize with you and
every member of his family, who have thus
suddenly been called upon to separate for a
season, from a kind husband and loving father.
	May the God of Abraham, Joseph Smith
and of your own Joseph, comfort and sustain
you under your most trying bereavement, that
the deep wound which has been thus inflicted
may only tend to bind you, his dear child-
ren, and every member of his family, nearer
and nearer to him; and be prepared for the
great events in the future which are looming
up on every side.
	Allow me to tender the heart-felt sympathies
of every daughter of Zion in this place, whose
aspirations will be offered up in your behalf
this night, that our Father in heaven may,
through His Spirit comfort and console you,
and be a tower of strength unto you in this the
hour of your great affliction.
	Please accept of my sympathy and sincere
sorrow for you in your affliction, and remem-
ber always that "we do not sorrow as those with-
out hope," and may you enjoy that peace
which the world can neither give nor take
away, is the fervent prayer of,
		   Your Sister in the Gospel,
			MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.


ELDER AMOS Fielding who died suddenly
Aug. 5th, was one of the first who embraced
the Gospel in Great Britain, and assisted in
chartering some of the first ships that brought
the saints to America. He remained ever
staunch and true to his integrity and the doc-
trines he had espoused, and was always an ad-
vocate for the "Word of Wisdom," having
himself kept it strictly for thirty-six years.
He died at the advanced age of 83, in the full
hope of a glorious resurrection.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Northern Railroad is progressing
rapidly; it is expected the road will be com-
pleted before cold weather.
	THE UTAH Educational Journal for August,

[Column 2]
is well filled with interesting matter upon the
subject which it aims to sustain and advance.
Such a magazine was much needed and is wor-
thy the patronage of any intelligent commu-
nity.
	ELDER E. W. Tullidge, of this city who is
at present in New York City, looking after the
publication of his book "The Founders of
Utah," is noticed in the New York papers as a
man of talent and ability, but as being under
the spiritual control of Joseph Smith.
	TWO-DAYS meeting was held in Brigham
City, Box Elder County, Saturday and Sunday
President D. H. Wells presiding. The preach-
ing was spirited and calculated to awaken a
good degree of interest in the hearts of the
people to reform and renew their covenaits be-
fore the Lord.
	THE THEATRE opened for a short season
Thursday, Aug. 12, under the charge and
supervision of Mr. E. B. Marden; who se-
cured the services of the charming little ac-
tress Miss Jennie Lee and also the talented
comedian Mr. J. P. Bernett. The plays have
been well chosen and the performances com-
mendable.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of a magnifi-
cent bouquet of flowers, including every va-
riety of shade and color of dahlias, as well as
other sweet-scented blossoms, and ferns. Many
thanks for the same, to Mrs. Emily Wagstaff,
of "Glendale Gardens." It is always cheer-
ing to look upon these delightful specimens of
Nature's handiwork, and when they are pleas-
ant reminders of kind friends, they have a
double significance.
	EX-BISHOP William Miller of Provo, died
suddenly at his residence Friday evening Aug.
7th; it is stated he had been working in the
harvest field a part of that day; he was first
Counselor to President A. O. Smoot. Also El-
der Alphonzo Greene died Aug. 7th, at hss resi-
dence at the half-way house, between Lehi and
American Fork; he was a man highly esteem-
ed by all who knew him for his honesty and
uprightness of character; he had long been a
member of the church and was devoted to his
religion; he was 65 years of age.
	THE NORMAL Institute which opened its
session Monday Aug. 2nd, kept up an increasing
interest during the complete term of two weeks.
Wednesday evening, Aug. 4. Prof. O. H. Riggs
delivered a lecture on education which was
highly approved by all present, as being prac-
tically adapted to the subject; and the hints to
teachers who desire to gain the good feelings
of their pupils, in order to awaken an interest
in their mental development, were worthy of
attention. Prof. Karl G. Maeser's lectures on
the Theory and Practice of Teaching have
been of the highest intellectual order, and
those who have listened from day to day can-
not fail to be impressed with the correctness of
his views upon this important subject. Prof.
Orson Pratt delivered a lecture on Wednesday
evening Aug. 11th, on the Centripetal and Cen-
trifugal Forces, which was particularly inter-
esting to those far advanced in the Science of
Philosophy. A part of the last week of the Insti-
tute, Roll Call was answered by sentiment, which
made a very pleasing variety in the routine of
the exercises. On Thursdsy the regular exer-
cises closed, and on Friday an excursion party
of the gentlemen and ladies of the Institute
with a large and select party of friends, went
to Lake Point by train, and took a ride on
the Gen. Garfield, encountered a severe gale,
but returned in safety at midnight. Saturday
the Territorial examination of teachers took
place, closing the entire session.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LETTERS FROM ABROAD.
		42, ISLINGTON, LIVERPOOL,
						June 24th, 1875.
MY DEAR AUNT,
		Mercy R. Thompson:
	Your very kind favor of May 12th, came
to hand June 5th when I was in Borne,
Switzerland, I have not had time to an-
swer since.
	I will try to visit some of our kindred in
this old country before I return home.
When the last event will be I donot know,
any more than I do the first; and I desire to
be found doing my duty the best I can in
my weakness at all times. My health con-
tinues good.
	I am no ways doubtful about the promise
received by Grandmother Fielding respect-
ing her children, being fulfilled, any more
than I am about the Savior's preaching the
gospel to the spirits of the rebellious ante-
diluvians, but I am fearful that some of
them who have had an opportunity of hear-
ing the truth and receiving it in the flesh,
but who have allowed their prejudices to
blind their minds, and harden their hearts
against it, will have to "pay the debt to the
uttermost farthing," in the "prison house,"
before they will realize the fulfillment of the
promise. Herein may you, and those who
are in the covenant, under Christ the Head,
become propitiated and saviors unto them.
I believe too it is the design of the mighty
Creator that not only this generation, to
whom the gospel has come, but the genera-
tions of the past and of the future, shall
come and drink of the fountain of life freely
if they will. But,
		"Know this that every soul is free,
		  To choose his life and what he'll be;
		  For this eternal truth is given,
		  That God will force no man to heaven."
	I believe if there had been ten righteous
souls in Sodom, God would have spared the 
city, but they were not to be found, and
sudden destruction came upon it. "Zion
might have been redeemed even now—
were it not for the transgressions of my peo-
ple." But they have not yet learned to be
obedient to the things required, "and we
must needs be chastened until we learn obe-
dience if by the things we suffer." But be-
fore the great day of the Lord shall come
Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness and the
Lamanites shall blossom as the rose, Zion
shall flourish upon the hills, and rejoice up-
on the mountains and shall be assembled to-
gether unto the place which I have appoint-
ed." All these are being fulfilled, and the
Saints have cause to rejoice, "but many
promises seemed to have failed because of
unbelief and unrighteousness, speaking of
the church as a whole and not individuals;"
but the purposes of God are ripening, the
promises await the preparation of the
church, which will be wrought by the 
righteousness of the people; when the un-
godly tremble, and fear shall surprise the
hypocrite in Zion. Then will you realize
the fulfillment of the promises of God
through the patriarchs and prophets, wheth-
er you tarry in the flesh of ascend to the
glorious life of the redeemed Spirit. The
redeemed are Christs, and He is God's, who
is not the God of the dead but of the living.
Redemption comes by repentance and bap-
tism into Christ—the birth of the water and 
the Spirit, such are the living, whether in
or out of the flesh, and they that shall come
forth in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion, on whom "the second death hath no
power, and they shall be Priests unto God,
and reign with him on the earth." But the
unredeemed are they that are dead whether
in or out of the flesh, and they will rise not
[Column 2]
at all until the thousand years are ended.
God is not their God. In this I do not
mean redemption from the fall of Adam,
for all—even the sons of perdition, both the
evil and the good are redeemed from the 
fall, but for the wicked there awaits a "sec-
ond death." I mean the perfect redemp-
tion through the perfect and complete gos-
pel. But this you know perfectly, as well
as I.
	If I had not so much writing to do, would
try to open a correspondence with some of
our folks, and I will try as it is, if possible.
	Yours of May 23rd with note to Aunt
Ann Matthews enclosed came to hand June
14th. I forwarded it to her to-day with
the accompanying note. I cannot but think
there is a little affection in her letter to
you. She certainly received your letter of
introduction which I brought and sent her
March 24, 1874, or it would have been re-
turned. Mails are very regular and certain
in this country the English post system be-
ing as near as perfect as possible. I sent it ad-
dressed as you will see with our published
address on the envelope. Messrs. Moody and
Sanky are a couple of shrewd Yankee ad-
venturers, and are supposed to be making
great fortunes out of their religious furors.
They are the same that visited S. L. City
three years ago, and after praising our Sab-
bath school system and expressing wonder-
ful delight at the courtesies extended to
them by our people, went away rolling up
their eyes in holy horror at the terrible
wickedness they found among the Mor-
mons. I have attended some of their
meetings and sent them the "Star." Their
doctrine is "Come to Jesus—only believe
and you will be saved." It was said by the
Liverpool papers that the first week of their
visit to Liverpool the criminal dockets, in
the police court were greatly in excess of
the average; and the insane asylums have
come in for their share of religious mani-
acs caused by the excitement; all of which
are facts—but to mention it to such as Aunt
Matthews, it would be considered persecu-
tion.  The people will not endure sound
doctrine, and are turned unto fables.
			Affectionately,
				Jos. F. Smith.
		12 ISLINGTON, LIVERPOOL,
			ENG., March, 9th, 1875.
MY DEAR ROBERT B.:
	Your kind letter and valentine came to
hand this morning. I was pleased indeed
to see that you could write so well. I hope
you will continue to improve until you can
write like your grandfather Thompson and
much better than I can.
	When I was a little boy as you are now,
and should have been going to school and
learning to read, write, cipher &c. I had to
travel on the plains and camp in the deserts,
with no home but a wagon or a tent, and no
school-teacher to instruct me. And when
at last with the saints I found a home in
Utah, I was obliged to herd cattle, to plough,
irrigate, harvest and go to the canyon to
get wood and help to build a home for my
mother (your grand aunt) and had no chance
to go to school until I was a big boy and
then I went three months and three weeks;
this was the extent of my schooling. When
I started on a mission in 1854 I was fifteen
years old, and had never written a letter
in my life, and did not know how to write
a dozen words; but I began to feel the need
of an education so I studied, practised, pray-
ed and tried to learn, and have been learn-
ing at a disadvantage ever since; now I can
just write so as to be understood.
	I want to see you and my little boys have
[cOLUMN 3]
better advantages than I had and then im-
prove your time. You are blessed and you
should be good. May God bless you.
			Affectionately,
					Joseph F. Smith.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I should like to copy after our old friend
Pipsey; and write a few things for your
pages that may be both useful and enter-
taining.
	In the first place I must tell you who Pip-
sey is; as all our readers do not take "Ar-
thur's Home Magazine."  She is a lady
I judge on the shady side of forty who
writes very entertaining pieces for it.  She
has a continual fund of information, com-
bined with sketches and items of interest.
	I am neither fat, fair nor forty, nor do I
profess to have Pipsey's talent, but I trust
that I see and know many things that
might prove interesting and beneficial.
	I am happy to see the ladies of Utah
come forward and prove to the world that
they possess both talent and integrity, that
they may no longer be judged with false-
hood and prejudice, but come forward to
make a record for themselves.
	Sister Snow, with some of her sister work-
ers in the good cause made us a visit a few
days ago.  They held a meeting and gave
us much good instruction.  She reproved
us too quite severely.  I suppose we need-
ed it.  Of course the coat did not  me,
(of course not,) She said we were asleep.
(Did she mean me I wonder)?  She said we
did not send our daughters to retrenchment
meeting. Now that was not  me for I have
none old enough to send.
	I must say a few words for the girls of
our town.  I believe a majority of them
were born on Saturdays, at least they fill the
adage to work hard for a living.  Many of
them work in the factory, some teach
school, and some go out to housework, while
others help mother at home.  I must say a
word too for mothers.  I believe many of
them would like to see their children pur-
sue a different course from what they do:
but there is so much young America about
them, and mothers are such old fashioned
people that they are not supposed to know
what is altogether proper now-a-days.
	NOW I wish all of our young people to
read the EXPONENT, so that my voice might
reach every one of them, and I would say
girls and boys too:  What are you doing?
Are you living so as to prove yourselves
sons and daughters in Zion?  Do you learn
things pertaining to the kingdom of God?
Or are your minds led away by the vain
things of the world.  Do you qualify your-
selves to become useful helpmeets to noble
men, or are your lives filled with fashion and
frivolity? If a time of trial should come
requiring sacrifices such as others before
you have made, how many would have for-
titude to make them?  How many would
stand strong in faith in Israel's God and
say: Lord we are ready, for we know that
thou wilt sustain us while this great wave
of affliction is passing by, or if perchance
our lives are spent in the endeavor, Thou
wilt bear us up to meet Thee in a home of
light and happiness above.
	The Third Ward Relief Society met at
Bro. Madsen's on June 24th, to organize a
branch Society on the Lake bottom.  Presi-
dent M. T. Smoot, R. A. Holden, and sister
Johnson and counselors met with us.
	Mrs. Anna Johnson was ordained Presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary Madsen and Mrs. I Hold-


anary counselors, under the supervision of
Mrs. M. J. Tanner, President of the Third
Ward. A general good feeling prevailed.
						   MARY.
	PROVO July 29th, 1875.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		THE KINDERGARTEN.

	It would be impossible to attempt to give
even the most essential outlines of the
great system of Kindergarten, in one or
two brief articles, so that a perfect under-
standing of the subject could be aimed at
by those who may not be somewhat ac-
quainted with this peculiar phase of educa-
tion.
	The word "Kindergarten" is German, and
means a garden of and for children, and
was given to this institution by its inven-
tor, Karl Frederick Froebel, an educator of
great renown in Germany. But it would
be wrong to suppose that no one before him
had ever thought of putting some of these
principles into practice which led Froebel to
the development of his beautiful system
which, since its beginning, has spread not
only throughout Europe, but has also made
its benign influence felt in quite a number
of the cities of the United States.
	Lycurgus, the great lawgiver of Sparta,
800 years before Jesus Christ, already intro-
duced the idea of training chileren from a
very early age by play to the earnest work
of life. The great philosopher Plato like-
wise commended playing as a very impor-
tant factor in the education of children.
The Roman Emperor Justinian, while for-
biding all games for money, replaced them
by the innocent games of motion. The
emperor Charlemagne introduced plays
among the Germans to civilize them, as
did Peter the Great among the Russians,
and the examples of numerous other rulers,
philosophers and statesmen might be ad-
duced to show how much the importance of
plays, or learning by means of plays, has
been appreciated in ancient as well as in
modern times; by various nations and un-
der almost all conceivable circumstances.
And if I might be permitted to make a
practical illustration in the case of our peo-
ple in these mountains, the rude habits
of the majority of our children,—at least in
the earlier times of their settlement here—
may, I think, be justly traced to their non-
acquaintance with the healthy spirit of
well-directed and judiciously selected plays,
the absence of which forced them to indul-
gence in recreations of their own unculti-
vated making.
	Some objections have been raised against
the establishment of Kindergartens, among
which the reproach that it supplanted natu-
ral development by artificial training, has
been foremost. But the very generality of
this crude assertion shows the weakness of
the position, inasmuch as the kindergarten
is just the opposite by artificial training,
aiming, as it does, solely to direct and
cultivate the senses and impulses of the
child and to avoid everything not in per-
fect harmony with the laws of nature,
beauty and morality, bodily and intellectual
health, and the limited sphere of compre-
hension by the child. And in respect to
this the testimony of the great German
poet, Goethe, is perhaps not amiss for repe-
tition here. Concerning the little cuttings
in paper which he used to indulge in when
a child, guided in those plays by his moth-
er—a woman of large intellect and rare re-
finement of mind—"Goethe" says: "This
childish occupation and entertainment has
cultivated and increased within me in var-
ious ways the gift and power of invention

[Column 2]
and representation, and developed my im-
agination and fancy in such a manner as it
could not have been done, perhaps, in any
other way so effectually and with so little
effort."
	There might yet, perhaps, be raised a
question as to the expediency of carrying
out this educational plan here in our moun-
tain home. To which I simply reply: Let
such a garden be once started by a judicious,
experienced lady teacher, and its success
here, as well as elsewhere, will be the best
demonstration of its feasibility.
	"Kindergarten culture," says Miss Pea-
body, in the preface to the "Moral Culture
of Infancy, "is the adult mind entering the
child's world and appreciating nature's in-
tention as displayed in every impulse of
spontaneous life, so directing it that the joy
of success may be ensured at every step,
and artistic things be actually produced,
which gives the self-reliance and conscious
intelligence that ought to discriminate hu-
man power from blind force."
	I will now give in outline the method of
conducting the kindergarten: Of course, a
primary consideration is the teacher: She
should be a lady of very gentle manners,
intellectual attainments and good taste, ac-
quainted with music and drawing, as well
as possessed of the various domestic ac-
complishments which we expect in a lady of
cultivated mind, so that she may be able to
meet out of a well-filled store house of ex-
perience, the multifarious and continually
changing demands which capricious and
eager childhood may claim of her, and
which the very nature of her calling neces-
sitates; since her mission is not so much
for mere class-training as in a common
school where the individuality of the child
becomes more or less subordinate to gener-
al rules, but rather the study of every sin-
gle little one destined to develop under her
care. She must therefore not only control
the workings of the little heart and brain and
fingers, but understand and enter into its
sphere of thought and comprehension, by
closest sympathy guiding it, placing her-
self, as it were, not above it but alongside of
it—which position must differ in many es-
sential respects from that of the ordinary
class-teacher.
					CAMILLA C. COBB.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE number of postal cards so'd last
year is 107,615,000.
	ON the British railways last year, there
were 211 passengers killed and 1,981 in-
jured.
	ONLY six out of 162 mills at Oldham, En-
gland, belonging to the Employers' Associ-
ation are working.
	IN fifty-nine years the American Bible
Society has issued 31,803,332 copies of the 
Bible.
	A THOUSAND flashes of lightning were
counted in an hour during the great storm
on the 7th of July at Geneva, Switzerland.
	NORTH America now has communication
with Europe through five cables.  The first
was laid in 1866; the second in 1869; the
third in 1873; the fourth in 1874; and the
last has just been completed.
	THE booksellers' exchange at New York
closed on the 24th, after a successful week.
Nearly 500 buyers attended, and it was the
largest gathering of the trade ever held in
this country.  The sales are estimated at
$400,000.


AMONG the remarkable productions of
California is the Hogan family of Mendoci-
no County. The father stands six feet two
inches in his stockings, one son six feet six
inches, a second six feet three and one-half
inches and a third six feet seven inches.
	DR. Hurst’s "Outline History of the
Church," gives the following population to
the creeds of the world: Christianity, 407,
000,000; Buddhism, 340,000,000; Moham-
medanism, 200,000,000; Brahmanism, 175,
000,000; Confucianism, 80,000,000; Judah-
ism, 7,000,000; all other religious belief,
174,000,000; of the Christian population of
the world, 137,007,449 are assigned to Pro-
testantism, 200,339,390 to Roman Catholi-
cism, and 75,390,940 to the Oriental church-
es. In the World comprising North and
South America, the Roman Catholics are in
the majority, having 50,931,983 of popula-
tion to 36,936,900 of Protestants.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	An Excellent Recipe for Washing.—8 lbs sal-
soda, 1 lb borax, 2 lbs rosin; 4 oz. salt of tartar,
3 oz. liquid ammonia. Dissolve the soda, borax
and rosin in 8 quarts of water, stand ten minutes,
then add the salt of tartar and liquid ammonia
with eight gallons of water; use one pint to a large
washing.
	Baked Tomatoes.—Select thoroughly ripened
fruit, cut them in halves: sprinkle over the cut
half with bread crumbs, sugar, salt, pepper and
butter. Place them in a baking pan, cut side up-
ward, and bake in an oven for two hours. Serve
on a platter garnished with curled parsley.
	Dessert.—Place as many crackers as may be
desired in saucers and cover with boiling water.
When all the water is absorbed, cover with thick
cream and sugar, then place a spoonful of jelly in
the centre of each and season with nutmegs. No
nicer dessert can be desired.
	Pickling Cucumbers.—We have found that as
good a way as any is to put them in salt as soon
as pickled and keep them covered with the same
till ready to use. Then freshen with frequent
changes of water, and finally scald in pure cider
vinegar, the stronger the better.
	To make an old silk look new take an old kid
glove and simmer it well in water, filling up if
necessary. For light silk a light glove, for dark
or black silk the color is immaterial. Sponge thesilk well with the liquid, which will remove all
creases and wrinkles, and iron on the wrong side
while damp; this will make it look fresh, smooth
and glossy.
	Good Pastry.—To seven tablespoonfuls of flour
add one heaping tablespoonful of lard, and one
teaspoonful of salt. Rub the flour and lard thor-
oughly together; add enough ice-cold water to
make a stiff paste; catch this lightly together with
a fork; flour the paste board well; take enough of
the paste for a pie, and roll it out quickly and gen-
tly. On the top crust drop thickly little pieces of
butter.
	How to make yeast powder; Three recipes.—
1. Take five ounces of tartaric acid, eight ounces of
bi-carbonate of soda, and sixteen ounces of potato
starch; dry them all separately in a cool oven, not
hot enough to brown them, and mix the whole by
rubbing through a sieve.
	2. Take six ounces of tartaric acid, nine ounces
of bi-carbonate of soda, and nine ounces of pow-
dered arrow root; dry them separately as before.
	3. Take sixteen ounces of corn flour and dry it
well; then mix with it eight ounces bi-carbonate
of soda, and five ounces of tartaric acid. Rice
flour can be substituted for the corn flour. All
baking powders should be kept in wide-mouthed
bottles well corked, so as to exclude all air and
damp.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GEM.

		By F. A. VON MOSCHZISKER, M. D.

The brightest gem in the woman's crown—what is it?
The richest dowry, and her sweetest charm?
The loadstone irresistible, which draws
All hearts, free, willing captives after her?
The enchanter's wand, that spell-binds to her feet,
Softened to lamb, the fiercest lion's soul!
It is not youth—the fickle butterfly;
It is not beauty—the ephemeral flower;
It is not wit—too oft a poisoned dart:
It is not riches—what are they to love?
It is not power, glory, noble birth,
Nor anything the world can give or take.  What is it
	then?
I know it well, but it is hard to say,
It is the childlike singleness of heart;
The angelic purity of a virgin soul;
The queen-like majesty of womanhood;
The trinity of virgin, child and matron.
It is a heart where joys of heaven dwell,
With truest sympathy of all earth's woes;
A soul itself as pure from sinful stain,
As full of pity for her sister's failings,
A grace as modest as the violet,
Yet, like the violet, shedding sweet perfume.
A mind alike to every lot resigned—
These, and withal a something undefined,
And undefinable in mortal speech;
A nameless grace that hovers round her being
And veils her, as the halo does the moon—
A gem the brightest in a woman's crown.
	—Family Journal.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Mary Mapes Dodge, the successful
and pleasing editor of the St. Nicholas
Magazine, is convalescing from a severe at-
tack of malarial fever and diptheretic sore
throat which seriously endangered her life.
She is recruiting in the Adirondacks.
	LADY Gordon, in her letters from Egypt,
gives a most curious illustration of their
native ideas of respectability. A boy speak-
ing of another said, "he is of respectable
family, for his mother wore a cow's tail
down to her heels, and beat him well when
he told lies, or stole eggs.
	MISS Jennie S. Clark, business manager
of the "Golden Dawn," San Francisco, has
been compelled to take a respite on account
of failing health, and will spend a few
weeks on the coast of Santa Barbara. Mrs.
U. H. Potter will transact business during
her absence.
	MISS Anna C. Brackett of New York,
read a paper on The Relations of Teachers
to the Medical Profession, before the Ameri-
can Institute of Instruction on the 9th inst.,
which has called forth considerable com-
ment and aroused a new interest upon the
subject.
	MISS Kate Hillard of Brooklyn has been
lecturing in Victoria Rooms London, and
creating an interest in her favor by her bril-
liancy, wit and ingenuity, and her ex-
cellent delivery. She intends spending part
of the summer in the Isle of Wight; in Oc-
tober she will probably return to London,
and afterwards resume her field of labor in
America.
	"MISS Ella Diety, formerly of New York,
has recently achieved a decided success on
the stage in London, and has distinguished
herself in a higher capacity—as an author
and composer of music." Recently Miss Emily
Faithful gave an entertainment to the In-
dustrial and Educational Bureau, in St.
George's Hall, Langham Place, London;
when there were several pieces introduced of
her composition. "Lessons in Harmony,"
adopted from the French, with songs, etc.
	MISS De Veges, a lady of aristocratic
blood and superior education in India, thor-
oughly versed in Spanish, French and En-
glish, and who is also very beautiful, as well


as clever, with a fortune at her own disposal
amounting to 100,000 rupees, offers herself
as a lottery prize for the sum of one lac and
10,000 rupees. The conditions are 22,000
at 5 rupees each; the lottery to be drawn
at Calcutta by herself; the winner to share
the money with her hand, or half it, with-
out, reserving for herself the same right to
refuse and divide the spoils. This is a
novel way of gaining a husband.


FLORAL HINTS.

Dear Exponent:
	My poor flowers have of late been the vic-
tims of too much of each wind and sun-
shine. Large plants like dahlias, unless
snugly secured to a stake, or what is better,
one with a few limbs cut slant like arrows,
for the umbrageous top of flowers to rest
against and be tied too. Dahlias don't like
much shade but will stand quite a fierce
sunshine. But the soil should be made rich
and the plants kept well hoed and tied up,
and the blossom-buds picked when they "go
out," and you will have fine flowers.
	Pelagoniums, Geraniums, Pansies, violets,
Phlox and many other such plants, would
like a cooling shade and moist atmosphere
now, until the heated term is past. Every
florist should study the wants and habits of
their plants, that they may know how to
treat them, to enjoy their greatest beauty
and usefulness. Some seem to delight in a
hot, dry atmosphere, as, the Datura, (a white
chalice-shaped flower often five or six
inches across) Cactus, Yucca, and even some
of the Solanums, Asters, Petimas, Zennias
and others, while many families, like vio-
lets and pansies, would perish. Now the
flowers should be watched daily, and such
ones noted as you wish to gather seeds from
and save the seeds when ripe. Shade your
chamomile and keep it always moist, for it
only puts out surface roots that quickly dry
up in scorching sun and the plant dies.
The Caladiums are a most delightful family
of plants, with leaves marked and spotted
in may colors, as handsome as so many
flowers.
	Yesterday was a gala time. Hundreds of
Sunday school scholars with banners, colors
and mottoes, more than two score, marched
to the Tabernacle under charge of their
teachers and superintendent, M. P. Romney,
when they sang several stirring songs.
Prest. Snow, S. Miles and Col. A. P. Hardy
were the speakers; the last named in short
told of the hardships of the first settlers
and compared the then, with the desert in
bloom as now, stopping all too soon. The
hall was tastefully filled up with flowers and
evergreens and a green arch adorned with
flowers was  over the speakers.
							FLORA.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	AT the parting of young ladies there is
much adieu about nothing.
	FASHIONABLE young ladies, like letters,
require stamps, or the males reject them.
	WHAT part of a fish is like the end of a
book? The fin-is.
	OHIO is one of the states in which a wo-
man may make a will.  But then women
in all states have a will of their own.
	THE best thing to be done when evil
comes upon us, is not lamentation, but ac-
tion; not to sit and suffer, but to rise and
seek the remedy.
	A COVINGTON man died and they put


him on ice, but he awoke in the night and
yelled out: "Why don't you put some more
wood in that stove!'—Ex.
	THE saddest thing in life is the spectacle
afforded by a young person who has burnt
all the hair off her forehead with a hot slate
pencil, and cannot afford, to buy a row of
curls.
	THE son of a clergyman was delivering a
college valedictory, when, in pulling out
his handkerchief, he pulled out a pack of
cards. "Holloa!" he exclaimed, "I've got
my father's coat on!"


CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copics, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	gravin of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of nonsubscribers and 
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.
		EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND 
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
			Feathers, Wall Paper,
				AND 
		BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1875.			No. 7.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		THREE SABBATH MORNINGS.

Upon the new born earth the glorious sun
Of the first Sabbath rose. Around, above, beneath
Was one sweet scene of beauty, peace and joy;
All animated life, the beasts and birds, the trees
And flowers, were joined in one accord, to sing
Their Maker's praise on this the first sweet day of rest,
			Adam and Eve, whose hearts o'erflowed
With love and happiness, and praises to their
Father and their God, came forth to view
The glorious work completed. Hand in hand
They wandered 'mid the pure and holy scenes of
Edens heavenly bowers.
			But vain, all vain the effort
Of the pen to paint the picture, the mind which soars
Beyond the power of languag to portray its visions,
Fails to realize the glories of that Sabbath morn.
And now, how oft, with aching hearts in bitter
Anguish, do we ask the question—
Why could not this pure state of being last forever?
But no, it could not thus remain and God's great
Plan of being per ected, so Adam fell that
Man might be: might know both good and
Evil, might choose and win eternal life.
How often do we hear the thoughtless jest,
The harsh and cruel judgement passed
Upon the Parents of our mortal lives,
Where naught but love and gratitude should be
For those who knowing, nobly paid the price.
			Thus sin and death with their long train
Of misery crept in—all know what followed
How the earth was made to groan beneath the
Weight of crime and woe it bore, and how the
Gates of heaven were opened, and how the waters in
	mighty
Floods descended and earth received her baptism,
And her children a watery grave.
			How the one man and his family faithful to
Their God, dwelt safely in their little ark upon the
Bosom of the waters.
		Again the morning dawns upon the Sabbath day.
But oh! how changed from the first of the creation,
What must have been the feelings of Noah and his
Family as they gazed upon the ruin and desolation
Spread out on every hand?
Did their hearts not mourn for friends and kindred
Lost, ties and associations sundered, or did the
Visions of their mind expand, so they beheld the glory,
The wisdom and the love of God even in that; and
Feelings of mortality were hushed, and praise and
Prayer to the great King arose.
		Upon the cloud the covenant token between
God and man was placed, the Rainbow which in
Its radiant beauty still o'erhangs our earth,
Methinks I see them on that hushed and solemn Sabbath
Morn, kneeling around the altar which their hands
Had reared, in prayer to God, while sweet incense
From the sacrifice arose.
The sacrifice which was a type of Him whose life
Was to redeem the world from Adam's fall.

Time sped on, another people made their homes above
The graves of those who had been swept away.
For a time they dwelt in righteousness:
But Satan's hosts again gained power on earth,
And when he came, He whose coming had o'ershadowed
Earth even from the beginning came to His own, came
To redeem and lead them back to God, they knew Him not,
		He the meek and lowly Jesus went forth among
Them, healing the sick, speaking words of comfort to the
Sorrowful, and teaching pure principles of righteousness
And truth, yet in the hardness of their hearts did
They revile and persecute Him, even spit upon Him.
He would have blessed them as no other one could bless.

By and bye the cry went forth to crucify Him—
Crucify the Son of God.
		Is there a pain that's deeper, keener, deadlier,
Than all other woe that mortal be ings feel,
It is to have one we have known and called by
Friendship's sacred [--] betray our trust:
By such a one was Christ betrayed and with a kiss,
Which should be brought by loves [--] holy token
		They nailed Him to the cross alone, forsaken,
In that bitter hour by all, and for a moment even by His
		God.
Yet deep and clear His dying words came forth,
"Forgive them Father for they know not what they do,"

[Column 2]
	The sun in shame and sorrow hid his face,
And darkness deep and terrible spread o'er the earth,
Fearfully the lightning gleamed, the thunder's dreadful
Voice was heard, and Earth was shaken to
Her centre, then horror struck they gazed and
Knew what they had done.
Then when that fearful scene was o'er they who
Had loved Him well, bore Him away and with
Bitter tears and lamentations laid Him in the
Sepulcher.
		When the third morning dawned.
And the Sun arose his beams were faint as though
He thought earth needed not his light
For Christ the Son of God, the Savior of the
World had risen from the dead.
									Hope.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		AN ESSAY ON PRAYER.

	What is prayer?—Most of us can answer
that question, it is the means ordained by
our Father in heaven whereby we can ask
for and receive blessings, to acknowledge
our faults and obtain forgiveness, to goto
Him when in trouble and get our wounded
spirits healed. Prayer is the greatest con-
solation the people of God have, for true it
is we are a tried people, and have great
things to contend with, it is therefore nec-
essary we should pray often that the good
spirit may reign predominant. We have
two spirits hovering around us, the good
and evil, each trying to obtain possession of
our minds, when the good spirit takes the
lead, why then the evil one has to leave, for
both cannot work together in unison. We
should endeavor therefore to always keep
the Spirit of God within us, and allow our-
selves to be led and guided by its dictates;
if we do not the consequence is it will not
remain, for the Lord says "My Spirit cannot
dwell in tabernacles that are unclean or im-
pure." Therefore my sisters it is necessary
we should guard our every thought, deed
and action, strive to do right as far as we
can, and pray for strength to resist evil; if
we do this, we need not fear but what the
Holy Spirit will be a frequent visitor; it
will prove the best company we can desire,
it will store our minds with good and use-
ful knowledge, which if put in practice will
bring forth fruit that will prove satisfactory
to ourselves and those whom we associate
with. Then let us not feel ashamed to ac-
knowledge to our brethren and sisters and
the world even that we have frequent com-
munications with our Heavenly Father but
feel proud that we have the privelege of so
doing.
	I will relate a circumstance that occurred
to me in connection with prayer about two
weeks ago, I started from home with the
intention of attending retrenchment meet-
ing in this Ward; on leaving the house a re-
mark was made to me which hurt my feel-
ings; I walked on a short distance, a spirit
that is not of God took possession of me,
and whispered do not go to meeting, and
in my weakness I gave way to its influence
and turned back. Did I feel happy and
contented? No, indeed. I felt wretched,
my conscience smote me the moment I en-
tered the house, I endeavored to drive
away that feeling of remorse and sought
amusement in music, but it had no charm
as at other times; after a while I went to
my room and asked God to forgive me and
take away the evil spirit that had prompted
me to do wrong. Did the Lord answer my

[Column 2]
prayer? Yes, immediately, I felt better be-
fore arising from my knees and resolved
in my own mind never again to give way to
the promptings of the evil one. I mention
this my sisters, as a testimony that the
Lord is ever ready and willing to forgive
and bless us if we will only humble our-
selves sufficiently to obtain forgiveness.
In speaking of prayer, it is necessary we
should exercise faith, for without it praying
would not avail us much, when we ask for
a blessing we must have faith that we will
get it; and sometimes we ask for things and
may probably exercise faith and do not get
what we ask for, we feel hurt and think the
Lord would not hear us. It is not so, they
are withheld by reason that the Lord con-
siders it not good for us to have them.
Then let us not feel discouraged or cast
down when our prayers are not answered,
but always bear in mind whatever happens
it is all for the best, for God's thoughts are
not as man's thoughts, nor His ways as
man's ways. My sisters ever strive for the
Holy Spirit that you may continue to be
humble and prayerful is my earnest desire
in the name of Jesus. Amen.
			  MISS LAURA CUSHING.
	Aug. 2nd, 1875.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE IS talk of a woman's paper being
started at Larrmie, Wy. That is right, la-
dies, step forward and persevere in every
good work.
	GEN. SHERIDAN, who lately visited this
city arrived in San Francisco on the
23rd of Aug., where he was received with
great demonstrations of military honor, the
streets being crowded with people anxious
to witness the reception.
	THE AMERICAN rifle team that visited
Europe recently, arrived safely in New
York city on the 21st of August.  They have
been feted and feasted everywhere abroad.
They have gained considerable notoriety
away, and return home to find their friends
ready to welcome them with loud cheers and
deomonstations of honor.
	KING KALUKA held a meeting at his
palace in Honolulu recently, to urge upon
his people and particularly all about his pal-
ace, to reform in the use of liquors.  He had
seen the evil influences resulting from the
use of ardent spirits, and hoped, by begin-
ning in his own palace to protest against it;
the good influence would spread throughout
the land.  He did not wish to command
any, but desired to see this evil checked;
a pledge was prepared and all were invited
to sign it.
	GEORGE W. WILLIS, a son of the poet N.
P. Willis, was recently married to Miss Em-
ma Miles, whose father, Mr. William H.
Miles, is a well known resident of this city.
The ceremony took place in Brooklyn, N. Y.
and was pronounced by its reverend pastor
Henry Ward Beecher.  It was noticed that
the bride was required to give her promise
to "love and honer" but the "obey" was
omitted. Beecher is said to make this 
omission always in performing the marriage
ceremony.  He says he knows the women
would not keep that promise if they should 
make it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Associations,
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Aug. 14th, 1875, was characterized with
much of the spirit of the present reforma-
tion. The minutes from the different wards
were spirited and encouraging, the speak-
ers seemed filled with light and intelligence
from on high; and in all their exhortations
sought to inspire others with an interest in
those things which are most conducive to
union and peace.
	Minutes of a Retrenchment meeting held
at Payson City, Aug. 12th, 1875. After the 
usual exercises and reading of the minutes,
Mrs. Jane Cowens, Mrs. Almeda M. Snider,
Misses Ida Coombs, Jenny Winsley, Phebe
Davis, Mary Curtis, Ida Richmond, Alice
Courts, Tishy Davis, Martha Fairbanks, An-
na Searle, Mary J. Done, Lucinda Win-
ward, Mary Fairbanks and Eliza Jones, each
made a few remarks; after which Presi-
dent Miss Jane Daniels said we had made a
good commencement and hoped we would
prosper, said we would accomplish much
good in attending these meetings. Meet-
ing then adjourned for one week after sing-
ing and prayer.
			MARTHA FAIRBANKS,
			ANNA SEARLE SEC'YS.
	We are prospering and hope to continue
tinue so. We are gathering straw
and we hope soon to be engaged in
straw braiding. We feel to encourage all
the Retrenchment meetings throughout the
Territory and hope we will soon all be en-
gaged in HOME INDUSTRIES. Wishing you
success in your endeavors to do the will of
God, we subscribe ourselves daughters of
Zion in the Gospel.
	Minutes of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association of the First Ward. Af-
ter the opening exercises and reading of
the minutes an essay was read by Mrs. A.
Fletcher. President Mrs. Sarah Graham ad-
dressed the meeting in a very pleasing and
encouraging spirit, she was followed by her
counselors Mrs. A. Campbell and Mrs. J.
Van Tassell.
	Mrs. M. G. Chase President of the Re-
lief Society spoke in a very impressive
manner; after which Miss S. Smith, Miss A.
Adams and Mrs. A. Fletcher expressed their
feelings in an earnest and humble spirit.
Mrs. M. Hawkins bore her testimony also;
Mrs. Shipp from the Eleventh Ward then
spoke upon the subject of Retrenchment
and her idea of woman and her work; also
spoke of obedience. Superintendent Mrs.
E. Higgs also spoke upon obedience. Bish-
op J. Warburton expressed his satisfaction
with the improvement we were making and
desired us to persevere in the path of duty.
He made some excellent remarks in regard
to the United Order, said it was the only
thing that would do away with selfishness;
asked the people if they were ready for re-
baptism and spoke of round dances as be-
ing against counsel.
	The President Mrs. Sarah Graham then
called for a vote to see who would refrain
from round dancing, and the majority re-
sponded. With the usual ceremonies
meeting adjourned.
			S. SMITH, A ADAMS, SECY'S.
				MANTI, July 22nd, 1875.
DEAR SISTER SNOW:
	Pardon the liberty I take in addressing
you, but owing to the limited time you
spent here I was unable to say much in re-
[Column 2]
gard to silk raising, and knowing that you
and your co-laborers are doing everything
in your power to establish this most useful
branch of industry among the sisters in
Zion, I thought a few words from one who
has been accustomed to feeding worms and
making silk from her childhood might not
be amiss.
	I have had a few worms for the last three
years, but I have not taken sufficient to 
make a business of it yet, nevertheless my
experience proved conclusively that, if we
immediately take measures to procure mul-
berry trees and put them where they will
be most secure from frost and work with a
will, it will yet be a source of untold wealth
for Utah. There are quite a number here
who have a few of the trees on their lots,
and I have requested them to save the cut-
tings. If we can procure a suitable place
to set them out this fall, we shall send to
the City for a large quantity. Since writ-
ing the above I have applied to our County
Judge for a half block owned by the County
in the south eastern part of town, in a very
favorable locality as regards frosts. The
Judge could not say whether the County
would sell it, but thought perhaps the So-
ciety might obtain a lease of it for a speci-
fied time. If we can get it and are success-
ful in getting the trees started we can make
a very fair beginning with what trees we
have in the gardens. If you have any
suggestions to make, or a word of counsel to
offer it will be most thankfully received. I
think your visit to our place will result in
great good to the sisters here, I can already
see a marked change, and think we are
awaking to a sense of our duty.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
				REBECCA WAREHAM,
						R. S. Society.
	WEST JORDAN WARD, Aug. 13th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Please permit me to say that I have been
a member of our society since the date of
its organization and have perused with
pleasure your invaluable paper, have been
delighted with reading the letters from dif-
ferent settlements through the Territory;
hearing how their societies were getting
along. I have looked the papers over
and over again to try to find a letter
from our society but failed. Ignorant as I
am I will drop you a few lines. We held
our meeting on Sunday, the eighth of the
present month. Bishops Samuel Wooley
and A. Gardner were present, they gave us
good instruction on the principles of the
gospel and more especially on raising our
children. Bishop A. Gardner gave us
great praise, said we had taken a great
load from him in taking care of the poor;
told us to press forward and we should be
blest. Sister Cooper, the first counselor
then thanked them, and herself and a few
other sisters bore their testimonies and the
meeting was adjourned. Prayer by Sister
M. Turner.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
						R. M. W.
	17th WARD, S. L. CITY, Aug. 13, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Semi-Annual Meeting was held at
the residence of Mrs. Susan E. Smith, on 
Thursday, the 5th day of August, and not-
withstanding the extreme heat of the
weather, the attendance was very large,
every block of the Ward being represented
by its Teacher; something that has not oc-
curred in many months.
	Our Treasurer Sister Eliza A. Felt, was
taken from us by Death on the 19th of June
[Column 3]
which was severely felt by all in the So-
ciety, as well as those who ever had the
pleasure of her acquaintance. She had
faithfully discharged the duties of Treasur-
er for over seven years, and genuine sor-
row was felt at her death.
	Our President Mrs. Hyde, motioned at
our last meeting that the Secretary write a
few lines to the EXPONDNT to let them and
others know that we are doing all in our
power to aid in rolling on the great Work of
the Latter Days, said motion was passed by
a unanimous vote. As a Society we are
busy making quilts for the coming winter,
and the visiting committee who have just
finished one, are making another for the
Temple.
	At a late meeting Mrs. Harriet Doremus
was elected Treasurer of the society in
place of Sister Felt. We all feel well and
hope to be worthy to remain your sisters in
the Gospel.
		MRS. M. N. HYDE, Prest.,
			MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secy.
		SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT.
Received in donations half-year... $ 80 00
Disbursed to the needy.................  104 07
Articles sold.................................     31 00
At interest....................................    418 00
Cash remaining in the Treasury...      17 95
Mdse............................................      80 00
			MRS. HARRIET DOREMUS, Treas.
				MANTI CITY, Aug. 16th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The following resolutions were read and
adopted by the Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Society, organized at Manti Aug.
14th, 1875.
	Whereas realizing the importance of a
correct training of our influence as young
ladies of Manti in directing the actions of
society, and whereas, we realize we are in
a great measure the architects of our own
fortunes for weal or woe in the community,
and the necessity of our preparing our-
selves for more responsible duties in life,
	Therefore be it resolved that we form
ourselves into a society of Mutual Improve-
ment for the cultivation of our mind in lit-
erature, religion and science, and using our
talents in the noble purpose of benefiting
mankind and especially our own sex.
	Twenty-five young ladies were enrolled,
of which were chosen,
	Miss Hannah Billings President,
	  "	Dortea Hansen,     }
	  "	Marrion Grier,      }
	  "	Hattie Moffit,       }
	  "	Christena Mason, }		Counselors.
	  "	Mary E. Vorhees,  }
	  "	Rensie Anderson, }
	  "	Maggie Reid,        }
	  "	Mary E. Snow Treasurer.
					BELLE MOFFIT, Sec'y.


A FEW DAY'S JOURNEY.

	What a difference a few miles will make
in surrounding scenery as you travel along,
and what is still more curious difference al-
so in climate, temperature and growth of
vegetation. Taking a north westerly course
from Fillmore, our route lay for the most
part through a vast tract of land covered
with grease wood, a miniature forest, in-
terspersed with broken glades grassy and
green, with now and then a flower lifting
its modest head to grace the beauty of the
scene; groups of trees, hill and dales, make
up the resemblance.


[Column 1]
	From this we passed over what is called
Rush Lake, now evidently completely
changed from what it was when first named,
as there is but little moisture remaining,
only a damp, rough and barren piece of
ground, with here and there bunches of de-
caying rushes. Here I met with a beauti-
ful plant growing near the outer edges,
which closely resembled the common dew
plant, though much more beautiful, having
very large handsome leaves and a small
starry flower.
	Crossing some sand hills we had a smooth
road for a few miles, then rocky black vol-
canic rock, which is considered very good
for building purposes; being porous it is not
apt to be so damp as the more solid material.
On our left, a huge mountain uprose, appar-
ently composed principally of sand stone;
the top of which the wind had swept into
queer cone shaped hills and hollows. Pres-
ently we came in sight of a beautiful lake,
on whose broad expanse sky, mountain
and tree were reflected as in a mirror; geese
and ducks, with other wild fowls were spor-
tively dipping and diving; who can com-
plain of want of water here? said we, but
alas! our lovely lake grew and less as 
we approached, until our eyes beheld (what
is called hereabouts) Mud Lake, and our
trees were sage brush, our water fowl a few
scattered rocks and stones. This so called
lake, is a large clear spot entirely destitute
of vegetation; varying in width from one
and a half, to two miles, and from six to
eight miles in length; it is of a chalky
whiteness interspersed with spots of slate
color, which combined, give the illusive ap-
pearance of water when seen at a certain
distance; very soft all seasons of the year,
and impassable in very wet weather; com-
posed of sand and chalk mixed with various
mineral substances of a soft nature. Gov-
ernment has not as yet surveyed this por-
tion of  country, and we know not what may
lie beneath this extraordinary composition.
The road at last brought us to another for-
est of grease wood, which appeared delight-
ful, being of a fresh green, exceedingly
restful to the eye after enduring the glare
of the sunlight on the mysterious Mud
Lake. Here on the banks of the Sevier
River are the remains of Deseret City, where
an immense amount of labor was expended
years ago which proved an entire failure;
the Sevier being an exceedingly treacher-
ous stream, and the people unacquainted
with any plan by which to secure a firm
bulwark against the water, unlike the little
animal called the beaver, which I am told
has formed dams at some point or points,
farther on toward the river's source. This
place is thirty-five or forty miles from Fil-
more. From this to Oak Creek, a distance
of about twenty-five miles north of East,
our road passed through sand hills and hol-
lows; within six miles of Oak Creek the
wind comes down through a gap in the
mountains and passing through a gentle
hollow, plays fantastic tricks with the sand
alternately tearing down, and building up;
scooping out and separating the white sand
from the black in a curious manner, form-
ing hills, the size of a small log cabin, only
a few rods distance from each other.
	Oak Creek is a small settlement nestling
closely to the mountain side, corn and su-
gar cane grow well here, with plenty of
vegetables; the inhabitants have built a
bridge over the Sevier river so as to cut off
some miles of travel to Sanpete Co., where
they go yearly to exchange corn and mo-
lasses, for wheat and flour. Fish in abun-
dance is caught from the river.
	The people are evidently wide awake in
their interests for the St. George Temple;

[Column 2]
The widow came also with her mite; they
gave liberally according to their means.
Bro. John Dudson of this place is making a
collection of ancient relics, found in plow-
ing his land; they are quite interesting.
More anon.		As ever yours,
						A. B. C.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE KINDERGARTEN—UTILIZING
			PLAY.

	The desideratum with intelligent and
thoughtful trainers of these active little
folk—it being the main point, that they
are always doing something—is to make
what they do tell to advantage in their un-
folding ; to educate them not so much
by books and homilies as by practical illus-
tration and example adapted to their un-
derstanding and always nicely graduated to
that. "A child at play is histrionic. He
personates characters with costume and
mimic gesture. He also undertakes to rep-
resent whatever thing interests his mind by
embodiment of it in outward form." But
child's play does not end in itself, and Froe-
bel has taken full advantage of this under-
lying fact of childish being. Children, as
we all notice, delight in movement; they ob-
serve keenly; they also invent and construct
—all this naturally and spontaneously. The
child that does not love play is not, cannot
be a healthy child. But the "plays" of
Froebel's Kindergarten are with profound
philosophy systematized and possess a far
deeper significance than to while away the
time.
	The location of the Kindergarten should
be carefully selected, should be as little pub-
lic as possible, the building so constructed
and arranged as to meet the requirements
of health, freedom and comfort, in order
that the children may have undisturbed en-
joyment of their own little world. The
hall itself must be light and airy, spacious
enough to afford room for marching, danc-
ing and plays, especially in rainy and in-
clement seasons. There should also be
a large and shady yard or garden for
frequent out-door exercises. It is very
desirable that the hall, besides its necessary
furniture of large, low tables and benches,
blackboards, charts, etc., should be adorned
with flowers and pictures, rendered attrac-
tive in every way and calculated to call forth
and minister to the growing taste and sense
of beauty in the child. The hall, with its
appurtenances, should always be kept in
proper condition—so far as practicable by
the little ones themselves—that habits of
cleanliness and order may be early instilled
and naturally developed. A piano-forte is
an invaluable adjunct of the Kindergarten,
of which music and singing form one of the
main features.
	Leaping on tables and over benches, rac-
ing, whooping, tearing of clothes, indeed
all the rudeness and boisterousness insepara-
ble from undisciplined natures, whether
youthful or adult, are "ruled out" of the
well-ordered Kindergarten, from the fact
that music accompanies the gymnastics and
intersperses all the exercises, and from the
further fact that so much of healthful free-
dom and variety of occupation are afforded.
The administration of the true Kindergar-
ten being guided by love, gentleness and
well-regulated and fixed purpose, conduct-
ed free of all needless restraint, and still
avoiding, on the other hand, confusion and
disorder, there naturally springs up on the
part of the child a feeling of delight and
affection toward the teacher and toward one
another.
	It is indispensable that the teacher be al-

[Column 2]
ways the first on the spot, not only for the
purpose of getting everything in readiness
for the operations of the day, but also that
her own mind and thoughts be perfectly
calm and composed, for she must feel her-
self for the time being at least, the little
one's truest friend. The children on enter-
ing are expected to be clean and tidy, the
teacher—however ngracious this portion
of her task may possibly be—also discour-
aging all extravagance or gaudiness of at-
tire with which some foolish, short sighted
mothers delight to disfigure their offspring.
Of all resorts, a hall of learning should be
the last for such displays of fancy, and lit-
tle children should not be made to feel their
inequalities of social position by means of
them. The teacher welcomes each little
one alike with a smile and friendly greet-
ing, instructing them by example to return
the same, and at the appointed time order
is called. Then position; simultaneous ris-
ing and sitting without noise, all of which
requires quite a little time for drilling.
	Singing can be conducted by placing the
children in rows according to size and sex.
Then come various exercises alternating on
various days. As soon as the teacher ob-
serves that the pupils grow fatigued with
any one thing and become restless, the sub-
ject of the exercise should be changed rath-
er than let the children give up their occu-
pation regrettingly, thus retaining within
them a longing for "what comes next," and
not feel bored or worried, which is a sure
way to make them lose interest. The ma-
terials (or Toys) pertaining to a successful
management of the institution are many
and various, but all of a character to gradu-
ally develop the infantile faculties in com-
paring and organizing figures of all kinds
according to the laws of form and color,
either by imitation, or in already advanced
stages, by their own unaided invention.
And here it may be remarked that all occu-
pations in the Kindgergarten are called
"plays," and the materials for occupation
"gifts." These I shall explain in a third
and, for the present, concluding article.
				    CAMILLA C. COBB.


WOMAN'S RECORD. 

	MRS. William C. Peck of New Haven,
sued that city for damages to the amount of
$5,000 for injuries received in consequence
of a defective side-walk.
	LADY Bulwer is spoken of as having very
beautiful violet eyes with black lashes, and
the most childishly innocent expression; and
to her is attributed the inspiration of many
of the beautiful poems of her husband
"Owen Meredith."
	Mrs. Lucy Stone has suggested that the
President of the United States, shall at the
Centennial, on the 4th of July 1876 lead on-
to the platform Mrs. Lucretia Mott, Lydia
M. Child, and Frances D. Gage, under a
black flag—commemmorating the fact that
women are ranked with idiots, felons and
ignorant men.
	MISS Mason and Miss Hamilton of
the graduating class in Vermont Universi-
ty have been elected to membership on ac-
count of their superior scholarship to the
Phil Beta Keppa Society. Professor Pea-
body of Chicago, President of the Alumni
Association hails this event as the
beginning of a new era; and he remarked
they had shown themselves thinkers, and
referred to the Alumni as their brothers
and warmly welcomed them to a place
among the Alumni. He congratulated the
institution on this progressive step.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
[---], $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 1, 1875.


[Column 1]
			A SHORT EXCURSION
	On the morning of the 27th of July, on my
way to Box Elder Co., I was joined by Sister J.
S. Richards at Ogden, and, exchanging the U.
C. for the U.N., arrived in Willard City in due
time.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society—
had a pleasant time, and, at half past 7 in a
general meeting, organized the young ladies
and girls in a Retrenchment Association, and
met with them on the following day at 2 p. m.
and instructed them in their duties and privi-
leges in an organized capacity. On that eve-
ning Sister Richards returned to Ogden; and
the next morning I went to Brigham City.
	Just after having been comfortably seated in
the house of my brother, Pres. L. Snow, I was
startled by a tremendous report of artillery,
which probably would have shaken a moder-
ately sized house into tremors, but, happily, the
one in which I was ensconced was proof against
that weakness. Surprised rather than terrified,
I hastily enquired to know what was up, and
was quietly informed that the warlike dis-
charge was in honor of my arrival, but, before
my "bump of esteem" had time perceptibly to
enlarge, I recollected that other ladies had been
announced, who should have accompanied me
but had been unavoidably detained, and the
thought suggested itself that, in all proba-
bility, a large portion of that thundering honor
was designed for them, and I concluded that,
had the master of that ceremony been notified
that I was a lone representative of the ladies of
Salt Lake City, he would only have discharged
one piece, and saved all extra ammunition for
other occasions. However, I accepted the dig-
nified expression, but a higher honor awaited
me.
	After this excitement had subsided, I was
escorted by ladies and gentlemen, to the Court
House where a very interesting exhibition—one
of more than ordinary importance, had been
gotten up in honor of the ever memorable 24th
of July, and was preserved intact awaiting my
arrival.
	As we approached the entrance of the Court
Yard, we were greeted with "WELCOME" so
conspicuously formed of evergreens on a white
ground, over the gate, and under a beautiful
arch of the same symbols, as to be distinctly
read in the distance and, as we passed through
we were gretted with "THE UNITED OR-
DER," under another arch surrounding the
steps leading into the Court House; and far-
ther on, "HOME INDUSTRY FOREVER."
	We then entered upon the extensive display,
consisting of choice specimens of Home Indus-
tries from the many departments in successful
operation in that thriving city, tastefully ar-
ranged, and filling every apartment up and
[Column 2]
down stairs. Already, thirty departments are
combined with a Superintendent over each—
these Superintendents all meet at slated times
to be farther instructed, as this great work pro-
gresses. I was informed that three depart-
ments were soon to be added, to wit, a tin-ware
establishment—one ladies' department for straw
manufacture, and one for Artificial Flowers.
Here, no complaint is heard for want of work—
this United Order furnishes employment for
all that want work, and pay from any or all of
these departments, with a specified percentage
from the Mercantile to supply necessary gro-
ceries, &c. But I must pass on from this im-
portant subject.
	At 2 p. m. a large congregation, in the capaci-
ty of a Relief Society, convened in the spacious
Bowery, presided over by Mrs. Harriet A.
Snow. Before the close of the meeting I re-
quested all those wearing home-made hats and
bonnets to signify it by rising to their feet. It
was judged by Pres. Snow, Bishop Nichols and
other brethren present, that two-thirds, at
least, of the congregation arose, including all
of the brethren.
	An expression from the young ladies was
called for, to ascertain if they wished to be or-
ganized into an Association for mental, moral
and spiritual improvement—decided in the af-
firmative, and a meeting was appointed for
that purpose, and all young husbands, beaux.
boys and parents, as well as young ladies and
girls, were invited to attend.
	The next morning (Friday) Sister Richards
rejoined me, and that evening the large public
Hall in the Court House was filled, (the speci-
mens on exhibition having been removed) and,
after appropriate instructions, I organized the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association with
President, six Counselors, Secretary and Assist-
ant Secretary. Over one hundred and fifty
were received by unanimous vote as members.
	Saturday afternoon the brethren held a gen-
eral Priesthood meeting of Box Elder Co., at
which Pres. Snow called for an expression to
ascertain how many were wearing home-made
hats, including fur, felt and straw. I was told
that there were not more than six exceptions,
which speaks well for the brethren of that
County. Many of them wear their home fac-
tory clothes summer and winter.
	Saturday evening Sister Richards returned
home, and Sunday morning, by kind invita-
tion, I went, with others, by carriage to the
tent village of the Shoshone Indians, whom
Brother Hill had been instructing in the culti-
vation of the ground, they being very desirous
of earning their subsistence and learning the
arts of civilization. When we arrived at the
location, we learned that their Bowery was
occupied by other Indians, just arrived from
the North, demanding baptism at the hand of
Bro. Hill, who was then giving them instruc-
tions necessary before performing the sacred or-
dinance. They were said to be from four to
five hundred in number, and I never saw a
more circumspect and attentive audience.
With the exception of the Sioux, these are the
finest looking Indians I have ever seen.
	After the meeting was dismissed, we all went
to the river and witnessed the baptism of per-
haps twenty braves—the brethren having left
an appointment in Bear River City on our
way to Shoshone town, we left Bro. Hill bap-
tizing, and three others confirming, as they
came forward, one by one, in perfect order. It
was an interesting and impressive scene—a liv
ing testimonial of the power of God operating
on the heart of the wild savage of the forest;
for, let it be remembered that these Lamanites
had not been sought after, nor preached to, by
the Latter-day Saints—they were instructed
[Column 3]
from on high, and the knowledge communi-
cated to them, without human instructors, to
whom they should go to receive the ordinances
of the Gospel of Christ.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting in
Bear River City, the rest of the company re-
turned to Brigham City—I stopped and met
with the Relief Society in the evening and
returned on Monday. Tuesday at 2. p. m., the
"Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association of
Brigham City" met in the public hall, and had
a very interesting time. The number of its
members was increased to over two hundred,
and it certainly gives promise of becoming an
instrument of great good for Zion.
	On Wednesday, by invitation of Bro. Jenson,
presiding Elder in Little Valley, I went to
Mantua, accompanied by Sisters H. A and M.
Snow and Sister Jenson—met with the Relief
Society in the morning, and in the afternoon,
organized the young ladies.—Thursday attended
fast meeting, and next day Sister H. A. Snow
and I took the morning train for Deweyville,
where we met with the sisters and assisted
Pres. Dewey in organizing a Relief Society,
and also organized a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association, and returned by the evening
train.
	In all our meetings, deep interest was mani-
fested by the sisters. and also by the brethren
who honored us with their presence, while we
earnestly tried to impress the necessity of
awaking to an active sense of our duties and
responsibilities as women of God, and exert a
united influence in promoting the interests of
Zion—in becoming truly a "peculiar people"
and exhibit the pattern of heavenly things in-
stead of the fashions of a corrupt generation.
Home Industries, as the only means of becom-
ing self-sustaining, was every where made a 
prominent subject. and considering the general
scarcity of money, I received liberal donations
from the Relief Societies of Brigham, Willard,
Bear River and Mantua Cities, and from indi-
viduals, in behalf of the Deseret Silk Associa-
tion.
	I have inadvertently omitted mention of a
pleasant meeting with the sisters at Three
Mile Creek, on the 30th, when a Branch of the
R. Society was organized. for the first time—
they having been previously connected with
that in Brigham City, over which Sister Har-
riet C. Snow presides.
	With a fervent prayer that the blessing of
God may attend the efforts of each organization
which has for its object the purifying and es-
tablishment of Zion, I close this hasty sketch.
				ELIZA R SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, August 12th, 1875.


WHO IS RICH?

	A cultivated and refined imagination is the
greatest source of pure enjoyment  Wanting
this, persons may be possessed of wealth un-
limited and surrounded by all things cheerful
and beautiful, yet pass along without music in
their hearts or sunshine in their lives, because
of their inability to comprehend the true value
of the blessings vouchsafed; or (to a happify-
ing extent) the magnanimity and excellence of
the bestower of all good.
	But to those who have the faculty of appre-
ciation full and improved, there is no bound to
innocent and intelligent pleasure. For such it
seems the world itself was formed. All works
of art, the most magnificent structures, the
boldest attempts at imitation of the inimitable
—and nature's self, her hights and depths with
all that they contain, are food for their deft
souls to feast upon. Not sight alone, but every
sense is gratified through the abundant mea-


sures heaven ordains. And not alone has
grandeur or great worth, for them, the power to
charm; things of the least import are worthy
their attentive thought. The humblest mani-
festations of the matchless wisdom of Omnipo-
tence, have means wherewith to please, aston-
ish and draw forth adoration.
	A floating cloud, a leaf, a ray of light; the
streamlet's ripple or the winds soft sigh; and
myriads of kindred sights and sounds serve
each to afford its portion of delight, by which,
with studious and reflective thought, long trains
of happy, useful days are filled.
	There are loftier pleasures still, which are se-
cured or lost through the same medium  Smiles,
loving words or acts, the dear, sweet delicacies
and higher courtesies of life, calculated to serve
so effectually in smoothing the rough places,
softening many a hard lot and lightening many
a heavy burden, are all lost to the suspicious,
unreasoning, inconsiderate being who fancies
every soul as sordid and selfish as itself, and
believes its coarse, unfriendly ways more hon-
est than the kind and gentle manner of the
generous and humane.
	Yet to one possessing inherent gratefulness of
heart with ambition to improve the natural
gifts, the most sacred bliss that mortals can en-
joy arises from the holy sentiments, love and
trust and kind appreciation; which, fashioned
into speech and action, form rich embodiments
of thoughts sublime.
	Nothing adds so much to individual happi-
ness as the feeling of grateful appreciation; and
nothing can be offered in return for obligations
more gratifying than the manifestations of it.
	There is even more satisfaction in contem-
plating the divine works in the formation of
man; his character and attributes, than in
those of nature. And were this done more ex-
tensively and thoroughly than it is, and more
genuine appreciation shown to real worth
though it might be surrounded by disadvanta-
geous ciucumstances—and not so much fawn-
ing and flattery lavished upon worldly wit and
wealth though coupled with evil—the world
would, without doubt, be blest with more true
men and women than it knows anything of to-
day.
	The sin of ingratitude the Lord has pro-
nounced a grievous sin. But how shall grati-
tude exist without a realizing sense of benefits
received! It becomes, therefore, a direct reli-
gious duty, as well as a principle of good taste
and judgment to cultivate an appreciative dis-
position. They are rich who can appreciate
and enjoy the blessings which the Almighty
administers to His believing children.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. M. E. Churchill from San Francisco,
gave us a call on Wednesday, August 15th. She
is here for a short time to write a chapter on
Salt Lake, in a new book she is about to pub-
lish; and also to canvass for her last work "Lit-
tle Sheaves.”
	THE DESERET University opened its regular
session Monday, Aug. 23rd. Prof. J. R. Park
President of the Institution, F. M. Bishop Pro-
fessor of sciences, Prof. K. G. Maeser theory and
practice of teaching, Joseph Toronto assistant
in mathematics. Incorporated with this in-
stitution is the teachers Normal School, Supt.
O. H. Riggs having charge of this department.
	ELDER ALBERT Carrington, wife and son
left home Aug. 25th, for England, where Elder
Carrington is to preside, relieving Elder Joseph
F. Smith who will return home this fall. It is
expected Elder Smith will sail from Liverpool
with a company of saints Sept. 15th. We most

[Column 2]
heartily wish Elder Carrington and family a
safe and pleasant journey to their destination.
	MONDAY, Aug. 30th, Miss M. E. Cook will
re-open her Graded School in the Social Hall.
This lady has just returned from a short visit
to the Eastern states, bringing with her, her
mother and little nephew. We welcome Mrs.
Cook to our mountain home, hoping that
she may find the climate congenial to her deli-
cate health, and advantages sufficient to induce
her to make Salt Lake her future home.
	WE WERE favored with a call recently, from
Dr. Mary E, Walker of Washington, the lady
whose peculiar style of dress has attracted so
much attention. She was accompanied by
Mrs. Gen. C. A. Van Cort, one of the Vice
Presidents and a member of the Executive
Committee of the Female Medical College,
New York City. Both these ladies express great
interest in "Woman's Work," and are devoting
their lives and faculties to the improvement of
the condition of woman according to their ideas
of progression. Dr. Walker, while here, de-
livered a lecture on "Cairo and the Pyramids."
She is pleasing in her address, and as modest
in manner as ladies who dress "a la mode."
	THE SILK culture is receiving special atten-
tion, and it has been positively demonstrated
that it may be made a success, if proper atten-
tion is given to its management. Mrs. Dr.
Dunyon has clearly illustrated this by example;
and in various parts of the Territory there have
been similar results. The next meeting of
those interested in this very important branch
of HOME INDUSTRIES will be held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Zina D. Young, three blocks
south of the Eagle Gate, on Wednesday, Sept.
1st, at 5 o'clock p.m.; all who wish to obtain
information in regard to silk worms, mulberry
trees, etc., are invited to attend.
	We have on hand several articles we are un-
able to publish on account of space. One from
Richfield, "Honor to the Memory of Pres.
Joseph A. Young," by Mrs. F. Anderson, Pip-
sey Papers by Mary, "Token of Respect" A Poem
by A. S. Armstrong, Extracts from a discourse
delivered by Elder J. F. Wells, Thirteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Aug. 19th, reported
by W. East. From the Seventeenth Ward a
Tribute of respect and a poem dedicated to
Mrs. E. A. Felt and read before the Semi-An-
nual Meeting by Mrs. G. A. Alder. Another
from the Seventeenth Ward, a farewell to Mrs.
R. M. Carrington, in the form of a surprise
party and pleasant re-union, and a very pretty
poem, appropriate to the occasion, by Mrs. G.
A. Alder.
	THE EDUCATIONAL Excursion  to Lake
Point, Aug. 13th, was a most delightful affair
until about 4 o'clock, while out upon the Lake,
the "Prince and Power of the air," perhaps
thinking we all were too happy, blew up a terri-
ble gale, which gave some of the party a new
experience of sailing on the water. From the
extreme heights of gaiety on deck, etc., the
company were removed to the depths of sorrow
and the lower story of the boat. However, all
came safely to land, and three hearty cheers
were given to Captain Douris at the landing for
the efficient manner in which he managed the
boat during the storm. Altogether the party
was a success and will be remembered as afford-
ing many pleasing remniscences of the day.


SARAH A. Hobart, of Freeport Maine,
has given to the American Colonization So-
ciety $5,000, and $2,000 each to the Board
of Foreign Missions, Tract Society,  Home
Missionary Society, and Bible Society, all
Ameaican institutions.


For the EXPONENT.
		RETRENCHMENT.

	As I am no speaker I feel impressed to put
a few of my thoughts on paper, taking re-
trenchment for my subject. The word re-
trenchment has a greater meaning than
many of us realize. It embraces all that is
Godly and all that is necessary for the sal-
vation and perfection of the daughters of
Zion. Pres. Young says the retrenchment
girls can do, what he cannot do; this is say-
ing a great deal, and I think we should be
encouraged to accomplish what is required
at our hands. There is a great responsibil-
ity rests upon our shoulders. Who are the
ones to carry out the purposes of the Al-
mighty? Is it those who follow the fash-
ions of Babylon and who have not the spir-
it of God in their hearts? No, it is the re-
trenchment girls who are now scorned by
those who do not know and understand our
aims, nor what we are striving to do; but
let us not be discouraged for we know we
are carrying out the requirements of hea-
ven. God and His holy angels are on our
side and we have no need to fear. We
should be proud that we have the privilege
given us to take part in so great a work.
	Let us not be ashamed of our religion in
whatsoever circumstances we may be
placed. If we are thrown in the com-
pany of outsiders, let us set an example
worthy of imitation, standing firm and
unshaken in the cause of truth, that
they who fight against it may be put to
shame. Let our motto be "The kingdom
of God or nothing."
	We have a wide field before us, and no
time to spare or spend foolishly; I think the
time is nigh at hand, when each one will
have to know for themselves that this is the
work of God or they will be liable to fall by
the wayside. Do not get weary in well do-
ing, for we have great things to live for,
there is a prize at the end of the race.
	I would urge my younger sisters to attend
strictly to their secret prayers, it is the
greatest source of comfort that we can
have, also a safeguard against many, I
might say every evil. If we go to the
Lord and ask a favor of Him in faith and
wisdom we are sure to receive the desired
blessing. Let us not speak lightly of any
of the principles of our religion. Retrench
ment teaches us to uphold all things that
come from God, and gives us wisdom to
judge between good and evil. Let us show
by our acts that we are saints in word
thought and action. We will be looked to
for example by those whose minds are dark
as midnight, who have not oil in their
lamps nor the spirit of God in their hearts.
Retrenchment girls have every advantage
that is necessary to make them pure and
noble women. We have set our mark high,
and let us not cease our exertions until we
have attained it.
				MISS JOSEPHINE MYER.
	11th Ward, S. L. City.


SISTER Smith a colored woman has gained
notoriety as a star of camp meetings. She
is described as a tall, erect, elegant figure,
and dresses plainly and simply, wearing no
jewelry. Her speech is very correct; she is
choice in her words, particular about pro-
nunciation, in her gestures graceful, with a
soft pleasing voice; she seems to have a
good idea of human nature, and in her anal-
ysis of it equals, it is said, "Dickins or Elli-
ot." She is a natural orator and herself and
her speeches as well as her manners are at-
tractive.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
MORTAL AND IMMORTAL ELEMENTS
		OF THE HUMAN BODY.
A PHILOSOPHICAL OBJECTION TO THE RES- 
		URRECTION, REMOVED
		BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.
[This article was published in No. 13, vol.
2 of the EXPONENT, but as it has been so
often called for we have decided to repub-
lish it. Both strangers and saints have
been much interested in the explanations
made in it concerning the future disposal of
the elements composing the material body.]
	The subject of the resurrection of the
dead, although of inexpressible interest to
all of the human family, is very little un-
derstood by man in the flesh, and will not
be explained until he who holds the keys
pertaining to it for this dispensation, shall
develop its principles.
	Although we cannot penetrate the cloud
of obscurity which envelops this subject;
knowing, as we do, that death is certain, it
is natural that we should enquire in the
depths of our souls, What and where is our
future? Who, that does not altogether ig-
nore the idea of a resurrection of the body,
but experiences at times, a bewilderment of
thought concerning it.
	Realizing that, in accordance with estab-
lished laws of nature, the substances which
now compose these bodies of ours, will, af-
ter death, become identified parts of innu-
merable other human bodies, also be incor-
porated into the bodies of beasts, insects,
fowls &c. and through them bequeathed to
others; the question naturally arises, 'How
can they be again restored to us? And, if
restored to us, from what source will the
deficiency be supplied to other bodies?'
	This is a problem which neither the rules
of science nor the wisdom of man, unaided
by revelation, can solve—a problem which
infieity very plausibly applies as a settled
refutation to the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion—one in which the worldly wise phi-
losopher finds a palpable inconsistency, and
one which in the face of sound reason
amonts to the impossibility of a re-organ-
ization of a human body: for what reflecting
mind does not see that the laws of nature
which apply to the decomposition of the
elements which constitute the living body,
preclude a possibility of the same material
being restored, at one and the same time, to
all bodies of which it has comprised compo-
nent parts in millions of instances, at differ-
ent times; and, believing God to be a con-
sistent Being, and acting in accordance with
eternal, unchanging laws, and admitting
that these laws are harmonious—that the
higher operate in consonance with, and are
never antagonistic to those of a lower order,
it is a matter of surprise that thinking peo-
ple of a highly intelligent class, in many
instances, yield to infidelity and adopt the
humiliating conclusion that the resurrection
is only a phantom of the brain: while oth-
ers, with little or no reflection, content
themselves by admitting that, "with God
all things are possible," without questioning
in what manner, or by what means the re-
sult will be effected.
	His communications to, and the dealings
of God with man, so far as they are made
known to us, are characterized as those of
an intelligent Being conversing and dealing
with intelligent beings of the same order,
but in a vastly lower state of development.
	In His works, order is every where strik-
ingly apparent, and we find law, or rather
codes of law regulating and governing, not
[Column 2]
only every department of life, but also every
grade and variety of matter. From the
smallest speck that glitters and dances in
the bright sunshine, to the glowing galaxy
above us, representing system on system of
worlds in the mighty distance, order is
everywhere manifest. Each department,
whether of life or inanimate matter, is gov-
erned by laws particularly adapted to the
peculiarities of its own identity, and in reg-
ular gradation from the smallest atom and
the most diminutive animalcule to the high-
est intelligence above and all, whether as-
signed to different localities or interming-
ling in countless varieties—all operating in
harmony and not interfering with, or tres-
passing on each other.
	Just so far as those laws are developed to
our understandings we pronounce them nat-
ural principles; and what, with us consti-
tute a miracle, is nothing more nor less
than our ignorance of the process of law by
which the result is produced: for instance,
when our Savior in Cana of Galilee, chang-
ed water into wine, it is evident that he
manufactured the wine through the agency
of chemical laws of a higher order than
those taught in the schools, hence the peo-
ple were filled with astonishment, for to
them, the performance was a miracle, they
probably being as ignorant of the laws
through which the result was obtained, as
we now are concerning the resurrection of
the dead. 
	In relation to the objections urged against
the re-organizing of the human body, we
are in possession of a very important and
beautiful principle which pours a flood of
light into the mind—obviates a heretofore
insurmountable difficulty, and disarms infi-
delity of its strongest plea against the res-
urrection, and puts impossibility to silence.
	By this we are instructed that the resur-
rection of the body is independent of all
gross, divisable and transferable matter,
and this removes every rational objection
against the reunion of body and spirit,
based on the incontrovertible laws of nature
pertaining to the decomposition of the
body, and the subsequent transformations
and reproductions of the material of which
it was composed. These are substances
borrowed for this probationary use—to sub-
serve the necessities of this mortal exist-
ence—to render us tangible to gross tangi-
bility, and for which, after death, our bod-
ies will have no further use.
	As soon as the spirit leaves the body, and
frequently before nature's great work of de-
composition commences, and continues un-
til every particle of gross, volatile matter
is disengaged and by natural laws of affinity
passes into other forms, combining with oth-
er substances through an infinitude of
changes; and co-operating in an endless va-
riety of reproductions: as, for instance, the
grass that grows over the grave incorporates
a portion of the gross substance escaping
from the decaying body beneath: the cow,
the sheep and the goose devour the grass
which, through the natural laws of nourish-
ment produces flesh—people eat the flesh of
the cow, sheep, and goose, and thus we may
trace the same identical matter, perhaps
divided and sub-divided into infinitesimal
particles and passing into every form of hu-
man, brutal, insect vegetable and atmo-
pheric existence—going onward from gen-
eration to generation.
	But thanks to God for the key which
solves the mystery. Every organized human
body, independent of the spirit, (which is a
separate organization) is composed of two
distinct grades or classes of matter, and in
such natural combination as to serve the
purposes of this lower existence. One is
[Column 3]
gross, volatile—subject to change and decay
through a precarious union of earth, air, fire
and water—tangible to mortal sight and
touch, and subject to all the laws of decom-
position. The other is pure, invisible, in-
tangible and capable of resisting every law
of infraction or dissolubility. This, when
the spirit leaves the body, remains INTACT—
never being incorporated with other bodies
or substances. This is the precious material
that will be resurrected in perfect form, and
compose the immortal tabernacle of the im-
mortal spirit.
	It is well understood that resurrected be-
ings are invisible to these gross organs of
sight except when they are quickened by
immortal vision, that if the dead were
brought forth within viewing distance of us
we should not see them. Why not? The
resurrected body being composed of this
pure material can only be seen by organs of
sight formed by the same pure matter, un-
clogged with gross substances. 
	While the gross portion is disorganizing
and reorganizing, being perpetually chang-
ing and in motion—while the disembodied
spirit is associating in the worlds above; the
pure substance, the precious germ of an
immortal tabernacle, the jewel's casket,
quietly sleeps in the bosom of mother Earth,
awaiting an eternal mandate, which, in ac-
cordance with the higher code, the celes-
tial law, shall reunite with the joyous spirit
filled with eternal intelligence, no more to
be separated.
	The Earth also, combines in its present
organization, both of the above mentioned
classes of elements; and, as well as man, will
yet experience a process of purfication be-
fore it can become the habitation and ever-
lasting inheritance of resurrected, immor-
tal, embodied intelligences. "The elements
shall melt with fervent heat." After hav-
ing passed the purifying ordeal, of fire, and
having been cleansed from all combustible
and volatile properties, the earth will pass
from its present orbit, to the position among
the creations of God from which it has fall-
en in consequence of man's transgression;
and then will that prediction of our Savior
be fully realized—"The meek shall inherit
the earth."


SEPARATE POCKET-BOOKS.

	Husbands and wives are not one in any
such sense as to obviate the necessity, or at
least the propriety, of each having a purse
with money in it that each shall feel free to
use as he or she chooses. Tastes differ, and
it is not fair that men or women shall be re-
quired entirely to subordinate their wish-
es in trifling matters to those of the oth-
er part. If they choose to do so, well
and good. Such deference to the opinions
of a husband by the wife is all the more
becoming when known to be voluntary
and not compulsory. A wife often wishes
to give money in charity, and she may
sometimes like to make a pleasant surprise
for her husband in the shape of some appro-
priate present. How can she do this if she
has to go to him and explain in detail what
money she needs and what use she propos-
es to make of it? In bestowing charity, we
are told not to let the left hand know what
the right hand giveth; but how is this pre-
cept to be fulfilled by the thousands of wo-
men who are the "right hand" of so many
households in works of charity where the
left hand, their husbands, keeps all the
money? A lady, evidently a farmer's wife,
writes very sensibly on this topic in the
Western Rural, as follows:
	"Every woman ought to have her own


pocket-book and some way of making mo-
ney that is her own. There are a number of
ways on a farm that this can be done, if one
has a mind to find them. I have a friend
who has all the butter she sells, or rather
all the money she gets for it, for her own;
she does with it as she pleases and accounts
for it to no one, and her husband (sensible
man) thinks it all right. I would not give
a snap to make my husband a present bought
with the money I had by hard exertions
coaxed from him. Who would? He per-
haps would not see what I wanted with it.
I do not want to tell him just then, there-
fore he does not think I need it. Perhaps
I don't; but I notice that the slippers I got
bottomed with it and gave to him on his
birthday or Christmas were thought by him
to be all right, and he didn't "see how he
had ever got along without them." Had I
told him at the time what I wanted of the
money, half the pleasure of receiving and
all the pleasure of giving would have been
gone.
	"Suppose you are out in company and the
ladies are raising a little private fund of
their own, as is often the case, how small a
woman feels to be compelled to say, "I
would like to give something, but Mr. D.
has got the pocket-book, and he is not
here!" Don't you think Mr. D. would feel
rather mean over it when she went home
and told him about it, as she would be sure
to do?
	"How many men can we pick out who
have every kind of improved machinery to
help along their work, who are every now
and then buying some patent right concern,
of no use to themselves or any body else,
while the wife doesn't have any of the
helps there are for her sex—often not even
a washer and wringer! I can find plenty
such. Would it be so if she had some of
the money to spend?
	"Does not a woman look better with a
neat dress, nice collar and a bow of bright
ribbon, than with the dress minus the collar
and bow? Still, if she had asked you to
get them, you would probably have told
her it was 'all foolishness having such fixins'
—she could do just as well without them.'
The woman who never has a little money
for her own use soon gets tired of trying,
and then is pretty sure to go to the other
extreme. Give me the woman that carries
her own pocket-book, and the man who
thinks it is all right for her to do so.
					AUNT PATSY.
	"Pleasant Hill, Iowa.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SINGLE WORD.

	The following touching story, was re-
cently told by a gentleman in Boston in
delivering a temperance address.
	A mother in the Green Hills of Ver-
mont, was holding her son sixteen years of
age by the right hand, as he was about to
leave her, "mad with the love of the sea."
As she stood thus by the garden gate
on a sunny morning she said: "Edward,
they tell me—for I never saw the ocean—
that the great temptation of a seaman's
life is drink. Promise me, before you quit
your mother's hand, that you will never
drink." "And, said he, for he told me the
whole story, I gave her the promise and I
went the broad globe over—Calcutta, the
Mediterranean, San Francisco, the Cape of
Good Hope, the North and South pole I saw
them all in forty years, and I never saw a
glass filled with sparkling liquor, that my
mother's form by the garden gate on the
green hill-sides of Vermont, did not rise be-


fore me; and to-day, at sixty, my lips are
innocent of the taste of liquor. Was not
that sweet evidence of the power of a sin-
gle word? Yet that was but half. "For"
said he, "yesterday there came into my
counting room  a young man of forty, and
asked "Do you know me?" "No." "Well,
I was once brought drunk into your pres-
ence on ship-board; you were a passenger,
the Captain kicked me aside; you took me
to your berth, and kept me, till I had slept
off the intoxication. Then you asked me if
I had a mother: I said I never knew a word
from her lips; you told me of yours at the
garden gate, and to-day I am the master of
one of the finest packets in New York; and
I come to ask you to call and see me."
	How far that little candle has thrown its
beams! God be thanked for the Almighty
power of a single word.


WHAT OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES
	SAYS OF LONG DRESSES.

	Our landlady's daughter is a young lady
of some pretentions to gentility. She wears
her bonnet well back upon her head which
is known by all as a mark of high breeding.
She wears her trains very long, as the great
ladies do in Europe. To be sure their
dresses are so made only to sweep the tap-
estried floors of chateaux and palaces; and
those odious aristocrats of the other side do
not go dragging through the mud in silks
and satins, but forsooth, must ride in coach-
es when they are in full dress. It is true
that, considering the various habits of the
American people, also the little accidents
which the best kept sidewalks are liable to
a lady who has swept a mile of them is not
exactly in such a condition that one would
care to be her neighbor. But confound the
make believe women we have turned loose
in our streets! Where do they come from!
Not out of Boston parlors, I trust. Why
there isn't a beast or a bird that would drag
its tail through the dirt in the way these
creatures do their dresses. Because a queen
or a duchess wears long robes on grand oc-
casions, a maid of all work or a factory girl
thinks she must make herself a nuisance by
trailing about with her—pah! that's what I
call getting vulgarity into your bones and
marrow. Making believe what you are not
is the essence of vulgarity. Show over dirt
is one attribute of vulgar people. If any
man can walk behind these women and see
what they rake up as they go, and not feel
squeamish, he has got a tough stomach. I
would not let one of them into my room
without serving them as David served Saul
at the cave in the wilderness—cut off his
skirts. Don't tell me that a true lady ever
sacrifices the duty of keeping all about her
sweet and clean to the wish of making a
vulgar show. I won't believe it of a lady.
There are some things that no fashion has a
right to touch, and cleanliness is one of
those things. If a woman wishes to show
that her husband or father has money, which
she wants and means to spend, but doesn't
know how, let her buy a yard or two of silk
and pin it to her dress when she goes out to
walk, but let her unpin it before she goes
into the house.


BEAUTY AND BRAINS.

	Some newspaper writer reviews the la-
mentable truism that literary women are
seldom beautiful. Their features, particu-
larly their foreheads, are more or less mas-
culine. But there are exceptions to all
rules, and Miss Landon was an exception to


this one. She was exceedingly feminine
and pretty. Mrs. Stanton is likewise a
pretty woman, but Miss Anthony and Mrs.
Livermore are both plain. Maria and Jane
Porter were women of high brows and ir-
regular features, as was also Miss Sedgwick.
Anna Dickinson has a strong masculine face;
Kate Field has a good-looking though by
no means pretty one, and Mrs. Stowe is
thought to be positively homely. Alice
and Pheoebe Cary were both plain in features,
though their sweetness of disposition added
greatly to their personal appearance. Mar-
garet Fuller had a splended head, but her
features were irregular and she was any-
thing but handsome, though sometimes in
the glow of conversation she appeared al-
most radiant. Charlotte Bronte had won-
drously beautiful dark-brown eyes and a
perfectly-shaped head. She was small to
diminutiveness, and was as simple in her
manners as a child. Julia Ward Howe is a
fine-looking woman, wearing an aspect of
grace, refinement and great force of charac-
ter in her face and carriage. Laura Holloway
resembles Charlotte Bronte both in personal
appearance and the sad experience of her
young life. Neither Mary Booth nor Ma-
rion Harland can lay claim to handsome 
faces, though they are splendid specimens
of cultivated women, while Mary Clemmer
Ames is just as pleasing in her features as
her writings are graceful and popular.—
R. N. Y.


A WOMAN SEVEN TIMES WEDDED.

	The Symrna (Del.) Times reports the
marriage on the 30th of June of Mr. Benja-
min Abbot to Mrs. Mary Pratt. This is the
seventh time the lady has been married,
each time except the first to a widower, and
she has never borne any children, though
her successive husbands had large families
by former marriages.
	Mrs. Abbott's names have been eight in
all—Miss Williams, Mrs. Truax, Mrs. Fur-
row, Mrs. Riggs, Mrs. Wallace, Mrs, Berry,
Mrs. Pratt, and now Mrs. Abbott. The
lady and her husbands have always lived in
the same locality, and each one knew the
others all their lives. Mrs. Abbott is up-
ward of seventy years of age, and had
been a widow for five years previous to her
last marriage—the longest term of widow-
hood she ever experienced. She always
had a presentiment that she would have
seven husbands, but is doubtful if much
was ever said about this to her former part-
ners, or if they would have liked conversa-
tion on this subject. At all events the pre-
sentiment has come true, but is surely to
be hoped that the lady will not have any
more.


INTELLECTUAL CULTURE—A cultivated
mind may be said to have infinite stores of
innocent gratification.  Everything may be
made interesting to it, by becoming a sub-
ject of thought or inquiry.  Books regarded
merely as a gratification, are worth more
than all the luxuries on earth.  A taste for
literature secures cheerful occupation for
the un-employed and languid hours of life;
and how many persons in these hours, for
want of innocent resources, are now im-
pelled to coarse pleasures? How many
young men can be found who, unaccus-
tomed to find a companion in a book, and
strangers to intellectual activity, are almost
driven, in the long, dull evenings of win-
ter, to haunts of intemperance and vice.—
Floral Cabinet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	BRIGHT AND EARLY.
Bright and early is the theme
	We should ever keep in view;
Always hold it as supreme
	This will bear us safely through.
If we're bright and early over,
	In the race through life to run,
When life's thread grini death shall sever,
	The glorious prize is surely won.
Those who are both bright and early
	'Mid the varied scenes of earth:
They can read their title clearly
	Unto a celestial birth.
Bright and early came the woman
	To the Sepulcher to weep;
On the Resurrection morning,
	It was not the time to sleep.
All who have been great or useful,
	In the battle of this life,
They have been both bright and early
	Foremost in the noble strife.
							SOLO.


FLOWERS.

	A WHITE glove often covers a dirty
hand.
	God blesses not alone that which we do,
but that which we try to do.
	NEVER part without loving words to
think of during your absence.
	HE has the largest life who lives lovingly
in the hearts of the largest number of peo-
ple.
	IT is but a short step from modesty to
humility, but a shorter one from vanity to
folly.
	HEARTS have windows.  They should be
kept open at all times, that the glad sun-
shine of all that is true and beautiful in this
life may enter and abide therein.
	IF I were suddenly asked to give a proof
of the goodness of God to us, I think I
should say that it is most manifested in the
exquisite difference He has made between
the souls of women and men, so as to cre-
ate the possibility of the most charming
companionship the mind of man can imag-
ine.—Arthur Helps.
	FEELING maketh a lively man; thought
maketh a strong man; action maketh a use-
ful man—and all these together make a per-
fect man.  Now, abide these three: Feel-
ing, thought, action, and the greatest of
these is action; but neither can abide with-
out the others.  Some men think much,
feel little, and act less.  They are univer-
sally unsafe and unlovely men.
	THERE are some men who carry sunshine
and happiness, by their very presence,
wherever they go.  The ills of life sit
lightly on them; they make the best of
everything. They inhale and enjoy the fra-
grance of the rose while it lasts, without
pausing to lament that to-morrow its leaves
will be withered.  Their hearts swell with
delight at the many-colored rainbow, and
as its hues quickly fade, they say to them-
selves, Never mind, it was a bright bow of
promise, anyhow.
	Such people are the true, practical philoso-
phers.  They find in the fact that life is
short a conclusive argument in favor of en-
joying as nearly every moment of it as pos-
sible.
	They are not only the happiest of people
themselves, but they do a great deal to
make all around them happy.  Their pres-
ence is everywhere welcome; their absence
is felt and regretted.  They help the world
on, and contribute to make it joyous.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Broiled Tomatoes.—Cut medium-sized tomatoes
in halves and put them upon a gridiron, surface
down. When the surface appears to be somewhat
cooked turn them, and finish the cooking with the
skin toward the fire. The cooking should be
gradual, so as not to break the skin. Place upon
a dish, put a little salt and a lump of butter upon
each half, and serve quite hot.
	To Can Tomatoes.—Be sure they are perfectly
fresh and ripe; immerse them a minute or two in
scalding water—in an ox muzzle if you have one;
remove the skin, put the pulp into a colander to
drain; then put in the preserving kettle and boil
till just done; a minute to long will make the seeds
give out their bitter flavor, put at once in cans and
seal. If these directions are followed, you may
have tomatoes all winter as fresh as though just
from the vine.
	Chowder of Piccalilli.—To half a bushel of
nicely chopped tomatoes, which must be squeezed
dry, add two dozen onions chopped fine, one doz-
en green peppers chopped, one box of ground
mustard, one large root of grated horseradish,
nearly a pint of salt, four tablespoonfuls ground
cloves, four of allspice. Mix thoroughly in a
stone jar and cover with vinegar, making a hole
in the center to let the vinegar to the bottom.
	Chow Chow.—Take 3 pecks of ripe tomatoes and
3 of green ones, 5 large solid cabbage heads, 1 doz.
large onions, one doz. white peppers, 1 doz.
green peppers; 1/2 lb. celery, chop these all very
fine, cover with salt, soak 24 hours, then drain off
the brine, cover with vinegar, add 3 lbs. sugar, one
teacupful of grated horse raddish; 2 tablespoon-
fuls of white mustard seed, 1 of cloves, 2 of all-
spice, 2 of ginger, 1 of ground mustard, cover
all closely and set it aside for one month then it
is ready for use.
	To Remove Mildew.—We have several times
been asked for a valuable recipe for the removal
of mildew. We doubt whether there is any meth-
od that is infallible in all cases, but the following,
which we find in an English Journal, will often
prove effectual: Make a very weak solution of
chloride of lime in water (about a heaped-up tea-
spoonful to a quart of water) strain it carefully,
and dip the spot on the garment into it; and if the
mildew does not disappear immediately, lay it in
the sun for a few minutes, or dip it again in the
lime-water. The work is effecutally and speedily
done, and the chloride of lime neither rots the
cloth nor removes delicate colors, when sufficiently
diluted, and the articles rinsed afterwards in clear
water.—Boston Journal of Chemistry.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"WHAT is the Blarney stone?"  We be-
lieve it to be the same as the Sham rock.
	WHY do housekeepers preserve so much
fruit?  Because they can.
	WHAT should be the name of a lawyer's
wife?  Sue.  A printer's wife?  Em. A
druggist's wife? Ann Eliza.  A carpet
man's wife? Mat-tie.
	TAKE away my first letter, take away my
second letter, take away all my letters, and 
I am still the same—The postman.
	IT was Sydney Smith who retorted upon
some one who called him an every-day
man. "Well if I am an every-day man you
are a weak one."
	SPEAKING of railroads a wag remarked
that they are now built of three guages,
viz:  Broad guage, narrow guage and mort-
gage.
	WHAT is the difference between, the 
death of a barber and a sculptor?  One curls
up and dyes; the other makes faces and
busts.


WHY would a Frenchman say that an in-
ferior singer at the opera was an indecent
character?? Because he is always in de
chorus.
	"IS this the Adam House?" asked a stran-
ger of a Bostonian. "Yes;" was the reply;
"its Adam's House until you get to the
roof, then its eves."
	A YOUNG lady who had no time to spare
for making garments for the poor has been
engaged three weeks embroidering a blank-
et for her poodle dog.
	"YOU would be very pretty indeed," said
a gentleman patronisingly to a young lady,
"if your eyes were only a little larger."
My eyes may be very small, sir, but such
people as you don't fill them.


CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume.

10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club.	-	-	-	-	- $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	- 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as  their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
ton and usefulness.

			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF 
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,

					AND 
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, DEALER IN
			FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		Feathers, Wall Paper,
				AND
		BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1875.			No. 8.


FRIENDSHIP.

O life is beautiful, and fair, and sweet,
	With all its golden wealth of love and hope,
Bright, dreamy fancies, castles incomplete
	Fill up the vacant avenues and scope.

But while we plod along, from day to day,
	What is it cheers and gladdens most the heart?
Not love—the changeful queen from sad to gay,
	Hope, Faith and Trust each, comfort may impart,

But Friendship, which the test of truth has tried,
	Lifts us from darkness into regions fair,
And will with sorrow or with joy abide,
	A gem of gems, exquisite rich and rare.

Let poets sing in praises all divine,
	Choosing among the gifts that God has given,
The one most precious, cheering, or sublime,
	To help poor mortals in the path to heaven,

I will suggest that FRIENDSHIP be the theme,
	Highest and worthiest of the poet's fire:
'Tis guiltless of deceit, or selfish scheme,
	And will true sympathy of soul inspire.

Linking together the divinest part,
	Of man or woman, in affection true,
'Twill elevate and purify the heart,
	Imparting strength, to bear life's journey through.

S. L. City, Sept. 13th, 1875.			EMILE.


[Column 1]
	A LESSON FOR YOUNG WIVES.
	A woman something over thirty years of
age, with faded blue eyes wearing a melan-
choly expression, soft, beautiful hair which
showed signs of sad neglect, and a care-
worn face—sat in, or rather on, a wooden
bottomed chair with no back, in a low,
dark, cheerless room which stands in the
outskirts of one of our cities. At least it
did stand there two years ago, but may
have since been removed.
	"I have been too short-sighted," she was
saying, "too reserved, too fearful of meet-
ing with ridicule, too much concerned about
—Oh! dear! When I think how foolish I 
have been! And yet, from the first, I de-
sired with my whole heart to be all that my
husband could wish."
	The newly married younger sister, to
whom these remarks were addressed, stood
close beside the speaker, with one hand
resting upon her shoulder, the other stray-
ing caressingly over the disheveled hair.
She looked down into the weary, sunken
eyes in tender sympathy and said, after a
moments, pause:
	"Why should you reproach yourself? I
don't believe that any one in this world
would have done better than you have, un-
der the same circumstances. Your husband
has been so quick tempered, so ready to
find fault, to see all your imperfections and
overlook all your efforts to please him, so
inconsiderate—"
	"But let me tell you," interrupted the
first speaker, "that he has not been alone to
blame. I can see now, instances wherein I
might have gained respect and influence
with him, had I not lacked confidence in
his affections for me, and more in my own
ability to awaken within him the love for
which I pined. I think the disappointment
in our married life has been mutual. He
hoped to find in me all the qualities his
aspiring fancy had grouped together in
forming a model wife. And when he
found them not, his disappointment was so
great that he broke forth into a storm of
[Column 2]
wrath so violent it damped all my energy
and dwarfed all my ambition. The first
out-burst was so fierce and so unexpected
that it crushed me entirely. I never had
strength to rise above it, so his disappoint-
ments have never ceased and the storm has
never cleared away. Had I looked up from
under the clouds, aroused myself, shaken off
the gloom and met him sometimes with
sunshine in my face, instead of a down cast
look which told him I had not forgotten,
but anticipated another gush, the clouds
might not have gathered so often, or so black,
might sometimes have passed over without
bursting, and things might have been dif-
ferent. But it is too late now. Nothing
that I could do would inspire him to look
upon me as anything but a weak-minded,
spiritless creature without a spark of true
sentiment or brilliancy.
	"Once when I was very sick he came and
enquired after me with more feeling than
usual, spake almost tenderly and told me
that he had twice absented himself from
the house that day, to pray in secret for my
recovery.  Had I reached up my arms to
clasp his neck, thanked him and whispered
'God bless you, dear one, I do not wish to
leave you now,' it would have been befitting
the occasion and the relationship we held
toward each other; and I do not think he
would have spurned me then. But I merely
acknowledged that I heard him, by a faint
murmur, and turned languidly away. If
his heart was touched and softened toward
me, I took no advantage of the fact, but let
it pass without notice.
	"Again, one lovely autumn evening,
when all nature seemed to teem with happi-
ness, the air was filled with sweet, unwrit-
ten music, and flowers opened to pour forth
delight; I was feeling—half unconsciously
—a serene and heavenly peace, as I reclined
on a broad bench which stood without the
door. A hand was laid very gently upon my
shoulder, and my husband actually smiled
on me as he took in the sense of the sur-
rounding scene, and said in a voice uncom-
monly courteous, 'A penny for your
thoughts.'
	"Now that would have been a splendid
opening for a lively and inspiring conversa-
tion; for a woman with any animation about
her. But instead of seizing the golden op-
portunity, and endeavoring to make an im-
pression upon the man to whom I was mar-
ried, but whose heart I had never won, I
carelessly responded that I was not think-
ing of anything in particular, and there the
matter ended. My husband turned away
listlessly, thinking less perhaps of my collo-
quial capabilities than ever.
	"So you see, sister, where I have made
mistakes, and where, by a little comprehen-
sive thought and the use of my own dor-
mant powers I might have rendered happier
two lives. You must look farther. You
will never have just the same experience
that I have had, but the idea with which I
would impress you is, to make the most of
everything that will aid in making life plea-
sant, cheery and agreeable. And to let
everything of an unkindly nature pass as
lightly and with as little notice as possible."
	The elder sister ceased speaking, and the
[Column 3]
younger one promised to do her best to profit
by what she had heard.
	Had this sketch been a fanciful one, it 
should have been more elegantly worked
up, and finished in more refined style and 
beautiful colors—of course. But as it is a
plain, simple truth, please, dear young la-
dies, accept it for what it is worth. And if
the EXPONENT will allow me space, I will
follow in another number with A CAUTION
TO YOUNG HUSBANDS.
							MABEL.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"A MOCK Trial,,' a fine burlesque, was
performed at the Centennial at Norton
Mass, by the young ladies of class "75" and
a few of the under graduates of Wheaton
Female Seminary.  It was carried out with
appropriate dignity, and each part well
sustained by the juror, witness, crier, clerk,
judge, or lawyer as the case might be, by
the young ladies. The scene was very sug-
gestive of what woman may be, at some
future time, in the Court Room.
	THE "WOMAN'S Journal" says women are
filling into telegraph offices, post offices, etc.,
in New York; in fact, doing duty in the de-
partment over which Gov. Jewell presides,
and meeting with commendation. The
manual labor is light, it only needs a clear
head and orderly ways and both these
woman has at command.  The Journal
thinks the objection to employing women
because of sex is antiquated, and that it
cannot be revived. Employers are gener-
ally arriving at the rational conclusion that
when work has to be performed and woman
can do it as efficiently as man they will give
her the preference.  This growing apprecia-
tion of woman's work is certainly gratify-
ing to all who have her interests at heart.
	CHANGES ARE continually taking place in
governments, and in those who administer
them, and gradually the prejudices and radi-
cal opinions of men give way under the
prevailing influences of society and custom.
Not many years ago there were no Jews
among the leaders of the people in Europe.
How is it now? "A Jew leads the popular
movement in German Parliament." In
England Jews sit in Parliament and on the
Bench; whereas half a century ago they
could not even arrive at full citizenship.
They have full liberty of the press as writ-
ers and thinkers.  In the great city of
Rome, where once Jews were only allowed
to dwell near the Tiber by gracious permis-
sion, now a Jew wields civic authority over
that very city. Spain, which was so bitter
and cruel in her persecutions of that class,
has enacted a constitution that "at least re-
stores Jewish Worship at Madrid."


A BOY'S ENTERPRISE.—A boy was around
one of the hotels yesterday to get a job of
blacking boots, when a guest asked him:
	"Sonny, did you hear that the world was
coming to an end to-morrow?"
	"Great snakes! No!" exclaimed the lad,
instantly becoming excited; "where can a
feller buy some tickets?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Aug. 28th, 1875, was one of more than or-
dinary interest, as among the speakers was
a lady, Mrs. Kimball, who had come to hear
and satisfy herself concerning the reports
she had heard of this people. She expressed
her feelings to the congregation, and her
surprise to hear and see what proved to her
they had been so fearfully misrepresented.
She gave some excellent advice to the
young ladies, warning them against asso-
ciating with strangers to whom they might
be introduced, as many of the outside world
who were here in the midst of this people,
were men of no principle; men who would
not be admitted into the society of ladies
where their character was known. She is a
lady of very fine appearance and superior
attainments, has traveled and seen much of
the world, and is well posted concerning the
state of modern society. Her counsel was
earnest, she evidently felt impressed that it
was essential.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke a few words,
which were full of power and rich with
wisdom.
		NEPHI CITY, Sept. 1st, 1875.
	Meeting of the Relief Society held June
30th, 1875. Miss E. R. Snow and compan-
ions being present a meeting was appoint-
ed at 7 p. m. the same day for the purpose
of organizing a "Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Association." Miss Matilda E.
Picton was appointed president, Miss Mary
A. Parks, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McLean, Mrs.
Emma Bryan, Miss Mary Udall, Miss Mary
Hoyt, and Miss Mary E. Harley were cho-
sen as counselors. Mrs. Roxy L. Black-
burn Secretary, Miss Lois L. Foot assistant
Secretary; Mrs. Hannah Grover Superin-
tendant; Mrs. Ann M. McLean assistant
Supt.
	Sisters Snow, Horne and Howard, each
spoke very encouragingly to the young, ex-
horted us to live our religion, attend to our
prayers and keep the "words of wisdom,"
spoke a great deal concerning home manu-
facture also of extravagance in dress. We
were highly pleased with their visit, and
think their excellent instruction will prove
beneficial. Our Society at present numbers
one hundred and forty-five. We are striv-
ing to put down round dancing, but we
meet with a great deal of opposition, but
hope with the help of God to carry out
the resolutions we have formed.
	Resolution 1st. We will carry out the ex-
cellent instructions of those who organized
us, to the best of our ability and sustain our
president, also the Bishop, and the authori-
ties of the church, by our works as well as
our faith and prayers.
	2nd. We will attend our meetings also
the Sabbath meetings and school as often as
circumstances will permit.
	3rd. We will encourage and sustain Home
Manufacture, be plain and neat in our dress, 
dispensing with all superfluous trimmings.
	4th. We will abandon the reading of nov-
els and all light literature, and improve our
minds by reading the church books, news-
papers and all good books that will cultivate
the mind and improve our manners.
	5th. We will not speak disrespectful of any
one, and will no longer indulge in the un-
healthy practice of round dancing.
	6th. We will not use tea and coffee nor
any strong or injurious drinks but keep the
words of wisdom that we may receive the
blessings that are promised to the faithful.
	7th. We will not speak lightly of the

[Column 2]
sacred words and ordinances of God, but
reverence His holy name and strive to do
His will.
	8th. We will retrench from the use of
bad language, also from excessive or loud
laughter, as it is not considered good man-
ners, and is not approved of by our heavenly
Father.
	We wish your paper to increase in circu-
lation as we consider it the best paper print-
ed and think no family should be without it. 
				Yours Respectfully, 
			ROXY L. BLACKBURN, Secy. 

				LEVAN. Sept. 3rd, 1875. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June the 29th, Sisters Snow, Horne,
Howard and Barney paid a visit to this
place and held meeting, gave some very ex-
cellent instructions in regard to the duties
of the sisters of the Society and as wives
and mothers in the kingdom of God.
Showed the necessity of our becoming a
self-sustaining people; said the sisters could
do much in bringing things about; spoke of
retrenchment and urged the sisters to live
their religion, and spoke on many impor-
tant subjects which caused a renewal of the
Spirit of God amongst the people. Since
that time our Society meetings have been
better attended and a union increasing
among us. We have not made any very
great progress in establishing industries of
home manufacture, circumstances have not
been very favorable with us, the grasshop-
pers having taken the crops every year, but
this year we have raised quite good crops,
and we hope to do better in the future as a
Society. Many thanks to Sister Eliza R.
Snow and the other sisters; may they live
long to assist the Prophet in bringing about
the purposes of God.
		NANCY HARTLEY, President,
		ALICE TUNBRIDGE, Secretary.

At a meeting of the ladies of Brighton
Ward, Thursday, Sept. 2nd, 1875, an organ-
ization of the Brighton Ward Relief Socie-
ty was effected. Much valuable instruction
and good counsel was given by Sister Eliza
R. Snow and Bishop Raleigh.
	As officers of the Society were chosen:
Sister Mary Ann Hagan, President; Sisters
Hannah Hanson and Ottilie Schoenfeeld,
Counselors; Sister Agnes Jones, Secretary;
Sister Sophia Lane, Assistant Secretary; Sis-
ter Charlotte A. Peck, Treasurer.
	All the officers were voted in unani-
mously. 
		FREDERICK SCHOENFELD, Secretary. 

			MANTI, Sept. 5th, 1875. 
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Knowing you to be interested in the wel-
fare of the Relief Societies throughout the
Territory, perhaps a word in relation to the
progress of ours may not be unacceptable.
We are doing reasonably well at present.
We have an efficient corpse of officers and a
good spirit prevails in our meetings. Our
books show quite a fair record of our finan-
cial success for the half year ending with
July, considering the difficulties we have
had to encounter. We have collected in
that time, cash to the amount of $140, also
other articles amounting to $18,50, beside
caring for the poor and needy in our midst.
We have been visited at different times dur-
ing the summer by sisters from the City,
and have received much excellent instruc-
tion by which we feel greatly encouraged. 
The EXPONENT is ever a welcome visitor

[Column 3]
among us. I will close with best wishes for
your continued success and prosperity. 
				Respectfully, 
					HANNAH BILLINGS, 
						Secretary.


SALT LAKE CITY, Aug. 24th, 1875.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been so much interested in our
meetings and Sunday schools lately, that I 
really want to say something to my young
friends about them.
	Boys and girls, I do not believe that you
have all got as good fathers and mothers as
mine. I am sure you cannot have, or some
of you would not do as I see you. My par-
ents teach me that to keep the Sabbath day
holy, as the Lord has commanded us to do,
means not to play nor work on that day; but
to prepare our food with as little labor as
possible, and to go to the house of the Lord
to pray and worship in union, with the good
people who gather there, and then to rest at
home and read good books and think about
God and His wisdom and kindness.
	Now I know some of you laugh and talk
about picnics and parties, and your pretty
dresses and all such things in Sunday school;
and I presume you do the same in meeting
if you go there.  And you play and romp at
home and at your neighbors, and laugh and
talk loud on Sunday, for I hear you. All
this is wicked and I wish not one of you
would ever do so any more.
	Perhaps you will think, "what right has a 
little girl only ten years old to talk to us of 
our faults? What does she know?" I can
tell you, I know of these things because my
father and mother have told me, not be-
cause I am smarter or better than you, or
half so smart as some of you. But dear
friends, smartness will take none of us to
Heaven, except we use our knowledge for
good.
					LITTLE SISTER.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	KATE Harrington, one of the poetical
contributors to the "Woman's Journal," is
about to publish her poems in book form.
Her real name is Mrs, R. S. Pollard; she
resides in Keokuk, Iowa.
	MRS. Batemen, manager of the Lyceum
Theatre, London, has the exclusive right to
perform Mr. Tennyson's drama during five
years, both in England and America; pay-
ing the author a stipulated sum per night.
	MISS Ella Dietz is giving readings in
England, from all the most popular poets;
she is commended highly by the press there.
She is also taking the leading part in a
comedy taken from the French and adapted
by herself. The piece is interspersed with
songs, which she herself has set to music.
She must certainly be a lady of uncommon
genius as well as superior culture and attain-
ments.
	AT the commencement, in Cazenovia,
New York, of an old Methodist School which
has just celebrated its semi-Centennial An-
niversary, Miss Jerusha Loomis took the
prize of scholarship of one hundred dollars;
and the four scholars next in rank were
girls. This is noticeable in a school where
the majority of pupils are boys.


WE are usually capable of greater things
than we perform; we are sent into the
world with bills of credit and seldom draw
to their full extent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FAREWELL,

TO SISTER R. M. CARRINGTON, ON HER
		DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE.
	[The following lines were inscribed as a tribute from the
Relief Society of the Seventeenth Ward at the presenta-
tion of a silver cup, at a Surprise Party given for Mrs.
Carrington.]
		Farewell, dear sister, but ere thou leav'st us,
			We would take thy parting hand,
		And wish thee health, and joy, and pleasure,
			In that far off, distant land.

		We have known thee many seasons,
			Many years have proved thy worth;
		And in faithful bonds of friendship
			May our days be passed on earth.

		As Friendship's offering we bring,
			The cup you now behold,
		And hope that all thy future life,
			May be bright silver, lined with gold.

		Farewell! and may the God of Heaven,
			Shield and save thee from all harm,
		And safely bring thee back to Zion,
			By his mighty, out-stretched arm.
									MRS. G. A. ALDER.
S. L. City, Aug. 25th, 1875.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A DISCOURSE DELIVERED
	BY ELDER J. F. WELLS IN THE THIR-
	TEENTH WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS, Aug.
	19. 1875.
	In announcing the object of this meeting
I will say, the general object is, to inaugu-
rate a series of such meetings among the
young people of this city, while the partic-
ular object is, to effect the organization of
the young men of the 13th Ward in a MU-
TUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. This
is being done at the suggestion, and by the
authority of President Young.
	In connection with a number of other
young men, we have met together this
evening to organize. We feel indebted to
the sisters for the full attendance we have
here to-night. Sister Snow and those asso-
ciated with her have organized the young
ladies, and their labors have been crowned
with success. By meeting together in an
organized capacity they have been protect-
ed from many temptations and snares of
the enemies with which they were sur-
rounded. The only way that we can accept
the doctrine, and follow the teachings of
the divines of the various religious denom-
inations, who are seeking to lead the youth
of this Territory out from their darkness
and delusion, as they think, is by breaking
the fifth commandment, by ignoring the
faith that our parents have struggled so
hard to maintain and inculcate in the hearts
of their children.
	Now I have a mission given by the Presi-
dent to organize the young men, and we in-
tend to visit every ward in this city and ac-
complish the object of our mission. We ex-
pect to organize here to-night with as many
or more than this church was organized
with in the beginning. We need the culti-
vation of the heart as well as the mind, how
are any of us to know by the gift of the
Holy Ghost and the spirit of revelation, that
this Gospel for which our parents sacrificed
and suffered so much, is the revealed will of
God to us as well as to them, if we do not
know these principles our parents have
taught us are of God? It is not only our
privilege but it is our duty to know them
upon the same principle that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ the Son of the
living God. Do we remember the fifth
commandment? "Honor thy father and thy
mother, that thy days may be long upon the
land the Lord thy God giveth thee." Do
we speak lightly of the things of God that
[Column 2]
our parents have taught us, which were sa-
cred, more sacred and dear to them than their
lives, which have been proven to us by the
sacrifices they have made? How many of
us are willing to sacrifice as they have done
for those principles that are calculated to
save and exalt us with them in the king-
dom of our Father and God? Who has re-
vealed them? If we are disobedient to our
parents and treat lightly the principles they
have labored so faithfully to maintain, are
we not guilty of breaking the fifth com-
mandment that I referred to? How many
of you my young brethren realize the
responsibility of seeking unto God to
know for yourselves that what your
parents have taught you is of God?
Do you realize that you are surrounded with
the enemies of God, the hireling priests
who seek to ensnare you and lead you from
the counsels of your parents? They would
destroy our parents if God would suffer
them to do so; this is their object and miss-
ion here, to overthrow the Kingdom of God
if possible, and they expect to accomplish
it by the influence they exert over the youth
of this people. They are not our friends,
neither are they the friends of God, their
motives are false, and their doctrines are as
false as hell; they seek to destroy the priest-
hood and lead the heirs of the priesthood
down to perdition, and there is no person
who has received the light of the Holy
Ghost that can believe their doctrines.
Their only alternative is infidelity. This is
our fate my brethren if we suffer ourselves
to be led from the counsels of our parents,
and lose the light of the Holy Spirit, we are
infidels to God. But if we are obedient
we have a right to the Holy Ghost which
has been conferred upon us, and it will
teach us our duty, and by the exercise of
that gift, we will know truth from error, and
light from darkness. A German author
said, "Give me the education of the child-
ren when young and the kingdom is mine."
Now this is what our enemies know and
they seek to establish their seminaries of
learning in our midst as well as their church-
es, desiring to educate the children of the
Latter-day Saints, confessing that the aged
are out of their reach; but let them have
the children to educate and they will ac-
complish the overthrow of the kingdom of
God. Now we can see the necessity of be-
ing organized and living our religion. My
parents have taught me the truth and so
have yours, and no tongue can express the
gratitude we owe to them for their faith-
fulness. It is my desire to honor and de-
fend the principles they have taught me;
for I know they have done all in their pow-
er to educate and prepare me for a life of
usefulness. Now I have explained the ob-
ject of our meeting together this evening,
to the best of my ability, and I pray God to
bless our efforts and crown them with suc-
cess. I will give way for others, praying
God to bless you.
	Brother Atwood spoke for a short time
expressing his joy and gratitude, saying for
this he had prayed, and would rather a son
of his felt as Bro. Wells did, than to have
a million of dollars.
		     Reported by
					WILMIRTH EAST.


"Now, George, you must divide the cake
honorably with your brother Charles."
"What is honorably, mother?" "It means
that you must give him the largest piece."
"Then, mother, I'd rather Charley should
divide it.


CENSURE.
	"For everything contains within itself,
	The seeds and sources of its own corruption;
	The cankering rust corrodes the brightest steel;
	The moth frets out the garment, and the worm
	Eats its slow way into the solid oak."
	The great and good have written and
sought to teach (by precept at least) that to
excel in conversation, to be really entertain-
ing, one should beware of censuring others,
or casting ill-timed or ungenerous reflec-
tions.
	This very prevalent  injurious
habit is, or seems to be incident to all
classes of society, and none are so fortunate
as to wholly escape criticism.
	It will inevitably bring its own reward,
or more properly, punishment, upon all who
indulge in it, or encourage its growth or en-
trance into the sanctuary of their hearts.
The faults and weaknesses of others become
like our very breath, continually before our
eyes, and instead of making allowances, or
exercising charity, we are prone to ridicule
and censure those whom we should sustain
by our prayers, our kindness and our sympa-
thies.
	It is indeed strange (yet no more strange
than true) that the greater part of social
conversation is made up of fault-finding and
slander; remarks derogatory to the charac-
ter of the absent; there are a few, perhaps,
who are unconsciously led to indulge in this
fearful practice through the influence of ill-
chosen associates.  But there are others to
whom the most interesting subjects are void
of interest, their tastes in conversation have
become so vitiated, unless bitterness and
sarcasm are the leading topics, or at least
spice up the conversation.
	Occasionally we meet with persons so in-
nocent in themselves, that no amount of
this sort of example effects them; such as-
sociates are the jewels of society, but they
are like "angel's visits—few and far be
tween."
	When we do meet such persons we dis-
cern quickly their superiority, and are
eager to accept them into our social circle,
and lay claim to their friendship.
	You will certainly all agree with me in
saying, there are few persons who do not
regard a man or woman of this last type of
character as truly noble, and worthy the es-
teem and good will of all, and ardently
admired by all intelligent and refined peo-
ple.
	It should be within the power of every
young person to make and keep a resolu-
tion, whether directly or indirectly uncom-
plimentary to the society of their compan-
ions; and we may, by endeavoring to cor-
rect our own feelings, benefit those in our
immediate circle, and such an influence
would heighten the tone and elevate the
sentiments of all with whom we associate.
							Hettie.


LITTLE THINGS.
	Little words are the sweetest to hear; lit-
tle charities fly furthest and stay longest on
the wing; little flakes are the stillest; little
hearts the fondest, and little farms the best
tilled. Little books are the most read, and
little songs the dearest loved. And when
Nature would make anything especially rare
and beautiful, she makes it little—little
pearls, little diamonds, little dews. Agar's
is a model prayer, yet it is but a little one,
and the burden of the petition for but little.
The sermon on the mount is little, but the
last dedication discourse was an hour. Life
is made up of littles; death is what remains
of them all. Day is made up of little beams
and night is glorious with little stars.


60			﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA [-] HORNE, Business Manager

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1875.


SALT LAKE CITY, 8th Sept., 1875.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In your issue of Sept. first, I notice an arti-
cle written by Miss E. R. Snow, entitled "Mor-
tal and Immortal Elements of the Human
Body," republished from No. 13, Vol. 2, of your
Journal. The cause assigned for its reproduc-
tion in your paper is, that "Saints and strangers
were so interested" in its statements, and it
had been so often called for that republication
was decided upon.
	I sincerely regret that this demand should
have arisen, I had hoped that after its first pub-
lication it would have slept and never been
awakened; but the fact of its having been so
repeatedly called for, places me under obliga-
tions to correct the minds of the Latter-day
Saints in relation to the doctrine contained
therein.
	On some future occasion when I have time I
may possibly take up the article in detail, but
at present shall simply say, as the prophet Jo-
seph Smith once told an Elder who asked his
opinion of a, so called revelation he had writ-
ten,—"It has just one fault and that one fault
is, it is not true."
					BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.


PRESIDENT GEORGE A. SMITH.

DEDICATED TO HIS FAMILY AND FRIENDS.

	A friend of God—a friend of man—a kind
And loving husband, father, brother, saint,
Has gone!

		The deep, sad sense of loneliness
Felt in the soft and soothing whisperings
Of twilight zephyrs as they gently move,
And seem in mournful requium to chant
The solemn fact, speaks volumes to the heart.

	He is not dead; yet, death has done its work;
It came, but not in ghastliness—it as
A kindly porter set the "Gates Ajar,"
And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
'Twas worn and weary and it needed rest.
No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart-yearnings of
The loving and beloved, could longer bind
That mighty spirit in an earthy form.

	The wreath which mem'ry twines for him, around
The warm affections of the saints of God,
Will still be bright, and fresh with fragrance, when
The tallest, proudest monumental spires
That grace the tombs of earthly royalties,
Have crumbled 'neath the with'ring stroke of Time.

	He made his mark in honor's upward path;
And his example is, to those he loves,
The richest legacy he could bequeath.
	With firm integrity, unflinchingly
He's "fought the fight of faith." He's nobly fought
The powers of darkness—stem'd the foaming tide
Of ign'rance, prejudice and bigotry,
Combined in force against Eternal Truth.
And now, disrobed of frail mortality's


Encumbrances, he joins the mighty host
Of valiant vet'rans of the cross, who're all
Co-operating with the saints on earth;
And with that band he'll shout triumphant strains.

	Here, he was humble as a little child,
And yet, as boldest lion, he was bold
And brave. Unflinchingly he ever dared,
What is no ordinary daring in
This fawning, sycophantic age; he dared
To speak the truth. He verily is one
Of God's best specimens of genuine
Nobility, ie., AN HONEST MAN.
We're proud to know he was and is our friend.

	"Peace to his ashes." His loved memory
Needs not of mortal praise. His works abide;
And he, with all whose lives are fashioned by
The unadulterated Gospel's mould,
Will live eternally where God shall reign.
							E. R. SNOW.
Salt Lake City, Sept. 11th, 1875.


OBITUARY.
	President George A. Smith, First Counselor
to President Brigham Young and cousin to Jo-
seph Smith the prophet, departed this life
Wednesday morning September 1st, 1875, after
a long and tedious illness which he bore with
almost unparalleled fortitude, patience and
faith. He took a very severe cold early in the
Spring soon after his return from St. George,
which was the original cause of his severe ill-
ness. Deceased was born at Potsdam St. Law-
rance Co., New York, on the 26th of June 1817.
His entire life from the days of his boyhood un-
til the time of his death, has been devoted to
the building up of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth. There is a history recorded in the
very circumstance of his being chosen as a
member of the "Quorum of the Twelve" when
he was not yet twenty-two years of age, that
speaks to the mind of every intelligent per-
son in a language louder and more forcible
than the highest culogium of praise. He has
traveled extensively to preach the Gospel at
home and abroad; and has held many public 
positions of trust and responsibility.
	As a fitting tribute to the memory of one so
faithful and beloved, we can only say, he has
lived the life of a TRUE Latter-day Saint, and
though he has passed from mortal sight, his
works remain as an everlasting memorial of
his fame, which no change of time or temper-
ature can ever mar or deface. And to the be-
reaved there is comfort immeasurable, in the
contemplation of such a glorious life and the
surety of an immortal re-union, if they follow
his examples and instructions.


[Column 1]
		A REFORM NEEDED.

	Excess seems to be incidental to human na-
ture, and wherever there is excess reaction is
sure to follow; it is invariable the world over
that extravagance is ruinous to any nation, to
any people, to any society, family or person.
There is the same result whether it is one
country or another; people are ready enough to
acknowledge this, and yet they are prone to see
the mote in another's eye, without casting the
beam out of their own. Report tells us of
partners ruining their firms by extravagance
of ladies who dress so expensively, live so lux-
uriously that their husbands capital is not
equivalent and in consequence by and by.
comes a failure, a bankruptcy, or sometimes
worse, a fearful suicide and all is over. Who is
to blame for all these things and who is will-
ing to step out and head a reform? Here and
there one may undertake it alone, but what
influence have they, what support is given
them, how are their sentiments and opinions
received? The generality of the people will
say "custom and society are to blame," they,
poor inanimate things will have much to an-

[Column 2]
swer for, they will assuredly be over-burdened.
Should rational beings and accountable for their
acts, endowed by heaven with such wonderfulpowers of reasoning, sense and judgment,
allow themselves to be drawn into habits and
practices which are in their developement ruin-
ous, and then cry out custom must answer
for their sins! Latter-day Saints do not follow
the custom of the world in worshipping God
nor in attributing to Him a sphere, for they
worship a God without body parts or passions,
(and by the by we have often wondered how
they thought He could be jealous, and their God
dwells beyond the bounds of time and space)!
This people profess to worship a real God with
a positive body who must actually have posi-
tive space to dwell in. Why, when they have
rejected and ignored their views and senti-
ments on the most important points, should
they allow themselves to be led astray by the
little things which are so small and insignificant
in themselves. Truly it is "the little foxes that
spoil the wines."
	Unless they can entirely eradicate the feeling
that is now existing that it is necessary for their
neighbor or friend to reform, while they are them-
selves exempt, they can never expect to produce
any permanant good; where shall the reform
begin? Expressions like these are useless, my
friend spends so much, or practices such and
such extravagances, or has some very glaring
faults, but we have not been extravagant in
the least, we have kept ourselves aloof from
these excesses. To work upon this principle is
folly, because let every person be their own
judge, they are nearly or quite perfect. But if
they will begin to examine into their own con-
dition instead of that of their neighbor's, weed
their own gardens instead of peeping over the
fence to see how fast their neighbor's weeds
grow, then they may anticipate the accomplish-
ment of some thorough work, and a reforma-
tion thus commenced will extend by imitation
if nothing further, for it is so natural to try
to imitate each other that it would spread like
wildfire from family to family, and city to
country and from one settlement to another; in
fact the cities rule, silently, it may be, but
wherever there is a larger city or town all the
others ape the manners, the practices good or
bad of this leading town. So it remains if in
Salt Lake City they begin to economize
time, means and expenditures, the lesser
magnates will act after the pattern they set.
It is several years now since it has become
common to hear the remark made that people
outside in the settlements dreaded to let their
wives or daughters come to this centre stake of
Zion, lest they too should be carried away with
vanity and the fashions of Babylon. Dr. Mary
J. Stafford Blake in conversation with us re-
marked, "why I am surprised that you have
not advanced farther in "dress reform" living
out from the world, "why," said she "I saw
just as much style and quite as many laces rib-
bons and flowers in your tabernacle as I should
see in an assemblage of a like number in New
York or Boston.
	Men will protest both here and elsewhere
that woman is causing this extravagance, that
her insatiable vanity and love of admiration,
her desire to outdo or surpass her neighbor in
all her adornments of person or style, is the
leading or primary cause of bankruptcy, and all
other evils brought about by expense over in-
come. Men have actually frightened them-
selves into the belief that it is unsafe to marry,
it will require so much to keep their wives in
gew gaws. Well whose fault is it? Is it not their
own? Whom do men choose for their compan-
ions at balls, at operas, at theatres and else-
where? The fashionable stylish young lady, no


matter whether she can utter half a dozen sen-
sible remarks or not, if she is only "stunning"
according to modern parlance, that is the one
grand requisite; so forsooth, women who desire
to find favor in the eyes of the other sex must
dress in the latest style, however absurd they
may think it, and if they have their own ward-
robe to look after they have certainly no time
to improve their minds, or cultivate their hearts,
because they must hunt up silks and laces, get
ready for parties, return calls, and go through
all the round of fashionable life. Such women
are as much slaves as the servant girl in the
kitchen. Whoever will lead out in a thorough
reform is deserving of everlasting honor; but it
will require indomitable courage and persever-
ance. Will the sisters try to realize the
importance of their position in this day and
age? Remember in the commencement, Eve led
Adam, and to this day she is quoted as the au-
thor of man's misery and degeneracy.
	Very little can be said in a short article like
this upon a subject which is so vast and com-
prehensive, but one item more we would fain
add, and that is that woman can no doubt in-
troduce reform in very many respects, in her-
self and others and in generalities. Economiz-
ing time is one subject at present very little
thought of, many ladies waste their own time
and are the indirect cause of others losing
theirs, and also set an example which is exact-
ly at variance with the spirit of reform. Wo-
man's power and influence will have great
weight in this matter, and those who are will-
ing to lead out, deserve the reward they are
sure to obtain. The complaint has already
been made that there is "enthusiasm in this
direction:" there has been slackness in times
past, a little zeal and some enthusiasm may
counterbalance the scale and turn it in woman's
favor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDERS JOHN Taylor, George Q. Cannon,
and A. M. Cannon went North Tuesday morn-
ing, Sept. 7th, on a preaching tour through
Cache Valley.

	MARGETTS' COMBINATION Dramatic Troupe
are giving entertainments through the North-
ern settlements; report says, to full houses and
appreciative audiences.

	A MOST TRULY refreshing and well-timed
shower of rain fell Wednesday Sept. 8th, cool-
ing the atmosphere considerably and contribu-
ting some little towards allaying the dust which
has been flying in clouds, the past two weeks.

	THE EXCURSION to Cache Valley which left
Salt Lake city Sept. 7th, was most thoroughly
enjoyed by the participants, most of them re-
turning on the evening of the 9th, having real-
ized all the pleasure and recreation they antici-
pated.

	MR. JESSE Shepard a talented musical geni-
us has been giving a series of entertainments
in this city recently. He is a gentleman who
has had the benefit of the highest musical cul-
tivation, and possesses a most wonderful voice
in its range and compass. He has traveled ex-
tensively, and visited several European Sover-
eigns. His programme consisted principally of 
classic selections.

	MADAME OCTAVIA Walton Le Vert, who is
at present sojourning in this city will give her
"Readings" at the Presbyterian Church Thurs-
day evening Sept. 6th, at 8 o'clock. The enter-
tainment will be entirely of selections from her
own composition. She is a lady of refinement,
and an author of considerable note; has al-
ways moved in the society of literary and dis-

[Column 2]
tinguished people; was intimately acquainted
with Henry Clay, and many other celebrities
who have passed away.

	MONDAY MORNING Sept. 6th, President D.
H. Wells, and Elders Lorenzo Snow, Frank-
lin D. Richards, Junius Wells and others accom-
payning them, started on a tour through the
Southern settlements. President Young with
a party of ladies and gentlemen consisting of
relatives and friends escorted them on their
way as far as York. They intend first visiting
Sevier Co., and afterwards go South as far as
St. George before returning home. We wish
them a safe and pleasant journey, and may
abundant success attend their mission. At
Richfield they held Two-days' meetings Sept.
9th, and 10th, which were largely attended.

	MISS IDA Cook of this city, sister of Miss
Mary E. Cook, will open the High School in
Logan, Cache Co. on Monday morning Sept.
20th. Her reputation as a teacher is thoroughly
established here, as she has taught in different
parts of the city, also in Logan the past sum-
mer. She is a young lady of pleasing man-
ners, possessing intelligence, culture and refine-
ment and one infinitely calculated to carry an
influence for improvement among the circle
where she associates. Miss Anne Doremus,
daughter of Dr. Doremus of this city will also
open a ward school in Logan at the same time
Monday Sept. 20th.

	ON MONDAY morning Aug. 30th, Miss M. E.
Cook re-opened her Graded School in the So-
cial Hall. This lady is eminently qualified in
all respects to take charge of a school of this
kind, having had a long experience in teaching
schools arranged after this method in the East,
and herself possessing a superior education as
well as all those rare and estimable qualities
which are positively essential to persons having
charge of teachers and pupils combined. As
assistant teachers, she has in her employment
Miss Emma Wells, and in the Primary Depart-
ment, according to grade Miss Louisa Ashby in
charge of Third Readers etc.; Mrs. Camilla C.
Cobb Second Readers etc.; Miss Lucy String-
am First Readers Primers etc.

	MRS. Gen. C. A. Van Cort and Dr. Mary E.
Walker, after leaving this city visited Ogden,
where they were the recipients of much true
courtesy from the Bishop, President Richards
and C. W. Penrose. Dr. Walker delivered a
lecture there upon "dress-reform." She left
with the Editor of the Ogden Junction the
copy of a letter written in and of Salt Lake
City, for publication in the Oswego Palladium.
A part of this letter is published in the Ogden
Junction of Wednesday Sept. 8th, with a few
comments. We have a copy of a letter of Dr.
Walker's written here, but have not sufficient
space to publish it at present. It is entitled
"Towards The Setting Sun" "Letter Number
Three.


TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF 
ELIZA A FELT.
[Read at the Semi-Annual Meeting of the
17th Ward, Aug. 5th, 1875.]
	Dear Friends, I feel that to-day while we
are glad to clasp the hand of friendship and
love to look upon familiar faces, we should
think of one who has left us since our last
annual meeting. I remember so well how
anxious she was when we got up that re-
port, to do better in the future, and in a 
joking way told our President Sister Hyde,
that if we did not do better in the future we
ought to be discharged; yet in one month
she ceased to meet with us. I was closely


associated with Sister Felt for over seven
years in the society, and we never once dis-
agreed in performing our labors, which were
constant and sometimes trying. Yester-
day being the day appointed to prepare the
report, I could not but think of her and al-
most expected to see her come in with her
books, as had been her custom, to make up
the Society accounts. Yet I feel only we are
the losers, she has attained the victory, and
waits for us beyond. I cannot express my
feelings as I have handled her books and
examined her figures, and knew that the
dear hand that wrote them lies in the silent
grave.
	She died early in the morning on the 19th
of June and was buried on the evening of
the 20th, being Sunday. Calm and beauti-
ful was the day when we laid her down to
rest. Her funeral was largely attended, and
many hearts were wrung by her loss. She
looked calm and lovely in her rest and mer-
ciful Death had straightened and smoothed
away so many of the care lines on her face.
I thought how great is the reward which
she has won. According to the request of
our president, the officers of the Society,
namely, Sisters Hyde, Heywood, Reese, my-
self and Mother, accompanied her friends to
the cemetery, and each of us threw a bou-
quet upon her coffin, that as tokens of our
love they might mingle with her dust.
	To-day she is absent, but not forgotten;
and as each succeeding Annual Day shall
bring us together as a society, thoughts of
her will be with each of us, and her mem-
ory will be ever green, until we again shall
meet her, where "the wicked cease from
troubling and the weary are at rest,"
		Her sincere Friend,
				MRS. G. A. ALDER.


S. L. CITY; Sept. 9th; 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Being much interested in the work now
in progress among the sisters, and also an
agent for the EXPONENT, I have often
thought I would like to say a word through
its columns to all its numerous readers. In
selecting a subject I have chosen to speak
of one who has gone behind the vail, whose
life was that of a true saint; I allude to our
beloved Sister Eliza Hunt, wife of Bro.
John Thayne, who died on the 21st of June
1875. I would like to remember her to the
EXPONENT, she was a subscriber from the
commencement of it, and she often told me
she would not be without it for anything,
for she felt blessed in reading it. She al-
ways attended the meetings in the Four-
teenth Ward when she could ride, but was
not able to walk there, and was alive to
every duty that she could perform. Her
only desire in life was to do good. Before
her death she called for her oldest boy and
told him she was going to leave him that
he would soon have no mother, and she
wished him to obey his father, to be sure to
say his prayers, to attend the Sabbath school
and pay attention to what his teachers said:
Will you do this? she asked. He answered
yes, with tears in his eyes, and she soon fell
asleep. Her desire was to be put in a home-
made coffin, and to be carried to her last
resting place in a wagon. Her funeral was
attended by many friends. She was a good
faithful wife, a kind mother, and a true Lat-
ter-day Saint, full of integrity to her relig-
ion. She lived in polygamy about thirteen
years, and her actions spoke louder than
words can do, and she will reap the reward
of the righteous.
	MARGARET STEHL.
First Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I will tell you how I preserve apricots, and
other fruits to keep them whole.  I cut the
fruit and take the pits out and put in a jar;
then make the syrup, and pour it hot over
the fruit, and put it away until the next
day, when I drain off the juice and boil it
down to a syrup; cook it until it is done
when I take it up and put it away.  I put
about 3/4 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of apricots or
peaches.  It will keep a long time (if not
put on the table too often.)
	Another subject which is appropriate to
the time of year, is with regard to the little
children.  If we only knew what to do for
our little ones, how often we might save
them from suffering, or death.  If we find
our children ailing, especially the smaller
ones, we should use some simple remedy
immediately.  If I awake in the night and
find one of my children with a fever, I do
not wait till morning, but get up immedi-
ately and do something for it.  If very hot
I bathe them in warm water with some soda
thrown in.  A few drops of hemlock oil is
good to produce perspiration and cool a fever.
If inclined to vomit, perhaps there has been
something eaten that did not agree with the
stomach, and I help them to throw it off by
giving them a little salt and water, or some
gentle emetic.  I think I have saved my
children many times from sickness in that
way, and by not sleeping until morning,
leaving four or five hours for the disease to
get a hold upon the system.
	I suppose some will think it is unneces-
sary to write these things, as they know
them already, but many do not know them,
especially young mothers.  They are too
apt to rely on a doctor; they wait until the
little one is really very ill and then send for
the doctor, it is many times too late and we
are called upon to mourn over the lost one,
before we hardly realized their danger.
	Mothers, now is the time to watch
over your children.  Fruit is ripening, and
the busy season is coming on, people are
crowded for means and think they must
save all they can.  But don't neglect the
little ones; don't let them go cold or wet,
or eat fruit of all sorts to sour their stom-
achs or derange their systems.  Some may
think it strange that I say cold this season
of the year, but if you do, just dress your-
selves as children are often dressed, and lie
around on the floor of a cool pleasant room
or in the shade of a tree, and you will soon
see how cold you will be especially if your
blood is thin and you can not take active ex-
ercise.  A child sitting is more exposed
to draughts as well as more suscepti-
ble to the changes of the weather; while
the mother heated and weary with exercise,
and thinking of all there is do do, forgets
baby if he is good and allows himself to be
imposed upon.
	First we know baby is sick, and then the
fruit of our hard labor goes for medicines or
doctors, or, perhaps to lay baby away, and
our hearts ache and grieve for him, and the
only comfort we have is, that we have done
the best we knew how.  Perhaps so, but it
is our duty to learn all we can in regard to
these things, and lessen if possible the mor-
tality among our little ones.
							MARY.


LAZINESS grows on people; it begins in
cobwebs, and ends in iron chains.	The
more business a man has to do, the more he
is able to accomplish; for he learns to econo-
mize his time.—Judge Hale.


LEARN A TRADE.
		      	——
	I never look at my old steel composing
rule that I do not bless myself that, while
my strength lasts, I am not at the mercy of
the world.  If my pen is not wanted, I can
go back to the type-case and be sure to find
work; for I learned the printers trade
thoroughly—newspaper-work, job-work,
book-work, and press-work.  I am glad I
have got a good trade.  It is a rock upon
which the possessor can stand firmly.  There
is health and vigor of both body and mind
in an honest trade.  It is the strongest and
surest part of the self-made man.  Go from
the academy to the printing office, or the ar-
tisan’s bench, or, if you please, to the farm
—for, to be sure, true farming is a trade,
and a grand one at that.  Lay thus a sure
foundation, and after that branch off into
whatever profession you please.
	You have heard, perhaps, of the clerk who
had faithfully served Stephen Girard from
boyhood to manhood.  On the twenty-first
anniversary of his birthday he went to his
master and told him his time was up and he
certainly expected important promotion in
the merchant’s service.  But Stephen Gi-
rard said to him:—“Very well, now go and
learn a trade."
	“What trade, sir?”
	“Good barrels and butts must be in de-
mand while you live.  Go and learn the
cooper’s trade and when you have made a
perfect barrel bring it to me.”
	The young man went away and learned
the trade, and in time brought to his old
master a splendid barrel of his own make. 
	Girard examined it and gave the maker
two thousand dollars for it, and then said to
him:
	“Now, sir, I want you in my counting-
room; but henceforth you will not be de-
pendent upon the whim of Stephen Gi-
rard.  Let what will come, you have a good
trade always in reserve.”
	The young man saw the wisdom and un-
dorstood.		
	Years ago, when the middle-aged men of
to-day were boys, Horace Greely wrote:
	“It is a great source of consolation to us
that when the public shall be tired of us as
an editor, we can make a satisfactory livli-
hood at setting type or farming; so that
while our strength lasts, ten thousand block-
heads, taking offense at some article they
do not understand, could not drive us into
the poorhouse.”
	And so may a man become truly inde-
pendent.—Ex.


THE SALE OF DAUGHTERS.—The public
marts for the sale of young ladies are now
in full operation.  It is the height of the
season at fashionable watering places.  Hith-
er worldly-minded, ambitious, scheming
women repair with their marriageable
daughters, in pursuit of what are deemed
"eligible" matches—that is to say, matches
in which, for the sake of social or pecuniary
advantages, the hand is unaccompanied by
the heart.
	It is in vain to appeal to such women.
The motherly instinct appears to be eradi-
cated from their nature.  And yet they are
engaged in an undertaking but little elevat-
ed above the slave mart.  They are barter-
ing away the whole future of the lives of
their own children.  For these forced mar-
riages, springing, not from love in the
heart, but from base business calculations,
are sure to end in misery.—N. Y. Ledger,
Aug. 14, '75.


CARELESS HANDLING OF CHILDREN.

	 I wish to enter a protest in the name of
all nervous persons and of the injured lit-
tle ones against the reckless way in which
many needless persons express their love
for children, such as lifting tnem up by their
heads, tossing and catching them in the air,
carrying infants on their hands without any
support to their backs, and otherwise en-
dangering their limbs and senses.  I have
now in my mind the case of a man who
was rendered a cripple for life through his
father's carelessness in lifting him by the
ankles, while he was a small child, he (the
father) having unfortunately lost his balance
and turned the child's ankles in such a way
that he was lame ever afterward.  Two dif-
ferent persons have told me that they knew
too late, that by their thoughtless play with
them, they had seriously injured infants in-
trusted to their care, one case resulting in
spinal disease, and the other in fits.  And
yet it is a sight daily to be seen, that of peo-
ple doing these things.  Do give the little
folks tender handling! 
							B. C. D.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	A sister writing from Fairfield Utah Co. states
that essence of wintergreen is a prompt and effect-
ual remedy for "cholera infantum." Mix a small
quantity of the essence with a little water and su-
gar and give to the patient. The first dose will
sometimes do, the second has never failed in her
experience to make a perfect cure.
	Perspiration.—The unpleasant odor produced by
perspiration is frequently the source of vexation to
persons who are subject to it. Nothing is simpler
than to remove this odor much more effectually
than by the application of such costly unguents and
perfumes as are in use. It is only necessary to
procure some of the compound spirits of ammonia,
put about two tablespoonfuls in a basin of water.
Washing the face, hands and arms with this, leaves
the skin as clean, sweet and fresh as one could
wish. The wash is perfectly harmless, and very
cheap. It is recommended on the authority of an
experienced physician.
	The following rules for health are from a letter
published in the Herald of Health for August.
First, secure the requisite amount of sleep by tak-
ing out-door exercise after supper, and freeing the
mind from all anxious thought. Second, take full
three hours exercise out-doors daily, riding, walk-
ing, talking, in the open air. In winter substitute
rapid walking, horseback exercises, and in-door
gymnastics with the window open. Third, give
special attention to ventilation without draft; use
open grates with patent ventilators, and Anott's
valve in the ceiling; the first provides constant
fresh air and the latter an escape for foul air,
Fourth, diet; reject all tea, coffee, malt liquors
and stimulants, use little meat, eat slowly. Fifth,
bathe all over in cold water summer and winter;
and in winter a brisk walk after the bath produces
the best re-action; wet the head with cold water
night and morning. Sixth, for work, from eight
to twelve hours if brain work. Seventh, cultivate
a tranquil, contented and cheerful mind at all times.


THE production of Poultry in the United
States is about 250,000,000, the product of
eggs yielding a like amount of money.
	AN old gentleman of the name of Gould,
having married a very young wife, wrote a
poetical epistle to a friend to inform him of
it, and concluded thus:
	"So you see, my dear sir, though I'm eighty years old,
	A girl of eighteen is in love, with old Gould."
To which his friend replied—
	"A girl of eighteen may love Gould it is true:
	But believe me, dear sir, it is Gold without U."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps it would be gratifying
to your numerous readers to hear some-
thing from this out of the way place, as it
is very seldom that this place is represented
in your paper; perhaps it is not generally
known that we have a Relief Society here,
it has not been in a very flourishing condi-
tion for the past year.  A more faithful, en-
ergetic and persevering person than our
President, Mrs. Julia Lindsey, it would be
hard to find.  She is, indeed, one in a thou-
sand, and her perseverance under difficul-
ties that would discourage a common mind
have proven her possessed of the rare quali-
ties I have attributed to her, and her Coun-
selors are of the same stamp.  But there is
a slackness with the sisters in regard to at-
tending meetings.  If there is a case of
suffering or destitution they are ready with
open hands to relieve the poor and  sick, as
they have proven in a number of instances.
But they cannot, seemingly, get the spirit
of meetings; that is, as a general thing;
there are exceptions, of course.  Sister
Presinda Kimball passed through here on
her way to Soda Springs, a few weeks ago.
A meeting of the Society was called, at
which she gave some excellent instruction
concerning our duties as a society, and as
saints of the Most High.  There was quite
a large attendance, and we had an excellent
meeting.  A partial re-organization was
made, teachers appointed, and a universal
feeling prevails that we would strive to live
our religion more faithfully in future, and
endeavor to keep up the Society.  She re-
quested the sisters if they felt like it, to do-
nate a few pairs of garments for the Laman-
ites.  The teachers were instructed in their
visits to lay this before the sisters.  Enough
was collected to purchase cloth for eighteen
pairs of garments, which have been made
and will be sent the first opportunity. This
is like the widow's mite, but it serves to
show their willingness to respond when
called upon.
	A number of the Twelve visited this place
a short time ago.  Two days meetings were
held the 14th and 15th, of this month. The
meetings were well attended by the brethren
and sisters here and from the surrounding
settlements.  The speakers were filled with
the Spirit of God.  The people were re-
buked for their slackness and want of dili-
gence and faithfulness.  They were exhort-
ed to wake up, leave off their evil habits,
and prepare themselves for what was right
at their doors.  I think their visit will re-
sult in much good, as quite a number have
already been baptized into the United Or-
der.  An order which I firmly believe, if
properly carried out, as the Lord and His
servants intend it shall be, will be the means
of uniting this people so that no power can
prevail against them.  This is what Satan
is afraid of, and the reason he strives with
all the power he possesses to influence the
Saints to fight against it.  But truth will
prevail in spite of all opposition.  Then let
us be careful not to speak lightly of that
which comes from the servants and mouth-
pieces of the Almighty here in our midst.
	The sisters all desire the success of the
EXPONENT and would be glad to subscribe
for it, but greenbacks are very scarce.  We
are looking for better days.  May the Lord
bless you in your endeavors for the spread
of truth and intelligence is the prayer of
your sisters in the gospel,
	MRS. ALICE M. RICH, Sec'y,
	MRS. SARAH M POMEROY, Ass't
Paris, Bear Lake, Aug. 29th, 1875

[column2]
	SHAMBIG, RUSH VALLEY, Aug. 26th.
Dear Editor:
	I do not expect to write very much, it is
the first that I have ever written for the
EXPONENT, but I would like to say a few
words to the girls, to beware of what com-
pany they keep and associate with, and
what they say or do; I would say to them
—speak wrongfully of no one, and when a
person comes in, or they see them elsewhere,
be very careful not to mock them when
their back is turned; it is very wrong and
unjust, and the Lord will disown any one
who persists in these things; if the persons
be Mormons, Gentiles, Jews, or whosoever
they be, they should be treated as we would
like to be treated ourselves.  I would ad-
vise them to try and learn something that
will be of use to them, and to those that
they are or may be connected with, and ask
God our Father to fill them with His Holy
Spirit, that they may have wisdom and
comprehend the blessings that He hath in
store for the faithful, and accomplish a work
that is good and great.  And I say to you
girls—be prudent and wise in your daily
talk and actions through life; aim high, and
try and hit the mark; say and do all the
good you can, and no bad.  The evil spirits
and their influence are all around you, but do
not let them have any power over you; the
Lord will bless those who do His will and
obey his laws.
	Your sister in the gospel,
							C. S.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Some Points in Butter Making.–It is time to
skim when the fingers can be drawn through the
top without the cream close behind it. When
cream will do this it is about ripe enough to churn.
When cream foams in the churn it may be cured
by warming. Cream should not be churned as
soon as taken from the milk. It should be stirred
and allowed to ripen all alike. This will occur in
twelve hours or so. But cream should not stand
until whey is formed in the cream jar.

	 Rules for Pickling. –They are very simple and
easily followed, and if proper care be taken after
the washing is over, even the novice may have on
hand very toothsome pickles. Do not use metal
in any shape when pickling, –if you wish to boil
vinegar put it in a stone jar on the stove and use
wooden spoons and forks, or silver. The vinegar
is often the all-essential feature, and unless it be
good your work is in vain. Cider vinegar is su-
perior to other kinds, but be sure it is cider vine-
gar, –not a trashy compound of vitriol and acid
sold as cider or wine vinegar. Keep your pickles
in stone jars, never handle them with your fin-
gers, but use a wooden spoon, and keep them well
covered with vinegar and a bladder, or close cove-
er of some kind. It is not necessary to use a brass
kettle to make pickles green,–indeed it should be
considered criminal to boil them in one, and all who
care for health and life will never associate brass
with pickles.
	Cucumber Pickles. –The small, long kind are
best for pickles and those but half-grown are nicer
than the full-grown. Let them be freshly gather-
ed, pull off  the blossom, but do not rub them.
Pour over them a strong brine boiling hot, cover
closely, and let them stand all night. In the morn-
ing drain with or in a seive, and dry in a cloth. To
each quart of best cider vinegar put one-half ounce of
whole black peper, the same of ginger and allspice,
and one ounce of mustard seed,–add onions if
agreeable. When this pickled vinger boils up,
throw in the cucumbers, and make them boil as
quickly as possible for three or four minutes–no
longer. Put them in a jar with the boiling vine-
gar and cover closely. Made in this way, your


pickles will be tender, crisp and green. If the
color is not quite clear enough, boil the vinegar
over the next day, then pour over the cucumbers
and cover perfectly tight.


LITTLE LETTER.

[The following came to hand very late; but
it will do to consider the old proverb, "bet-
ter late than never," as well in this case as
in thousands of others. Ed.]

	Special to the EXPONENT. 
		SPRINGDALE KANE Co. U. T.
						July 27th, 1875.

	Since the 22nd the thermometer has
ranged from 68 to 100 in the shade. Last
Friday the heat was intense.
	We have our Sunday meetings and schools
regular here. The boys have the privilege
of talking too. Some of them can speak
very well.
	The apricots are all gone; the peaches,
apples and figs are getting ripe; the green
corn has grown too big to eat; the small
grain is harvested; the grape crop will be
heavy this year.
	With good wishes to the Northern peo-
ple, I remain your servant,
			EDWIN M. GREENE.


BOYS.
			   —
   The tired mother when nightfall comes,
can not help drawing a long sigh at the
sight of her boys' torn jackets and trowsers;
and her aching head may whirl as with
gleeful shouts they come trooping into the
room in rough-and-tumble fashion. But
with what loving tenderness does she not
endure all their noise, and sympathize in
their sports, if she be a true mother?
Somewhat such feelings as these which are
put in verse she bears in her heart:

	"Boys will be boys'—but not for long;
	Ah, could we bear about us
	This thought—how very soon our boys
	Will learn to do without us!

	How soon but tall and deep-voiced men
	Will gravely call us 'Mother;'
	Or we be stretching empty hands
	From this world to the other!

	More gently we should chide the noise,
	And when night quells the racket,
	Stitch in but loving thoughts and prayers,
	While mending pants and jacket!"


LITTLE FOLKS.

	A LITTLE girl at school read thus: "The
widow lived on a limbacy left her by a rela-
tive."
	"What did you call that word?" asked
the teacher; "the word is legacy, not limb-
acy?"
	"But," said the little girl, "my sister says
I must say limb, not leg."—Boston Courier.

	BOYS, THINK OF THIS!—Boys, did you
ever think that this world, with all its
wealth and woe, with all its mines and
mountains, oceans, seas and rivers, with all
its shipping, its steamboats, railroads and
magnetic telegraphs, with all its millions of
grouping men, and all the science and pro-
gress of ages, will soon be given over to the
boys of the present age—boys like you?
Believe it and look abroad upon your inheri-
tance, and get ready to enter upon its pos-
session. The presidents, kings, governors,
statesmen, philosophers, ministers, teachers,
men of the future—all are boys now.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	Hope is a light diet, but very stimulat-
ing.
	SOME mourn more the shame which sin
brings, than the sin which brings the shame.
	THE slightest excess of expenses over in-
come is poverty, and the slightest excess of
income over expenses is wealth.
	IT is observed that in strawberry short-
cake, it is not the cake that is short, but the
strawberries.
	THE worst sign of an age is not evil liv-
ing, but low standards and cynical judg-
ments; though, indeed, these two go to-
gether.
	SNEER, if you will, like a fool, at the sug-
gestion of reform, morals, religion; every
man knows that all there is of true life is
personal virtue and rectitude of character.
	IF thou art rich, thou art poor; for, like
an ass, whose back with ingots bows, thou
bearest thy heavy riches but a journey, and
death unloads thee.—Shakspeare.
	THE intimacy begotten over a wine bottle
has no heart.  I never knew a good feeling
to come from it, or an honest friendship
made by it.  It only entices men and ruins
them.—Thackeray.
	THE foundation of-domestic happiness is
faith in the virtue of woman; the founda-
tion of political happiness, temporal and
eternal, is reliance on the goodness of Provi-
dence.
	LET every person so live that he can go
to bed in peace with himself at night. No
matter who else fights with him, don't let
that little grumbler called conscience have
good grounds for putting in his roar.
	THAT farmer understood human nature
who said—"If you want to keep your boy
at home don't bear too hard on the grind-
stone when he turns the crank."
	"Now, then, children," said a parish
school-mistress, showing her children off on
examination day; "Who loves all men?"
"You, missus," was the unexpected reply.
	GAIL Hamilton thinks school exhibitions
are fearfully and wonderfully contrived to
use up pupils, and break down teachers, and
take all the substance out of what should be
an education.
	PROSPERITY has its "sweet uses" as well
as adversity, for no sooner does a man come
into a little property than he learns the
number of his friends; whereas, if he had
remained poor he would probably have died
in perfect ignorance of the fact.
	HORACE Greeley once sent a message to
Mr. Dana, who couldn't read it, and the boy
brought it back, and without saying a word
laid it on Mr. Greeley's table. "What is
this?" said Horace; "what does the fool
mean?" "Well," said the boy, "that's just
what Mr. Dana said."
	A MIDDLE-AGED gentleman paid his ad-
dresses to a very young lady, but when he
asked her in marriage, was refused.  Hav-
ing acquainted a neighboring clergyman of
his disappointment, he received the follow-
ing laconic answer: "You ask and receive
not, because you ask a-miss.
	ROSWELL complained to Johnson that the
noise of the company the day before had
made his head ache.  "No, sir, it was not
the noise that made your head ache; it was
the sense we put into it." Has sense that
effect upon the head?" "Yes, Sir on heads
not used to it.


FLOWERS.

	THE lights of earthly promotion lift us
no whit nearer heaven. It is easier to step
there from the lowly vale of humiliation
and sorrow.
	THEY that deny a God destroy man's no-
bility, for certainly man is kin to the beast
by his body; and if he is not kin to God by
his spirit, he is a base and ignoble creature.
	WISDOM and truth, the offspring of the
sky, are immortal; but cunning and decep-
tion, the meteors of the earth, after glitter-
ing for a moment, must pass away.—Robert
Hall.
	AN unchanging state of joy is not possi-
ble on earth as it now is, because evil and
error are here. The soul must have its sea-
son of joy and gladness. Still the mercy of
the Lord is shown as much in the night as 
in the day.
	NOT alone to know, but to act according
to thy knowledge is thy destination,—pro-
claims the voice of my inmost soul, not for
indolent contemplation and study of thyself,
nor for brooding over emotions of piety,—
no, for action was existence given thee; thy
actions, and thy actions alone determine thy
worth—Fichte.
	A GOOD CONSCIENCE.—How bravely a
man can walk the earth, bear the heaviest
burdens, perform the severest duties, and
look all men boldly in the face, if he only
bears in his breast a clear conscience, void
of offence toward God and man. There is
no spring, no spur, no inspiration like this.
To feel that we have omitted no task, and
left no obligation undischarged, this fills
the heart with satisfaction and the soul with
strength.


[Column 1]
—NEW—
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S. P. TEASDEL'S.

	Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels, Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduced Prices. Boys' and Childrens'
Clothing. Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

CALL AT
TAYLOR & CUTLER'S
AND SEE THEIR LARGE STOCK OF
GROCERIES, DRY GOODS, BOOTS AND 
SHOES, CAPS, CLOTHING, &c.,
At Greatly Reduced Rates.

MILLINERY.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Column 2]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
A[--]ICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN 
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for
ONE YEAR.

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO 
W. HARRISON'S,
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done, Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of 
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Milinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
		29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1875. 	    No. 9.


For the EXPONENT.
			AUTUMN.

In the mellow sunlight of the Autumn brown,
When the golden sheaves the reaper's harvest crown,
And the "sere and yellow leaves" rustle 'neath our feet
We recall past mem'ries, tender sad and sweet.
Visions of our childhood, dreamy, bright and gay
Come again as erst in fancy's bright array,
And the glowing picture touched with rays of light,
From the years long gone, bursts upon our sight.

The morning birds sung sweeter then their tuneful praise,
And woodland, grove and valley echoed with their lays;
While in joyous answer, ev'ry pulse was beating,
Each melodious strain of the bird-note greeting;
Little recked we then, of toilsome years to come;
O the blessed memory of our childhood's home,
How it clusters, round us 'midst the fallen leaves.
And the spell enchanting which our fancy weaves.

As the shades of evening, shadows dimly cast,
There comes a gentle whisper breathing of the past,
And a voice prophetic, sighing 'mong the trees
Sounds a mournful requiem with the passing breeze,
And to meditation are our spirits led,
Involuntarily our thoughts are of the dead,
And we question, asking of "our Father" where
Are OUR DEAD, the fondly loved, the beautiful and fair?

O what mighty lessons nature doth impart,
In its silent language speaking to the heart,
Of a living presence, all unseen, prevading here,
Spirit intuition of a higher sphere.
Who shall say there lingers not a latent thought within
Of the spirit home, where free from pain and sin
We dwelt in Paradise--consenting thus to come,
To fill a FOREIGN MISSION, a pilgrim from our home?
									EMILE.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 29th, 1873


[column 1]
REMARKS ON THE RESURRECTION.

		SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 13, 1875.

PRESIDENT B. YOUNG.

	My Dear Brother—In accordance with your
wish, I beg leave to present the following views
of an article in the Woman's Exponent of Sept.
1, 1875, and bearing the signature of Miss Eliza
R. Snow, entitled, "Mortal and Immortal Ele-
ments of the Human Body."
	Permit me here, Sir, to premise that I regret
exceedingly being under the necessity of differ-
ing from my dear Sister Eliza Snow, whom I
have always esteemed, and do now consider
to be one of the most upright, intelligent, hon-
orable and exemplary ladies in the world; but
as it is principle that we are all after, and one
of the great fundamental truths of heaven is
involved, I am sure that she, in common with
all lovers of truth, will excuse me for the free-
dom I have taken with her expressed and pub-
lished views. We have always been taught
that Jesus holds the keys of the resurrection,
and, as there are principles involved that con-
cern all the inhabitants of the world that have
lived, or do live, it is important that we do not
make mistakes on so grave a matter.
	In the above named article we are told that
"we are in possession of a very important and
beautiful principle, which pours a flood of light
into the mind,' &c. And again, "But, thanks
be to God for the key which solves the mys-
tery." Every organized human body, inde-
pendent of the spirit (which is a separate organ-
ization), is composed of two distinct grades or
classes of matter, and in such mutual combina-
tion as to serve the purposes of this lower ex-
istence. I beg here, Sir, to refer you to the
article, and will say, that if God had given
revelation, presented a key unfolding the mys-
teries of the resurrection, I would bow in hum-
ble submission; but I know of no such prin-
ciple, nor key; nor do I believe that any such
has been revealed, for which I have the most
satisfactory reasons. In the first place, I ought
to have known, in common with my brethren,
if such a principle had been revealed; and again,
[column 2]
it is in conflict with all the revelations and
teachings we have had on this subject.
	On reading the article the following thoughts
occurred to me—what did the spirit obtain by
taking a body? Was it not a body of flesh and
bones and blood? Did man ever possess any
other kind of body? Paul says, "The first man
Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam
was made a quickening spirit." 1 Cor. xv, 45.
	"The first man is of the earth, earthy; the
second man is the Lord from Heaven." Was
the Lord's body different from ours? He was
born of a virgin, and passed through all the
phases of birth, childhood, and manhood; he
ate and drank and slept; he lived and died as
man, and as man was resurrected; he ate after
his resurrection. "They gave him a piece of a
broiled fish, and of an honey comb. And he
took it, and did eat before them." Luke xxiv,
42-3 He also said to his disciples, "Behold my
hands and my feet, that it is I myself : handle
me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and
bones, as ye see me have." Ver. 39, 40. "Then
said he to Thomas, "Reach hither thy finger,
and behold my hands; and reach hither thy
hand, and thrust it into my side." John XX,
27. Was not this the same body? Were there
"two distinct grades or classes of matter" here,
as stated in that article?
	We are again told, "The graves were opened,
and many bodies of the saints which slept
arose, and came out of the graves after his
resurrection, and went into the Holy City, and
appeared unto many." Matt. xxcii. 52-3.
These resurrected bodies also appeared to many
and were known by them. There was no
"precious germ of an immortal tabernacle," as
stated in that article, but a tabernacle com-
plete; seen, known, felt, moving, speaking and
eating, at least with Jesus. What of Jesus'
tabernacle? We are told that he was "anointed
with the oil of gladness above his fellows.'
We are also told that "if the same spirit dwell
in you that raised up Christ from the dead, it
shall also quicken your mortal body." Did
Jesus and will man have a glorified body?
	Yes; but that certainly did not rest in the
grave. Is there, as stated, "a precious germ,"
or spiritual body, separate and distinct from
the above? If so, does it die, and where is it?
Does it partake of the elements of nature? Is
there anything earthly that is not "gross,
divisible and transferable?" If not, can any
matter be eliminated from this gross material,
which is not subject to nature's laws? If these
"substances are borrowed," as stated, "for pro-
bationary use," where is the substance that is
not borrowed? Of what is it composed, and
where does it exist? We are, indeed, told that
the pure substance, the germ of an immortal
tabernacle, "sleeps in mother earth in ac-
cordance with celestial law." I again ask,
where is that germ and where that law? It is
a beautiful theory, pleasing and poetic. Is it
true? If these questions cannot be answered
satisfactorily, should it be published?
	Brother Joseph Smith said in Nauvoo, re-
ferring to a tomb that he had built there, that
when he "arose from his tomb he expected to
strike hands with his father, mother and
brothers, those who would be there and rise
into life with him."
	Ezekiel tells us that he saw bone come to his
bone and sinew and flesh come upon them,
and the skin cover them. Ezek. xxxvii. Paul
says, "It is sown a natural body, it is raised a
spiritual body; there is a natural body, and
there is a spiritual body." What is the natu-
ral body? The body of flesh and bones and
blood, that died and was buried. What is the
spiritual body? The same body with flesh and
bones and spirit, the spirit occupying the place
of blood. I have heard President Joseph Smith
say that spirit would occupy the place of blood.
Hence, "The first man Adam was made a liv-
ing soul, the last Adam was made a quickening
spirit." 1 Cor. xv. 45. The same body arises
with all its component parts; but spirit takes
the part of blood. Blood was the life of the
natural body, as Moses says, "But flesh with
the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat." Gen. ix. 4. "I will even set my
[column 3]
face against that soul that eateth blood, and
will cut him off from among his people. For
the life of the flesh is in the blood." Lev.
xvii. 10.
	There is also another principle mentioned by
Paul, viz., the Holy Ghost. "If the same spirit
dwell in you that raised up Christ from the
dead, IT shall also quicken your mortal bodies."
Your what? Your mortal bodies. These bodies
that have been susceptible of all the infirmities
and weakness of humanity. We are told that
"flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of
God, nor corruption inherit incorruption." But
we are not told that flesh and spirit can not
inherit the Kingdom of God. Paul says,
"Know ye not that your body is the temple of
the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have
of God." 1 Cor. vi, 19. Again, "Know ye not
that ye are the temple of God, and that the
Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" 1 Cor., iii, 16.
Now if that spirit dwells in our bodies and
quickens them as it did the body of Jesus, here
is a principle for us to reflect upon. But we
must remember that it is our mortal body that
is quickened by it, and not, as stated, "the
precious germ of an immortal tabernacle."
Brother Joseph Smith taught, "You can tell
the difference between spirits and resurrected
bodies by the touch. You cannot feel a spirit,
you can a resurrected body." Again, "A spirit
hath not not flesh and bones, as ye see me have."
Luke xxiv, 39.
	But again, Paul says, "All flesh is not the
same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men,
another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and
another of birds." 1 Cor. xv. 39.
	Joseph Smith taught the same doctrine as
that of Paul, and stated that "The flesh of man
cannot enter into, be united with, or compose
the component parts of the flesh; but that
the elements of man's body remain distinct
from that of every other body." I have heard
you, sir, state the same thing and say that
"the component parts of man's body can never
be destroyed; and that the body will always
retain its identity." This is strictly in accord-
ance with other laws of nature, in regard to
many mineral substances, which retain their
separate identity; such for instance as gold,
silver, copper, iron and other minerals, all of
which retain their separate parts and identity,
and all of which can be separated, by a chemi-
cal process, from any one of the other. I am
inclined to think that Sister Eliza has drawn
her ideas from the above stated doctrine we can
all acquiesce in, but not in that which is super-
added.
	The Holy Ghost, above alluded to, dwells in
the body of man, and when the power of God
is manifested by Jesus Christ, who is, "the
resurrection and the life," the whole body is
quickened, as by a magnetic fire, and bursts
forth into newness of life, as stated in the Book
of Mormon—"The paradise of God must de-
liver up the spirits of the righteous, and the
grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and
the spirit and the body is restored to itself
again, and all men become incorruptible and
immortal, and they are living souls, having a
perfect knowledge like unto us in the flesh."
2 Nephi, chap. vi, par. 5.
	What have we to do with the theories of
men in regard to the reorganization and re-
surrection of the body? If God has decreed it,
and we have faith in it, will not that do?
Yet some of Nature's laws exhibit a very strik-
ing analogy. A steam engine is a beautiful
machine, and possesses great power, either sta-
tionary or as a locomotive; but its power de-
pends upon the power or action of steam; the
engine without the steam could accomplish
nothing, nor could the steam without the en-
gine. The body of man living is a magnificent
piece of machinery, the most perfect of God's
creation, and is made in His own image. His
body, however, without the spirit, is dead and
inanimate. The body dead possesses before its
decay its form, members and organs, its bones,
muscles, veins, arteries, nerves and all its com-
ponent parts; but, like the engine without


steam, so the body without the spirit is inert,
powerless and dead.  If when in action any part
of the steam engine is disorganized, it loses its
force and power; so does the body when de-
ranged or deceased; but the engine is still the 
same.  Sometimes the body is more fleshy and
robust than at other times; but it is still the
same body, and does not lose its identity. The
iron, brass, etc., of which the engine is com-
posed may be decomposed, but not destroyed;
those same properties could again be united by
chemical action; not indeed the same form
without remanipulation, but the body, being
under other and higher laws than we compre-
hend, laws associated with and governing the
principles of life, can be reorganized.  Those
laws, though strictly scientific, are beyond our
comprehension and baffle our ideas, which are
framed from a very imperfect knowledge of
some of the first and most common principles of
natural law.  Hence it is said, "No man knows
the things of God, but by the Spirit of God."
"Great is the mystery of godliness, God man-
ifested in the flesh."  Who can explain the
mystery of the formation of a shrub, a flower,
even a blade of grass?  Yet these are natural
things.  What of man, the noblest work of
God, in his organization, birth, growth, life,
death and futurity; his body and spirit; their
union, points of contact and separation; the
resurrection of the body; its reunion with the
spirit; his past, present and future? What
human philosophy can solve this problem?
What is meant by "the gross, volatile matter"
of the body or earth? Is there any matter con-
nected with man, beast, bird, fowl, fish, insect,
tree, shrub or plant: with animal or vegetable
life; or any matter of which the earth, air or
water is composed, that is not indestructible and
eternal? When "the elements shall melt with
fervent heat," will there be any part de-
stroyed? Not one particle.  If this be true in
relation to the earth, why not in relation to the
body of man?  Why should the decomposition
and changes incident to mortality render im-
possible their rearrangment, reconstruction
and reorganization?  A man can take one of the 
finest metals-gold, and by chemical action re-
duce it to a very fine powder, and blow it away
and cause it to be mixed and absorbed by other
matter; he can, by another process, gather,
separate, and restore that gold to its previous
solidity and fineness.  Cannot God do as much
with matter as man, with his limited capacity?
We are cited very correctly to a higher law,
whereby Jesus turned water into wine,
"through the agency of chemical laws of a 
higher order than those taught in the schools,"
by the concentration of elements, independent
of the process of the growth of grapes and their
manipulation into wine.  Could not the same
science and power gather the original elements
of man's body and, by a chemical, cohesive,
and attractive power, cause atom to cohere
and unite with atom, part with part; bone
unite with its bone, and sinews come upon
them, and they be covered with flesh and skin,
and stand up, as Ezekiel saw them, "a living
army?" If one can be accomplished by a su-
perior chemistry, why not the other?  Or, in
Scriptural terms, "I wi[-]l open your graves,
and cause  you to come up out of your graves.
*	*	*	* 	And ye shall know that
I AM THE LORD. *	*	*	And
shall put my Spirit in you, and ye shall live,
and I shall place  you in your own land; then
shall ye know that I the Lord have spoken it,
and performed it, saith the Lord." Ezek. xxxii,
12-14. But why should we feel ourselves
called upon to answer all the fancied objec-
tions of an assumed philosophy, in many in-
stances false; to solve its incoherent problems,
or unravel its incongruous enigmas? I do not
feel myself called upon to admit that all the
elements composing the human body pass
through all the changes assumed by what is
termed "a worldly-wise philosophy;" nor that
the principal component, constituent parts of
the human body "feed the cow, the sheep and
the goose;" nor do I believe the statement that
"we can trace the same identical matter,
divided and sub-divided."  Who can trace it?
This is mere assertion.  That the blood and
certain gases emanate from the body and
fertilize the earth would not be denied; but that
the component parts of the body do this re-
mains to be proven. If gold, silver and other
metals can be eliminated from the earth, and
other metals by chemical process, why not all
the component parts of the body by the Spirit
and power of God?  Job evidently believed in
the resurrection of his own body in its entirety.
He said, "And though after my skin worms
destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see
God: Whom I shall see for myself, and mine
eyes shall behold, and not another."  Job. xix.
26[-]7. Eaten by worms, he would still be resus-
citated and see his Redeemer with his own eyes.
Jesus says, "I am the resurrection, and the 
life."  John xi. 25. "All that are in the graves--
shall hear his voice, And shall come forth."
John v. 28-9.  Paul says that "God giveth
*	*	to every seed his own body." 1 Cor.
xv. 38.  "And the sea gave up the dead which
were in it; and death and hell delivered up the
dead which were in them." Rev. xx, 13. If
the same body be not resurrected it cannot be a 
resurrection, but a new creation.  The Prophet
Amulek, in the Book of Mormon, is very plain
on this subject; he says, "The spirit and the
body shall be reunited again in its perfect
form: both limb and joint shall be restored to
its proper frame; even as we now are at this
time.	*	*	There shall not so much as
a hair of their heads be lost; but all things shall
be restored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or
in the body." Alma, chap, viii, par. 10. Alma
says, "The soul shall be restored to the body,
and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb
and joint shall be restored to its body: yea, even
a hair of the head shall not be lost, but all
things shall be restored to their proper and
perfect frame."  Alma, chap. xix, par. 7.
Again we read-"Then shall the Jews look
upon me and say, What are these wounds in
thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they
know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto
them, These wounds are the wounds with
which I was wounded in the house of my
friends." Doc. and Cov., sec. xv, par. 9. See
also Zech. xii, 10, and Rev. 1, 7.  There we see
that Jesus will again shew his wounds, in his
resurrected body, the same body and the same
wounds that he received at his death; his
wounded body.  And again, "For notwith-
standing they die, they also shall rise again a
spiritual body: they who are of a celestial spirit
shall receive the same body which was a natu
ral body; even ye shall receive your bodies,
and  your glory shall be that glory by which
your bodies are quickened." Doc. and Cov.,
sec. vii, par. 6. And then at the final con-
summation we are told that, "All things shall
become new, even the heaven and the earth,
and all the fulness thereof, both men and
beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the
sea; and not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost,
for it is the workmanship of mine hand."
Doc. and Cov., sec. x. par. 6.
	All revelation gives striking evidence of the
same body, in its entirety, coming forth, not as
a germ, but in its likeness, fulness, form, parts
and personality.
	The above, my dear sir, is respectfully sub-
mitted, in which I hope I have not done in-
justice to our esteemed Sister, Eliza Snow.
		I remain your Brother,
			Very Respectfully,
					JOHN TAYLOR.
Deseret News.


66						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	Senator Morton recently delivered a 
speech at Pittsburg, Penn., on the financial
problem......Judge Harrison died of apo-
plexy at Denver......Two trapeze perform-
ers in New York fell while exhibiting and
are, it is believed seriously injured......Cali-
fornia celebrated the twenty-fifth anniver-
sary of her admission to the Union, Sept.
9th......The American Institute of Archi-
tects will hold their ninth annual conven-
tion in Baltimore for three days commen-
cing Nov. 17th......Prof. Baird the U. S.
Fish commissioner is making an exact coun-
terpart in plaster of paris of every species
of fish, for the Centennial Exhibition......
The Kanzas Central and Black Hills Narrow
Gauge Railroad Company have organized
at Omaha with $100,000......San Francisco
is to build a separate establishment for the 
colored children in her limits as the author-
ities will not allow them in the public
schools......Most of the creditors of Duncan
Shearman & Co. have agreed to the proposi-
tion of a settlement of 33 1/3 per cent......It
[column 2]
has been suggested that every theatre in
America and Great Britain in Apr. 1876,
give a performance for the benefit of the 
Shakesperian Fund.........Several hundred
boxes of a certain size, have been mnnufac-
tured by Chinese at Sacramento to convey
home to China the bodies of Celestials who
die in the United States......Forest fires
have been raging lately near Massena, N.
Y., destroying large tracts of timber and
fields of grain......The Yellow fever is again
prevailing in Mississippi and Florida......
The funeral of the late Judge Lewis Wood-
ruff of the United States Court, was held at
Collegiate Church, Fifth Avenue on the 11th
of Sept. Rev Dr. Ormiston delivered the
oration......The Palace Hotel, San Francisco,
opens to-day, October 1st, the inaugural cer-
emonies comprise a banquet and reception.
			PERSONAL.
	Edwin Booth is recovering very slowly;
it is said he will have to cancel some engage-
ments......Daniel Webster's home at Mans
field Mass. was burned on the 8th of Sept.
......The Earl of Huntington is dead......
Cardinal McCloskey will take the title of 
"The Church of Santi Marie Supre Miner-
vam.........Florence Marryatt (Mrs. Ross
Church) editor of the "London Society, is
about to make her debut on the public stage.
......Mr. Robert Dale Owen's health is im-
proving......Peter Cooper was the designer
of the first locomotive ever turned out up-
on this continent, and the first to roll
wrought iron beams for fire-proof buildings.
......Capt. Lakebirch recently celebrated his
109th, birthday at his residence in New 
York City.....Max Muller has a new vol-
ume in press on the science of language......
The Pope's health has so much improved
that he celebrated mass lately in the Sis-
tine Chapel......The Prince of Wales, dur-
ing his stay in India will be invested with
the Grand Cross of the Star of India.
			FOREIGN.
	A severe hurricane continuing two days
occurred recently, causing serious damage
to vessels at Santiago de Cuba and Celen-
fungoes.....There was a terrific gale on the 
12th of Sept. in the Mediteranean and on 
the coasts, railways in some places were
flooded and traffic interrupted, many hous-
es were destroyed......A money crisis is 
thought to be impending in the Prussian
Government......In Paris recently, the di-
rectress of a female industrial school was
fined 100 frances and imprisoned for three
months for ill-treating the children.....The
Khedive of Egypt has sent 3 men-of-war
to the Egyptian coast near Abyssinia, to
punish the blacks invading Egyptian Terri-
tory......Sir Edmond Ryan, Vice Chancelor
of the University of London, died on the
25th of August aged 80 years......There is a 
general depression in the European money
markets, owing to dull trade and fears of
political complications......A great fire oc-
curred at Paderbom, Prussia on the 12th of
Sept; 100 buildings were destroyed and 500
families made homeless.....The Prince of 
Wales expects to spend Christmas day in 
Madras, India. The reception tendered him
will be of surpassing magnificence.


AN elderly gentleman returning home
from church, began to extol the merits of
the sermon to his son. Said he:—"Jack,
I have heard one of the most delightful
sermons ever delivered before a Christian
society. It carried me to the gate of heav-
en." "Why didn't you dodge in?" replied
Jack; "You will never have another such
chance."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						67


BEAUTIFUL THINGS.

Beautiful faces are those that wear--
It matters little if dark or fair--
Whole-souled honesty printed there.

Beautiful eyes are those that show,
Like crystal panes where hearth-fires glow,
Beautiful thoughts that burn below.

Beautiful lips are those whose words
Leap from the heart like songs of birds,
Yet whose utterance prudence girds.

Beautiful hands are those that do
Work that is earnest, and brave, and true,
Moment by moment, the long day through.

Beautiful feet are those that go
On kindly ministries to and fro—
Down lowliest ways, if God wills it so.

Beautiful shoulders are those that bear
Ceaseless burdens of homely care,
With patient grace and daily prayer.

Beautiful lives are those that bless—
Silent rivers of happiness,
Whose hidden fountains but few may guess.

Beautiful twilight, at set of sun,
Beautiful goal, with race well won,
Beautiful rest, with work well done.

Beautiful graves where grasses creep,
Where brown leaves fall, where drifts lie deep
O'er worn-out lands—Oh, beautiful sleep!


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Sept. 11th, 1875, was one in which
all present manifested the utmost interest.
The Spirit of God seemed to pervade every
heart. President Mrs. M. I. Horne made
the opening remarks, in a spirit and with a 
feeling calculated to impress all present with
her sincerity and earnestness in the work
commenced among the sisters. She an-
nounced to the assembly Madame Le Vert
—who arose and spoke to them; expressing
herself pleased to meet with them; also
that she had been gratified in meeting, in
Salt Lake City, so many intelligent and 
charming ladies, and she had never in all
her travels, seen such devotion and sincer-
ity to religion, as she had seen among the
ladies in Utah; that she had also found them
uniformly charitable and benevolent, and
she said "When I am far away in my home
on the shores of Mexico, I shall ever think
of the ladies of Salt Lake with pleasure."
She closed her remarks by saying, "May
God bless you as I am sure that He will."
Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Hannah T King, Mrs. E.
S. Barney, Mrs. M. I. Horne and Br. Camp
each made remarks of an interesting and
instructive character, in regard to the Fall
of Babylon, the HOME INDUSTRIES, the 
Reformation, and various other subjects.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 18th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT: 
	A short synopsis of the Annual Meeting
of the 19th Ward R. S., held at the Ward
Hall, Aug. 18th. The house was nearly filled
by the Sisters of the Ward. Bishop A. H.
Raleigh, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. M. P. Young, were present. After
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
the minutes of previous meeting and the
three quarterly reports were read. The
three reports combined show the following
result:
Donations in Provisions............ $ 50 22
	"	" Merchandise......... 53 70
	"	" Labor..................... 10 00
		Total........................... 122 02
Disbursements to the poor.......... 121 69
		Remaining................... 1 23

[Column 2]
Cash donations............................ 38 70
For the loan of Temple Clothes...	15 00
Made by exchanges.....................	11 00
Interest on money loaned.............	 6 00
		Total.............................	70 80
Disbursed Cash............................	87 60
	Twenty-four yards of linsey and twenty-
eight and one-half yards of carpeting have
been made by the society, and two suits of
temple clothes and ten pairs of garments for
the Indians, in the nine months intervening
since our last annual meeting. President
Mrs. A. A. Pratt then said she was glad to
see so many there that did not usually at-
tend, for it must be pleasant for those who
donated to know what was done with the 
means; she would not make more remarks as
she wished to hear from others. Bishop
Raleigh gave an interesting discourse on 
the duties of women as Latter-day Saints,
and especially as wives, mothers and house-
keepers. Miss E. R. Snow said that she 
knew we were weak, frail creatures, and as
an ancient apostle said, "subject to vanity,"
but that we should not be discouraged. The
fruits of the gospel were charity, long-suf-
fering, joy and peace, but other spirits had
crept into our hearts. Our Heavenly Father
accepts of no compromise. He gives us
law and we must live up to it. We must
let Rabylon go; as he said to ancient Israel,
Choose ye this day whom ye will serve.
He has given us another chance. Let us 
awake; we have all been asleep. Let us
put on the whole armor of God. We are
not called to be judges in Israel, but Saviors
and helpmeets to do good. Have we walked
in the straight and narrow path? I think
not. We don't know each other by our
dress or looks from those in Babylon. In
Kirtland we could tell a stranger or an apos-
tate. We have got to lay off Babylon.
Pres. Young has said that he would organ-
ize the United Order here in Salt Lake city
and did not want any one to enter who was
not willing to dispense with everything that
was superfluous. Said as a community all
were together, but here they would diverge
and get so far apart they would not know
what they were doing. The priesthood is 
not going to say what we shall do. It is a 
choosing time and we should do the choosing
ourselves. Here is a mission for the sisters;
all virtuous women should be members of
the Relief Society. We have been slaves
to fashion, but must be so no more; we 
must be self-sustaining. Let the sisters
think what they can wear that is Zion made.
Said there was a sister coming from Eng-
land who can spin the silk, and machinery
was being brought to weave it. The sisters
can do a great deal about getting out the
mulberry trees. Solomon, it is said, built
the temple, but it was not so much by his 
work, it was by his influence. We must be
prayerful and humble ourselves so that God
may not have to humble us. I want my
feelings absorbed in Zion. I don't call in 
question am I able? I ask the Lord to give
me strength to do what is required of me,
but I do not wait for the strength to come
before I make the effort, we must start then 
he will help us. We want a determination
as strong as the everlasting hills, to do the 
will of God. Let us be like the holy women
of old who adorned themselves but it was
not the outward adorning of apparel. I
hope that each one of us will be numbered
with those who have oil in their lamps and
attain to a fulness in the eternal worlds.
	Mrs. M.I. Horne. I feel that the time
has been well spent and that it would be
well for us to educate ourselves in what we
have just heard; we have a great deal to do 
to qualify ourselves for the station we are
seeking to fill. If we have been extrava-

[Column 3]
gant let us learn to be economical. Let us
arouse ourselves and prepare for those things
that are coming upon us. Four or five
years ago Pres. Young called on us to estab-
lish retrenchment, and I think this is a pre-
paratory work. There is a great deal be-
fore us to do; making clothing for the In-
dians will be a great labor for us. Tempo-
ral and spiritual go together; when we are 
engaged in our household duties we can
think upon spiritual things. I am thank-
ful I am not rich, for many of those who 
are rich are waning in the faith. It is the 
poor and meek of the earth who are willing
to do what the Lord requires of them. He 
chose a poor, illiterate boy to commence His
work upon the earth in this last dispensa-
tion so that He might educate him Himself.
May it be said to all of us at the last, "Well
done thou good and faithful servant, enter
thou into the joy of thy Lord."
	Bishop Raleigh made a few remarks upon
mothers dressing their little girls as plainly
as they do their boys, etc. Pres. Mrs. A. A.
Pratt remarked that it was late and there
was not time for more to be said; thought
we had had a great deal of good instruction
and hoped we would profit by it
	Meeting closed with singing. Prayer by
Bishop Raleigh.
	With many earnest wishes for the success
of your valuable paper, and for the welfare
and upbuilding of Zion, I remain respect-
fully your sister in the Gospel,
	A.E. NEAL.

	WEST WEBER, Sept. 13th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being a constant reader of your interest-
ing paper, and seeing the reports from the
many different societies—I wish to give you
a brief report of our small branch. Our
settlement is very scattering, and our Presi-
dent, John I. Hart, thought it would be best
to give the sisters at the East end of the 
settlement a chance to have a small branch,
so that they could do something for the
building up of the kingdom of God. As
they are about four miles from the main
part of the settlement, he went, accompa-
nied by Pres. Mary Douglas and several
other sisters, and organized a branch society.
A good spirit prevailed among them, and
they all felt that they would like to put their
mites in for the building up of this king-
dom. Our society is doing pretty well. We
meet once a week to make quilts, or do any
other work that may be needed, and once a
month as a society meeting. A few attend,
but the weather has been very dry and hot,
and as most of the sisters have small chil-
dren, that has been the [---] on of the non-at-
tendance. I think the spirit of the times
is sufficient to awaken us all up, for there is
more need of our living our religion than
ever; when I reflect and [---] the way that
we are going on I think it is displeasing in
the sight of our heavenly Father, for pride
and wickedness are on the increase, and it
becomes us as wives and mothers, to be alive
to our duties, and help to put away all that 
would be grieving to the Spirit of the Lord.
	Wishing you success, I am most respect-
fully yours. 
	PUA[--] S. HART


Holding the hand of the very sick and
the dying is a comfort unspeakable to them,
and if you are holding it and the spirit is
passing away, do not release the grasp un-
til the poor heart is at rest, for it gives the
feeling of company, of sympathy, of help.
--Dr. W. W. Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Term One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time $2.00 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. OCT. 1, 1875.


CONFERENCE AND CO-OPERATINE
		BABY-TENDING.

	CONFIDENTIAL TO MOTHERS.

	As the people are well aware, on the 6th day
of October, 1875, will open the Forty-fifth semi
Annual Conference of the Chruch of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	With feelings of profound interest for the 
occasion, the following suggestions are cheer-
fully submitted to mothers.
	The sisters, at least many of them, delight in
going to Conference, to listen to the pleasing
word of God as it issues from the lips of His
servants. But none should be so over anxious
to attend that place of divine worship and in-
struction, as to go there with children who are
too young to be kept quiet. Better stay at
home with your little ones, where they can be
comfortable and happy, than to take them to
the crowded Tabernacle where they must be
miserable themselves, and will, most likely
prove a source of annoyance to those who sit
near them.
	It is all very well for the babies to be taken
to the ladies' meetings, where there is room and 
freedom for them, and allowances can be made
for their noise. But to expect them to keep the
good order necessary in general Conference
meetings, that all who assemble for the pur-
pose may hear and be benefitted, is an absurdi-
ty. Not only so, but to take active little beings
to such a place, where they must be compelled
to sit as quiet as their fragile nerves will possi-
bly allow, and still prevent those about them
from hearing well, for two long hours, or more,
is not only a breach of good manners, but cru-
elty towards the precious darlings themselves.
	But certainly, no woman need stay at home
altogether on account of these difficulties. Two
or more mothers might together arrange a 
plan of co-operative baby-tending, whereby
each one might go to meeting a portion of the
time, and attend to the babies another portion,
while others were at meeting. In this way
enough more comfort and satisfaction could be
taken to compensate for all that might seem a
loss in not being able to be at all the meetings.


AUTUMN SEEDLINGS.

	A cherished friend writes us privily: "It
seems as though a good visit with you would
be a renewal of life to me. It is a trite saying
that 'sociability is the cream of life.' But as 
far as that goes, I have to put up with blue
skimmed milk, and that on the turn."
	Poor hungry heart! To you, and to many
like you for you are not alone in a world of
trouble, not the only one who feels at times as
though a change from the daily drudgery and


cares of life would be a most welcome rest—
and to all such we recommend a change, a rest,
certainly. Do not give way to longing after
something unattainable, at least for the pres-
ent; but set your creative powers at work and
introduce for yourself some restful changes in
the busy routine of every day life.
	Have you read your Bible lately?: If not,
begin and steal (if you must do so) a half hour
either in the morning or at evening, for search-
ing out lessons from that, suitable to your wants.
You will be sure to find something applicable if
your religious sentiments are in proper order;
and if not, the remedy for that evil will be
readily found if truly sought.
	We do not, for a moment, believe, yet it is
barely possible, that you hav’n’t a Bible in the
house, nor any means of procuring one. Then
read the next best book you can get hold of. A
hymn book even, contains hints enough of a
correct nature to keep one busy a life time
learning to put into practice; for, the world
over, it is so much easier to suggest than to do.
	But the primitive nature of man is progress-
ive. Hence, without the spirit of improvement
and the power to improve, there can be no real
blessedness; with the first in full tact, however,
the latter must be impossible. If it be your lot
to cook and wash dishes, make and mend for a
family, “week in, week out, from morn till
night,” endeavor to discover the best methods
for getting along with this very essential kind
of work. Never think of giving up in despair,
never imagine your mission an onerous one.
Consider how much more useful and ennobling
is your life than the empty career of a “fashion
butterfly” who flits about from one sweet to
another without a true relish for any, and dis-
content with all. Seek to be cheerful and make
home so for its inmates. Teach the little ones
to cultivate happy dispositions and aid their
childish endeavors. As soon as they are old
enough to understand, find them something to
do, show them how to do it and trust them.
	Now that the autumn is here with its cool
mornings and evenings, let the household hearth
be lighted up with a bright, warm fire; and be
sure to change the summer clothing for warmer
apparel in good time. It is easier, cheaper and
in all respects far better to preserve health when
you have it, than to regain it after it is lost. Be
as well prepared as possible for changes in the
weather, so that when the beautiful, merry
sunshine shall forsake the outer world for a
season, it may still beam as brightly as ever in
the heart.


A TRIBUTE AND TESTIMONY.

		FROM THE SOUTH.

PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH.

			ACROSTIC.

Prepare this sacred relic room.
Receive this holy trust O tomb!
Enshrined with love and tears,
Sad offering—dust to dust!
In memory oft will kindred hearts,
Deeming 'twas Father's will,
Embrace, though stay'd not sorrow's darts,
New light which that dear thought imparts,
Though dead, he liveth still!

Great and high honors, sweet and glorious rest,
Earned fairly here through faithfulness and zeal.
Obedience, strict integrity, the test
Required a Saints true life to seal.
God and His Councils have this record traced—
Even in their midst this friend, our friend is placed.

Admired of men for his intrinsic worth,
Loved of the Lord and all his bretheren gone.
Bereaved and sorrowing, his friends on earth,
Earth-bound remain, though strongly heavenward
	drawn:—


Reward their patience, bright Celestial birth,
	Thou glorious day, the Resurrection dawn!

	Saints, O! prepare ye! Stand no more aloof;
	Meek, wise submission like this good show;
	In anger sin not, but accept reproof,
	Taught by the Holy Spirit how to go.
	Him to rejoin on high, ye mourn below.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	The telegram announcing the death of our
well beloved and much respected President
Geo. A. Smith, although somewhat expected,
was received here on last Wednesday with
heartfelt sorrow and mourning.
	As a man deep in thought, studious in habit
combining suggestive powers with comprehen-
sive intellect, a good communicatist with care-
fully selected information, a sincere advocate
for the right, a competent instructor in all the
duties of life, an exemplary leader among the
sons and daughters of Zion—his loss cannot be
too deeply realized or too earnestly acknowl-
edged.
	As a friend, an associate, a companion and
fellow laborer in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus
Christ, I have been familiar with him over
forty-two years. His course has ever been for-
ward, he has never faltered; the shafts of death
pointed by enemies did not terrify him, their
scoffs and jeers were all unheeded and their flat-
tery had no weight. While I live, I shall cher-
ish his name with grateful remembrance.
	I am well aware that his noble character, his
blameless and most useful life need no vindi-
cating in the midst of the Latter-day Saints;
that to the wives and children of this great
friend of humanity and righteousness, to Presi-
dent Young and his other recent associates, or
to the people who knew and loved him, there is
no necessity for an obscure pen to pour forth
sympathy. Yet, from an overflowing heart, I 
felt to offer this tribute, and to bear this
testimony.
					EVAN M. GREENE.
Springdale, Kane Co. U.T. Sept. 5th, 1875.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A. BRUCE Taylor, son of Hon. John Taylor,
left this city on Monday morning, Sept. 20th,
for Ann Arbor, Michigan. He goes to study
law at the Michigan University. May success
attend his labors.

	MR. CHARLES Vivian, a character singer of
some celebrity, has been giving entertainments
recently in this city, assisted by Madame Reif-
farth who sang very creditably, especially the
aria from "Il Trovatore." Professor Hoseman
accompanied on the piano.

	PRESIDENT WELLS and the party who trav-
eled South with him, are expected to return on
the fourth, or fifth, of this month. They have 
had a pleasant journey thus far, the most beau-
tiful weather, and in all the settlements where
they have visited, the brethren and sisters have
received them most cordially, and manifested
the utmost interest in their mission and labors.

	ELDER JOSEPH F. Smith, with the company
of Saints who left Liverpool Sept. 15th, reached
New York Sunday, Sept. 26th, and Elder J. F.
Smith and F. M. Lyman left that city for Salt
Lake on Monday morning, the 27th, and will
probably arrive here this evening. The compa-
ny will probably reach here the fifth or sixth
of this month.

	TWO DAYS' meetings were held in Provo Sat-
urday and Sunday, President Young and Elder
George Q. Cannon being present; an excellent
spirit prevailed, the people being fully awake
to the reformation. At the same time, Elder


John Taylor presided over a two days' meetings
at South Cottonwood, where the spirit of re-
formation was also aroused.

	QUITE A number of serious accidents, etc.,
have occurred during the last few days; the
most deplorable circumstance being the suicide
of Elizabeth Henroid, wife of Gustave Henroid
of Nephi. From the evidence given at the in-
quest she is supposed to have been temporarily
insane. She leaves seven children, the young-
est only thirteen months old.

	WE HAVE received R.S. Reports from San-
taquin, Fountain Green, Manti and North Og-
den, which we are unable to publish in this
issue for want of space. We have also two
poems, one from North Ogden and one from
Lake Point, both possessing some merit, and
giving indications of inherent or latent genius.
We would advise both these young ladies to
cultivate their talents in this direction and not
be discouraged. It only requires care, patience
and perseverance where there is a taste for lit-
erary pursuits and genuine capital to work
upon.
	WE HAVE just received an interesting letter
from Dr. Mary J. Safford Blake of Boston,
who stopped two or three days in this city
about the middle of July, while "en route" for
the Pacific Coast. This lady is greatly inter-
ested in the Hygienic Dress Reform, believing
it to be essential to the health and physical de-
velopment of woman as well as the higher ele-
vation of character that some change be intro-
duced; also that extravagance, such as is at
present practised in the world, is ruinous to any
people or nation. She says she regrets, since
her return to Boston, that she did not make an
effort to address the ladies of Salt Lake on this
subject. The Dr. is a lady of culture and re-
finement, has traveled extensively in foreign
countries, and made the best possible use of her
opportunities. She has gained, as a physician
and surgeon, a name and reputation of which
she may justly be proud. One great charm she
possesses is her unassuming manner, although
so thoroughly accomplished, and having all the
grace and polish society and travel give.

	LIEUT. WILLARD Young, ere his recent return
to the East, was the favored recipient of a beau-
tiful testimonial of love and tender regards,
offered in the form of a social surprise party.
His sisters projected and arranged the affair;
which, though in nowise sumptuous, was in all
respects an entire success. By suggestion of
their father, President Young, the occasion
was, with but two or three exceptions, exclu-
clusively a family gathering, or to be still more
explicit, a meeting of his sons and daughters,
sons-in-law and daughters-in-law. At seven
o'clock supper was served, and President Young,
with Elders John Taylor and George Q. Can-
non, sat down surrounded by his numerous
children. Later in the evening music and
dancing were introduced. But withal there
was no boisterous merriment, no loud laughter,
no show of extravagance in any form. Not
one of the many sisters appeared in costly
apparel, though each one was neatly and care-
fully attired. A sweet peace and holy serenity
such as heavenly angels may delight to inhale
brooded over the scene; and so free was the
whole from ostentatious display, envy or strife
of any description, that the plainest, humblest
person might have felt perfectly at ease in par-
ticipating. Surely no family among the Lat-
ter-day Saints would receive ought but benefit
by copying such a meeting. And will not that
evening's entertainment be ever gratefully re-
tained in the memory of the young hero in
whose honor it was given?

	Lieut. Willard Young has been temporarily
assigned to duty near New York City, and left
Salt Lake to fill the appointment, on Monday
morning, Sept. 20th. May prosperity and bless-
ings attend him, and may he wear his laurels
nobly gained with true grace and dignity is the
sincere prayer of his friends.

	MADAME OCTAVIA Walton Le Vert, who
spent a short time in this city recently, and
gave an entertainment here in selections from
her own writings, is, by birth, education and
attainments, one of the most distinguished
ladies now living. It is said no other American
lady ever received the attention, the perfect
ovation, which characterized her visits to Eng-
land. She speaks with such remarkable ease
and fluency so many different languages, that
she easily conveys her wonderful knowledge of
books, travel, and of celebrated people with
whom she has been associated. It is useless to
attempt to give an idea of her in a few lines
here, for she would form a subject for volumes
to be written; but her life has been such an one
as few ever realize, and through it all she has
appreciated her blessings and preserved her af-
fections pure as the fountains of a young heart.
Indeed, it is difficult to realize she is no longer
young, there is such a charm and fascination
in her society. She was an intimate friend of
Washington Irving, having made the acquaint-
ance of that extraordinary man when a very
young girl. You may form some idea of her
merits and attainments from the expression of
his sentiments, which are these: "She is such
a woman as occurs but once in the course of an
empire." Henry Clay who was her warm
friend and admirer said: "She has a tongue that
never spoke evil of any one." These few words
speak louder in her praise than the adulation
of the multitudes.
	Her grandfather, Gen. Goorge Walton, was
one of the signers of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, a member of the first Congress, Gov-
ernor of Georgia, and a Judge of the Supreme
Court; he married the daughter of an English
nobleman, to whom the crown had granted
large estates in the colonies. Her father was
Secretary of state under Gen. Jackson, and suc-
ceeded him as Governor of Florida; he located
the capital of that state, and permitted his
daughter Octavia to give it a name; she chose
Tallahassee which signifies "beautiful land" in
deference to the Indians with whom she was a
great favorite, and, on account of many inter-
cessions in their behalf, they called her "the
white dove of peace."
	Among her many dear friends were La Fay-
ette, whom she knew when a child, Kossuth
Frederika Bremer, Mary Howitt, Mrs. Gros-
land, Countess Montiji and Lady Emeline
Wortley. Her book "Souvenirs of Travel" is
written in a style peculiarly characteristic of
her ardent and enthusiastic nature and genius;
it surpasses in its grand and glowing picturings
and delineations any book of foreign travels we
have ever seen.
	Madame Le Vert will probably stop here
again a few days on her return from San Fran-
cisco as she intends writing another book soon,
including a chapter on Salt Lake and its peo-
ple, which she says shall be entirely free from
prejudice. Her book is to be entitled, "The
Wonders of the Western World."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SCHOOL-mistress once asked a pupil to tell
What word the letters S double E spell.
The child was but dull, and so mistress cries,
"What is it, you dunce, I do with my eyes?"
"Oh yes!" says the child quickly taking the
	hint:
"I know the word now, ma'am! S double E
	squint.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER,

		TO MRS. MERCY R. THOMPSON.

DEAR SISTER:
	On Thursday the 2nd inst. Prest. Jos. F.
Smith learned by Cable-gram the sad news of
the death of Prest. George A. Smith on
the 1st of Sept. This great loss has cast a
fearful sadness over our hearts. Oh! what a
harvest death is gathering from among
God's Earthly Veterans.
	It seemed to me we could not spare Uncle
George, but God is with us and can raise up
another as he did when the Prophet Joseph
was taken. Times seem so precarious just
now that we need every good man, and could
spare traitors and slinks by the host. I thank
Heaven that reformation is commenced in
Zion, for there was perhaps, never a time
when it was more needed. How well I re-
member that Jedediah went from the re-
formation of "57" and now Uncle George
has gone from the reformation of "75" and
will report to the Prophet and hosts who are
faithful with him in that better land. Oh!
that I may live as Uncle George has lived,
the personification of truth, integrity and
unflinching fidelity to the work of Salvation;
loved by God and all the Saints, and when
I depart this life that I may go where he is,
and be numbered with the champions of
eternal truth.
	Our hearts are full of sorrow; but God will
comfort His people; and the fallen has not
fallen, but has stepped into another sphere
where he can do more for us, ten fold than
he could while present with us. He is out
of reach of the puny arm of persecution,
he has conquered and vanquished every foe,
God blessed forever.
	With great respect, I remain your broth-
er in the Gospel,
					F. M. Lyman.


SPATTERWORK.

	Almost every one has seen "Spatterwork,"
but not every one knows how to make it. I
make it on Bristol board, Swiss muslin, or
linen—white of course. Get fifteen cents'
worth of India ink, which will make any
amount of work, an old toothbrush and a
fine comb.
	Arrange tiny leaves—ferns, and any oth-
er delicate foliage you can find—on your
ground work, being careful not to let one
over lap another. Fasten the leaves down
by pins stuck through into a lapboard or ta-
ble, just as you want them, pressing the leaf
close to the ground work. Dissolve the ink
of water on a plate, till about as thick as
cream. Rub your brush on, and then hold-
ing it in the left hand, draw the comb care-
fully over the bristles, and the ink will fly
off in almost imperceptible spatters. Go
over and over the work till it is of a uni-
form grey: then, on taking the ferns off,
there is a clear print, looking like a photo-
graph. With a little practice one can make
beautiful mottoes for the wall. Swiss mus-
lin makes lovely tidies, with a running bor-
der round the finger-wide hem, and an ini-
tial in the middle; and linen makes bureau
mats. For cushion to match the mats, I
mean to try light green silk, "spattered" till
it is black. That would make green ferns
on a black ground.
	Another pretty leaf print is this: Grease
a clean white paper, and smoke it over a
candle till black; then press a leaf firmly on
take it up carefully, and lay on a clean white
card-board, pressing it down  hard, and you
will have a perfect print, every vein distinct
and beautiful.—The Advance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
					For the Exponent.
			LIFE LESSONS.

		By Blanche Beechwood.
						["E. B. Wells" is written in here]
			"And 'twere as vain a thing,
	To ask of nature one perpetual spring,
	As to evade those sad, autumnal hours,
	Or deem thy path of life shall bloom, all flowers"
	The spring of our life may be all beauty,
all gladness all gaiety, we may revel as in
Nature's bowers, in the centre of the garden
of Eden, where the very air is redolent of
happiness ethereal, but were this to be the
"fac simile" of our whole lives, what should
we accomplish worthy of merit? Would
this impart the strength and vigor to the
soul, that a different experience would?
Would it inspire us with a desire to study
ourselves, and search out the remote and
secluded corners of our inner life, and
help to mould our thoughts and aspirations
into a channel of higher intelligence?
	There are lessons to be learned in every
season of our lives, and an experience to
be gained, which only the incidental storms
which burst sometimes upon us, with al-
most crushing force, could ever effectually
rivet in our remembrance. A gentle, sooth-
ing rain may cool and dampen the surface,
but in a moment of time, comparatively, it
is as if it had never been; but when a
furious storm beats upon the earth, it has
left a more lasting impression.
	It is not usually until the autumn winds
begin to blow, and the summer's hey-day
past, we are fully prepared to take up the
subject of living, in its broadest and most
comprehensive sense. The experience of
former years, the bitter heartaches brought
about, it may be through our own folly or
indiscretion, the many changing vicissi-
tudes which occur even in comparative-
ly quiet lives, all have a bearing upon the
mind, and if properly appreciated, strength-
en the character, impart individuality and
fortify us against the more intense and
rude blasts of the winter of our years.
	Do we comprehend in the smallest de-
gree the purposes of God in our creation?
Do we seek to inform ourselves thoroughly
on all subjects which pertain to life and ex-
istence here? Do we consider that we are
actors in a great drama and do we strive to
render ourselves creditably in the part we
are performing—and adapt ourselves to the
time, to our fellow laborers and all the
paraphernalia with which the great stage
is endowed. If the great Author had no
ultimate object in view in giving us an ex-
istence here, then we might be excusable in
flitting from flower to flower, or wasting
precious time and throwing away opportu-
nities for improvement; or satisfy ourselves
railing against Fate, or sit idly waiting for
Providence.
	Beings endowed with superior powers
could never have been created to live a few
short years and then pass away leaving no
record of an individual existence. The
Savior said "By their fruits ye shall know
them." It is the opinion of many who are
wise and learned that woman's mission up-
on the earth, is maternity, with its minor
details, its accompanying cares and anxie-
ties, and needful exigencies; that these fill
the measure of her creation; and when this
is done, she should with becoming matronly
dignity, retire from the sphere of active life
and gracefully welcome old age.
	That motherhood brings into a woman's
life a richness, zest and tone that nothing
else ever can, I gladly grant you, but that her
usefulness ends there, or that she has no
other individual interests to serve I cannot
so readily concede.

[column 2]
	She has lived one life—and now she may
live another; not a better life, not perhaps
even so pleasing a one; not one that will
bring into play those tender and affectional
qualities which characterize the life of a
true mother, while her little ones cluster
around her heart and home, but still an ac-
tive practical life, which will develop in her
to the best advantage the experiences of the
past that will assist and benefit those who
are to follow in her footsteps. There is
practical work to do, a testimony to bear.
Let us take heed we do so faithfully.
	S. L. City, Sept. 29th, 1875.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A TELEGRAPHIC cable was laid last
month across Vineyard Sound connecting
Martha's Vineyard with the main-land.
The laying was performed in  two hours by
a United States revenue steamer.

	AT HARRISBURG Penn. Dr. J. R. Hayes
has lately invented a new apparatus for press-
ing coal dust into fuel.  The machine is
said to be simple, cheap and practicable.
It has been put in operation at the Harris-
burg machine shops.

	DR. AMES in his "Sex In Industry" tells
about the physical unfitness of women for
type-setting. There are instances enough
on record to prove that women in this pro-
fession do not absent themselves more fre-
quently than men on account of their health.

	A NEW paper is announced to appear in
Boston Oct. 25th, edited by J. M. L. Bab-
cock, it will be called "The New Age;" and
the prospectus says, is to be devoted to no
sect or party religious, political or social,
but aim at the highest comprehensive view
of all true interests in thought or action.

	THE LARAMIE Sentinel (Wyoming) gives
an encouraging account of the courts where
women had been admitted to the Grand
Jury.  With ladies in their midst, every-
thing of the nature of levity or blackguard-
ism, everything offensive to decency and
morality was banished, whereas, heretofore
the prevailing elements were drunkenness,
rowdyism, quarreling, fighting etc.

	SOMETHING NEW in the way of enter-
tainments was recently given by Mrs. Ju-
lia Ward Howe at Newport, and styled "A
Blue Tea." Each guest was required to
contribute a verse or prose article for the
occasion; one lady honored the party with a
pair of blue stockings.  Every one present
was dressed in blue and the decorations
were all of that color; knots of blue ribbon
ornamented the cream pitchers and sugar-
bowls. It was pronounced "a unique so-
cial success."


[column 1]
	THE PARADISE OF CHILDHOOD.

		"Come let us live for our children."
					FREDERICK FROEBEL.
	It may be well to give a brief rehearsal of
what I have heretofore remarked upon the
general principles of Kindergarten educa-
tion.
	The Kindergarten furnishes an interme-
diate step and connecting link between the
nursery and the school, being designed by
its founder for children of three to seven
years. The golden maxims of Froebel are:
	"play is the work of the child."
	"We must begin at the beginning."
	"Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it."

[column 2]
	Froebel's main study was to harmonize
the elements of our common human nature
—animal, intellectual, moral and spiritual—
that integrity of culture may result. He
saw these elements nascent in the child, and
that affection was the master-chord of its
being. His principle of operation is, there-
fore, love and not fear--to engage and train
the young and active faculties, not specially
to coerce them.

			KINDERGARTEN GIFTS.
	The first Gift (for the youngest children)
consists of six soft balls, over-wrought with
worsted and representing the three primary
and three mixed colors. The aim of this
first occupation is to teach the children to
distinguish between the right and the left
hand, to teach direction (right and left, up
and down); to train the eye, exercise hands,
and feet, and to name the various colors.
	The second Gift consists of a sphere, a
cube, and a cylinder, the object being to
teach form, and to direct the child's atten-
tion to similarity and dissimilarity between
objects.
	The third Gift is a large cube, divided in-
to eight small cubes, of equal size, to illus-
trate form and number, and to give the first
idea of fractions.
	The fourth Gift is a large cube, divided in-
to eight oblong, useful in teaching the child
difference in regard to length breadth and
and height, etc; and enabling him to invent a
greater variety of forms the net-work of
lines on the table before him being a con-
stant guide to their construction.
	The fifth Gift consists of thirty-nine
pieces, twenty-one whole, six half, and
twelve quarter-cubes, forming altogether one
large cube.  In addition to horizontal and
perpendicular lines, this gift introduces the
oblique or slanting line. Acquaintance is
thus made with the triangle, and is used
with children from five to six years old.
	The sixth Gift is another large cube, but
consisting of doubly-divided oblongs. This,
as will be seen, is a complement to the
fourth gift, as the fith was to the third.
	The seventh Gift consists of quadrangular
and triangular tablets of polished wood. In
the six previous gifts the child had to do
with solids. By the tablets plane surfaces
are represented, which are in turn followedby straight lines (wooden staffs) in the
eighth gift, and curved lines (rings and
half-rings of wire) in the ninth gift.
	The multiplication table can be practi-
cally taught by means of the eighth Gift, as
well as the letters of the alphabet; while the
rings of the ninth Gift, like the sticks of the
eighth, serve as an introduction to drawing,
and prepare the child for the employment,
of the drawing slates and paper, which con-
stitute the tenth gift. Even young child-
ren advance rapidly in the art of drawing
by this process of evolution, and combining
the first elements of form. The slates and
the paper are ruled in squares.
	The eleventh and twelfth Gifts consist of
material for perforating and embroidering.
In orderly sequence the child has now (al-
beit unwittingly) become familiar with cu-
bic, square (or plane), linear or spherical
proportions. With the perforating paper
and pricking-needle he is brought to the
point. Steadiness of eye and hand result
from this occupation, thus preparing the pu-
pil for various kinds of manual performan-
ces in practical life.
	The thirteenth Gift: Material for cut-
ting paper and mounting pieces to produce
figures and forms. Squares of paper are so
folded and cut as to form figures. Scissors,
rounded at their ends, are here employed


and so ingeniously turned to account as to
produce very gratifying results.
	The fourteenth Gift is material for braid-
ing or weaving with parti-colored strips.
This occupation develops the use of both
hands. The sense of beauty and apprecia-
tion of number and symmetry are nourished,
and the inventive powers of both teacher
and pupil constantly stimulated. Paper,
leather, ribbon, straw and other materials
may be used for braiding. Strips of differ-
ent widths can be used and a variety of
patterns produced.
	The fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth
Gifts consist of interlacing and jointed slats,
and paper for intertwining, wherewith geom-
etrical and fancy figures, capital letters, ang-
les, etc., are made. The main object of this
occupation is to accustom the child to a
clean, neat and correct performance of his
work. The paper strips for intertwining,
which constitute the seventeenth gift; are to
be prepared by the pupils themselves and de-
mand a considerable amount of manual dex-
terity.
	The eighteenth Gift is material for paper-
folding. This exercise has been called "a
compendium of elementary mathematics,"
lines, angles, figures, and forms appearing
in almost endless variety. Beside this, it is
preparatory to all plastic work, and gives
abundant scope for the inventive fac-
ulty of the child. Among the objects that
can easily be produced, Eroebel's manual
mentions: A tablecloth with four hanging
corners, a bird, a sail boat, a canoe, a salt-
cellar, a kite, a wind-mill, a pair of boots,
a flower-pot, a chest of drawers, etc.
	The nineteenth Gift is material for peas-
work, pieces of wire of the thickness of a
hair-pin, pointed at the ends, being inserted
in soaked peas. With these simple materi-
als a great variety of skeleton figures and
objects are formed, the peas serving as cor-
ners, and the wire as edges. Columns,
prisms, pyramids and articles of household
furniture are readily constructed by this gift,
the qualities of bodies being made palpable
in great distinctness, and the eye developed
for perspective drawing.
	The twentieth Gift is material for model-
ing, in bees' wax, clay, putty, or other plia-
ble substance; and this is done with a small
wooden knife on a smooth light board. The
use of this, although the last gift in Froe-
bel's method, is so self-apparent as to re-
quire hardly passing notice. The child is
always "at home" in the wet sand, in the
dirt and in the snow; kneading, house-build-
ing, house-keeping, making forts, figures
of man and beast, and even with its bread
crumbs making balls. In a word, it has
been well remraked that most children are
born sculptors.
	Reviewing, we find that the material used
in the occupations of the Kindergarten pro-
gress form the solid or whole, in gradual
steps to its parts, until it arrives at the im-
age upon the plane, and its conditions as to
line and point. The child is inducted into
the laws governing color; modeling; and in
boring, piercing, measuring, cutting, etc., a
foundation is laid for the after-work of the
artisan and artist—terms which, as we know,
were largely synonomous in the past, when
art was most successfuly cultivated.
	Froebel shared the lot of all great and wise
inventors, having been driven from place
to place in his own country, "with an um-
brella for his bed-room and a knapsack for
his pillow." -But the voices of nature and
revelation, especially in the great matter of
educating the young, are finding new listen-
ers and interpreters, and the ideas of Pesta-
lozzi and Froebel are prevailing to-day, in
one form or another, in almost every school.
house and seminary throughout Europe and
our own land.
	The medical profession recommended the
Kindergarten, and many of the most en-
lightened and philanthropic are giving the
subject their serious consideration. I may
instance, in conclusion, the recent action of
the Rhode Island State Medical Society,
which, among its twelve resolutions—after
stating its belief that, in the haste for
merely intellectual culture, the nervous sys-
tem is unduly developed and overtaxed to
the detriment of other portions, "thus giv-
ing rise to a long train of ills, and produc-
ing an unsymmetrical and distorted organ-
ization in the young"—it resolved:
	1st.—"That physical culture is of primary
importance, that gymnastic exercise should
be made a part of our school system; and
	2d.—That the Kindergarten system should
be engrafted upon our public school system."
					CAMILLA C. COBB.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	IN Milan at the present time, there are
said to be three hundred American girls,
studying for the lyric stage.
	MISS Amely Boelte, author of "Woman's
Labor and Woman's Mission," is now pre-
paring the fourth edition of her book
for publication.
	EX QUEEN Isabella resides in France at
Trouville, with her three daughters. When
they appear in their carriage in public, they
display the French and Spanish flags, wav-
ing side by side.

	A YOUNG Jewess named Franklin Rosa
Rubenstein who gave a course of lectures on
Science two years ago has recently received
the degree of Dr. of Philosophy from the
University of Leipsic.

	MISS GRACE Stuart made her "debut" as
an actress at Union Square Theatre New
York Monday evening August 23rd. She
is the grand-daughter of Prof. Moses Stuart
of Andover, Mass.
MISS Hannah De Rothschild has present-
ed 2,000 lbs. to the National Life Boat Insti-
tution, to establish a life boat station, in
memory of Baron Mayer De Rothschild, her
father.

	MISS Mary Seelye formerly of Cleveland,
Ohio, died recently at Mussoorie, India,
when she had just successfully entered upon
a life of usefulness. She was three years in
Calcutta as a resident physician, under the
care of the "American Woman's Union Mis-
sion." She was much beloved among the
Hindoos and her influence was most power-
ful in favor of higher development. She
was only twenty-nine years of age.


When Hayden heard his great master
piece, "The Creation," performed for the
last time, which was the fruit of nine years
toil, (during which labor, he says, before I
sat down to the instrument I prayed God
with earnestness that he would enable me
to praise him worthily,) at the words "Let
there be light and there was light," when all
the instruments were united in one full
burst of gorgeous harmony, emotion seemed
to shake the whole frame of the aged man.
His pale face crimsoned; his bosom heaved
convulsively, his eyes streaming with tears,
and lifting up towards heaven his trembling
hands, he exclaimed, "not unto me, not
unto me, but unto Thy name be all the 
glory."


HYGIENIC NOTES.

 Charcoal has been discovered to be a cure for
burns: By laying a piece of cold charcoal upon a
burn, the pain subsides immediately. By leaving
the charcoal on one hour, the wound is healed, as
has been demonstrated on several occasions. The
remedy is cheap and simple, and deserves a trial.

 Excellent recipe for children for summer com-
plaint, teething, etc. Take one ounce of anise
seed and steep it thoroughly; strain it boiling hot
over one-half ounce of Turkish rhubarb grated fine,
add one-quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda,
one-half pound of sugar, and one pint of Jamaica
rum. Give in small doses, according to the age
and constitution of the patient; for a very young
child one-half teaspoonful three or four times a day
—for an older one a teaspoonful, and so on.

 The following is an excellent receipt for canker,
and is good for children troubled with diarrahea
when there is no sign of canker: 1 oz of golden
seal, 1 oz of baberry bark, 1 oz of gum myrrh, 1 oz
of ladies slipper, 1 oz of garden sage, 1 oz peach
blossoms, or 2 of the leaves, 1 oz red willow bark.
Add water and steep, then pour off and boil down
to one quart; sweeten with honey, or white sugar;
add liquor enough to keep it from souring. Dose,
one-half teaspoonful for a child one year old.

 A Bran Bed for Burns.—The Sanitarian says
that in cases of bad scalds of children, in which a
large part of the body is involved, it knows of no
dressing so good as a bran bed; that is, a bed of
bran in which the patient may lie, and be covered
with a thick investment of the same. This dress-
ing has the advantage of not requiring change, for
each day as the moist particles fall off they can be
replaced with fresh bran, without disturbing the
patient. One of the severest cases of scald re-
covered by this treatment. A great deal of harm
is done to patients by frequent dressings, and any
method that obviates this is most desirable. Pa-
tients frequently are exposed for hours to the ac-
tion of the air, suffering unnecessary pain by the
old and tedious process of dressing. The air it-
self does no injury, but the extreme hyperasthesia
of the skin produces a state of nervous tremor
which leads to exhaustion.—R. N. Y.


In the Cathedral of Limerick there hung
a peal of bells which it is said, were brought
from a convent in Italy, for which it had
been manufactured by an enthusiastic Ital-
ian, with great labor and skill. * * * *
After a long interval, the course of his wan-
derings brought him to Ireland. On a calm
and beautiful evening, as the vessel which
bore him floated along the broad stream of 
of the Shannon, he suddenly heard a peal
from the Cathedral tower.  They were the
bells—the long-lost treasures of his mem-
ory. *  *  Crossing his arms upon his
breast, he laid himself back in the boat, and
gazed and listened.  When the rowers
looked around, they saw his face still turned
toward the Cathedral, but his eyes had
closed forever on the world.  Such a tide of
memories had swept over the sympathetic
chords of his heart, that they had snapped
under the vibration.


A GERMAN pedlar sold a liquid for the 
extermination of bugs. "And how do you
use it?" inquired the man, after he had 
bought it. "Ketelrite but, and drop von
little drop into his mout," answered the
pedlar.  "You do!" exclaimed the purchas-
er.  "I could kill it in half that time by
stamping on it."  "Vell," exclaimed the
German "dat is a good vay, too."


72  WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S. P. TEASDEL'S.
Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduce 1 Prices.  Boys' and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
S. P. TEASDEL
CALL AT
TAYLOR & CUTLER'S 
AND SEE THEIR LARGE STOCK OF
GROCERIES, DRY GOODS, BOOTS AND 
SHOES, CAPS, CLOTHING, &c.
At Greatly Reduce Rates.
MILLINERY,
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No.[-]7,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.
Z. C. M. I
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &C.
O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second, South Street, Opposite Walk
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for
ONE YEAR.
IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S,
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.
THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.
Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of 
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.
LADIES
if you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER AND EGGS,
F. GOSS, Supt.
EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


FLOWERS.
WE forgive too little: forget too much.
THE innocent seldom find an uneasy pil-
low.
THE who receives a good turn should nev-
er forget, he who does one should never re-
member it.
THE human soul, like the water of the 
salt sea, becomes fresh and sweet in rising
to the sky.
THE labor of the body relieves us from
the fatigues of the mind, and this it is which
forms the happiness of the poor.
LOVE is described by SIMMS, in a semi-
poetical style, as "but another name for that 
inscrutable presence by which the soul is
connected with humanity."
SOME one to love! It is the cry of the 
human soul, the note to which every human
heart responds; the bond which will bind us
all together in that other world where
mourners will be comforted and love shall
reign forever.
THERE exists an element of real polite-
ness that is nearly allied to love; it is inher-
ent in some noble natures, but is still capa-
ble of cultivation, and from this fresh spring
in the human soul, emanates the most genu-
ine politeness, which actuates the conduct
of man, or woman.
EVERY song soothes and uplifts; at times
a song is as good as a prayer.  Indeed, a
song of the pure kind recognized in Script-
ure, is akin to a petition, which is also in
the spirit of thanksgiving.  The "sweet
singer of Israel" wedded his sincerest pray-
ers to melody and wafted them upward on 
the night air from his throbbing heart.
THE first use of education is to enable
us to consult with the wisest and the great-
est men on all points of earnest difficulty.
To use books rightly, is to go to them for
help; to appeal to them when our own
knowledge and power of thought fails; to be
led by them into wider sight, purer concep-
tion than our own, and to receive from
them the united sentence of the judges and 
councils of all time, against our solitary and
unstable opinion.—From Ruskin.


"EVERY tree is subject to a disease,"
said a speaker in a fruit-growers' conven-
tion. "What ailment can you find on the 
oak?" asked the chairman. " A-corn," was 
the triumphant reply.


A CHICAGO man excuses himself for not
going to some watering-place by saying he
fell into the river last May and got enough 
to last him a whole year.


IT is reported that a fat woman in Ore-
gon recently shot her recreant lover with a 
pistol, but it is unlikely. How could a
really fat woman carry small arms?


ALOFT on the throne of God, and not be-
low, in the footprints of a trampling multi-
tude, are the sacred rules of right, which 
no majorities can displace or overturn.-
Charles Sumner.


FIFTY-TWO boys at Great Falls have
signed a pledge to drink nothing stronger 
than coffee and tea, and to abstain from
vulgarity in every form. They have styled 
themselves the "Boys Reform Club."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

 Waffles.-One quart of flour, one pint of sour
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, four eggs, a piece of
butter the size of a large egg, and a little salt. 
Bake in waffle irons. Sour cream and less butter
improves them.

 To Scramble Eggs.-Break 12 eggs into a bowl
add a tablespoonful of salt, beat them for a min-
ute or two, put a lump of butter as large as an
egg in a farina boiler, or put a tin saucepan into
a skillet partly filled with water, as a substitute for
a farina boiler, pour in the eggs and stir constantly
until they are cooked. They should not be too
moist not too dry. Serve in a hot dish with or
without buttered toast underneath them. Anoth-
er recipe says: - Have a spider hot and buttered;
break the eggs into a dish being careful not to 
break the yolks: slip them into the spider, add a 
very little salt, with butter the size of a nutmeg
for a half  dozen eggs or three tablespoonfuls of 
cream. When the eggs begin to whiten, stir 
carefully from the bottom until cooked to suit.
The yelks and whites should be sparated, though 
stirred together.
	Omelette.-Take six eggs, beat the whites and 
yelks separately, beat in with the yelks a table-
spoonful of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt; 
have ready your omelette pan (or skillet) hot, with 
a tablespoonful of butter in it; beat the whites and 
yelks together and pour in. During the frying 
move the pan continually to and fro, so that what 
is below may come to the top again. When the 
omelette is nicely browned on the bottom, fold it
over with a cake turner, slip it on a hot plate and 
eat immediately. Soyer says an omelette pan
should be free from damp.  He puts it on the
fire with a little butter to get hot, removes it, and 
and wipes with a dry cloth before putting in the 
eggs.


THE brave only know how to forgive; it
is the most refined and generous pitch of
virtue human nature can arrive at. Cowards 
have done good and kind actions-cowards
have fought, nay, sometimes even con-
quered; but a coward never forgave. It is
not his nature; the power of doing it, flows 
only from strength and greatness of soul,
conscious of its own force and security, and 
above the little temptations of resenting
every fruitless attempt to interrupt its hap-
piness.-Sterne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1875.		No. 10


BE CONTENT AND LIVE NOBLY.

There are joys that are countless, to make our life sweet,
True friends with warm hearts, each day we may greet; 
Then what if some toil and hardship we meet,
'Twill give us experience, to make life complete;
 Then let us be cheerful, content with the place
Which duty assigns us, and work with a will,
A resolve and a purpose, our measure to fill;
Carving out our own fortune, with wisdom and skill,
 And trusting in God to the end of the race.

Let us strive to be brave, in word and in deed,
To the voice of temptation never give heed,
But succor and help the weak in their need,
And walk in the path which to vict'ry will lead,
 Not thinking our lot is grevious to bear,
Nor our labor, though humble and lowly, is vain;
But; boldly the right ever strive to maintain,
And nobly endeavor true knowledge to gain,
 To dwell with the just and the holy, prepare.

There's work for the earnest and faithful to do,
There are hearts that are willing, and honest, and true;
And there's comfort and blessing awating them too,
And a crown everlasting, when the journey is through.
 Then let us not falter or fall by the way,
But faithfully seek in the right to be strong,
Shunning all that is evil, or sinful, or wrong;
For treasures unfading most earnestly long,
With faith for our anchor, our bulwark and stay.
EMILE.
OCT. 14, 1875.


For the EXPONENT.
JUDGE NOT.

By BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

 "Sweet as refreshing dews or summer showers,
 To the long parching thirst of drooping flowels;
 Grateful as fanning gales to fainting swains;
 And soft as trickling balm to bleeding pains,
 Are they kind words."
 What is more heavenly in its character
and tendency than a truly kind and broad
charity; Paul tells us that though we have
every other characterisitc of perfection, and
have not charity, we are lacking in some-
thing most essential. We are all of us prone
to err, to make mistakes in judgment, in dis-
criminating, to look at things from our own
standpoint, forgetting that we are only a
very diminutive part of the creation of God.
We measure others by a very crude and im-
perfect standard which we have raised in
our own minds, and often pass our opinion
upon another's conduct, without ever con-
sidering that it will effect any harm, or have
an influence against them. I believe those
who make human nature their study, and
carefully weigh advantages, opportunities
and circumstances, will be most careful in
passing their judgment upon individual
faults and failings.
 Mankind are all possessed of more or less
individuality, and it is as dissimilar in bear-
ing and effect, as the countenances and ex-
pressions of the individuals themselves;
then there are so many elements which
characterize and form the mind and habits
that exist in various stages of progression in
different places and states of society, that
no one person, unless possessed of the Spirit
of God, ought ever to judge, except by the
most careful and thorough examination and
investigation of  acts, circumstances, and
tendencies, as well as motives past and pres-
ent.
 Would not kindness and tenderness be
better than harsh and hasty judgment?
Perhaps the very one from whom we turn


n disgust has been crushed by neglect,
wounded by unkindness, perchanee inherited
a morbid sensitiveness, impossible to over-
come under opposing circumstances. We
want a more thorough knowledge of the
motives which actuate the human heart be-
fore we can judge each other. We want 
more wisdom than can be obtained at schools
and institutions of learning, to be able to
discriminate judiciously where one's charac-
ter, reputation and honor are at stake. We 
want to have the visions of our minds ex-
panded and our sympathies enlarged, our
love for humanity generously increased,
and then pass judgment first upon our own
acts, probe our own hearts, and when we 
unconsciously reach forth to judge another,
always remember the appropriate suggestion
of Charles Reade, "Put yourself in his
place." Those who can be most lenient to-
wards another's shortcomings, will have
most confidence go in faith and humility
to their heavenly Father for the forgiveness 
of their own.


NOTES AND NEWS.

 THE DISTINGUISHED French author and
journalist, Edmond About, it is expected,
will come to America next year to write
Centennial letters for several of the leading
French journals.

 TENNYSON'S QUEEN Mary has been dra-
matized and was performed on the stage for
the first time on the 4th inst., at the Arch
Street theatre, Philadelphia. The "Times"
does not speak very encouragingly of its fu-
ture, says it is not an acting play and will
not be likely to run more than a week.

 THE WOMAN Suffrage Club, South Bos-
ton, held a meeting Monday evening Oct.
4th; the greatest interest was manifested
by the members. Mrs. Julia Howe deliv-
ered an address. A committee of ladies
and gentlemen was chosen and appointed to
question candidates for nomination to the 
Legislature, in regard to their views on the
Suffrage question.

 EX-PRIEST GERDEMAN, who left the Ro-
man Catholic church not long since, has
been delivering lectures in Philadelphia,
which have been the subject of much com-
ment by newspaper writers, journalists and
the community generally. His lectures are
said to be eloquent, spicy and strictly in ac-
cordance with facts. He dwells at some
length on the curse of strong drink among
the priesthood. He speaks earnestly of his
devotion to the Catholic religion from child-
hood, and says he would have sacrificed his
life, inch by inch, for the Catholic church
before the dogma of infallibility was de-
clared.
 CHIFE JUSTICE Waite, of the Supreme
Court, in his decision before that honorable
body, denied that the right of suffrage is 
conferred upon any one by the fourteenth
amendment. The decision was made in the
case of Virginia T. Minor of Missouri. The 
"Woman,s Journal," in alluding to this says:
"There never could be any doubt of the
force of that amendment to any one who
read the first two sections of the amend-
ment together; as the first section secures
the full right of citizenship to all persons
born or naturalized in the United States and
subject to the laws thereof! The second
section tacitly admits the power of the
State to limit the right of Suffrage, even
as exercised by males over 21 years of age."
The Journal says "this is conclusive proof 
that the right of suffrage is not one of those
PRIVILIGES or IMMUNITIES secure from
abridgement in the first section." Citi-
zenship as meant in the first section signi-
fies merely "membership of the political
community constituting the nation." Wo-
man's right to such citizenship has been co-
extensive with man's. But the privilege
of voting is something conferred by the
State on whomsoever it chooses. It is clear
that the Constitution has not added the
right of suffrage to the PRIVILIGES and 
IMMUNITIES of citizenship as they existed
at the time of its adoption. And as a his-
torical fact at that time, the rights of men
and women did not include Suffrage."


THE RELIGION WE WANT.
	We want a religion that bears heavily, not
only on the "exceeding sinfulness of sin,"
but on the exceeding rascality of lying and
stealing; a religion that banishes small mea-
sures from the counters, pebbles from the
cotton bags, clay from the paper, sand from
the sugar, hiccory from the coffee, alum
from the bread, and water from the milk 
cans. The religion that is to save the world
will not put all the big strawberries at the top
and all the little ones at the bottom. It
will not make one-half a pair of shoes of
good leather, so that the first shall redound
to the maker's credit and the second to his 
cash. It will not put Jouvin's stamp on Jen-
kin's kid gloves; nor make Paris bonnets
in the back room of a Boston millinery
shop; nor let a piece of velvet that pro-
fesses to measure twelve yards, come to an 
untimely end in the tenth. It does not put
bricks at five dollars a thousand into chim-
neys it contracts to build with seven dollar
material; nor smuggle white pine into floors 
that have paid for hard pine; nor leave
yawning cracks in closets where boards ought
to join. The religion that is going to sanc-
tify the world, pays its debts. It does not
consider that forty cents returned from one
hundred cents given, is according to the 
gospel, though it may be according to law. 
It looks on a man who has failed in trade,
and who continues to live in luxury, as a 
thief.-Ex.


A statement showing the estimated an-
nual production of gold and silver in the 
twenty-five years from 1749 to 1873, has
been prepared by the bureau of statistics.
The annual average production of gold, ac-
cording to this statement, is $50,300,000,
and that of silver for the fifteen years from 
1859 to 1873, $13,000,000. The production
of gold has, with the exception of one year,
been annually increasing since 1856, and the
production of silver has, with the exception
of one year, been increasing since 1859, the 
production of gold and silver in 1873 being
almost the same.


74			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association con-
vened in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Sept. 25th, 1875, was replete with
teaching and instruction in accordance with
the spirit of reformation, which is rapidly
spreading among the saints. After the
usual exercises and reading of the minutes
by the secretaries of various wards, Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne among other in-
structions gave some counsel to the moth-
ers in regard to the clothing of their chil-
dren, and the attention to be paid to them
at this particular season of the year, when
the weather is so changeable and fruit so
abundant, that children require more than
ordinary care and watching.
	Miss E. R. Snow then gave an account of
the trip North, taken recently by herself
and Mrs. M. I. Horne, and the work going
on in the settlements they had visited.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, who had been absent
nearly a year in California, expressed her
pleasure in meeting the sisters again, and
said her health had greatly improved; gave
some account of her visit and the feeling
existing towards this people in that country.
Mrs. P. Woodruff, Mrs. Madsen, Mrs. W.
East, Mrs. R. Pratt, Mrs. E. S. Barney,
and Mrs. Watmough each made excellent
remarks after which Miss E. R. Snow said:
"We expect to petition the Legislature to
let us have a Female Medical College, and
we shall want some lady qualified to super-
intend it; it is for this purpose we are try-
ing to raise means to send Mrs. Pratt East
that she may qualify herself for this posi-
tion."

		SANTAQUIN, Sept. 25, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Association of this
place held their second Annual meeting on
the 17th of Sept., 1875. After the usual
exercises and reading of the minutes, es-
says, compositions, and selections from the
EXPONENT and "Juvenile" were read by
the members. After which Bishop George
Halliday, who was present by invitation, ad-
dressed the sisters; he expressed his plea-
sure and satisfaction with the proceedings
of the Association, and instructed and en-
couraged them to go into HOME MANUFAC-
TURE as much as possible.
	Sister Zina D. Young being present ad-
dressed the sisters, instructing them to be
faithful and prayerful; said she was very
much pleased with the proceedings of the
sisters in this place and spoke at some length
upon the propriety of the sisters dressing
plain and neat; also upon Sericulture, etc.
	President Mary A. Stickney made some
very appropriate remarks, encouraging the
sisters to faithfulness.
	The house was plainly but neatly decorat-
ed for the occasion, and all seemed to enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord.
	Our Association is in a very flourishing
condition; we have our meetings every Fri-
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Your most
valuable paper is read with interest in our
meetings, and we wish it may have an ex-
tended circulation.
	Your sister in the Gospel of Peace,
					ANN J. STICKNEY

	 NORTH OGDEN, Sept 19, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We, your sisters, thought we would inter-
est your readers with a few items from our
Retrenchment Association. We are trying
to improve and live our religion to the best

[Column 2]
of our ability. The young ladies of this
place seem to be seeking after truth more
diligently than they have done heretofore.
We have a meeting once a week; they are
generally well attended; we enjoy ourselves
while we are together and feel happier than
we did before our meetings commenced.
We do not feel quite as timid to get up and
speak now, as we did at first. Two weeks
ago, in a meeting for the young people,
fourteen young men and young ladies stood
up and bore their testimony to the truth of
this work.
	It being the wish of President Young that
the Latter-day Saints should refrain from
round dancing, a vote was called to see if
we were willing to try and refrain from it,
and the vote was unanimous.
	We feel to sympathize with President
George A. Smith's family and the saints in
their great bereavement, but we do not
mourn as those without hope. Our desire is
to live so that we may be worthy to meet
him when we are called away from this
stage of action.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ISABEL M. CRANDAL,
				SARAH JANE WADE,
				OLIVE P. FERRIN,
				CLARA V. BARNETT,

				KANAB, Sept. 23, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I could not let the opportunity pass with-
out giving you some idea of the good time
we have had during the visit of Pres. D.
H. Wells and party. He was accompanied
by Brothers Lorenzo Snow, F. D. Richards
and Erastus Snow of the Twelve. Also
Brothers R. T. Burton, A. M. Musser, J. E.
Taylor, R. McQuarrie, D. D. McArthur and
Bishop L. J. Nuttall.
	They spoke much on the UNITED ORDER,
and gave good counsel on various other sub-
jects.
	They said the time had come when we
must live our religion and obey the com-
mands of the Lord given by His servants,
that we should know for ourselves the true
way to live, and live in that way with all
our might and strength. Also that no one
could put in the plea of ignorance, for the
Prophet Brigham had given us enough good
counsel and instruction to save all who
would listen and obey.
	Elder Junius F. Wells spoke at consider-
able length to the young people. He said
their privileges were great in being born
and reared in the gospel, by parents that
never told them to do wrong. He plead
with them to live up to their privileges,
improve their minds, become what their
parents had been, and more.
	Would that we had more such young
men, who could stand up with boldness and
humility before their young brethren and
give them such good counsel.
	Brothers Levi Stewart and John R. Young
resigned their offices; the first as Bishop of
the Ward, the latter as President of the
United Order.
	Brother Nuttall from Provo was installed
Bishop of the Kanab Ward. He staid a
few days after the brethren left, and bap-
tized over seventy of the brethren and sis-
ters in the new covenant of the United
Order. After Conference Bishop Nuttall
will make his home with us.
	There seems to be a good spirit among
the people, and I think the future prospects
of Kanab are bright and promising.
					M. E. LITTLE.

[Column 3]
	FOUNTAIN GREEN Sept. 5th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green feel it our duty as well as a
pleasure to let you know of our prosperity
here as a Society. We are happy to inform
you that we are striving to do good to each
other by meeting together and strengthen-
ing each other in the faith of the Gospel,
pleading the cause of the poor and contribu-
ting of our limited means to afford them
some sustenance. The Society has been or-
ganized six years under the presidency of
Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson who has gained so
far the confidence of the sisters and has al-
so had the honor of establishing the Young
Ladies Society which is beginning to im-
prove, and we hope will gain strength con-
tinually. The young girls are employed in
sewing, quilting, and receiving instructions
necessary for their advancement in the good
cause; some of them are taking encourage-
ment and begin to arise and express their
feelings in their meetings, and realize the
benefits of being born of parents who are
in the Gospel and are trying to teach them
the plan of salvation. Quite a number of
the sisters have renewed their cove-
nants by baptism and almost every week
some few are added to their number. Al-
though we have not been visited here by
Sister Snow and company, yet the sisters
have been benefitted by their visits else-
where, as some of them have heard
their instructions and imparted them to oth-
ers. We are instructed by Sister Johnson
to carry out their counsel and increase in
home manufacture, and secure straw for
hats &c.
	We earnestly desire that the blessings of
our Heavenly Father may rest upon our ef-
forts to do good in this society, and extend
the same wish to all who are trying to do
good in every society throughout the Terri-
tory.
	We subscribe ourselves your sisters in the
New and Everlasting Covenant.
		POLLY ANN JOHNSON Pres't.
				    MARY JUKES Sec'y.	
		TREASURERS REPORT.
Remaining in the treasury in April
and loaned for Emigration, at in-
terest						$ 54 00
Captial Stock in Co-op Store		109 50
Dividends drawn and on hand	10 95
Donations received				22 54
Given to the poor				7 18
Paid for calico for quilts			4 60
Cash in the Treasury			8 40
Due bills on Co-op store on hand	4 65
		MARIA NIELSON, Treasurer.


HOW TO STOP A PAPER.--Do not take
your paper to the postmaster and tell him
to send it back; in nine cases out of ten you
will fail to stop it in this way. Do not at-
tempt to stop it yourself, and write on the
wrapper to discontinue; this is against the
law, and lays you open to fine. Before your
subscription expires send to the editor a
postal card, saying your subscription expires
on such a date; please discontinue at that
time. Sign your name, also the town and
State where your paper is sent, in full. If the
paper has been sent two weeks or more over 
the time for which it was paid, don't send a
postal card it will do no good; rather write
a letter and inclose what is due for arrear-
ages, always allowing that one number will
be sent before the letter reaches the pub-
lisher and his list is corrected. By observ-
ing these simple rules your requests will al-
ways be promptly attended to.--Printers'
circular.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 			75


THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE
WORLD.

Blessings on the hand of woman!
Angels guard her strength and grace
In the cottage, palace, hovel,
O, no matter where the place!
Would that never storms assailed it;
Rainbows ever gently curled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.

Infancy's the tender fountain;
Power may with beauty flow;
Mothers first to guide the streamlet,
From them souls unresting grow.
Grow on for the good or evil,
Sunshine streamed or darkness hurled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.

Woman, how divine thy mission
Here upon our natal sod;
Keep, O keep the young heart open
Always to the breath of God!
All true trophies of the Ages
Are from Mother Love impearled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.

Blessings on the hand of woman!
Fathers, sons and daughters cry,
And the sacred song is mingled
With the worship in the sky--
Mingles where no tempest darkens,
Rainbows ever more are curled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.
	WILLIAM ROSS WALLACE.


WHO IS MOST TO BLAME?

 Is woman usually a seducer? A few
years ago I sought to better my fortunes by
going West to teach in the public schools
of Illinois. I made the long journey en-
tirely alone, was not molested in any way,
and my journey  was most pleasant. I
often chatted with elderly gentlemen about
the change of cars, time of trains, etc. I 
remained in the West about two years, and
then again started homeward alone. One 
day I was sitting in the waiting-room of the
great Union depot of Indianapolis, waiting
for an Eastern bound train which was late.
I had my note-book before me and was
carelessly jotting down thoughts as they oc-
curred. Presently a portly, distinguished-
looking man, somewhat past the prime of
life and elegantly dressed, entered and took 
a seat near me; a map of my proposed route,
which the agent had given me, lay on the
seat beside me.
 "Can I see your map, Miss?" was his first
question.
 I looked up in his face as I handed it to
him. I am no dull student of human na-
ture, and there was an expression in his
eyes which I disliked. But thinking there
could be no harm in talking for a while with
a man as old as my father, whom the next
train would bear from my sight forever, I 
civilly answered his questions as to where I
had been and which way I was going.
 "Do you like teaching?" he asked, after
a while.
 I told him that I did not like it, on ac-
count of the ignorance and prejudices of the
people as to the true method of imparting
instruction.
 "Of course," he asserted, "it must be a 
most wearisome business. Now, how would
you like a position in one of the depart-
ments. Post Office, Treasury, or Agricultur-
al? I am a member of Congress. Just
jot down my name in your book, Hon. W.
-C.-"
 I will not write the name in full for the
sake of the sweet daughter whose pictured
face I once saw. If any man had dared to 
make to that daughter the proposals which
that miscreant afterwards made to me, the
father would have promptly shot him down
on the street. But to return to my story.
I told him I would very much like a posi-
tion in one of the "departments," and if he
would secure it for me I should be under
lasting obligations to him.
	"I should like to have you down in Wash-
ington," he said, jocosely. "My wife and
daughter are absent in Europe; the latter is
finishing her education in Heidelburg."
	So I gave him my address, and we parted 
on very good terms. Shortly after my re-
turn home, he opened a cautious correspond-
ence with me in reference to the situation
in one of "the departments." The Agricul-
tural Bureau seemed to be the department
over which he had the most influence. Af-
ter a certain amount of correspondence he 
seemed to think the victim was ready to fall
into his hands, and he wrote in this wise:
	"I have secured you a light, remunera-
tive position, sorting seeds, etc. You need
not trouble yourself about board and cloth-
ing and such, for I am going to attend to all
that myself. I have taken the dearest lit-
tle cottage just out of the city, and there we
will enjoy each other's society all alone. I 
have arranged to keep my family in Europe
for another year. Next summer we will
spend at my cottage at Long Branch. You
will figure there as my niece. Of course,
your position in the department is a mere
"ruse" to keep down suspicion and save your
name."
	The Honorable Congressman has enjoyed
his cottage alone, or has had a dozen differ-
ent mistresses in it for aught I know to the
contrary.
	Now this is a true story. Suppose that I
had been the foolish and inexperienced girl
that he took me for? What would have
been my fate had I yielded to his tempta-
tion? Might it not have been the Fair
tradegy over again? About the time of his
desertion and the restitution of all things,
what wonder if he had departed suddenly
with a bullet through his cruel heart or
wicked brain?
	Thousands of men in their secret souls to-
day believe that woman was created to be
the slave of their passions, the creature of 
their pleasures. And such men fear to place
the ballot in her hands, for fear that a check
may be given to their debauchery and in-
temperance.--Baltimore Correspondent of
Woman's Journal.


For the EXPONENT.
THE WORLD IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

 I wonder if we fully realize this all im-
portant fact. Have we ever paused in our
wild career long enough to even think
about it?
We sometimes murmur at Fate because
we are not as wealthy, or as talented, or as
beautiful, as some one else, forgetting for
the moment, that God, in His infinite mercy
and all wise providence; has created us as
we are for some wise purpose.  As for 
wealth, though we consider it a blessing, it
is transitory and liable to "take unto itself
wings, and fly away;" therefore, we ought
not to value that too highly.
Beauty, of the outward form and face
merely, is also transitory.  Yet there is a
higher, nobler beauty, that emanates from
a meek spirit and a kind and tender heart,
that will last as long as life itself, only be-
coming more pure and chaste as we grow
older, and coming forth from the trials it is
called to undergo even fairer and more pure
than when it started out in its infancy.
Of course it is conceded that our success
in life depends, to a great extent, on the


higher talents we possess, but surely we
ought not to censure Dame Nature, or ac-
cuse her of partiality, in not endowing
us with the higher talents, while those we 
already possess lie dormant, growing rusty
with neglect.
Besides, who knows of the undeveloped
genius in our possession, only waiting for 
something to transpire that will cause it to 
arouse from its lethargy and burst with re-
splendent brightness on an unsuspecting,
incredulous world!  We may approach, even
surpass, the bright star we have held up be-
fore our eyes as a model of perfection.
It behooves us then, my young friends, to
exercise our latent energies; for though we
may fall far short of the mark we have set
before ourselves, it were better than to at-
tempt nothing and accomplish nothing.  If 
we wish for friends we may have them by 
manifesting a gentle spirit, and being kind
and good.  If we desire wealth we may ac-
quire that by laboring for it, though it is
doubtful if we keep it long, as is proven by
every day examples in real life.  People
who have spent strength and every energy
of body and soul to amass a great fortune,
but after they have acquired the glittering
god they worship, have found their trea-
sures, alas for their happiness! swept from
them by one quick turn of the wheel of for-
tune, and they are left to die in poverty and
obscurity. Thus we see that wealth does
not constitnte happiness.
Education, I am happy to say, is, in this 
glorious Republic, free to all.  We can have
it, not merely for the asking, but by aiming
for it, and working for it.
Furthermore, I will guarantee to all, the 
love and respect of numerous friends, if
they will follow my plan, which is, form
your basis on true principles, place your aim
in life high, and work for a purpose.
BITTER-SWEET.


EARNED OR BESTOWED?
In our census reports no account is taken
of women,—wives and mothers who do no
work outside their homes.  They swell the 
numbers of non-producers, and searchers of 
statistics in connection with questions of 
political economy, take no account of them.
And does any one think that the toil of a 
woman who between twenty-five and forty,
bears and rears four children, giving them
the usual care of mothers, is less valuable to 
the state than that of her husband, who
works as a carpenter at two dollars and a 
half a day, and by economy of himself and 
wife saves enough after buying the bread,
meat and clothes for the six, to buy a cot-
tage and lot, of which he holds the title
deeds.  Again, is her labor less valuable to 
the state than that of a single woman. who 
works in a kitchen or makes paper boxes in
a factory, and also saves enough to buy a 
house and lot of which she holds the title
deeds?
Let us not be deceived; the wife and 
mother is supported by her husband; works
for her board and clothes with such love as
she can command thrown in, and is called a
non-producer.  It is desirable that her posi-
tion should be a more independent and bet-
ter rewarded one?  In other words, is it de-
sirable that matrimony should be the ref-
uge of women who cannot do better for
themselves? or should it be the opportu-
nity for the strongest, noblest aud best of 
women, to give their best to the society in
which they live? These are some of the 
problems which human intelligence and 
wisdom must sooner or later solve, under
penalties.—Ex.


76			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager
Pu[-]shed semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Ter[--]s.  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates.  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
[---] $2.00. per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office. corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a. m. to 5 p. m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
Address all business communications to
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. OCT. 15, 1875


CONFERENCE ITEMS.
THE FORTY-Fifth Semi-annual Conference
now just passed, has been one long to be re-
membered by the Latter-day Saints.  It was
held five days commencing Wednesday morn-
ing Oct. sixth, and adjourning Sunday after-
noon October tenth.  There were present of 
the first Presidency, President Brigham Young
and Daniel H. Wells. Of the Twelve, all ex-
cept Elder Albert Carrington.  The meetings
were well attended each day, and on Sunday it
is said there was the largest congregation ever
assembled in this city.  President Young him-
self preached several times during the confer-
ence instructing the people in regard to the 
United Order, and many other doctrinal points
President Wells and also different members of 
the quorum of the Twelve delivered excellent
discourses at different times during the confer-
ence, several of the returned missionaries,
President Joseph Young and others.  On the 
third day of the conference Elder George Q
Cannon read a long discourse by President
Brigham Young upon the resurrection, after
which Elder Woodruff made some excellent
and well-timed remarks upon that interesting
subject.  On the morning of the fourth day of 
conference the new tabernacle was dedicated
by prayer, written for the occasion, and read
by Elder John Taylor.  This prayer seemed to 
comprise every subject and idea, which should
have been associated with the dedication, and 
was a most perfect combination of eloquent
and expressive language.  In the afternoon of 
the same day, quite a large number of mission-
aries were called from the different counties
and settlements.  Among them were many 
young elders.  On Sunday, the fifth and last
day of the conference a few more missionaries
were called.  The whole of the preaching dur-
ing the conference has been of a nature
calculated to arouse the people from their
indifference to their religon, and inspire
them with renewed zeal in carrying out
the divine principles, revealed from heav-
en for the establishing of the kingdom of God
upon the earth, and the redemption of man-
kind.  The spirit of God seemed to rest down
upon the speakers and influence them in warn-
ing the people of the consequences of continu-
ing in  following after the fashions of Babylon,
which must inevitably fall, according to the 
predictions of ancient and modern prophets.
The music and singing during the conference
were particularly elevating and inspiring,
the selections of hymns and anthems well cho-
sen and effectively rendered.  The weather was
most propitious, and considering the vast
amount of people and of  little children every
thing passed off admirably and those who


listened understandingly, must certainly con-
sider themselves blessed indeed to be able to
hear so much truth and instruction, from the
mouths of the servants of God.


HOME AFFAIRS.
THE HANDEL and Hayden Society which 
has been organized in this city, have been pre-
paring themselves, we understand, to give a  
concert about the middle of November next.
THE ALLEGHANIANS closed their entertain-
ments in Salt Lake Saturday evening 9th ult.,
they drew tolerably full houses; the Matinee on 
Saturday afternoon was crowded and the ap-
plause was general.
A SOLICITATION was tendered by several gen-
tlemen of this city to Mr. Charles Vivian, to 
give another of his entertainments at the thea-
tre, before he returns to San Francisco; he ac-
cordingly complied with their request Thurs-
day last.
IN CONSEQUENCE of Chief Justice White
not having arrived in time to preside at the 
opening of the October term of the Third Dis-
trict Court, Monday the 11th inst., Gov. Emery
re-assigned Associate Justice Boreman to this
district, temporarily.
ELDER R. V. Morris in charge of the Wyo-
ming company of emigrants, arrived in this 
city with the company all safe and in good 
condition, Tuesday Oct. 5th.  They have had 
a speedy and pleasant journey.
THE FOURTEENTH Ward Literary Associa-
tion, re-opened Monday evening, Oct. 4th, at
7 o'clock in the Assembly Rooms, and will hold
a regular series of exercises every week on 
Monday evening, during the season.  The pub-
lic are invited to attend.
A METEOR was seen in this city on the even-
ing of October 12th, just about ten o'clock. It
was in a Westerly direction and descended in a 
North-Westerly at an angle of about 45[degree symbol]. When
first seen it seemed a pale blue tint, but after-
ward appeared a bright glowing crimson and fi-
nally exploded with a sparkling and resplend-
ent flash.
WE HAVE received from Mrs. William Wag-
staff three beautiful bouquets of a variety of 
flowers, among which were many colored ele-
gant dahlias, verbenas, honey-suckles and ge-
raniums, with ferns, grasses, etc, which added
much to their beauty; we accord the lady our 
most sincere thanks for the same, and also the 
luscious peaches which accompanied them and 
we shall not forget the pleasing compliment.
MONDAY OCT. 11th, there was a cheap excur-
sion to Lake Point, and it was well-timed to se-
cure a large party, and people from all quarters
availed themselves of the opportunity to enjoy
it, some of the party took a sea-bath, but the 
water was rather too cool for most people.  The
accommodations at the landing under the new
proprietors "The Southworth's" are very highly
spoken of.
THE DESERET Teachers Association held ad-
journed meetings conference week in the Uni-
versity Building, and elected their regular offi-
cers for the year; President, O H. Riggs; Vice
President, John R. Park; Secretary, F. M. 
Bishop; Treasurer, Karl G. Maeser.  After the 
transaction of necessary business for the season,
the Association adjourned "sine die".
THE MASSIVE and elegant front for the new
Deseret Bank Building arrived last week and 
has been put up.  The front of the story
above will be composed of brick and will be
similar in design to that of the South side of 
the building; the work is rapidly being for-
warded and it is expected it will be completed
before winter sets in.  The side and rear walls
of the new Co-operative Store are now up,
ready for the roof timbers; the iron front is ex-
pected very soon.  These two large new struct-
ures for public purposes are, besides being sol-
idly constructed, quite an addition to the ap-
pearance of the street.
A VERY elegant monument has been erected to 
the memory of the late Prest. Heber C. Kimball,
in the private burying ground belonging to that 
family.  The monument has a granite base and 
surbase; the body is formed into four gothic
panels of white veined marble on which the in-
scription is cut.  The monument is all of home
workmanship and is a fine specimen of artistic
skill.  The inscription is composed of about 1,-
700 letters and gives a concise account of the 
birth, life, travels ministry and death of this
distinguished man.  President Brigham Young
has also added a testimonial in his own words
which reads as follows: "He was a man of as 
much integrity, I presume as any man who 
ever lived upon the earth.  I have been person-
ally acquainted with him for forty-three years,
and I can testify that he has been a man of 
truth, a man of benevolence, a man that was 
to be trusted." On one of the panels is an in-
scription to the memory of Vilate Murray wife
of President Kimball who died Oct. 22nd, 1867.
MR. E. W. Tullidge who recently returned 
from New York, where he has been making ar-
rangements for the publication of his new work,
entitled the, "The Founders of Utah," informs
us that he is convinced the book he has been 
contemplating writing, and which he intends
bringing out immediately after this present
work, will be very popular.  He intends com-
prising and compiling in that work sketches
from the lives of the most prominent women
in this church and Territory.  Woman's work,
mission, sphere etc. are now extensively dis-
cussed, and people interested in these subjects
are especially curious to know something of the 
lives, motives, etc. of women who live in plu-
ral marriage, from one of their own people.
Mr. Tullidge also informs us that his last play
"Ben Israel" will shortly be brought out in 
Boston, by Miss Katharine Rogers and Mr.
Vincent.  We sincerely hope Mr. Tullidge may
realize some pecuniary remuneration from 
his works, as he has labored assiduously
in his vocation, and is certainly a brilliant,
pleasing and attractive writer.
THE VISIT of his Excellency President U.
S. Grant to this city, which took place recently,
was one of special interest and importance to
the people of this Territory.  His position, be-
ing the most elevated one in the nation, enti-
tles him to the highest respect and the most
distinguished attentions.  As soon as it was
authenticated that President Grant and party
were really coming to Salt Lake City, the City
Council held a special meeting, adopting reso-
lutions to give him a courteous, hearty and 
welcome reception, appropriate to his position.
Invitations were accordingly issued to federal,
civil and military officers, and some private
citizens, to constitute a party of welcome to go 
on a special train to Ogden to meet his Excel-
lency, and escort him to the city.  The party
left this city at half past nine, and arrived in 
Ogden at eleven o'clock.  The depot at Ogden
was thronged with people, anxious to avail
themselves of the opportunity of seeing the 
Chief Executive of the American Republic.
The special train on which the President was
traveling arrived in Ogden about half past
twelve o'clock.  His Excellency was standing
upon the platform of the car; the crowds of


people waved their hats as he approached,
which he gracefully acknowledged by taking
off his hat and bowing. The Ogden brass
brand welcomed him with their choicest se-
lections of music. Hon. George Q. Cannon, as
spokesman of the committee, approached Presi-
dent Grant, greeted him, and informed him of
the delegation, and presented to him the com-
mittee and other gentleman who accompanied
them. Soon after the train left Ogden, Presi-
dent Brigham Young, Hon. John Taylor,
Joseph F. Smith, Brigham Young, jr., and the
other gentlemen and ladies of the special train
party were presented to President Grant, who
stood upon the platform of the car, and were
also introduced to the President's party,
Mrs. President Grant, Col. Fred. Grant and
wife, Gen. O. E. Babcock, Hon. Hamilton Borie
ex-Secretary of the Navy, wife and niece,
and Governor Thayer of Wyoming. President
Young's meeting with President Grant was
particularly pleasant and cordial, and President 
Young, in his most happy manner, welcomed
his Excellency to Salt Lake City, and expressed
his desire that his visit might be enjoyable.
The President was met at the Salt Lake depot
by a long train of carriages, and the Sabbath
School children were arranged from the depot
to the Temple block; the most excellent order
prevailed everywhere. In the course of the
afternoon the President appeared upon the
balcony of the Walker House and was intro-
duced to the populace assembled there by Gov-
ernor Emery. On Monday morning President
Grant with his party, Gov. Emery and others,
visited the New Tabernacle; one incident con-
nected with this visit we wish to notice, which
is, Mrs. President Grant, when in the Taberna-
cle while the organ was playing, was deeply
affected, and her heart was drawn out in prayer
and she remarked afterwards that she 
then offered up a prayer to God in behalf of 
this people, "but remember," said she, "it was
a Methodist prayer." After their visit to the 
Tabernacle they drove up to Arsenal Hill to
get a good view of the city, then to Camp
Douglas. The President refused to receive any 
public demonstration. but said his visit was a 
private one, and did not warrant any firing of
cannons, martial music, etc. At one o'clock in
the afternoon he gave a public reception at the
Walker House, and thousands of people were
introduced and had the honor of shaking hands
with him. On the way to the depot President
Grant and party called upon Hon. Wm. Jen-
nings, where they were cordially received, and
refreshments suitable to the occasion served to
them. A select party of ladies and gentlemen 
accompanied them to Ogden. The President's 
private car was decorated with choice flowers 
in a tasteful and ornamental manner; the word
"Welcome" artistically arranged over the mir-
ror. President Grant, Mrs. Grant, Mrs. Fred.
Grant, Gen. Babcock, Ex-Secretary Borie, Gov-
ernor Thayer, Miss Borie and Mrs. Governor
Emery came and sat in the car with the Mor-
mon ladies and gentlemen, and were as socia-
ble and friendly as possible; Mr. Cannon very
politely introduced those ladies who had not
before been presented to the President and his
party. Everything passed off pleasantly; the
President and Mrs. Grant, in bidding the party
good bye, very graciously thanked the ladies
who decorated the car. When the President's 
car was ready to start, his Excellency appeared
upon the platform accompanied by his wife
and some others of their party; hearty cheers
resounded from all sides and the ladies waved
their handkerchiefs in token of adieu. Every
courtesy and attention possible, in so short a
time, was extended, to the President and party
during their brief stay.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPLINTERS.
PERSONAL.
The Prince of Wales will leave Italy Oct.
16th, for India, and will visit Athens on the 
way......King Louis the Second of Bravaria
proposes to celebrate by a general amnesty
the dedication of the monument erected in 
memory of his father......Boucicault is en-
gaged to appear in Philadelphia during the 
Centennial in the "Shaughraun"......General
Butler delivered a lecture on finance and 
currency before the Board of Trade, N. Y.,
Oct. 14......King Kalakaua is reported quite
ill in Honolulu......Mr. Robert Dale Owen is 
gradually improving in health......Tennyson
with his family, are going to make a tour of
the continent......Prof. Leo, of Berlin, has
been engaged for several years preparing a 
new variorum edition of Shakespeare......
Gladstone says he will never resume the 
Liberal leadership.
FOREIGN.
Kossuth was recently defeated as candi-
date for the diet of Hungary......The Egyp-
tian government is making preparations to 
represent the products of their country at
the Centennial......There has been a hea-
vy typhoon at Chee-Foo, China, recent-
ly, which wrecked three European and 
many Chinese vessels several lives were
lost......The excise returns of Great Britain
show that $600,000,000 are annually spent in 
alcohol etc., and more than one-half of it by
the laboring classes......It is reported that an
offensive and defensive treaty has been con-
cluded between China and Burmah......The
military affairs of Cuba are almost at a 
standstill, the recent severe storms there be-
ing one of the causes......M. Anspach, chief
magistrate of Brussels, is gradually trans-
forming that city into a miniature Paris; he
has offered the architect who will build the 
finest house in the Boulevard, a prize of 
1,000 francs......The Russian climate is said
to be materially changing on account of the 
destruction of the large forests--being cold-
er in winter and dryer in summer......It is 
reported that the cholera is subsiding in Sy-
ria; there has been nearly 300 deaths in one
week......Berlin has 140,000 working women 
whose lot is similar to that of working wo-
men all over the world.
GENERAL.
The new Jersey coast this year has yield-
ed a crop of oysters estimated at 4,000,000
bushels......The eighty-one ton gun, com-
pleted at Woolwich, Eng., has been tested
recently; it is for the iron-clad Inflexible,
and the charge consisted of 250 lbs. powder,
1,300 lbs. shot......The house formerly in-
habited by Dante, in Florence, has been 
purchased by that city, and will be fitted up
in the style of the 14th century......A bust
of President Lincoln has been ordered for
the public library at Springfield, Ill......It is 
said that Chicago will have the new-mint
......All the money required for the women's
exhibition building at the Centennial, $28,
000, has been raised.....3,000 persons at-
tended the Operatives Mass Meeting in Fall
river recently......Boston University School
of Theology has just received an accession
of about fifty new students from twenty dif-
ferent colleges.


COMPARISON.

	We through the love we [---] our children
subject them to the laws of [--]uity and jus-
tice one with another; although we dearly
love them yet when they arrive at a proper


age, we send them away from us to school, to
learn wisdom and to get knowledge and un-
derstanding that their faculties and minds
may expand and they become men and wo-
men of principle, and prepared for useful-
ness to take their parents place, or a higher
one in society. Now we know our children
must labor hard in their studies, must pass
through many trials difficult to bear, yet we
suffer it for their good, believing the old
adage that, "experience is the best teacher"
&c. God, when our spirits were living with
Him in His glory as obedient children,
through His great love for us created this
beautiful earth for our inheritance and place
of tuition; placing before us good and evil;
but man refused the good which was obe-
dience and chose the evil thus alienating
himself from a just and holy Father which
resulted in His being driven out of His
presence subject to death. As we parents
try to use means to bring back our disobe-
dient alienated children to do right that we
may enjoy their presence so God spared His
only begotten Son for a propitiation for the
sins of the whole world; that all through
faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and obedience
to His requirements might be brought back
into His presence and share in His glory,
honor and power. We sisters through faith
in the Lord Jesus Christ, baptism for the re-
mission of our sins and the laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are in-
itiated into the family of God, we become
His daughters, and if we continue obedient
to all His requirements made known to us
by our prophet and seer we shall ultimately
be brought back into His presence to share
our Father's glory.
	In taking a view of these truths which
we are (or should be) all of us well acquaint-
ed with, showing our relationship to God
and our entire dependence on Him for life,
and every blessing of life; when we realize
that the trials of life are only chidings for
our good, we feel our strength renewed to
bear up under these trials, knowing that
"He doth not willingly afflict the children
of men," and that "Whom the Lord loveth
He chasteneth" and these light afflictions
although they seem grievious to us at pres-
ent shall prove to us a far more exceeding
weight of glory." Let us become as little
children, and humbly submit to all His chid-
ings, knowing that His love for us is far
greater than ours for our children.
					EXCELETTE.


THE GIRL TO COME.—She will be of
some use in the world, will cook her own
food, will earn a living, and will not die an
old maid. The coming girl will not wear
the Grecian bend, dance the German, ignore
all possibilities of knowing how to work,
will not endeavor to break the hearts of un-
sophisticated young men, will spell correctly,
understand English before she affects
French, will preside with equal grace at the
piano and the washboard, will spin more
yarn for the house than for the street, will
darn her old stockings and know how to
make dough-nuts. The coming girl will
walk five miles a day, if need be, to keep
her cheeks in a glow; will mind her health,
her physical development, and her aged
mother; will adopt a costume both sensible
and conducive to health, will not confound
hypocrisy with politeness, will have the
courage to cut an unwelcome acquaintance,
will not think that refinement is French du-
plicity, that assumed politeness, where hate
dwells in the heart, is better than outspoken
condemnation, and will not regard the end
of her very being to have a beau.—Ex.


78			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.

I WILL TRY.

	What a little word I'll try is, but what a
comprehensive meaning it conveys; if we
would always keep this before our minds,
we would accomplish many things that we
do not otherwise. If we try perseveringly
we are almost sure to succeed; there are
many times things placed before us,
which seem hard to do, when if we
will go to work with a trying spirit and
a prayerful heart to God and ask him to help
us accomplish our duty we will be sure to
conquer. If there is anything for us to
learn and we think our task is hard, we
must put away all doubts and try with a
persevering spirit until we have accomplish-
ed our purpose; if we are always found try-
ing to do all things that are required of us
in the kingdom of God, we will never fal-
ter. If we find it hard to keep any cove-
nant we have made, we must be humble
and ask the Lord to help us, and if we do
this with a humble heart we will have new
vigor and feel astonished to see the differ-
ence in placing confidence in God to guide
us aright. "God's ways are not our ways,"
but we ought always to be willing to bring
ourselves into subjection to His will and we
will come off conquerors at the last if we
wait with patience.
	It is an old saying but a true one, that "the
Lord will help those who help themselves,"
then if we want a complete salvation in the
kingdom of God, let us try to do all things
in compliance with His will, for we will
never get what we do not work for. If we
work for the blessings of God, we will get
them for God is just and He will give us what
we merit, can we ask for any more? No, 
not with a clear conscience; then it behooves
us to keep watch for the kingdom of God
and travel with it, for it is hard to catch up
if we get behind, and if we get too far back
we will never attain the same position for
the kingdom of God is growing and will not 
wait for us, and those who persevere will
leave us behind them. Let onward be our
motto, living uprightly before our Heavenly
Father, doing our duty as His children and
setting an example before the world; that it
can be said of us, the Latter-day Saints are
true faithful christians, walking in the path
the Saviour walked in. Let us try to live
our religion and do all things with a cheer-
ful spirit and we will feel happy and carry a
light heart.	
		S. A. GRAHAM.

S. L. City.


ST. GEORGE, Sept. 19th, 1875.
SISTER E. R. SNOW:
Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the St.
George Relief Society held August 31st, 18-
75.  After the usual exercises a report of 
the business of the past year was read as
follows:  Donations received by the visit-
ing Teachers, consisting mostly of clothing
and remnants $85,00, cash, $6,55; disbursed
to the destitute in medicine, groceries and 
clothing for the living, and burial for the 
dead 40, 75; $100 has been donated to the 
Temple building at this place, being mostly
orders on the Tithing Office received from
brethren as payment for socks bedding and 
work done. 57 pairs of socks, have also 
been knitted for the same purpose.
Last year, $100 was also donated, mostly
in clothing and bedding for laborers on the 
Temple.
On hand now in the Treasury, in goods
and manufactured articles $135.  In Capi-
tal Stock in the Rio Virgin M. Co, $150;
in capital stock in the St. George Branch of


the United Order, for hats made and fur-
nished $23,78; credit on the books of the St.
George Tithing Office $75,75; amount due
the Society for goods sold $50; donated to
Indians in clothing, 75,75. We have also
one share in the co-operative store.
	The reading was followed by Br. Snow,
advising the Teachers to seek earnestly the
wants of the needy and sick lest some one
might suffer, and urged the President and
her Counselors to empty the treasury if
need be, and trust to our Heavenly Father
for more. He was followed by A. M. Jack-
son on the same subject, when President
Snow proposed the calling of Home Mission-
aries from the members of the Society who
should hold meetings in St. George and vi-
cinity.
	The following Sisters were named and
voted as Home Missionaries. Anna L.
Ivins, Hannah E. Crosby, Minerva Snow,
Elizabeth Beatty, Elizabeth Whitmore, Liz-
zie Calkins, Marietta Calkins, Annie Wood-
bury Hannah Nixon, Sarah A. Church and
Matilda C. McArthur.
	Roll called and Benediction by Jesse W.
Crosby.
	I will add that our roll numbers two hun-
dred and fourteen members; the average
number in attendance being from thirty to
fifty in summer, more in winter.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
				CAROLINE A. JACKSON
			Sec'y St. George R. Society.
	P. S.--At our meeting of September 17th,
most of the Home Missionaries were pres-
ent and bore faithful testimonies to the truth
of the work in which we are engaged as
Latter-day Saints, and expressed gratitude
for the organization of these meetings.
	The following officers were sustained:
Anna L. Ivins, President; Hannah E. Cros-
by, First Counselor; Minerva Snow, Second
Counselor; Hannah G. Perkins, President
of Teachers; Sarah A. Church, Treasurer;
Caroline A. Jackson, Secretary.
							C. A. J.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Charlotte Cushman is said to be so
feeble as to require constant assistance and 
support.
	MISS Bessie Egglesfield, a young lady law
student, was permitted to practice in the
Circuit Court at Terre Haute, (Ind,) 8th ult.
	THE "airy, fairy Lillian," enshrined in
verse by Tennyson, is now Mrs. Rawnesley,
and the happy mother of seven children.
	MRS. Gould, the founder of the Italio-
American school at Rome, is dead. Her re-
mains have been forwarded to America.
	MRS. Mary Mapes Dodge has returned
home from her summering in the Adiron-
dacks with her health entirely restored.
She has resumed her editorial duties on the 
St. Nicholas.
	MISS Annie Oliver, the girl preacher, of
whom much has been said and written re-
cently, was born in New York and graduat-
ed at Rutgers Female College. She says
she preaches because she loves to, and be-
cause she feels she has been called to the
ministry. In the crusade against liquor
in Ohio she commenced at the Temperance
meetings as she says, to talk to knots of
men and soon gained confidence to address
a throng. After making up her mind to en-
gage in this work she concluded she must
prepare herself by study like the other sex;
she applied first to the Congregational semi-
naries (which was her own church) then to


the Presbyterian but they were all too dig-
nified and exclusive. She says she applied
to fourteen in all, at last she found a univer-
sity in Boston which accepted her as a stu-
dent. Oberlin College allowed her to study
the languages, and the professors she says
thought they were doing a great thing for
her and said no other church would do as
much.


For the EXPONENT
WHY WAS NOT I AN AUTHORESS

	I am sure I've tried hard enough. But
I am subject to such strange flights of fancy
it is almost impossible for me to write two
sentences connectedly on any particular sub-
ject. Many and many a time have I sat
down with pen, ink and paper, resolving
that "this time, I will write something in-
teresting." But alas! for my resolves; it
has proven as fallible as all former efforts;
before I have written two lines on my sub-
ject, I find myself a hopeless wanderer in a 
labyrinth of ideas, without being able as
some of my companions are, of bringing
order out of chaos. At other times I have
written a lengthy article, and after having
read it carefully, decide in my own mind,
that "this will do, if I can only find a name
for it;" but there it is again,! not being on
any particular subject, I find it very difficult
to obtain a suitable title for my productions.
Who will wonder then, that after having
passed through all these trying circumstan-
ces, I have almost resolved in my own mind
to write no more, but to select some occupa-
tion better adapted to my temperament,
which my mother often tells me is very—
				HIGHTY TIGHTY.


FLOWERS.

	THE soul that suffers is stronger than the
soul that rejoices.—Elizabeth Shepherd.
	MANY actions, like the Rhone, have two
sources—one pure, the other impure.—J. C.
Hare.
	HE who does a base thing in zeal for his
friend burns the golden thread that ties their
hearts together.
	AS fortune often hides under the mean-
est trades in life the greatest virtues, so are
the greatest geniuses found frequently lodg-
ed by nature in the most deformed and mis-
shapen bodies.
	IT is a good and safe rule to sojourn in
every place as if you meant to spend your
life there, never omitting an opportunity of
doing a kindness or speaking a true word or
making a friend. Seeds thus sown by the
wayside often bring forth an abundant har-
vest.
	LIFE, according to an Arabic proverb, is
composed of two parts—that which is past,
a dream, and that which is to come, a wish.
	IT is never too late with us so long as we
are still aware of our faults and bear them
impatiently—so long as aspirations eager for
conquest stir within us.
	I KNOW of but two beautiful things: the
starry heavens above my head, and the sense
of duty within my heart.—Kent.
	THEY who are most weary of life, and
are most unwilling to die, are such as have
lived to no purpose—who have rather
breathed than lived.


THE value of the estate of the late ex-
President Johnson proves to be about $175,-
000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S ADMIRATION OF POWER.

	One of the distinctive mental traits in
women springs out of the relation of the
sexes as ajusted to the welfare of the race.
I refer to the effect which the manifestation
of power of every kind in men has in de-
termining the attachments of women. To
this admiration for power is ascribable the
fact, sometimes commented upon as strange,
that women will continue attached to men
who use them ill, but whose brutality goes
along with power, more than they will con-
tinue attached to weaker men who use them
well. With this admiration of power, pri-
marily having this function, there goes the 
admiration of power in general, which is
more marked in women than in men, and
shows itself both theologically and politi-
cally. That the emotion of awe aroused by
contemplating whatever suggests transcend-
ent force or capacity, which constitutes re-
ligious feeling, is strongest in women, is
proved in many years. We read that
among the Greeks the women were more
religiously excitable than the men. Sir
Rutherford Alcock tell us of the Japanese,
that "In the temples it is very rare to see
any congregation except women and child-
ren; the men, at any time, are very few,
and those generally of the lower classes."
Of the pilgrims to the Temple of Jugger-
naut it is stated that "at least five-sixths,
and often nine-tenths of them are females."
And we are also told of the Sikhs, that the
women believe in more gods than the men
do. Which facts; coming from different ra-
ces and times, sufficiently show us that the
like fact, familiar to us in Roman Catholic
countries, and to some extent at home, is
not, as many think, due to the education of
women, but has a deeper cause in natural
character. And to this same cause is in
like manner ascribed the greater respect felt
by women for all embodiments and symbols
of authority, governmental and social.—
Herbert Spencer.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR SISTERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY:
	I feel myself highly honored with a name
among you, and for the privilege of address-
ing you through the the EXPONENT.
	I consider I am addressing the Daughters
of Zion, children of the living and true
God.
	The world may boast of her high ranks
of nobility, her ladies, duchesses, queens,
and empresses, although their apparel and
equipage are the most beautiful of the
productions of earth, adorned with gold,
silver, pearls and diamonds, and they are
honored by the whole world, and almost
worshipped by their subjects, their minds
are filled with care and anxiety: they know
if they are most fortunate, they can live but
a few short years before they must lay down
their mortal bodies, and with them all the 
glory and honor which, through the bless-
ing of God, has been conferred upon them
by mortals, and lie as low as the lowest.
	Not so with the rank, glory and honor of 
the daughters of Zion; it is not conferred
on them by mortal man, but by God their
Father, as a reward for their obedience to
His requirements; which glory, power and
honor is everlasting in the presence of God
their Father and His Son Jesus Christ.
	Yes, and with them we shall inherit the 
earth with all its riches, and live under the
peaceful reign of Christ, "when righteous-
ness shall cover the earth as the waters do
the face of the deep." Let us praise God


for His loving kindness to us, and for His
tender mercies over all the works of His
hands. While we humbly compare His
dealings with the human family (His own
offspring formed in His own image, pos-
sessed of faculties like His own in embryo,
yet through disobedience alienated from
his presence) I say, let us compare the love
of our heavenly Father, as evinced in his
dealings with the human family, and ex-
plained by divine revelation, with our love
for, and our dealings with our own offspring
in the flesh.
						EXCELETTE.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
		AN OLD MAID'S PROTEST.

 I suppose you men, "lords of creation,"
entertain the idea, that because some peo-
ple remain single and continue to remain
single for an unlimited length of time (and
these persons happening to be of the femi-
nine persuasion) that it is because they nev-
er have had the opportunity of changing
their conditions in life. Let me hasten to 
disabuse you of these false impressions, and
assure you that such is not the case, but
that it is possible, absolutely possible for
some persons to exist, even when debarred
the exquisite pleasure of the charming
society of the sterner sex.
	I have no doubt but that you will greet
this with a cynical smile, as your conceit
and vanity are developed to such an extent
as to prevent you from accepting it as truth.
But such it is. You may call me "Wo-
man's rights advocate," "Blue stocking," or
any other tender epithet, I care not. I am
independent, and not afraid because I am a
woman to express my views on any subject.
You may think I am only joking; but I warn
you not to test the truth of my remarks by
proposing to me, for I have such an utter
detestation for the whole sex that it is with
the greatest difficulty that I can treat the
men with common civility. And don't
think I have been crossed in love either,
for I hav'n't.
	THE OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	As soon as a boil becomes hard and inflamed
paint it with iodine. The poison will not be scat-
tered, but will be absorbed by it.
	To Cure a Ringworm.—Paint it with iodine a
few times and it will entirely destroy exery ves-
tige of it.
	For Consumptive tendency or hemorrhage of
the lungs, never overtax the system nor exhaust it
by excesses, eat plenty of wholesome, nutritious
food, sleep eight hours every night, and enlarge
and expand the chest by the right sort of physical
culture and an out of door life. If sedentary in
habits, then be sure to take systematic exercise
daily.
	To Stop Bleeding at the Nose.—It is worth
while to know how to stop the bleeding from the
nose when it becomes excessive. If the finger is
pressed firmly upon thn little artery that supplies
the blood to the side of the face affected, the result
is accomplished. The two small arteries branch-
ing up from the main arteries on each side of the
neck, and passing over the outside of the jawbone,
supply the face with blood. If the nose bleeds
from the right nostril for example, pass the finger
along the edge of the right jaw till the beating of
the artery is felt. Press hard upon it, and the
bleeding will cease. Continue the pressure five
minutes, until the ruptured vessels in the nose
have time to contract.


What is in the Bed-room?—If two persons are
to occupy a bed-room during the night, let them
step on a weighing scale as they retire, and then
again in the morning, and they will find that their
actual weight is at least a pound less in the morn-
ing. Frequently there will be a loss of two or
more pounds, and the average loss throughout the
year will be a pound of matter, which has gone off
from their bodies, partly from the lungs, and part-
ly through the pores of the skin. The escaped mat-
ter is carbonic acid and decayed animal matter of
poisonous exhalation. This is diffused through the
air in part, and part absorbed by the bed-clothes. If
a single ounce of wood-cotton be burned in a room,
it will so completely saturate the air with smoke
that one can hardly breathe, though there can
hardly be one ounce of foreign matter in the air.
If an ounce of cotton be burned every half an
hour during the night, the air will be kept con-
tinually saturated with smoke, unless there be an
open window or door for its escape. Now, the
sixteen ounces of smoke thus formed is far less
poisonous than the sixteen exhalations from the
lungs and bodies of two persons who have lost a
pound in weight during the eight hours of sleeping;
for, while the dry smoke is mainly taken into the
lungs, the damp odors from the body are absorbed
both into the lungs and into the pores of the whole
body. Need more be said to show the importance
of having bedrooms well ventilated, and of thor-
oughly airing the sheets, coverlids and mattresses
in the morning, before packing them up in the
form of a neatly made bed.


MOTHER'S BOY.

	Mother, cherish your boy. Respect him,
and encourage him to talk with you. Ask
questions about things that interest him.
Caress and kiss him, and prove yourself the
best friend by showing your love. How is
your little boy to know that you love him,
if you never fondle him? if you continually
repel his advances.
	Many mothers cease to show their love
as soon as a child is four or five years old.
Little boys after this get fewer kisses, be-
cause, frequently they soiled their hands
and faces in play, and come in noisy, warm
and dirty, not just the sweet cheeks and lips
we loved to kiss, and instead of putting
back the matted curls, and with a little
cold water bathing the hot face, we say, go
away with you, dirty boys, I don't want to
look at you. How much better fold him to
your heart, kiss him and send him away
happy. I have not said indulge your boy,
but make him love you.
	You need not suffer him to correct you,
when older persons are talking. Teach him
to be silent in company, unless drawn out
by your guests, but alone at home, make
him your companion. If you hold his love
till he is fifteen, he will always cherish you.
Up to that age, many boys have little real
love or respect for their mothers, and the
fault lies nearer the mother than the son.—
Ex.


That same hour which first awakens a
child to the consciousness of being observed,
and to the sense of admiration, strips it of
its freedom and unpremeditated grace of
motion. Awkwardness follows hard upon
the consciousness of special notice, and the
very attempt to disguise embarrassment too
often issues in a secondary and more mark-
ed embarrassment.			—De Quincy.


WE hear that a California philosopher has
extracted the following reply from a school-
boy, to the query, "How is the earth divid-
ed, my lad?"	"By earthquakes, Sir."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	To Remove Stains on Spoons caused by using
them for boiled eggs; take a little common salt
moistened between the thumb and finger, and
briskly rub the stain, which will soon disappear.
	Putting Cream on Onions instead of butter, (or 
even a little milk if one has no cream,) removes
much of the strong flavor, and renders them less
likely to affect weak stomachs unpleasantly.
	Lamps are liable to explode when trimming is
neglected. The wick being charred low down in
the tube, the flame obtains access to the oil below.
	To Destroy Ants.—Wrap a piece of gum cam-
phor in cloth or paper to keep it from dissolving
and place it in or about your cupboard or sugar
and it will drive away those pests.
	Washing to Stiffen Fine Lace;—Dissolve a
lump of white sugar in a wine-glassful of cold
water.
	To Wash White Striped Stockings.—Make a
jelly, the night before it is wanted, of the best
yellow soap; wash the stockings in warm water
with a little salt in it, using the jelly instead of
soap; rinse in clear water, also with a little salt in
it; wring as dry as possible, and dry quickly.
	The following method of preserving cider swee
is recommended as superior to any other: "I allow
the cider, after it comes from the press, to stand
until the pomace settles. When this point is
reached I put it in a clear vessel, and let it come
to a boil, skimming off the scum carefully. It is
then put into kegs and demijohns, and tightly
corked and sealed. By this process I have excel-
lent sweet cider, not merely for the entire winter,
but for years. This method would not of course
be available where large quantities are made, but
for an ordinary family it answers admirably."
	Sandwiches for Picnics.—Boil a few pounds of
ham, and chop it very fine while it is still warm—
fat and lean together; rub dry mustard in propor-
tions to suit your taste through the mass; add as
much sweet butter as would go to the spreading of
your sandwiches, and when it is thoroughly mixed,
split light biscuits in halves and spread the ham
between.  These can be eaten without trouble; and
will be found excellent.  Add to them some
oranges, or any other fruit in season, a loaf of
cake—if you are a notable cake baker—a bottle of
cold tea well sweetened, a small lump of ice wrap-
ped in flannel, and you are well provisioned for the
day.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	BABIES are described as coupons attached
to the bonds of matrimony.
	WHEN does a lawyer work like a horse?
When he draws a conveyance.
	WHY don't Sweden have to send abroad
for cattle? Because she keeps her Stock-
holm.
	MRS. Gubbins says her husband is like a
tallow candle; he always will smoke when
he goes out.
	PRECOCIOUS boy munching the fruit of 
the date tree: "Mamma, if I eat dates
enough will I grow up to be an almanac?
	"Do you like codfish balls, Mr. Wiggins?"
Mr. Wiggins, hesitatingly, "I really don't 
know; I don't recollect attending one."
	WHEN may the lawyer's clerk be said to 
have seen much of the world?—When he
has witnessed many deeds.
	PRIDE is an extravagant opinion of our 
own worthiness; vanity is an inordinate
desire that others should share that opinion.
—[Cummings.


ANYTHING Midas touched was turned to
gold. In these days, touch a man with gold
and he'll turn into anything.
	"DOCTOR," asked a convalescent, "can I
eat a bit of pork-chop or bacon this morn-
ing?" "Hardly," replied the Medicus, "to
eat the chop would be rash, and the bacon
rasher"
	LYING is like trying to hide in a fog; if
you move about, you are in danger of bump-
ing your head against the truth; as soon as
the fog blows up, you are gone anyhow.
	A rude fellow once told Barnum that he
had never exhibited anything that was not
a bare faced humbug. "Yes, I have," said
Barnum; "the bearded lady wasn't bare-
faced."
	"WHAT do you know of the character of
this man?" was asked of a witness in Court
the other day. "I know it to be unbleach-
able, your honor," replied the witness with 
much emphasis.
	THERE is a village in New Hampshire
that has produced twenty-six editors, and it
was in allusion to this circumstance that a
pious old deacon there remarked, "Yes,
there were twenty-six on 'em, but as they've
all left town, I reckon the Lord won't lay it
up agin us."
	A young and beautiful widow was about
to marry a rich old widower. Her friends
wished to know what she wanted to marry
him for. She replied, "For pure love. I
love the ground" (meaning the estate, prob-
ably) "on which he walks."
	SIDNEY Smith had a maid who used to
boil the eggs very well by her master's
watch; but one day he could not lend it to
her, because it was under repair, so she took
the time from the kitchen clock, and the
eggs came up nearly raw. "Why didn't
you take three minutes from the clock as
you do from the watch, Mary?" "Well,
Sir," replied Mary, "I thought that would
be too much, as the hands are so much
larger."
	THE Boston "Post" says there are only
41,000 lawyers in this country. The Detroit
"Free Press" exclaims that it thought there
were 1,500,000, with Texas to hear from.


MITCHEL & JAMES.
			Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
		                    AGENTS FOR
        RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
			Pumps Repaired on short notice.
		Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	    Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

					   - NEW - 
				  ARRIVALS DAILY
		      Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
				  S. P. TEASDEL'S.
		Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels. Linseys,
		Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for
		Ladies at Reduced Prices.  Boys' and Childrens'
			Clothing. Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
			Low prices and good attention to the
				wants of our patrons.
								S.P. TEASDEL

				   MILLINERY. 
 				MRS. C. E. DYE.
		Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
	    for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
	   commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
	Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
	Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times. 

				    Z. C. M. I. 
			Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of 
	 DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	     HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	       GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	          STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

				O. L. ELIASON,
				DEALER IN
		Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry.
		Second South Street, Opposite Walker
				Brothers' Bank.
	Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for
				ONE YEAR. 

			IF YOU WANT CHEAP
	COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
		TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
				  GO TO
			W. HARRISON'S.
	One door South of Constitution Buildings,
				Main Street. 

			     THE KIND OF
			BOOTS AND SHOES
		EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable
		     priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Reparing
       Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates. 
			S. P. CROMPTON, Supt. 

			  Mrs. WILKINSON
	Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
		and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of 
	          LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
	With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
		at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., West
				of Z.C.M.I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL. 

				LADIES 
	If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
	Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send them to the
		UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt. 

			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
					AND
			GENERAL DRY GOODS.
	Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks. 
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
					H.E. PHELPS,
						29 East Temple Street.

			H. DINWOODEY, 
	  WHOLESALE RETAIL DEALER IN
			     FURNITURE!
	 SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
			Feathers, Wall Paper,
				  and 
		    BABY CARRIAGES! 
	75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1875.	No. 11.﻿


For the EXPONENT.
		INDIAN SUMMER.

Fair Indian Summer, mellow, calm and sweet,
	Another of thy golden days is done;
In mystic silence glide thy viewless feet
	While sinks again to rest thy gorgeous sun.
The herds' faint lowing from the meadow dells
	Floats like an echo on the dreamy air,
The mellow tinkle of their distant bells
	Suggests faint music from Cathedrals fair.

The husbandman rejoices in the store
	Which he from bounteous Mother Earth hath won,
And smiling Plenty blesses o'er and o'er
	The sturdy toiler whom she calls her son.
My days drift by in idle dreaming spent,
	Unheeding daily duties left undone;
This halcyon season seems a riddle sent
	Which I all vainly waste my moments on.

The soft air whispers strange mysterious things
	Of Summer gone and Winter yet to come,
And other, deeper tones which strike the hidden strings
	Whence over my soul's saddest music rung.
I torture my dull senses to disclose
	The meaning of vague hints of pain and fear,
Like wild unrest behind this sweet repose,
	Or stormwinds closing in the smiling year.

Like sorrow come unbidden to the feast
	Where joy with all his chosen friends sits down—
Like blighting Hate from out the cold, gray east
	Where Love's warm sun before was smiling down—
As such do I distrust this meek repose,
	This languid grace, this hazy, golden glow,
False as the hollow truce when ruthless foes
	Pause but to strike a surer, deadlier blow,

Why must the sweetest dream but wake to fears?
	The fairest season usher storm and cold?
The brghtest hopes but end in grief and tears?
	The loveliest bud a cankerworm unfold?—
My heart grows faint, my eyes are dim with tears—
	My youth like some sad ghost before me stands—
For all the glorious hopes of those bright years
	She grasps but straws in eager, empty hands.

Life seems untrue to every promise given,
	And mocks ach lofty aim with cruel scorn!
Oh tell me! is there even truth in Heaven?
	And why, oh why! were poor frail mortals born?
My weak and wavering gaze now sadly roves
	To rest upon yon mountain's waving line—
Their calm, majestic grandeur of repose.
	Rebukes this childish restlessness of mine.

Their sentry pines each lofty summit crown,
	Their ripening woods and thickets redly gleam,
And from their fruitful chambers trickle down.
	To bless the vale, full many a sparkling stream.
The low, red light gilds every dome and swell,
	In tender shade the bosky hollows rest—
Oh! restful hills! teach me your lesson well—
	In blessing others we are doubly blest.

And Thou, whose just will hid from mortal sight
	I dared to weakly question even now,
Forgive! and lead my faltering steps aright;
	And, like Thy mountains, may I never bow
'Neath cloud or storm, but, steadfast and serene
	Through good and ill, still patiently await
Whatever in Thy wisdom Thou dost deem 
	Is for Thy loving child a fitting fate.
								LU DALTON.


For the EXPONENT.

A CAUTION TO YOUNG HUSBANDS.

	It appears strange perhaps, that in writ-
ing for a woman's paper I should choose such
a subject. But the truth is, I know several
young gentlemen who take great interest
in the EXPONENT and never fail to read it.
And of course there are many others with
whom I am not acquainted, who will be
more likely to notice the hints I propose to
offer, here, than if they found them else-
where. I do not suppose that in what I
have to say there will be anything new, or
that our intelligent young men do not al-
ready comprehend, if they have ever
thought upon the subject; but are not those
who seek to instruct obliged to repeat over
and over again the same lessons in order to
impress them upon the minds of the learn-
ers? Yes, and the same lesson must often 
be given in a variety of ways to be rendered
comprehensible to each member of the class.
	So I hope my humble effort may not be 
vain, but that what I write may prove, if
even in a single degree, beneficial to some
one. 	
	Young gentlemen then, whoever you are,
do not imagine you "know it all" when in-
deed you know so little; but be willing to be
advised, even by a woman.
	In choosing a life companion, do not al-
low yourself to be so romantic as to suppose
a girl who would consent to be your wife
can be all angelic and free from mortal 
foibles. If, however, you must indulge such
thoughts, that the momentary bliss exist-
ing during the time of engagement and the
"honeymoon" may really seem to embody
heavenly completeness, when you find out
your mistake, which you are sure to do
sooner or later, do not suffer yourself to be
so thoroughly disappointed as to loose the
proper respect for your wife that you are
morally bound to retain. Try to be consist-
ent. Do not consider that a woman should
be faultless. She is born like yourself with
weaknesses which must be overcome; and
you should graciously extend to her the
same charity you hope to receive.
	The folly of over-estimating woman's
worth is by no means so gross as that despi-
cable spleen which characterizes some little
minds--the idea that woman is so inferior
to man that she has no right to a voice nor
even  an opinion of her own. Don't set too
high a value on your own abilities young
man; and do not be so outrageously practi-
cal as to undertake life, married life, with-
out the essential stimulant--PURE TRUE
LOVE!
	I know a young man who, the second or
third morning after the nuptial ceremony
had taken place, opened conversation with
his hopeful young bride in the following
manner.
	"My idea is to begin married life in a
manner that can be sustained.
	"We will not have any "honey-moon,"
then we shall never have regrets over its
waning. I realize that we differ materi-
ally in our natures and also in our educa-
tions; but I think I shall be able to modify
you--that is, mold you over, and make of
you just what I want, in time. For the
present, I must do the best I can. It will be
your place simply to do as I tell you, so you
will have an easy enough time of it. I shall
myself unravel all the knotty questions and
direct how things shall be done.
	"I must now go away on business, shall
be back after awhile. You may clear off
the table and do up your work, and we will
resume this conversation at a future time,
as it is necessary that we come to a correct
understanding."
	Many will think that a man twenty years
old who could speak thus, was a fool; yet he
was not. On the contrary, he had many
fine traits of character, but he did know
how to make himself a good and agreeable
husband. The LOVE was wanting, on his 
side, altogether. And the young wife who
looked upon him with a sort of exaggerated
admiration, akin to that romantic love which
imagines its object faultless, was doomed to
severe disappointment.
	Remember that the most perfect under-
standings that can be arrived at before mar-
riage should be. No matter how tenderly a 
couple may be devoted to each other, a
broken engagement is far less deplorable
than an unhappy marriage.
	If you, young man, know of any pecu-
liarity in the character of the girl you
wish to marry, of which, as your wife you
would like her dispossessd, do not be so cow-
ardly as to forbear mentioning it until af-
ter marriage. Even at the risk of loosing
your chance of becoming a husband just 
when and where you would like, it is best
to talk frankly and feelingly upon all im-
portant subjects, and, as I said before, gain
as perfect an understanding of each others
disposition as possible.
	It is an excellent plan, one of mutual im-
provement, to agree beforehand, that what-
ever one notices of a disparaging nature in 
the other, shall be courteously brought in-
to consideration. Also that if one shall un-
wittingly touch the feelings of the other in
a painful manner, the case shall not be al-
lowed to slumber but be instantly made
known, that an explanation may be given.
Then, hold to these good resolutions, and it
is as easy to live in peace and have ever in-
creasing love with all its beautiful tenden-
cies to cheer life's pathway, as, on the other
hand, to be continually fault finding and at
variance.	
	There are very many important points to
be considered in connection with this
highly interesting subject, young married
life. To enter upon its course in the right
way is the great secret. Avoid the first
frown, the first impatient word, the first sel-
fish action; and there will follow no quarrels
and no heart-aches. There should be no
waning to the true "honey-moon;" it should
shine forever, and husbands and wives
should never cease to be lovers.
		MABEL.


BE OF GOOD CHEER.—A man who ac-
quires a habit of giving way to depression
is on the road to ruin.  When trouble comes
upon him, instead of rousing his energies
to combat it, he weakens, and his faculties
grow dull, and his judgment becomes ob-
scured and he sinks into the slough of de-
spair. And if anybody pulls him out by
main force and places him safe on solid
ground, he is pretty sure to waste the means
of help which have been given him. How
different it is with the man who takes a
cheery view of life even at its worst and fa-
ces every ill with unyielding pluck! He
may be swept away by an overwhelming
tide of misfortune, but he bravely struggles
for the shore, and is ever ready to make the
most of the help that may be given him.
A cheerful, hopeful, courageous disposition
is an invaluable trait of character, and
should be assiduously cultivated.


82									WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Oct.
16th, was very largely attended, and the 
utmost in erest manifested in the proceed-
ings of the meeting,  After the usual exer-
cises and reading of minutes from the diff-
erent secretaries; President Mrs. M. I. Horne
called upon Elder J. F. Wells to speak to 
the sisters.  He spoke approvingly of the 
efforts of the young ladies of the Retrench-
ment Societies, and he said he must ac-
knowledge that at present they were ahead
of the young men.
	Mr. E. W. Tullidge also made some re-
marks by invitation, in which he applauded
the sisters highly in their labors and enter-
prise for the good of humanity, and the cul-
tivation of all those higher faculties which
are most conducive to refinement and eleva-
tion of character.
			Santaquin Sept. 26, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
We held our seventh annual meeting of 
the Relief Society Sept. the second, on which
occasion we had a most happy time.  Visi-
tors were present from Payson and Goshen,
also some brethren from the north. Many
of the sisters talked of the goodness of God
and the blessings of the Gospel and how 
thankful they were that the time had come
when they could renew their covenants
with the Lord, and commence anew.  They
talked with a freedom that astonished the 
brethren.  Our Bishop is beloved by the 
people: he spoke of the importance of wo-
man's part in the Church of Jesus Christ,
exhorted them to go right to work and man-
ufacture their own hats and bonnets: hats,
caps, and gloves for the brethren, also cloth
slippers and shoes; but not neglect to culti-
vate the mind; told them to lead out in that 
gentleness of manner which characterize a
true Christian.
	Financially our Society is prospering.
Our President, for her zeal and faithfulness
in promoting the welfare of the Society and 
encouraging the sisters in the line of im-
provement, deserves a word of praise.
JULIA D. WILSON, Sec.
GOSHEN, Sept. 16th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
We as a settlement have been blessed
with good health this summer with the ex-
ception of the last two weeks, during which 
we have had considerable sickness, but
none fatal as yet.  I hope by the blessing of 
God the sick will soon recover.
	We have a Relief Society organized here,
and it is doing well for the size of the settle-
ment.  We hold two meetings each month,
and a good spirit generally prevails in them.
We have funds in the Provo Woolen Facto-
ry, and in the Goshen Co-operative Mercan-
tile Institution.  We have donated to the 
temples and to the P. E. F. Company, not 
forgetting the needy at home.
Please accept of my best wishes for your
temporal and spiritual welfare.  I remain
your affectionate sister in the New and Ever-
lasting Covenant,
MARY JOHNSON.
MORONI, SANPETE Co., Oct 6th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
Knowing you have a desire for the welfare
of the Daughters of Zion, I take the liberty
of writing a few lines to inform you that,
since our beloved Sister Snow and company
visited us we have increased in numbers.
She said that all virtuous women should be-
come members of the Relief Society.  I 
trust that the good counsel we received from
our sisters will make a lasting impression
upon our minds, that we may not be hear-
ers of their words alone but doers of it also.
It is only by doing the things that we are
commanded that we shall obtain a celestial
glory in the kingdom of God.  We feel to 
anticipate the time when we shall see a 
temple raised in Sanpete Co., that we may
go through that house and do our duty for 
the dead as well as the living, so that we
may become saviours on Mount Zion.
The sisters are united and we are striving
to do good in helping the missionaries, who 
have been called to go to the nations of the 
earth to preach the gospel, with means.
We organized a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association last June.  They have 
commenced braiding straw to make their 
own hats, and are willing to encourage
HOME MANUFACTURE.
Times are dull and money scarce, that has
been the cause of our not renewing our sub-
scription, but hope that we shall be able to 
continue to take your valuable paper.
JANE BAILEY, President.
CHRISTIANA CHRISTIANSON
SARAH HOLLY      Counselors.
ANNE DASTRUY, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE is to be a Masonic congress in
London, in 1877 in which all parts of the
world are to be represented.
	A VERY destructive fire in Virginia City,
Nevada, Tuesday, Oct. 26th, which de-
stroyed nearly all the business portions of
the city; it is said ten thousand people are
rendered homeless.
	BRET HART, the humorous poet and nov-
elist, has gone to New York with his family,
and taken up his abode for the Winter at
Fifth Avenue Hotel.
	ONE OF the products of California, that
will be on exhibition at the Centennial is a
section of one of the big trees of that state.
It was taken from a tree 373 feet high with
a diameter at the base of 26 feet, and is, ac-
cording to the yearly rings, 2,120 years
old.
	THE LADY who was the subject of Byron's
poem "Maid of Athens," according to a let-
ter from the United States Counsul agent,
published in the "Woman's Journal" of Oct.
16th, is still living at Athens, with her
daughter, who is said to be a lovely lady
of exquisite manners. It is said Lord By-
ron wrote that poem after the refusal of the
Lady's hand in marriage.
	A WOMAN'S Missionary meeting was con-
vened in St. Paul, Minnesota, Oct. 7th; re-
ports were given from different places of
their labors in the Missionary societies of
the West. During the meeting an inter-
esting paper entitled, "Do Foreign Missions
Pay?" was read by one of the ladies. The
women of the world are awakened to a reali-
zation of what they think duty, and are
desirous even to make sacrifices and prac-
tice self-denial for the sake of promulgating
those principles they believe to be true;
ought not the women of the Latter-day
Saints, who profess to know the truth by
testimony for themselves, to come forward
and show themselves valiant in laboring to
do good to their fellow beings?


HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASY.

	Regarding theories only as nicely poised
speculative principles—to be more admired
than practiced—we pass them lightly by,
and deal with the facts of commonplace
things of every day life, For the benefit
of the young housekeeper, just embarking
on this chequered voyage, we would re-
peat the few simple principles given to us
twenty-five years ago by an experienced,
practical friend, in favor of which we now
declare after so long a test. First, look with
care that nothing be wasted; second, a place
for each article, and always in its place.
This is easy even for those who occu-
py small houses. A few bags, each with
two eyelets, by which to hang against the
wall in some convenient place, will aflord
ample storage for a great number of articles.
One will contain the hosiery for a family;
another, the waste scraps, fit only for the
ragman; in another may be deposited in
neat rolls, the larger pieces for future need.
One should always be provided in the pan-
try for holding spare tea cloths; balls of
cotton, also, are quite safe in such a place.
Thirdly, see that everything is kept scrupu-
lously clean. Once a week the labors of the
laundry should embrace and cleanse each
solid garment or piece of cotton or linen,
no matter how small or unimportant it may
seem. Let no garment pass from the iron-
ing-board to its fixed deposit without being
in perfect readiness if called for at any mo-
ment. Especially is cleanliness desirable
in all culinary operations. First, in the
proper care of stove furniture, well washed
and rinsed, then dried and hung or placed
on shelves, then rinsed again with scalding
water before being used; this will insure
freedom from the least particle of impurity.
	The comfort and elegance of a meal con-
sists not so much in the elaborate display of
china, glass, and silver, or the great variety
of viands, as it does in simplicity and neat-
ness. A snowy, well-ironed tablecloth,
with bright service neatly arranged, and a
few well prepared dishes, chief among
which are the soft, fresh bread, and sweet
golden butter, from out a dairy kept sweet
be plenty of pure air, and whose pans are
regarded as carefully as though they were
china vases. With these few easy princi-
ples accepted as guides, many a gloomy
house would be converted into a cheerful,
smiling home. Many a poor man would
become wealthy. Comfort and plenty would
take the place of disquiet and want.
	In every well regulated home there are
seasons and hours for recreation; both for
body and mind. Rest consists not in the
entire cessation of labor but we find it
most and sweetest in the change from
drudgery to some lighter employment in
which the mind takes a pleasing interest;
something that calls into exercise the
pleasing emotions of our nature, from the
constant exercise of which we receive a
healthy vigor that laughs at nostrums. A
thrill of joy sends the blood through its
channels with an accelerated motion that
drives disease away. Hence, we find the
care of flowers of so great consequence, and
assign to them a place in every home.


WE have social strengths. Our affection
towards others creates a sort of vantage or
purchase which nothing will supply. I can
do that by another which I cannot do alone.
I can say to you what I cannot first say to
myself. Other men are lenses through
which we read our own mind.—Emerson.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"POST-MORTEM LOVE."

	BY MRS. HATTIE F. BELL

If you're ever going to love me,
	Love me now, while I can know
All the sweet and tender feelings
	Which from real affection flow.
Love me now, while I am living;
	Do not wait till I am gone,
And then chisel it in marble—
	Warm love-words on ice-cold stone.

If you've dear, sweet thoughts about me,
	Why not whisper them to me?
Don't you know t'would make me happy.
	And as glad as glad can be?
If you wait till I am sleeping
	Ne'er to waken here again,
There'll be walls of earth between us,
	And I couldn't hear you then.

If you knew some one was thirsting
	For a drop of water sweet,
Would you be so slow to bring it?
	Would you step with laggard feet?
There are tender hearts all 'round us,
	Who are thirsting for our love,
Shall we begrudge to them what Heaven
	Has kindly sent us from above?

I won't need your kind caresses
	When the grass grows o'er my face.
I won't crave your love and kisses
	In my last, low, resting-place.
So if you do love me any,
	If it's but a little bit,
I'd rather know it now, while I
	Can, living, own and treasure it.


[Column 1]
	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
						Sept. 12th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is an old saying, "Better late than
never," so I think in regard to writing an
article for your paper.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor to
our island home. It is sent to Sister Lam-
bert, through her mother I presume. She
is very kind to loan it to the rest of us, so
we all enjoy reading its contents.
	I am much pleased to learn of the great
interest which the women of Utah are
taking in promoting home industries, and
in many other ways assisting the brethren
in the great work of the last days.
	Woman was made to be a helpmeet for
man, not a ruler nor dictator. Every mar-
ried woman can do much in aiding her hus-
band in carrying out the principles of the
"United Order." Union of feelings and
interests must begin in families. If a man's
family is united with him in all things they
can accomplish much. From this nucleus
it extends to neighborhoods, then to wards,
cities, &c., until all are united as one.
	Last Sunday, the 5th inst., Prest. Alma L.
Smith, Brother and Sister Lambert and my-
self, met with the saints at Kahana, went
in the carriage, had a very pleasant ride.
Kahana is the land which was purchased by
the natives in June, 1874. It is situated
about eight miles south of Laie. They pay
$6,000 for it, have paid $3,000 and given a
mortgage on the place for the balance. They
seem to be united, and are doing well. We
held meeting with them, dedicated their
new meeting house, administered the Sacra-
ment, organized a branch of the Chruch,
appointed a President and counselors.
President Smith offered the dedicatory
prayer, which was very appropriate. After
which he delivered a very interesting dis-
course, which was listened to with marked
attention by the congregation. At noon we
partook of a native meal. The table was
spread in the meeting house. The meal
consisted of poi, fish, beef, pork and small
shell fish resembling snails. Our beverage
was water. The dinner was served in good
native style, and looked quite inviting.

[Column 2]
Our ride had given us an appetite, and, I
assure you, we did justice to our dinner.
	In the afternoon Bro. R. G. Lambert held
forth; his discourse was not lengthy, though
very good; several native elders also
preached. About 5 p. m. we left for home,
after a hearty shaking of hands with the
Saints of Kahana.
	About two weeks since, Prest. Smith was
in Honolulu. Having a little matter of
business with the king, he solicited an in-
terview, which was readily granted. His
Majesty received him at his palace, with
pleasure. They conversed familiarly on
many topics, Utah and her people among
the rest. His Majesty entertains a friendly
feeling towards our people. At the close of
the interview his Majesty spoke of making
a visit to Laie on business, and appointed
Friday the 17th inst. for his visit. He
comes as a private citizen, with one or two
other gentlemen. Will dine with us.
	I am getting on nicely with my school.
Have twenty pupils, who are very regular
in their attendance, and are interested in
their studies. Had a public examination
of my pupils last Friday the 10th inst. The
exercises passed off pleasantly. Have closed
my school until after Conference, realizing
that a little rest from school labors would be
beneficial to my health. Our Sunday School
is in good condition. The English lan-
guage is taught exclusively, all who attend
the school are much interested in learning
it. Many grown persons attend.
	Work on the plantation is progressing
well; a new crop of cane is being planted;
for some time past they have been busy
plowing, and are getting on well with it
from what I can learn.
	All is peace on Laie, the brethren and
sisters, both foreign and native, are feeling
well. We all enjoy the spirit of our mis-
sions, but at tines we feel a little lonesome,
our number being so small, only four of us.
Who would not be?
	We have meetings every Sunday at 10 a.
m. in the meeting house for the natives; at
2 p, m. our Sunday School meets, and at 7
p. m. we have a prayer meeting and sing-
ing for us foreigners; we meet alternately
at each others houses.
	Brother and Sister Woolley are on the
island of Kauai, about one hundred miles
from here. He went as a missionary to
preach to the people and learn the language;
she went for "an out," and we hear that
she is enjoying herself finely.
	Bros. S. P. Richards and B. Stringham
are on the island of Hawaii traveling and
preaching. Bros. Wm. Pulsipher and W.
H. Branch are traveling on the islands of
Maui, Molokai and Sanai. We have heard
from them all recently, they are well and
feeling first rate. We expect them all here
at Conference, and anticipate a happy re-
union after a separation of some five months.
					M. E. RANDALL.


[column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Beloved sisters of the Relief Society, my
whole soul is filled with adoration, thanks-
giving and praise to God our Father for His
loving kindness extended toward us, in
granting us the privilege of living in this
age of light and knowledge, when truth is
revealed to His children in all its purity
and excellence.
	I would hold sweet converse with you
upon the glorious principles of the Order
of the Son of God, as revealed through our
Prophet and Seer, Brigham Young, and we
would thus see how amicably the require-
ments of this order compare with God's

[column 2]
laws as revealed through His Son. As it is
impossible for me to see all, I will here ex-
press some of my views and send them to
the EXPONENT, confident, that if through
the Spirit of God I write anything worthy
of your perusal, you may each receive it
through its columns.
	Jesus said: 22nd chapt. Math. "Thou
shalt love the Lord Thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul and with all thy
mind. This is the first and great com-
mandment; and the second is like unto it.
"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
On these two commandments hang all the
law and the prophets.
	Now we cannot love God with all the af-
fections of the heart, and with all the ener-
gies of the mind and body, without a know-
ledge of His character and requirements.
Hence the necessity of referring to revela-
tion to know His character and laws. In
so doing we find God is omnipotent, omnis-
cient, unchangeable; a God of justice, judg-
ment, mercy and truth, long suffering, com-
passionate and impartial, and in every na-
tion he that fears God and works righteous-
ness is accepted of Him.
	Believing these revelations of the ex-
cellency of God's character, we can but
adore and praise the holy name of God our
Father; and the enquiry naturally arises,
how shall we prove our love to God. Jesus
Christ (who is one with the Father) has giv-
en us a rule by which we can prove our love
to God. St. John 14 chapt. 15 verse. "If
ye love me keep my commandments."
Again 23rd verse, "If a man love me he
will keep my words." 24th verse, "He that
loveth me not keepeth not my sayings."
Then if we wish to evince our love to God
we must keep all His commands as reveal-
ed through His Son, and our prophets Jos-
eph Smith and Brigham Young, not one
alone but all their sayings, devoting all our
energies, mental and physical, to His ser-
vice, with all which he has given us unre-
servedly. Then we are to show our love to
God by imitating the excellency of his char-
acter, in all the circumstances of life, show-
ing our love for knowledge by the acquisi-
tion of the same; of justice, mercy, truth,
long suffering and love, by the exercise of
the same in our daily walk and conversa-
tion. And like our Father in Heaven no
respector of persons, but one with all those
that fear God and work righteousness.
	The second commandment: "Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself." Jesus Christ
tells us how to obey this law, Math. 7 chapt.
12 verse: "Whatsoever ye would that man
should do to you, do ye even so to them,
for this is the law and the prophets."
	Sisters is not this in accordance with the
teachings of our Prophet and Seer Brigham
Young, that joined hand in hand we devote
our all in building up the kingdom of God.
And does he not show us by example that
we must love our enemies, bless them that
curse us, pray for them that despitefully use
and persecute us; and in so doing, accord-
ing to the words of our Saviour, we shall
be "like our Father in Heaven, who send-
eth His rain on the just and unjust."
						EXCELETTE.


TO-MORROW may never come to us. We
do not live in to morrow. We cannot find
it in any title deeds. The man who owns
whole blocks of real estate and great ships
on the sea does not own a single minute of
to morrow. To-morrow! It is a mysterious
possibility not yet born. It lies under the 
seal of midnight, behind the veil of glit-
tering constellations.


84								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. NOV. 1, 1875.


[column 1]

		"THE GOOD TIME COMING."

	There is doubtless less extravagance indulged
and consequent want produced in the world
through wasteful desires than from mistaken
opinions in regard to economy. It is one thing
to be willing to act with prudence and consis-
tency at all times-another to know how to do
so.
	A great failing with many laboring people is,
they try to accomplish too much in too little
time. Vast quantities of work of various kinds
are turned off hands only half done. This in
reality amounts to nothing less than a waste of
materials, a waste of mortal strength and a
double waste of precious time. If but half the
work were done and well done, that it might
reflect credit instead of discredit upon the per-
formers and accord full value for time and
means expended, this great drain would be
averted.
	Another very general mis-use of time and
strength, is the spending too large a portion of
both for things of minor importance, while
frequently the more essential ones, as care of
the health, attention to religious duties. return-
ing friendly courtesies and being genial and
agreeable, are done in haste, or left for leisure
moments which never come.
	Imagine a man or woman occupying a posi-
tion where week in week out, year in, year
out, the same routine of daily duties must be
rigorously performed. No chance for recrea-
tion or rest; or if a few hour's liberty is taken
now and then, there must be an extra pull
either beforehand or afterward. Such cases are
plentiful, because, alas! the work like the
wealth of the world is so unequally divided.
With more union there would be increased
strength; "many hands make light work."
	But nature has given to each one the desire
to become rich, or at least to lay up something
for the coming "rainy day." And with a di-
vision of work must come a division of the
profits. And labor as one may, scarcely is suf-
ficient received to supply actual needs.
	With this view, the best and brightest days
of many a life is worn out in absolute drudg-
ery. Of course, "hope keeps the heart whole"
-the hope of "a good time coming."
	A time when the hard earnings may be
quietly and peacefully enjoyed without the
necessity of undue exertion to keep along. A
sweet time when there will be opportunities
for social entertainment, and all the little pleas-
antries of life which appear so charming at a 
distance while engaged in by others.
	But how much better it would seem if, some-
how, circumstances might be brought about so
as to afford daily rest and just recompense for
labor to all. So that one should not be weighed
down with too heavy burdens, wearing life out

[column 2]

too fast; and another sighiug over ill health
caused by inaction, slowly dying for want of
exercise, or throwing life away on frivolous
pleasures. So that all might sometimes feel
that "the good time" had really come and that
their efforts and anticipations had not been 
vain.
	We can imagine the organization of co-op-
perative systems through which all labor might
be rendered comparatively easy, and be properly
done in proper time. So that the very practi-
cal lesson, "what is worth doing is worth do-
ing well," might never be lost sight of amid
the hurry-skurry and head-long rush through
life.
	But the failings spoken of above are general
and can only be remedied by a union of efforts.
It rests with the people, when the Lord will
have it so, to usher in the long looked for good
time that is sure to come, when all have
learned how to use each portion of it, letting
not the smallest particle go to waste.


THE GENIUS OF LETTER WRITING.

	Kind reader, did it ever occur to you that
letter-writing requires not only cultivation,
but, to be really successful, one must have
some talent inherent or intuitive?
	It is certainly an accomplishment, and one
refining to the mind and heart.
	In this so-called "fast age." steam-press, loco-
motion and telegraphy take foremost places,
and even genius, unless of a particular quick,
brilliant, or practical order, is below par. Re-
cently we heard a gentleman say in speaking
of a celebrated author: "I don't take much
stock in that kind of thing, it isn't the style
now in society." He was evidently a society
man, polished in manner and capable of con-
versing fluently, but seemingly took large stock
in whiskey, tobacco and politics.
	But society with its faults is not our subject,
and we forbear criticism upon it; excuse us for
trespassing.
	Telegraphy does away with much of the real
labor of letter-writing, enables one to save
time, strength, brains and fatigue, but it is
too expensive a luxury to be indulged in by all
classes upon all occasions, even were it adapta-
ble to all.
	The generality of people think letter-writing
a very ordinary thing; one may often hear
the remark made upon the question being
asked whether a person writes (or composes, to
be more explicit): "Well, yes they can write a
tolerable good letter;" meaning that they can
scratch off a few hurried lines, and know
where to date and put their signature, which
by the way is more than some people ever learn
in a lifetime.
	That letter-writing is a prolific source of de-
velopment to the mind and heart, to the writer
and receiver, is scarcely thought of.  Yet such
is the actual fact, as can be abundantly proven;
also that the letters of any certain age, if well
written and to the point, handed down to
other generations, might give one ideas upon
almost all the different topics of the times, the
business capacity, the status of the money
market, the government, etc.  Touching upon
these subjects, one might combine much of the
history of a past nation from the letters of some
of the most prominent writers of the time.
	This style of letter might not perhaps require
any particular talent in the writer, but even
these, if written in good feeling and with tact,
may be pleasing and genial in their way, and
not uninteresting to dis-interested persons.
	Some persons possessing good natural abili-
ties and a fair education fail to make themselves
at all entertaining in writing letters.  They
have no taste for it, or very frequently think it
only superfluous, a waste of time, and all that
sort of thing.
	Letters of friendship are among the finest
productions of this style of composition; letters
that when you read them you know are genuine
they carry the conviction with them; there
seems soul in them; they almost possess indi-
viduality they partake so much the character
of the writer; such letters are treasures to be
preserved.  It may be a time will come when
the dear hand that traced the lines in loving
thought and tenderness will be cold in death,
but in perusing them one may again unseal the
fountains of the past, and feel that nearness
that characterized the flow of loving words and
affectionate sentiments.  How deeply people
can sympathize with each other by letter, even
though separated by land or sea; acquain-
tanceship can be maintained, and social con-
versation carried on, thoughts and feelings
communicated with a cordiality and natural-
ness which will bring the absent friend before
one almost in living presence.  Such letters
are like whispers, or the echo of a whisper.
But to write them one must have faith in the
friend to whom they are writing and the full-
est confidence and trust in their friendship, and
then there will be no wall of reserve, no crusti-
ness of constraint.
	There are people whose letters  seem to
partake of themselves; they are a thing apart;
they lack genuineness; should you meet them
after reading their letters you would almost
question whether they had written them. Not
because they surpassed the individual, in
merit, or feeling, or tone, but were something
entirely dissimilar in character.  It is because
they leave themselves and the opinions they
profess, the sentiments they entertain, entirely
out, and shrink from committing them to pa-
per.  When you have read their letters you
know no more of the person than you did be-
fore.
	To be able to write a letter that will speak
to the heart, that imparts individuality with-
out self-consciousness, one must be possessed
of a soul which is eloquent in feeling, and of
sympathies which are undefinable.
	In conclusion it can only be said that the
person who can impart such personality in
letters as will transport you into their atmos-
phere and tell you more of their life in ten
minutes than another could in so many years,
possesses the true genius of letter writing.
	Kind reader, if your patience is not exhaust-
ed with so frivolous a subject, anon you shall
hear from us again under the title of old let-
ters.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR BARFOOT and C. R. Savage have a
stand at the Townsend House, where they will
keep for sale newspapers, photographic views
of Utah, mineral specimens, etc.

	ALEXANDER T. WHITE, the new Chief Jus-
tice, with his wife, son and daughter, was wel-
comed to this city on the afternoon of Sunday,
24th ult. We understand they took quarters at
the Townsend House.

	A COLD, cloudy season set in about the 25th
of October, as is nsual for the time of year, as
if to give warning of the approaching winter,
bid people beware and prepare for its ravages.
We hope for a little more bright, warm sun-
shine, however, before the chilly winds begin
to sigh in real earnest; “The melancholy days
have come!"


[Column 1]
	IN READING the Exponent, ladies, do not fail
to notice the advertisements on the last page.
Our design is, in advertising as in other re-
spects, to give place to nothing in these col-
umns that will not be of interest and benefit
to our readers. We take pleasure in recom-
mending especial attention to be given to the
Co-operative Institutions and Home Industries
established among the people here.
	ERRATUM.—In the Acrostic, "President
George Albert Smith," which appeared in the
EXPONENT of Oct. 1st, by the mis-placing of
words at the end of the second and third lines,
the rhyme is impaired. It should read:
		Prepare this sacred relic room,
			Receive this holy trust
		Enshrined with love and tears, O tomb!
		Sad offering—dust to dust!
	THE MOST destructive fire which has ever
raged in this city occurred Thursday evening,
Oct. 28th, on East Temple street opposite the
Wasatch Hotel, and burned all the buildings,
offices, stores, shops, etc., from the White
House to Yeoman's saloon just north of the
Walker House. The loss is estimated at $25,-
000. The firemen, it is said, performed their
part energetically and creditably; much praise
is due them.
	PROFESSOR J. L. Barfoot has recently opened
a commission agency and deals in minerals
and specimens of that kind. The Professor is
thoroughly versed in his business, and we
heartily wish him the patronage and success he
deserves. Orders can be left at the Deseret
Museum, or addressed through the Post Office,
box 816. Professor Barfoot has for some years
been Superintendent of the Museum in this
city.
	RECENTLY WE have received communications
for publication from different places and par-
ties, without the persons real signature at-
tached. We presume the parties to be young
persons who are ignorant of the laws of publi-
cation, otherwise they would know better. It
is proper and required of every contributor to
furnish the editor with their real name. Some
time ago these rules were published in these
columns, now we find it absolutely necessary
to re-publish it.
	MR. MARK Croxall was the recipient of a
complimentsry benefit at the Salt Lake Thea-
tre, on the evening of Saturday, Oct. 23rd. The
well-filled house showed the appreciation of the
public for the abilities and efforts of the mas-
terly cornet player, and the bill was varied
and attractive, so that all concerned were, or
should have been, pleased with the result. Sev-
eral parties have been given for the benefit of
some of the missionaries who have lately
started and are about starting on missions,
some to foreign countries and others to the
States.
	SUPT. COM. Schools, O. H. Riggs, reports
that he has recently visited, in that capacity,
the districts of Salt Lake County; fourteen dis-
tricts have schools now in regular session, in
which are enrolled 884 pupils; five other dis-
tricts will open their schools the first of No-
vember. He complains that the trustees of
more than half the districts have not sent in
their reports as required by law; the time for
sending in these reports was extended to the
30th of October; after that date no report could
be received, and such districts as are not re-
ported, forfeit their claims to any portion of
the public funds.
	THE MISSIONARIES who were called at the
last Conference to go to Europe, left this city
Tuesday morning, October 26th, for their fields
of labor. Among them of our acquaintance

[Column 2]
were H. G. Park for England, Martin Lenzi
for Switzerland, and Rulon S. Wells (son of
President D. H. Wells) who is to labor in Ger-
many. Mrs. S. P. Teasdel and her eldest
daughter accompanied the missionaries. Mrs.
Teasdel goes to visit her friends but more par-
ticularly for the benefit of her health which
has been declining for some time. The mis-
sionary party intend sailing from New York
for Liverpool on the Guion Steamer Dakota on
the third of November. We wish them pros-
perity them in their labors, and that each one
may fill the mission upon which he has started
honorably and satisfactorily, realizing the bless-
ings of health and the Holy Spirit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			RESTITUTION.

	The word restitution has dwelt upon my
mind of late until I felt impressed to say a
few words upon the subject, for it seems to
me that people are heedless and negligent
on this point, and do not look upon it as
seriously as they should. It seems to me
in speaking of re-baptism and renewal of
covenants, we should be careful to straight-
en up some of the old differences which ex-
ist between families and one another. How
many are there who from time to time go
to the table of the Lord's supper with feel-
ings of hatred towards one another, where-
as St. Paul says, "If ye have aught against
thy brother go first and make it right, lest
otherwise ye eat and drink unworthily."
	How often evil reports get circulated
where there is no foundation for them; and
they are circulated from one to another, and
cause trouble, unhappiness and bad feelings;
and how little is thought of the sin of injur-
ing another. Will not sincere and true re-
pentance seek to make reparation for wrong?
Debts left unpaid often cause bad feelings;
it makes us lose confidence in one another.
Going down into the waters of baptism will
not avail us much if we do not seek to
make right all our wrongs, but if we hon-
estly and candidly confess the wrongs we
have done to those who have been the suf-
ferers, then we can start afresh, believing
fully that God will be merciful to us.
	Dear Editor, do not think I am presuming
to teach, I only wish to present to your read-
ers a few ideas which have been upon my
mind, and I trust I have not offended any;
if you have a spare corner for it in your val-
uable paper, I trust you will believe me sin-
cere in my desire to use an influence for
good.
						ELIZABETH.


AIRY PEOPLE.

	Have you got in your neighborhood any
of those airy people that have the faculty
of making everybody uncomfortable where
they are? People that, when you enter
their presence, act as if an apology was due
them for your existence. They are to be
found in all classes, sometimes among the
poorest people we have, and I have often
thought it was wisely ordered that some
should be poor, for if they had been rich no
one else could have lived in their vicinity.
You may, perchance, some time in your life,
have had some of these "stuck up people,"
visit you, and if you did not feel like sing-
ing "Hallelujah" when they left, you are
not like me. Nothing is good enough for
them. You may wait upon them until your
weary limbs refuse to move, and they do
not thank yon; the honor of having them
for company is sufficient. If you chance to


have such a man or woman to help you, how
soon you find yourself thinking you are not
your own master. They very soon give
you to understand that they do as they
please and you must do as you can. I have
often met young women (not ladies), in the
street, covered with flash jewelry and cot-
ton lace, with their heads high, whose ap-
pearance seemed to say, "Give the road,"
and I generally turn out. I have seen min-
isters, physicians, lawyers, students of all
kinds, farmers, and everyday laborers, all
afflicted with this stuckupishness, and I
never can account for it in only one way.
The trouble is in the top of the head—a 
lack of brains. You never see any one with
a good stock of common sense, but can con-
form to anything and make themselves
agreeable anywhere, and I would recom-
mend every one that has an idea they are so
much better than anybody else, to try and
see if they cannot get a little more into
their heads.
						AMELIA.
	Cayuga, N. Y., Oct., 1875.


INTEGRITY OF CHARACTER.

	Young men should be deeply impressed
with the vast importance of cherishing
those principles, and of cultivating those
habits which will secure them the confi-
dence and esteem of the wise and the good.
	A young man may be unfortunate, he
may be poor and penniless, but if he possess
unbending integrity, and unwavering pur-
pose to do what is honest and just, he will
have friends and patrons, whatever may be
the embarrassments and exigencies into
which he is thrown. The young may thus
possess a capital of which none of the mis-
fortunes and calamities of life can deprive
them.
	We have known men who have suddenly
been reduced from affluence to penury by
some overwhelming misfortune, which they
could neither foresee nor prevent. To-day
they were prosperous, to-morrow, every
earthy prospect was blighted, and every-
thing in their future aspect of life was dark
and dismal. Their business was gone, their
prosperity gone, and they feel that all is
gone; but they have a rich treasure that
nothing can take away. They have integ-
rity of character, and this gives them in-
fluence, raises up friends, furnishes them
with pecuniary aid, with which to com-
mence life once more, under auspicious cir-
cumstances.
	We cannot too strongly impress upon our
young men the importance of abstaining
from everything which shocks their moral
sensibilities, wounds their conscience, and
has a tendency to weaken that nice sense
of honor and integrity so indispensable to a
good character. "Integrity of character!"
Who ever possessed it, that did not derive
untold advantage from it? It is better than
riches, it is of more value than "diamonds
and all precious stones;" and yet every man
may possess it. The poorest may have it,
and no power on earth can wrest it from
them. Young men, prize integrity of char-
acter above all earthly gifts.


THEN only can we pray with hope when
we have done our best. And though the
means cannot effect that which we desire,
yet God will have us use the likeliest means
on our part to effect it. In vain shall Mos-
es be upon the hill, if Joshua be not in the
valley. Prayer without means is a mock-
ery of God.—Bishop Hall, 1574.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
	IS WOMAN THE ONLY SEDUCER?

	"Pearl Parsons" made this pertinent in-
quiry in a late Journal and then went
on to answer it in the negative by
giving an experience of her own. I will
strengthen her story by relating one which
I know to be true.
	Some years ago a young lady, one of a
party of gentlemen and ladies journeying
for pleasure to the West, noticed on taking
a seat in a car at M., an elderly gentleman,
very respectable in appearance, who, seeing
her about to put a traveling bag into the
rack, which was a work of some difficulty,
offered to do it for her. She accepted with
a bow, receiving a hearty and polite one in
return. She then turned her attention to
the prospect from the window, and had quite
forgotten the gentleman until a seat beside
her was vacated upon arrival at a station,
when he took it and commenced a conversa-
tion in which she participated decorously,
being a very correct and dignified lady, not
much of a talker and reserved with stran-
gers. He knew she was one of a party com-
posed of respectable and educated people,
and took part in the conversation which of-
ten became general, and a certain something
which caused her to consider him in the
ministry.
	About dusk, before the lanterns were
lighted, he drew nearer, and, ere long, con-
ducted himself in a manner unbecoming
and utterly uncalled for. She quietly arose,
and coldly saying "allow me to pass,"
changed her seat. Never to this day has
she enlightened her companions as to why
she changed her seat, nor did they dream
how grossly she had been insulted.
	"Why did you not summon the conduc-
tor and have the scoundrel turned out of the
car?" I enquired, when she told me the
story.
	"I did not wish to spoil the pleasure of
my friends, nor to get into the paper in any
such disgusting way! I went to the plat-
form and stood there for a few moments as
if for a change. But my heart beat fast
and my temper raged dreadfully. I never
had such hard work to control it before nor
since, thank God. And he was—"
	Here she paused, hesitating and looking
at me searchingly.
	"Go on, never fear I'll speak his name if
you are unwilling to have me," I said.
	"Three or four weeks after, in my native
State, I attended a Convention, commera-
tive of an important event; several excel-
lent speeches had been made, when the ora-
tor of the occasion took the stand, and in 
him I beheld the miscreant who had made
my journey from M. so shameful a remem-
brance." 
	"He'd have caught it then had I been in 
your place," I interrupted.
	"He did, and he will never forget it. I 
moved my seat until I was very near and
directly in front of him. When he beheld
me he turned pale even to his lips, and
faltering, nearly fell. Then, "a sudden
faintness" was whispered about me. He
speedily recovered, and casting upon me an
appealing glance, he proceeded with his ad-
dress. Twice since, in public places, in ros-
trum or pulpit, in large cities—his own one
of them—I have brought him to his level.
Perhaps he has behaved differently since,
I doubt it, however. Sometime an expos-
ure will ensue. I don't believe I am the
only Nemesis on his track."
	After some urging she gave me his name.
As yet it is unknown to fame (of this kind
I mean).
	I think my friend did hardly right in
keeping the matter secret from her friends.

[column 2]
Had she exposed him he could not have
gathered laurels at the convention referred
to, nor have had other opportunities for per-
sonal aggrandizement, which have followed
him thus far. I heartily wish every wo-
man would, fearless of consequences, take
active immediate measures to tear off the
sheep's clothing from the backs of the
wolves that attack them. These remorse-
less creatures know full well how hard it is 
for a woman to come out before the world
and cry, "Behold the man!" But it should
be done. It is the only way to make sure
that sometime there may come a millenni-
um, when only the right man will be in the 
right place.				M. A. A.
—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE late Woman's Congress in Syracuse,
New York, was presided over by MISS
Maria Mitchell with dignity and tact.

	MRS. Lucas, John Bright's sister, is now
Grand Worthy Vice Templar for England.
Mrs. Margeret E. Parker fills the same posi-
tion in Scotland.

	MARY Kyle Dallas now occupies the posi-
tion formerly filled by Fanny Fern, and it is
said receives a salary of 7,500 dollars. This
is certainly not unfortunate genius.

	MISS Edmonia Lewis is a colored girl
who has become renowned as a sculptor; she
is at present in St. Paul Minnesota, and will
exhibit at that place some of her works of
art.

	MISS Josephine Jewell the daughter of
Postmaster General Jewell, was married
Wednesday evening Oct. 13th, to W. E.
Dodge of New York; the ceremony took
place in Hartford Conn., and was followed
by a most magnificent reception.

	MRS. Everet Green, an English lady, is
engaged upon a very extraordinary work
for a woman to undertake; it is a Calendar
of Domestic State Papers, and it is said the
first volume, which has already been pub-
lished, dates back to the year after the
death of Charles I, and relates to the pro-
ceedings of the Council of State.

	AN elaborate piece of worsted work exe-
cuted by Mrs. Keach, a very elderly lady,
has been recently exhibited at a fair in
New York State. The size of the work is
six feet long and four wide. She performed
it in eighteen months, working ten hours
each day. It contains 1,857,600 stitches and
has twenty figures of men women and
horses. The whole represents the death of
George Douglas on the battle field, after aid-
ing Mary Queen of Scotts to escape from
Lochleven Castle.

	MRS. Mary Gay Robinson of Brooklyn,
New York, has by determination, energy
and perseverence become a successful re-
porter for newpapers, dailies and weeklies.
She has had many difficulties to encounter,
but has struggled through. Meeting such
obstacles as the objections of friends, poor
pay and hard work. The Boston Woman's
Journal says this is one of the departments
of business for which women are eminently
qualified, and we heartily concur in the
opinion, but it will want courage, firmness,
and strength of character, to withstand
comment and criticism.


REMEMBRANCE is the only paradise out
of which we cannot be driven away. In-
deed our first parents were not to be de-
prived of it.—Richter.


SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.
	The election in Ohio, Nebraska and Iowa
took place Oct. 12......A terrible tornado
visited Milford Penn. Oct. 16, it lasted 30
minutes and destroyed houses, fences, trees
etc......A severe shock of earthquake was
felt in Calcutta also in Sylhet and in Eas-
tern Bengal Sept. 3rd......The Consul of Si-
beria reported to the London press the pro-
gress of their war with the barbarous tribes;
there were five engagements in which the
Siberians were victorious......There were
heavy gales on the coasts of Great Britain
on the 14th of Oct., several coasters wreck-
ed and a number of lives lost......The Ala-
bama Constitutional Convention has decided
to provide separate schools for children of
African descent......Bridesbury U. S. Arse-
nal near Philadelphia was recently blown to
atoms, two persons were killed and several
severely injured......A communication has
been made to the secretary of the Treasury,
of gold in Alaska, in paying quantities......
Prof. Baird of Washington, has presented
the Fish department in Canada with 100,000
eggs of the California salmon......Great
Britain is credited with having more steam
vessels and tonnage than all the rest of the
world......Mr. John W. F. Hobbs a million-
aire of Northhampton Mass. started in life
by running a line of omnibuses which he
borrowed the money to buy; he drove one
of them himself. Recently he gave $10,000
to build a school-house.
			FOREIGN.
	The British negotiations with China are
making favorable progress; Minister Wade
obtained the guarantees which he consider-
ed necessary from the Chinese Government
......The Kaiserhof (hotel) in Berlin, said to
be the finest structure of the kind in Ger-
many was burned recently......Disastrous
inundations caused by recent rains are re-
ported to have occurred in Leicestershire
and Warwickshire, some lives were lost, rail-
roads damaged and heavy destruction of
property......Assurances from the Atlantic
coast are that peace is firmly established in
Bolivia......The French Ultramontanes are
trying to accomplish the building of a rail-
way from Jaffa to Jerusalem, and are mak-
ing up capital by issuing shares.


OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
			["Augusta Grant" is signed in cursive here]
	Your "Protest" which appeared in the 
last EXPONENT is, to say the least, amus-
ing.
	I do not profess to be a reader of character,
but still, I consider myself safe in making
the following statements. You did not 
mean all that you said. You thought you
did, for at the moment of writing you felt
just as you wrote. You often feel like that
and give vent to similar sentiments, but
after all you do not mean it.
	You "detest the men!" No father was
ever blest with a more obedient and loving
daughter, no brother ever knew a more
obliging and affectionate sister than you are.
In conversation, both with your own and the 
opposite sex, you are vivacious and enter-
taining. You should avoid sarcasm, to cul-
tivate it would not improve your charming
proclivities. You wish to please and you
do it. And when you marry—which will
be at no very distant day—you will make a 
most admirable wife.
	You do not believe that all the men are
"conceited" and full of "vanity." You
know of those whom you consider noble and


gifted; and no woman has a higher appre-
ciation of true manly worth than you have;
none entertain more exalted ideas of what
men should be.
	You are one of the glorious girls with
which—thanks to our judicious and faithful
mothers—our communities are being filled;
one of the pure souled, high minded, noble
hearted, and clear headed.
	You have plenty of admirers, but so far,
none of them have been so fortunate as to
discover the magic key to your heart.
Sometimes, in hours of quiet meditation,
you would give almost anything if some
one would come along of the right sort, upon
whom you might bestow your heart's best
treasures; for really they are becoming bur-
densome to you, you have carried them so
long alone.
	A great world of warm, emotional feel-
ings pent up in one little heart! The very
idea is enough to awaken the sympathies of
a colder nature than mine. Do not, how-
ever, presume that, heedless of your kindly
warning, I have a notion to submit myself
to your tender mercies, by troubling you
for a pair of mittens. Not this time.
		Respectfully,
							HAL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OLD AGE AND GREAT WORK

	Those men who have written on the
achievements of their fellow-men have
dwelt with most interest on the work of
the young. Alexander and Napoleon are
constantly adduced as examples of the pro-
digious power of youth for execution. In
literature we are told that Byron died a 
youth; so of Chatterton and Kirke White,
and many others of their class. Indeed,
every department of achievement is exam-
ined with great care, and the result of all
is, as many teach us, that the young do the
great work of the world. We must infer,
therefore, that after a man has reached a 
certain age—say sixty—he might as well
lay aside his implements of labor, and step 
aside, for the young gentry to carry on the
great enterprises of life. An admirable
procedure this! Away with such an absurd-
ity! When a man has reached his three
score he is ready, if he has been just to his
mind and body, to do the most magnificent
work of his whole life. Of course, he can-
not do this if he has wrenched his voice to
pieces by the time he was thirty, or addled
his brain by stimulants and late night work,
or by any irregularity in life and labor. It
is not difficult to find among living men
most excellent examples of the union of
old age and brilliant achievements. As
Americans we are habitually reminded that
our great men die young. But we have
abundant proofs to the contrary. Our own
poet Bryant is an aged man, and the great-
est literary triumph of his life is his latest
book, the translation of the Iliad. He has
been working ever since he was a freshman
at college, and his editorials in the Evening
Post would make a small library in them-
selves. And instead of his being an excep-
tion to the law of longevity and labor, we 
claim that he illustrated what would be the
rule if we only remained true to the re-
quirements of mind and body. Who is
more sprightly than Bancroft, now nearly
eighty, and yet who among us has done
more steady service for fifty years?—Chris-
tian Advocate.


Perfect valor is to do unwitnessed what
we should be capable of performing before
the whole world.


A TRUTHFUL SKETCH.

	Let a man fail in business, what an effect
it has on his former creditors! Men who
have taken him by the arm, laughed and
chatted with him by the hour, shrug their
shoulders and pass on with a cold "How do
you do?"
	Every trifle of a bill is hunted up and
presented that would not have seen the
light for months to come, but for the mis-
fortunes of the debtor. If it is paid, well
and good; if not, the scowl of the sheriff,
perhaps, meets him at the corner. A man
that has never failed knows but little of hu-
man nature.
	In prosperity he sails along gently, waft-
ed by favoring smiles and kind words from
everybody. He prides himself on his name
and spotless character, and makes his boast
that he has not an enemy in the world.
Alas! the change. He looks at the world in
a different light when reverses come upon
him. He reads suspicion on every brow.
He hardly knows how to move or to do this
things or the other; there are spies about
him, a writ is ready for his back. To know
what kind of stuff the world is made of a
person must be unfortunate, and stop pay-
ing once in his lifetime. If he has kind
friends then they are made manifest. A
failure is a moral seive, it brings out the
wheat and shows the chaff. A man thus
learns that words and pretended good will
are not and do not constitute real friend-
ship.


For the EXPONENT.
		TRIFLES AND DUTIES.

	The burden of the cry from many a con-
scientious heart, tender, loving and gentle;
these little things, trifles so insignificant in
themselves that they cannot be told, scarcely
defined in one's own mind, yet they fret,
wear, worry and irritate poor weak mortals
almost beyond endurance.
	After all are they really trifles? there are
very few things in this life that do not have
a significance, or carry with them a conse-
quence. If they are of no particular im-
portance to another, perhaps they may be to
the individual life which is encountering
them. These little trifles make up the sum
of human existence, which effect for good
or evil the life of the individual, the asso-
ciations, the influence, the tone and the
bearing of the sphere in which they move.
There is a great deal said about duty and its
results, is it not closely interwoven with
trifles? Persons are too apt to think it is
mighty efforts, and tremendous means that
move the world, but the trifles which seem
so small and not worth heeding, have much
more bearing upon life, character and fu-
ture existence here and hereafter, than one
is apt to imagine. If one is careful to do
their duty conscientiously in trifles (as they
are called) they will almost invariably form
correct habits of living and so systematize
their conduct and affairs that the result will
be a well-regulated life, household or family.
How often is it remarked I have a little
cold, it is only a trifle, and yet that trifle
may end in death; or I have over-fatigued
myself, or heated my blood, it is nothing, a
mere trifle, yet how often attended by the
most serious consequences. It would be
well, for the young especially, and for all
indeed to look upon every duty however
trivial it may seem, as constituting an im-
portant part of the great whole that makes
up the business and enjoyment of life. A
kind word, a smile, or a tear of sympathy,
all these are very little things but how wel-


come to the receiver. If one could realize
the vast amount of happiness which might
be conferred gratuitously in the associations
of every-day life, the world would be a much
more desirable place to live in.
							B. B.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Graham Soda Biscuit.—One quart of graham
flour, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two-
thirds of a teacupful of molasses; mix with milk
and water.
	Rye and Indian Drop Cakes.—One pint of In-
dian meal, one half-pint of rye meal, two eggs, two
spoonfuls of molasses, a little salt; work it with
cold milk so as to drop from a spoon into hot fat;
be sure to have a smooth batter.
	Ginger Snaps.—One-quarter of a pound of su-
gar; one quarter of a pound of butter, the same
of lard; beat them well together; one pint of mo-
lasses, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoon-
ful of soda dissolved in a wine glass of milk, flour
sufficient to roll them thin, and bake quick.
	In using porcelain kettles, when fruit etc., sticks
to the bottom, put in warm ashes, and cover with
cold water; let it remain a few minutes, pour off,
and wash; if not clean the first time, soak again,
and longer.
	Paste which will keep unchanged in warm or
damp weather may be made in the following man-
ner: Put a tea-spoonful of powdered alum in two
quarts of water; and let it boil. Mix a pint of
flour smoothly into a pint of cold water, and stir
it into the boiling alum water, continuing the boil-
ing and stirring until the flour is cooked and the
whole is clear, like starch. Add to this about
half a tea-spoonful of essential oil of cloves or
cinnamon, strain through a wire gauze or perfora-
ted tin strainer, and bottle in wide-mouthed jars,
which should be corked to keep out dust.
	Graham Crackers.—Have some soft water,
either cold or tepid, in a mixing dish, and sift nice
meal slowly through the fingers into the water,
stirring until too stiff to manage with a spoon;
then mould the dough on a board with the hands
until it is about as stiff as for common biscuit. Roll
it with a rolling pin about three fourths of an
inch thick, and cut with a round cookie cutter and
lay on a baking tin, not greased but dusted with
flour, so the cakes will not touch each other. Bake
about 30 minutes in a pretty hot oven, making
them sharp and crusty or tender as preferred.
Take them from the oven in a pan or bowl and lay
a napkin over them to steam awhile, then lay
them in neat little piles on plates for the table.
They are excellent and more popular now than
any other form of bread.
	Canning Fruit.—The fruit should be perfectly
fresh, and the sooner it is canned after it is taken
from the tree or vine, the better. If a small quan-
tity, say half a dozen quarts, is cooked at one time,
the color of the fruit and the uniformity of the
cooking will be better than if a larger quantity is
attempted. There is no necessity of using an ounce
of sugar in a gross of cans. The fruit will keep
just as well without it and be far more grateful to
a healthy appetite. Glass cans with glass tops, a
rubber band and a screw-ring give best satisfaction,
as they can be sealed and unsealed in a moment's
time. As for the process, when the fruit is done,
pour it scalding hot into the cans, let them remain
untouched fifteen or twenty minutes, till the fruit
settles, then fill them full again and seal up. If
the can is placed on a very wet cloth it will not
break when the scalding fruit is put in it. Turn
the cans, after screwing them up tightly, bottom
side up, and if no syrup leaks out, no air can get
in. When cold set them away in a dark, cool clo-
set.


INDIA has 750,000 acres devoted to the
cultivation of opium.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	 About Sleep.—The sleep of perfect health is
dreamless—a kind of sleep not procured by lauda-
num, chloral, or any other drug. Do healthy
work enough to weary you, and you will sleep a
healthy sleep. Strange as it seems, sleep is the
greatest need of man, next to air. He can live
on a very little food and drink, but any continuous
reduction of his hours of sleep, even in moderate
proportion; results in insanity or death. We have
said that this is strange; and is it not so—that the
greatest boon and the greatest need in life should
be absolute oblivion?—that to enjoy, indeed to en-
dure, two-thirds of life we must pass one-third, or
nearly that proportion of it, in a state of absolute
unconsciousness? For sleep to be perfectly re-
freshing should be dreamless.
	At this season of the year it is one of the most
important things to avoid taking cold; a little care
will often prevent a cold that will cause much suf-
fering. The Herald of Health says one of the
means to prevent a cold is a daily bath in a warm
room with much friction, but in no case to let the
body become chilled; use most friction over the
chest and throat, and snuff a little of the water in-
to the nostrils warmed to a comfortable tempera-
ture. Next after the bath take daily exercise in
the open air, but not too much exposing one's self
to the cold and the sun for a short time, but not to
exhaustion. People who are not very vigorous
should avoid over exertion, and keep the strength
up to the highest point. One preventive of cold
is to take plenty of sleep. One cause of cold is
eating too heartily after a hard day's work, when
there are not forces enough to digest the food and
keep up the circulation. A cold in its early sta-
ges may often be broken up by a hot foot bath,
with warmth to the body, especially a hot pack or
hot bath in the middle of the day. It is not ad-
visable to take a hot bath at night in such cases.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	FOR a young man to owe many men, is
an ill omen.
	A MAN'S word is worth just $1 in gold
when sent by cable.
	"WHY is dew like a falling star?" One
is mist in earth, and the other missed from
heaven.
	ISN'T it strange that while Nature clothes
the trees with thick foliage in the summer,
she makes them go bare in the winter.
	WHY should you be justified in picking
the pockets of a vender of engravings?
Because he has pict-ures.
	IT is hard to tell which will bring the
most pleasant expression into a woman's
face—to tell her that her baby is heavy or
her bread light.
	A WISCONSIN paper has this personal
item: "Those who know nice old Mr. Wil-
son of this place will regret to hear that he
was assaulted in a brutal manner last week,
but was not killed."
	THE newspapers state that a well known
banker of Paris has absconded, leaving a
deficit behind. Mrs. Partington thinks
that was very good of him to leave it, when
he might have got off clear with everything.
	AN Englishman was boasting to a Yan-
kee that they had a book in the British
Museum which was once owned by Cicero.
"Oh, that ain't nothin'," retorted the Yan-
kee; "in the museum in Bosting they've 
got the lead pencil that Noah used to check
off the animals that went into the ark."
	EVERYONE thinks his party has the ker-
nel, and others only the shell. Whereas


they are all apt to let the kernel alone, and
dispute about the shell, as if that were the
kernel.—Gossner.
	A WHIMSICAL comparison being made
between a clock and a woman, Charles Fox
observes that he thought the simile bad;
"for," said he, "a clock serves to point out
the hours, and a woman to make us forget
them.
	IN reply to a young writer who wished to
know "what magazine will give me the
highest position quickest," a contemporary
advises "a powder magazine, if you can
contribute a fiery article."
	"MADAME," said a gentleman to his wife
"let me tell you, facts are very stubborn
things." Quoth the lady: "What a fact
you must be!"
	A DOCTOR, attending a wit who was very
ill, apologized for being late one day saying
that he had to stop to see a man who had
fallen down a well. "Did he kick the buck-
et, doctor?" inquired the other. 
<tt’lmt- fnagazine="" 'will="" glvomo="" the="" highdstposltion="" quickest,”="" a="" contemporary="" 1="" adviscs'm="" povder="" magazine,="" -="" if="" you="" can-="" contribute="" fiery="" article.1="" 1,1j-di-i="" madai?="" s.tid="" gentleman="" to="" his'wife"="" “let="" me="" tpjl="" you.="" facts="" are="" very="" stubborn="" tlnns.’,<="" ,‘qaotii="" ,'thfh="" iatjy:="" “what="" a!,fact="" .'l.ii'="" v="" i="" ..ii="" ."="" a


[Column 1]
﻿F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will 
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 30[-], Salt Lake City.

NEW 
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S. P. TEASDEL'S.
Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels, Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduced Prices.  Boys' and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps. &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
S. P. TEASDEL.

MILLINERY.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Column 2]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &C.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker.
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for 
ONE YEAR.

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROPTON, Supt.

Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Style of 
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER AND EGGS.
F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
O[-]
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STR[--].

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1875.		No. 12.﻿


DON'T SCOLD.

	"If you would only speak pleasantly sometimes, mother
—but you never do!" These were the very words we
heard from the lips of a ten year old girl.

	O mother! dear mother! don't scold at me now!
		For I've done the best that I could!
	I was thinking this morning I'd try all day long,
		And see if I couldn't be good.
	There was work to be done, and my lessons to learn,
		And baby for some one to hold:
	And now that it's evening and everything wrong—
		Please mother, dear mother, don't scold!

	O mother! dear mother! don't scold at me now!
		Your harsh words so bitterly fall,
	How can I have patience to try to be good,
		When you never encourage at all?
	And where shall the spirit of patience be found,
		If a MOTHER be cruel and cold?
	And it is so cruel to be always cross—
		Please mother! dear mother! don't scold!

	O mother! dear mother! don't scold at me now!
		Speak tenderly once in a while;
	Twould bring so much sunshine and peace to our home
		If you could but practice a smile.
	Very soon all the children would imitate you,
		And your burdens be lighter ten fold,
	And father would be so much happier, too—
		Please mother, dear mother, don't scold!


[column 1]
						For the EXPONENT
		THE DRAMA OF LIFE.

	"All the world's a stage, and all the men
and women merely actors!"
	How wide the place of action, and how,
vast the number of actors!
	As we look beneath, around, above, what
a ceaseless shifting of scenes do we behold!
What different grades of talent and its ad-
vancement appear before us!
	Casting our eyes upward, we see men and
women who by dint of patient labor and per-
severing courage have attained an honora-
ble fame, and well merited prosperity; and
as the play draws to a close, and they pre-
sent themselves in the last act, they feel
the proud consciousness of having enacted
their parts faithfully, and nobly; and that
the applause of an appreciative multitude
will certainly follow the dropping of the
curtain which hides them forever from its
view. 
	Below these we see many others in the
prime of life and vigor, ambitious of suc-
cess, pushing onward toward the eminence
that towers above; and which they are de-
termined to reach before the end of the
great drama, when they too, will be call-
ed upon to make their final bow.
	On each side of the place where we stand
we may see a still greater number—young
actors like ourselves, hardly risen from
the ranks of the supernumeraries. These
have received the first part, and are on the
point of making their debut on the stage of
active life.
	And now is the time for serious and deep
reflection. What is this part that has been
cast to us? What is the character we are to
represent? And what remains for us to do
that we may perform our part creditably,
and thus insure promotion? For we, too,
are anxious, as were our predecessors to ap-
pear some day before the public in the role
of a star.
	We must commence at the bottom round
of the ladder; study diligently and compre-

[column 2]
hensively; note every detail; form a true
conception of what we study; keep our sen-
ses alive; watch and wait for the cue, and
then walk boldly out upon the stage and do
our best.
	If we play our small parts well, promo-
tion will surely follow; and if we persevere
and strive to excel, use noble means to reach
the summit of our ambition,keep a clear head
and an honest heart, success is certain. Op-
position should never appal us; treat rivals
with courtesy and charity. Never encour-
age doubts "they are traitors" and those who
utter them to discourage us are unworthy
of notice. Press on and we will rise above
them just as surely as the sun rises daily
above the eastern hills.
	Though in our time we may be compell-
ed to play many different characters, still,
every actor has his forte; and in determin-
ing what ours are, great judgment is neces-
sary, for on this point often depends the
happiness of a life.
	We must think deeply, and think for our-
selves. We are all endowed with talents of
different kinds, and are not fitted to fill the
same stations in life.
	To make the most of their gifts is a sol-
emn duty imposed on every one, and one for
which all will be held to answer at the last
day.
	In choosing our walks in life we should
"consider well, wherein kind nature meant
us to excel,” and having satisfied ourselves
as to this, let onward be our motto, and with
an unfaltering trust in God,and heedless of
the scorn of the cold and jealous world,
slowly but surely mount to the eminence
whereon lies the reward for virtuous indus-
try.
							THESPIS.
	Bingham Canyon, Oct. 31st, 1875.


A LETTER AND TRIBUTE OF
		          RESPECT.

	SPANISH FORK Nov. 7th, 1875.

DEAR EXPONENT:

	I have expected to see a report of our Re-
lief Society in your valuable paper before
this date, but as you have not yet received
it, I would say that the Relief Society and
Young Ladies Association are both doing
excellently well. The sisters old and young
are alive to the importance of their duties,
as mothers and daughters in Israel; more es-
pecially since the good time we had when
visited by Sister E. R. Snow and her asso-
ciates, while on their visit South last sum-
mer. We have been called upon to mourn
the loss of one of our most faithful members
and teacher in our Relief Society. Sister
Mary Banks, aged thirty-six years. She
leaves a husband and seven children to
mourn her loss; she has been a member in
the Spanish Fork choir twenty years. She
was a faithful Saint and a virtuous careful
wife and mother, a dutiful daughter a sister
dearly beloved. Her sudden death was
quite a shock to her many friends and rela-
tives.
	Yours in the Covenant,
				MARY FURGESON.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A NEW poem by Whittier, with illustra-
tions, has just been published in Boston. It
is entitled, "Mabel Martin," and is in his
most happy, touching and pathetic style. It
is warmly eulogized by many of the leading
papers. The illustrations are unusually ex-
pressive of the sentiments and incidents of
the poem.

	A NEW Bible translation is about to be
brought out in Hartford, by Miss Julia E.
Smith. She has alone translated the whole
work from the original. She has written it
out five times, twice from the Greek, twice
from the Hebrew and once from the Latin.
She says she has been careful to put the
same English word for the same Greek or
Hebrew word, instead of giving her own
sense of it. It will be remembered by our
readers, that this lady is one of the Smith
sisters of Connecticut, who suffered their
homestead to be taken for taxes, because
they were not allowed the privileges of
citizens, on account of sex.

	THE STEAMER "Pacific," which sailed
from Victoria and foundered on the evening
of the same day, has been reported by
Henry F. Jelly, supposed to have been the
only survivor of the wreck. He was picked
up by the American ship "Messenger,"
twenty miles south of Cape Flattery, where
the terrible scene of the wreck occurred.
His testimony is that there were two hundred
people on board. Mr. Jelly was in a very
feeble condition when found, having been
floating on the pilot house belonging to the
wrecked vessel from Thursday evening un-
til Saturday morning. He says the Pacific
collided with another vessel, but persons
experienced in navigation think she struck
upon a sunken rock. Steamers have been
sent to look for survivors of the wreck, and
some have been found.


CHEERFUL HOMES.

	Frugal wives, good housewives, always
look as neat at breakfast as circumstances
will permit. And the circumstances usually
"beyond her control," if any, are her hus-
band and her sons. The amount of litter,
of things lost, broken or misplaced, which
can be maintained by two or three, or six
or ten boys and men is something wonder-
ful; and the marvel is, not that here and
there a mother comes to the breakfast table
with a stitch dropped, or a string or ribbon
unadjusted, but that the wearied woman can
get there at all.
	If the wife is required to keep order, the
husband and sons should avoid the making
of disorder. If they want hot coffee—and
cold is disappointing—they must come
down in season to breakfast. And if a man
desires that his wife should look pleasantly
and speak pleasantly, he should find time to
permit her to speak, and speak himself to
her, between dinner one day and breakfast
the next. There are some men, and boys
too, for whom home has no attraction in the
evening. There are sons who seem to regard
the home as only a place to eat and sleep in.
The mother of such sons cannot be expected
to look cheerful at breakfast.—Phila. Led-
ger.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Assembly Rooms, Oct.
30th, 1875, was largely attended. The
sisters were spirited and earnest in their
remarks, many subjects of interest being
brought before the meeting. Miss E. R.
Snow informed the sisters that they would
have the opportunity of representing them-
selves at the Centennial next year. It was
to be a national affair, and not a religious
one, and every creditable specimen of
home-work from a collar to a carpet would
be accepted; she alluded to what Joseph
Smith had said concerning the great of the
earth coming to Zion to purchase the finest
fabrics, for they would be manufactured by
the Saints.
	Mrs. W. East gave a sort of farewell testi-
mony to the sisters, previous to going East
with her husband upon his mission; said
she had President Young's permission to
accompany him as a missionary. She had
promised the Lord if He would give her a
testimony of this Gospel and of plural mar-
riage she would bear a faithful testimony to
others. Her prayer was answered, and this
would be an opportunity to faithfully dis-
charge her obligation to her Heavenly
Father. Several other sisters spoke and
the diversity of spirits which actuate dif-
ferent persons was apparent; but the Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. I. Horne, manifested great
caution and wisdom, and all must have un-
derstood the Spirit of God was the prevail-
ing power.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 10th 1875.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Tenth Ward Retrenchment Associa-
tion is in a prosperous condition at present,
and the young ladies who attend take a
lively interest in the meetings although, I
am sorry to say, the average attendance is
small compared with the number of names
enrolled, but those who do attend are alive
to their duties and seem to have a deter-
mination to improve their minds. At our
little meetings we read essays and selections
from good books and papers; the EXPONENT
is a welcome visitor among us and many
spicy bits are read from it. We have a
Theological Class organized, composed of
the members of our Association, we meet
on Monday evenings and read chapters from
the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine
and Covenants; this class proves a great
benefit to the Association, for we can speak
upon, and quote from the chapters read. A
few weeks ago the girls prepared what we
called a "Re-union Supper;" it was arranged
in the meeting house, on two large tables
reaching from one end of the hall to the
other. Although flowers were scarce, the
tables were beautifully decorated with all
kinds of lovely fall flowers, which added
greatly to the enjoyment of the feast, thanks
to the committee on bouquets. Among the
invited guests were the bishop and his
counselors, the heads of the Relief Society,
and the Deacon's Quorum of young men.
After the supper was over, the gentlemen
of the Deacon's Quorum presented our As-
sociation with a handsomely bound Record
or Minute book; after which all enjoyed
themselves in the amusements of the dance,
which the young men had arranged to finish
up with. A good spirit prevailed.
	Very respectfully,
		MRS. M. J. PIERCE, Pres't.
				M. H. PAUL, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	My sisters, I am thankful that we have
the opportunity of addressing you through
the EXPONENT, for in no other way could
we so effectually reach so many hearts, and
extend so wide an influence by our words.
	We all have the opportunity given us of
speaking often to one another in our socie-
ties, but then we can only reach, compara-
tively, a few of the sisters of the great
household of faith. The time has come
now when woman can bear an active part
in assisting the kingdom of God. If union and a
concentration of effort can be effectual,
surely we shall prevail. The work which
has begun is not going to be arrested in its
progress; the Lord will mark out our path,
He will show us our work, He will guide
our efforts if we are careful to move in the
proper channel and strengthen, comfort and
build up each other. None need be afraid
of lack of opportunity to assist in this great
undertaking; every faculty bestowed upon
woman should be carefully cultivated and
guided to make it a practical benefit to its
possessor, but more especially to be used for
the universal good of renovating the human
family. When so much depends upon wo-
man, how careful each sister should be to
sustain each other; and herein lies one great
and essential item, for slander and backbit-
ing and all their consequences must be done
away with, ere peace and union can exist,
and perfect confidence be established in the
hearts of all who would combine together to
work in unison.
	Words will avail little if the heart is not
interested, we may say we will not do any
evil, but unless we watch as well as pray,
and keep the Holy Spirit in our hearts, we
are in continual danger of being overcome;
for Satan is always ready to suggest some-
thing, and many spirits and influences are
abroad in the world that are as catching as
disease, and therefore we need be continu-
ally watching our words, our thoughts, our
actions, lest we drink in from an impure
fountain, instead of the clear, living waters
of the Gospel of salvation. Be careful not
to partake of the spirit and influence of those
whose faith has become darkened; I know
that many say they are not afraid, they are
strongly fortified, nothing ever shakes their
faith; but the Saviour said, "Let him who
thinks he standeth take heed lest he fall.”
						EMILE.
	S. L. City, Nov. 10, 1875.


<rbe 13p,0g0,0d0ibushelsd="" t="" yu;k="" u6'gikr!?a,slsti9nibde="" vdji'iitn="" lg6,%0k:ancl="" fealizfed‘schetprdw="" o00.="" :="" "="" '="" f="" “ji'="" ,j.3'1"1="" 1="" tuiul="" cjuli.'="" r#="" 121="" ofinfe'd="" to1="" yarpw:="" 3="" ip.="" a="" a:u="" vq&s="" feupw’ghalljiyiirgjlnia.="" city="" recently="" learnt="" dpyn,="" wdqbo="" rebuilt="" at;a.ccfs;:of3j)ii="">		FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IT is proposed to widen London bridge at
a cost of £55,000.
	THE Lake Superior mines since 1856 have
yielded nearly 7,000,000 tons of iron.
	"DEAD letters" yield $4,000 perannum
to the post-office Department as wastepaper.
	THE London police have the names of
17,000 habitual criminals on the register.
	THE corn crop of Iowa is estimated for
this year to be 130,000,000 bushels.
	LOUISIANA's last orange crop amounted to
16,250,000, and realized a net profit of $810,
000.
	ODD Fellow's Hall, Virginia City, recently
burnt down, is to be rebuilt at a cost of $30,
000.
	THE public walks and gardens in Paris
cost the municipality about 22,000,000 francs
a year.


IT is estimated that the school population
of Texas is now 350,000. The average cost
of the schools per pupil is $1.56 a month.
	THE commissioner of the Pension Bureau
states that recent disclosures convince him
that the government pays annually from
three to four millions of dollars to fraudu-
lent claimants of pensions.
	THERE are 2,700 varieties of apples, know
by 1,800 names, 2,200 of pears, 200 of cher-
ries, 150 of plums, 300 of our native grapes,
50 of currants, 80 of raspberries, and 30 of
blackberries, according to a counting-up of 
somebody.
	AT  a court-martial, a young Irish officer,
when questioned whether he had not given
the lie to a certain person, replied, "No; I
only said that either he or the colonel had
told a lie, and that I was sure it wasn't the
colonel.
	COBLY University, which admits women
on equal terms with men, has graduated 5
presidents of colleges, 31 college professors,
9 members of Congress, 28 doctors of divin-
ity, and 16 doctors of law.


For the EXPONENT.
	PRAYER, WORKS, AND FAITH.

	It is not enough, dear girls, that we pray
at least three times a day upon our bended
knees, and almost constantly in our hearts.
If this alone would save us, we might all be
saved too easily. If this alone would exalt
us in the eternal world, the exaltation
would be of too little worth. It is indeed
one of the greatest blessings, that we may
apply to the Almighty for aid in all our du-
ties, and feel the sweet assurance that He
will hear and help us. But He will not
do for us what He has given us power to do
for ourselves. It would be utterly useless
for us to appeal to Him to give us clothes
and sustenance were we to sit idly down
while in good health and able to work for
our own livings. It would be equally ab-
surd for us to pray for the rest and the glory
which the faithful Saints are to receive,
unless we labor like them to do good and as-
sist in preparing the Kingdom in which we
hope to find inheritance. Unless we work
for salvation earnestly and continually, we
will be disappointed if we expect to gain it.
The prayer of faith ever availeth much; but
if we have failed in any particular to keep
the law of the Lord, it is impossible for us
to approach Him and ask favors at his hand,
in perfect faith. We know that He is ever
merciful, much more so than the tenderest
earthly parent; hence we venture to ask
for a continuance of His blessings, even
when we know we have not done His will
in all respects. But how much more faith
we might have if we kept all the command-
ments, and suffered not our hearts to be led
away from our truest and safest Friend at
any time. How much more confidence we
should have in asking, if we lived each day
and hour in a manner that would give us
implicit assurance that we were worthy to
receive the blessings we want.
	We must carefully and promptly attend
to our prayers, that the good Spirit may love
and abide with us; we must work diligently
and earnestly, that our faith may be pure
and that nothing may stand between us and
our God in the way of our receiving the
gifts and blessings that are for us. Thus may
we obtain salvation and an exaltation in the 
Celestial Kingdom.
						MAUD LILY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GLOOM OF AUTUMN.

	Hail ye sighing sons of sorrow,
		View with me the autumnal gloom;
	Learn from thence your fate to-morrow?
		Dead perhaps laid in the tomb.
	See all nature fading, dying,
		Silent all things seem to mourn:
	Life from vegetation flying,
		Brings to mind the mould'ring urn.
	
	Oft the autumn tempest rising
		Makes the lofty forest nod;
	Scenes of nature how surprising,
		Read in nature, natures God.
	See our sovereign sole Creator,
		Lives eternal in the sky,
	While we mortals yield to nature,
		Bloom awhile then fade and die.

	Nations die by dread Bellona,
		Through enraged tyrannic kings;
	Just like plants by pale Pamera,
		Fall to rise in future springs.
	Mournful scenes when vegetation,
		Dies by frost or worms devour;
	Doubly mournful when a nation,
		Dies by neighboring nations power,
	
	Death and war my mind depresses,
		Autumn shows me my decay,
	Calls to mind my past distresses,
		Warns me of my dying day.
	Autumn gives me melancholy,
		Strikes dejection through my soul;
	While I mourn my former folly,
		Waves of sorrow o'er me roll.
	
	Lo, I hear the air resounding,
		With expiring insects' cries;
	Ah; their moans to me how wounding,
		Emblem of my aged sires.
	Hollow winds about are roaring.
		Noisy waters round me rise,
	While I sit my fate deploring,
		Tears fast streaming from my eyes.

	What to me are autumn's treasures,
		Since I knew no earthly joy;
	Long I've lost all youthful pleasures,
		Time must youth and health destroy,
	Pleasure once I fondly courted,
		Shared each bliss that youth bestows,
	But to see where once I sported,
		Now embitters all my woes.

	Age and sorrow since have blasted
		Every youthful pleasing dream,
	Quivering age with youth contrasted,
		Oh! how short its glories seem.
	As the annual frosts are cropping
		Leaves and tendrils from the trees,
	So my friends are yearly dropping
		By old age and dire disease.
	
	Former friends, how oft I've sought them,
		Just to cheer my gloomy mind,
	But they're gone like leaves in autumn,
		Driven before the dreary wind.
	When a few more years are wasted,
		When a few more springs are o'er,
	When a few more griefs I've tasted,
		I shall bloom to fade no more.

	Fast my sun of life declining,
		Soon must set in endless night,
	But my hopes pure and refining,	
		Rest in future life and light.
	Cease this fearing, trembling, sighing,
		Death will break this sullen gloom;
	Soon my spirit fluttering, flying,
		Will be borne beyond the tomb.


AN ESSAY ON ORDER.

WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE TWENTIETH WARD
	BRANCH OF ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION.

	MY BELOVED SISTERS OF THE ASSOCIA-
TION:—I hope you will excuse the liberty I
take in giving you a few of my ideas con-
cerning the way in which the Saints of God
should conduct themselves in houses which
are set apart for the purpose of divine wor-
ship, and of giving and receiving instruc-
tions in the principles of eternal life and
and salvation.
	I am afraid that many of us do not realize
what great privileges we enjoy, or we would
surely seek more earnestly to understand
why we have obeyed the Gospel, why we


are gathered to the land of Zion, for what
purpose we attend meeting, or what object
we have in attending Sunday School. We
are taught that "Order is heaven's first law."
I would like to ask how many of us observe
that law when we enter a house of worship,
or any place where we come together to be
instructed in the ways of righteousness.
Instead of walking in as Saints of the Most
High should do, we come in with as much
pomp and authority as if we had everything
under our own control, and instead of sit-
ting still and listening to the Elder who is
preaching for our benefit, we talk of this or
that, like as not about our beaux, or about
some excursion we have been on, or what
Miss so and so wore at the last party. Thus
we pay little or no attention to the discourse,
which is the very height of ill manners, as
well as a source of great annoyance to the
speaker and those about us who desire to
hear him.
	If anything is likely to grieve the Spirit
of the Lord away from us, it is disorder
and confusion. I do not object to a friendly
shaking of hands, or a kindly greeting of
brethren and sisters, but such conduct as
described above is decidedly out of place in
a house of God.
	We may learn the greatest lessons from
God in His own works. See, for example,
how He has placed the heavenly bodies
in order, how the greater light is set to rule
the day and the lesser light to rule the
night, how the earth revolves around the
sun, the day is divided from the night, and
the seasons of the year roll round in perfect
order. And if we ever expect to dwell in
the presence of God we will have to observe
good order not only in His presence but in
all places and under all circumstances. But
if we at any time conduct ourselves in such
a manner as will grieve the Spirit of the
Lord from us, we will lose many of the
blessings which we would otherwise obtain.
And inasmuch as we have held up our
hands to sustain those in authority over us,
whether it be president or counselors, super-
intendent, bishops or teachers, let us treat
them with due respect, and observe good
order at all times when they are addressing
and instructing us. And if we are called
upon to perform any duty, let us do it will-
ingly, promptly and cheerfully, for our time
is too precious to be spent in trifling. Let
us, my sisters, pray God to bless our Presi-
dent, Sister Howard, with wisdom and 
knowledge that she may be the better able
to teach us things that are for our benefit.
Let us pray for each other and seek dili-
gently to become one in faith and works,
that we may be owned and blessed of God.
					M. A. LAWSON.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE FIRST female graduate of the Min-
nesota State University, is Miss Helen M.
Ely:
	ELIZABETH STUART Phelps has been
commended by the London Athenium as a 
poet.
	DR. ANNA Monroe, of Boston, is connect-
ed with the Lasell Seminary at Auburndale,
as lecturer on Physiology and Hygiene and
is also Supervisor of Health Matters.
	MRS. E. S. Tupper, the celebrated bee-
woman, who wrote the most famous book
upon the subject of bees, has 20,000 lbs of
honey to dispose of this year, the product
of her own bees.

[Column 2]
	FIVE YOUNG American ladies have lately
received "honor certificates," equivalent to
the degree "Associate in Arts," from two
of the examiners of the Oxford University,
England.
	THE STORY of Tilda in Scribner's Monthly
for September, written by Kate B. Foot,
has been spoken of by leading Journals and
papers as deserving the encomium it every
where receives.
	MRS. CORNELIA Loring of Boston, who
died recently, left $5,000 to the New Eng-
land Hospital for women and children, and
$2,000 to the Boston Aid Society.
	MISS FLORENCE Marryatt, otherwise Mrs.
Ross Church, editor of London Society, has
a daughter who is about to make her debut
upon the stage. The young lady's name is
Eva.
	MISS SUSAN Augusta Fenimore Cooper
daughter of the novelist of that name, has
opened an Orphanage near Cooperstown,
New York, and is devoting herself to the
home care and educational training of little,
homeless children of both sexes.
	MISS YOUNG the English High Church
noted novelist, whose writings have been
very highly approved and sought after, is
about to give a paper on "Woman's Work
in the Church," at Stoke on Trent, before
a Church Congress.
	MME. CHRISTINE Nilsson made a visit of
a few weeks to Lady Emily Peel, by invita-
tion, at the Villa Lammermoor, Geneva,
before she returned to England to com-
mence her provincial concert tour.
	MRS. HARRIET Lewis, it is said, receives
a regular salary from Mr. Bonner of the 
New York "Ledger," of $10,000 a year.
Her husband, Leon Lewis, gets the same
amount. Writers of fiction are in better
demand than writers of facts.
	THE PRINCESS Mercedes, the probable,
successor and heir to the throne of King
Alphonso, is said to be an artless, innocent
child, totally unconscious of the honors that
await her. She is fond of croquet and
seems to concentrate her mind more on the 
interest of the game than on the future
probability of mounting a throne.
	MISS ANNA Maria Schuman, was one of
that class of females who, in this age, are
designated strong-minded. She lived in
the Seventeenth century and was known as
the "Tenth Muse." It is said of her that
she would write equally well in ancient or
modern tongues. She was a scholar, a
writer, a linguist and an artist; could use
the brush, the chisel and the engraver's 
knife. She made the Hebrew language a
speciality. She was one of the practical
examples of the higher [---]ation of woman,
and her memory should survive forever as
an illustrious example of woman's educa-
tional success.


IMPUDENT QUESTIONS.—To ask an un-
married lady how old she is. To ask a law-
yer if he ever told a lie. To ask a doctor
how many persons he has killed. To ask a
minister whether he ever did anything very
wrong. To ask a merchant if he ever cheat-
ed a customer. To ask a young lady wheth-
er she would like a beau. To ask an editor
the name of any of his correspondents.


MANY favors which God gives us ravel
out for want of hemming; for though
prayer purchases blessings, giving praise
doth keep the quiet possession of them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		A CRITICISM.

	Even in this day of reform and attempted re-
generation, remarkable inconsistencies are man-
ifest in the lives and opinions of many intelli-
gent people. A practiced physician declares
against girls and women filling the positions of
school-teachers, dry-goods clerks and composi-
tors, because of the injurious effects likely to
follow their being too much on their feet. He
does not, perhaps, reflect that no reasonable ob-
jection can be made to a person sitting a good
portion of the time in occupying either of these
positions. He finds no fault, however, with a
woman standing all day over the wash-tub or
at the ironing-board. No, these are generally
considered as wholesome exercises. He does
not express any regret that his own wife and
daughters spend more than half the time on
their feet, over a heated stove, washing dishes
and keeping the house in order. Yet women of
experience will testify that there is nothing
more tedious and wearing than these never
ending in-door household drudgeries.
	A noted politician denounces the idea of wo-
man dabbling in politics" as something that
would "prove corrupting and degrading to
her." Yet in his own home, when he is pres-
ent, scarce an hour or a half hour passes in
which some unpleasantness does not occur.
He is constantly waging petty war-fares with
members of his own household, yet is a profess-
ed advocate for "peace and purity where wo-
man exists." The supposition might arise,
that he considers woman has no right to an ex-
istence on this earth at all.
	Men take, too, such positive stands. They
KNOW they are right! There cannot be a pos-
sibility of their having made a mistake in the
opinions they have adopted. Young men, not
yet out of their thirties if they have even en-
tered them, know more than their fathers or
grandfathers ever thought of in all their lives.
and as for the aged aunt or grandmother who
has been acquainted with the world and its do-
ings for more than nine tenths of a century—
pooh! her experience isn't worth a snap of the
fingers, no matter if her faculties are exceed-
ingly bright and unimpaired. Had she known
when young, what her children's children
know now, she might have been at least forty
years younger than she is to-day. The old sys-
tems were all fallacies, and the great wonder is
that grandfathers and grandmothers, and un-
cles and aunts ever lived to be parents, or to do
any other good in the world.
	O yes! young men of to-day are thankful
they are not like their fathers were, although
they are ready, most of them, to acknowledge
that their fathers were BETTER men than they
are. But those fathers were so easily humbug-
ged, and were really so straight-laced that they

[Column 2]
could not enjoy life as they might have done.
And so these sons consider it an improvement
on the old styles to go at loose ends, regardless
of the counsel and examples of men of experi-
ence and understanding; and—alas!—too often
are God Himself, His laws and doctrines left
out of the question, this self-knowledge be-
comes so self-sufficient.
	Were it the weak, shallow and narrow-mind
ed only, who fall into this error, the pity of
them would be much less. But following in
the same train, are found large hearted, gener-
ous and talented young men, sons of noble and
gifted sires, who—but for this lamentable self-
conceit—would be models of real excellence. It
seems hardly natural that this grievous mis-
take should be made by hard thinkers and pro-
found students, yet it is so. And could such
but once realize what a display of ignorance
they parade in other peoples' eyes, while show-
ing off their brilliant ideas to their own satis-
faction, they would be too much chagrined to
have any desire ever again to repeat the pro-
cess, and would surely begin at once to amend
their fault, or rather to rid themselves thereof.
Ah! they would be more chary of their treas-
ured gems of scholastic lore in the future.
	
	"Oh had some pow'r the gift ta gi us,
	To see ourselves as ithers see us
	It wad fra mony a blunder free us
		And foolish notion." 

	Never were the words "much learning hath
made them mad," more applicable to any class
of people than they are to certain individuals
of our day. O young men! better less learning
and more humility, less theory and more wis-
dom; better for yourselves and for the world if
you bring your souls to reverence God more and
your own superiority less.


THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS

	In what way can one become most success-
ful in this almost universal occupation? Who
shall tell us? There are seemingly as many
roads to take in this fascinating pursuit as there
are individual minds in existence. And is
there a profession, calling or object, which has
so many earnest votaries as this attractive en-
terprise?
	It is the monomania of all classes of socitey,
all ranks and ages. From the cradle to the
grave, as soon as the faculties of the child de-
velop, the mind reaches out after that particu-
lar object which suggests itself as productive
of happiness; and unconsciously one becomes
more or less absorbed according to the condi-
tion and organization of their nature and de-
velopment. All mankind are similarly acted
upon under this all-prevailing influence.
	The great Creator seems to have implanted in
man this instinct to search after happiness. Is
it a shadow or a phantom, eluding one at every
turn in life, and shifting and changing with
every crook and angle in the rugged and un-
certain pathway, bright and glowing in the
distance, but vanishing at the near approach of
the real? Is it an ideal pastime that can nev-
er be made subservient to the practical individ-
ual organization? Can one have any correct,
conception of an ideal that has not a real?
Must not every ideal of the imagination flow
from the existing real. Fancy conjures up pic-
tures in the mind, but all these pictures have
their realities in embodiment in some shape
or form. Fancy re-creates from the real; there-
fore an ideal happiness is only symbolical of
the real, true, genuine coin. We know it ex-
ists, but where or in what guise, and what
course to pursue to attain it is the grand ques-
tion. 
	There are so many different ideas in the world
concerning what really constitutes happiness,
that one is puzzled sometimes in the pursuit,
by not understanding exactly what they want
themselves. Happiness is conditional, and it
flourishes best, and produces the most practica-
ble results in connection with duty.
	Again the question may arise, what is duty?
One's own conscience, if they have preserved
it sacredly, will suggest intuitively wherein
duty lies; and such a conscience never misleads
or betrays; and having this testimony in one's
favor they are as happy in themselves as it is
possible to be. And yet many will tell you ex-
ternal circumstances are the promoters of hap-
piness: kind friends, and wealth, and health
and a clear sky, a sunshiny day, a moonlight
evening, and many other outward sources.
That these tend to elevate the spirits and bring
with them pleasurable enjoyments is perhaps
true, but there is no permanency in any or all
of them. A cloud may burst over the clearest
sky, or obscure the sun, or moon; misfortune
may take away wealth; one may be in perfect
health to-day and to-morrow sickness or death
may come. But if one does not depend upon
any of these accessories for happiness; only
their duty to God and His laws, one may have
comfort under all the varieties of circumstan-
ces, which make up the individual life.
	Happiness in my opinion, although still de-
pendent upon one's own actions, is not merely
a personal matter; it bears strong relations to
all mankind. If one possesses true inherent
intelligence they invariably reach forth to
grasp other minds, other lives, other interests;
and to associate them with theirs in harmony
and congeniality; consequently they increase
their burdens, and also their stores of happi-
ness, as well as enlarge their capacities for the
same.
	Happiness might be accounted the recom-
pense for work; if one labors to do good, al-
though their efforts may often fail or they may
be unappreciated even by those they most de-
sire to benefit, yet the result should always be
conducive to happiness because it increases
their knowledge of themselves, their own indi-
vidual nature becomes disciplined and their
courage strengthened. They can perchance dis-
cern wherein the failure was in part due to
themselves, and that may inspire them to
greater and more sublime efforts.
	Happiness certainly requires some firm basis,
some fundamental conditions, and yet the
criminal, the coward, the wretch, who preys
upon society, or the pockets of his fellow-men,
may have his own idea of the pursuit of hap-
piness, even though he has no right to it. But
perhaps their miserable instincts are satisfied,
and that constitutes what they in their incon-
sistency term happiness.
	But those who taste the sublime joy of duty
fulfilled, who allow their hearts to expand in
the truest benevolence and love for their fellow-
beings, who seek to ameliorate the condition of
others, must be upon the broadest road in the
pursuit of happiness.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE NEW and substantial iron front of the
Co-operative store is now being put up, and the
roof covered with metal.
	ELDER W. C. Staines, Agent for the perpetu-
al Emigration Fund, arrived in this city, from
New York, Friday evening Nov. 5th, in good
health and spirits, having concluded his labors
for the present season.
	MEETINGS IN the New Tabernacle have been
discontinued for the winter, and hereafter will
be held in each ward meeting house, and the


[Column 1] 
sacrament administered every Sunday after-
noon, at two o'clock.
	TELEGRAM FROM Mr. Mark Croxall announ-
ces that the Elders who were appointed to New
Zealand and Australia, arrived in San Francis-
co Nov. 5th. and sailed for their destination on
the 10th.
	MISS JEAN Clara Walters the favorite actress
has arrived in this city from Virginia City,
Nevada, being, on account of the fire, unable
to continue her engagement there. She has lost
all her wardrobe in the fire, which is the sec-
ond time she has had her wardrobe burned.
Wednesday, Nov. 17th, she will have a benefit,
in the Salt Lake Theatre.
	SOME MOST distinguished gentlemen have
visited Salt Lake recently. Baron Rothschild,
Prince Frederick of Wittgenstein and Count
Turenne; they stayed for a few days in this city
visiting the most attractive points of interest.
The Baron and Count went while here to Par-
leys Park to see the Ontario and other mining
property in that district.
	THOSE WHO are interested in the raising of
silk etc., will be pleased to hear of the success
of Mr. J. C. Walker, of Mill Creek. He has
raised, the past season, 40lbs. of dried cocoons,
and 2,500 silk worms, from 2,000 eggs. The
work was principally performed by children.
	THE LAST company of European emigrants
arrived in this city Nov. 3rd The company
consisted of 123 persons, mostly from Great
Britain. They have had a pleasant journey on
sea and on land, and not a death occurred
among them from the time of their leaving
home until they arrived in Salt Lake City.
	THIS CITY has appropriated considerable
means for the Virginia sufferers, Mayor Wells
and Council voting $500 from the city treasury.
Several citizens gave $100 apiece. The young
peoples "Wasatch Literary Assocation appro-
priated $35 from their society funds. The
Young Men's Debating Club, the Zeta Gamma,
gave $25. This speaks well for the benevolent
capacity of the members.
	A PROCLAMATION for a day of Thanksgiving
and prayer has been issued by his Excellency
Gov. W. Emery, in accordance with the recom-
mendation of his Excellency the President of
the United States. Thursday, Nov. 25th is the
day set apart and specified by the proclamation
as a day of public thanksgiving praise and
prayer, to be observed by the people as on such
occasions, by religious services in the respect-
ive places of worship.
	THE SECONND term of the academical year of
the University of Deseret commenced Thurs-
day Nov. 4th, the first term having closed on
Wednesday. The examination in political econ-
omy, trignometry, surveying and zoology re-
flected considerable credit upon the institution.
At the commencement of the new term, classes
were organized in intellectual philosophy, hu-
man phsiology, analytical geometry and En-
glish grammer. An evening class in English
grammar was organized in the University
building on Tuesday evening Nov. 8th.
	THE CLOSING exercises of the first term,
this year, of Miss M. E. Cook's Graded School
at the Social Hall took place Friday afternoon
Nov. 12th, Recitations, essays, select readings,
Dialogues, songs and music composed the pro-
gramme. All passed off successfully reflecting
much credit upon the worthy principal and as-
sistant teachers as well as the pupils. There
were a few visitors present. It would be en-
couraging to both pupils and teachers, if par-
ents manifested a deeper interest in these mat-
ters.

[Column2]
	IT IS with the most tender feelings of pro
found respect and esteem we record the death
of a beloved friend and sister in the Church,
we have known from our childhood, Mrs. Ur-
sula Haskell, who departed this life on the
19th of October 1875, in Paris, Idaho, Territory.
She was born in New Salem, Franklin Co.,
Mass., May 12 1799. Her parents were Consi-
der and Phebe Hastings, and descendants of
the Pilgrims. She was baptized into this churchMarch 1st 1842, and has ever been faithful and
true to her integrity as a Latter-day Saint.
She possessed all those lovable qualities of
mind and heart which invariably endear and
attract. In every circumstance of life wheth-
er in prosperity or adversity she was the true
genuine lady and Christain; no murmur at mis-
fortune was ever heard from her lips. She
passed away without sickness or pain only a
gradual weakening and failing of the whole
physical system. In the year 1860 her only
daughter died leaving nine children, the two
youngest twins only two years of age. She de-
voted her life to the bringing up of these child-
ren, who were just as dear to her as her own;
and they mourn for her loss as for that of a
mother. Deceased has many friends and rela-
tives in New England. We can safely say of
her as Henry Clay said of Madame Le Vert,
"She had a tongue that never spoke evil of any
one."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]				
	SPLINTERS

	PERSONAL.
	Oscar XI, king of Sweden, has written a 
book called Charles XII, as "King, Warrior
and Man"......Gen. Sheridan had a banquet
given him at the Palace Hotel San Francis-
co......Professor James C. Watson of the
Michigan University discovered a new
planet on the 18th of October......Ex-Sena-
tor Chandler of Michigan has been appointed
Secretary of the Interior and sworn in......
Prince Bismarck has been suffering from
rheumatism......The Prince of Wales has
reached Egypt on his tour......Ole Bull is
about to make a farewell tour of Europe......
Col. John B. Lewis, the author of "The
Harp of a Thousand Strings," died recently
in Franklin Co., Miss......Ralph Waldo Em-
erson has been lecturing recently in Chicago
...Prof Proctor has been giving a series of lec-
tures on astronomy in Boston commencing as
heretofore with the Transits of Venus......
Robert Dale Owen has recovered and recom-
menced his literary labors......Prof. Jenney
of the geologist expedition spent five months
in the Black Hills.
	GENERAL
	Reports say that building is going on rap-
idly in Virginia City, the people are recover-
ing their spirits......Postmaster General Jew
ell is said to be opposed to the total repeal
of the amendment of the Postal law on third
class mail matter......A severe gale on Lake
Michigan, recently caused several schooners
to be driven ashore and lost, no report of
loss of life......Baltimore proposes to cut a
tunnel six miles long for the purpose of let-
ting water into the city from Gunpowder
Creek, cost $20,000,000......It is said the
mules in the Pennsylvania coal mines,
hundreds of feet below the surface and
half a mile from the shaft have the epizooty,
though they have not been above ground
for months......Machinery Hall, one of the
Centennial buildings has been completed;
it covers twelve acres of ground......The
National Gold Bank and Trust Co., San
Francisco have gone into liquidation......
More than 20,000,000 postal cards were is-

[Column 2]
sued last month by the Post-office Depart-
ment at Washington D. C......At San Beni-
to, Cal., there has been a severe shock of
earthquake......Alsace and Loraine are to
have a central government established at
Berlin......McCloskey, Manning and Cullen
were present at a banquet given at Guild-
hall, Dublin on Thursday Nov. 11th......A
steamer has been sunk at the entrance of
the harbor of Boulogne, France......The ca-
ble companies of New York have agreed
upon seventy-five cents in gold per word.
	FOREIGN.
	Raffail Bro's., merchants of London, have
failed. Liabilities, $3,000,000......The Inter-
national Exhibition at Santiago, Chili, which
opened with a great deal of pomp and splen-
dor on the 16th of Sept. is said to have been
a great success......The French Ministry of
France, talk of introducing an income tax,
and extending it to private firms etc, and to
all persons and companies which make an in-
come above a certain amount......The river
Trent overflowed recently, causing destruct-
ive floods in Lincoln county England......
Liverpool papers state that there is likely to
be a new line of steamers between that port
and New York next year......Messrs. G. D.
Neroulsos & Co., merchants of London and
Manchester have failed; liabilities, $250,000
......Santa Domingo is tranquil in political
affairs, but the Republic is said to be bank-
rupt financially......A Byron Club is to be
formed in London, its object to commemor-
ate Byron's genuis and his heroism and
sympathy for Greece......Sixty-seven manu-
scripts of plays have been sent to Theodore
Michaelis, based on the American revolution.
Several leading dramatists have contributed.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Cook Beets.—The true way to cook a beat
is to bake not boil it. Thus treated, and sliced
either in vinegar or butter it is exceedingly pala-
table and nutritious. Boiling extracts the most
valuable part of this vegetable.

	Quick-baked Batter Pudding.—One pint of
milk, four tablespoonfuls flour, or better, two of
flour and two of corn starch, two eggs, juice of
lemon. Bake on a tin pie-plate in a hot oven
about 20 minutes.

	Hop Yeast.—Boil half a pint of hops in two
quarts of water till the strength is extracted. Rub
half a pint of flour smooth with cold water, strain
the tea and mix it in; let it cook slowly like mush
from five to ten minutes. Let it cool, and then add
a gill of yeast and two nicely mashed boiled po-
tatoes, and put in a stone jug or bottle to rise.
A tin coffee pot should be kept to boil hops in, as
the bitter taste is hard to remove from a kettle.

	Indian Breakfast or Tea Cake.—Those having
plenty of milk will find this cake excellent. It is
made as follows: Take a quart of skim milk—if
a little sour all the better—stir in fine meal to
make a thin batter. Add salt, and a little soda,
as per quantity of cake. Grease a deep tin, pour
in and bake an hour. Serve hot. This cake can
also be made of new milk with cream of tartar
and soda, and be better than the above.

	Tomato Vinegar.—Take one bushel of ripe to-
matoes, wash them in an open tub, and add one
quart of molasses that weighs eleven pounds to the
gallon, and thoroughly mix the whole together, in
this condition let the tub stand several days, not neg-
lecting to frequently stir the mixture in it. When
a decided vinegar odor is given off, the juice should
be strained from the pomace and put into casks,
and let stand until the process is completed. Vin-
egar thus made is equal to the best, and to succeed
in its manufacture only requires faithfully following
out these directions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<ju all="" its="" accumulation="" of="" work;="" next.comes="" maternity="" and="" itsincreasing="" anxiety="" r.e-;1="" sponsibility.="" yet="" she="" has="" capacity="" to="" enjoy="" endure="" even="" more,="" how="" many="" men="" would="" manifest="" similar="" courago?="" women,="" in="" addition="" housekeeping,="" the="" caro="" children="" husband,="" have="" found="" :="" time="" pursue,="" some="" extent,="" other="" cnit="" ploymonts,="" improve="" -="" cultivate="" "="" their="" own="" minds.="" ..="" it="" be="" a="" deplorable="" thing="" if="" who="" married="" were="" rearing="" families,-="" sottlcd="" down="" think="" this="" was="" end="" usefulness,="" that="" hereafter="" there="" only="" meals="" get,="" little="" wash'="" dress,="" sewing,="" knitting="" ,="" ‘="" rhinor="" dotails'of="" hbmolifo'to="" attbrided'to.="" inthe="" mean="" is="" keeping="" up="" with--the;(times,="" everything-now="" hoi="" recognizps,="" andamiliarizqst.h;poself="" with="" tbp(progress="" pf="" ,age,="" ;fhqw="" muqh="" beno-,r="" fitdoes="" wife="" derive="" fromjds="" knowledge?="" very="" little.="" occasionalfyhp!="" -may="" give="" her="" information="" jt="" putts="" .him,="" but="" ip.a="" general="" way="" jtlio="" wifo="" asks="" husband="" for="" he.="" replies="" jn,="" mbhpsyllabje..="" twhat="" remalhsto="" dono1="" tljen?’inform.="" ’="" one’sr="" self..-’="" i="" know="" numberless,="" instances,="" where,="" man="" a.="" girl="" fresh="" from="" scliobl="" society,="" or="" sphere="" where="" sh.o="" had="" bedri="" accustomed="" seopnd="" ildar="" ahd="" understand="" what="" existed="" world="" around="" her,="" arid="" he="" imtnediately="" shut="" out="" association="" except="" his="" own,’-and="" perhfips="" persdhal="" friends,’'="" and;if="" newspaper="" refid1="" 1="" nowand)="" then="" magaziho="" ib'="" look="" over,="" seemed="" thinkit="" could="" expected="" -him.="" topic="" hen="" sometimes="" .a="" theatre="" lecture="" it..was="" favor="" (oriisho.,="" oughtjtd="" consider="" ,so.)="" contented="" thp="" man,="" satisfied="" him,="" ;it="" jyquld.be="" a.lit-="" tle="" more="" commendable;="" unfortunately,="" husbant="" one="" whois="" dissatisfied="" don’t="" knpw="" what’s,="" matter;="" ,his="" f="" ceasqs="" tor="" compfinionable?.she="" old.ashr="" ioqcd="" bqr="" notions,="" cannpt="" talkjnter-="" estiiigly.as="" slip="" onco="" coujd,="" dres3="" bopsii’t="" pleo'="" not="" nice="" enough,="" hair="" arranged="" according="" taste,="" her1="" manners="" are="" less="" .polished,="" fact,="" be-="" hind="" times;="" hp="" can,="" perqeivo="" that,="" thinks="" at="" fault.="" sees="" ladies="" so="" soon="" per-="" haps,="" will="" inde-="" pendence,="" &o="" completely5="" fiwal-="" lowed="" husbands,="" that-'="" appeartbff="" better="" advantage="" than-ifis-'wife,-="" amlyet="" he'="" can="" not,-="" life="" bf="" understand-="" tbb="" reason.="" '="" -‘f="" y,%="" )="" women="" quicker="" percehtibn="" fnlhesq="" points="" distinction="" than="" iherif="" theyq="" readily="" ulsdern="" slight,="" -neglect,'or'wfi'rluopl="" affection,="" -and="" 'usually5="" begin="" to'grlevedb-'="" spond="" murmur;="" neither1="" ofntheso&wiiri="" ever="" raise="" 'tliom="" ostiihatibilji'1="" o'nbhnust-="" have'elprespeof'boforelliey'i="" can-inspire’it="" in'aho'thor.-="" -u.n.)="" jui-:;="" lias'gotlb="" by="" wlieh="" womptr="" inay="" sit,-idly="" willt-lot="" lpvef="" br="" bus-="" bandi="" th="" es="" too="" much="" .be="" tibhe,="" tlierp-="">[Column 1]
	For the EXPONENT.

	WOMAN'S WORK.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"Seek to be good, but aim not to be great;
	A woman's noblest station is retreat;
	Her fairest virtues fly from public sight,
	Domestic worth, that shuns too strong a light."
	The author of the above was a very great
man; a man of brilliant genius and exten-
sive knowledge; learned in science, and one
who held a distinguished name and rank;
but alas! he was exceedingly uninformed
in regard to women. One would judge
from his views here expressed, that woman
was incapable of having an opinion of her
own upon any subject.
	We who live in the Nineteenth century,
many of us, differ with this great poet,
writer and novelist, Lord, Member of Par-
liament, etc.; we hold other views on
the subject. I am very much afraid that
this author's style of woman would only be
a living specimen in very exceptional cases.
	There are thousands of women who never
have the opportunity of proving whether
they possess domestic worth; they have no
fireside to sit by, no table to preside over,
and no husband to provide them with the
shelter of a home.
	In marking out woman's course of con-
duct, he has failed to take a broad view of 
the matter; he was evidently thinking of
one woman only, and that one undoubtedly
his wife, or his servant; certainly she was
not his companion in literary work; etc., or
he would have formed a better conception
of womanly character.
	What did the great Creator bestow upon
woman such wonderful talents, gifts and
qualities for if not for use? Would He cre-
ate something for nothing? No; for He
has shown us clearly that all things are
created for a purpose, to fill a certain sphere
to perform a certain work, to complete a
plan which was marked out, and understood
by the great devisor.
	If woman cannot radiate beyond the do-
mestic circle, then thousands are created for
no purpose whatever.
 	But why philosophize like this? it is all a
sheer nonsense; women have not only a
work to do at home but abroad for all man-
kind. This work is more complicated than
that of man, for whereas men are only ex-
pected to fill one office or calling usually,
women are always expected, under all cir-
cumstances, to fill at least two, and perform
the real labor of a dozen. Man singles out
a profession, or a trade, he spends a speci-
fied amount of time in making himself ac-
quainted with his business; if he marries he
is just as competent to discharge the duties
of his profession; marriage does not interfere
with him in the least.
	How is it with woman? Vastly different,
I assure you. When she marries she takes
upon herself the cares of housekeeping and
all its accumulation of work; next comes
maternity and its increasing anxiety and re-
sponsibility. And yet she has capacity to
enjoy and endure even more, how many
men would manifest similar courage? Many
women, in addition to housekeeping, the
care of children and husband, have found
time to pursue, to some extent, other em-
ployments, and to improve and cultivate
their own minds.
	It would be a deplorable thing if women,
who married and were rearing families,
settled down to think this was the end of
their usefulness, that hereafter there were
only meals to get, little children to wash
and dress, sewing, knitting and all the

[Column 2]
minor details of home-life to be attended to.
In the mean time husband is keeping up
with the times, and everything new he
recognizes, and familiarizes himself with
the progress of the age. How much bene-
fit does the wife derive from his knowledge?
Very little. Occasionally he may give her
some information if it suits him, but in a
general way, if the wife asks her husband
for information he replies in monosyllables.
	What remains to be done then? inform
one's self. I know numberless instances
where a man has married a girl fresh from
school and society, or from some sphere
where she had been accustomed to see and
hear and understand what existed in the
world around her, and he has immediately
shut her out from all association except his
own, and perhaps some personal friends,
and if she had the newspaper to read and
now and then a magazine to look over,
seemed to think it all that could be expected
of him. If he took her sometimes to a
theatre or lecture it was a favor (or she
ought to consider it so.) If this contented
the man, or satisfied him, it would be a lit-
tle more commendable; but unfortunately
the husband is the one who is dissatisfied
and don't know what's the matter; his wife
ceases to be companionable, she is old fash-
ioned in her notions, she cannot talk inter-
estingly as she once could, her dress doesn't
please him, she is not nice enough, her hair
is not arranged according to his taste, her
manners are less polished, in fact, she is be-
hind the times; he can perceive that, but
thinks not he is at fault. He sees other
ladies who have not married so soon per-
haps, or who have not married so soon per-
haps, or who are not so completely swal-
lowed up in their husbands, that appear to
better advantage than his wife, and yet he
can not, for the life of him, understand what
is the reason.
	Women have quicker perception in these
nice points of distinction than men; they
readily discern slight, neglect, or want of
affection, and usually begin to grieve, de-
spond or murmur; neither of these will
ever raise them in their own estimation,
and one must have self-respect before they
can inspire it in another.
	The time has gone by when women may
sit idly down and wait for a lover or hus-
band. There is too much to be done, there
is no room for idlers; there is an essential
work that women can do; I do not believe
there are too many women in the world,
there is work for them all, if they will come
to the rescue; it is because so few are will-
ing to work, or understand what is expected
of them, that a few must do it all; but let
all be awakened to the wrongs that must
be righted, to the down-trodden and suffer-
ing ones, and the world will see that wo-
man's work is not simply to multiply and
replenish, but to renovate and restore; to
cultivate and develop the highest instincts
and aspirations, and to subdue and crush
out the evil tendencies of mortality.
	Let woman speak for herself, she has the
right of freedom of speech; let her voice
be raised against immorality and impurity;
let her thoughts and aspirations flow out in
the clear fountain of light; if she is herself
pure, her words will carry conviction with
them. God has not made woman in vain;
she has a place to fill, a work to do, and if
she seeks diligently unto the Lord He will
appoint her work. But women are too slow
in moving forward, afraid of criticisms, of
being called unwomanly, of being thought
masculine. What of it? If men are so
much superior to women, the nearer we
come up to the manly standard the higher
we elevate our sex.

[Column 3]
	Mothers, make yourselves companionable
to your boys; it is the best way to give
them exalted ideas and sentiments of wo-
men. Recently I heard a boy, in speaking
of women, declare he could not bear to see
a woman push herself forward, and place
herself in a position fit only for men. His
idea of a woman was to stay at home and
keep the house, etc. If she wanted to
study and improve her mind at home that
was all very well, but not to make a public
display of it.
	It may be well enough to have learning:
one never makes use of, but in my opinion
it is exactly similar to having clothes you
never wear, or a grand parlor you never
use. To keep one's mind bright and active
one must use their faculties; and a little
learning put to some practical use is far bet-
ter, in my opinion, than endless stores of
information left to moulder away in the
prison-house of the human mind. Gold
hoarded up may benefit posterity, but let
one be ever so learned and if they never
write, or talk, or teach, who is benefitted
by it? Who do they make happier or bet-
ter?
	Woman's work in this day and age is not
only an individual work, but a universal
work; a work for all her suffering sister-
hood; and it will want all the courage and
heroism it is possible to arouse in the rising
generation to stem the current of vice and
evil, and so purify the earth that the Mil-
lennium can be ushered in.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 9, 1875. 
[The following is written sideways on the right margin of column 1]
E.B. Wells


HOME CONVERSATIONAL TRAINING.

	There is no nation more fluent in conver-
sation than the American. The French are
more voluble, perhaps, their language per-
mitting greater rapidity of pronunciation
than the English. Our best conversational-
ists are not rapid talkers. One trouble with
us is, each one of us likes to do all the talk-
ing; therefore Americans are not good lis-
teners. But mere talking is not conversa-
tion. In almost all home circles there is 
much talking done during the day, but we
fear there are few who do not reserve their
most brilliant conversational powers for
other assemblages than the home group.
Many a father comes home tired; he has
worked hard and talked a great deal, told
amusing anecdotes and displayed much wit.
He has come home to rest. He takes up
his paper and is soon oblivious to everything
around him. Wife would like to tell him
many of the little harassing difficulties of 
the day, and would like to hear some of his
interesting experiences, but if he were a 
deaf mute he could not be more silent,
only an occasional grunt answering her
many attempts at conversation; and the
children, except the good-night kiss, and 
often not even that, are not noticed.
	Such a home, whether the abode of wealth
or otherwise, cannot be a healthy and hap-
py one. As a parallax, draw around the 
evening lamp of another home circle. The
father tells the anecdotes from the paper
per as he reads them; the mother laughs
her sweet, low laugh, and the children burst
into merry ha! ha's! To watch them as they 
ask questions and listen to the answers and
patient explanations, the wonderment, in-
terest and thought imprinted on their young
faces is a picture for an artist. This home
education is a heritage more valuable than
land or money; and one beautiful recom-
pense in life is that in making others happy
we bring happiness to ourselves.—Baltimore
American.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITERARY MARRIAGES.

	Literary people are more liable to matri-
monial difficulties than other classes be-
cause they so rapidly exhaust one another.
A literary man who is obliged by his profes-
sion to advance in knowledge will soon reach
a higher plane than that occupied on the
wedding day. It is possible that such an
instance may witness a separation of thought
and culture such as could never occur in the 
life of a farmer. Hence the wife of a lit-
terateur may become merely his housekeep-
er instead of his companion. By the same
rule we notice the impropriety of a woman
strictly literary in taste, marrying an illit-
erate man. We have a number of female
writers who have attained rank in the world
of letters, and are married to men whose
sole distinction is found in their wives. The
latter increase in mental culture, while their
husbands are engrossed with the cares of
business. They have but little social im-
portance except being the provider or oc-
casional escort. The woman finds that her
husband does not equal, and soon ceases to
be her real companion. Such a woman must
pursue a solitary path or find congenial so-
ciety elsewhere. Some years ago, Mrs. Sig-
ourney was a popular writer, but it was lit-
tle known that she was the wife of a mere
carpet dealer in Hartford. He was very
proud of her talents, but all that such a man
could do was to offer the tribute of his praise
to his more gifted wife and be contented to
assume the place of the weaker vessel.
	It has been questioned whether such
unions can be formed advantageously, but I
think experience is in the affirmative. A
united life of this character should be mu-
tually educational. Woman is generally a 
good scholar, while man from the affected
and assumed importance of the sex,often ob-
jects to receiving lessons from a wife. In
this he commits a great mistake. Another
error on the part of literary men (especially
the clergy) is the expectation of conjugal
praise for their performances. Clergymen
are generally ravenous for flattery, and as
long as a wife administers it her words are 
acceptable, but if she offers judicial cen-
sure, it is very unpalatable. A really sensi-
ble preacher, if he have a clear-headed wife,
will find her criticisms very useful. It is 
said by Scott, the commemtator, that he
read his sermons to his wife before deliver-
ing them in the pulpit, and found her sug-
gestions very valuable. Two working ed-
itors of this city are married to two very
clever writers, whose earnings are large.
The subject of literary marriages has been
handled admirably by Gilbert Hamilton, in
his volume of letters entitled "Intellectual
Life." Dr. Johnson's remark may be quo-
ted in the negative. "A man," says he
"is, as a general thing, better pleased with
a wife when she cooks a good dinner than
when she speaks Greek." It is to be re-
membered, however, that in Johnson's day
everybody did not, as at present, live in
boarding-houses.—Ex.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The Herald of Health furnishes the following
People who have warm friends are healthier and
happier than those who have none. A single real
friend is a treasure worth more than gold or prec-
ious stones. Money can buy many things good
and evil. All the wealth of the world could not
buy you a friend nor pay you for the loss of one.
"I have wanted only one thing to make me happy,"
Hazlitt writes, "but wanting that I have wanted
everything. And again: My heart shut up in a
prison-house of this clay, has never found, nor


will it ever find a heart to speak to." We are the
weakest of spendthrifts if we let one friend drop
off through inattention, or let one push away an-
other, or if we hold aloof from one for petty jeal-
ousy, or heedless slight or roughness. Would you
throw away a diamond because it pricked you?
One good friend is not to be weighed against all
the jewels of the earth.
	Preservation of the eyes is thus treated upon by
the Herald of Health. First take good care of the
health. The eyes are apt to suffer with the body
and become weak when it is weak; and in connec-
tion gives the following general rules: When writ-
ing, reading, drawing, sewing etc., always take
care that the room is comfortably cool and the feet
warm, that there is nothing tight about the neck,
that there is plenty of light without dazzling the
eyes, that the sun does not shine directly upon the
object one is at work upon, that the light does not
come from in front; it is best when it comes from
over the left shoulder, that the head is not very
much bent over the work; that the page is nearly
perpendicular to the line of sight; that is that the
eye is nearly opposite the middle of the page, for
an object held slanting is not seen so clearly. That
the page or other object is not less than fifteen in-
ches from the eye.
	In any case when the eyes have any defect,
avoid fine needle-work, drawing of fine maps and
all such fine work except for very short tasks, not
exceeding half an hour each, and that in the morn-
ing. Never study or write before breakfast by
candlelight. Do not lie down when reading. Nev-
er play tricks with the eyes, as squinting or rolling
them. The eyes are often troublesome when the
stomach is out of order. Avoid reading or sew-
ing by twilight or when debilitated by recent ill-
ess especially fever.


IS FRIENDSHIP DYING OUT?

	There is a common belief, which perhaps
is just, that there is not so much friendship
in the world as there used to be. Various
causes have been assigned for this—that
men are less heroic, more querulous, more
selfish, more domestic. In my opinion the
real cause is want of time. And it must be
remarked that to keep up friendship, it is
not sufficient to have spare time now and
then; but you require an amount of cer-
tain and continuous leisure.
	Observe under what conditions of life
friendship, has had the greatest sway; and
has been most prominently developed. There
are still great friendships among boys at
school and young men at college. There
have been great friendships in compara-
tively barbaric times, for barbarism always
insures a certain continuity of leisure,
there were instances of signal friendship.
	What we call civilization has, up to the
present time, made increasing demands up-
on each man's time. Should this civiliza-
tion ever be a prosperous and successful
thing, it will give an assured continuity of
leisure; and then you will see that friend-
ship will revive amongst men.
	As an illustration of what I mean, I have
no doubt that benevolent persons must in
general have a large capacity for friendship;
but the evils of the world are so great, that
their attention is absorbed in the endeavor
to mitigate those evils. Great writers of
fiction of the present day have described
satirically persons whose whole minds are
so devoted to benevolent projects that they
even forget family duties. The whole of 
that class of person would afford excellent
material for friendship if their affections


were once freed from the predominent de-
sire to benefit the world in general, where-
as now the lamentable aspect of the world
compels them to devote all their energies to
the removal of that particular evil which
happens to have most attracted their benev-
olent imaginations.
	“Then, again, the monstrous size of great
cities in our age tends to diminish the pos-
sibility of maintaining close friendship
	All I would contend is, that men and wo-
men have the same capacity for friendship,
the same delight in it, the same craving
for it, as heretofore; but that an imperfect
civilization has rendered the manifestation
and even the reality of friendship more dif-
ficult, principally as regards the want of cer-
tain and continuous leisure.—Chimney Cor-
ner.


PEN AND SCISSORS

	IT does not signify if a man is small, he
wants a great coat.
	WHAT'S in a name? D. Seaver drives a
St. Louis milk wagon.
	A POPULAR writer speaking of the ocean
telegraph, wonders whether the news trans-
mitted through the salt water will be fresh.
	NONE are so poor as those who, having
money yet through a miserly spirit, deprive
themselves of the use and benefit of it.
	"LATIN and Greek are all right," said a 
Delaware farmer as he halted his team, but
gimme a man who can plow around an apple
tree 'thout toughing the roots."
	A GENTLEMAN drove a sorrowful looking
horse into town, and stopping in front of an 
inn, he requested a small boy to hold him a 
moment. "Hold him!" exclaimed the boy;
"just lean him up against the post—that'll
hold him."
	A GOOD man made a pathetic address to 
a Sunday School in Zanesville, O., recently,
and in concluding he requested them to 
sing "Jordan," instead of "Jordan's Stormy
Banks." He was astonished to hear shout-
ed in one unbroken chorus:—"Jordan am a
hard road to trable."
	BE frugal, not mean; prudent, not subtle;
complaisant, not servile; and active in busi-
ness, but not its slave. There are also four
other habits which are essentially necessary
to the happy management of temporal con-
cerns; these are punctuality, accuracy, stead-
iness and dispatch.
	THE other day a ragged red-eye man
stopped a Detroiter on the street and asked:
"Say, mister, lend a feller a dollar, will you?"
"No, sir!" was the emphatic reply. "Why
won't you?" "Because I don't know you,"
replied the citizen. "Well, you wouldn't 
let me have it if you did, so hand her out,"
was the cool reply.


IT is estimated that the tunnel between
England and France can be completed for
$30,000,000.


THE decrease of the public debt during
September is $3,342,562; decrease since
June 30, 1875, $6,222,499. Bonds issued to
the Pacific Railroad Companies, interest
payable in lawful money; Principal out-
standing, $64,623,512; interest accrued and
not yet paid, 969,362; interest paid by
United States, $28,202,807; interest repaid
by transportation of mails, etc., $6,396,524;
balance of interest paid by United States,
$21,806,283.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


FLOWERS.

	IT is wise not to lose a friend to whom
you can do a kindness, or from whom you
can take one.
	GOD gives every bird its food, but does
not throw it into the nest.
	HE that speaks the truth will find him-
self in sufficiently dramatic situations.
	THE grand essential elements to happi-
ness are something to do, something to love,
and something to hope for.
	NO chastening for the present seemeth to
be joyous, but grievous; nevertheless after-
ward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of right-
eousness unto them which are exercised
thereby.—From the Bible.
	EVERY one must find out for himself the
key to the riddle of life. It is of no use to
have it told. Some do not hear, while
others misunderstand it.
	BETTER have God for your guardian than
the Bank of England for your possession.
You might spend the wealth of the Indies,
but the infinited richness of God you can
never exhaust.
	LET it not be imagined that the life of a
good Christian must necessarily be a life of
melancholy and gloominess; for he only re-
signs some pleasures to enjoy others infi-
nitely greater.—Pascal.
	WHEN we are least moved by heavenly
love, we sympathize least with human in-
firmities; so, also, when we are fullest of
heavenly love, we are most compassionate
to human misery, and best fitted to cope
with the troubles and infirmities that beset
us.
	"PEACE does not reign in outward things,
but within the soul. We may preserve it
in the midst of the bitterest pain, if our
will remain firm and submissive. Peace
in this life springs from acquiescence even
in disagreeable things, not in an exemption
from suffering.—Fenelon.
	IF a man or woman is fit for work God
appoints the field of labor and of action.
He does more; He points to the myriads of
down-trodden, suffering men and women
and says, in language plain to be under-
stood, by the whisperings of the spirit of
humanity and truth—"Work with me for
the redemption of these my children, these
the sheep of my fold, the lambs of my
flock;" and those who stoop and falter,
wasting time and energies to whine over
neglect or poverty, or the ridicule and snarls
of the world, give the sign of their own
littleness.
	Enjoy the present, whatever it may be,
and be not solicitous for the future; for if
you take your foot from the present stand-
ing, and thrust it forward to to-morrows
event, you are in a restless condition. It
is like refusing to quench your present
thirst by fearing you will want to drink the
next day. If to-morrow you should want,
your sorrow will come time enough, though
you do not hasten it. Let your trouble tar-
ry till its own day comes. Enjoy blessings
this day, if God sends them, and the evils
of it bear patiently and sweetly, for this
day is ours. We are dead to yesterday and
not yet born to to-morrow.—Jeremy Taylor


A YOUNG man recently died of consump-
tion at East Wilton, the disease having been
caused by the inhaling of the dust in the 
stone-crushing mill in that town. Several
young men have died in the same town,
from the same cause within the past few
years.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	MATILDA Jane (catching the pastor after
Sunday-school,) "Oh, sir, please, what would
you charge to christen my doll?"

	A LITTLE child said to her mother one
day, "Mother, I feel nervous."
	"Nervous!" said the mother, “What is
nervous?”
	“Why, it’s being in a hurry all over."

	A LITTLE boy in W— came in to his
mother one day, saying, “Mother, the boys
out there are swearing, and I would not
play with them, but came right into the
house!"
	"Swearing!" said the mother, who
thought her child was perhaps too young to
know what profaneness was. "What is
swearing, my child?"
	"Why, it is saying ‘God’ outside of their
prayers,” was the ready and original as 
well as just answer.


[Column 1]
	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods:, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY’S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

—NEW—
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S.P. TEASDEL'S.

Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels, Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for
Ladies at Reduced Prices. Boys’ and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the
wants of our patrons.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

MILLINERY.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
    Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Column 2]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers’ Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
ONE YEAR.

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S,
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the
WORKINGMEN’S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
	29 East Temple Street.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1875.   No. 13.


CORNEEL

CORNEEL, dear girl, this is thy day of days!
	From maidenhood's fair path thou step'st aside;
Henceforth in woman's higher, mightier ways
	Thy walk in life must be—thou art a bride.

In bringing wishes tender, true and kind,
	As friendship to such scenes should ever bring,
No superfluities how'er refined
	I'd offer, nor one vain, unlikely thing.

It is not vain to wish that fruits and flowers
	May crown thy lot instead of thorns and weeds.
That which we plant and cultivate is ours,
	Else life were vain, and all good thoughts and deeds.

May Faith's bright star illumine all thy path; 
	Love's sweetest bossoms 'round thy heart entwine,
And all the wealth that Truth and Virtue hath
	For their firm votaries, be forever thine.

May he to whom thou givest all in trust,
	Who proudly, fondly, claims thee for his own,
Prove only nobler, purer and more just
	Than thy warm hopes or dearest dreams have shown.

Many would deem this wish unworth the while,
	For 'tis proverbial, man never proves
As free from folly, selfishness and guile,
	As is believed by woman when she loves.

I will admit that cases must be rare
	In which he falls not short; yet one I've known—
But I'll not tell it here—'twould seem unfair
	To talk of loves to-day except thine own.

God bless thee! This time-honored, sacred phrase
	Can best express the interest that I feel
For thee, on this, thy brightest day of days.
	God keep thee ever blest, beloved CORNEEL.
										LULA
Salt Lake City, Nov 29th, 1875.


OBSERVATIONS.

	At the time of honest love-making is the
brightest, happpiest and best period in al-
most every man's life, very likely one rea-
son why GOOD Mormon men are the best
men in the world, is that in their lives,
there are so often recurrences of those inter-
esting occasions.
	Were I a man—which, indeed, I am
thankful I am not—I know, or think I
know some things I would not do, and some
things that I would do.
	To me it appears stingy or cowardly to
see a man enter a theatre or other place of
amusement and seat himself for an even-
ing's enjoyment without a companion. It
looks as though he was too selfish to spend a
dollar for some one elses enjoyment, or be-
ing single, too faint-hearted to ask a lady to
accompany him. Therefore, going to places
of amusement alone, is one thing I should
avoid.
	I would never seek fame as a politician.
For a man to allow his name to be published
as a candidate for office, is apparently, giv-
ing an invitation for every envious, jealous
person to say all the unkind and disagreea-
ble things about him that they can think of.
I should not like to be talked about as poli-
ticians of the day are.
	There are other things which I would
not be guilty of as a man. And among the
things I believe I would do, are the follow-
ing:
	I would convince myself that I could
work at some useful employment, and earn
means wherewith to support a family.
Then I would marry not one wife only, but
half a dozen or more of the dear, good girls


I know; provided they could see that I was
the right man for them.
	I would find time to speak pleasantly to
my wives and children, would encourage
them to improve in all good things instead
of making mere worldly drudges of them-
selves, and by my example, teach and help
them to be cheerful, grateful and happy.
	I would not expect nor want any member
of my family to stay home from meeting on
Sunday to provide for my comfort, but
would feel that all the rest should enjoy the
same privileges that I did.
	It should be the grand aim of my life to
be a medol husband, and father; and being
this, I should be all that God requires of
His servants I think.
					MAUD LILY.


For the EXPONENT.
		LIVE FOR SOMETHING.

	Thousands of women are born, breathe,
live, move and pass off the stage of life,and
are heard of no more; why? They did no
good to the world while in it, none were
blessed by them; none could point to them
as their benefactors, not a line they ever
wrote, not a word they spoke, not a good
deed they performed, could be recalled, and
so they perished from the memory of their
cotemporaries. What value is such a life?
Its possessor has suffered the golden days of
her probation to pass by unimproved, and
her light has gone out in darkness.
	My sisters, let not this be the case with
us, but let us seek to do good, and benefit
each other, and let us do all that ever lays
in our power to build up the church and
kingdom of God.
	My young sisters you have life before you,
do not squander it foolishly; make up your
minds while young to live for something,
understand that you have a mission given
you, and be determined to fill it worthily;
and always reccollect that you cannot be
truly great unless you are truly good; and
make it your constant study to do all the
good you can. You may be inexperienced
and not very widely known, but you can
extend the circle of your acquaintance and
influence by good deeds, and wherever you
go, you can carry an influence with you that
will inspire others with good resolves and
determinations to follow your example. Do
this, and you will write your names on the
hearts of your generation, in letters that
will never perish, and you will enter upon a
career of ever-increasing happiness and
glory.
				JANE E. VANTASSEL.
	First Ward.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN A Roman Catholic Church in Brooklyn,
very recently, 9,000 pennies were deposited
in the alms-box one Sunday.
	The CENTENNIAL Exhibition, at Phila-
delphia, will be opened May 10th, 1876.
and will remain open every day, Sundays
excepted, until November 10th. 
	DENMARK HAS made one grand step, in
social improvement and equalization of sex,


by special act of the Danish government.
The National University at Copenhagen is
open to women, upon the same conditions
as to men, with all lectures, examinations,
degrees and diplomas.
	BY THE death of the Vice President, the
duties of that office devolve upon Thomas
W. Ferry, Senator from Michigan, who was
elected president of the Senate in March
last.
	ASSOCIATE JUSTICE John Wells of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, died Nov.
23rd, at Salem, Mass. after a lingering ill-
ness. He was fifty-nine years of age.
	MOUNT HOLYOKE Seminary furnishes a
great number of wives for foreign mission-
aries. The training raceived at that insti-
tution must certainly be of a nature calcu-
lated to inspire heroism, fortitude and great
strength of character. All these requisites
being highly essential in those who would
make the sacrifice of home and friends, for
the sake of duty to their fellow creatures.
	VICE PRESIDENT Wilson died at half-past
eight, a. m., Nov. 22nd, after an illness of
about twelve days. He seemed much better
that morning, and expressed himself, so to
his friends and attendants; he died without
a struggle. Throughout New England there
is said to be every manifestation of sorrow.
Flags are at half mast in all the large cities,
and bells tolled in many of them.
	THE RENOWNED Mlle. Titiens was born
in Hamburg in 1834. Her parents were
natives of Hungary and were of the labor-
ing class. She is herself, at the present
time, immensely wealthy, and her mother
and sisters reside with her at St. John's
Wood, surrounded with all the elegancies
and luxuries wealth can procure. She is
said to be beneficient and hospitable.
	A SMALE volume called "Terpsichore" is
about to be published in Paris. The intro-
duction is by Mlle. Rita Langalli, the pre-
miere danseuse of the opera. She speaks
feelingly of the decadence of the grand
ballet, and says the cause is, the ballet is
now chiefly used as a divertissement to the
opera. She speaks of the deficiency of cos-
tume, at the present time, like this: "It is
not for nothing that the tulle of which our
skirts are made is called tulle-illusion. By
abandoning these skirts, and by substituting
for them flesh-colored drawers charm and
illusion are alike dispelled."


A LITTLE boy wanted to borrow his aunt's
dog for a moment, and asked her to let him
have a piece of string so that he could lead
him. "What are you going to do with
him?" said the good lady. The boy hesita-
ted for a moment, and then said, "Well,
you see a boy round the corner bet me his
dog was a larger dog than yours." "Well,"
said the aunt, "suppose it turns out that his
dog is the larger one?" "Then," said the
nephew, "you'll lose your dog."
	When that little boy becomes a grown up
man we predict that he will be a great bank-
er. He evidently understands the princi-
ple of modern banking—borrow somebody's
dog and bet it against something else.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Nov 13th, 1875, was presided over by Miss
E. R. Snow in the absence of President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. After the usual opening ex-
ercises and reading of minutes, Miss E. R.
Snow gave an interesting account of her
recent mission to Box Elder County, and of
the meetings she had held with the sisters
in the towns and settlements of that county.
She said there was a feeling of great inter-
est manifested among the sisters to engage
in every domestic pursuit which would tend
to promote HOME INDUSTRIES and cause us
to become self-sustaining as a people.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, gave a similar ac-
count of her mission to Sanpete County,
and of the meetings among the sisters and
the general good feeling prevailing in that
part of the Territory. Expressed herself
much gratified in associating with people
who desired to serve God and build up His
kingdom. Many young sisters arose and
spoke and were seemingly inspired with
earnestness and a desire to live lives of
usefulness.

	13th WARD, Nov. 22nd, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request, I endeavor to give you some
account of our Relief Society. We cannot
boast of numbers attending our meetings,
but of the faithful few, who are always on
hand and ready to assist in sustaining
HOME INDUSTRIES, or anything else that
will tend to the building up of the kingdom
of God. The manufacture of hats and bon-
nets from our own braided straw, under the
superintendence of Sister Rumell, is in a
flourishing condition—she has also on hand,
some excellent samples of ladies' felt hats,
made by Brother Shelmadine of the Eigth
Ward. The sisters generally are desirous
to patronize HOME MANUFACTURE, and to
become united in their efforts to this end.
Some slight changes with regard to the days
of meeting may be partly the cause of the
non-attendance of some. But as we are
about to renew our covenants by re-baptism
trust that we shall realize the necessity of
being prompt in our duties and more de-
voted to the cause we have espoused, that
we may eventually be numbered with the
wise virgins, with oil in our vessels and our
lamps trimmed and burning when our Lord
shall come. Our present officers are Mrs.
Rachel R. Grant President, who is ever
faithful in counsel, and ready to administer
to the wants of the poor and needy, assisted
by her faithful Counsellors Mrs. Bathsheba
W. Smith and Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. Eliz-
abeth H. Goddard Secretary, and Mrs. Eme-
line B. Wells Assistant Secretary and Presi-
dent of Teachers, Mrs. Relief Attwood
Treasurer, Mrs. Mary Musser having resign-
ed that office. Your valuable paper is read
with pleasure as well as profit by many of
the sisters. That it may continue to in-
crease in interest as well as other home pro-
ductions is the earnest prayer of,
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH H. GODDARD.

	SPANISH FORK, Nov. 10th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Sisters Snow, Howard, Barney, and Sister
Horne visited us last July, and held meet-
ings, giving some excellent instructions up-
on the duties of the sisters of the Relief
Society; showing the necessity of our be-
coming a self-sustaining people; encour-

[Column 2]
aged all to faithfulness in the kingdom of
God. The Relief Society having been or-
ganized in two branches, it was thought
best to organize them in one Society, which
was done, by electing Sister Mary Ferguson
President, Sisters Margaret Miller and Isa-
bel Rockwell Counselors, Alexandrine Snell
Secretary, and Caroline Pace Treasurer. Af-
ter the organization, Sister Snow spoke
very encouragingly, giving many instruc-
tions. We had a general time of rejoicing,
the spirit of God being abundantly mani-
fest upon the speakers and hearers, and we
have since felt our faith strengthened, and
a renewed determination to do all we can to
forward the work in which we feel so
much interest.
	Financially our Society is progressing,
and there seems to be a good spirit among
the people, and we earnestly pray that the
blessings of our Heavenly Father may rest
upon our efforts to do good. July 2nd, the
time of our uniting, the amount in the treas-
ury of both Societies, there was $263.80.
Received by donation $45.89; Profit on la-
bor $20.11; disbursed to assist the poor
$45.45; leaving a balance in the treasury of
$284.35.
	ALEXANDRINE SNELL, Sec't.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	As I sat musing on the subject of prayer
my thoughts were these; I wonder if the
Saviour's prayer had any reference to me
when He taught His disciples to pray, as
given by Matthew, sixth chapter, twelvth
verse: "Forgive us our debts as we forgive
our debtors;" it is continued in the four-
teenth and fifteenth verses. Again, can I
pray for our enemies thus: "Father, forgive
them for they know not what they do," as
given by St. Luke, twenty-third chapter
and thirty-fourth verse? And is it possible
that I can go and be reconciled to whom I
may have ought against? I wonder if I
can do by my neighbor as I wish her to do
by me, for that would lead me into the
UNITED ORDER. Especially I should love
my neighbor as myself. Here was a mo-
ment's pause. Then arises another reflec-
tion on the capacity of woman, and I ask
who am I? I wonder if man is the head of
the woman as Christ is the head of the
Church; and I wonder if Peter had any al-
lusion to us in this dispensation, as given
in his first Epistle, third chap., sixth verse,
showing forth the manner in which Sarah
acknowledged Abraham, and says: "Whose
daughters ye are as long as ye do well, &c;"
then teaches the husband how to treat the
wife that their prayers be not hindered. I
thought how I should love to be an heiress
of that ancient worthy, and if so I must do
as she did, and acknowledge Plural Mar-
riage and be submissive as she was. I ask
myself, do I, through omission, have need
of re-baptism and a newness of life? Am I
trying to the best of my ability to help to
rear and care for a little kingdom? and al-
though weak in the flesh, do I with forti-
tude endure trials, which are but a bubble
in comparison to eternal life? Finally, is
my course onward in the faith once delivered
to the saints?
	To reduce all its precepts to practice is
my desire truly.
							M. A. B.
	Oxford, Nov. 15th, 1875.


A teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved in
a quart of tepid water, is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere or alpaca.


GRANTSVILLE, Nov. 15th, 1875.

DEAR EXPONENT :

	I am disgusted with the maudlin senti-
ments expressed by the generality of writ-
ers upon the rights and wrongs of women,
Mormon women especially.
	If the women of Utah were as much
abused as thousands upon thousands of wo-
men outside of Mormonism, we would rise
enmasse and take vengeance in our own
hands, and punish the men as they deserve.
	Some of the Journals affect to pity the
down-trodden women of Utah, pretending
to believe we dare not speak for ourselves.
Others that we are too ignorant to be able
to do so. Others again, that we are the
off-scouring of the various nations from
which we have been gathered.
	In answer to the first supposition, is it to
be believed that the women who have shown
faith in their religion, such true heroism of
character, and the fortitude to cross the vast
plains when there was no Railroad to fetch
them, but had to trust in the Almighty and
their husbands and brethren for their safety,
are of a nature to succumb to injustice?
Many of those women had to walk the
most of that thousand miles, and did it
without complaining. Women that would
do this would dare to do anything that they
knew to be right; there was very little sen-
timent in that journey, it was stern, hard
reality as the writer knows. It would take
all soft nonsense out of any woman, and
very likely make a Helen McGregor of her.
	Secondly, that we are too ignorant. By
this assertion I suppose they would have it
believed that the majority neither read nor
write, in fact know nothing, Webster's defi-
nition of ignorance being a want of knowl-
edge, illiteracy. This I boldy deny. The
women of Utah taken as a whole, will sur-
pass, in useful knowledge, the same num-
ber of women in any State or Territory in
the Union.
	The third accusation—that we are the off-
scouring of the various nations from which
we have been gathered. If this is true
those nations are in splendid condition,
for purer women do not exist on the face of
the whole earth. Mormon women don't
employ monsters like Fortmeyer and Davis,
shame on a community that dare not hang
such wretches, but let them escape, to run
at large to continue their fiendish work.
Talk about Mormon depravity, when you
cannot punish the worst of criminals, when
you have depraved women by tens of thou-
sands, and physicians, men and women,
employed in the most wicked practices,
you dare not punish lest respectable people
should be exposed.
	Bah! I am sick of such twaddle. If you
would learn the Mormon creed. "Mind your
own business," it would improve you
vastly.
							MARY.


To Iron Velvet Ribbon.—Dampen the under
side slightly and draw it back and forth over a hot
stovepipe until the velvet is quite dry. A still
better plan—though in winter not always conveni-
ent—is to lay a wet piece of cotton cloth on a hot
flat-iron placed upside down, and while the steam
is rising from it draw the underside of the velvet
lightly backward and forward over the wet cloth.
	To prevent the smoking of a lamp, soak the
wick in strong vinegar, and dry well before you use
it; it will then burn both sweet and pleasant, and
give much satisfaction for the trifling trouble of
preparing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FINALLY NIGHT COMES, BLESSED
			NIGHT.

When the little feet cease their patter, the tongue
		their clatter.
	Hands and eyes so softly close,
Instead of riot, all is quiet
	The dear ones sink in sweet repose.

And then poor "Query" feels so weary,
	Mind and body, both are tired,
So gathers flowers, from other powers
	And sips the honey so much required.

Oh! gift of Heaven, to mortals given
	The gift to read and understand;
Oh! greater gift, the power to sift
	The truth from error at command.

Oh! blessed treasure, the power at pleasure
	Our thoughts and ideas to portray,
Be mine to power these gems to gather
	To beautify my life each day.

Taylorsville Nov.14th 1875.
							QUERY.


For the EXPONENT.
		HINTS TO MOTHERS.

	It is a dark picture that has no bright
tints, no redeeming features to cheer and
gladden the eye, a melancholy life where
no sunshine enters to brighten up the
weary struggle through this world; and in
this continual stretch of both mind and
body, how much of sunshine may the ten-
der mother weave in, if she will catch the
sunbeams as they come, and always be
ready to see "the brightness through the
cloud." This is really making our own
heaven as we go along. In this kingdom
we have many encouragements and advan-
tages, that our poor sisters of the world do
not possess. I have often wondered how my
mother lived and endured the hardships
she did, and reared so large a family with
so little to hope for in the future. And
here, I think is one advantage of plurality;
the mother knows well that she cannot
claim but a portion of her husband's time
and attention, and with none the less respect
and affection for him, she will naturally
seek more the companionship of her children
as they come to years of understanding.
And if she is a true saint and mother they
will in no wise suffer by this closer tie
which will spring up between them. She
will be more sure to understand the nature
of her children, and better able to judge
for them. Confidence and sympathy will be
engendered and where entire confidence
exists between a mother and her boys, as
well as girls, there is not much danger of
anything very wrong; her wise judgment
and, far-seeing affection will ward off the 
approach of evil.
						QUERY.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	The Reverend Phebe A. Hanaford of
Jersey City, recently exchanged pulpits
with her son, the Rev. H. A. Hanaford,
Little Falls, New York.
	MISS BRES, of New Orleans, who gradu-
ated not long since at a Medical school in
Paris, has been appointed physician to the
Sultan's harem at Constantinople.
	JENNIE S. Clark, business manager of the
"Golden Dawn," San Francisco, who has
been suffering from ill health for some time
past, is now sufficiently recovered to resume
her work.
	ANOTHER WOMAN'S paper has been started
in Marshaltown, Iowa, called "The Ladies'
Bureau," by Miss Mattie Sanford. One of
the best lady students at the State Univer-
sity is to be a correspondent.


MISS LIND, a graduate from the Royal
 Gymnasium at Stockholm, has recently
opened a class in Tremont Street, Boston,
called the "Swedish Gymnasium." It is
very highly recommended by the Woman's
"Journal;" indeed, our opinion is that more
of this sort of physical training would be
effectually beneficial to women and girls.
	MRS. MARY Small, who died in Ludlow,
Maine, Oct. 6th, at the advanced age of
ninety-four years and six months, probably
had a larger number of descendants than
any other person in the country. She was
the mother of twelve children, all of whom
lived until recently. Nine are still living.
At the time of her death she had sixty
grand-children, one hundred and fifty-seven
great-grand children and twenty-five great-
great-grandchildren.
	MISS WARNER, author of the "Wide,
Wide World," and other writings, recently
conducted the services at her father's fu-
neral; two clergymen were sent for, but as
neither of them came, the daughter knelt
by the coffin and offered a prayer. A lady
who could control her feelings under such
peculiar circumstances, and lead out in this
capacity, so contrary to custom and the pre-
vailing tone of society, must possess un-
common strength of character, and is worthy
of commendation.
	A ROYAL LINGUIST.—The Queen of Hol-
land, who recently gave a reception to the
Association of the Reform of Laws of Na-
tions, assembled at the Hague, has remark-
able linguistical powers. A correspondent
of the London "Echo," who was present,
says: "It is said that the queen can address
her guests, and that with fluency, in every
language spoken in Europe; and on one oc-
casion, on receiving the Hungarian dele-
gates of some learned society, among many
others who attended her majesty addressed
these gentlemen in Latin, pleading as an
excuse that she had not studied the lan-
guage of Hungary. Her skill as a linguist
was put to the test to-day. I had the good
fortune to be near her majesty at the time,
and satisfied myself that she was able to
speak with fluency to the German, French,
English, Danish, Italian, Spanish, Russian
and Swedish delegates."


SINGULARITY.

	The essence of singularity is the dispro-
portionate development of some essential
characteristic or quality. Almost any of
the common attributes of human nature
may so predominate in an individual as to
place him beyond the sympathy of men in
general, and mark him out as a peculiar or
singular person.
	It by no means follows that because a per-
son is singular, he is thereby an offender
against morality, and unworthy of respect.
Singularity is more apt to proceed from un-
due pride and egotism than from any baser
instinct, and leads to a manner and to habits
which are rather above than below the ordi-
nary level. Sterne's saying that a singular
person may be compared to a monster—more
admired than esteemed—indicates the dis-
tinction which usually attaches to singular-
ity.
	A refined conscientiousness will render a
person peculiar in the easy-going society of
the day. Polished manners and good taste
often seem to justify the charge of singu-
larity against educated men. Emerson re-
marks, in one of his essays, that if good
manners were not established, an original
gentlemen would be sure to invent them.


The inventor in such a case would certalniy
be charged with singularity.
	But persons who get the name of being
singular or eccentric usually do so through
some traits less admirable than these. A
reserved demeanor and way of life; indif-
ference to the influence of neighborhood
and public opinion; carelessness and non-
conformity to customs and fashions; self-ab-
sorption and an obstinate persistence in un-
social habits. Such characteristics will gen-
erally be found to have been derived in
early life from a blow to ambition or affec-
tion, or from an inherited tendency. In
nearly all cases singularity is to be deplored
rather then condemned, and the victim is
generally worthy of both respect and sym-
pathy.
					JOHN ELDERKIN.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE—The difficulty
of applying rules to the pronunciation of ourlanguage may be illustrated in two lines
where the combination of the letters ough
is pronounced in no less than seven differ-
ent ways, vis, as o, uf, of, up, ow, oo, and
ock.
	Though the tough cough and hiccough
		plough me through;
	O'er life dark lough my course I still
		pursue.
	CORSETS.—In very young girls, stays and
all articles of attire which press unequally
upon parts of the body, and all ligatures
and bandages, should be avoided; for instead
of offering support to a weak frame, stays
and bandages favor deformity. It is a cu-
rious but undoubted fact, that the majority
of deformed persons are of the female sex,
a circumstance which probably is owing to
the restraints in dress imposed upon that
part of the species, from the mistaken no-
tion that the delicacy of their bodies requires
artificial support.
	CURIOUS EFFECTS OF MUSIC.—Rosseau
speaks of a lady of rank upon whom the ef-
fects of music produced involuntary fits of
laughter. Mankind, however, are not the
only beings subject to its influence. It has
been remarked long since, the excitement
produced on horses by the sound of horn or
trumpet. Bernadin de St. Pierre observed
the spiders in the corners of rooms where
music was being performed, never failed
of approaching the place occupied by mu-
sicians, and that they never returned to
their webs until the sounds of the instru-
ments had ceased. Sir Everard Home has
observed the effect of a piano upon a horse
or elephant, and he found that the attention
of these animals was completely fixed by
the higher notes of that instrument, and
that their fears broke out from the moment
the lower notes were touched. An experi-
ment of a similar nature was made at Paris,
upon two young elephants, male and fe-
male; an orchestra composed of eleven exe-
cuted various pieces of music. The first ef-
fect produced upon the animals was that of
astonishment; but they very soon showed
by their motions the pleasure they felt.


"HERBERT," said a perplexed mother,
"why is it that you're not a better boy?"
"Well," said the little fellow, soberly, look-
ing up into her face with his honest blue
eyes, "I suppose that the real reason is that
I don't want to be!" We think the child
gave the real reason why all of us, big and
little, are not better than we are.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, 
								Editors.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
T[--]ms: One copy one year, $3.00, one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers: WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah. 

	SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1875.


RESTORATION OF CONFIDENCE.

	If through the medium of the great reforma-
tion, now in progress among the Latter-day
Saints, the lost confidence can be restored, in-
deed a most desirable object will be attained.
But going to meeting, praying and singing, it
must be remembered, will not accomplish it.
	Through slothful habits into which the peo-
ple have fallen, carelessness in business con-
cerns, want of punctuality, failing to discharge
important duties—for all duties should be con-
sidered important ones—through these open-
ings the confidence which existed among the
Saints in the early times of the latter-day
work, has slipped away. And only by carefully
and conscientiously making all possible repara-
tions, and evincing a steadfast determination
to deal cautiously and justly in future, can that
confidence he won back or the broken bars of
its receptacles be mended.
	There is no danger of any individual trusting
the Lord too far, for He never disappoints
those who fully trust Him, never fails to fulfill
every obligation on His part, never forgets His
promises to His children be they great or small.
But men and women have not reached that
standard of completeness, and are liable to dis-
appoint themselves and each other to forget
their promises, or promise more than they can
perform. Hence the necessity of so much care
and exactness in all the relationships of life.


THE BLESSINGS.

	In the wise providences of God, it has not
been ordered that all His children should be
rich or beautiful, or possessed of master intel-
lects, but through His mercies, all may be
useful, grateful and happy—which is a thou-
sand times better.
	Every man and every woman has the privi-
lege of being truthful, honest and virtuous, if
such is the desire of the heart.
	All parents have the right to direct their
children in the way of honorable life, and of
eternal salvation and exaltation, and all chil-
dren have the right to walk therein.
	The poorest in the land may feast their eyes
and imaginations upon the beauties of nature
and of art—what higher source of enjoyment
of this kind do the wealthiest possess?
	Best of all, in prayer, in praise, or in partak-
ing of the holy sacrament, the one in plainest,
simplest apparel can approach just as near the
throne of Grace, and feel exactly as much free-
dom as the one who is richly and handsomely
attired.
	Thus the rarest and most choice blessings are
free to all. And for those who are faithful in
the discharge of their duties, though they may


feel the want of some of the minor comforts of
life now, there is much satisfaction in the best
assurance that when all blessings have been
earned there will be no lack, every want will
be supplied.


MOTIVES.

	It is often really motive rather than action
that proves a person good or bad. An evil man
may have it in his heart to do a great wrong,
but it his way should be hedged up, so that the
commission of the wicked design were rendered
impossible, he would still be guilty, though his
guilt might remain a secret. So also on the
other hand, a heart may be filled with good
desires, and ready at all times to do whatever
seems for the best, but for hindrances and want
of opportunities, may accomplish but little.
Still the heart is just as good, its motives jnst
as pure, though they may be uuknown.
	It frequently appears that persons are led by
impulse or instinct to do good or bad deeds, with
no motive whatever. In such cases, where
good is the result, certainly all the glory should
be ascribed to the Most High. And where evil
is accomplished, there should be more pity than
blame attached to the author.
	Thus it is right to regard a principle for its
own sake, because a principle gives its value to
a noble action, not the action to the principle.


[Column 1]	
	ALMOST A SUCCESS.

	"In this perverted age
	Who most deserves, can't always most engage:
	So far is worth from making glory sure,
	It often hinders what it should procure."
	One of the most frequent occurrences of hu-
man life is to just fall short of attaining what
one most earnestly desires. What punishment
could be greater to the sensitive mind, than to
launch forth rich with expectation, with al-
most a certainty in one's heart that success was
in full view, and when just about to grasp it,
seemingly secure in its possession, find they
have only clasped the cloud, the shadow, the
covering that hid the real object from sight.
	These baffled hopes, these ruined expecta-
tions, are harder to bear than that which was
anticipated a failure from the beginning; a
persistent struggle for strength with that which
was stronger, and withstands all the unwearied
efforts for success.
	Building up before the mind a fabric suited
to the capacities and energies, and shaping
molding and designing every available resource
towards this object; bending and persisting to
bring all the powers in one's possession to make
this formation real; to grasp with ardent and
enthusiastic aspirations every energy and fac-
ulty with such an earnestness of effort as de-
serve success by virtue of their very sincerity,
it is scarcely to be believed that they cannot
one day attain to the heighth of their ambi-
tion, and realize the positive fulfillment of their
purpose.
	These things often remain forever, to poor
short-sighted mortals, unanswered puzzles,
unsolved problems, enigmas which all the
world fail in solving satisfactorily.
	Persons who seemed to possess every requi-
site for success, quick, clever, brilliant, ener-
getic, persevering, whose courage never seems
to flag, ready with all ardor to meet any and
all obstacles in their pathway, yet without
knowing the reason why, never reach the goal
for which they are striving; they have almost
completed what they desired, but not quite;
just at the very moment of possession it eludes
their grasp, and mocks them in the distance.

[Column 2]

They can only show as the result of their la-
bors, the ruined chaos of hope's unsatisfied, de-
sires unrealized; and for it all no analysis of
causes, which will make the position a failure
of a positive nature.
	The question often arises, Was it for want of
faith, a certainty in the heart of the individual
that the purpose they wanted to accomplish
was that for which nature had adapted them?
If so, how utterly useless to persist in attempt-
ing to attain to that against which Nature her-
self had set an unalterable decree: to ignore
the capabilities for action, and for the practical
performance of work which one neither had
brains nor tact to carry into execution, but had
become enamored of, through the seemingly
easily attained suecess of another, whom, per-
haps, Nature had designed for the very groove
into which they so admirably fitted.
	"What man has done man may do," is often
quoted, and similarly also with woman, what
woman has done she may do, but successfully
or otherwise, according to the adaptation of
circumstances, opportunities, capacities and all
the minute details of time, place, surroundings
and last, but most important of all, the inher-
ent qualities of the individual yourself.
	A little more of this and a little less of that
faculty or tendency, and the person would have
been able to make all things balance in pro-
per proportions; or a little paring off or pinch-
ing, squeezing and pushing and perhaps they
might have been securely and snugly ensconced
in the coveted position.
	Such persons never gain any acceptable pop-
ularity except among personal friends, those
who understand the sincerity of their motives
of exertion, and seeing their many good quali-
ties, overlook all deficiencies, and accord them
private sympathy. But how is it with the pub-
lic? How do they regard these unfortunate
speculators, geniuses, office-seekers, book-mak-
ers, authors, etc.? They criticise, judge, con-
demn, yet cannot tell where the fault lies.
	But let one who has not half the real merit
or true genuine excellence, by some clever
means attain the object of his ambition, mount
to the top of the ladder by a mere stroke of
good luck and popularity awaits him, is even
forced upon him. They have struck the public
fancy, toned in with the prevailing spirit of the
times, consequently have ascended in a blaze
of glory, become popular by the universal ac-
cord of the majority, and are perhaps unable
themselves to realize how, or by what wonder-
ful stroke of good fortune they are thus the re-
cipients of the world's favor and praise:
	"It is success that colors all in life;
	Success makes fools admired, makes villains honest.
	All the proud virtue of this vaunting world
	Fawns on success and power, howe'er acquired."

	Children who were carefully trained and edu-
cated in the fight of the Gospel, who were al-
most convinced of the right, and by diligently
applying their hearts to an understanding of
the divine truths, might have had a safe and
sure guide, allow themselves to be allured by
something unreal, which presents to the eye a
more flattering appearance, and lose sight and
hold of that which would be to them "a savor
of life unto life," for the follies and foolish chi-
meras of the fancy, and drift away where there
is no firm foolhold, get beyond the limits of
trust and hope, into a region of doubt, and are
in danger of being stranded forever.
	In looking back, will they not experience the
remorse of conscience, that follows the losing
of the real and positive good, which was just
within their reach, but they exchanged for an
uncertainty which has breught them only sor-
row, regret and failure?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR J. L. Barfoot has resumed his 
former position as superintendent of the Desc-
ret Museum in this city. The Professor is a 
gentleman of learning and ability, and pecu-
liarly adapted to the position by his genuine
love of science.
	WEDNESDAY EVENING, Nov. 24th, there  was
a magical and musical entertainment at the
Salt Lake Theatre, given by Prof. St. Jean and
Mr. J. W. McKenzie.  The audience was tol-
erably large and the performance interesting to
those who are fond of fun and excitement.
	THANKSGIVING EVENING the regular dre-
matic performers as the Salt Lake Theatre
presented a fine holiday bill. The serio-comic
Irsh drama of "Ireland as it is" and a laugha-
ble commedietta, concluded with the illumi-
nated Fairy Fountain. The house was well
filled and the audience seemed to fully appre-
ciate the efforts made to please and entertain
them.
	WE ARE always pleased to announce to the 
public, any happy event concerning the pros-
perity of our friends and associates, and on this
occasion, we are especially gratified to have so
pleasant a subject to chronicle as one of the
most important eras in the life of our very dear
friend and business manager, Miss Cornelia H.
Horne, who was married, Monday noon,
Nov. 29th, to Mr. J. L. Clayton, son of Wm.
Clayton, Esq., of this city. May the choicest
of heaven's blessings rest upon them, and may
each succeding year find them more and more
devoted to each other, is our most sincere and 
earnest wish and prayer.
	THERE ARE complaints being made in many
of the country places, with regard to the irregu-
larity of the malls.  It seems very strange that
there should be such inattention on the part of
those entrusted with such and important public
business. We are acquainted with a lady who,
while recently on a visit to another country,
sent a letter of some importance home; return-
ing after a few days, she found that the letter
had not been received, and on inquiry at the
Post Office in this city, was told there was no
such letter. About a week after the letter
came, which ought to have arrived two weeks
earlier.
	A FEW of the "good sisters" and most inti-
mate friends of Mrs. Bathsheba Smith con-
vened at her residence on Thanksgiving Day,
in the capacity of a SURPRISE Party, think-
ing it one of the most appropriate ways of
spending a day set apart for public and general
thanksgiving. To contribute to each others
happiness is worthy the attention of all, who
value social life in a true light.
	It being the regular meeting day of the 
Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, and the ap-
pointment having been made at Mrs. B. Smith's
residence, after the usual opening excrcises the
meeting was dissolved into one of general in-
terest. Miss E. R. Snow was called upon by
the president of the meeting to deliver the 
opening address; she introduced the subject of 
the women of Utah being represented at the 
Centennial; she wished them to understand it
was not a sectional but national affair and she
wished all to use their utmost influence to give
the woman of Utah a fair representation Mrs.
E. A. Whitney make some excellent remarks
after which dinner was served in good taste,
and style. The utmost good feeling prevailed,
all, with one accord, feeling it had been truly a 
a day of thanksgiving.

[Column 2]
	AGAIN HAS the terrible fire field been raging
in this city, an a[---] [---]. On the
morning of the 16th of November, a fire broke
out in the upper story of the National Bank,
and consumed the whole terior of the build-
ing, the outside, being fire-proof, remained
standing.  The bank was owned by Walker
Bros., and was heavily insured; some adjacent
buildings were destroyed, which were not in-
sured; they were occupied as law offices, dwell-
ing rooms and stores, and the tenants lost
heavily. On Monday morning, Nov. 22nd, a
fire broke out in Howe and Davis' I on Foun-
dry, 17th Ward, which caused great loss of
property, and was not insured; many men were
also thrown out of employment in consequence
of this fire. Hon. W. H. Hooper headed a sub-
scription list with $500, President Young $1000,
Hon. G. Q. Cannon and others $100 for the same
object. Mr. Fairclough, the engineer in em-
ploy of Howe and Davis, was severely burned,
none others injured.


[Column 1]
ESSAY ON LITERATURE.

	Literature, as moderns understand the
term, comprises more especially all works,
of taste, sentiment, poetry, History and
eloquence; excluding abstract discussions,
mere-eruditions, positive sciences, mathe
matics &c.
	The field of literature, at the present day,
is a wide one; the multiplicity of books now
extant, afford facilities for the acquisition of
knowledge heretofore unequaled.
	In the past, there have been eras of re-
finement and art, which are plainly demon-
strated; but the press did not then, as now,
work for its perpetuity. In the so-consid-
ered barbaric ages, it is said the Egyptains
accumulated a very extensive library; the
burning of which is talked of even down,
to this day; and the ruthless Cailiff Omar
stigmatized as a vandal. Most bitterly has
it been regretted by all who desire to in-
form themselves concerning the customs,
education, morals, state &c., of society, as
they existed at the period. How much
might be known of that people by their
literature. Time was, not so long since,
when one newspaper was sufficient for the
demand in America; how different at this
present day. Numerous indeed have they
become, and though not always truthful, con-
sulted like an oracle by the masses of the
people.
	Societies for the gratuitious distribution
of the Bible and tracts of all kinds almost
thrust their books into the hands of the un-
willing and idle; true there is much that is
false and much that should be avoided if
possible, but truth will gain precedence;
much that is really bad, in contrast with the
good, makes its hideousness more manifest.
There is a vast amount of superficial read-
ing, most books contain chaff mixed with
the wheat, some even positive evil with
that which is good; but as my essay is not
upon reading discriminate or indiscriminate,
I will not intrude my ideas upon this subject,
or attempt to point out a selection for oth-
ers.
	"Books" says Dr. Channing "are the true
levelers, they give to all who right faithfully
use them, the society, the spiritual presence
of the best and greatest of our race.
	The whole world abounds in books, many
 of them by celebrated authors upon History,
music, poetry, oratory, and the drama; and
the cultivation of the intellect is at the
present time unparalleled. All this tends to
refinement of feeling and sentiment, more
especially music and poetry, the blending

[Column 2]
together of which is the most harmonious,
grand and sublime refinement possible of
atttainment, by mortals upon the earth. Elo-
quence charms also like music, and the pos-
sessor of it is truly mighty in power; to
seize upon the hearts of an audience, and
bind them for the time in willing captivity
in aid of belief or in spite of belief, with the
influence from within flowing outward with-
out consideration of one's self, above rude
criticism or apology, is more than enchant-
ment. Logic is necessary to carry power
and must form the strength of the dis-
course, but imagination may clothe it with
beauty, light up the eye, loosen the tongue,
and excite rapid and vehement declamation;
true eloquence embodies feelings as well as
facts.
	Poetry produces emotion—emotion elicits
thought. Shakepeare has been true to na-
ture in particularly portraying men at ease,
as well as in that far more difficult condi-
tion, men under the influence of the most
vehement passions; there are others who
stand prominently forward in the Dramatic
art; but none as yet have equaled the "Im-
mortal Shakespeare." We argue there is
much to be learned from the stage; it por-
trays human nature more vividly and forci-
bly than it is possible to make it, however
highly colored by books alone; consequently
it is a more effectual teacher, than any au-
thor unaided, can make himself. It opens
up a channel of thought, of feeling, and re-
finement of sentiment, entirely different
from solitary reading, even of the same ex-
pressions and sentiments. In times past, it
has been looked upon as a place for the en-
couragement of vice, and the engendering
of passions, but like all things else it re-
quires a high tone of cultivation, and there
is a bright prospect that the time is not far
distant when purity of sentiment, and the
strictest regard for morality, virtue and
chastity will prevail upon the stage; so
much has already been accomplished in
bringing about this wonderful change, in
the last few years, that none need despair
of its entire renovation.
	There is something singular in the fact,
that rarely indeed an author can give the
finest touches to the most exquisite senti-
ments of his own composition. He who can
most truly delineate character in acting,
can bring out all the most intricate and sub-
tle windings of the human mind as set
forth by the writer, is truly in his nature
and training artistic. How many most
beautifully written plays, are put upon the
stage only to be murdered by the actors.
How agonizing it must be to the author who
has expended time, money, energy, and
greater than all, thought, has studied hard
and earnestly to accomplish what his mind
had conceived, only to have some rough un-
cultivated and unappreciative mind cut up
and hack in pieces, what was in itself, so su-
premely grand and sublime.
	 There has been, at different times, a cer-
tain style, or class of literature which has
predominated in different countries and
among dissimilar classes of people, and
probably will be so until the end of time;
but wherever the highest tone of cultiva-
tion exists, the prevailing literature must
reach the same standard, and be accord-
ance with their fastidious tastes and senti-
ments.
	In the past, there have been some authors
of such power, who have spoke so convinc-
ingly to the hearts of the people that their
memory can never die, and whose works, it
is to be hoped, may never be out of date or
style, indeed they are forever immortalized;


and it seems doubtful whether any will ever
even in this highly cultivated and refined
age, attain such wonderful celebrity through
their powers of thought and expression;
people are too well off at the present day,
to cultivate the deepest powers of the mind
which the extremes of sorrow and poverty
call forth; they can never feel so deeply,
until they have suffered; there must be feel-
ings as well as facts; and to truly delineate
or portray feelings one must do so from ex-
perience. Who knows how to appreciate
truly and forcibly, unless they themselves
have passed through similar trials? Truly
strong human thinking upon any given sub-
ject or subjects, is necessary to stir the foun-
dation within us, and is capable of bring-
ing forth from the laboratory of the mind,
thoughts to sway a multitude of unthink-
ing. Alas that human beings capable of
thought should allow their natures to lie
dormant, and yet we see it every day.
	How many men and women have never
thought of studying themselves until they
were tried; sickness, death, ingratitude,
calumny, envy and slander will call forth
powers, thoughts and feelings that might
otherwise have slumbered on, unknown but
for this ordeal. Sorrow has its uses in mak-
ing us know ourselves; we must be put up-
on the rack, bound to the fiery wheel of an-
guish; ere we can understand the depths of 
our own intricate and wonderful nature. One
whose life has been all serene, cannot truly
commiserate others, or ingeniously sympa-
thize.
	As positive proof that sorrows, afflictions
and tribulations refine, cultivate and purify
the human heart, I would refer you to the
multitude whom John saw in his vision,
upon the Isle of Patmos, the hosts of the
redeemed, "who came up out of great tribu-
lation;" and also the example of the Sav-
ior "who suffered as never man suffered."
But perhaps you will say what has all this
to do with literature? I will answer you,
everything, for books, oratory, music &c.,
written and brought out under the influen-
ces of the most striking and forcible charac-
teristics, acting upon humanity, will have
a tendency to create a superior order of
minds and intellect and that is what the 
lovers of excellence in attainment, most
study and most desire, in an age of intel-
lectual advancement. To what extent the 
human mind is capable of cultivation has
never yet been decided; the most highly
gifted and intellectual persons are ready to
acknowlege there is an inexhaustible foun-
tain of knowledge yet unopened to them.
And in the future we can none of us dis-
cern what wonders may be unfolded to those
who having the advantages of the past ex-
periences of the great and wise; added to
their own indomitable energies and research,
shall cope with the light of intelligence to
understand the mysteries of the human
mind.
	Dec. 17th, 1874.    				 M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SLANDERING OF WOMEN.

	Perhaps the blackest crime of which man
can become guilty is the use of slanderous
remaks about women. We look upon the
man who trifles with the fair fame of women
as being a murderer of the foulest kind, and
one who should be shunned as you would a 
most venemous reptile. Never use a
woman's name at an improper time or in
mixed company. Never make assertions
about her that you think are untrue, or allu-
sions that you feel she herself would blush
to hear. When you meet with men who


do not scruple to make use of a woman's
name in a reckless and unprincipled manner,
shen them, for they are the worst members
of the community. They are men lost to
every sense of honor—every feeling of hu-
manity. Many a good and worthy woman's
character has been forever injured, and her
heart broken, by a lie manufactured by
some villian and repeated where it should
not have been, and in presence of those
whose lack of judgment urged them to cir-
culate the report. A slander is soon propa-
gated, and the smallest thing derogatory to
a woman's character will fly on the wings of
the wind, and magnify as it circulates, un-
til its enormous weight crushes the victim.
Respect the name of woman, for our moth-
ers, wives and sisters are women; and as we
would have their fair fame untarnished,
and their fair lives unbittered by slander's
vicious tongue, we should heed the ill that
our words may bring upon the mother, wife
or sister of some fellow-creature.—The Gol-
den Dawn.


[Column 1]
	SPLINTERS.

	GENERAL.
	Prof. Jenny, reporting of the resources of
the Black Hills, says the ground containing
gold covers an area of about 800 square
miles......There was a heavy shock of earth-
quake at Knoxville, Tenn., on the 12th Nov.
......The Seneca Fall works are going to
send a steamer to the Centennial; the whole
steamer will be nickel-plated......The mam-
moth hotel at St. Louis will be called the
Grand Hotel, situated at the corner of Grand
and Page avenues, and will occupy 24,000
more feet than the Palace Hotel in San Fran-
cisco......There are 143,000 steel pens, and
160,000 sheets of note paper, and two bar-
rels of ink used at Eastman College, Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., yearly—The Cashier of
the Western Union Telegraph Company, N.
Y., has confessed to misappropriating mon-
ey to the extent of $13,000 and lost in Wall
Street speculations......A remarkable book,
a fac-simile of an Egyptian medical treatise,
written in the 16th century B. C., has been
added to the Astor Library, N. Y., through
the liberality of Wm. B. Astor......An ori-
ginal picture by Rubens is now on exhibi-
tion at the Academy of Art at Rochester,
N. Y., and will be sent to the Metropolitan
Museum of Art in N. Y.—The one hun-
dred and sixteenth birthday of Schiller, the
poet, was celebrated by many German Soci-
eties in America and the Fatherland—A
new history of the United States, by George
Bancroft, is about to be published; it com-
prises the time from the Revolutionary
war down to the present day......The direct
cable has been laid successfully, after having
submerged in water fifteen months; the frac-
ture seems to have been caused by anchor or
grapnel. The U. S. Grand Jury at Chicago,
has indicted 60 persons for violation of the
whisky revenue laws......4,000 bottles of
wine were drank during the season at each
of the leading hotels in Saratoga.
	FOREIGN.
	Disastrous floods are reported to have ta-
ken place throughout England and Ireland
on the 14th and 15th of Nov., the river Fol-
ka near Dublin, burst its banks and sub-
merged thousands of acres......The Russian
government is engaged in a raid against so-
cial agitators, arrests have been affected in
several large cities, Moscow, St. Petersburg
and others......It is rumored the Spanish
Government have secret agents in New
York, taking recruits from among the for-

[Column 2]
eign population.....An Electrical Exhibition
is proposed to be held in Paris in 1877; at the
"Palais de l'Industrie, to illustrate the appli-
cation of electricity to arts, industry and
domestic economy......Terrible fights have
taken place at the polls in Peru, between
the adherents of Gen. Prado and Admiral
Montero......There is now in construction
near Dublin, Ireland, a mammoth telescope,
said to be the largest ever made; it is for
the new observatory at Vienna......A Brit-
tish expedition for the north-western coastof Africa, has sailed from England the last
month, to find a suitable harbor for a com-
mercial and missionary station......A paper
on the anteceedents of Wm. Penn, is being
prepared in England by William Blackmore,
founder of the Blackmore Museum at Salts-
bury, Eng. It is to be read in America dur-
ing the Centennial.
	PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Black, Byron's "Maid of Athens"
died recently at the age 76......Mr. Sothern
will fill a professional engagement in New
York, at a prominent theatre, commencing
next January......Miss Anna E. Dickenson
has a new lecture upon "Father Nathan,"
which she has written and will soon begin
to deliver......Lieutenant General Peterson
died recently, at Novogorod, Russia, aged
92 years, he was a veteran in the wars
against Napoleon......Miss Maggie Davis,
Daughter of Jefferson Davis, is shortly to
be married to Hoyes, cashier of the National
Bank, at Memphis Tenn.......W. E. Blodgett
Esq. a very wealthy and prominent citizen
of New York city died recently......Susan
B. Anthony had nine votes for Judge of the
Supreme Court, at the recent election in
Duchess County New York......An Ameri-
can girl won the gold medal at a recent ex-
amination at Brazil, Rio Janiero, recently......
Miss Nancy Valentine of Maryland, who is
one hundred years old, is a most remarkable
woman of her age; she never wore specta-
cles, and can thread a needle quickly, does
her own cooking spins yarn and knits stock-
ings for sale.


ENTRANCE INTO LIFE.

	It is doing a service to mankind to de-
stroy the prejudice which is generally en-
tertained that youth is educated when some
care has been taken of their infancy. This
prejudice, besides other bad effects of it,
suspends the zeal of that small number of
individuals in the middle ranks of life, who
wish to give their children the best educa-
tion they possibly can. From a false notion
that the minds of young persons are form-
ed at a very early period, they suffer them
to be their own masters at a time when
they stand most in need of a guide to di-
rect them in the course of the most import-
ant period of their education, by the wis-
dom of their counsels, the gentleness of their
insinuations, and the force of their example.
Few persons, in their infancy, learn the art
of employing and governing themselves;
and it is very difficult to learn it till the fac-
ulties of the mind are full-blown, and the
character has taken its true bias. When
young persons, therefore, are entering upon
the tempestuous ocean of human life, then
is the time they must be taught the pilot's
art, the manner of steering their course, so
as to avoid rocks and quicksands. A philos-
opher might begin to take the charge of
education at a time when the vulgar think
it is finished. Many persons are capable of
educating children in the ordinary method
—there are few, very few, capable of form-
ing men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE VULGARITY OF LADIES.

	The Springfield Republican is shocked by
	"The Vulgarity of Ladies":
	There is a kind of assumption that Wo-
man is a neater, cleaner, more sensitive and
more refined creature than Man. It may
be so, but a lady will do many things which a
gentleman could not bring himself to do.
There is no gentleman in Springfield, for
instance, who would walk through Main
Street dragging part of his raiment on the
ground after him. Any gentleman would
consider himself defiled by such a perform-
ance, and probably would soon find himself
in the hands of the police and arraigned be-
fore a commission de lunatico. No gentle-
man would care to parade the street in such
attire that one hand was consequently occu-
pied in reefing the slack of his pantaloons,
after the manner of holding up skirts at the
present time. American gentlemen attach
the character of gambler to a man who
wears many jewels and rings, and recognize
a cognate vulgarity in the lady who simi-
larly overloads herself on occasions when
personal adornment is not in keeping. What
we mean is that there is a modesty and so-
briety of attire and even of bearing among
recognized gentleman which the recognized
lady has not yet attained.


SOMETHING ABOUT AUTUMN
			LEAVES.

	There are various methods of preserving
autumn leaves, to make them really beauti-
ful for ornamentation, but, like all other
things, it requires a combination of taste
and skill in gathering, preparing and ar-
ranging. A great deal depends upon the
selection of certain varieties. Maple, Hick-
ory, Quivering Aspen, Cottonwood, Pear,
Shrub and Oak are among the best. The
Sumac and Sassafras are very best. Gather
the leaves and iron them the same day, and
iron them dry; your iron must not be too
hot, and it will be necessary to have a good
supply of leaves, as many of them will be
spoiled in the ironing. For making up bou-
quets, bunches of leaves may be kept upon
the twigs. Leaves can be pressed and
dipped in melted wax, or ironed with a
waxed iron; but the colors will be more
brilliant if ironed and then varnished. If
you wish to ornament frames with them,
the frame need not be made very neatly as
the leaves will hide the imperfections.
Strips of pasteboard tacked upon the frame
are better as some leaves will not adhere to
wood. Put in your glass and picture first,
and fasten firmly with strips of muslin
pasted around the edge; common glue put
into a can and soaked in water over night,
and then boiled slowly, will answer; use it
thick and hot. Pour out a little in a saucer,
and dip in the lower part of the leaf; then
press it on the frame, leaving the upper half
loose; they will then curl slightly in time,
and have a much more natural appearance.
If the frame is oval begin at the top and
finish the bottom with a rosette of leaves.
On square frames groups of leaves can be
put on either side, or corners, as the taste
may suggest; for the centre of the group
use everlasting flowers, berries, or acorns.
	To preserve choice leaves, arrange on
cards, or form into bouquets on heavy pa-
per. Leaves for cards varnish on one side,
for bouquets on both sides. Ornamental
grasses and everlasting flowers should be
more extensively cultivated.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The Herald of Health gives a simple remedy
for the appetite for strong drink, an orange taken
regularly half an hour before breakfast.
	Persons inclined to catarrh, or who are subject
to it, should as much as possible avoid smoke and
dust. The sleeping room should have an open fire-
place, and should be well aired for an hour in the
early morning, and no draft permitted. The diet
should be nourishing, and alcoholic stimulants
avoided. Flannels worn from the middle of Aug-
ust, and increased in warmth as the season advan-
ces, give protection against the sudden changes of
temperature.
	To treat an ordinary case of sore throat, the
Herald of Health advises the wet pack, as the
simplest and best treatment. A linen cloth wrung
from cold water, and over this a knit or crotchet
band four feet long and four inches wide. Apply
this two or three nights in succession, unless it is a
a very serious case, then the pack should be kept on
during the day. If removed in the morning,
wash the throat in very cold water and rub dry
with a coarse towel and with the hand. This will
prevent taking more cold. The more friction used
the better, let it be a sort of squeezing of the parts
so as to affect the deep seated tissues. In this
way sore throats may be prevented from becoming
chronic.
	Sanitary Staircases: When so much is being
done for the preservation of life and health, it
would be well to remember that stairs are one
point to be considered, and one upon which very
little seems to have been thought. It is an abso-
lute fact that it takes "twenty times as much
strength to climb stairs as to walk on an even
surface, and if you double the speed, you quadru-
ple the force required for the effort. Staircases
should be constructed on sanitary principles;" the
rising step should not be more than six inches in
height, while the width of each step, should be
eleven or twelve inches. If the flight is long, there
should be frequent rests, otherwise the exhaustion
of continued effort will be great."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Wax for Sealing Fruit Cans.—Resin one pound;
lard, tallow and beeswax, one ounce each. Melt
and stir well together.
	Buchwheat Cake.—To make the cakes come off
nicely, rub the griddle with half a turnip, which
is considered by many much better than fat.
	Disinfectant.—Burn ground coffee on a hot
shovel as a disinfectant for sick-rooms, refrigera-
tors etc.
	To Glaze Linen.—This may be done by adding
a teaspoonful of salt and one of finely scraped
white soap to a pound of starch.
	Ink-stains in Books.—They may be removed by
wetting the spot with a solution of one ounce ox-
alic acid and half a pint of water.
	To wash Oilcloth.—soap should never be used,
but wash with milk and water and rub dry.
	Excellent China Cement.—This may be made
by stirring plaster of Paris into a thick paste of
strong gum-arabic. apply with a brush and let the
articles stand three days before trying them.
	Shrewsbury Cakes.—Mix a stiff paste with one
and a half pounds of flour, three fourths of a
pound of sifted loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of pound-
ed cinnamon, half a pound of warmed butter and
one egg, with a little milk. Roll it out thin, cut
round and bake in a slack oven.
	Tapioca Cream.—Three tablespoonfuls of tapi-
oca; cover it with water and let soak four hours;
then pour off the water, put in one quart of milk
and boil; then a teacupful of sugar and a little
salt. Stir until it begins to thicken. Pour into a


dish, make a frosting of the three whites of eggs
well beaten up and pour over the top. Eat cold.
	Custard Cakes.—One cup of sugar, one egg,
one-third of a cup of butter, put together and beat
to a cream; add one cup of sweet milk, two cups of
flour; one teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoon-
fuls of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly tins. Cus-
tard for inside, one and a half cups of milk, two
eggs, (reserving one white if frosting is desired) one
tablespoonful of corn-starch and one cup of sugar.
Flavor to suit the taste.
	Shellac Varnish.—Dissolve gum-shellac in alco-
hol; keep it well corked. This is said to be the
best waterproof varnish for boots and shoes known.
Applied to the soles when dry, it prevents the
leather from absorbing the water. It is unsurpass-
ed as a remedy for cuts and burns. It will make
wood water tight, and prevents its warping. It
will mend wood, crockery or glass. To keep
moths from furs, apply this varnish to a paper
bag. After the furs are in, seal the bag up with
the varnish and they are perfectly safe.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CHICAGO at the end of the year will have
10,000 more houses than at the beginning.
	THE richest woman in America is Miss
Kitty Wolfe. Her income is $1,000 a day.
	THE Lake Superior Mines since 1850 have
yielded nearly 7,000,000 tons of iron.
	A PEWTER Tea-set, formerly the property
of General Burgoyne, and marked with his
name, is now in possession of a family at
Gansevoort, Saratoga County, where it has
been for nearly a century. It was found
near the battle-field of Saratoga, in a hollow
stump.
	A GIGANTIC Statue of William the Con-
queror has been erected at Falaise. The
monument is surrounded by the statues of
the six first dukes of Normandy, and is the
work of M. Louis Rocket. It is reckoned
one of the finest equestrian statues in Eur-
ope, being several metres in height, and
seven thousand kilogrammes in weight. It
was executed in 1851, but lack of funds has
prevented till now this addition to the memo-
rials of the dukes of Normandy.


SILENT INFLUENCE.—It is the bubbling
stream which flows gently, the little rivulet
which runs along day and night by the
farm-house that is useful, rather than the
swollen flood or winding cataract. Niaga-
ra excites our wonder, and we stand amazed
at the power and greatness of the Creator.
But one Niagara is enough for the world,
while the same world requires thousands
and tens of thousands of silver fountains
and gently-flowing rivulets, that water
every farm and meadow, and garden, and
that shall flow on every day and every
night, with their gentle quiet beauty. So
with the acts of our lives. It is not by
great deeds, like those of the martyrs, that
good is to be done. It is by the daily and
quiet virtues of life—the Christian temper,
the meek forbearance, the spirit of forgive-
ness in the husband, the wife, the father,
the mother, the brother, the sister, the
friend, the neighbor, that it is to be done.


A DOCTOR returned a coat to a tailor be-
cause it did not fit him. The tailor seeing
the doctor at the funeral of one of his pa-
tients, said, "Ah, doctor, you are a happy
man."
	"Why so?" asked the doctor.
	"Because," replied the tailor, "you never
have any of your bad work returned on
hands."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.

	Let the golden cord of love bind together
life's threads into unity of purpose,and we
shall not have lived in vain.—Ex.
	LET us take care how we speak of those
who have fallen on life's field. Help them
up—not heap scorn upon them. We did
not see the conflict. We do not know the
scorn.
	PITY with its crystal drops is sweetening
many cups of life. And, in return, many a
grateful heart is laying on the palm of pity
the choicest gems of gratitude.
	SUCCESS IN LIFE.—Self-help alone makes
a man succeed. If he has confidence in
himself he may despise the world, because
he is sure to get on by his own determina-
tion to succeed.—Sir Robert Peel.
	HUMILITY is the first lesson we learn
from reflection, and self-distrust the first
proof we give of having obtained a know-
ledge of ourselves.—Gimmerman.
	TRUTH is the bond of union and the basis
of human happiness. Without this virtue
there is no reliance on language, no confi-
dence in friendship, no security in promises
and oaths.—Collier.
	'TIS the mission of hope to hold forth the
germ of many a fair yet fragile flower.
But they blossom forth or wither away, as
God may decree it, in close proximity to
the thorns of bitter disappointment.
	PATIENCE has its charms as well as its
reputed virtue. The charm is in its cheer-
fulness; the virtue in its quiet fortitude to
wait and trust. One adds to the other's
beauty just as a moonbeam resting upon a
placid sea adds to thebeauty of the peace-
ful waters.
	THE grand idea of toiling to rescue the
world from sin nevermastered a man's soul
without enlarging it, without stimulating all
his faculties to unprecedented vigor, unfold-
ing resources not yet imagined to be in him,
and producing a concentration and persever-
ance of action, which cannot fail of realiz-
ing great results.
	IT is the divine attribute of the imagina-
tion that it is irrepressible, unconformable—
that when the real world is shut out, it can
create a world for itself, and with a necro-
mantic power can conjure up glorious shapes
and forms and brilliant visions to make a
solitude populous, and irradiate the gloom
of a dungeon.—Washington Irving.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A LIGHT WEIGHT.—"Tom, you seem to
gain flesh every day; the grocery business
must agree with you. What did you weigh
last?" "Well, Jim, I really forget now, but
it strikes me it was a pound of butter"
	BARNUM'S chariot girl, who was to have
married the unfortunate Donaldson, has en-
tered a convent somewhere in Canada. She
is said to be very pretty, and very intellect-
ual. An intellectual girl in a chariot is
something of a novelty. A very un-chariot-
able paragraph.
	A GENTLEMAN was describing to Douglas
Jerrold the story of his courtship and mar-
riage—how his wife had been brought up
in a convent and was on the point of taking
the veil when his presence burst on her en-
raptured sight and she accepted him as her
husband. Jerrold listened to the end of
the story, and then quietly remarked, "she
simply thought you better than nun."


DR. Lawson, of the largest British Lunatic
Asylum, has weighed the brains of all the 
demented patients who have died under his
charge within the past five years. He says
that the knowledge thus gained shows that 
the brains of all lunatics do not lose in
weight by disease, and that they average
as large as those of sane persons.
	"WHEN I married," said ex-Chancellor of 
the Exchequer Lowe, at a London dinner
party, I declared, 'With all my worldly
goods I thee endow,' although I hadn't a 
shilling in the world." "But," chimed in 
the wife, "you had your splendid talents."
"Yes, my dear; but you know I couldn't
endow you with them," was the amiable
gentleman's reply.


WALLIN & TANNER,
GROESBECK BLOCK, SECOND SOUTH STREET.
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
HARNESS, SADDLES,
AND 
Horse Blankets,
CHEAPER THAN EVER.
F. AUERBACH & BRO
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRV GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes Ladies Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at 
the Old Fashioned House.
HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such 
brushes as we have not on hand.
Wm. H. MILES, Supt.
LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in 
Crockery, China  and Glassware,
	LE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.
MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James Box 306, Salt Lake City.
NEW 
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at 
S. P. TEASDEL'S.
Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduced Prices Boys and Childrens'
Clothing, Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
S. P. TEASDEL.
MILLINERY
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. she is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL Prices to suit the times.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS. NOTIONS, GROCERIES
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to 
ONE YEAR.
IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO 
W. HARRISON'S, 
One door South of Constitution Bu[--]dings,
Main Street.
THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR,
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Ra[--].
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.
LADIES
If you want ycur husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR;
BUTTER and EGGS,
F. GOSS, Supt.
EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES;
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
Fine Line of LADIES CORSETS.
H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND 
BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1875.		No. 14.


For the EXPONENT.
	THE NAME, JESUS.

I think upon that sacred name,
	And in that name, I pray;
It kindles in my soul, a flame
	That cheers me day by day.

The music of that precious name,
	Above all minstrel's art
Wakes in the mind, a nobler aim,
	And motive in the heart.

I feel a virtue in that name—
	The name in which we pray:
That holds, in faith's eternal chain,
	The powers of hell, at bay.

That name embodies strength and pow'r,
	Prolonging mortal breath;
And often in the trying hour,
	Averts the hand of death.

I boast the merit of that name—
	I venerate its power—
Its matchless potency I claim
	As bulwark, shield and tower.
							E. R. S.


[column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
		STEP BY STEP.

	It is thus the little tottering feet first
learn to go. Step by step they advance in-
to the broader and higher walks of life, and
still in the same manner must they pursue
the course unto the end. There is no con-
sistency in contemplating more than one
step at a time. In cases where necessity
demands haste, we may quicken our steps
or take longer strides, but never two at
once. And every step in life, let the young
reflect, tends towards happiness or misery,
into light or into darkness. It would be
folly to undertake a walk through a crowd-
ed, busy street with the eyes shut; extreme
folly to think of moving onward with the
kingdom of God in the way of salvation,
having the eyes closed and the heart sealed
against any principle pertaining to the Gos-
pel. But when the eyes are able to see and
the heart to comprehend the dealings of
God among His children, then is the way
plain and following after righteousness
sweet and beautiful. Then is the yoke easy
and the burden light; then step by step,
calmly and surely the way may be wended.
	A young woman who had been but a few
years married, once talked in the following
manner to a company of young ladies. Said
she, "Girls if you are wise you will never
marry. A young woman who has a good
home is foolish for seeking to better her
condition by leaving it for any man on
earth."
	One of the young ladies asked why she
had left her good home and parents for the 
sake of marrying.
	"Because," she answered, I did not know
any better. I had been warned, but like
others before me I would not believe. I
could not appreciate the blessings by which
I was surrounded, and so I was unhappy
without any cause. Now I see my folly, and
if any thing I can say will help to save an-
other from acting in this foolish way I shall
be glad."
	You see this poor woman was unhappily
constituted, but she did not know it and
chose to blame circumstances instead of
herself for her misfortunes. She was like
one walking in the dark. Had she com-

[column 2]
prehended her true position, she might
have sweetened her cup of life by cultiva-
ting a sweet and amiable disposition, and
by opening her eyes to the beautiful things
in life and glancing as hurriedly as possible
over the dark scenes she was obliged to pass
through.
	I will show you the opposite side of the
picture by relating how I heard a young wife
and mother express herself not long since:
she said "It is wonderful to contemplate with
what small means a human heart may be plea-
sed and gratified. When I was a little girl I
was so happy and so well satisfied with the
position I held, that I never thought of
wishing to be 'big' as many of my little
companions did. I was sometimes half in-
clined to wish to remain as I was, lest, as a
woman, I should not have such easy and
pleasant times.
	"But as I grew older, and by and by,
balls and parties, beaux and lovers came to
fill up the vacancies I had imagined in giv-
ing up the delightful romps and merry
games which as a child I had so much en-
joyed, I came to believe that youth instead
of childhood was mortal's brightest day.
And instead of feeling the extra work which
crowded upon me as I grew, a burden, I
felt glad and happy all the while that I was
becoming daily better able to do something
for myself and for my friends.
	"When I was married, it was truly the
happiest day I had ever experienced. Dur-
ing a long and blissful maidenhood, which
numbered just as many years as the child-
hood which preceded it, I had avoided as
much as possible the thought of marrying.
The days seemed so beautiful and dear to
me then, that I dreaded a change lest it
should bring less propitious ones. But when
the day for my bridal arrived, I felt no mis-
givings whatever. For years I had made
daily practice of praying that I might be
directed by the Holy Spirit in choosing a
husband, for I had believed that I should
marry sometime. And now I felt so secure,
so satisfied that my prayers had been heard
and answered that there was no room for
doubts and forebodings.
	So serenely happy was I at the time when
I knelt in the holy sanctuary beside him to
whom I pledged eternal faithfulness, and
afterwards when he proved his love and
fidelity so sincere, that I scarcely looked
forward to any future hope. But after the
birth of my little one, the unparalleled
blessedness of the new love which came
made me almost wonder how I could have
felt myself so perfectly blessed for so many
years without it.
	I want every step in my future life to
prove as each one has in the past; that God
directs, that it is the proper step in the pro-
er time and place, bringing me into new
light and love and joyousness."
	Thus we may walk on, either in the
gloom of doubt and despondency or in the
broad, free light of hope and trust. But
choose which path we may, the shaded or
the sunny one, it is as well to remember
that we can move only so fast—step by step
—and that nothing is to be gained by head-
long haste.
							MABEL.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GOVERNOR THAYER of Wyoming, in his
recent Message to the Territorial Legisla-
ture, endorses the system of Woman Suf-
frage, and adds, after six years' practical
trial, he would recommend its continuance.
—Woman's Journal.
	TENNESSEE IS doing bravely for the cause
of woman in one of the departments of the
Woman Question. The boards of education
have made this resolve; that, "they will
not hereafter pay any teacher less money
than another for the single fault of being a
woman instead of a man." It is said this
decision is causing some little excitement
in educational circles.
	THE UNVEILING of the Monument in
Memory of the poet Edgar A. Poe, took
place Nov. 17th, in Westminister Church
yard. The ceremonies attending the dedi-
cation were sublime and imposing. The
preliminary exercises to the unveiling took
place in the Western Female High School.
	THERE HAVE been placed in the Louvre
recently, six busts of the finest white mar-
ble, representing the first six Roman Em-
perors. Although they are many centuries
old, they are so well preserved that they
are, in appearance, as perfect as if they had
just been chiseled. The faces are said to be
particularly fine, that of Augustus especially
so. They were discovered in Africa.
	HIS EXCELLENCY President Grant has
delivered his message to the Senate and
House of Representatives, and summed up
his opinions of the country, the people, and
the future. He specifies five particular sub-
jects upon which he considers it necessary
to legislate this present session. He seems
to feel more concerned for Utah than any of
his predecessors have done, and is desirous
to establish some status by which plural
wives and their offspring may be recognized.
The "possibly innocent plural wives of
Utah" ought certainly to tender him a
vote of thanks, that is, if they did not
know, that in the sight of God and His ser-
vants their status was already permanently
fixed.
	"Joaquin Miller," writing from London,
gives a very pleasing though brief sketch
of some of the celebrated Ladies of Lon-
don. He speaks in the highest terms of
their genuine hospitality and warmth of
feeling, and says: "In fact, any of these
great ladies will make you feel as much at
home in half an hour, as if you'd gone to
take tea with a favorite aunt." Of Jean
Ingelow he says: "She lives in the aristo-
cratic Kensington Gardens quarter, but in a
plain and unpretentious way, and is very
affable and accessible to Americans."
"George Elliot" is sometimes seen in litera-
ry clubs with her husband, Mr. Lewis, but
very rarely. She lives in a very quiet, hum-
ble way in the north side of London, in a lit-
tle two-story house. Lady Hardy, another
of the great ladies of London, lives just
opposite. Mrs. Linletten lives in about the
heart of London in a more pretentious
style. Christina Rosetti is an invalid, and
lives with her mother and brother. The
ladies of Literary London have no meetings
as they have in America.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Nov. 29th, was calculated
to awaken serious reflections in the minds
of all present in regard to re-baptism and
renewing of covenants. Many of the sis-
ters present expressed their wishes in re-
gard to reformation, with much fervency
and earnestness. The subject of the repre-
sentation of Utah at the Centennial was
dwelt upon with zeal and eloquence by Miss
E. R. Snow. No one who attends these
meetings of the sisters can be left in any
doubt as to the sincerity of the desires of
those who are connected with these socie-
ties, to improve themselves, and to use
their influence for the advancement of light
and truth upon the earth.

		HARRISVILLE NOV. 21st, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I think it a duty, as well as a pleasure to
send you a report of our Society, we are
still improving and endeavoring to do good;
our meetings are attended with a good
spirit, peace and harmony prevails. We
received a visit from Pres. Eliza R. Snow,
on the 11th of Nov. and also Mrs. Harriet
Brown and Mrs. Frodsham from Ogden.
The house was well filled a goodly number
of brethren. both young and aged.
	Pres. Eliza R. Snow arose and addressed
us at some length, upon the most beneficial
principles of the Gospel, which we wish to
appreciate as we ought, for it was a source
of great pleasure to hear instruction from
her lips. She then proceeded to organize a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
and gave them instruction in the line of
their duties. Then followed Sisters Brown
and Frodsham and also some appropriate
remarks by our Pres. Melissa Shirtliff.
	The Presidency of the District expressed
themselves pleased with the instruction
that had been given.
	Ever yours in the Gospel:
		MRS. MARY ELIZA TAYLOR,
								Sec'y.

	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation in the Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City,
was organized September last by Miss Eliza
R. Snow, assisted by Mrs. Zina D. Young,
and Mrs. Priscilla Staines (President of the
Twelfth Ward Relief Society). Mrs. Ro-
mania Pratt was chosen President, with
Counselors, etc. The Society has increased
in numbers considerably, and a good feeling
prevails universally among the members.
A spirit of mutual improvement is apparent,
and all seem desirous to appreciate their
blessings and privileges. Essays and select
readings, with speaking, praying and sing-
ing are the prominent features of our meet-
ings, and we hope to improve in every good
word and work.
			ELIZABETH KINGSBURY.
						Ass't Secretary.
	Dec. 8th, 1875.


LETTERS FROM THE COUNTRY.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON CO., NOV. 20th '75.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Sister Barney arrived here yesterday, and
held a meeting at eleven o'clock, and start-
ed for Parowan at 3 p. m. my husband and
myself accompanying her, we had a good
time together, also an excellent meeting,
truly enjoyable.  Sister Barney carries a
good influence with her and truly has the


spirit of her mission. We think if two or
three sisters from head quarters could come
along occasionally it would arouse the sisters
to their duty in regard to their religion,
both practically and spiritually. I had not
thought that she or any other woman in
Utah, could talk so long and so well to an
audience as she did. I am rejoiced to find
they are coming out and declaring them-
selves to be sincere in what they profess.
The people both here and in Parowan felt
well and thought she had come just at the
right time when Reformation was needed.
We are pleased to hear of John Henry
Smith being ordained Bishop.
	Yours in the faith of the Gospel.
								J. B.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Nov. 23 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We have had such a feast to-day in this
beautiful little city of ours. Sister Barney,
from Salt Lake visited us and held a gener-
al meeting. Her discourse was spirited and
full of principle; it ran chiefly upon the
UNITED ORDER and HOME MANUFACTURE
in its various branches. Her heart was full
to overflowing, and it was as she said, when
she looked at the faces of the daughters of
Zion, whose bright eyes beamed with intel-
ligence, it was an index to the heart that
the spirit of God was there.
	She cautioned the young ladies against
forming any acquaintance or being united
with the wicked and corrupt outsiders; in
fact I think she talked of everything that
was beneficial and necessary.
	She said "I try to be as charitable as I can
in my feelings towards my enemies, know-
ing they are the children of our Father in
heaven, and if they would but repent of
their sins and redress our wrongs and let us
worship our God according to the revela-
tions which He has given us, and according
to the declaration of independence, then the
will of our Father might be done on the
earth as it is done in Heaven."
	Your sister in the gospel of peace,
				JANE SPIKING VANCE.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I would like to say a few words, through
your columns, to my beloved sisters. The
earnest and brave, who are trying to help
to spread the gospel, by advocating its prin-
ciples at home, in private circles, in SundaySchools, in Retrenchment Associations, and
in every place where woman may be per-
mitted to raise her voice.
	I believe woman's influence to be one of
the most powerful instruments for good
upon the earth
	It is not necessary that woman should
be great, or learned, or popular, in order to
exert a power for good. Every woman who
is possessed of pure and good motives may
be inspired with the Holy Spirit (if she
seeks it aright), to perform a spiritual work
towards educating the young, which seems
a part of Woman's Mission. God has given
to woman this field of physical labor, to im-
part from her own body life to the ten-
der blossoms which contain the germ of the
immortal soul; then did He not also design
that she should bear an equally important
share in nurturing, from her own resources,
the heart, the true inner life which governs
and controls the outward?
	If we would help to educate the rising
generation to understand those advanced
principles which will lead them into the


celestial kingdom, it will be essential for us
to act with faith, and let prayer accompany
teaching and counsel, and above all let
prayer be not a form of words, void of feel-
ing, but in the strength and earnestness of a
humble heart, ask for the Holy Spirit to
guide and direct every act of our lives.
	So far as it is possible, let our teachings
and practices correspond, otherwise we shall
fail in producing the good we desire.
	Women are called enthusiasts upon the
subject of religion, but is it not this very
earnestness which makes them more devo-
ted followers of Jesus than men usually are?
How was it with Mary and Martha, and
others in the Saviour’s time? Were they
not looked upon as over-zealous, ridiculed,
censured and despised? Did not Jesus love
them for this sincerity and devotion? Did
He not strikingly manifest His appreciation
of their genuine merit by showing Himself
first to them after the resurrection? Have
we not encouragement enough, by this ex-
ample and its results, to believe the Lord
will bless us in our efforts, however humbld
they may be, and crown our labors with the
success which only those who enter heart
and soul into the work can expect to recieve?
							EMILE.
	S. L. City, Dec. 7, 1875.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	"YOU haven't opened your mouth during
the whole session," said an M. P., to a fel-
low member. "Oh, yes, I have," was the
reply; "I yawned thtough the whole of
your speech."
	A LITTLE girl in Mt. Vernon street cut
her finger a few days since and the fond
mother ordered John to run qnickly to
Charles street and bring a doctor. "If one
ain't in," were the orders, "leave word and
go to the next." John obeyed orders, and
twenty-one doctors called in course of an
hour.—Boston Journal.
	IT is a most painful spectacle in families
where the mother is the drudge, to see the
daughters elegantly dressed, reclining at
their ease, with their drawing, their music,
their fancy work, and their reading—beguil-
ing themselves to the lapse of hours, days
and weeks, and never dreaming of their
responsibilities.
	A DETROIT man, who was greatly an-
noyed because his wife was not better post-
ed in history, procured one and asked her
to study it. She complied, and when he
came home to supper he found her reading
away, hair down, slippers on, all the fires
out but one, and no supper. She said she
was not sick, knew nothing about his sup-
per, but she added, as she settled back in
her chair, "I can tell you all about the first
discovery of Florida as straight as a string!"
	IN a Tremont street car the other after-
noon—the Boston "Globe" tells the story—
the seats on one side were well filled, on the
other seven ladies were seated, and, pin-
backs to the contrary notwithstanding, they
contrived to spread over the entire space.
Presently, a tired, pale and feeble-looking
woman entered, and, the ladies glancing at
her, settled back and let her stand. The
only gentleman in the car, one of Boston's
best known authors, moved by righteous
indignation, rose and said; "Ladies, how
can you expect any gentleman to give you
seats in a car when you treat one of your
own sex with such unfeeling cruelty?" Then
turning to the poor woman he said: "Mad-
am, my seat is at your service," and left
the car in thorough disgust.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL TO THE FLOWERS.

Dear children of the garden, field and wood
And wayside; ye have come, and ye have gone,
Like players in some merry interlude,
Between the tragic acts of Winter: on
In gay procession o'er a brilliant zone
Ye've traveled, holding up before the eye
The shape of perfect Beauty, and the tone
Of that harmonious coloring which we try
In vain to equal, or indeed come nigh.

Sweet was the honey which ye gave the bees,
Industrious sippers of your golden cells:
Rich was the fragrance which ye gave the breeze,
As he ran ringing all along your bells;
Glad were ye when the rain from cloudy wells
Sparkled upon your petals, and the sun,
Like one who in the blessed heaven dwells.
Came down and kissed you fondly every one,
And every day until your course was run.

Like one bereaved, upon your graves I gaze,
Mourning your absence with unfeigned grief;
Remembrance paints me all your pretty ways.
In your fine progress from your first green leaf,
Until ye stood up like an Autumn sheaf
In mellow splendor. O ye fa'ry things!
Why should ye go down like a sunken reef?
Why like the swallow ply your farewell wings,
And cause the desolation which your absence brings?

Thou Snow-drop, rival of the taintless snow;
Thou Crocus, symbol of the monarch's crown;
Thou Primrose, shiner in a golden show
Which glittered richly all the green bank down;
Thou Daisy, wearer of the bridal gown;
Thou Lily, lady of the ancient hall;
Thou Poppy, soldier in thy red renown;
Thou Rose, the queen of every bush and wall
How have ye all gone down under the spoiler's pall?

Farewell companions of the singing hills,
Of the green grass, and of the yellow crop;
Ye friends of rivers and of glassy rills;
Ye watchers on the lofty mountain's top;
Ye worshippers beneath the crystal cope,
And in the flaming, shining, solar fane:
Farewell, farewell, in sorrow and in hope;
Our hearts will linger on in daily pain,
Until we see your happy looks again.


HINTS FOR YOUNG LOVERS.

      FROM AN OLD ENGLISH PAPER.

	From thirty downwards (would it could
be reckoned the other way!), men calculate
in proportion to the force of their attain-
ment. They imagine probabilities of fail-
ure, which never rise in a young man's
brain. He proceeds, as it were, by instinct,
and every step he takes is rather the effect
of accident than design. But they deliber-
ate on each detail. They weigh their words.
They watch for opportunities. And it is
thus that so many young women are attract-
ed and caught, they not how or why, and,
to the great wonderment of shallow observ-
ers, by suiters discrepant in various ways,
beside the mere disparity of years. Andto the lover who thus enters into the daring
adventure with all the odds against him,
what are his chances, what the compensa-
tion? The impetuous burst of boyish fancy
is incomparably less interesting than the
delicate, yet manly, march of matured pass-
ion. Whoever has felt the first, may be al-
lowed to image the latter—to picture to
himself the full-grown mind, with reason,
taste, and sentiment united, choosing its ob-
ject and firmly careering on its way; each
day growing bolder and tenderer, but not
less wise; bringing but the development of
the heart it would make its own; fostering
its timid virtues, yielding to its young cap-
rices, training its tendril fancies, losing
gradually all separate identity to their clus-
tering foliage; till at length the parent stem
and the encircling parasite becomes as one,
nourished by the same sap, and mutually
supporting and embellishing each other in
undivided sympathy. Such is the progress
of a successful passion between beings of
unequal ages, but of similar natures, unde-


faced by violent disputes, and those odious
reconciliations, every one of which steal
something from love's original stock. And
if failure meets the man of mature age who
ventures on the conquest of a young beauty,
it comes without disgrace, for he rarely haz-
ards, by a too rapid advance, the chance of a
too violent check. He looks out for sym-
toms, and is not so blinded but he can pre-
ceive the breakers which warn him of the
rocks. Hence, when he fails, his rising re-
gard is not turned to lasting hatred. No
ruffian jealousy tramples out the memory of
hope nor is wounded pride left fostering in-
to fierce revenge.  He can make allowance
for her who was worthy his affection, and
he can admire and esteem, even when he
may not dare to love her.—Agnes de Mans-
field.


For the EXPONENT.
		NOVEL READING.

	A great deal has been said and a great
deal more might be said on this subject; in
my opinion it is one of the many evils that
lead the young astray; for when they begin
to read novels it is hard to give them up,
they get their minds so wrapped up in them
that they think and speak of nothing else.
	A lady told me she had a sister who when
she read a novel could talk of nothing else
for about three weeks afterwards; if you
asked her a question she would half answer
and then say something about the novel she
had read. I used to be a great novel read-
er but they never did me any good; I was
told so many a time, but still I kept on un-
til I joined the Retrenchment Association,
about a year ago, and since then I have not
read any novels. I have read the church
works and instead of storing my mind with
romantic imaginations I am seeking to store
it with knowledge that will not only do me
good in this world, but also in the world to
come. I once heard of a man who took a
journal for three years and when he was
counseled to give it up he would say wait
till this story is finished, but when he got
the number with the end of the story there
was the beginning of another in it, and so
he would begin that one, and so on until he
had three year's numbers; he then formed
a resolution that he would stop them; but
says he, "if I give them away they will do
some other person as much harm as they
have done me, so I will burn them." And
he took and piled them up and set fire to
them, and he said it was as good a days
work as he had done for years; and I think
so too; we should follow his axample; if we 
read novels let us stop them and if we have
any books that we know will not do us, or
any one else any good, but if we read them
fill our minds with wrong ideas let us burn
them and then they can't do us any harm.
I think that we RETRENCHMENT girls should
show to the world that we desire true in-
telligence; and we can't become intelligent
unless we read useful books.
	In selecting reading matter, something
should be chosen that will be beneficial to us
in some way; something that will serve to
enlighten and enliven the powers of intel-
lect; not always the same subjects but a di-
versity of interesting and instructive
themes. And in reading simple anecdotes,
we sometimes hit upon a little dint of in-
spiration, which will lay the foundation for
great and sublime reflections and cause us to
develop ideas that may be given to the
world in glowing richness and beautiful
originality. That we may have strength to
conquer all our weaknesses and live pure


and upright before God, that we may gain a
celestial reward is my prayer in the name
of Jesus.
					SARAH McKEAN
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 29th 1875.


HOW TO SAVE YOUR EYES.

	When will those working by lamp-light
have the sense to understand the use of
shades to protect the eyes? We see persons
sitting holding their sewing or other work
before and near to a lamp, while the light
is blazing full into their eyes. It is plain
that the object that they work upon cannot
be seen with so great distinctness while the
field of their retina is already occupied by a
blaze. But they work on for hours, and
though the next morning their visual or-
gans tell of the abuse by redness and inflam-
mation, the workers are too dull to learn
the lesson of experience offered them. Cir-
cular paper shades can be obtained for a few
cents, and those not only protect the eyes
from the excess of light, but serve as a re-
flector behind the blaze, increasing the il-
lumination one-half. Besides the above
mentioned evil, there is that of the varying
quantity of light thrown into the eye by
its being suddenly and alternately directed
towards the blaze or obliquely away from it,
by which the pupil has not time to adapt
itself to the increase of glare; whereas, with
the use of the shade, the illumination would
be more uniform. The number of persons
in the community having spots light or dark,
in their field of vision, arising from injury
to the retina by the ill usages which we are
mentioning, is greater than is commonly
imagined. It must be borne in mind that
these spots are a serious step toward amau-
rosis and gutta serena, such as plunged in
darkness the latter years of the great
Milton, and many others more eminent for
their talents than their caution.


HINTS ABOUT BEAUTY.

	There is nothing more unfavorable to fe-
male beauty than late hours. Women who,
either from necessity or choice, spend most
of the day iu bed, and the night at work or
dissipation, have always a pale, faded com-
plexion, and dark-rimmed, weary eyes.
Too much sleep is almost as hurtful as too
little, and is sure to bloat the person with a 
pallid and unwholesome fat. Diet also has
a marked influence upon personal beauty.
Generous living is favorable to good looks,
as it tends to fill out and give color and
sleekness to the skin. A gross and exces-
sive indulgence, however, in eating or
drinking is fatal to the female charms, espec-
ially where there is a great tendency to 
"making flesh." Regularity of time in the 
daily repast and scientific cooking are the
best means of securing not only good health
but good looks. The appetite should never
be wasted during the intervals between
meals on pastry, confectionary, or any other
tickler of the appetite, which gratifies the
taste, but does not support the system. Ex-
ercise is, of course, essential to female
beauty. It animates the whole physical
life, quickens the circulation of the blood,
heightens the color, develops the growth,
and perfects the form of each limb and the 
entire body. It also gives beauty and grace
to every movement.


ENVY is an insult to a man's good sense,
for it is the pain we feel at the excellencies
of others.


<nwro)i,. 08="" i"xhe="" woman’s="" exponent;="" i="" 0="" i.="" gbeexe="" richards,="" ehjieei.ve="" b.="" weeds.="" editors.="" pnblie-hed="" semi-monthly,-="" in="" salt="" lake="" city,="" utah.="" tcgw:="" one="" copy="" year,="" $2.00;="" .one="" elx.months,="" (1.0="" tcrtopics="" for="" the="" prlpo="" of="" nine.,="" adertislnp="" jates;="" each="" square,="" tn="" lines="" .="" nonpareil="" ppacfy="" utpe%="" 82.oo5="" .yor="" mpntfy,="" ,$3.q0.="" a.liberal="" tlucptuji="" to="" regular="" advertisers.="" "="" 11="" a.m.to="" 5="" p="" m.="" erery="" day="" except="" sunday.="" '“address="" all="" baslncss="" communlcatlorislo="" j;="" vc="" i:="" r="" publishers="" womas'’s="" extojtet,'="" 1="" ’="" balt="" utah;="" li-'.tsi;y-)r;..,="">
											WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
							Editors.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Te[---].  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1875.


[column 1]
			EDUCATION.

	The subject of education, and of superior ed-
ucation is one much talked of and much
thought of in this day and age of the world.
Indeed there seems to be a more general diffu-
sion of education among the masses of people,
than at any previous date of which there is any
record.
	Yet there are still those who are destitute of
the knowledge of reading, writing, and the
most common branches, even in the most en-
lightened countries. Probably much of this
arises from carelessness and lack of energy,
some from willfulness and various other causes.
	But leaving the broad field of society at
large, and coming down to Utah Territory,
speaking of the people who are gathered here
from all parts of the civilized world, how much
might be said to them on this important sub-
ject. Much has been said to awaken them to
an interest in schools and all institutions o
learning. But that those who possess all the
advantages of books and good schools should
be careless, indifferent and neglectful of any-
thing so important, is a mystery.
	Abroad in the world, and even in the United
States, the people are under the impression
(most of them) that this peculiar people the
Latter-day Saints do not believe in educating
the masses, that they wish, as some foreign
powers do, to keep them in ignorance, in order
that they may be more easily governed and
controlled. They do not judge fairly in this
matter. They do not take into consideration
all the disadvantages this people have labored
under in times past to bring this barren wilder-
ness into a fruitful field; and of those who are
still laboring to extend the borders of the Ter-
ritory, building cities and towns, and peopling
them with new settlers, mostly foreigners,
who gather here from religious motives. But
that the subject of schools and education is one
of vital importance to those who have the true
interest of this people at heart, is well known
to all who are acquainted with the policy of the
course pursued in regard to schools ever since
they settled here.
	Many of the pioneers of this country, and
the first settlers here, have donated largely
for the benefit of schools, have sought by every
means in their power and all the influence they
possessed, to impress upon the minds of the
people the advantages of liberal education.
Improvements are constantly being made, and
visitors from the East who will take the time
to examine into the conditions of the schools
in this city will find they compare very favor-
ably in all respects to the institutions of learn-
ing in their respective states. The children of
this territory are not growing up in ignorance

[column 2]
neither is it the desire of President Young or
any of the authorities of the church that they
should, but instead to use all the influence and
means possible to educate them. and give them
such advantages as will prepare them for
wide spheres of usefulness. Yet there are
many people who not having them-
selves received an education, think it un-
necessary for their children to supersede them
and feel they need their help at home; but
is not this the case in every community, and
are there not as many such in proportion
in other places, as in Salt Lake? How is it in
New York and those large cities? Are they so
far in advance of Salt Lake when one takes in-
to consideration all the advantages of time,
place and surroundings? If this people, men
and women, are allowed the privileges and
rights of other American citizens, in a few
years there will need be no complaints made
against their system of education.
	Strangers do not hesitate to say that the chil-
dren here are just as intelligent as in other com-
munities, notwithstanding they are shut out
from the world, and have been born a thousand
miles from civilization. One professional gen
tleman from the East, who has been for several
years past a resident of this city, remarked that
the morals of the young men in this place
surpassed those of young men in other cities
that had come under his observation.


[column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	OUR beloved Sister Lydia Golden who died a
short time ago, deserves a tribute of praise and
respect from those who knew her real worth
and many womanly virtues. She was an affec-
tionate mother, a tender, true and loving wife,
a kind and generous friend; a woman possess-
ing great Christian charity for the faults and
failings of others; she was benevolent to the
poor and needy, warm and sympathetic to-
ward those who were in sorrow and in grief;
and a firm believer in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	It is worthy of note that Sister Golden was
the first woman who ever canned any fruit in
Utah.
					CORRESPONDENT,
	THE DESERET Silk Association met per
adjournment at the City Hall, December 1st,
1875; Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. Mrs.
Young said that B. W. Schettler had reported to
her that he had a loom which with a little la-
bor, could be brought into use; said that she
would like to have means sufficient in the so-
ciety to purchase all the cocoons that were in
the Territory.
	B.W. Schettler said that he felt very much
interested in the raising and manufacturing of
silk; spoke of the time when President Brig-
ham Young advised the brethren to send and
get some machines, said that he sent and got
two Shekard looms, he had one left the other
got burned. The machines when imported,
cost 350 dollars; he proffered to let the society
have the one at 100 dollars if after it was fixed
up and had been worked they were satisfied
with it; said that he had written to Bro. Paul
Schettler who was in California for more partic-
ulars regarding the machine, and would re-
port in one week, but proffered the society the 
use of the loom and pattern cutter.
	Brother Hanney of Provo, being present,
said that he could fix up the loom and could al-
so work it.
	Bro. C.W. Stayner read, from a report, of
the statistics of the American Silk Association
New York, Nov. 30th, 1875, the following state-
ments. "The Silk Association of America, re-

[column 2]
ports, that the importations of raw silk for Nov.
are 1,257 packages; gold value, $965,380; and for
the five months ending Nov. 26th. 4,099 packa-
ges. valued at $10,340,489.  Of the Nov. receipts
232 packages were via.  England and the conti-
nent; and 1,025 via the Overland route." He 
also spoke of the amount of money sent from
home, which could be used for the benefit of 
our own people.
	Bro. A. M. Musser said that all enterprises
at first had small beginnings for example re-
ferred to the church when first organized; spoke
of the amount of labor this would give to the 
female portion of our people, also to the children
who would be glad to gather the leaves to feed
the worms; advised the brethren to put out 
trees and help the work along; said now was 
the time to put out trees for all who felt in-
clined to take hold of this great euterprise
thought that if the society would give notice
from time to time of their doings, it would act
as a stimulus and encourage the people to go
ahead; spoke of the manufacture of silk if
made a successful business of, what a benefit
it would prove to the people, and of the 
amount of wealth it would bring this Territory;
said that he had 3000 mulbery trees that were
doing well.  Motioned that Bro. Hanney of 
Provo work the loom, left with the Superin-
tendent and President.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that Mrs. Dunyon
had presented the association with several
ounces of silk-worm-eggs which could be ov-
tained by applying to her, the proceeds to be
for the benefit of the society.
	There was also a very fine specimen of home
made silk, which was raised and reeled by
Mrs. Delinda Robinson of Farmington.  It was
pronounced by competent judges to be as good
as they had seen anywhere.
	Brother Reuben Simpson read an article to 
show the benefit from the raising and manufac-
turing of silk, which was as follows:
	"The silk interest of America is growing and 
prosperons.  There is no complaint of hard
times, no closing of mills, no strikes among
operatives so far  The silk producers do not 
ask bonuses from the government, but only that 
the protection laws be rigidly enforced. The
interest gives employment to 150,000 per[-]ons,
over half of whom are women and girls who 
received last year $4,500,000.  The capitall in-
vested in the manufacture is $14, 700,000: so far
the raw silk is imported.  This is all wrong, in-
asmuch as the raw material can be produced
here as well as in China and Japan.
Meeting adjourned until the first Monday
in January, 1876, at the City Hall at 6 p. m.
			REUBEN SIMPSON,
						Secretary pro tem.
	P. S. All are invited who would like to try
the raising of silk, or have any information to 
impart upon the subject.


RETRENCHMENT

	[An essay written for and read before the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association of
the 20th Ward.]
MY BELOVED SISTERS:
	The subject chosen for to-day is Retrench-
ment. There is a great deal more contained in
the word retrenchment, than we young folks
realize, as a general thing. There are a num-
ber of young ladies who would no doubt be
pleased to join us, but they are afraid of being
called upon to speak. Now if I understand the
object of this association, it is to retrench in
every idle thought, word and action, as far as
possible, and to strive to overcome our timidity
in rising to express our thoughts and ideas one


to another; and if we have not the language
to express our feelings in words, as we would
like, we have the privilege of writing on any
subject which occupies our minds. I believe
we have in our ward, young ladies with as
good ideas and sentiments as there are in any
ward in the city, who are willing and anxious
to learn that which is intended to instruct and
benefit them, but for want of proper study and
a little practice, have never expressed their
feelings outwardly. Some of us have an idea
that if we join this society, we must retrench
in our dress. Now I think there are many oth-
er things we can retrench in beside dress. I
will leave it to the young ladies to ask them-
selves if they can not see room for improve-
ment in our manners, in our every day life, al-
so in our reading matter. Let as many of us
as have been in the habit of reading novels,
or books that have a tendency to lead the mind
to doubt the existence of a God, or a supreme
Being who rules the heavens and the earth, do
away with the practice, and read instead, books
that lead the mind in a higher channel, and
then we will know more of the nature and be-
ing of the God we worship. And our back-
wardness, and all such obstacles in the way of
advancement would be overcome to a great ex-
tent. We would then be able to converse more
freely on subjects which at present we know
very little about. My constant prayer is that
we may live lives of Saints and be worthy of a
name and standing in the church of Christ.
						A. M. SANSOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A LITTLE CHAT ABOUT CHRISTMAS.
	As I sit thinking about Christmas, in my
mind's eye I conjure up a fanciful picture of
the past. I wonder whether any of our kind
readers would like to know how we spent
Christmas in the "long ago." I can see before
me an old rambling brown country house and
it is running over, full of little children, all ages
from the tall young lady and over-grown boy
down to infancy. In all the "living rooms"
the walls and pictures are ornamented with
the evergreens, pines and hemlock boughs
with which New England abounds: the scarlet
berries in thick clusters upon the vines and the
tiny white-pink blossoms of the lily of the val-
ley.  The house resounds with merry laughter
and shouts of glee, and from garret to cellar, in
every nook and corner, the little children hide
and cluster, as they romp and frolic in their
wild delight; playing at "blindman's buff,"
"hide and seek," and those old-fashioned
games which seemed so particularly adapted to
the cultivation of physical development and
animal spirits. Presents, neither costly or ele-
gant, perhaps, but precious indeed from the as-
sociations of friendship; and affection, and ap-
preciated with warm-hearted enthusiasm. I
can see, O so plainly, the window-panes all
crystalized over, and remember how I used to
imagine cities, palaces, and castles, and associ-
ate them with fairy tales; and outside the snow
lay so deep the roads must needs be broken
with big heavy sleds and ever so many yoke of
cattle and then the merry bells would jingle
all day long as the sleighs flew past. I will not
tell you of the delicious plum puddings and
roasted turkeys, for you will soon have them in
reality, nor the full stockings we found by our
little beds in the cold frosty mornings, but I
will tell you of the bright sunshine in our
hearts, of the gladness of the happy childhood,
of the greetings of dear friends, cousins, and
all the long list of relatives gathered around
the hearth-stone at night, by the blazing fire
of pine knots, and singing old-fashioned songs
and telling wonderful tales, to please and

[Column 2]
amuse the little folks, who were never tired or
sleepy, while they might be allowed this ex-
citing pastime.
	If it were not too sorrowful, I could tell you
of a Christmas when there were no presents,
no sunshine in the heart, when all was so chil-
lingly lonely, that even, though the day was
bright outside, and nature sparkling in her
richest robes of jeweled splendor, the tears
fell and blinded us from seeing it, when the
little ones looked in our faces and wondered
what ailed us, and we could not choke down
the sobs of anguish that rose up and almost
stifled us. But my kind readers if you know
where there is sorrow, or poverty or loneliness,
if you know of a widow or little orphans, re-
member them on this coming Christmas, and
God will remember you, and bless you, and it
will be fulfiling the dear Savior's words to
whom this day is consecrated.
	Do not let it annoy you, if your gifts are not
rich or costly but have a sweet smile, and a
bright face, and a merry Christmas for every-
body, and your hearts will be light, and you
will be happy in imparting happiness to others.
Many, very many are the pleasant pictures of
the past which present themseves to us as we
look back, and a happy childhood is one of
the fond recollections ever associated through
life with feelings of tenderness and gratitude.
	There is something about home, that touches
the stoutest heart, the most hardened repro-
bate. And those who have a pleasant home,
kind parents, loving friends and plenty, should
never forget to thank God for all these precious
gifts of His goodness.  How often in the years
to come, will these sweet reminders of hap-
py childhood, flashes of vivid recollection,
bring to us glad thoughts and for the moment
we may almost feel again the brightness of
the glorious past. God is pleased with us when
we appreciate our blessings, we should never
forget how tenderly He cares for us, and that
all the precious blessings of our lives are dis-
pensed from His bounty.
	I love to see happy children, I love to see
happy men and women, happy in doing right.
And that we may, all of us, not only have a
merry but a happy Christmas, is the real wish
of,	AUNT EM.
	S. L City, Dec. 9th 1875.


FLOWERS.

	POETRY is the beauty of ideas—distinct
from the beauty of things.
	CONVERSATION enriches the understand-
ing, but solitude is the school of genius,
	MODESTY is to merit as shades to figures
in a picture, giving it strength and beauty.
	TALENT, like beauty, to be admired,
must be unostentatious.
	HE is happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.
	GOOD temper is like a sunny day, shed-
ding brightness on everything.
	LET no one overload you with favors;
you will find it an insufferable burden.
	MOST of the shadows that cross our path
through life are caused by standing in our 
own light.
	HAPPINESS is often at our side, and we
pass her by. Misfortune is afar off and we
rush to meet her.
	SINCERITY is speaking as we think, be-
lieving as we pretend, acting as we profess,
performing as we promise, and being as we
appear to be.
	ART rejoices in her own labours, because
the energetic mind requires exercise; and
such works are the reflections of its
thoughts, its capabilities, and its virtues.
	As storm following storm, and wave suc-
ceeding wave, give additional hardness to
the shell that encloses the pearl, so do the
storms and waves of life add force to charac-
ter.
	CHARITY and fine dressing are things
very different; but if men give alms for
the same reasons that others dress fine,
only to be seen and be admired, charity is
then but like the vanity of fine clothes.
	KNOWLEDGE will not be acquired with-
out pains and application. It is troublesome,
and like deep digging for pure waters; but
when once you come to the spring, they rise
up and meet you.
	VIRTUE has this happiness—that she can
subsist on herself. And knows how to ex-
ist without admirers, partizans, and protec-
tors; want of assistance and approbation
does not only affect her, but preserves,
purifies and renders her more pefect.
	NEVER lose an opportunity of seeing
anything that is beautiful. Beauty is God's
handwriting, a wayside sacrament; welcome
it in every fair face, every fair sky, every
fair flower, and thank Him for it, the foun-
tain of loveliness, and drink it in, simply
and earnestly, with your eyes. It is a
charmed draught, a cup of blessing.
	THE TRAGIC IDEAL.—The poet can no
more write without having suffered and
thought, than the bird can fly in an exhaust-
ed air-pump. He must learn the chords of
the everlasting harp, before he can draw
sweet music from it. But he cannot play
while he is learning—he cannot write when
he is suffering—he cannot sing when his
heart is bleeding. If he attempts it he will
utter but incoherent sobs. He must wait
till that suffering has passed into memory.
There it will work, fortifying the soul with
its examples, not tearing it with thorns.
He must wait until memory has become
spiritualized, by losing every portion of
the sensuous pain, before he can transmute
it into poetry.


IT is the policy of a good old father to
make his children feel that home is the hap-
piest place in the world; and we value
this delicious home-feeling as one of the
choicest gifts a parent can bestow.

	A CANARY bird belonging to Mrs. Jona-
than J. Hill, of Northwood, recently escaped
from its cage, and flew out of doors. At-
tempes were made immediately to recap-
ture it, but it flew out of sight, and was
finally given up as lost. About three days
after, the house cat brought the bird in, and
laid it at the feet of its mistress, safe and
sound.

	READING.—Of all the amusements that
can possibly be imagined for a working
man, after daily toils, or in the intervals,
there is nothing like reading a newspaper
or a book. It calls for no bodily exertion,
of which already he has had enough, per,
haps too much. It relieves his home of
dullness and sameness. Nay, it accompa-
nies him to his next day's work, and gives
him something to think of besides the me-
chanical drudgery of his every day occupa-
tion; something he can enjoy while absent,
and look forward to with much pleasure.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

		For the EXPONENT.
	IDLENESS AND UNREST.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
		E. B. WELLS

	"The keenest pangs the wretched find,
	Are rapture to the dreary void,
	The leafless desert of the mind,
	The waste of feelings unemployed."

	To know how to dispose of the faculties
God has assigned us, is one of the wisest
purposes of our lives.
	Unfortunately it is one which many peo-
ple are a long time discerning, and others
never arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.
	That God has given us almost unlimited
powers of discrimination and judgment,
that only require being brought into proper
exercise to develop our best and truest ten-
dencies, is apparent to all intelligent men
and women.
	Strange that people should possess insa-
tiate longings for something to do, to occu-
py their time, to make them feel they are
in the right channel for usefulness, and
never be able to determine for what their
peculiar capacities, gifts, or talents qualify
them.
	There are persons who possess such a de-
gree of intuition, as directs them from the
first dawning of intelligence upon their
minds, and they seem to fully comprehend
what their vocation in life should be, and
strive to make it practicable.
	Another class of individuals are brought
into circumstances which compel them
without any volition on their own part, to
occupy positions they have neither grace
nor ability to fill.
	Such persons are only entitled to the re-
spect due to their office, position or sur-
roundings. They can confer no dignity
upon the position, carry no personal influ-
ence to aid or augment their power. They
are dependent upon the place they hold, for
the respect, which every intelligent person
should win independently for themselves.
	How many young people are there in the
world, who are wearily sighing away the
hours, waiting to know their true sphere in
life, what nature has fitted them for, and
what will bring success if they enter upon
it.
	Undecided, fearful lest they should go be-
low their standard of manliness, or womanly
character; having no definite ideas, and
waiting for some interposition of Provi-
dence to develop in them what God gave
them reason and sense to determine for
themselves.
	Instead of taking hold of every day du-
ties and making circumstances bend to them,
disciplining their minds by adapting them-
selves to the work before them, they imag-
ine it is not what they consider most appro-
priate and let time go by, opportunities for
action pass, thoughts and feelings waste,
when the very elements of development, per-
haps, are within their reach, if they would
cultivate the neglected trifles which every
day presents, while they are looking afar off,
for some manifestation of future greatness,
and the real germ which should be cher-
ished and cultivated is running to waste, or
withering away in their own minds, for
very lack of exercise. These are usually
the unhappy ones, never satisfied, pining
for something which can never be attained
without exertion on their own part.
	How often do we hear the ejaculation, "If
I only knew what to do!" fortunate indeed
for such persons as these to have some one
in whom they believe to decide for them;
but how much more noble to be able to de-
cide for themselves, trusting in God to whom

[COLUMN 2]

all should earnestly pray that they may be
directed aright.
	We are all mortals and liable to make
mistakes, but even the very mistakes we
may make, may teach us useful lessons of a
severe but practical experience, which could
never have been gained by sitting down and
pining because our lot in life was cheerless
and obscure.
	We frequently hear the remark that these
women who never seem to know what they
were created for make good wives, because
they have boundless capacity for affection,
and will love, honor and obey, looking up
with feelings of reverence, and most truly
submissive to the advice and counsel of
their lord and master.
	Granting this to be true in part, that
girls who have no definite conceptions they
were created only to form a part and parcel
of another's existence, could such women
always find the one to whom they are con-
tent to yield obedience for their guiding
star, or pilot through life, they might find
things suited to their taste, but unfortunate-
ly we are not so well arranged in this
world; and oftener, perhaps, that the right
person never makes his appearance at the
right time and place to aid us, and carry
our load for us.
	Thus woman must often bear her own
burdens, without the assistance of a part-
ner, and she ought to be fully compe-
tent by every preparation possible, and
should kind fate even be so indulgent as to
accord to her a husband who will think
and act for her, she will then be doubly-
guarded, knowing she is capable of protect-
ing herself and having still another guardian
in him. But, kind reader, this is only one
view of the picture,—there are many other
shades and touches, blendings and minglings
of tints, and some of them are fearfully
dismal, and dark—but let every woman do
for herself all that is possible, in thinking
and in developing every attribute of God-
given grace and wisdom, and they can as-
suredly help the future growth and increase
of light and truth.
	Young ladies, do not content yourselves
with nonsense, see to it that you accom-
plish something creditable, which you can
look back upon with a consciousness of hav-
ing fulfilled a duty. What if it does not
seem the most pleasant; and what if others
indulge in idleness and froth? You are so
much their superior, whether the world ac-
knowledge it or not; He who understands
the motives of all hearts will not forget it
when He makes up his jewels.
	Do not bury your talent in a napkin, but
improve upon it, and you will be honored
not alone here, but hereafter.
	In the pathway of life there are thorns
and thistles, but they are necessary for the
protection of the finer and more delicate
blossoms and perfumes; only be careful to
handle them wisely, and some of the most
practical lessons may be learned from them.
	The sincerity and earnestness of your life
will be a surer passport to happiness than
any other. Those who take hold of the most
difficult labor, usually evince the most cour-
age, and develop the highest powers.
	The unhappy and unsatisfied ones are
those who never do anything but murmur
against their circumstances. By and by
the roses will fall, the violets wither, and
the winter of their hopes will come, and
then, if they have sown no good seed—all
is over; but for those who have preserved
and treasured up the good seeds of wisdom
and knowledge, seasoned with experience,
there will be a plentiful harvest of flowers
in the future.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25, 1875.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. F. W. Gillette recently delivered a
sermon before the Michigan State Conven-
tion of Universalists.
	MRS. Rice of Wilbraham, Mass., who is
ninety-one years old, gathered bushels of
cranberries and chestnuts for sale this year;
she walks regularly twice a week, one mile
to church winter and summer; she takes
care of herself and lives alone, and in all
probability will live ten years longer.
	EMMA Brainard Ryder, M. D., who has
attained an extensive and superior reputa-
tion as a lecturer on Physiology, is residing
in New York for the winter, at the residence
of Dr. Clemence L. Losier. This talented
lady recently lectured before the students of
Elmira College and Cornell University.
	REV. Mary Thomas Clark of Dublin,
Wayne Co., Indiana, was the first woman in
the West invested with power to solemnize
marriage. Mrs. Clark has been for many
years an active worker for Woman's Suf-
frage. She is an Fngiish woman of very
superior intellect and attainments, has read
much, and possesses all the advantages of
fine culture. She is a minister of the Uni-
versalist Church.
	QUEEN Victoria followed the remains of
John Brown, father of her faithful body-
servant, to the grave. She and the Prin-
cess Beatrice returned to the house, after
the hearse had departed for the grave-yard,
and helped to comfort the bereaved widow.


SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	Messrs D. Appleton & Co. have presented
the public library at Haverhill, Mass., with
450 volumes, valued at $1,200......Naviga-
tion has been closed at Chicago, the ice is
so very heavy......Cathedral of the Holy
Cross at Boston, the largest Catholic Church
in the country, was dedicated Dec. 8th, with
great pomp and ceremony......The gambling
houses in Cincinnati have been closed by
the authorities......Revivals are very lively
in Philadelphia, under Moody and Sankey's
influence......Three men were accidentally
killed in the main building of the Centen-
nial building at Philadelphia recently......
The prize poem at the Cambridge Univer-
sity this year is to be written upon the Cen-
tennial......The number of insane people in
San Francisco is said to be 25 per cent larger
than last year......A company of negro min-
strels are meeting with great success in
their entertainments in Paris......The Chil-
dren's Aid Society in New York has dis-
tributed within the last 23 years $1,887,569.

			PERSONAL.

	William B. Astor, probably the most
wealthy citizen of America, died in New
York Nov. 24th, aged 85 years......M. Thiers
is engaged in writing his philosophical
work entitled "Man and Matter"......Rev.
Dr. Lord of Buffalo, proposes to will his
valuable library to the city of Buffalo......
Gen. V. S. Vanantwerp of the U. S. Army,
died at his daughter's residence, Prince
George's Co., Md., Dec. 8th, aged 86......
Captain Leonard Buell was fatally shot on
board his vessel on Dec. 7th......Gen. Bab-
cock has gone to Chicago to attend the court
of inquiry implicating him......Mr. B. E.
Woolf of Boston, has written a comic opera
in two acts, music and words, entitled "A
Cure for Love"......The Rev. Dr. Sprague of
Albany has presented to the New York
State library 8,000 historical and miscella-


neous pamphlets.........J.L. Drake, grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Good Tem-
plars of Illinois, died recently......Senator
Dawes, of Massachusetts, was recently kicked
by a horse and seriously injured.

			FOREIGN.

	Mr. Holman Hunt has left England for
Jerusalem, intending to remain three years
to complete a large picture on an important
subject......Joe Jefferson has just recently
buried his youngest child, a boy four years
old, in London, in the midst of his profes-
sional triumphs......The Governor of Paris
has resolved to prevent disorderly meetings
......Spain will send an iron-clad fleet to
Cuba......A mineralogical society is to be
organized in London.....Japanese advisers
state that war between Japan and Corea is
inevitable.....Cholera is interfering with
the Prince of Wales movements in India
......The assassin of the German Consul-
General, in Uraguay, has been tried by
court-martial, and shot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LET US HELP ONE ANOTHER.

	This little sentence should be written on
every heart and stamped on every memory.
It should be the golden rule practiced not
only in every household, but throughout
the world. By helping one another we not
only remove thorns from the pathway and
anxiety from the mind, but we feel a sense
of pleasure in our own mind, knowing we
are doing a duty to a fellow creature. A
helping hand, or an encouraging word, is no
loss to us, yet it is a benefit to others. Who
has not felt the power of this little sentence?
Who has not needed the encouragement
and aid of a kind friend? How soothing,
when perplexed with some task that is mys-
terious and burdensome to feel a gentle
hand on the shoulder and to hear a kind
voice whispering, "Do not feel discouraged.
I see your trouble—let me help you." What
strength is inspired, what hope created,
what sweet gratitude is felt, and the great
difficulty is dissolved as dew beneath the
sunshine. Yes, let us help one another by
endeavoring to strengthen and encourage
the weak and lifting the burden of care from
the weary and oppressed, that life may glide
smoothly on and the fount of bitterness
yield sweet waters; and He, whose willing
hand is ever ready to aid us, will reward
our humble endeavors, and every good deed
will be as "bread cast upon the waters to
return after many days," if not to us, to
those we love.


HOW TO APPRECIATE BLESSINGS.—It has
been remarked often, and very truly, that
people are incapable of appreciating any-
thing until they have been deprived of it.
This applies even to our most common bless-
ings. We do not know how refreshing and
delicious pure cold water is especially from
"the old oaken bucket that hangs in the
well," until we happen to be in some place
where the water is brackish or hard, and we
cannot obtain any fit to drink. For several
weeks during most summers, the prevail-
ing feeling is that there is nothing else in
the world so delightful as a breath of fresh
cool air. But when we have a cool comfort
able summer, we think little of it. So it is.
The poor prisoner feels that the liberty
to which the multitude outside seem so in-
different, is a boon of priceless value. The
hungry appreciate food, and the thirsty
drink.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Apple Float.—One pint of stewed apples; when
cold, sweeten and flavor to taste. Just as you
want to send to table add the beaten whites of four
eggs, lightly stirred into it.
	Quick-Baked Batter Pudding.—One pint of
milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, or better, two of
flour and two of corn starch; two eggs, juice of a
lemon. Bake on a tin plate, in hot oven, twenty
minutes.
	Indian Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk and stir
in four tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and four of
grated bread or crackers, three tablespoonfuls of
sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter as large as a
walnut, and a little salt. Bake it three hours.
	Lemon Pie.—Three eggs (save the whites of
two), juice and peel of one lemon, one cup of boil-
ing water, one tablespoonful of corn flour, one cup
of sugar. Grate the lemon and pour the boiling
water over the juice and peel; beat the eggs with
the corn flour and add to the boiling water; let it
cool before adding the sugar. Beat the whites of
the eggs with one tablespoonful of sugar, and
spread on the top of the pie.
	Breakfast Muffins.—This recipe will be valued
by housekeepers as a dainty substitute for bread
at breakfast or tea:—Two eggs well beaten, with
a cupful of sugar and a lump of butter the size of
an egg; to this add one pint of milk, with a tea-
spoonful of soda, one quart of flour and two table-
spoonfuls of cream tartar, bake in muffin rings on
top of the range, or in gem pans in a quick oven.
	Good Recipe for Doughnuts.—Take three eggs;
beat well: have your pot on the fire and your lard
all melted ready to fry the nuts. Take three ta-
blespoonfuls of the melted lard, two heaping cups
of sugar, rolled; sift about three pints of flour,
put it in the bread bowl, make a round place in
the middle of the flour to hold your eggs; when
they are beaten, pour them into the flour; now the
sugar, then the melted lard, now a half teacup of
sour cream or buttermilk, into which put one heap-
ing teaspoonful of soda; beat up the milk and soda
till it foams; pour that among all the rest; now
put in ground cinnamon to suit, or any other spice
you like best. And now the secret comes. If
you want them good, don't mix quick, but take
your time, work and squeeze the eggs; lard, sugar,
&c., backward and forward through the fingers
until it will be stiff and make dough in spite of
you. When you fry, try and keep the grease at a
regular heat, and not too hot, but fry quickly.
Make the dough about as stiff as biscuit dough.
	To Preserve the Juices of Mince Pies wile
Baking.—When the pies are ready to bake, pre-
pare a thin piece of cotton cloth, one inch wide
and long enough to reach around the rim of the
pie. Wet the cloth and put it around the pie in
such a way that it will lap a little on the plate be-
neat and a little on the crust above, covering the
part where the upper and lower crust come to-
gether.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Never go to bed with cold feet. Never try to
sleep without being perfectly certain that you will
be able to keep them warm. To lie one night
with cold feet gives such a strain to the system as
will be felt seriously, perhaps ending in a fit of
sickness.
	Cure for Cancer.—A sticking plaster is put over
the cancer, with a circular pieece cut out of the
center a little larger than the cancer, and a small
circular rim of healthy skin next to it is exposed.
Then a plaster, made of chloride of zinc, blood
root, and wheat flour, is spread on a piece of mus-
lin of the size of the circular opening, and is applied
to the cancer for twenty-four hours. On remov-
ing it the cancer will be found as though burned
into it, appearing of the color and hardness of an


old shoe, and the circular rim outside of it will ap-
pear white and parboiled as if scalded by hot
steam. The wound is now dressed, and the outside
rim soon suppurates, and the cancer comes out a
hard lump, and the place heals up. The plaster
kills the cancer, so that it sloughs out like dead
flesh, and never grows again. The application is
painful, but the pain is of comparatively brief
duration, which any one so affected cheerfully
endures. Not a case has been known of the
reappearance of the cancer where this remedy has
been applied.
	Sympathy for the Sick.—How many precious
lives have gone out prematurely, just for want of
the care they needed! Even sympathy does much
toward relieving our sick friends; sometimes more
than medicine can do, and still how many in this
wide world of ours are entirely denied that sympa-
thy which they have a right to claim. We have
seen this, we are sorry to say, without going to the
army hospitals, where it must necessarily be the
the case generally; "can't you do without it?"
should never be spoken to a feeble invalid, when
he is just beginning to have a little craving for
some nourishment which may require a few cents
and some effort to procure for him. Life itself,
sometimes, depends on such trifles--not triffles to
the helpless ones by any means. S. L.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	YOUTH is a magic lantern, which sur-
rounds us with illusions which excite pleas-
ure, surprise, and admiration, whatever be
their nature.
	IT is with little-souled people as it is with
narrow-necked bottles—the less they have
in them the more noise they make in pour-
ing out.
	SLEEP is like death's younger brother,
and so like him that you should never dare
trust him without your prayers.
	A WISE man, being asked how old he was,
replied, "I am in health;" and being asked
how rich he was, said, "I am not in debt."
	WHATEVER may be the native vigor of
the mind, she can never form any combi-
nation from few ideas, as many changes can
never be rung upon a few bells.
	CREDIT is like a looking-glass, which
when only sullied by an unwholesome 
breath, may be wiped clean again, but if
once it is cracked it is never to be repaired.
	MONEY will feed gluttony, flatter pride,
indulge voluptuousness, and gratify sensu-
ality; but, unless it be an engine in the
hands of wisdom, it will never produce any
real joy.
	SINS are like circles in the water, when a
stone is thrown into it; one produces anoth-
er. When anger was in Cain's breast, mur-
der was not far off.
	OPINION is the main thing which does
good or harm in the world. It is our false
opinions of things which ruin us.
	THERE are three degrees of folly—to cen-
sure actions from which we are not exempt;
to discover faults in others, which we are
prone to over-look in ourselves; to solicit a
useless favour.
	WE admire wit as we do the wind. When
it shakes the tree, it is fine; when it cools
the wave, it is refreshing; when it steals
over the flowers, it is enchanting; but when
it whistles through the key-hole, it is un-
pleasant.
	WRITE it on your heart that every day
is the best day in the year. No man has
learned anything rightly till he knows that
every day is Doomsday.


112  WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	"WON'T you cut open a penny for me,
father?" said a little girl when she came
home from school one day. "Cut open a
penny! What do you want me to do that
for?" asked her father. "Cause," said the
little girl, "our teacher says that in every
penny there are four farthings, and I want
to see them."
	UPON being promised a penny by his
mother if he would take a dose of caster-
oil, a bad little boy obtained the money, and
then told his parent that she might "casther oil" into the street. He will make a
humorous newspaper paragraphist one of
these days.
	"COME my little fellow," said a Washing-
ton gentleman to a youngster of 5 years,
while sitting in a parlor where a large com-
pany were assembled, "do you know me?"
"Yeth, thir?" "Who am I? Let me here?"
"You ith the man who kithed mamma
when papa was in New York." Correct.
	SAID a distinguished politician to his son.
"Look on me! I began as an Alderman, and
here I am at the top of the tree; and what
is my reward? Why, when I die, my son
will be the greatest rascal in the city." To
this the young hopeful replied:—"Yes, dad
when you die—but not till then."
	A LITTLE fellow who was at a neighbor's
house about noon the other day watched
the preparations for dinner with a great deal
of interest, but when asked to stay and eat
something, he promptly refused. "Why,
yes, Johnny, you'd better stay," said the
lady, "why can't you?" "Well, cause,"
said the little fellow, "ma said I mustn't un-
less you asked me three times." They in-
vited him twice more right off.
	NOT CATCHING.—A lady schoolteacher in
a town in California, having an inordinate
dread of the small-pox, sent home a little
girl because she said her mother was sick
and had marks on her face. The next day
the girl appeared at the school-house with
her finger in her mouth, and her little bon-
net swinging by the strings, and said to
the teacher: "Miss——, we've got a leetle
baby at our house, and mother told me to
tell you 'it isn't catchin'.'" The teacher
said she was glad, and told her pupil to
take her seat.
	PAPA will soon be here, said mamma, to her
three year old boy, "what can Georgy do to
welcome him?" and the mother glanced at
the child's playthings, which lay scattered
in wild confusion on the carpet. "Make the
room neat," replied the bright little one,
understanding the look, and at once begin-
ning to gather his toys into a basket.
"What more can we do to welcome papa?"
asked mamma, when nothing was wanting
to the neatness of the room. "Be happy to
him when he comes!" cried the dear little
fellow, jumping up and down with eager-
ness, as he watched at the window for his
father's coming. Now—as all the diction-
ary makers will testify—it is very hard to
give good definitions; but did not little
Georgy give the very substance of a wel-
come?—"Be happy to him when he comes."


A FRENCHMAN stepped into a store the
other day; and asked to see some shoes.
The affable salesman succeeded in finding a
pair to suit his customer's fancy, and the
Frenchman asked the important question,
viz, the price he was expected to pay.
	"I can let you have these for six dollars;
they are the last of the lot."


"Seex dollar!" exclaimed the Frenchman,
"You meestake me, sare. I do not veesh to
purchase ze whole estableeshmong. Vat is
ze price of zis pair?"
	"Couldn't sell them for less than six dol-
lars; and for such a well-made pair of shoes,
I can assure you they are cheap."
	"Sheep! you call zem sheep? Vy, zat is
vare strange. Zey vessel I came to Ameri-
ca in zey call zat a sheep; ze animal wiz ze
wool on his back zey call sheep, and now
you call ze shoes sheep. Oh, I shall nevare,
nevare comprehend ze Engleesh language."
Yankee Dick.


[Column 1]
			AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I willsell all Raisins and
Currant and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared
[---] giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
		S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

[Line]

					NOTICE
	The undersigned begs to inform the public, she has,
sure and safe remedies for Disentery,Diarrhea, Coughs,
Canker, Cramp, Palpitation of the Heart, Liver and Lung
cmplaints, Bruises, Itch, Yellow Jaundice Female
Weaknesses of all kinds and premature births a specialty.
Ladies accommodated with rooms at my residence during
confinement.
	NICKOLINE,Exam. Midwife. 4 1.2 blocks South
of Street Car Station, 4th East St., 2nd Ward,

[Line]

			WALLIN & TANNER,
GF.OESDECK BLOCK, SECOND SOUTH STREET.
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
			HARNESS, SADDLES,
					AND
			HORSE BLANKETS,
			CHEAPER THAN EVER.

[Line]

			F. AUERBACK & BRO
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
				[Line]
		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
			Staple and Fancy
			DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the Old Fashioned House.

[Line]

		HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the store of the U.O. 14th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our,
		goods. we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Line]

			LITTLE & ROUNDY,
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
		23, MAIN STREET,

[Line]

			MICHELL & JAMES,
		Tinners, Gas Water&Steam Fitters
			AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

[Column 2]
			MILLINERY
			--------:o:--------
			Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. Seh is now prepared to ac.
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Milinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 1
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Line]

			Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

[Line]
		O. L. ELIASON.
		DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry;
	Second South Street, Opposite Walker
		Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
		ONE YEAR.

[Line]

		IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
	TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
			GO TO
W. HARRISON'S
	One door South of Constitution Buildings,
			Main Street.

[Line]

			THE KIND OF
		BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leatherm Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			S.P. CROMPTON, Supt.

[Line]
				LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
			them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment. CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, SUPT.

[Line]

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				or 
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
				---
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
				---
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				---
				H.E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

[Line]

		H. DINWOODY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
		FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
		Feathers, Wall Paper,
			AND
		BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


[---]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1876.		No. 15.


For the EXPONENT
THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Another year has faded in the past,
	And we behold the dawning of the morn,
That ushers in the grand centen'ial year
	Since freedom in America was born.
Hail to its dawning! may its rays divine
	Illuminate each patriotic breast, 
And in the councils of the great and wise,
	May He preside Who doeth all things best.

Have we been honest with old Father Time?
	What record will he bear of us to heaven?
Is there a balance in our favor drawn,
	Of wrongs repented, or of sins forgiven?
Have we brought gladness into any heart,
	Or cheered with tender words, or acts of love
The lonely, or the sorrowing, or poor,
	If so, 'tis well! angels such deeds aprove.

Can we gaze proudly back upon the year
	And feel we have acquitted well the debt
Of moments lent us for improvement here,
	On which the sun has now forever set?
If we can carry with us on our way
	Assurances we have not lived in vain,
Have garnered in the storehouse of the mind,
	Some ripened sheaves of wisdom's choicest grain,

Then we in confidence and trust may ask,
	That God will crown our labors with success,
While we with diligence, and faith and prayer.
	Walk humbly in our paths of usefulness.
And as we enter on the new-born year,
	And look adown the stream of flowing time,
Bring to our aid experience of the past
	Inspiring us to efforts more sublime.
							- EMILE. 
							E. B. Wells


BE NATURAL.
	At the foundation of all individual educa-
tion there should be indelibly impressed up-
on every mind, two great fundamental prin-
ciples, know thyself and be thyself, which if
properly understood, and correctly carried
out, will prove beneficial in the advance-
ment of true wisdom. We should not ex-
pect to shine by the light reflected from
others, nor will we make better impressions
by imitating those we may admire. We
never appear to so good an advantage, as
when we are really natural, and act our-
selves. We all have gifts from God, which
It is our duty, and should be a pleasure, to
cultivate and improve by all the means
within our reach, and all to which it is pos-
sible to attain.
	We may all think we understand our own
organization, but on close investigation we
are surprised to find we are possessed of
gifts which we never thought were ours, con-
sequently we had never cultivated or im-
proved them.
	There have been frivolous laws of eti-
quette introduced, which were intended to
improve society, and individuals, and many
persons have studied them, thinking to pass
as ladies and gentlemen by assuming
the outward appearance and manners, al-
though destitute of those sterling qualities
which characterize the genuine article; but
these are usually the foolish and ignorant,
for those who are really refined and intelli-
gent by nature, although they may not have
had the advantages of society and educa-
tion, would scorn to imitate others. It
would be well for all to act on natural tal-
ents, and with social feelings, and not de-
pend on studied forms of etiquette, which
are too often the mask of a depraved men-
tal capacity or vitiated taste. Be not like


the parrot trying to imitate the thoughtless
sounds of the passers by. It is said in Holy
writ, "Man know thyself," and I think it
will take a great deal of study and diligent
application, for us to fathom the depths of
our own capacities.
AMELIA.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 4, 1875.


HELP TO CORRECT IT.
	Irregular attendance is perhaps the most
serious obstacle in the way of our success
in the country, and is the direct and legiti-
mate parent of more than one-half the dis-
advantage under which we labor. Its dire-
ful effects are felt in a majority of the
country schools. It is impossible to prop-
erly grade or classify a school where it ex-
ists. It imposes upon the teacher much ex-
tra labor to interest the irregular pupils, and
assist them to keep up with their classes.
It causes an abatement of interest in those
who do attend regularly and robs them of
their rights in the school. It prevents the
adoption and successful prosecution of any
systematic plan of government and instruc-
tion, and demoralizes the affairs of a school
generally.
	Parents and guardians can do very much
to help correct this evil and avoid the con-
sequence of it.—American Journal of Edu-
cation.


TRUE HAPPINESS.
	It is a mistaken idea entertained that hap-
piness is obtained only by wealth. Some
think if they were rich they would have
nothing to do and could lead an idle life.
But there are none who enjoy life less than
those who are idle. Those who are obliged
to work hard all day enjoy their few mo-
ments of rest so much that they think a
life spent in such a way would be delight-
ful. But they would think different if they
were to have a fair trial, for one who is nev-
er busy cannot enjoy rest, because rest im-
plies relief from previous labor. There are
many things that occur in the busy scene of
life to contribute sorrow and trouble to the
rich, as well as to the poor. It is generally
in the homes of the people of moderate
means that happiness is found. The high-
est riches, however, do not consist of
princely incomes. There is greater wealth
than this; it consists of an honest cheerful
heart, a good constitution, a contented dis-
position and clear conscience. Good bones
are better than gold. Tough sinews better
than silver. The man is truly rich and hap-
py who has a noble soul, generous impulses
and moral courage enough to withstand
the temptations that he comes in contact
with in his daily life, and who lives so as to
merit the respect and friendship of those
associated with him. If a desire to speak
well of others was universal the world
would become a comparative paradise. So
many enmities and heart-burnings flow
from this source. Envy, jealousy and the
malignant spirit of evil, when they find
vent by the lips, go forth on their missions
like foul fiends, to mar the happiness and
reputation of others. By endeavoring to
make others happy we secure happiness to
ourselves.		SOPHRONIA SPENCER.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	GEORGE ELLIOT'S new novel entitled
"Daniel Deronda," is spoken of as portray-
ing accurately English life of to-day, and
to deal in the most graceful and entertain-
ing manner with the highest sphere of
modern society.

	A PETITION is being extensively circula-
ted at the capitol, entitled, "A Woman's
Solemn Protest to the members of the forty-
fifth Congress," which opposes the grant-
ing of aid to the Centennial, because the
doors of the palace have been shut in the
faces of American Women, and also because
the negro race has been ignored.—Wo-
man's Journal."

	A TREMENDOUS explosion occurred at
Swaithe Main colliery, near Barnsley, West
Riding, Yorkshire England, on the 6th of
Dec. Over 200 lives were lost. The col-
liery is owned by Messrs. Mitchell & Co.
and is one of the largest in the southern part
of Yorkshire. The works extended for
miles, and were entirely worked by safety
lamps, under the most rigid discipline
and had been considered perfectly safe.

	AN ARTICLE by Anna C. Brackett read
before the Third Woman's Congress at Syr-
acuse, N. Y. Oct. 14, 1875, entitled "Organ-
ization as related to civilization," is in our
opinion worthy the attention of all people
men or women who desire to advance the
true interests of humanity. She certainly
handles the subject in a masterly manner.
This lady says organization carried to its
uttermost perfection, is the type and fruit
of all civilization. That the individual los-
es nothing by yielding his will to the good
of the whole, he is served in turn by evrey
individual of the organization of which he
is a member, Organization owes its pow-
er to the survey of time the utilization of
every energy. This lady writes with such
clearness and power that all may under-
stand, and she deserves the highest com-
mendation from those who are enlisted or
interested in seeking the elevation of wo-
man.


The first finger ring.—An amusing
myth is told of the origin of the finger
ring. When Jove released Prometheus
from the bonds by which he had been con-
fined, he condemned him as a sort of pen-
ance—perhaps somewhat after the fashion
of a modern ticket-of-leave—to wear upon
his finger, as a ring, a link of the iron chain
that had bound him to the Caucasian rock
itself. In this way, so the fable goes, the
custom of the finger ring originated. There
is every reason to believe that this use of
the engraved stone began with the Greeks,
and from them was copied by their servile
imitators, the Romans. It is every way a
convenient and natural one; and our grand-
fathers' custom of wearing their seals at
the fob, as it was called, or hanging from
the side-pocket, was a recurrence to old As-
syrian usages, which long held its ground.


THOSE who live on the failings of their
neighbors will never die of starvation.


114  WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operativd Retrenchment Associations
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms Saturday Dec. 11, 1875, was one of
special interest and importance. After the
reading of minutes of the previous meet-
ing and from the junior societies, President
Mrs. M. I. Horne arose and expressed her
pleasure in the improvement manifested by
the minutes from the different societies of
the young ladies. After making some ex-
cellent remarks to the elder sisters as well
as the younger, she called upon those sis-
ters who had been visiting the different set-
tlements north and south to address the
meeting. Accordingly Mrs. E. Davis arose
and gave a brief account of her visit through
Cache, Malad, Morgan and Summit coun-
ties; said she had passed the time pleasantly
and had been kindly treated everywhere,
and that she had held in all fifty-three meet
ings.  She said that everywhere she had
advised and encouraged the sisters to do
something towards representing Utah at
the Centennial.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney also gave an account
of her trip south, she had visited many set-
tlements in Sanpete and Sevier counties; al-
so Utah, Millard, Beaver, Iron and Wash-
ington counties, had held about forty-five
meetings, and had been well received and
entertained everywhere. A spirit of refor-
mation was among the people, and the de-
sire to awake and commence anew, was the
spirit of the people almost universally.
Coun. Miss E. R. Snow then made a few
spirited remarks in regard to the improve-
ment of the young ladies, and also spoke
earnestly of the interest all should feel to
have the women of Utah well represented
at the centennial. Miss Rebecca Manning
was proposed and accepted as Assistant Sec-
tary of the meeting.
MISS AMY ADAMS,
Secretary.


AN ESSAY WRITTEN FOR AND READ BE-
FORE THE RICHMOND RETRENCHMENT
SOCIETY, FEB. 1st, 1875.

	As this is our chosen subject I will make
an effort to write a few of my thoughts on
the same, though I fear they will be very
inefficiently expressed. Retrenchment, as
it is now introduced, teaches some of the
most exalting and self improving principles
that can be presented for our consideration.
These associations embrace all that is good,
pure and noble, and eschew all that is evil,
vile and degrading. If we heed their teach-
ings we will cultivate all talents implanted
in our natures, exert every faculty to be-
come useful to all by whom we are surround-
ed. Though it is beyond our finite under-
standings to imagine the great blessings to
be gained by availing ourselves of every
opportunity to do good, and to live the lives
of Saints, but are we not old enough, and
is it not time we possessed wisdom sufficient
to enable us to partially comprehend our
mission here on the earth? I am well aware<will,culivate, all="" talents="" implanted="" rjn.piir-="" natures,="" .exert="" every="" facuuy'.jtol-be-="" comp="" useful="" to="" by="" ny.he'nye="" pteutfoijihd-;="" r'9fhi;t="" jlftugh="" it="" is="" beyond,="" our="" ih'ntte'.unilqr-="" utandings="" imagine.thegrbat="" blessings="" ;="" be.,="" gained="" availing,ourselves="" of="" opportunity="" tp="" dojgppdjvnno’uvg'.tlfves!="" jr<of="" saintsbut="" ,ayoryenot="" old="" enough'j'iand="" -is;it="" not="" timewb.j=""><i earth="" lamyf.elljhwprei="" elithat="" in="" tpishighly="" enlightened="" agor,yeri="" %qpd’s="" .o.wn="" purq="" religion.is="" greatly.ignored="" by,="" many="" <vho="" .are,="" too.="" thoughtl'e%:="" (tp="" realize="" inwhat.tbq="" end="" of="" ,sucillllingiigqdrapcd="" will="" akbe,="" ancf="" also="" .thatfjtlipy="" who,="" try="" tpb,’right="" lie.seif.dppying="" are="" often’="" ridjbuled="" ‘="" and="" 5umade="" sport="" o="" accusecbof.makirig,="" false.pre-="" tences,="" other="" things="" wtiicli="" apt="" to="" wound="" thcheart,="" yet="" it="" is="" far="" better="" j’do'bear="" patiently,="" the.-taunts="" of,frail,human-="" ity,?="" than="" do="" .have="" the="" heavenly="" hosts="" gazing="" with="" frowning="" disapproval="" upon="" us;="" and'="" if="" conscience="" i?="" not="" entirely="" hardened="" i$="" i="" smite="" us="" for="" neglect="" duty;="" what="" isdhere<ln-this‘="" turbulent="" worldmoro="" pain-="" i.="" ful="" harder="" flee="" from="" a="" weighed="" jj="" own="" sin="" andremorse?="" all="" thp="" world="" may="" beliovo="" ourtruth,="" the'inward="" monitor="" condemns="" ub,="" -liken="" —iho="" worm="" gnawingnt="" our="" very="" hearts,="" goyhereve="" will,="" is.="" still="" there,="" ever="" witvb'cf;="" save'="" wp1="" diri="" jrib'lo="" ourselves="" '.before="" jsehvsnrihd="" beghfriitew;="" au<="" jlllti4ro="" little="" has="" been="" &id="" o'f'dress="" 'tllere,="" were'="" ether’="" inure,="" nd.pded,="" claimed="" bur'="" first="" attention;1="" bbtrench="" folly="" ignorance.="" were="" wo="" db="" this="" wlivrb="" would="" limits="" be?="" knowledge="" boundless,="" we="" to;="" study="" life-="" time="" grphtesfc="" zeal,="" could="" :="" sit="" dowri="" say,'11="" ‘have="" 1="" earnbd="" am="" perfect.”="" these="" societies="" aie="" thight'to="" brigagedii1="" theusefril="" risavelf="" as="" theelegant="" pursuits="" df!life.="" thiwwo="" )="" must="" dtecontiriud-bvery="" hablb-which':<lofes="" 'hbt="" tfehd="" tb'hovate="" thmirid;'="" h6t="" avofdirig="" 'simlliity="" ’="" mdn'ndr;="" whieli="" often="" i’so="" charming.="" <kndw="" that="" every="" mb-="" 'merit°is="" biken="" f="" td="" bi-riaraent="" the--'person,="" there="" no="" tiriie’tb'spend="" lri="" studylng="">
that in this highly enlightened age even
God's own pure religion is greatly ignored
by many who are too thoughtless to realize
what the end of such willing ignorance will
be, and also that they who try to do right
and be self-denying are often ridiculed and
made sport of, accused of making false pre-
tences, and many other things which are
apt to wound the heart, yet it is far better
to bear patiently the taunts of frail human-
ity than to have the heavenly hosts gazing
with frowning disapproval upon us; and if
the conscience is not entirely hardened it
will smite us for neglect of duty; and what
is there in this turbulent world more pain-
ful and harder to flee from than a conscience
weighed down with sin and remorse? All
the world may believe in our truth, yet if
the inward monitor condemns us, it is like
the worm gnawing at our very hearts, and 
go where we will it is still there, and ever
will be, save we humble ourselves before
Heaven and begin anew.
	Hitherto very little has been said of dress
as there were other things more needed,
and claimed our first attention. Retrench
from folly and ignorance. Were we to do this
where would the limits be? Knowledge is
boundless, and if we were to study a life-
time with the greatest of zeal, we could not
sit down and say, "I have learned all and
am perfect." In these societies we are
taught to engage in the useful as well as
the elegant pursuits of life. To do this we
must discontinue every habit which does
not tend to elevate the mind; not avoiding
simplicity of manner, which is often so
charming. We all know that if every mo-
ment is taken to ornament the person,
there is no time to spend in studying useful
books or learning from observation; besides
it injures the health, enfeebles the mind, to
live in such constant excitement of dress
and fashion. Happiness and contentment
are banished, and in their stead dwell envy
and covetousness. This is why there is sin
in excessive love of dress. It destroys all
unity, all peaceful relations that should ex-
ist between man and man. The aristocracy
scorn the middle classes, and they in turn,
while striving to become equal, are willing
to crush those of inferior fortunes. Does
the votary of vashion think of going out for 
pure enjoyment? Far from it; every nerve
is exerted to try and surpass all who may
be seen, and the excitement becomes so in-
tense, that desparate means are often re-
sorted to. Many a good man, I am satis-
fied, has gone to a premature grave, or been
driven to end his own life, by the unlimited
extravagance of his wife, or daughters.
Yet men are far from being blameless, and
if they had shown more wisdom in choosing
their lady associates, and not been partial
to the butterflies of the day, women would
have been less fond of dress. They have
proved to a great extent that they have no
taste for the real and true-hearted woman
though they might if choosing a life part-
ner, but for the shorter and less important
periods of time, the enjoyment of which is
as pleasant to woman as to man, they will
select the gaily dressed belle, the studied
coquette, no matter whether she possesses
a heart or not if she is stylish, elegantly
attired, and will  only smile, her cold, soul-
less smile, then man thinks himself tri-
umphant. He will not deign to notice the
neatly dressed and unpresuming maiden,
but after  has grown weary of, or been
rejected by the fair siren, he will humbly
sue for the hand of one he deemed unfit to
be his companion in the gay scenes of sin-
gle life. Is it any wonder then, that wo-
man, with all her frailties, seeks to make
herself suited to the exquiste though ex-
travagant ideas of the sterner sex. Though
there are some women, I am proud to say,
who will show them that they must prize
true worth; not outward display. I know
there are also many noble and good men,
but I am tired of hearing some rave of our
extravagance.
				MARY STUART.


CHANCE happens to all, but to turn chance
to account is the gift of few.


WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE 
FIRST WARD RETRNCHMENT ASSOCIATION.
	My dear young sisters I feel it my duty
to say a few words to you to encourage you
in the good work in which you are engaged.
Do you know you are some of the noblest
spirits that have been kept back till these
LAST DAYS so that you might come through
the holy priesthood of God and pure and
holy parents. My dear young sisters you
have come upon the earth at this time to
do a great and mighty work, to help build
up the church and kingdom of God; you
have not only to do all the good you can to
each other, here in your homes and among
your companions, but if you have friends
and relations in the country from which you
came, you must, when writing to them, tell
them of the goodness of God to you, and
what you know about your religion; make
them feel good and you may be the means
of bringing them into the church if not al-
ready in; and then there are a great many
that have left this sphere of action and
gone behind the veil without having the
privilege of embracing the everlasting gos
pel that you have embraced, there is a
work to be done for them, that they cannot
do for themselves; therefore it is for you to
do it for them, and dear sisters pray to the
Lord to give you His holy spirit at all times,
so that you may be able to do all that is re-
quired of you, for where there is much giv-
en there is also much required. Therefore
my sisters be kind and obliging to your
parents, brothers, sisters and companions,
and all you have anything to do with: be
honest and upright in all your dealings with
each other; never tell an untruth to hide a
fault; remember God sees and hears all you
do and say. When you leave your beds in
the morning, never commence your work
without praying for the spirit of God to lead
and guide you through the day, and if you
do this every day, you will have strength
to accomplish all that is required of you.
At the close of each day examine yourselves
and see wherein you could have done bet-
ter; and if you see anything that you have
done wrong do not do the same again; by
doing this you will save yourselves day by
day; prepare yourselves to live, and by so
doing, you will prepare yourselves to die;
you do not know the day or the hour you
may be called to lay your bodies down in
the grave; therefore live so that when call-
ed you may be ready and it may be said of
you "well done good and faithful servant,
enter into the joy of your Lord". My dear
young sisters I pray this may be your happy
lot, in the name of Jesus Christ, your Re-
deemer, Amen.
MATILDA EMILY WAGSTAFF.


GAYETY.—There are two kinds of gay-
ety; the one arises from want of heart, be-
ing touched by no pity, sympathizing with
no pain, even of its own causing; it shines
and glitters like a frostbound river in the
gleaming sun. The other springs from ex-
cess of heart—that is, from a heart over-
flowing with kindness toward all men, and
all things; and suffering under no superadd-
ed grief, it is light from the happiness which
it causes, from the happiness which it sees.
This may be compared to the same river,
sparkling and smiling under the sun of
summer, and runing on to give fertility and
increase to all within, and even to many
beyond, its reach.


PRIDE seems to be quite equally distribu-
ted; the man who owns the carriage, and
the man who drives it, seem to have it just
alike.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			115


For the EXPONENT.
ON BURNING SOME OLD AND
CHOICE LETTERS.
The fire burns! the funeral pyre is raised,
I take these letters, which my soul has praised—
Tablets of sentiments both good and rare.
Emblems of friendship that two hearts did share.
A long tried friendship which no test could shake,
Absence of years, this bond could never break;
And more than all, the difference of creed,
Our compact was to differ—'twas agreed—
The heart that did these letters all decree,
The hand that made them palpable to me
Were those I found in all things true and good,
And proved through years, my soul's accepted food;
They were indeed a link to bind the past,
A chain, whose clasp they are to hold it fast!
Yes they have held [-]t with increasing charm,
Which e'en the scorn of creed could not disarm.
Yea Verily, the key has not been found
That could unlock the cypher it has bound.
But now this ordeal is my own decree,
For never more the writer shall I see!
But still their essence will remain to be
A perfumed censer ever sway'd by me
Through coming years I shall inhale it still,
A perfume ever summoned by my will.
Thought will be busy when the form is gone
Immortalized by memory alone.
Yet do I tremble! my unwilling hand
Almost rejects the ordeal I command
'Tis right–those little words should form for me
A code—eternal as the sun I see;
Upon the embers, by my hand they lie,
Adieu loved letters! yes—good-bye, good bye,
Passing away into some other form,
In some sweet future will they not be born
Again for me? to whom they did belong
And sing to me again their own sweet song?
Why should I be sceptical? for in God's rest
Naught will be wanting that will make us blest.
Then no more let me languish, no more sigh,
Adieu loved letters! Yes—good bye—good bye.
Salt Lake City.
HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
GOOD TASTE.
	Taste is that power of the mind which
enables us to discern beauty, excellence, and
fitness, and to take pleasure in them. There
are few who would willingly admit them-
selves to be deficient in this respect, and
many would prefer to be accused of a dere-
liction in duty than a violation in dress, man-
ners, or conduct of the principles of good
taste. Yet few take the trouble of study-
ing out these principles, and of making
themselves familiar with the grounds upon
which they rest. Some indeed contend that
the very great variety of taste that exists in
the world, proves that there is no standard
of true beauty, and no principles, therefore,
by which we may designate taste as good
or bad. But such an argument would ap-
ply with equal force to a standard of truth
or right. Prejudice will often foster belief
in absurdities, and the conscience may be
so warped as to mistake right for wrong;
but no one would from this attempt to prove
that there is no standard by which to judge
of the character of action.
	In every exercise of taste the judgment
is brought into operation, and decides as to
the existence of beauty or excellence, har-
mony or fitness. As therefore the judg-
ment is variously developed in different
persons, so also will be the taste, and the
standard of the one will include that of the
other.
	The appreciation of beauty, harmony, or
fitness, implies two things: a belief in some
excellence or perfection in the object, and a
sense of pleasure. If the excellence that
we think we perceive is really there, the
feeling of pleasure is justifiable, and our
taste is correct. If our judgment be erro-
neous, and the excellence fancied, not real,
then our taste is at fault. The beauties of
nature which all admire, are not only real,

[Column 2]
but are found to open up increasing delight,
as the mind by culture is better able to ap-
preciate them. So the finest works of art
give pleasure proportioned to the ability of
the mind to fasten upon the elements of
beauty they contain. Even where objects
appear beautiful at first sight, and we can-
not define the reason, though we enjoy the
emotion, we yet have cause to believe that
it is rather owing to our want of discern-
ment than to any deficiency of real beauty
in the objects themselves. It frequently
happens that the instinctive feeling of
beauty, at first experienced without a rea-
son, is followed in the reflective mind by a
discovery of some excellence before unno-
ticed. Thus a perfectly well-bred person
always produces pleasurable emotions in
those whom he meets. Without analyzing
or reasoning, they feel their taste gratified,
and their interest enlisted. But subsequent
reflection convinces them that the source
of their pleasure consists in the outwaad
expression of amiable qualities of mind.
	Good taste in dress, in like manner, is the
result and the outward sign of a good judg-
ment in regard to comfort, convenience,
consistency of expense, harmony of colors,
and general suitability. It was once said of
a lady, by one who was a good judge in such
matters, that she was attired in such perfect
taste that he could not remember anything
she had on. The effect of the whole cos-
tume would have been rendered less agree-
able, if any of its parts had been striking
or prominent. Similar principles apply to
good taste in other directions. As polite-
ness is the outward sign of amiability, so
good taste is the outward sign of a correct
and cultivated judgment. In whatever is
made for an end, the adaptation of all its
parts to that end, is a chief element of
beauty and good taste, and whatever de-
feats that end in any measure is in so far a
deformity. For example, in furnishing a
dwelling, the chief end is supposed to be
the comfort and welfare of the occupants.
But when we see two-thirds of the whole
expense laid out in the costly and luxurious
furniture and decorations of the drawing-
room, while that part of the house where
the family chiefly resides presents a pinched
and mean appearance, we may safely assert
that the end is frustrated, the judgment
that guided the management was defective,
and the principles of good taste violated.
	Whoever desires, then, to possess and to
exhibit, in dress, manners, conversation and
actions, a thoroughly good taste, will do
well to study its principles, to cultivate the
judgment, and to adapt means carefully and
wisely to the ends in view. Good taste is
not, as some suppose, a mere surface matter;
its principles, as we have seen, lie deep
down in the foundation of things; and those
who would rejoice in its sweet fruits and
beauteous flowers, must not content them-
selves with merely watering the leaves,
but must dig deep down to the roots, and
give them due sustenance.
SELECTED.


FLORAL HINTS.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, DEC. 13, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	To the thousand household cares add
those of a garden of many flowers and one
finds a plenty of employment "from rosy
morn till dewy eve"—at the approach of
frost our verbenas, petunias, china pinks,
carnations and many others were removed to
the house for winter blooming, and the ten-
der acacias and other trees and shrubs
wrapped and tied up for protection from


frost, which has finally come and destroyed
the tender plants and flowers—yet sparing
us awhile longer the rosy chrysanthemums.
petunias, marigolds, malveas, scabious, mig-
nonette, and some others are still in bloom
outdoors.
	"The Glory of Rosamine" is an evergreen
here and one of the most magnificent of
roses, the bush is large and tall and almost
a runner with large half-double dark velvety
leaved blossoms in large clusters—and ever
blooming. I think it will stand the winter
at Salt Lake. The Lamarque, is one of the
finest of white tree roses—ever-blooming and
a fast growing runner, and delightfully fra-
grant, which with the "John Hopper" a
dark pink and profuse bloomer, seem per-
fectly hardy here, and great favorites with
everyone. When rose bushes become un-
healthy and leaves change to white, and
cease growing, use a compound of fine char-
coal soot from the stove pipe and fine rotted
manure, and carefully fork it in about the
roots of the bushes. There is a plant, na-
tive here the Daura, most magnificent in
bloom. In August, I saw one of these plants
that occupied a circular space of eight feet;
I counted 75 blossoms in bloom at the time.
White fragrant chalice-shaped, about six in-
ches long and five inches across the outer
face of the flower. I never saw a more
grand looking plant and would recommend
it to every florist to cultivate one plant at
least.
	I must not omit to tell you that Willie
has had full access to the flower garden all
the season, he loves and admires the flow-
ers and goes around often and smells of
them but has been taught to respect them
and so far, 'tho' he wears his first breeches,'
has not made a breach of trust or injured
either flowers or plants. Even small child-
ren may be taught to love and respect the
beautiful flowers, and should be allowed to
go among them, and they will grow up re-
fined and loving under the genial loveli-
ness of the fairest of created things.
FLORA.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	JULIUS Caesar, when he founded the first
public library in Rome, with the books of
which he had plundered the conquered
provinces—for those renowned robbers, the
Romans, made books as well as pictures and
statues the object of pillage—appointed
Varro as his librarian, the most learned
man of his time, whom Dante calls the third
great light of Rome, reckoning him in the
illustrious list after Virgil and Cicero—
Varro, a republican, a follower of Pompey,
and an honest man, who flattered nobody,
not even the Dictator. Varro also assisted
Augustus with his advice when he founded
two public libraries in the metropolis of his
empire.

	LOVE-LETTERS.—Love-letters! There are
women whom the world call single who are
as truly wedded to a tear-stained package
as if it really were the being that it repre-
sents to them—who lived in the old sweet
time these missives once belonged to, and
who will keep their hearts apart from the
dull reality that makes up their present
world. Years may have passed, and noth-
ing may have remained the same, save the
dear dream that never knew reality; yet,
held in their love life by their fragile pa-
per bond, they dwell in that fair unsubtan-
tial spring time, while antumn fades, and
winter cold reigns abroad in all the world.


116				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

L. GREEN RICHARDS, } Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
[---], $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 1, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

	ANOTHER YEAR.

	Of all the feats that time and change have
wrought during the year of 1875, great disap-
pointments are evidently sustained in some
localities that mightier changes have not taken
place.
	Columbia's Centennial year has dawned, and
like the rest of the world the nation still
moves. But neither the Republican nor the
Democratic party has succeeded in altogether
eclipsing the other. The women have neither
gained their cause nor been silenced. Indian
affairs are still in a comparatively unsettled
condition; and the Mormon problem is not yet
solved.
	No, notwithstanding the ceaseless efforts and
untiring zeal of the Mormon-haters to bring
about their purposes in regard to the latter
question, Polygamy, the "flagrant crime,"
"unnatural vice," as the chief executive of the
nation has called it, has not been "banished
from the land," as he would have it! A worse
calamity upon the nation, however, is, that
they still close their eyes and harden their
hearts against justice and humanity in their
untoward persecutions of a peaceful and much
injured people.
	Why men considering themselves sane and
reasonable should wish and seek for thousands
of honest, virtue-loving women in Utah to be
deprived of good, honorable husbands, and
cast upon the world like other tens of thou-
sands elsewhere, without lawful protectors—
would seem a mystery did we not realize that
such desires and designs are the results of
"blind unbelief" which is "sure to err." Even
after the hand of God (to them, the persecutors
of the Saints. His unseen hand) has been so
repeatedly made manifest in the deliverance of
His servants from the power of their enemies,
the fruitless attempts of the adversary to over-
throw the work of the Lord in the latter days
are unabated.
	But what will the calumny, special law mak-
ing or law breaking of short-sighted officials
amount to, if the Saints will but prove faithful
to the trust reposed in them? The same God
lives and reigns to-day, by whose power prison
doors were opened and prison walls fell in the
deliverance of His apostles anciently. Surely
He is able to do as great things for His faithful
followers now as He has done formerly, should
necessity demand it. It is well worth the
while of every Latter-day Saint, old and young,
to live near the Lord, to prove a friend to Him
and to His cause, that He may justly offer in
return that assistance which will surely be
needed when difficulties arise. We see to-day
how the opening of the New Year finds us,
but who shall tell what its close may bring?

[COLUMN 2]
	If Congress would establish a law ab ishing
profanity, drunkenness, the social evil in all
its forms, and foeticide, that would be doing
something worth their hire. Then, having
cured the land of its actual curses, they might
turn to Utah to investigate affairs with some
degree of reason. Then, if they could suggest
any method superior to polygamy, by which
every worthy woman might become the lawful
wife of a worthy man, bring forth and rear her
children in honor and purity, calling them by
their father's name—a method by which our
cities might be kept clear of outcasts and un-
fortunates, as they now are, there would be
some justice and consistency in their forebidding
the practice of plural marriage.
	Until they do this, it would seem but just if
every man who would by force of law and au-
thority compel these women to live singly,
deprived of the dearest and sweetest ties of
natural affection, were doomed to a like fate—
a life of celibacy. But the Lord is able to deal
with them as seemeth best in His own sight,
without suggestions on our part. And the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints may be content
to wait His time, while with united faith,
prayers and works they strengthen the hearts
and hands of the noble men of God, who prove
themselves worthy each of many faithful
wives.
	If as great things have not been accomplished
in the year just past as many could desire to
have seen, be it remembered that the old year
never dies until the new one is prepared to step
forward and fill the vacancy. And though the
old year has been very good, there is always a
possibility of improving; may the year now
young prove one of boundless blessings to those
who desire good for all.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	ON CHRISTMAS Day at the theatre, for a mati-
nee, the favorite fancy play, "Cherry and Fair
Star," was presented to a house crowded almost
exclusively with Juveniles, and again in the
evening to a tolerably good-sized audience.
Monday and Tuesday evenings the same play
was repeated.
	WE OFTEN receive articles for publication
with fictitious names attached, without the
writer's real signature; we have several times
expressed ourselves on this subject, plainly
stating that all articles of this kind must be
accompanied with the real name of the writer.
We have now several articles laid over for this
reason. Several items are also crowded out of
this issue for want of space.
	ON SUNDAY evening, Dec. 26, 1875, the Han-
del and Hadyn Society of this city gave an
entertainment at the Theatre of the Oratorio of
the Messiah. The house was tolerably well
filled, and, considering most of the singers
were amateurs, it was decidedly a success.
	In consequence of the indisposition of Mrs.
E. C. Haydon, one of the most talented singers,
the rendering was not complete, as all her solos
had to be omitted; but Mrs. Careless' rendering
of her solos was exquisitely perfect.
	A MEETING of the Presidents, Committee,
etc., for the representation of Utah at the Na-
tional Centennial, was held at the office of
Capt. H. C. Goodspeed, Tuesday, Dec. 28, at
eleven a. m. In consequence of some misun-
derstanding in regard to notice of the time of
meeting being given, only a few of the com-
mittee were present; of the gentlemen Hon.
Wm. Jennings, H. C. Goodspeed and Mr. Pres-
cott. Some definite conclusions in regard to
time at which all articles must be in readiness
were arranged, and the flag to represent the


Territory was decided upon. Each state or ter-
ritory will have its own flag representing its
respective coat of arms. Utah will be repre-
sented by the beehive. Capt. Goodspeed very
kindly proffered the ladies the use of his office
to hold their separate meetings, whenever they
should have business to transact. Some sug-
gestions were made in regard to raising funds
to defray the necessary expenditure, but no
positive decision arrived at. Capt. Goodspeed
suggested the idea of a Ladies' Tea-party as
having been very practicable in some localities.


CIRCULAR.
TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, RETRENCHMENT
ASSOCIATIONS, AND THE WOMEN OF 
UTAH GENERALLY.
	We, the undersigned, members of the Wo-
men's Centennial Executive Committee for
Utah, respectfully solicit your active and ener-
getic co-operation in preparing for the ap-
proaching National Centennial, by furnishing
creditable specimens of all useful and orna-
mental Home Industries of women's work
from a necktie artificial flower, and the most
delicate embroidery, to a carpet; also natural
curiosities of our own collecting; and, as soon
as practicable, have them sent either to the
President of the Lion House, or the Treasurer,
opposite the Lion House, and adjoining the
Historian's office, Salt Lake City.
	Our specimens must be forwarded to Phila-
delphia by the first of March, which affords us
very little time, but with energy, promptitude
and united effort, much can be speedily accom-
plished.
	To expedite the work, we suggest that Com-
mittees be appointed forthwith in each Ward
of our cities, and in each Settlement in the
Territory, whose business shall be to collect
specimens all ready made—to search out wo-
men of artistic skill, and stimulate them to as-
sist; and where willing talent and ability are
found, with insufficient means to apply them,
we recommend that the necessary material be
provided, either by donation or otherwise, and
the latent will brought into exercise for the ob-
ject in view.
	Every article furnished must be distinctly
labeled with the name and place of residence of
its proprietor; and, inasmuch as persons from
other countries might wish to purchase Utah's
specimens, those articles which the owners are
willing to dispose of, should have the prices
plainly specified; all others are to be returned,
after the close of the exhibition.
MISS ELIZA R. SNOW, President.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, Treasurer.
COMMITTEE.
DR. MARY H. BARKER,
MRS. FLLEN G. HAYDON.
PRISCILLA M. STAINES,
MARY I. HORNE,
BYRON GROO.
H. C. GOODSPEED,
ELIZABETH DAVIS.
ELIZABETH HOWARD,
ZINA D. YOUNG,
SARAH M. KIMBALL.


To produce good conversation, earnest
thought and general knowledge is requisite,
and a thoroughly excellent conversational-
ist may be considered a wise man or woman.
Cultivate the gift, then, if you possess but
its germ, since nothing can contribute more
highly to the happiness of friends at home
or abroad.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	We will commence this romance by intro-
ducing the heroine—an agreeable young lady
of marriageable age, say twenty, plainly and
neatly clad, who devoted a portion of her time
serving God, by trying to instruct, happify and
better the condition of God's children. She
was one of the earnest and faithful members of
a Retrenchment Society, never danced after
twelve o'clock, wore neither stays nor high
heels, but expanded her lungs with the fresh air,
and her step was elastic and free. Her perfect
and healthful form, intelligent countenance
and modest behavior attracted the special at-
tention of a young prince, who bore the name
of Joseph. He was of the royal lineage of the
house of David, and heir to the blessings,  the
wealth, and the power of the Eternal Priest-
hood. He honored his parentage, and culti-
vated nobility in his nature, and set a worthy
example for "fast young men." He did not
squeeze Mary's hand and say soft things to her,
and tell her that she was handsome and so es-
sential to his happiness; but he went, like a
true prince as he was, to his father and mother,
and told them that there was a precious girl in
their city, Nazareth, for whom he entertained
great respect, and he felt that there was a seed
of love planted in his heart, that only required
their approbation and that of all parties con-
cerned, to take root and sprout and grow until
it encircled Miriam (that was the pet name by
which he chose to call her). The father and
mother smiled upon their noble son and sealed
the smile with their blessing. Then they vis-
ited Mary's family, and asked her parents if it
would be agreeable to them to have Joseph
visit there and try to win their daughter's love.
They consented, and said  they would exchange
gifts as a token of betrothal; such engagements,
or betrothals, were not usually consummated
by marriage under twelve months, but were
considered very sacred.
	While the thread of the life of these lovers
is running smoothly a higher Court has taken
cognizance of the condition, and passed judg-
ment in the case. Belonging to this court is a
popular messenger, a resurrected nobleman,
named Michael. He is delegated by the Su-
preme head of this August Assembly, to bear
the glad tidings of its decision to Mary, and
coming into her presence, he addresses her in
this respectful manner:
	"Hail! noble lady! The Lord, King of kings,
is with thee, and thou art more favored and
blessed than any other woman."
	Mary pondered upon these strange words.
She knew that her father's family—the family
of Judah—was promised the honor of rearing
a Son of God, Who would yield his life blood a
sacrifice, acceptable to remove what we term
the evil consequences of the sentence of death,
which was passed upon Adam and Eve and
their posterity in the Morning of Creation.
While she thus pondered a feeling of astonish-
ment and fear caused her to tremble, when
Michael spoke kindly to her, telling her that
she had no cause to fear; God had decreed that
hers should be the honor of bearing the child
Jesus, who should sit upon the throne of David,
and to whose kingdom there should be no end.
	Mary, like a true woman, accepted the con-
dition, and braved the perils.
	When Joseph was informed of the interview
that his affianced bride had received he became
jealous, and considered whether he would for-
sake Mary, for he said the story about Michael
must be all a fabrication; he was the affianced
husband, and ought to be the head of the
woman, and he did not relish being passed by
in any such a way; so he mentally told himself
that he would do no wrong in the matter, but
quietly and silently withdraw the love and
protection that, from the depths of his warm
heart, he had taught her to respect and rely on.
	She soon began to feel the chill of desolation,
and her troubled spirit refused to rest in sleep
until Joseph should again fully confide in her.
To his nature love was less essential than to
hers, so he with apparent indifference slept
while Mary quietly and silently prayed for a
return of the warmth of Joseph's love, and as
she prayed an angel disturbed Joseph's slum-
bers, and told him that his rights had not been in
the least, infringed upon, and that, for the in-
tegrity of his manly heart, he was entitled to
this explanation. Now he was told that he
must return to Mary, beg a thousand pardons,
and love and cherish her as he ought, and the
watch-care of the Most High would be over
them, to guide their footsteps until the wise
men of the East should do reverence to their
reputed son, the Son of God, the real King of
Israel.
	Reuma.


ABOUT FASHION.
	A young lady's thoughts and reflections on
hearing one of our leading elders express his
ideas on the fashions and follies of women.
	I wish to express my ideas about the vain and
foolish fashions our elders talk so much about.
I dare not deny that we, women of Utah, who
ought to know better, do allow ourselves to be
carried away by the follies and foolish fash-
ions of the outside world, so as to make our-
selves ridiculous, but must we shoulder all the
blame?
	Do not our elders in Israel, who are the
stronger vessels, follow such fashions? For in-
stance, what about their elaborate gold watches
and chains, and their fine gold toothpicks, and
their fancy shirt studs and dainty walking
sticks, etc.; what are these but fashions? Let
us ask ourselves the question, if we are really
the people of God as we claim to be, why not,
men and women with one accord wear our
homemade, and save the means we spend for
all these things, to bring to Zion the poor and
honest in heart of our people in foreign lands,
and use it to build temples, etc. I cannot help
but think when I see our leading elders get up
and talk about the extravagance of women,
that in one sense of the word we are no more
extravagant than they are; they do not, for a
moment, realize that all those little fancy nick-
nacks that have been mentioned, cost money.
Oh no, they think because a woman puts twelve
or more yards in her dress that she is extrava-
gant, but allow me to say that the price of one
suit of clothes for a man, would dress this Utah
girl (only think of it) for one year. We as a
people are supposed to wear homemade, yet
the lords of creation must have at least one
suit of broadcloth, at a cost of $75 or more.
Now reflect on these ideas, and decide for your-
selves which is the most extravagant.
Respectfully,
A UTAH GIRL.
Pine Canyon. Dec. 20th, 1875.


ABOUT DANCING.
	In a conversation in the President's office,
Dec. 4th, 1875, with Bishops Layton and
Smith, on the subject of dancing, President
Young said that it was his mind that dan-
ces should commence from one to two in
the afternoon, and dismiss from 9 to 10.
That was the plan he had adopted in this
city in the early days of the Territory, and


which he wished to see adopted by the
bishops in the settlements. He had led out
in this way himself from the commence-
ment of the settlement of the Territory, and
set the example in his own practice, and his
mind was still unchanged. Dancing was no
part of our religion, but when we attended
to it for our amusement, we did it in the
name of the Lord, just as we should attend
to any other business.
	With regard to round dances, he was op-
posed to them, from beginning to end, from
top to bottom. Round dances were first com-
menced in and still continue brothel-house
dances.
			George Reynolds.
				(Clerk to Prest. Young.)
I endorse the above statement.
(Signed)			Brigham Young.
Deseret News.


GRANTSVILLE, T. G.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Recently I heard a Mother raving and be-
moaning because some of her children had
been chastised for some bad conduct, and
they, the children richly deserved the pun-
ishment they recived and more, but her un-
reasoning fondness made her unjust; she did
not think her children could do wrong, she
imagined the whole world was in league
against them especially. Was this a wise
course to purse (?)  Those children believ-
ed themselves to be martyrs pitied them-
selves and the chastisement did no good,
instead, it created a spirit of revenge in 
their young bosoms: seeds sown that will
surely bring forth bitter fruit.
	Unless their Heavenly Father takes bet-
ter care of them than their foolish mother
it will not take a prophet to foretell their
future. It is hard, very hard for a mother
to see her children punished, but it is some-
times an imperative duty to do so for those
children's welfare here and hereafter; it is
weak, almost imbecile for a mother to re-
fuse to believe her children can ever do
wrong. Thousands on thousands of crimi-
nals have cursed their mothers foolish fond-
ness, and declared to this cause alone they
owed their downfall. A wise mother will
not screen her offending offspring although
it will make her poor heart bleed, and cause
her pillow to be wet with the bitterest tears
a mother can shed.
	Oh! children learn that when you do
wrong the punishment falls heaviest on
your mother's heart.
	Would it could be written in letters of
fire to burn into the hearts of children this
one sentence "Children obey you parents in
the Lord." How much sorrow it would
save, how many homes it would shield
from desolation, how many mothers would
be spared to a ripe old age that have gone
down to their graves in sorrow and shame
through the faults of their children.
	Dear children believe this truth "As you
sow so shall you reap, If you sow the wind
you will reap the whirlwind."
MARY.


A CLEVER old lady, just arrived from the
country, entered the refreshment-room at
a railroad station the other day, and said
she had left her parasol on the seat. A
general search commenced, and lasted for
some time. Finally one of the waiters
asked the old dame when she left it, to
which she answered, on counting on her fin-
gers, "Well it was three years ago last 4th
of August." There was a general roar,
much to the astonishment of the old lady,
who went away with a very puzzled look
upon her countenance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

	LOVE AND LADIES' SOCIETY.

		By George Anderson.

	Mr. President, and Ladies and Gentle-
men of the 20th Ward Institute:—I have
chosen for my theme, "Love, and Ladies'
Society." I will quote the words of God,
as recorded in the 2nd capter of Genesis,
18th verse: "And the Lord God said, it is
not good that man should be alone; I will
make him an help meet for him." Histo-
ry, both sacred and profane, bears ample
testimony that this grand truth has been
realized and understood by the eminent
men of race, from the days of Father
Adam to the present. Adam chose rather
to leave Paradise, than be deprived of the
society of his beloved spouse. And he said
that a man should leave father and mother
and cleave to his wife. Seth, Enoch, Me-
thusaleh, Lameck, Noah, Melchisedek, Abra-
ham, Jacob, Moses, Gideon, Samson, Boaz,
David, Solomon, and many others, whose
names are handed down to posterity in the
Old Testament, all demonstrated, by their
course and conduct, that they realized and
understood that it is not good that man
should be alone. It is evident that women
loved to associate with our Lord and Sa-
viour Jesus Christ, and that He reciprocated
their love, even after His resurrection. The
apostle Peter was married, and it is gener-
ally conceded that his brethren of the
twelve were also married men. If the apos-
tle Paul was not married, he evidently be-
lieved in this sacred ordinance, and con-
sidered that he had a right to lead about a
sister, or a wife, "as well as other apostles,
and as the brethren of the Lord, and Ce-
phas." (1 Cor., 9th chap., 5th verse.) Paul
proclaimed marriage to be "honorable in
all." (Heb., XIII. iv.) And forbidding to
marry, he denounced as one of the "doc-
trines of devils." (1st Tim. IV.) The history
given in the Book of Mormon, of Lehi,
Nephi, Amulek, Mormon, Moroni, and other
eminent men, testifies that they also were
lovers of ladies' society. If we turn to the
pages of what is called profane history, we
find the same characteristics manifested by
the world's eminent men. As illustrations,
we might mention Plato, Cicero, Alexander,
Mahomet, Ceasar, Charlemange, Bacon,
Napoleon, Nelson, Goethe, Scott, Byron,
Burns, Augustus, Buckingham, Palmerston,
Webster, and hosts of others, whose names
I have not space to mention. I do not claim
that the conduct of all these men whom I
have mentioned was in all respects exem-
plary in their associations with the daugh-
ters of Eve, but I do claim that they
demonstrated by their acts, they were be-
lievers in the doctrine, that it is not good
that man should be alone. As eminent be-
lievers in this grand truth in our own day,
we might make honorable mention of Jo-
seph, Parley, Willard, Jedediah, Heber,
Brigham, Daniel, and hundreds of other
prominent men in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	True, the Papal Church and various other
classes, or sects, including many of both
sexes, have, during the various epochs of
the world's history, as well as in our
own time, attempted to extirpate from
their natures this heaven implanted desire;
but the results of such unnatural efforts
never have been, and never will be, desir-
able to any sensible, right-feeling man or
woman, who understands things as they are.
What is there about the ascetic, or the mis-
anthrope to be desired? and who would
wish to be sexually apathetic? I have been
led to reflect on this and kindred subjects,

[COLUMN 2]

in consequence of being informed that quite
a number of the girls and young ladies of
our community, are attending a certain
school in this city, which is under the aus-
pices and influence of a so-called church,
that has for centuries promulgated this un-
scriptural and unnatural dogma, as one of
its prominent doctrines; and also, because
I have often known of some of the young
ladies of our city having gone home in the
dark, from meetings and other public gath-
erings, unattended by even a single male
friend; and I have felt chagrined to think
that some of our young men were appar-
ently so lacking in gallantry, and I have
thought that there must be something wrong
somewhere; for there is a sexual magnet-
ism, or some kind of an influence, which
attends every good, virtuous, honorable man
to feel blessed in her society. She inspires
his soul with noble aspirations, draws out
his devotional feelings, and brings him
nearer to his God.
	The social condition of society, in portions
of the so-called civilized world, to-day, is
such as to render it unsafe for a lady to
walk abroad, unless attended by a male
protector. In fact, she is not safe if left
without a protector, even in her own house.
And to-day this deplorable condition of
things exists, to some extent in this Terri-
tory. No elder, or male member of this
church, should ever make attempt to take any
unlawful or improper liberties with any of
the daughters of Eve. He should be a pro-
tector of female chastity and honor, at all
times, upon all occasions, and under all cir-
cumstances. He might meet a lady, either
by day or by night, on the highway or in
the byway, in the field or in the forest, and
she should find in him nothing but a pro-
tector and friend. She might even visit
him, under similar circumstances to those
under which the faithful Ruth visited the
honorable Boaz, and he would only treat
her in a similar manner. For temptation
is the only test of virtue.
	The importance of the duty of procre-
ation has been generally recognized, par-
tially understood, and has been encouraged
in various ways, from the time that the
Lord said, "Be fruitful and multiply," up
to the present. The present age may be
a partial exception to this rule, especially in
our own nation. In ancient Sparta, the
special duty of women was to produce
strong, healthy children for the State. It is
said that it used to be the custom in China,
for a public place, all unmarried men who
were over thirty years of age, and all unmar-
ried women who were over twenty, and have
them publicly punished. Similar customs
have prevailed among other nations.
	I allude to these customs merely as histo-
rical facts, and not as examples in all re-
spects worthy of imitation.
	Tradition and history, both sacred and
profane, point to polygamy as the oldest
form of marital associations. Polygamy
has been practiced in every age and in every
clime. Four-fifths of our race have al-
ways been polygamists. Mahomet, at his
death, left nine widows; and his followers
are said to number one hundred and forty
millions. I will here state that, if I was
an infidel and an atheist, that my knowl-
edge of human nature as it is, would still
lead me, as a citizen of the world, to favor
the toleration of polygamy.
	The feeling, or principle, which should
influence all the associations of the sexes,
should invariably be that Heaven-born at-
tribute—Love. Some one has said "Love

[COLUMN 3]

not; the thing you love may die." But my
experience has taught me that, "It is bet-
ter to have loved and lost, than never to
have loved at all." If we wish to feel as
we should feel, and live as we should live;
if we wish to be successful in the perfor-
mance of all life's duties; if we desire true
happiness, we must love and be loved, from
the cradle to the grave; and if, through
any unfavorable circumstances whatever,
we are deprived of "the bliss of loving,
and of being loved," our loss is incalcula-
ble. It is an axiom that there can be no
true love where there is no respect. Love
is the normal condition of our race.
	The new-born babe nestling in its moth-
er's bosom appreciates love, and the capaci-
ty to appreciate love continues (under fa-
vorable circumstances) to increase during
the periods of childhood and adolescence,
at which period that peculiar phase of love,
which seeks the society of the opposite sex,
is strengthened and intensified. And if
we are governed by correct principles, this
immortal passion will continue with us
through the journey of life, smoothing our
pathway, cheering, comforting and encour-
aging us in prosperity and in adversity, in
health and in sickness, and under all cir-
cumstances it will make our meeting with
the grim monster, Death, appear less terri-
ble; it will brighten our passage through the
dark "valley of the shadow of death;" it
will attend us in the world of spirits, and
will continue to inspire us to godlike deeds.
	"While life or thought or being lasts
	Or immortality endures."
	In conclusion, I will quote the language
of an able writer on this interesting and
important subject. In speaking of love he
says: "It is not confined to the gifted, the
high born or the rich, nor is it peculiar to
any period of the world, or to any condition
of life. All have possessed the sensibility, if
they have not experienced the passion; they
have felt the want of love, if they have not
enjoyed its fruition."
	"Love sheds on earth something of the
beauty and the light of heaven. Love de-
velops the noblest traits of humanity; and
often brings them out from those persons
who had given little promise of possessing
them until they were brought under the in-
fluence of this master passion. There is
nothing so great, so difficult, or so self-sac-
rificing, that love will not inspire men to
dare, and do. But it is not more in splendid
achievements or wonderful adventures, than
it is in the innumerable little things which
conspire to make up the happiness of social
life, that the greatest victories of love are
won. We cannot love any person, without
seeking his or her benefit, and in endeavor-
ing to benefit and please the object of our
affection, we are impelled to improve and
beautify ourselves, in order to become more
worthy of our beloved one's affection in re-
turn. And this leads us not only to adorn
our persons, but to polish our manners, and
cultivate our minds. Hence we are deeply
indebted to this sentiment, for those quali-
ties of mind and person, which combine to
constitute us social beings; since it does not
more certainly impel us to the acquisition
of what is beautiful and becoming in dress,
and deportment, than to the attainment of
intelligence, politeness, and to surround
ourselves with all the embellishments of
civilization. Love refines all that it touch-
es. Under its influence the rough boy be-
comes the respectful young gentleman, and
the awkward girl assumes the innate refine-
ment of the lady. Love paints the cheeks
with roses, adds more lustre and intelligence


to the eye, imparts strength and elasticity
to the step, grace and dignity to the mien,
courage to the heart, eloquence to the ton-
gue, and poetry to every thought. In fact
love is the poetry of life, and the life of poe-
try. Love has inspired in every age the
brightest dreams of fancy, and the noblest
conceptions of literature, and of art, consti-
tuting the perpetual theme which animates
the writer's pen, and tunes the "poet's lyre."

O happy love!—where love like this is found!—
O heartfelt rapture! bliss beyond compare!
I've paced much this weary world around
And sage experience bids me this declare—
If heaven a draught of heavenly pleasure spare,
One cordial in this melancholy vale,
'Tis when a youthful, loving, modest pair,
In other's arms breathe out the tender tale,
Beneath the milk-white thorn that scents the evning gale.
BURNS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN ORDINANCE.

ESTABLISHING FIRELIMITS, AND FOR
THE PREVENTION OF FIRES.

	SEC. 1.—Be it ordained by the City Coun-
cil of Salt Lake City: That the following
be and are hereby established as the fire
limits of said City, viz:—All of blocks 76,
69, 58, 57, 70, and 75, Plat A. Salt Lake
City Survey; and within said limits it shall
be unlawful to erect any building, the out-
er walls of which are in whole, or in part,
constructed of wood, except so much as 
may be necessary for door and window
frames, cornice, doors, sash and shutters;
and the roofs of all buildings hereafter
erected, or newly roofed, within said limits
shall be covered with metal or other in-
combustible material; and each building
shall be separated from all others by a party
wall of brick, adobie, or rock, not less than
nine inches thick from the foundation to the
roof, from front to rear, and to extend
through and above the roof not less than
two feet, so as to entirely separate any com-
munication of wood between such building 
and any other; and in all buildings where
fire is kept there shall be flues or chimneys
built of brick or adobie, and all stove pipes
shall be conducted into flues or chimneys,
and if they pass through wooden partitions
they must be protected from the same by
metal ventilated thimbles, and in no case
shall a stove pipe be allowed to pass through
the roof, or out of the side of any building.
	SEC. 2.—The erection of such buildings
as are mentioned in Section one upon any
block not included within the aforesaid lim-
its, may be prohibited upon application to
the City Council in writing, signed by the
owners of the greater part of the property
in said block. Such application shall be ac-
companied by a plot of the block, designat-
ing the property of each owner by his
name, written on the plot representing his
property; and the City Council, being satis-
fied that the applicants are the owners of
the greater part of said property, may ex-
tend the fire limits over said block.
	SEC. 3.—No person shall, within said fire
limits, keep hay or straw, in stack or pile,
without having the same enclosed so as to
protect it from flying sparks of fire; and no
owner or occupant of a livery or other sta-
ble, or any other person, shall use therein,
or in any other place containing hay, straw
or other combustible matters, any lighted 
candle, or other light, except the same be
kept, safely enclosed in a lantern or other
suitable covering to protect the same.
	SEC. 5.—Whoever shall, in person or by
another, erect any building within said fire
limits in violation of this ordinance, shall
be liable to a fine not to exceed one hundred

[Column 2]
dollars, and the further sum of twenty-five
dollars for every day after twenty-days no-
tice that the building is permited to stand;
and any person who shall become the own-
er thereof after the same shall have been so
built, and who shall omit, neglect or refuse
to remove the same within twenty days af-
ter notice, shall be liable to pay the same
penalties; and for the violation of any other
provision of this Ordinance not herein pro-
vided for, shall be liable to a fine in any
sum not to exceed one hundred dollars.
	SEC. 6—Any person, within the limits of
this city, laying timbers, wood, or lumber
in any flue, or chimney where fire passes, or
laying joist, timbers, or lumber into any
fireplace or under the hearth stone, shall be
liable to a fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars, and a further sum of five dollars for
every day that such joist, timbers, wood, or
lumber are permitted to remain after hav-
ing been notified to remove the same.
	SEC. 7—It shall not be lawful, within the
limits of said city, for the owner, occupant
or other person having control or any steam
saw, or planing mill, or factory, of any
kind, or foundry, machine shop, or other
establishment, to erect any smoke-stack or
chimney in connection therewith of less
height than ten feet above the highest build-
ing on the block, and shall securely brace
or stay the same, and shall have on said
stack or chimney a bonnet or spark arrester,
all to be done to the acceptance of the in-
spector of buildings.
	SEC. 8—The owners of all buildings with-
in the limits of this city wherein fire is
kept are hereby required to build flues or
chimneys of brick or adobie in said build-
ings, and from and after the passage of this
Ordinance it shall be unlawful to project
any stovepipe through the roof or out of
the side of any building; and on or before
the First day of March, A. D. 1855 all stove-
pipes through the roof or out of the side of
any building shall be removed by the owner
thereof.
	SEC. 9.—It shall not be lawful for any
person within the limits of this city to use
coal oil or other combustible fluid for the
purpose of kindling fires, or to handle the
same by pouring from one vessel to another
at any other time than by daylight.
	SEC. 10.—Any person violating or failing
to comply with any of the provisions of 
the last three sections of this Ordinance
shall be liable to a fine not to exceed fifty
dollars and a further sum of five dollars for
every day that any stovepipe is permitted
to remain through the roof or out of the
side of any building, after the first day of
March, A. D. 1876.
	Passed November 30th, 1875.
				DANIEL H. WELLS,
							Mayor.

Territory of Utah,
	Salt Lake City. }SS
			
				This certifies that the fore-
going is a true copy of the ordinance, enti-
tled, "An Ordinance establishing fire lim-
its and for the prevention of fires," passed
by the City Council, Nov. 30th, 1875.
	Given under my hand and the Corporate
		seal of Salt Lake City, this 7th
		day of December, A. D., 1875.
{L. S.}
			ROBERT CAMPBELL,
					City Recorder.


A MIRAGE.
	I have long promised to give a descrip-
tion of a mirage which I have seen several
times in Minnesota. A myth! Dear read-
er, when you see an extensive mirage, I
feel sure you will acknowledge you are
really seeing quite a sight, a pleasant and in-
teresting one too. Houses and groves rise,
one after another in the background, and
even lakes can be seen at a great distance
during one.
	I was once standing a few rods from the
north shore of a beautiful lake which was
from four to five miles wide, when the
south shore appeared to be no more  than as
few rods away. I had scarcely time to re-
cover from my astonishment before it was
out of sight again. Usually mirages re-
main longer and sometimes may be seen in
their splendor for hours together. It is not
very uncommon to see groves twenty miles
away during a mirage. You really see the
groves, the distance only being what is de-
ceptive at the time.
	Villages rise in like manner, and were 
once seen in the direction where the Indi-
ans had murdered so many inhabitants that
it was easy to fancy that the smoke, as it
rose in the magnifying as well as refraction
of the rays of light, was like towering mon-
uments, placed over their departed friends,
who had a few years before been victims of
the treacherous savages. Haystacks tower
up, and remind one of the pyramids
of Egypt, rather than stacks from two to
five miles away. I was not long since much
amused by reading a short but graphic de-
scription of a mirage, given by an Indian
chief who was trying to forcibly impress a
young hunter with the vast power of the
Great Spirit. Said he, "The Great Spirit
took a large mountain away from its place
and put it on top of another one and let it
remain a few hours, and then put it back
again in its own place."
Aunt Flora.
		LAMARTINE'S MARRIAGE.
	The story of the marriage of the great
French poet and statesman, is one of ro-
mantic interest. The lady was of an En-
glish family named Birch, and very wealthy.
She first fell in love with the poet from
reading his "Meditations Poetiques." She
was slightly past the bloom of youth, but
still young and fair. She read and re-read
the "Meditations," and nursed the tender
sentiment in secret, At length she saw
Lamartine in Geneva, and her love became
a part of her very life. Not long after this
she was made acquainted with the fact that
the poet was suffering, even to unhappiness,
from the embarrassed state of his pecuniary
affairs.
	Miss Birch was not long in deciding up-
on her course. She would not allow the
happiness of a lifetime to slip from her if
she could prevent. She wrote to the poet a
frank and womanly letter, acknowledging
her deep interest and profound respect, and
offering him the bulk of her fortune, if he
were willing to accept it. Of course Lamar-
tine could not but suspect the truth. Deep-
ly touched by her generosity, he called upon
her, and found her to be not only fair to
look upon, but a woman of a brilliant liter-
ary and artistic education. He made an
offer of his hand and heart, which was
promptly and gladly accepted; and in the
after years Alphonso de Lamartine owed not
more to his wife's wealth than to her sus-
taining love and inspiring enthusiasm.—N.
Y. Ledger.


MATILDA Jane (catching the pastor after
Sunday school,) "Oh, sir, please, what would
you charge to christen my doll?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	It is gratifying to know that the sisters
are awakening to a greater sense of the re-
sponsibility resting upon them as mothers
and co-workers with the brethren in assist-
ing to raise the standard of Zion. There
is much to be accomplished in a very short
space of time, and all who will be earnest
in coming forward and in sharing in the
toils and difficulties which continually
arise in the pathway of the servants of
God, will assuredly have the Holy Spirit to
bear testimony to them that they are on the
right road to attain celestial glory and hap-
piness hereafter. Do not wait for some-
thing to be put into your hands to do, but
work to-day at home, among your friends,
in every place where you may be, with all
the energy you possess to inspire those
around you, with the spirit of the great and
holy mission of reforming and regenerat-
ing society, at home and abroad. Woman's
voice may be heard in private in every
house, if not in public; advocate the prin-
ciples of true reform, not only of repentance
and sorrow for past offences, but for con-
stant and continual steadfast integrity of
purpose, in duty and work. If you are
strong in faith, be generous and charitable
toward those wao have not so much expe-
rience and are not so thoroughly established
in all good works. Every woman should,
as far as possible, exercise an influence
which may be felt in the circle of her asso-
ciations. Every mother can have if they
are careful, wise and discreet, an influence
in their own household and among those
under their care and guidance, which will
tend to improvement of all connected with
them. Let ewery word spoken convey an
idea or principle of thought or feeling, or
motive which shall be understood as emana
ting from a foundation of purity of purpose
and action. Shall we who have had the
light of intelligence from heaven flowing
into our hearts, and whispering to us for so
many years, let our sons and daughters
grow up in ignorance of the laws of life
and salvation, and become as darkened in
their minds as those whose parents never
knew aught of the laws of God? If we
are thus remiss in teaching, (and in doing
as well as teaching) the principles of eter-
nal truth revealed from heaven, we cannot
expect our children to advance. We have
been making continual sacrifices that our
children might surpass us, and ascend into
a purer atmosphere of thought and feeling,
than the world is surrounded with. Shall
we miss the attainment of the object for
which we have been striving, because we
are too indolent and weak to stand boldly
forth in defense of the principles we 
have espoused?
EMILE.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25th, 1875.


A TERRIBLE sequel to an hour's amuse-
ment telling ghost stories occurred at a
Surgical Institute recently. A room full of
young ladies, patients of the institute,
amused and excited each other by stories of
terrific apparitions, hobgoblins, ghosts, etc.
The gas had been turned out either inten-
tionally or by accident. In the climax of a
vivid story one of the girls threw her shawl
over a trembling comrade. A little rustle
and strange conduct was noticed. When a
light was brought the fact was revealed
that the poor girl was insane. She has re-
mained so ever since, yet hopes are enter-
tained of her recovery.


THE FUTURE.—The future is always
fairy-land to the young.  Life is like a
beautiful and winding lane, on either side
bright flowers, and beautiful butterflies, and
tempting fruits, which we scarcely pause to
admire or taste; so eager  we are to hasten
to an opening which we imagine will be
more beautiful still.  But, by degrees as
we advance, the trees grow bleak; the flow-
ers and butterfiles fail; the fruits disappear,
and we find we have arrived, to reach a
desert waste; in the centre, a stagnant and
Lethean lake, over which wheel and shriek
the dark-winged birds, the embodied mem-
ories of the past.


NOTICE.

	The undersigned begs to inform the public, she has
sure and safe remedies for Disentery, Diarrhoea; Coughs,
Canker, Cramp, Palpitation of the Heart, Liver and Lung
cmplaints, Bruises, Itch, Yellow Jaundice Female
Weaknesses of all kinds and premature births a specialty.
Ladies accommodated with rooms at my residence during
confinement.
 NICKOLINE OLSEN, Exam. Midwife. 4 1-2 blocks South
of Street Car Station. 4th East St., 2nd Ward)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

		AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas.  A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New [-]ear in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries, I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

	WALLIN & TANNER,
	CROESBECK BLOCK, SECOND SOUTH STREET.
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
HARNESS, SADDLES,
		AND
Horse Blankets,
		CHEAPER THAN EVER.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
		----:o:----
	Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
		Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps. Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
		Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fasioned House.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
	 doors below Walker House, and examine our
	  goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
	   take pleasure in making to order. such
	     brushes as we have not on hand.
			Wm. II. MILES, Supt.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	LITTLE & ROUNDY,
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
		23, MAIN STREET.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
		AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
	MILLINERY.
		----:o:----
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac_
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
		in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
  HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	  STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
  AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	O. L. ELIASON,
		DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
		Second South Street, Opposite Walker
			Brothers' Bank.
	Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
			ONE YEAR.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
		IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
	TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
		GO TO
W. HARRISON'S,
	One door South of Constitution Buildings,
		Main Street.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
		THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
		priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
		LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good substantial 
	Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
		them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR:
BUTTER and EGGS,
			F. GOSS, Supt.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
		OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS
		------
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		------
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		------
		H. E. PHELPS, 
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1876.	No. 16.


For the EXPONENT.
	AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED TO
	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.

A Mother in Israel in the fullest sense—
All unassuming, and without pretence;
A woman! womanly—though firm, yet mild,
And meek and gentle as a little child.
To tend the sick, how watchful thou hast been!
Diffusing light and peace through every scene,
For God is with thee, and His angel's care,
Endorsing all thy words, and granting prayer;
His Spirit was the fount from whence you drew
Rich aspirations, blessing them and you!
And e'en thy presence brought them sweet relief,
The mind made happy that was bowed in grief.
To pour the "oil and wine" has been thy gift,
The soul bowed down in sorrow to uplift,
Causing the clouds of darkness to depart,
By the sweet spirit which your words impart.

Well hast thou stood life's battle, rear and front,
And like a well-train'd soldier faced the brunt,
With eye unquailing, and with cheek unblanch'd,
Thy bark upon the sea of life was launched,
And knowing Father's Self was at the helm,
Felt sure no sea had strength to overwhelm;
So on you rode, as childhood in repose—
May such continue till this life shall close!
Lady! Sister! Handmaid of the Lord!
Grand is thy future! Great is thy reward!
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City Jan. 6th, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

		THE YEAR 1875.

	Another link is added to the chain of
time, another year has run its race, and
like a garment that has served its time is
laid aside, and almost if not entirely for-
gotten, as we hurry on in the wild whirl of
these latter days.
	It were well for us to stop a moment and
look at this robe of time we have laid aside,
think if we have worn it nobly, gracefully,
try to remember what it has done for us,
and what we have done for it, has it brought
to us blessings of peace, of joy and happi-
ness? Has it strengthened bonds of love
and friendship, and added to our store of
kind words and deeds—those precious treas-
ures that memory guards so faithfully—and
has it also brought to us a portion of bitter-
ness? Have we too been called to pass
through that fire which searches out and
consumes the dross, that the gold may be
purified, and have loved ones been taken
for which the heart still yearns in deepest
sorrow? Whatever its gifts and trials have
been, have we received them from the
Great Giver with thankful hearts, realizing
that He is our Father loving and kind, and
that we can safely trust to Him what our
weak eyes fail to see?
	And what have we done in return for all
this year just past has brought to us? Has
its folds covered thoughts pure and holy,
have our works been worthy of those who
bear the name of Saint, have we stood
bravely in defense of the great principles
of the Gospel we have received, opposing
with every power its enemies, and ready al-
ways to impart its blessings to all who will
receive them? If this has been our course
of action we are prepared for the new year:
for its duties, its joys and its sorrows.
	We know not what the coming year has
in store for us as a people or as individuals,
we know that as the kingdom of God we
have the opposition of the world to meet

[COLUMN 2]

the powers of evil to battle with, and the
leaders of those contending armies are mar-
shalling their hosts for the last great strug-
gle. We know that truth will triumph, but
we do not know that we will prove faithful
unto the end and worthy an inheritance in
the kingdom of God.
	We have finished the record of the year
that is past, and we cannot recall one single
deed, whether good or evil, that does not
stand to our honor or condemnation, but
we can carefully look over those pages of the
past, and gather wisdom that will aid us in
the future.
	Remember it is the present that makes
the past, and it is a good thing to be able
to look back without a pang of sorrow or a
blush of shame, and it is in the present that
we build our dwelling places for eternity,
that we sow the seed of happiness or mis-
ery. This life is short and time is precious,
and let us seek those things that perish not
with earth.
	Farewell to the departed year, and when
the Books are opened and we listen to the
record, may we not feel to hide our faces for
shame and wish that it was blotted out for-
ever. And may the new year find us with
strength renewed and purpose firm to seek
the right, and prove us faithful and valiant
soldiers in the cause of God.
							Hope.


For the EXPONENT.
AS YOU SOW SO SHALL YOU REAP.
ADDRESSED TO THE PERPETUAL GROWLERS
	ABOUT WOMAN'S EXTRAVAGANCE.
	You have outraged women for the last
two thousand years at least.
	You have forced on her the conviction
that unless she can win you by the arts of
the toilet, she can never obtain a prominent
place in society.
	You have tried to stamp out every noble
feeling of her nature, by scorn for her weak-
ness, while you have used that weakness
for your own gratification.
	You have humbled her to the dust. You
have not cherished her as a helpmeet for
man, but used her as a slave.
	Now you are reaping as you have sown.
Now you whine because you have done
your work so well, and throw all the blame
on the woman, threatening not to marry
her because of her extravagance. Well,
don't. Better the world become utterly
empty than to go on as it has done for the
last two thousand years.
	This is something of the style—Caesar's 
wife must be above reproach, whilst Caesar
was a heartless reprobate.
	William of Normandy beat the Princess
Matilda because she did not want to marry
him; beat her until she consented to be his
wife.
	Napoleon divorced Josephine to satisfy
his ambition.
	Noble men, all these! Oh, yes! very no-
ble, very.
	MARY.
	Granstville, T


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The King of Siam has joined the royal
list of authors; he has published a small
cyclopaedia on the statistics of literature,
politics, geography and history of the coun-
try od Siam.
	THE PRINCESS Matilda De Keschko, re-
cently married to Prince Milan of Servia,
is described as looking like a Greek statue
stepped down from its pedestal, and as hav-
ing the air of a goddess when goddesses
were believed in.
	THE MARQUESE de Chambrun, the grand-
daughter of Lafayette, now a resident of
Washington, has in her possession a set of
pearls given her grandmother by Marie An-
toinette, at whose wedding that lady acted
as bridesmaid.
	MISS ANNA Louisa Cary, the sweet Yan-
kee singer from Maine, was received in
Moscow recently with the greatest enthu-
siasm by the "royalty" and the people. She
writes to a friend in Chicago, describing her
timidity in appearing upon the stage, but
says after the first rehearsal with the or-
chestra, she was sure that "failure" would
not be the verdict, for the musicians rose to
applaud her, which was the first time they
had noticed an artist. After the second act
of "Il Trovatoro" she was called out four
times, after the third act three times, and
after the entire opera six times. She says
her success has been the event of the sea-
son; and that she was received there with
the same enthusiasm and applause as in Cin-
natti at the Festival.
	OPENING OF A LADIES' COLLEGE.—Yes-
terday morning the new Ladies' College,
known as Newnham Hall, at the back of
the colleges, at Cambridge, was formally
opened, and received into its rooms twenty-
seven students, the resident mistress being
Miss Clough, sister of the poet. This hall
was much needed, as accommodation could
not be found at Girton College. The large
number of ladies who come to Cambridge
for the purpose of attending lectures could
not be provided with lodgings, a difficulty
which will now be removed. Newnham
Hall has been built at considerable cost by
a number of persons interested in promot-
ing the higher education of women, who
have formed themselves into a limited lia-
bility company for that purpose. The pay-
ment for one term's residence at the hall is
to be 201. There are some exhibitions and
scholarships which are open to competition,
and can be held by lady students at the hall.
Ladies who intend to make teaching a pro-
fession will be allowed to attend the lec-
tures.


IT is well that we were born babies in in-
tellect. Could we understand and reflect
upon one-half of what most mothers at that
time say and do to us, we should draw con-
clusions in favor of our own importance,
which would render us insupportable for
years. Happy the boy whose mother is tir-
ed of talking nonsense to him before he is
old enough to know the sense of it!


122		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

		R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-op-
erative Retrenchment Association held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Dec. 18th, 1875. After the usual formula
and reading of minutes, etc., President Mrs.
M. I. Horne addressed the meeting, and
gave some valuable instruction. Coun. E.
R. Snow, in her remarks, said the integrity
of the saints would be their password into
the celestial kingdom; spoke of the great
influence women could use in this kingdom
if they were awake to their duties, and also
of the importance of cultivating the abili-
ties with which God has endowed us for the
good of each other. Coun. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. Martha Young and others gave excel-
lent instructions, and bore earnest testimo-
nies.
	Meeting of this Association at the same
place, Jan. 9, 1876. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne in the opening address wished the
sisters, one and all, "A Happy New Year,"
and hoped that all present might be faithful
in keeping the covenants they had just re-
newed. The meeting was one calculated to
deeply impress the sisters with a sense of
their obligations to God and to each other.
It being very stormy the attendance was
not as large as usual, but they proved the
Saviour's words true, that where two or
three are gathered together in His name He
will be there to own and bless them.

		DRAPERVILLE, Dec. 15th, 1875.
 EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters at this place had the pleasure
of a very interesting visit from Sisters E. R.
Snow and M. I. Horne on Nov. 30th; Sister
Snow organized a society called the "Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association of Dra-
perville;" we received from them very
good and valuable instructions, which we
hope to treasure up and profit by in future.
The officers were elected as follows.
	Mrs. Julia Stewart, President.
	"	Melissa Fitzgerald,
	"	Hannah Smith,
	"	Mary E. Smith,	Counselors.
	Miss Mary A. Stewart,
	"	Leah Day,
	Mrs. Minnie Garff,
	Miss Annie Burnham, Secretary,
	"	Elnora Day, Assistant Secretary.
			Yours respectfully,
							E. DAY.

				RICHFIELD, Dec. 28th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Your paper comes regularly to hand, and
is very welcome among the sisters. Ac-
cording to request I will endeavor to give
you some account of our Relief Society, but
must apologize for being so late. Financial-
ly we can not boast of our Society, as we
are differently situated from our sisters in
the northern part of the Territory. The
United Order being established among us,
leaves us, happily, without much means,
but also without poor to support, as we are
all on an equal footing, our wants being sup-
plied out of the Order. Consequently the
sisters have but little to donate, but they
have kind hearts and willing hands, and
would do anything required of them to help
build up the kingdom of God.
	Three months ago our Society was partly
re organized, according to the pattern of
our brethren; such of the sisters as could
not comply with the requirements of the
United Order resigned their offices. Our
President from the beginning, Mrs. Chris-
tine Peterson, has kept her place faithfully

[COLUMN 2]

but new Counselors were elected, Sisters
Dorcas Farnsworth and Elizabeth Enze;
Secretary, Frederica Anderson; Assistant
Secretary, Anna D. Kemp; Treasurer, So-
phia O. Hanson, who from the beginning
has endured faithful. At that time there
was in the Treasury $120; shares in the Co-
operative Store 45; $221.68 has been paid
out within the last year towards the build-
ing of a house for the sisters, our brethren
having promised to build one as soon as
convenient. We generally manage to keep
a supply of material on hand for the dress-
ing of our dead, and it is charged over to
the Order; so with quilts, socks, or anything
else that the sisters manufacture; our
means is at the call of our brethren, whom
we think it our duty to sustain, and to ad-
minister to the sick for whom we have as
yet been able to procure a few delicacies.
	The Teachers, eighteen in number, (all
members of the United Order) visit regu-
larly, once a month, among as many of the
sisters as will receive them. We have a
a teacher's meeting and a prayer meeting
every month, and meet to work as often as
time and circumstances will permit, and we
can get a place with some of our sisters.
We have been trying to unite our efforts to
labor for the general good of all; in work-
ing our wool into cloth, our president her-
self being a hard worker, has indeed shown
her faith by her works, and some of our sis-
ters have followed her example. We exert
ourselves to encourage our sisters to foster
HOME PRODUCTIONS of every kind, but la-
bor under difficulties as long as we have no
house to work in; yet I can truly say that
union and a good spirit prevail among the
faithful few, who are always ready to meet
for worship, or for work, and we trust in
the God of Israel to crown our feeble efforts
with success, that we may be help-meets to
our brethren in working out the purposes of
God. We shall be pleased to receive coun-
sel and instruction from our more expe-
rienced sisters, either by letter or through
the Exponent. Love to our faithful sisters
wherever this may find them.
	Yours in the Everlasting Covenant,
				FREDERICA ANDERSON.

		SPANISH FORK, Jan. 9th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—I have been thinking of
writing for some time to let you know how
we are getting along with our Retrench-
ment Association, but have neglected it, not
being accustomed to write to a paper. We
meet together once a week, open our meet-
ings with prayer and singing, and bear tes-
timony to the things of this kingdom. We
also have a paper entitled "The Young La-
dies' Herald of Union." We are on the in-
crease and the timidity that affected us at
first in standing up to speak, is leaving us
in a great measure. It gives me great
pleasure to hear the young brethren and
sisters bear testimony to the work of God.
	When we consider the trials and troubles
our parents have gone through for the Gos-
pel's sake, it behooves us to be diligent, and
show to them and the world that we are fit
subjects for this kingdom.
	Our Retrenchment Association was organ-
ized March 31st, 1875, with the following
officers:
	Miss Mary J. Warren, President.
	"	Maria Finch,
	"	Mary J. Thomas,	"	Jane Robertson	Counselors.
	"	Elizabeth Martell,
	Mrs. Mary C. Bekstrem
	Miss Jane Robertson, Treasurer.


Emma P. Evans, Secretary.
Nancy E. Woodward, Assistant.
Our Resolutions are as follows:
	1. We will always dress neatly and in a
becoming manner, not indulging in the
foolish fashions of the world, but will try to
create our own fashions, such as will be con-
ducive to our health and comfort.
	2. We will attend Sabbath and Fast meet-
ings, Sunday School and other gatherings
where useful information and instructions
are imparted.
	3. We will be reserved in our actions in
meetings and elsewhere, and cultivate good
manners and true etiquette in our behavior.
	4. We will refrain from the use of slang
phrases and by-words, as they are termed,
being unbecoming and not ladylike.
	5. We will not treat or speak lightly of
any sacred ordinance of our religion, but
will seek wisdom, humility, and the guid-
ance of the Holy Spirit by prayer.
	6. We will refrain from reading fictitious
literature which has a debasing tendency,
and is very injurious to the memory, but
we will be studious in our lives, seeking to
obtain wisdom and knowledge from the
reading of good books and other sources at-
tainable.
	7. We will refain from fault finding, and
seek for the good of our brethren and sis-
ters, and do to others as we wish them to
do to us.
	8. Resolved that we will refrain from
round dancing, as it is not approved of by
the Presidency of the Church, and is also
injurious to our health.
	We were very much edified and instruct-
ed by Sister Eliza R. Snow and others while
on their visit to us last summer. Hoping
that we may ever follow their counsel and
examples is our united desire.
EMMA P. EVANS,
		Secretary.


SILENCING SKEPTICISM.
	It is said of Robert Hall, that when some
amatuer skeptic asked him about the future
of man, he roughly answered, "I don't
know whether you have a soul, but I know I
have." This was answering a fool accord-
ing to his folly, and no doubt tended to
make him less wise in his own conceit. But
wherewith shall we best reprove and si-
lence the skeptics of this generation? There
is one argument which speaks in all langua-
ges, and is known and read by all men, and
is quite unanswerable—a godly life. So to
live, that he who is of the contrary part
may be ashamed, having no evil thing to
say of us.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I wish to mingle my voice with those of
my sisters through your precious columns.
Not having a very good education it is hard
to express my feelings on paper, yet my
faith and integrity are just as good as though
my learning was better. We are in the
kingdom of God, and it is rolling on, and
when we, dear sisters, take time to write a
few lines to the EXPONENT we are helping 
to advance it a little. We can help to ad-
vance this great work in many ways; one
is in talking to the young through the EX-
PONENT. Now, dear sisters, as the holi-
days are over, let us put our minds to study
better things, those that will elevate us in
the kingdom of God.
S. J. T.
	HARRISVILLE, Jan. 3, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHEN WE ARE MEN.

A DIALOGUE IN RHYME FOR TWO BOYS.

First Boy-
	We are only boys, but are growing fast,
	Soon our boyhood will be past,
	And I ask myself again and again,
	What shall we do when we are men?

Second Boy-
	Better ask what shall we do as boys,
	What shall we do with our books and toys?
	With lessons to learn and teachers to please,
	Better ask what shall we do with these;
	For they will go, when our youth is past,
	And, as you say, we are growing fast.

First Boy-
	Oh, but books get stupid, and teachers cross,
	I am sure they will be no very great loss,
	And when we grow to be our own men,
	Oh, I wonder now, what we shall do then!
	Let us be good and let us be great,
	We will do something at any rate.

Second Boy-
	But you forget, as boys make men,
	We must labor now and prepare for then,
	And our books and lessons so hard and dry,
	Are fitting us now for the by-and-by.
	If we please our teacher, and mind each rule,
	And are prompt and punctual at school;
	If we try to do right again and again,
	We'll be ready to work, when we are men.

First boy-
	I see I am wrong in looking ahead,
	When the lessons hard, that I so much dread,
	Lie waiting to teach me the good and true;
	For shame to be idle, with so much to do!

Second Boy-
	Yes, for shame to be idle, for boys though we be,
	God has a work for both you and me.

BOTH:
	We'll choose for a guide in our childhood days,
	Him, who is worthy of prayer and praise;
	We'll serve Him in boyhood, and then, and then,
	He'll help us to serve Him when we are men.Northwestern Educator.


SNOW BASKETS.
	A great many know already how to make
these baskets, and there are also many who
do not, and they are so simple and pretty
we think they will be glad to learn.
	Take a yard of common cotton cloth,
some take an old well-whitened sheet, tear
it in strips an inch wide, and fringe out each
side to two or three threads in the center.
Twist the strips loosely. Take hoop-skirt
wire—any light wire will do—and make
two hoops a desirable size, the upper one
perhaps eight inches across, the lower one
somewhat smaller. Wind the hoops with
plain strips, and fasten the upper and lower
strips together with four plain strips at
equal distances from each other. Suspend
the fringed strips from the upper hoop in
loops of various heights, the ends of each
loop being sewed to the upper hoop at dis-
tances apart proportioned to its length.
Cover the space between the hoops well
with long and short loops. Little bows may
be sewed on wherever they will look tasty.
The handles are four long fringed strips,
sewed together at the top. The light deli-
cate beauty of these baskets could hardly be
conceived. They last longer than one would
expect, and though they cannot be washed,
some keep them looking well by sprinkling
them with flour. One made of canton flan-
nel was yet more fluffy and pretty. Baskets
made in the same way of the coarsest kind
of red flannel look almost exactly like coral.
—EX.


No man can for any considerable period,
wear one face to himself, and another to
the multitude, without finally getting be-
wildered as to which may be true.


RETRENCHMENT, OR GOD'S KING-
		DOM, OR NOTHING.
	Not being able to be with you in person,
I will try to in spirit and give you a few of
my thoughts by means of pen and paper.
I can not exchange ideas with you, so you
will have a little of the advantage for the
present, until such time as I can be with
you. I attended RETRENCHMENT MEET-
INGS with the 11th Ward for a year, and I
would not take the riches of this world for
the light and knowledge I received there;
and if you who have started out will perse-
vere with a determination to learn the ways
of the Lord, you will be blessed abund-
antly in your endeavors, so much so that
you will bless the day retrenchment was
instituted. Some may suppose it is to re-
trench in dress alone, but that is a small
item when you consider how many other
bad habits need eradicating from our
minds. These Societies consist of every
thing that is exalting, pure and noble, and
will eventually make us as pure as the an-
gels, if we have a desire and try to be so
ourselves. We have to work out our own
salvation and it will be ourselves who are
to blame if when the judgment day comes
we are not prepared, for we have all the
advantages necessary to learn. Let us
take a look at ourselves and see what part
of our natures we would be better without,
and retrench in it. We often slur people,
perhaps only through a feeling of jealousy;
but it hurts the person spoken of perhaps
more than we intended.
	How often we criticize and make fun of a
person that really we ought to respect, and
perchance if we were talking to them we
would be most amiable and courteous,
well here is a case of criticism and de-
ceit. I think it is a much better plan to
speak well of everyone and if we cannot,
let us keep silent. Sometimes persons
wound our feelings, but let us not wound
theirs, but overcome evil with good, this is
the most noble, and we shall feel better sat-
isfied with ourselves for doing so. Every
thing that is revealed for us as a people
through the authorities of the church, let
us heartily endorse and put in practice to
the best of our abilities, and if we do this
we will be as near perfect as the angels of
heaven, for they only do the best they can.
But we come far short of that as yet. Let
us look for the beam in our own eye and we
shall not be able to see the mote in another
person's.
	Let us try to prepare ourselves so that we
can be with the faithful in the presence of
our Heavenly Father, this is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel of Christ.
REBECCA MANNING.


TO THE RETRENCHMENT GIRLS
OF PLAIN CITY.

MY DEAR SISTERS:
	As I cannot have the pleasure of being
with you to-day, being confined to my bed
with a heavy cold which I received in do-
ing good to others; "but that is all right," I
thought I would send you a few lines to be
read in your meeting. The Lord has not
forsaken me, He pours out His spirit upon
me abundantly when all around me are as
leep. I have good reflections and the spir-
it of light leads me to see even behind the
vail where the spirits of the saints are work-
ing in co-operation with us, and preaching
to the spirits who died without a knowledge
of the Gospel; but they do not have this
world and its wickedness to contend with
as we have; therefore my beloved sisters


let us be united in all our undertakings, or
we can accomplish nothing. Let us be
humble, prayerful and watchful, for the
Evil One is at work trying to destroy our ef-
forts to do good. But if we, a band of
sisters are bound together in union and love,
and obedience to the Holy Priesthood, and
the principles of the Gospel, we shall be
able to do some good while we live, and
when we are called to go behind the vail
we shall not stop our progress in good works
but in a brighter sphere progress from step
to step until we arrive at the glory and ex-
altation that we have lived for; which may
God through His mercy grant unto us in
the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
	Sisters one and all I wish you a happy
New Year, may the spirit of God dwell in
your homes, and lead you through all your
duties in life as mothers in Israel. And
you my young sisters who have now been
called upon to step forward in the mission
you were sent here to perform. You are
the daughters of Zion born of parents who
hold the HOLY PRIESTHOOD. Do you ap-
preciate the great privilege that is bestow-
ed upon you above any other daughters in
the nation? Their fathers and mothers
great as they may be do not have the HOLY
PRIESTHOOD therefore young sisters be
thankful for your calling, and if you lack
wisdom be humble, and ask of Him Who is
willing to give; and if you are faithful to
the requirements made of you by your
leaders, you will be able to do a greater
work than your mothers have done hitherto,
and the Lord your Father will smile down
on you, and bless you and your posterity.
May God bless you one and all, is the pray-
er of your sister in the Gospel.
			A. C HEDVIG HANSEN.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	LET the young housewife cultivate a mild,
easy temper, for what matter it how well
her house be ordered, if she want command
over herself? Who can enjoy the most
skillfully cooked dinner, if the aspect of
the mistress of the feast be sour and unin-
viting?

	WHERE education has been entirely neg-
lected or improperly managed, we see the
worst passions ruling with uncontrolled and
incessant sway. Good sense degenerates
into craft, and anger rankles into malignity.
Restraint, which is thought most salutary,
comes too late, and the most judicious ad-
monitions are urged in vain.

	THOSE who joy in wealth, grow avari-
cious; those who joy in their friends too of-
ten lose nobility of spirit, those who joy
in sensuousness lose dignity of character;
those who joy in literature oftimes become
pedantic; but those who joy in liberty—i. e.,
that all should do as they would be done by
—possess the happiest of joys.

	BAYARD TAYLOR says it is not generally
understood that the woman in ancient
Egypt was honored and respected equally
as man. There was among the Egyptians
a lofty appreciation of the marriage tie.
The wife's name was often placed before
that of the husband, and sons often bore the
names of the mothers instead of those of
the fathers. Women often sat upon the
throne and administered all the affairs of the
Government. The assertion we so often
hear in these days that woman had always
a position of subjection to man is glaringly
false. In ancient Egypt he possessed no
important right which was not shared by
her.—The Alpha.


<ff. .="" publishers="" ttdaciit's.="" exponent,="" salt="" lavo="" city,="" utah.,="" 11="" 1="" )’="" "="" "'="" i="" '="" ,="" 1111="" <!="" lake="" -="" city.="" jan.="" .15,="" 1676.="" :="" n="" i<="" div="">124			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
L. GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editors.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2,00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
[-]es: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1876.


A STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE.

	Many persons have—and all should have a
guide or pattern, following which their course
is onward, ever on, approaching nearer and
nearer to perfection.
	Whatever pursuit or occupation is chosen,
it is always well to endeavor to excel in that
particular; to become master of a trade art or
profession, never a slave to either. And if a
standard is wisely chosen and carefully kept in
view, it is as easy to live a king, or queen as to
be a mere servant.
	The greatest difficulties which hinder the
progress of a vast portion of the human family,
are, doubtless, the results of inadvertency.
People fall into the lamentable way of think-
ing lightly or not at all upon weighty matters;
and thus fail to acquire the all important habit
of sober, earnest, careful thought. Without
power to concentrate the intellectual force it
must be impossible to accomplish great designs,
however strong the hands or willing the heart
may be. Energetic thought incites to energet-
ic action. It may be possible for a deep think
er to fail of putting his thoughts into operation
—he may purpose and not perform, but he
rarely if ever performs any creditable thing
without having first conceived a purpose.
	Of late years, this city seems at times to con-
tain a surplus of young domestic women who
are compelled to go about in search of employ-
ment.  When applied to for information con-
cerning a situation, the question instinctively
arises whether the applicant is one to be recom-
mended, one who has given thought and atten-
tion to that work for which she now impor-
tunes. Quite as much in behalf of the solici-
tor as of any one who may employ her is this
feeling of interest aroused. Conscious human-
ity gives every reasoning mind a desire to see
all creatures do well.
	The Gospel of Christ which "is the power of
God unto salvation" teaches wisdom and order
in all things. It teaches us when we take
time for reflection on these subjects, that food
should be properly prepared, dishes properly
washed, floors properly swept and beds and
clothing properly made and taken care of; as
well as that we should visit the widow and the
fatherless and keep ourselves unspotted from
the world. Therefore, in all things which
young people may or should be taught, a stand-
ard of excellence should be pointed out to
them as a safe and suitable criterion.
	By some it may be considered that these sim-
ple, every-day affairs have little to do with the
actual vitality of our religion, that temporal
salvation as well as spiritual salvation is neces-
sary for the welfare and happiness of mankind.
And this is not the sole cause why accuracy in
all these minor duties is most essential. But


another and very significant reason why we
need school ourselves and those who a[-]e look-
ing to us for example, to be thorough i[-] what-
is undertaken, is that a perfect system carried
out in one department of life's labors cannot
fail in facilitating the accomplishment of all
other obligations.
	And certainly there is no danger of any one's
erecting too high a standard of moral excel-
lence, or walking too directly in its line.


THE BEST SOCIETY.

	The best society as moderns apply the term,
does not necessarily imply real merit, virtue,
or goodness, but the greatest degree of polish,
style, and very frequently we find more or less
hypocrisy and deceit. If one wishes to win
their way to popularity among persons who
class themselves under this head they must
not evince any great degree of candor, or real
sincerity. They must study etiquette and the
laws of good-breeding, use a certain amount of
obsequiousness and initiate themselves into the
habits customs and style of those persons
who have qualified themselves by practice and
artfulness to take the lead of the "Beau
Monde." If such persons only preserve an out-
ward semblance of honor and dignity of char-
acter, they may be held up as examples to be
followed or imitated by those whose limited
knowledge and circumstances have left unpre-
pared for successfully winning their way to em-
inence in the social scale. It would be ex-
tremely unjust to say that all persons of polish-
ed manners and deportment were of this calss.
No indeed! But to a careful observer it would
seem that a majority were of this style. When
one becomes familiarly associated with persons
of the most unexceptionable tastes and man-
ners, and actually proves them not only uncer-
tain, unreliable, and insincere, but from their
conversation as well as conduct are led to be-
lieve that such are the characteristics of refined
society and its general bearing upon the com-
munity, one must inevitably draw the unfav-
orable conclusion, that the most refined socie-
ty in this enlightened nineteenth century
(when elevation of thought feeling and express-
ion is the constant topic) is not by any means
the safe guard of purity.

	To be genuine and frank in any strong sense,
is to be classed as uncouth and uncultivated,
much honor is due to those persons, who hav-
ing passed the ordeal of polite society in this
day and age  preserved their hearts and
affections, as well as their morals uncorrupted;
for as Dean Swift says:
	"It is hard where dullness overrule,
	To keep good sense in crowds of fools;
	And we admire the man who saves
	His honesty in crowds of knaves.


1776.	CIRCULAR.	1876.

LADIES DEPARTMENT, TERRITORIAL BOARD
OF MANAGERS.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, RETRENCHMENT
ASSOCIATIONS, AND THE WOMEN OF
UTAH GENERALLY.

	We, the undersigned, members of the Wo-
men's Centennial Executive Committee for
Utah, respectfully solicit your active and ener-
getic co-operation in preparing for the ap-
proaching National Centennial, by furnishing
creditable specimens of all useful and orna-
mental Home Industries of women's work
from a necktie, artificial flower, and the most
delicate embroidery, to a carpet; also natural


curiosities of our own collecting; and, as soon
as practicable, have them sent either to the
President at the Lion House, or the Treasurer,
opposite the Lion House, and adjoining the
Historian's office, Salt Lake City.
	Our specimens must be forwarded to Phila-
delphia by the first of March, which affords us
very little time, but with energy, promptitude
and united effort, much can be speedily accom-
plished.
	To expedite the work, we suggest that Com-
mittees be appointed forthwith in each Ward
of our cities, and in each Settlement in the
Territory, whose business shall be to collect
specimens all ready made—to search out wo-
men of artistic skill, and stimulate them to as-
sist; and where willing talent and ability are
found, with insufficient means to apply them,
we recommend that the necessary material be
provided, either by donation or otherwise, and
the latent will brought into exercise for the ob-
ject in view.
	Every article furnished must be distinctly
labeled with the name and place of residence of
its proprietor; and, inasmuch as persons from
other countries might wish to purchase Utah's
specimens, those articles which the owners are
willing to dispose of, should have the prices
plainly specified; all others are to be returned,
after the close of the exhibition.
COMMITTEE.
MISS ELIZA R. SNOW, President.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary,
" BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, Treasurer.
DR. MARY H. BARKER,
MRS. ELLEN G. HAYDON,
" PRISCILLA M. STAINES.
" MARY I. HORNE,
" BYRON GROO,
" H. C. GOODSPEED,
" ELIZABETH DAVIS,
" ELIZABETH HOWARD,
" ZINA D. YOUNG,
" SARAH M. KMBALL.


1776	CENTENNIAL	1876

	By order of the president of the Woman's
Centennial Executive Committee for Utah,
(she having received imperative orders from the
President of the International Woman's De-
partment at Philadelphia, to send word imme-
diately what space will be required.) We earn-
estly request all the presidents of Relief Socie-
ties throughout this Territory to send in reports
forthwith of their movements upon this sub-
ject; and also to furnish statistics of all dona-
tions expended for the poor since the first or-
ganization of said societies. Prompt and en-
ergetic measures to comply with this request
should be immediately taken. In all the dif-
ferent Wards throughout this city similar re-
ports should be furnished forthwith, as these
reports will have to be put into proper form
after being received, and forwarded to Phila-
delphia as a general report.
ELIZA R. SNOW, President,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE DESERET Silk Association met as per
adjournment at the City Hall, January 3rd 1876,
Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. Minutes of last
meeting read and accepted; Mrs. Young said
that while she had been visiting in the settle-
ments she had conversed with many of the
Bishops who promised to use their influence
in having the people put out trees; she thought
that there would be a greater interest taken
this year than there had been last, in the rais-


ing of cocoons, a good feeling prevailed through-
out the settlements. The Relief Societies had
promised to take hold and help in this matter;
spoke of some silk reeled by Sister Delinda
Robinson of Farmington which was to be sent
to the Centennial. Mrs. M. I. Horne said that
she was very well pleased to see the society
moving ahead, but did not understand any-
thing about the raising of silk only what she
had learned by attending the meetings; she felt
like learning all she could and would do her
best to help it along; asked the prices of eggs
and cocoons.
	Alexander C. Pyper said that the prices of
eggs and cocoons were as follows: Eggs 4 dollars
an ounce, and that there were 20,000 in an
ounce. Cocoons 2 dollars per pound, and that
reeled silk was worth from 9 to 10 dollars per
pound. Mrs. Barney said that while traveling
South she had spoken of the raising of silk and
the blessings that would be derived from it
financially, also that she had in her possession
a silk shawl, raised and made by Sister McLe-
land of St. Claire.

NOTICE.

	The Society wishes to say that those persons
who have any cocoons that are fresh and good,
and wish to sell them or have them reeled, the
Association will purchase them or reel them
into any kind of sewing silk they desire;
also any person that understands the reeling of
silk in all its branches will please report im-
mediately to the president of the society Mrs.
Zina D. Young, Salt Lake City, or to the Sec-
retary, Reuben Sympson, P. O. Box, 584, S. L.
City, Utah.
REUBEN SYMPSON,
Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

Dr. Young will continue his lectures to his
LADIES CLASS on each Monday afternoon,
commencing at half past three o'clock at the 
Woman's Exponent Office, until further no-
tice.

Jan. 10, 1876.


ESSAY ON FRIENDSHIP.

	A female writer, of well-known celebrity
says: "Friendship is not a plant of hasty
growth; though planted in esteem's deep fixed
soil, the gradual culture of kind intercourse,
must bring it to perfection." "Joanna Bailey."
	There have been volumes written upon this 
subject in both poetry and prose, and yet it is 
impossible to exhaust it; but while the wise
and great fail in portraying all its merits, I 
must certainly fall far short of any perfection
in conveying to you my ideas on such a cele-
brated topic; yet I have realized even in my
short life, some of the blessings and advanta-
ges asising from a sincere and well-advised
friendship; and I believe truly with the author
I have quoted; that lasting and abiding friend-
ships are not only seldom hastily formed, but al-
so require cultivation, however great the esteem
and reverence, we entertain for those whose
good feelings we are anxious to share; but care-
ful nurture of tender feelings, and kindly at-
tion to individual and mutual tastes and char-
acteristics, strengthen our faith and confidence
in each other, and these attributes are the 
strong bulwarks of solid and trustful friend-
ships.
	Congeniality of sentiment is considered by
many an essential requisite, but how often we 
see it disproved. Persons in almost every re-
spect dissimilar, are seemingly attracted to 
each other by strong opposing elements, and


finding a rarity of some special qualification,
cultivate an intimate acquaintance in order to
bring out those apparent peculiarities; and in
this intense study of another person perceive
so much that is genuine and lovable, that in-
sensibly even to themselves perhaps, they form
warm and reciprocal attachments.
	There are many varieties of friendship ac-
cording to the age, sex, and capabilities of those
persons with whom the intimacy exists; but a
true and genuine friendship founded upon a
basis of esteem, honor, and sincerity, cannot
fail in producing a beneficial result upon those
who live within its influence. Persons must be
conscious of the purity of their own motives,
and judge others from this lofty standard of
moral excellence, in order to be able to appre-
ciate the trust reposed in them. Co[-]lness of 
manner, formality, a frigid atmosphere of feel-
ing are detrimental to the happy growth of
this precious sweetener of life. And there
fore let all who desire to bask in its sun-
ny and invigorating rays, develop those
faculties which will inspire to wisdom, in at-
taining a true medium of thought, feeling and
action, which will impart that cordiality of
character, consistent with an eternal and sub-
lime friendship—instead of that gushing en-
thusiasm, which is almost sure to carry its vo-
taries beyond the bonds of sober reason.
M.


IN a report made by Surgeon E. P. Vollum to
the Surgeon-General, on Some Diseases of Utah,
it is stated that the adult population of that
Territory is as robust as any within the limits
of the United States.  The children furnish two-
thirds of the deaths, most of which occur under
five years of age.  In Salt Lake City, as appears
from the register kept by the undertakers, the
male deaths exceed the females in number
about fifty per cent.  The polygamous children
are as healthy as the monogamous, and the
proportion of deaths about the same, the dif-
ference being rather in favor of the former,
who are generally, in the city especially, situ-
ated more comfortably as to residence, food, air,
and clothing, their parents being in easier cir-
cumstances than those in monogamy.  So far
as he can learn, polygamy in Utah furnishes
no idiocy, insanity, rickets, tubercles, struma,
or debasing constitutional condition of any
kind.—"Frank Leslie's Illustrated Paper."


OBITUARY.

"Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
And stars to set—but all
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O death!

	Died in Salt Lake City twenty minutes past
four o'clock p. m. Saturday, Jan. 9th, of Ty
phoid Pneumonia, Deputy Marshal N. P.
Woods aged thirty-nine years, formerly from
Burlington, Iowa.  Deceased was the brother
of Major W. W. Woods of the Salt Lake bar,
and nephew of President Daniel H. Wells. He
had been a resident of this city since the sum-
mer of 1868, and was extensively known, and
universally esteemed by those with whom he
had friendly or business relations.  He was
particularly endeared to his relatives and inti-
mate friends both here and elsewhere, for his
many lovable qualities of disposition and
heart. He was a man of the deepest sympa-
thies and of large benevolence and generosity
of character.  His affec[-]ionate feelings towards
his companions and friends were always of
that peculiar type which indicate true fidelity,
and are invariably a guaranty to confidence.
His exceeding love of children was one strik-


ing characteristic of his tender feelings and
noble nature. One after another near and dear
to us pass away and are laid in the cold and si-
lent grave, and the living who loved them
would fain pay some fitting tribute of devotion
to their memory. "Tenderly think of the
dead" is one of the most touching lines ever
written and there are many true friends and
relatives of the deceased, who will never for-
get him, and who will remember his many
virtues and endearments, and ever hold his
memory sacred in their hearts.


1776.  CENTENNIAL.	1876
LADIES' DEPARTMENT TERRITORIAL
BOARD OF MANAGERS.

	A meeting of the ladies forming the ex-
ecutive committee was held at the office of
the territorial board of managers, 105 Kim-
ball block, Jan. 4th, 1876, at 11 o'clock a.m.
Most of the committee were present. The
business transacted was principally in rela-
tion to the flags. President Miss E. R.
Snow alluded to the want of sufficient time
to accomplish anything really satisfactory
or creditable, and said that if arrangements
had been made one year earlier it would
have been a great advantage. A specimen
of very fine lace work was shown, made by
a lady in Morgan city. Maj. Goodspeed
(who was present) said he thought Utah's
principal attraction would be the great va-
riety of mineral specimens and domestic
productions; in those he believed Utah
would exceed any other state or territory.
	It was resolved that meetings should be
held weekly at the same hour and place, for
the transaction of such business as should
be deemed requisite, until further notice.
	Circulars containing all necessary instruc-
tion have been mailed to the different coun-
ties and almost all the towns, either to presi-
dents of the relief societies or the bishops,
requesting prompt and decisive action in
these matters. In the different wards in
this city persons have been selected to visit
and report in regard to those who are will-
ing to contribute their work, etc. Some
have reported themselves as already em-
ployed upon articles of taste and beauty for
exhibition.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Salt Lake City.   Secretary


<f mdf.rt="" .yrf="" m'--="" d="" v.<f="" !="" iril="" iiaep.v;="" are="" families="" when.="" ,tbe="" govern-="" ment.="" of="" parents="" is.the="" reign="" affection,="" and="" the.pb.edisnce="" the="" ;children.the="" subr="" inission.of="" love.="" trip?="" pleasure="" ot="" being="" toved="" finds="" its="" way="" into="" cvory="" heart,="" arid="" madame="" de="" staelihas="" justymairitafnedj="" that="" wd.ceaso="" to="" loye="" our="" el="" vds!if;="" we-="" arc="" not="" beloved="" by="" another.="" l="" tip="" not.’dwelllong="" on="" ’the="" dleeks="" pf,youthn="" iirirdrdps="" sy="" fronl’tho2="" byd1,="" rests="" ori="" fhp'="" ijqsom="" of.thb'="" niriturer‘'flower,="" breaks,="" down.="" oiat.whtch="" has="" lived="" fit,="" ’="" ;l="" -="" —i;="" <="" div="">FLOWERS.
	TRUTH, like gold, is not the less so for be-
ing newly brought out of the mine.

	A BRAVE act always brings its own re-
ward in a happy heart.

	No man is free who does not command
himself.  Pythagoras.

	HAPPY are families when the govern-
ment of parents is the reign of affection,
and the obedience of the children the sub-
mission of love.

	THE pleasure of being loved finds its way
into every heart, and Madame de Stael has
just maintained, that we cease to love our-
selves if we are not beloved by another.

	TEARS do not dwell long on the cheeks
of youth. Rain drops easy from the bud,
rests on the bosom of the maturer flower,
and breaks down that which has lived its
day.


THE greatest misfortune of all is not to
be able to bear misfortune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	MY VISIT SOUTH.
	I left Salt Lake City Nov. 3rd and return-
ed on Dec. 11th, having traveled about 900
miles.  I held forty-five meetings, passed
through Nephi, Taylorsville, Warm Creek,
Gunnison, Monroe, Panguitch, Hills Dale,
Mammoth, Glendale, Orderville, Mt. Car-
mel, Kanab, Pipe Springs, Andrews Ranch,
Virgin City, Duncan Retreat, Rockville,
Tokerville, Leeds, Harrisburg, Washington,
Middletown, St. George, Clara, Pine Valley,
Pinto, Harmony, Kanarra, Hamilton, Ce-
dar, Summit, Parowan, Paragona, Bener,
Adamsville, Minersville, Greenville, Indian
Creek, Kanosh, Meadow Creek, Filmore,
Holden and Scipio.  I was conveyed from
place to place by the people and was met
with the greatest cordiality and respect.
Br. Segmiller took me to all of the settle-
ments of Sevier Co. being a distance of
about 150 miles.  He is very spirited and
is a successful laborer in the United Order.
There the people were greatly satisfied with
their abundant harvest and they were work-
ing harmoniously in the United Order. The
roads were fine and the weather was settled
until I began traveling through Kane Co.
there the roads were broken, rough and
sandy. While I was passing over into Long
Valley I was delighted with a forest of tall
pines averaging from 50 to 100 feet high,
and from 3 to 6 feet through.  I was told
that this forest extended 25 by 30 miles,
directly on the ridge or summit, and the
ground was free from brush or undergrowth,
leaving the tall stately pines waiting for
the woodman's axe.  This was a great treat
as the country for hundreds of miles is des-
titute of timber, only as it is found hid away
in the hills.  There has been a great drouth
this season and the grass was all dried up,
and the stock was driven off for better pas-
ture land; especially in the region of Fill-
more.  In Orderville, there is an organized
company numbering 29 men 37 women, and
99 children, organized under the presidency
of Howard O. Spencer, and if muscle and
sinew represents wealth, I thought it was
well represented by these hale and hearty
looking men whom I breakfasted with.
The women were spinning and weaving,
and the men were thrashing out their grain,
they said their harvest had been very heavy
and all seemed happy with their prospects
of future success.  Long Valley is more
like a canyon than a valley as it is so nar-
row it will not admit of their spreading
their borders very much.  Kanab is eleva-
ted and the climate is much like the New
England States, the soil is of a reddish hue.
Their bishop L. J. Nutall, had just arrived
and was energetically commencing his
new field of labor as a presiding bishop. I
found my brother-in-law, Philip B. Lewis.
His wife Mary died Nov. 14th after a linger-
ing sickness of one year; she died strong in
the faith of the Latter-day work, and was
noted for her charity and liberality to the
poor, and was cared for and duly appreciated
by her husband.  This brought the first and
only gloom of my journey.  The weather
was cold and I left in a rain storm, I stopped
at two Ranchs, called Pipes Springs and
Canan Ranch, at which places the surplus
stock of St. George and other places are
kept, and considerable beef, butter and
cheese are furnished at these places.  Ar-
rived at Virgin a place sometimes called
Pocketville, did not see it until we had got
right upon it.  It is a lively little place; on
inquiring for the Bishop, the boy told me
that he lived up there on a sand hill, and
while the carriage stood in front of the
house in the deepest of sand, I looked di-
rectly over the fence and saw a beautiful
flower garden and vineyard, such striking
contrast adjoining each other.  As I passed
on to St. George I looked back on Toker-
ville and these little places and was forcibly
reminded of a passage of Scripture referring
to the saints being hid up in the moun-
tains while the indignation of the Lord
passed over the earth.  Arrived at St.
George after dark and found Bro. Erastus
Snow and the Saints all congregated in a
large hall awaiting my arrival.  If the
Queen of England had arrived I don't think
that she could have been received with a
more hearty welcome; spent a couple of
days of unalloyed pleasure in the society of
the Saints in meetings.  There was or-
ganized a society of young ladies of 80
members, by the president of The Relief
Society, Sister Ivins. Topics and items of in-
terest were conversed upon at the meeting.
Some of the sisters accompanied me to the
Clara. I do not think the earth can afford
a nobler spirited woman than I found there
by the name of McLeland, such a calm and
placid expression upon her countenance.  Oh
that all mothers could bury their frowns and
cares beneath such a smile which so well be-
came her aged face; she showed me a shawl
and other articles that she had manufactured
from her own raising of silk. I never saw
before, nor do I think the world can boast of
such noble intelligent, fine-looking marri-
ageable young ladies as I saw in those settle-
ments where I visited; they appeared neat
and clean, comfortably dressed, but plain
and as though their better judgment guid-
ed them.  The ruggedness of the country
and their surroundings showed that they
had labored and encountered much to make
their homes, but yet with it all there seem-
ed to be such a welcome, mellow, broth-
erly and kindly feeling, unlike the mixed
element of this city where our deportment
is characterized with so much formality and
coldness; and I felt as though I little cared
if I never returned to it again.  At this
point I commenced my homeward journey,
and was furnished with a span of horses
that were called Dixie horses, and as they
began to climb the ledges in ascending the
ridge that surrounds the west side of St.
George, they reminded me of some well-
trained goats, and their little feet unlike
the clumsy American horses, could always
find a place in the rocks; but before I got
over that day's journey of 45 miles, Bro.
Foster furnished me with a span of horses
that rapidly flew over the remaining twelve
miles.  In Pine Valley we had quite a snow
storm, the summer season is very short
there, and they have very late and early
frosts. As I passed on I was occasionally
greeted by my warm friends of early life.
In Pinto I found myself buried in the
arms of a friend, one of our old fashioned far-
mer's wives, who seemed to be blessed
with too much good nature for her own
good, if such can be the case, and she takes
the cares of life so good-naturedly.  Read-
ers her name is Haskell and her children
seemed happily organized like herself, her
little home is so neat and clean that I
thought what a paradise where order and
contentment dwells.  My space will not ad-
mit of the many items that might interest;
therefore I will pass on until I arrive at
Cedar; Eld. Erastus Snow had kindly tele-
graphed and made appointments ahead of
me. Here the Relief Society sisters had
prepared a dinner at Bishop Lunts, the
very air seemed to breathe forth a spirit of
welcome. The Bishop supports and aids
the movements of the sisters, and they co-
operate in their efforts in building up the
kingdom. At Parowan, another principal
city, Br. Jesse Smith is the Bishop, and
his wife is president of the Relief Society,
a very able and intelligent laborer and much
respected by the sisters.  Bishop Smith's
mother who is very aged, is one of those
lovely old ladies that win the respect and
esteem of everybody around them. At
Kenner, another large settlement, I stayed
and held two meetings, and some of the
sisters accompanied me to Minersville and
we had a season of rejoicing together. Bish-
op Murdock aided me in telegraphing
ahead for conveyances &c.  As I arrived at
Cove Creek, Sister Hinckley favored me
with a change of horses, one of them a
fine-looking animal was called scorchel as
he had been burned in Bro. Well's barn.
Fillmore is the next large city, I was ac-
companied to meeting by Eld. Marien Ly-
man, and the powerful testimony he bore
corresponded much with the spirit of the
times. After leaving there I held meet-
ings at the intervening places including
Nephi, at which place I was furnished with
a conveyance which took me to the Termi
nus.
	E. S. B.
	Elvira S. B[---]


A SMART QUAKER

	Mr. —, the Quaker president on
Pennsylvania railroad, during the convul-
sion some years since, called upon the
W— bank, with which the road kept a
large regular account, and asked for an ex-
tension of part of its paper falling due in a
few days. The bank president declined
rather abruptly, saying in a rough tone to
the functionary:
	"Mr. K— , your paper must be paid at
maturity; we cannot renew it."
	"Very well," our Quaker friend replied,
and left the bank.
	But he did not let the matter rest here.
On leaving the bank, he went quickly to
the depot, and telegraphed to all agents
and conductors on the road to reject the
W— bank.
	In a few hours the trains began to arrive,
full of panic, and bringing news of the
distrust of the W— bank all along the
line. Stockholders and depositors flocked
to the bank quaking with panic, inquiring
thus:
	"What is the matter? Is the bank
broke?"
	A little inquiry by the officers showed
that the trouble originated in the rejection
of the bills on the railroad. The president
seized his hat and rushed down to the Qua-
ker's office, and came bursting in with the
inquiry:
	"Mr. K—, have you directed the re-
fusal of our currency by your agents?"
	"Yes," was the quiet reply.
	"Why is this? It will ruin us."
	"Well, friend L—, I supposed the bank
was going to fail, as it could not renew a
little paper for us this morning."
	It is needless to say Mr. L— renewed
all the Quaker's papers, and enlarged his
line of discount; while the magic wires
carried all around the road the sedative
message<jid hot="" let="" the="" matter="" rest="" lihro.="" on="" leaving="" bank,="" he="" went="" quickly="" ’to="" depot,="" and="" telegraphed="" to="" all="" ‘agents="" conductors="" tlio="" roau="" reject="" w------banc,="" ,="" j-="" ,v'(="" in="" a="" few="" hour3="" the.="" trains="" began="" arrive,="" fpll="" ,pf...panic,="" ;andbringing.="" nows..pf?="" distrust.,o="" ,w-----kajnk-="" ill="" ulpug="" liner="" (.stocjchqiders="" and:="" d6psitors.="" uoc$i="" l.t'ip'biink="" quaking,="" w.ith="" .panic.="" inquiring'="" d.wluit="" is="" matter?-="" bank="" broke?”="" ;="" n="" ...="" little="" .inquiry,="" by="" the'="" offleerssjiowe&="" iikt"="" tlio'trouble="" originate#1="" ih="" 'tfib="" ‘rejehmoh1="" i="" 6f="" .'(hbllls="" b="" h="" e"ta="" jfroil="" d,="" r="" '.tn="" e1="" pvestd="" e="" ejze'd="" hils="" sift="" and“rusfieddbwn-:to="" fhe’quu-:="" k‘er="" pibcb,!="" came="" bu’rstirig'iti'="" with="" thb'="" inquiry:="" '="">:
	"The W— bank is all right. Thee may
take all its currency."


OFTEN do we think when we ought to
act, and act when it behooves us to reflect;
hence caution is frequently as fatal as rash-
ness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN NOW AND THEN.[
[Column 1]
	WOMAN NOW AND THEN
	EXTRACTS FROM A LECTURE BY MISS HIND-
	MAN, OF PITTSBURG, PENN., DELIVERED
	IN DAVENPORT, IOVA, RECENTLY.
	The lady opened her discourse with a ref-
erence to the struggle between conservatism
and radicalism that had charactized the
world's history, and said that all changes
for the better had been produced first by
impression of wrong, then by conviction,
then by agitation, followed by conflict. She
gave a brief review of the condition of wo-
men in different ages and countries, com-
paring what has been with what is. The
history of Woman is very dark. A great
gulf, over which she could not pass, lay be-
tween her and man. Socially, intellectual-
ly, religiously and politically, Woman had
in the past been treated as an inferior. The
laws and customs of Turkey, China, India,
England, France and Germany concerning
Woman were referred to; the laws made in
reference to her were oppressive and de-
grading in all these lands. In some, laws
were made forbidding her to eat at the table
with her husband, or even to taste food un-
til he and his friends were served. In oth-
ers, there were laws forbidding her to visit,
or even to smile, in the absence of her hus-
band. In some countries she was held in
subjection, beaten, and even sold, by her
father and husband, while others considered
her a soulless being, created for the comfort
and convenience of man in this life alone.
	Some amusing extracts from works of the
leading writers of the last century were
read to show the opinion of the authors
concerning women then, and down even as
late as our own time. One of the great
German writers gives his opinion in these
words: "The woman who thinks is, like the
man who paints and powders, simply ridicu-
lous." A leading French writer says; "We
like to hear a few words of sense from a
woman, as we do from a parrot, because
they are so unexpected." In the past Wo-
man was not allowed to express thought
publicly, it was immodest and extremely
unwomanly. With this was contrasted the
NOW of Woman, which in a measure stood
bright colors compared with past. Woman
is now treated as man's equal in almost
every respect, in all Christian conntries;
especially in our Republic is this true. Em-
ployment of various kinds are now open to
women. They can enter the different pro-
fessions. The colleges and schools have
thrown open their doors. The platform is
free to her; she can be editor, author or
journalist, and no stigma is attached. Many
of the most oppressive and degrading laws
have been repealed. Her condition in every
respect is different, her freedom enlarged,
and yet it has in no way proved an injury
to either man or woman, women are as lov-
ing, gentle, and kind as modest, pure and
womanly; men as noble, brave and true, as
before Woman had attained the liberty she
now possess. But the better day has just
dawned. Many are the obstacles to be re-
moved, and difficulties to overcome before
the full completion comes, Woman must be
freed from the slavery and folly of fashion.
Legally she still occupies an inferior position,
and not until Woman has freedom to express
her thoughts can the evils that now exist
be remedied.
	Miss Hindman spoke of the laws that bear
most heavily upon Woman. Liquor laws,
property laws, and laws binding as though
enacted by legislature, deprive her of just
remuneration for her labor. Woman is not
protected in her home, her wages, reputation
or property, as a man, neither can be until

[Column 2]
she is man's political equal. This last
thought was enlarged upon with much ear-
nestness, and the benefits that would result
from giving woman the ballot were por-
trayed in a graphic manner.


PIPSEY PAPERS.
	My articles have been a failure as regards
regularity, but I must plead the busy sea-
son and sickness as my excuse. I have felt
as though I could not collect my thoughts
sufficiently to commit them to paper in a
form that would be interesting to any one.
Since writing last I have parted with my
dear mother; worn out with labor and long
suffering she has closed her eyes to this
world of weariness and care and gone to
dwell with the angels of light and love.
	It wounds my heart sorely to be separated
from her, but I cannot grieve, for I know
that she is far happier than she could be in
this world of care, and to her of constant
suffering, and I only pray that my course
through life may be such that I may be
permitted to join her in the eternal world,
and receive an exaltation with the saints of
God.
	Our Relief Society is dull, we have no one
in need, but are all very poor (in our own
estimation at least) and very busy, but I
think we all mean to do about right, and if
there was a case of want we should find
something for relief. I believe the sisters
are all right in principle and faith, but like
myself they are so busy, and each one
thinks there is not much depending on her
as an individual. They do not realize that
every individual makes the whole. How
often our lives are judged by comparison.
I have felt fretted sometimes because I had
not means to spend as I wanted; but to-day
a sister said to me, "how very comfortable
you are how very differently situated from
what I am, you have a husband who pro-
vides for you a comfortable living, and do
not find yourself hedged in on every side
for want of means to make you comfortable."
I called to see a poor woman who knits for
me sometimes; as I looked around on the
bare walls, her ragged children and the gen-
eral forlorn aspect of all her surroundings,
I wondered how I could complain. She had
some good apples which she took pleasure
in bestowing on me, and I found that no pov-
erty however abject could rob us of all pleas-
ure, if we only sought it in a spirit of chris-
tian meekness. Let us then meet all diffi-
culties with fortitude, and instead of com-
paring our lives with those more prosperous,
let us go to the weak and the lowly, to those
burdened with care and cast down in sor-
row, and instead of repining at the hand of
adversity let us try to cheer and bless oth-
ers. Let us give of our comparative abund-
ance something to comfort the lives and
strengthen the hearts of those who are
fainting in life's weary struggle, and how
much more pleasant our own lives will
seem, for truly it is more blessed to give
than to receive and if we impart comfort to
others God will impart a portion of it to
our own hearts.
	This is a beautiful world after all if we
will only seek for God's glory and be thank-
ful for His care. His loving hand is over
us continually even in chastening us. He
is seeking our best good, if we will but bow
unto the rod and purify our hearts before
him, that His spirit may enter in and abide
with us, instead of fretting our lives away
in vain regrets and filling our hearts with
bitterness and uncharitableness towards
God and our fellow men.
MARY. <rt52kl' 3-1="" od="" no="" uvtlvt'iiz="" i="" ,msih="" jdaity.="" ".="">


EDGAR ALLEN POE

	The monument erected at Baltimore over
the grave of Edgar Allan Poe was unveiled
and dedicated November 17, in the presence
of a large number of spectators.  It was
tardy justice to the memory of a man who,
whatever his faults of character, was a great
genius.  The scene presented a striking
contrast with the burial of the poet on a 
dreary October morning twenty-six years
ago, when a single carriage followed his re-
mains to the grave in Westminster church-
yard, where he was laid at rest beside his
ancestors. The services, which were held
in a hall adjoining Westminster Church,
consisted of addresses by Professor Henry
E. Shepherd and Mr. John H. Latrobe, the
reading of a fine poem by William Winter,
and of letters from Tennyson, Bryant, Whit-
tier, and others.
	At the conclusion of these services the
assemblage withdrew from the hall and
went to the church-yard, where the inter-
esting ceremony of unveiling the monu-
ment took place. This was performed by
Miss Sarah S. Rice, of the Western High
School, Baltimore, who from first to last
has taken the most active interest in the
erection of the monument. She was assist-
ed by the ladies who took part in the first
literary entertainment in aid of the Poe
Monument Association in the autumn of
1865. As the drapery gracefully fell from
the marble, the Philharmonic Society of
Baltimore, composed of one hundred of the
best singers in the city, chanted a dirge
which had been composed for the occasion
by Mrs. Eleanor A. Fullerton.
	The monument is made of the purest
white marble from Maryland quarries. It
stands upon a granite base about eighteen
feet high, and is placed over the poet's
grave.  It has on one side a finely-executed
medallion bust of the poet, taken from a 
photograph copy of an original daguereo-
type.  It is said to be an excellent likeness.
Beneath the bust is inscribed the name
"Edgar Allan Poe." On the opposite side
is the following inscription:

Born January 20th, 1809,
Died October 7th, 1849.

	A place has been left for an epitaph, which
it is expected will be written by Alfred
Tennyson.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Babies Teething.—Two ivory martingale
rings tied together with a short string are prefera-
able to rubber, which contains mineral liable to
injure the little teeth.

	Poison or Canker.—Pure Olive oil (sweet oil)
administered freely is an excellent remedy for
either of these ills. It is also one of the safest
and best remedies for diarraehea with children.

	For Catarrh.—To take a wide-mouthed glass
bottle fill loosely with cotton and pour into it a
spoonful or two each, of spirits of turpentine,
camphor, ammonia and hemlock, inhale frequently
through the nose and now and then into the mouth,
gives great relief from suffering and will also cure
effectually. The same ingredients mixed without
the cotton, and with oil to lessen the intensity of
the spirits, make one of the best lineaments for
sore throat, swellings &c.

	Sun Bath.—This is the most refreshing and
life-giving bath that can possibly be taken. Liv-
ing and sleeping in a room into which the sun
never shines is a slow and miserable form of sui-
cide.


INSTEAD of striving for fame and pow-
er, seek integrity and goodness.


128	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE FRANCHISE IN SAN FRANCISCO.
	I am glad to know that there is one per-
son who can see the wisdom (?) of being
obliged to fold his ticket just four times,
&c., &c. Why, if all the minutae of politi-
cal life and government have to be brought
down to so nice a point and every one treat-
ed as a knave, what a life this will be, and
how laborious and expensive!
	"Steerforth" seems to infer that I spoke
without being familiar with the law I was
writing of. I was fully acquainted with it,
and spoke from my own standpoint of judg-
ment in regard to it. Since then I have
heard some of our ablest politicians and
professional men ridicule this same law se-
verely—as though a corporation could not
control the vote of their employees outside
of the prescribed hundred feet as firmly as
inside the hundred feet! This political
wire-pulling and money control of every-
thing in life is disgraceful to an independ-
ent people.
	If I could vote I would like to see the
person who could control my vote folded or
not folded, within or beyond a hundred feet
of the polls. I think the feminine charac-
ter is more decided and individual in all
that it believes to be right, and could wo-
men vote there would be fewer feminine
votes sold—even for a new dress—than mas-
culine votes for a glass of whiskey.
	I should think employees would want the
perfect freedom of their vote to put in pow-
er a class who would not cripple them with
wrong influence, and any attempt to control
them thus ought to meet with co-operative
or at least individual, rebellion. Progress
comes through independence of judgment,
and it seems to me that one's vote should
be the last act of freedom to sell.
	BETH.
	San Francisco, Cal.


LEARN TO SING.
	A woman who cannot sing is as a flower
without perfume, a butterfly without wings.
I do not mean you must sing scales and
trills by the hour; those notions have left
me long ago. Learn operatic wonders, if
you like, only be sure to learn them correctly,
but they are easily forgotten, rest assured.
Learn a hundred or more beautiful little
ballads. Not the kind that take a town by
storm and die out in a season, but real songs
that never grow old, whose tunes are mel-
ody and whose words are poetry.  You will
find happiness, when your lover bends over
you eager to whisper a secret you are ready
to hear, that your joy and your love, your
modesty and your pride blend more sweetly
when you sing "Annie Laurie" or "Within
a Mile of Edinboro' Town," than in execut-
ing the most wonderful gymnastics with
your vocal organs. In sorrow, some such
song, with all the sweet memories of the
past clinging about its tender notes, will call
forth tears to ease an aching heart.
	Then there comes to every blessed woman
a time when a weary little head lies on her
bosom, little eyelids are drooping, twilight
is drawing about her—too early for a lamp,
too early for any but little folks to sleep;
then it is that all the accomplishments of
her girlhood are as nothing compared to one
simple song that lulls a tired baby to sleep.
There is something soothing to the child in
the mother's voice at any time and it in-
stinctively loves the melody of song; so
girls, while you can, think of the mine of
wealth you can lay up for the children that
will come by and by with their smiles and
their kisses to brighten the way.—Selected.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	DON'T write long obituaries. Save some
of your kind words for those living.
	MANY run  after happiness, like an
absent-minded man hunting for his hat
while it is on his head or in his hand.
	HE who will not take cheap advice will
have to bear dear repentance.
	WE are oftener deceived by being told
some truth than no truth.
	PLATO said the Creator has so framed his
laws that it is for the advantage of every
one to observe them.
	THE miseries of the poor are as sacred as
those of the rich; and the rich have miser-
ies in spite of their riches.
	PROVIDENCE has decreed that those com-
mon acquisitions—money, gems, plate, no-
ble mansions and dominion—should be
sometimes bestowed on the indolent and
unworthy; but those things which consti-
tute our true riches, and which are properly
our own, must be procured by our own la-
bor.


[Column 1]
		NOTICE.
	The undersigned begs to inform the public, she has
sure and safe remedies for Disentery, Diarrhœa, Coughs,
Canker, Cramp, Palpitation of the Heart, Liver and Lung
complaints, Bruises, Itch, Yellow Jaundice Female
Weaknesses of all kinds and premature births a specialty.
Ladies accommodated with rooms at my residence during
confinement.
	NICKOLINE OLSEN, Exam. Midwife. 4 1-2 blocks South
of Street car Station. 4th East St., 2nd Ward,

		AT TEASDEL'S
      On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES, Supt. 

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 30[-], Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
MILLINERY.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.  

Z. C. M. I. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
ONE YEAR. 

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S 
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
	S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION 
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
		29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1876.	No. 17.


LINES, 

 DEDICATED TO BISHOP NATHAN DAVIS
ON HIS RESIGNATION OF THE BISHOPRIC
OF THE SEVENTEENTH WARD, AND THE
PRESENTATION OF A PICTURE.
       
        Dear friend, as we must sever,
	 The ties we formed so long ago.
	Deep in our hearts thy memory ever
	 Will be stamped—as ages flow.

	Like a father, kind and gentle
	 Thou hast ever been, and true,
	And with kindness and affection
	 We have ever looked to you.

	Of our number one has left us
	 Since that evening long ago,
	When thou gav'st to us thy blessing-
	 And our hearts have ached with woe,

	E'en as Jacob for his Rachel
	 Toiled seven years to gain her hand,
	So Eliza, "bless her memory"
	 Strove to reach the "Promised Land,"

	As a token of affection
	 And regard we have for you,
	We present this picture asking
	 Heaven's choicest blessing too.

	And now the parting sad is spoken,
	 And we thy sisters of the Ward,
	Have said "Good Bye" in tones all broken-
	 And leave thy future with the Lord.

	Of thy life the better apart
	 Thou hast spent in earnest toil
	In the Vineyard of thy Master,
	 Sewing deep in Heavenly soil.

	Thy reward is sure aud certain
	 When thy work on earth is done,
	Treasures bright and everlasting
	 In the land of Noon-day Sun.

	Thou wilt have the glad word spoken,
	 "Faithful servant welcome home"
	For thy life work, ever trying
	 Has been well and nobly done.

						MRS. C. A. ALDER
Dec. 24, 1875.
	*Sister Eliza A. Felt, died June 19th, 1875, Treasurer
of the Society.


[Column 1]
SEND HIM THE PROOF.
	Governor Emery in his message, as re-
ferred to by us yesterday, made a statement
about the young men and women born and
reared in Utah, which ought not to pass with-
out further notice. In addition to our de-
nial of the Governor's charge of their ignor-
ance, we now take occasion to say that we
could produce a great number of young
men, born and reared in Utah, who could
read the message he delivered on Tuesday
in a far better manner than the Governor's
own style of communication. And further,
that there are many young ladies, born and
reared in Utah who excel the Governor in
the art of reading, and equal him in the art
of composition.
	The gentleman may not believe this. We
should like him to be convinced. It is not
probable that he will accept our statements,
in opposition to the allegations of those who
have taken the trouble to influence him by
misrepresentations. We propose that he
shall receive convincing evidence. We rec-
ommend that a number of young men and
ladies, born and reared in Utah, write to the
Governor over their own signature, and
prove to him whether, upon entering on the
duties and obligations of life, they are "des-

[Column 2]
titute of the simplest rudiments of educa-
tion." If they will furnish copies to the
Junction, we promise to publish them, un-
less they pour in too great numbers, in
which case we will refer to them and pub-
lish the names of the writers.
	We know that there are a great many pu-
pils of the Ogden Seminary, of both sexes,
who are fully competent to give any reason-
able person ample proof that the Gover-
nor's statement is incorrect, and that he has
been wrongly informed.
	Utah has no reason to be ashamed of a
large portion of her youth, nor of their ed-
ucation. Driven from their possessions by
ruthless mobs, the early settlers of this Ter-
ritory could offer few facilities for the edu-
cation of their children. But such as were
possible, under the peculiar circumstances
which surrounded them, were extended,
and the wonder is that they did so well.
As years rolled on and conditions changed
and improved, the cause of education ob-
tained greater attention and assistance, and
during the past few years opportunities
have been placed within the reach of the
rising generation to become acquainted, not
only with the "simplest rudiments" of edu-
cation, but with the higher branches of
learning, such as are not afforded in little
country villages, of similar size and popu-
lation to ours, in older settled districts.
	The hue-and-cry that has been raised
about education in Utah, and the animad-
versions of a few brawlers who are on the
lookout for an official position to secure that
bread and butter which they will not earn
by the sweat of their brows are as unjust as
other calumnies against the old settlers of
this Territory; and we hope the Governor,
on better information, will refuse to be in-
fluenced by the reports of the people's en-
emies.—Ogden Junction.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.
	A NEW daily paper in Middletown Conn.,
has recently been established; a woman's
paper advocating Woman's Suffrage. It is
called the "Sentinel."
	A MASS convention was held in Denver
on the tenth of January last, by the Suffra-
gists to secure Woman's Suffrage in the new
constitution.
	A BRONZE statue of Cromwell has been
presented to the city of Manchester Eng-
land, by Mrs. Abel Heywood. It is nine
feet high and weighs more than a ton,
and rests on a block of rough hewn granite.
Cromwell is represented in the military cos-
tume of the period, and his features are
dignified and impressive. The cost of the
statue is 8,000 dollars.—Ex.
	IT IS reported that the volcano of Vesu-
vius gives signs of an approaching eruption.
The large crater which has been formed
since the last disturbance emits a black
smoke, which has invariably been a symp
tom of volcanic activity, although it is im-
possible to tell what time may elapse before
the actual eruption takes place. Similar
appearances were noticed in Dec. 1851, but
real action did not commence until May,
1855.

[Column 2]
	ONE OF the literary memorials of the
Centennial cannot well fail to prove highly
interesting, viz. a "History of the United
States," now being pushed to completion by
William Cullen Bryant, the poet-journalist,
and Sidney Howard Gay, for many years
managing editor of the New York Tribune.
This history gives a large space to the pre-
historic races of Amerca, the mound-build-
ers, and those of the Old World, people
who came to America before Columbus.
Mechanically, the work is an extensieve en-
terprise in book-making. It will be com-
pleted in four octavo volumes of 600 pages
each, and the first cost of the work will
reach $100,000.
	THE MARRIED Women's Property Com-
mittee in England consists of twenty-five
members; among them are Sir Charles W.
Dilke, Bart., M. P.; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob
Bright; Miss Frances Power Cobbe; Mrs.
Wolstenholme Elmy; Miss Josephine E.
Butler, well known to the world. This
committee have issued a circular, which il-
lustrates something of women's work in
Great Britain. This circular is not political
and yet is equally important, and insepara-
ble from the Suffrage Movement itself.
The object is an amendment of the Woman's
Property Bill, to secure as a married wo-
man her own property, and to make her
liable for her own contracts as if she were
a single woman." It is anticipated the
amendment of this bill will be introduced
at the beginning of the next session of
Parliament by the Right Hon. Russell Gur-
ney, M. P. if he is in England then, if not
by G. J. Shon Lefovre Esq., M. P. In 18-
70, The Married Woman's Property Bill that
was passed, although a very defective aud
and inconsitent one, and differing widely
from the bill which they had endeavored to
promote, yet conferred an immense boon
upon women of the working classes. They
insist that the consequence of that bill was
that a similar measure was passed by the
Legislature in Victoria (Australia) and also
in Ontario, (Canada) and also caused an
amendment of the law which had been ac-
cepted by the Swedish Legislature. There
is no doubt that all these movements carry
an influence and that those who work for
the elevation of woman and the recognition
of her rights in any country, are also work-
ing for all.


THERE IS much of our early gladness that
vanishes utterly from our memory; we can
never recall the joy with which we laid our
head on our mother's bosom, or rode on
our father's back in childhood, doubtless
that joy is wrought up into our nature, as
the sunlight of long past mornings is
wrought up in the soft mellowness of ripe
fruits, but it is gone forever from our imag-
ination, and we can only believe in the joy
of childhood. But the first glad moment
in our first love is a vision which returns
to us to the last, and brings with it a thrill
of feeling intense and special as the recur-
rent sensation of a sweet odor breathed in a
far-off hour of happiness. It is a memory
that gives a more exquisite touch to tender-
ness, that feeds the madness of jealousy,
and adds the last keenness to the agony of
despair.


130	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.
	The minutes of the young ladies' meet-
<th'feni‘'liiav6' b’ebiij="" ¥e-b'dptd="" -f="" .qilr1:="" meetirigsarid'ae="" 11y"ait6ndetl'a="" g5671="" '‘spirit'="" prev'ails.1="" [vd="" 'hdve="" dxdell'dnl="" ‘ihsvjnlctio'nd!="" 1="" from="" b'ur="" fr'csident11="" ml-si="" ‘="" maj'aj="" ivhydbi'1="" the1="" people="" irt="" ;="" gfehvral="" 6h]dy="" :1goo'dh'diiltli0="" m'ufcli="" more="" sd:fmh="" tli6y="" havbjd6rie'’mj!pfe:'1="" vibud'aintdr1="" jl="" jwsr:up?rtf="" loiaosi="" ao-i.="" in="" we:hhvb="" had="" an'‘ekiellchf="" tjtichersieci="" lgvto-day,="" rn="" which="" the'spirii'="" off="" godovas1'1="" vu="" society="" vas="" organizedrand="" there="" never="" beenfilscbvlforiu,="" dlssenyfng="" m)ibfe="" ihhdllr="" nyfiry.="" callhad="" been="" com.="" plied="" witiureadily,="" qs="" far="" as="" it="" wa3="" possible="" oni="" ci="" koipos="" :l-:ru:l="" i-werei;ilthw:':="" ..="" seerbtary.="" -no="" ,01="" ):lt="" tbiiw-'q="" p="" —'wt?..-to="" on="" j;va="" r-="" 118707'’="" dear'tex:="" ’bxnt:="" ,;i="" u="" '-="" the="" young="" eadlbv'liuehenilcht',oti="" ty="" bf,rstirbharle.<i:="" bbar'.="" rlvnrv="" aivr.'rrtl.'at="" tfith="" fl1="" cietyr="" territory,="" was="" !uorgiiniibd="" th;j="" 3875v="" by;'siwr="" weslnclltimhbll.="" 'iiri="" a’jl="" jfiss="" airiy="" tj.="" lakerbresld'enlr,="" noivf="" i!-="" i-f="" :i="" a="" :="" ,.<.="" ru.1="" juomoji.jt!="" j'io!="" mrs.="" nancy="" e.="" pugrntrc,,..="" v[3mnv="" n-=""><ilefy; som;e.ofj="" the="" ybung'ladies="" gathered="" stravv:="" last?="" imbr'and="" we="" 'brd="" preparing1="" tohave;="" itiftiirili’j-d="" ifactqrecl="" into="" hats.="" slstbr="" bresinda="" kihdt="" ball'gavo="" us'sbtrib'bxdellbrtt!nsvrtifctlbtis'drid--="" advice="" while="" hcrlh="" tiitdf="" i="" think="" ‘if="" will="" h'dsd'="" a="" lastvng="" irapressioh="" ort’="" thb="" :mihtis,jbjthhgb="" -'="" avho="" worb="" present,="" ‘"="" i’he="" has="" tilde:="" 'best="" avistfb1bf,ihfe‘s6bl6(y="" -fbi’its="" ildvitnce1'="" mehtl,:l="" '="" ’1="" c="" i.a="" -="" orif="" bjuiliu;:e="" llsfirf,.'sbcv.lita:f:="" oiti="" no="" oi:="" otivv="" ctolvvmj="" 't="" <;="" lo="" -n.iriov="" idefe="" aiko="" j.jn="" ffi="" ,v="" nit="" j;="" idm="" m:="" bi:id="" jbel(the="" many="" friondsi="" of;thetreliehso-1.!="" cisties="" avbulddje="" gfilduodearn-through;="" yourjo="" valuable="" paper="" how?="" wo="">ings, which were read in the General Meet-
ing in the Fourteenth Ward, on Saturday,
Jan. 22nd, were peculiarly interesting and
instructive. Most of the wards in the city
were represented, and the rapid improve-
ment which, as was clearly evinced, is be-
ing made by the young ladies of the Re-
trenchment Associations, is really pleasing,
and would be surprising to one unacquaint-
ed with the fact that GOD is with them, 
strengthening and enlightening their minds.
—The testimonies borne by many of the sis-
ters, were also exceedingly gratifying. 
President Mrs. M. I. Horne not being pres-
ent the meeting was conducted by Counsel-
or Miss E. R. Snow, who spoke encourag-
ingly of the progress of the young in Zion,
and exhorted her sisters to be diligent and
faithful. She also spoke concerning the Cen-
tennial, and was anxious that the ladies of
Utah should make as fair representation as
possible, considering the little time existing
between the present, and the time for the
opening of the Exhibition at Philadelphia.
Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball also spoke
in a spirited and patriotic manner concern-
ing the Centennial Exhibition; felt, as she
was sure every intelligent person must feel,
an individual interest in this great Nation-
al affair. 
	SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 24th, 1876.
	The Relief Society of the Eighth Ward
met on the 6th of Jan. 1876 for their Annu-
al Meeting. After the opening of the meet-
ing the receipts and disbursments of the
year were read and showed that considera-
ble had been done in this ward. Our Presi-
dent Mrs. Leaver and Counselors Needham
and Steel are faithful in looking after the
poor and sick. The Spirit of the Lord is
with us, and we have good meetings. Many
are renewing their covenants and are de-
termined to live up to the principles of the
Gospel. After the business of the meeting
was attended to, Sisters Young, Howard,
Goddard and Park addressed the sisters and
gave good instructions. Sister E. S. Bar-
ney read a circular from the Ladies Depart-
ment, Territorial Board of Managers, solici-
ting the energetic co-operation of the Re-
lief Societies in preparing specimens of
HOME INDUSTRIES both useful and ornamen-
tal for the National Centennial, and that a
committee be appointed in each ward for
the purpose of accomplishing as soon as pos-
sible the articles to be forwarded to the 
TREASURER. Sister Annie Cross and Esther
B. Fletcher were appointed as Committee
for the Eighth Ward Relief Society. Bishop
Sheets desired the sisters to retrench in all
things, and to live their religion, and try to
be faithful to the end and left his blessing
with us. 
	ESTHER B. FLETCHER,
	Secretary.
	SPRING CITY, SANPETE Co. Jan. 10[-]76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters here are alive to their duties,
they are striving to do all they can to for-
ward the work they are engaged in; the
most of them have been re-baptized. Our
meetings are well attended, a good spirit
prevails. We have excellent instructions
from our President Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde.
The people in general enjoy good health,
much more so than they have done in pre-
vious winters.
	We have had an excellent Teachers Meet-
ing to-day, in which the Spirit of God was

[Column 2]
greatly manifested. Pres. Mrs. Hyde pre-
sented the CIRCULAR which had been sent
to the Society concerning the Centennial.
A committee was called to prepare some-
thing to be sent from here to the Centennial
Exhibition. It was remarked to-day that
it had been seven years since our Relief
Society was organized, and there had never
been a discord, or a dissenting voice in all
that time; and every call had been com-
plied with readily, as far as it was possible.
	MRS. P. E. BENSON,
	Secretary.
	ST. CHARLES, Jan. 19th, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment So-
ciety of St. Charles, Bear Lake Co., Idaho
Territory, was organized September 6th,
1875, by Sister Presinda Kimball.
	Miss Amy E. Laker, President,
	Mrs. Nancy E. Pugmire,
	"	Sarah Allred,
	"	Eliza W. Brewer,
	"	Orissa A. Williamson,	Counselors.
	Miss Mary Jacobs,
	Mrs. Laura A. Johnson,
	"	Nancy Hunt,
	"	Maria M. Beers, Superintendent,
	Miss Lizzie M. Pugmire, Secretary.
	Twenty-five young ladies were admitted
as members of the Society. Our meetings
are well attended and all take a great inter-
est in the welfare of the Society. Some of
the young ladies gathered straw last sum-
mer and we are preparing to have it manu-
factured into hats. Sister Presinda Kim-
ball gave us some excellent instructions and
advice while here, and I think it will have
a lasting impression on the minds of those
who were present. The EXPONENT has the
best wishes of the society for its advance-
ment.
	LIZZIE M. PUGMIRE, Sec'y.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I feel the many friends of the Relief So-
cieties would be glad to learn through your
valuable paper how we are progressing in
Ogden. During the last year we have not
only gained in numbers but I trust in the
Spirit of the Lord also. May the blessings
of God rest upon Sister E. R. Snow for the
seasons of rejoicing we have had through
her meeting with us, also the other sisters
that have at times accompanied her. The
sisters here seem anxious and willing to do
all they can to assist our worthy and much
loved President, Mrs. J. S. Richards
who is ever ready to comfort the sick
and assist the needy. On the 16th of De-
cember 1875, we held our Annual Meet
ing it was 8 years since the Relief Society
had been organized here in Ogden. Presi-
dent F. D. Richards met with us. In the
evening we had a good old-fashioned old
folks dance; all expressed themselves that
it was the best dance they ever attended.
By counsel we have arranged to choose our
officers once a year, or sustain those in office
according to the feelings of the sisters.
The same officers were chosen by a unani-
mous vote. During the last year we have
started the Straw Business and proved it a
success; we have considerable braid on hand
ready for spring.
	We have disbursed over $1,011,50 to straw
work and to the poor; we have on hand
property amounting to over $250. May
God prosper and bless all the Relief Socie-
ties that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized.
	A. M. FRODSHAM,
	Secretary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel that I would like to write a few
lines to your paper, but I am like many
more, that have not been in the habit of
writing to the public, who feel a backward-
ness that ought to be put aside from us, for
I see that we are called upon to speak our
minds, and write also that we may repre-
sent ourselves. I am happy to say that our
Relief Society is in a pretty good condition
at present, and many are alive to their du-
ties. We have not started anything yet in
HOME INDUSTRY, but I think next summer
we will try to make a start in raising silk;
we have the mulberry trees here in the set-
tlement, and we do not wish to be behind
our sisters. We had Sisters E. R. Snow
and M. I. Horne visit us a short time ago,
and they gave us some excellent advice
showing the necessity of our becoming a
self-sustaining people; we had a general
time of rejoicing for the Spirit of God was
in our midst. I believe we have nearly all
renewed our covenants, and hope we shall,
one and all, live nearer our God in '76, than
we have in the past; for I feel there is a
cloud hanging over us that will become
darker and darker, if we give way to
our foolish fancies which we have inherited
from the world. I heard a letter read that
was sent to all the Bishops concerning
dancing, which I believe will result in very
great good for our young people. But there
will be many that will not see it in the prop-
er light yet; but with careful training we
can accomplish much. With good wishes
for all the household of faith, I remain
your sister in the Gospel.
	P. S. H.
	West Weber, Jan, 15th 1875.


ORIGIN OF THE WATER CURE. — The wa-
ter-cure, or hydropathy, ows its origin to
the fertility of invention of a Silesian peas-
ant, Vincenz-Priessnitx. Having at the age
of thirteen sprained his wrist, young Priess-
nitx intuitively applied it to the pump; and
afterward, to continue the relief thus ob-
tained, he bound upon it a wet bandage.
Rewetting this as it became dry, he re-
duced the inflammation, but excited a rash on
the surface of the part. Soon after, having
crushed his thumb, he again applied the
bandage, and the pain once more subsided,
but the rash reappeared. He inferred that
the rash indicated an impure blood; and
this conclusion was strengthened by the re-
sult of experiments which he was induced
to try upon injuries and ulcers in the case
of some of his neighbors, since the rash in
some instances appeared after the treatment
and in others did not. Thus he was led to
frame for himself a humoral pathology of all
diseases and a doctrine of the elimination
of morbific matter by "crisis."
	According to this view, the cure of dis-
eases is to be affected by favoring the activ-
ity of these organs through which the pu-
rification of the system is carried on, and,
through a regulated and pure dietary and
correct regimen, preventing further morbid
accumulations. In his nineteenth year be-
ing run over by a cart, Priessnitx had some
ribs broken and received severe bruises; on
learning that the physicians pronounced his
case hopeless, he tore off their bandages,
and recovered under the renewed applica-
tion of his bandage, and replaced the ribs by
inflating the lungs while pressing the abdo-
men against a window sill. This instance
confirmed the idea, and initiated the prac-
tice of the water-cure. — EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	131


THE LOST BABIES.

Come my wife, put down the Bible,
	Lay your glasses on the book,
Both of us are bent and aged—
	Backward, mother, let us look
This is still the same old homestead
	Where I brought you long ago,
When the hair was bright with sunshine
	That is now like winter's snow.
Let us talk about the babies
	As we sit here all alone.
Such a merry troop of youngsters;
	How we lost them one by one.

Jack, the first of all the party,
	Came to us one winter's night.
Jack, you said, should be a parson,
	Long before he saw the light.
Do you see that great cathedral,
	Filled the transept, and the nave,
Hear the organ grandly pealing,
	Watch the silken bangings wave;
See the priest in robes of office,
	With the alter at his back-
Would you think that gifted preacher
	Could be our own little Jack?

Then a girl with curly tresses
	Used to climb upon my knee,
Like a little fiary princess
	Ruling at the age of three.
With the years there came a wedding—
	How your fond heart swelled with pride
When the lord of all the country
	Chose your baby for his bride!
Watch that stately carriage coming,
	And the form reclining there—
Would you think that brilliant lad
	Could be our own little Clare?

Then the last, a blue-eyed youngster—
	I can hear him prattling now—
Such a strong and sturdy fellow,
	With hi broad and honest brow.
How he used to love his mother,	Ah! I see your trembling lip!
He is far off on the water,
	Captain of a royal ship.
See the bronze upon his forehead,
	Hear the voice of stern command-
That the boy who clung so fondly
	To his mother's gentle hand?

Ah! my wife, we've lost the babies,
	Ours so long and ours alone:
What are we to these great people,
	Stately men and women grown?
Seldom do we even see them:
	Yes, a bitter tear-drop starts,
As we sit here in the fire-light,
	Lonely hearth and lonely hearts.
All their lives are full without us;
	They'll stop long enough one day
Just to lay us in the churchyard,
	Then they'll each go on their way.

—Selected.


For the Exponent.
	REMEMBERED HAPPINESS.

[Column 1]
	One of the English poets says "a thing of
beauty is a joy forever," but I propose to
give another version to that aphorism and
say: Happiness once given, is a "joy for-
ever." How much the happiness of past
days adds to the felicity of the present! A
happy childhood, spent beneath the eye of
parents who were wisely indulgent, diffuses
over the whole life a feeling of calm pleas-
ure and satisfaction, and even in age, is still
a "joy forever." No happiness is confined
to the present moment, for memory renders
it immortal. If any one has added to our
happiness, by their social pleasantry, their
cheerful intelligent conversation, and their
ready attentions; the face of that friend
will rise before us unchanged, years after—
yes all our life, the recollections of that
bright epoch will be a "joy forever." We
recall an agreeable tour through a lovely
country, where we beheld splendid scenery,
and every beauty which nature and art com-
bined could throw together—we made it
with agreeable company, every spirit be-
ing one in a desire to promote the happiness

[Column 2]
of all, we lived a short time with those
spirits, enjoying every day some new and
innocent pleasure. We parted with regret,
perhaps never to meet on earth again, but
was the happiness extinct? No, our im-
pressions were indelible, and they remain a
"joy forever." If we desire to excite our
ideality, we have only to recall these sunny
days of happiness, and the sweet moonlight
of memory beguiles us to a return of the
beautiful and happy. Nothing like the sun-
dial, only the sunny hours of life! Oh!
bless them who have been kind to us in
days that are past! What a treasury is the
remembrance of them—how full of riches
hoarded up with miserly care, were we in
a dungeon its bars and bolts could not rob
us of one iota, but are with us as a "joy for-
ever."
	We recall our youthful homes with their
magical influence and associations, with the
Lares and Penates of those circles, even
our beloved parents, so wise, so good, so
aelf-sacrificing for our comfort and well-be-
ing! The contemplation of these will be a
study through time—yes, till we are reunit-
ed with them; and then again our brothers
and sisters, our friends and playmates, the
co-partners of our infantile joys and sor-
rows, and on them our memory is immor-
tal. Then came the magnates of our riper
years, those with whom our souls conversed
—with whom we took sweet counsel—whose
love to us was "passing the love of women"
though some were of that GENIUS. Those
years, with all their powerful reminiscenses
rise before us, and verily they are "a joy
forever." I have traced but a brief portion
even of the outline; and then there is the
residue, and the filling up of the picture of
happiness that pervades our pathway of life.
The remembrance lives within the pre-
cincts of our own heart and brain, and it is
unto us "a joy forever." Happiness is an
emanation of the Spirit of God, where it ex-
ists the principle of evil can have no lasting
power; it is full of the spirit of life, of love,
of generosity, of all that ennobles humanity;
it enlarges our hearts, expands the mind, in-
creases our intelligence, multiplies our use-
fulness, raises our thoughts and aspirations
to our Great Father who dwells in an at-
mosphere of happiness. Let us then culti-
vate it, and Heaven will be around and
about us; we know not how rich we are un-
til we examine the treasury which God has
bequeathed to His children. Let us help
to make others happy, and if possible teach
the art of acquiring it. The material lies
around all more or less, but we differ so
much in temperament and organism, men-
tally and physically, that each must select
for themselves out of the rich material our
Father has provided us with. Byron wrote:
"The Past is nothing." With such a mind
as he possessed, he could not have been in a
healthy mood when he wrote it.
	"The past is nothing!" Few can say
	Their star of life has left no ray,
	That o'er their retrospective view
	Casts glowing tints of pinky hue.
	I revel in the hoarded Past,
	And bless the die in which 'twas cast.
	Yes—Yes the present will reveal
	The Past is something—woe or weal,
	Is built upon the mighty past
	Which through Eternities may last
	The future is within the Veil,
	Obscure in its unfolded tale.
	But yet whate'er our God's behest,
	Let's bless Him, for we have been blest.
		Hannah T. King.
S. L. City.


FANCIES are the blossoms of facts; pur-
er and lovelier for their strong hold on truth,
just as the fairest roses are grown in the fin-
est soil.


POWER OF KINDNESS.
	In the autumn of 1871, notices were post-
ed in public places in Cadiz, Spain, that on
a certain day the bull El Moro, a magnifi-
cent animal, would be introduced into the
arena of the amphitheatre, and that when
he had been goaded to the uttermost fury,
a young girl would appear and reduce him
to quiet subjection. The girl who was to
act this daring part was a peasant girl, who
had fed and petted the bull during the years
of its growth. On the appointed day, the
vast amphitheatre was packed with an ea-
ger crowd, when, with a terrific roar, El
Moro entered the arena, with eyes of fire
and dilating nostrils. The picadors attacked
him warily, and hurled their banderillas—
small javelins intended to infuriate. When
the creature had killed three horses and re-
ceived eight banderillas in his neck and
shoulders, the signal was given, and he was
left alone in his paroxysm of wrath. Pres-
ently a soft musical note was heard, and a
pretty girl not more than fifteen years of
age, in the tasteful garb of an Andalusian
peasant, sprang lightly into the arena, ap-
proaching the bull fearlessly, at the same
time calling his name—"Moro. Moro! Ya
voy!" At the first sound of the sweet voice,
the animal ceased his fury and turned to-
ward  the girl he plainly manifested pleas-
ure. She came to his head and put forth
her hand, which he licked with his tongue.
Then she sang a low, sweet song, at the
same time caressing the animal by patting
him on the forehead, and while she sang,
the suffering monarch kneeled at her feet.
Then she stooped and gently removed the
cruel banderillas, after which, with her arm
around El Moro's neck, she led him toward
the gate.—Harper's Weekly.
	Is this beautiful exhibition of the power
of womanly kindness typical of the future,
when our political society will be tempered
by the influence of feminine sympathy and
patriotism?—Wouan's Journal.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
	The cotton crop in the South this year
will exceed the limits of 4,000,000 bales.
	THREE car loads of silk-worm eggs val-
ued at $86,000,000 have been taken from
San Francisco to New York recently.
	THE number of hogs killed at Cinncinati
this season was 239,874; for the same time
last year, 253,048.
	THE largest polished plate ever exhibited
was the work of the Thames Plate Glass
Company of England, measuring 19 feet, 5
inches long, and 10, feet 3 inches wide.
IN 1855 the Paris omnibuses carried 40,
000,000 passengers; in 1860, 72,000,000; in
1867, Exhibition year, 121,000,000; in 1869,
119,000,000; in 1971, 78,000,000; in 1872, 111
000,000; and in 1874, over 115,000,000.
	IT is doubtless safe to say that we have as
voters in the United States fully 1,000,000
of men who religiously hold that their first
and highest allegiance is due to the Pope of
Rome.—National Protestant.


AN easy observation of the most common,
sometimes the meanest things in nature,
will give the truest lights, where the great-
est sagacity and industry that slight such
observation must leave us in the dark, or
what is worse, amuse and mislead us by
false lights. In an inquiry, it is almost
everything to be once in a right road.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editors.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
[---], $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p m every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. FEB. 1, 1876.


WARN YOUR GIRLS.

[Column 1]
	It has always been and is still the case, that,
in general, the boys of a family are regarded as
being of more importance that the girls. This
fact is too well understood to require delinea-
tion from us. Nor is it our purpose here, to
discuss the propriety or impropriety of this
custom. But without wishing to see one parti-
cle of interest withdrawn from the boys, it
would still be gratifying to realize that a more
lively and intelligent interest had really been
awakened for the girls. To be effectual and
permanent, such an interest must become an
individual one as well as being so widely
spread; it must be found at home as well as in
congregations of reformers.
	Parents, mothers, are too apt to believe their
daughter so pure minded that there is no dan-
ger of their becoming contaminated. For their
sons there is more fear. They will probably
go out into the world unguarded and alone.
They must be warned of the temptations which
throng life's pathway. They must be taught
that sin leads to death, and that truth and in-
tegrity lead to light and life eternal. O! that
these lessons were more faithfully taught more
indelibly stamped upon the hearts of boys, that
they might be more lastingly remembered and
revered. that every man might be a man of
honor, a man of God! Then, indeed, there
would be less fear for our girls. and they
might well be left in ignorance of what has
been or what might be, to indulge in all the
confidence of unsuspecting innocence.
	But it is not so. and the folly and weakness
of men render it most essential that girls should
be taught something concerning themselves,
the world and some of its miserable ways, be-
fore the time when they may be cast uncere-
moniously upon its deceptive surface.
	The good and wise example of a noble moth-
er, is without doubt. the greatest of all moni-
tors to a conscientious and dutiful daughter.
But this is not enough. She, as well as her
brother should be taught by precept and re-
ceive explanations in relation to various vir-
tues and their opposite evils.
	What true Christian mother ever reared a
son without spending hours, days and even
years in admonishing him? Numberless ex-
amples—like the following, for instance—may
be found every day:
	"Twelve or fifteen years ago," said Ex-Gover-
nor Briggs, "I left Washington three or four
weeks in the Spring. While at home I pos-
sessed myself of the letters of Mr. Adams'
mother and read them with exceeding interest.
I remember an expression in one of the letters
addressed to her son, while yet a boy twelve
years of age, in Europe. She says: 'I would

[Column 2]
rather see you laid in your grave than you
should grow up a profane and graceless [-]oy.'
	After returning to Washington, I went over
to the White House and said to President Ad-
ams, 'I have found who made you!'
	'What do you mean?' he asked. I replied, I
have been reading the letters of your mother.'
	If I had spoken that dear name to some lit-
tle boy who had been for weeks away from his
precious mother, his eyes could not have flashed
more brightly or his face glowed more quickly
than did the eyes and face of that venerable
old man, when I pronounced the name of his
mother. He stood up in his peculiar manner
and said, 'yes Mr. Briggs, all that is good in
me, I owe to my mother!'
	O! what a testimony was that from this ven-
erable man to his mother, who had in his re-
membrance all the stages of his manhood!
Mothers, think of this when your bright eyed
little boys are about you."
	Thus mothers admonish their sons; and are
besought so to do, the world over. While ex-
ample is generally thought sufficient for the
daughter. Perhaps this is because the latter
betrays less natural tendency to go astray.
	But let the maidens foot once slip, and what
do we hear! 'She must have been naturally
wicked." or "she was evidently constitutionally
weak." These and similar and harder express-
ions are too frequently and too freely made use
of by people in general; and alas! by inexperi-
enced women in particular, when it is known
that one of their number, one like themselves
has fallen from the pleasant way, the peaceful
path of virtue!
	Even sisters guileless and innocent them-
selves, but also thoughtless. realizing nothing
of the tempter's power, have been known to
treat the fallen one with cornful reproach in-
stead of comforting pity. And mothers, often
themselves equally at fault with the dishonored
child, have given cruel taunts where only the
tenderest sympathies should have been awak-
ened.
	It is not our object to plead excuse for wrong
doing in any form. But a little solid reflection
upon these things, when the ignorance of most
girls and the rashness of some men are duly
considered, will bring the reasoning mind to
wonder more that so many are saved than at
the terrible truth that some are lost.
	Mother, tell your daughter ere it be too late,
how carefully she should conduct herself under
all circumsances where men and love-making
are concerned. Tell her, for she may not be
aware of this important fact, that kissing and
hand-pressing are entirely out of place be-
tween unmarried ladies and gentlemen, except
in cases of actual and honest marriage engage-
ment. For although these things may seem
trifling and unimportant in themselves, they
are often precursors of terrible tempations.
	And that all attempts at such familiarities
from a man having no honorable right, should
be resented by her in an unmistakable manner.
Teach her to be he self most circumspect and
to demand and comm nd uch respect from oth-
ers, that she will truly be in little danger of be-
ing contaminated under any circumstances
whatever.
	You do not know to-day, most faithful moth
er, what trials and temptations may beset your
daughter to-morrow, or in years to come. You
cannot be always beside her, to draw her to
yourself when dangers threaten, but you can
warn her while you have her yet with you.
Think of the experience you have yourself pass-
ed through, and what you have known and
heard of many others, and warn her. Remem-
ber that temptation alone is the test of virtue,
and that she who has not been tempted, though

[Column 3]
she may be pure as an angel of light, has not
been proven virtuous. But there is great wis-
dom in shunning temptation; how is your
daughter to shun it while she knows not of its
existence?
	Warn her concerning the temptations and
how to avoid them; at the same time you will
be teaching her the priceless value of her purity
and how to preserve it.


SOCIETY AND ITS TENDENCY.
	The prevailing elements of society tend more
or less to influence those who mingle in it even
though they may wish to avoid things which
are repulsive and distasteful to them, yet un-
consciously they will receive impressions and
partake in some degree of that which exists in
their midst. Nature has some things in com-
mon that will impreceptibly in associating as-
similate themselves to each other even though
against the will.
	Consequently it is easy to preceive, that the
purer feelings existing among the leaders of
society and persons holding important posi-
tions of honor and trust, the more truly eleva-
ting in all its bearings will be the tone of the
age.
	It is of the greatest importance to the young
especially that such should be the case, for
they are more susceptible of impressions and
influences, and it is hard for them to compre-
hend that where intelligence and polish exist
and have been cultivated to the highest degree
that there is not a corresponding inward
beauty harmonizing with the outward refine-
ment, that it is only illusive, a mask to cover a
hideous carcass.
	If the atmosphere of society be kept clear of
impurities and develop healthy and invigora-
ting energies of body and mind, then those who
bask in its light will receive strength of char-
acter and purpose as well as polish of manners
and refinement of taste. But while the pre-
vailing customs of late hours and dissipation,
as well as extremes of every name and nature
exist, one must be continually on their guard,
watching as well as praying if they would pre-
serve purity of heart, of body, of soul and of
purpose, while constantly exposed to tempta-
tions of every name and nature.
	"As custom arbitrates whose shifting away
	Our life and manners must alike obey."


HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE CHOIR and young people of the Four-
teenth Ward under the direction of Mr. A. C.
Smith gave a concert for a benevolent purpose
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Monday evening Jan. 17th, which reflected
great credit upon their musical talent and elo-
cutionary powers. The selection of songs was
in good taste and the execution fine and artis-
tic. The songs of the young ladies particularly
were full of exquisite pathos and melody.
	A VERY interesting entertainment was given
by the ladies of the Relief and Retrenchment
Societies of the Twelfth Ward at their ward
school-house on Friday afternoon Jan. 1[-]. The
tables spread for the occasion were literally
loaded with good things, and arranged in an
inviting manner. Bishop Hunter and several
of the Twelve were pre ent, and many other
invited guests beside the members of the ward.
After dinner Bishop L. W. Hardy opened the
entertainment by addressing them upon the
object of these gatherings and spoke most en-
couragingly to all those who take part in these
Societies. There were anthems by the ward
choir, and songs and reci[-]ations all performed


excellently well, especially the rendering of the
recitations by J. C. Graham, and J. Midgeley.
Some of the songs were very finely executed.
In the evening the young people enjoyed them
selves in dancing. Such Reunious' are bene-
ficial to the people young and old, bringing
those together who are full of the spirit of the
work of the Latter Days, and assimilating the
spirit of benevolence with that of sociability
and enjoyment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	133


AN ESSAY.
	READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE THIR-
TEENTH WARD.
	I think we all realize that God in placing us
upon this earth had an object in view, a work
for us to accomplish, that was planned and
commenced in the ages that have passed, to be
finished in the coming future. It was but a
short time since, that we were in His presence,
wrapped in the holy light of His look, with joy
and gladness worshipping our Creator; and to
earn a right to the place which we held and
show our obedience to His will, we are request-
ed to go and do His work.
	Our eyes are opened; we see the paths that
we must walk, the burdens that must be car-
ried, the struggles and temptations to be resist-
ed before the end is reached; the briars and
thorns by the wayside, that when His light is
withdrawn, we in our blindness shall grasp un-
knowingly until made aware of our mistake by
the sharp sting of regret which will follow.
Still His work lies there and we full of hope
and faith are eager to begin, that we may the
sooner enjoy the rest.
	Our knowledge is taken from us, we step
forth into this life, and the one which we
have left becomes a blank; God's light is with-
drawn except one small ray faith. which He
in His mercy allowed to remain; and if we live
as we should that ray will become a stream of
light to guide us back to our Eternal Home.
	Are we living to receive this light? living to
earn the positions we have left? or surrounded
as we are by the temptations of this world, its
joys and pleasures, have we forgotten the ob-
ject which brought us here?
	Let us keep in mind the glorious rest which
is awaiting us, after the toil and labor is over.
And as each day passes, drawing us nearer our
home, make it our aim to live the next day
more faithful and true to the principles that
will lead us to Life Eternal.
		L.
	S. L. City.


RETRENCHMENT.
	There are many subjects that all can improve
upon and likewise many things; it is not
dress alone but we can retrench in speaking
evil and in others things that are as necessary
as those of which I have spoken; we need to
retrench in backbiting above all other things.
There are also many words we use when talk-
ing that are not very becoming; many of us
think it makes us look smart, but it does not I
assure you. I am not as perfect as I should
be, but I can improve with the rest of you; let
us retrench in wasting our time; many times
we say that we have not time to do thus and
so; but we must try to use our time to better
advantage than we do; I do not mean to say
that we are all like this, but if we have a piece
of work to do, that we could do in one hour, and
should take two, that is what we should re-
trench in, and it will teach us to keep our minds


on what we are doing, and how to save time
and never leave for to-morrow what should be
done to-day.
	Let us improve our time in learning to make
our clothing, that our apparel may be the work
of our own hands; and by so doing we shall find
our time well improved indeed.
		ELIZA VILATE ASHWORTH.
	First Ward.


MATTIE GOLDFISH'S HISTORY, OBITU-
ARY, FUNERAL SERMON AND BENEDIC-
TION.
		HISTORY.
	George and Mattie Reed occupied a warm
place in the friendly corner of my heart;
so when they brought me a globe contain-
ing two pretty gold fish I at once christened
them George and Mattie.
	OBITUARY.
	One morning as the accustomed meal was
being scattered Mattie swam unsteadily, and
I saw the shadow of approaching death.
The globe was more frequently filled and
the cracker more finely pulverized, but all
availed nothing.
	After three days sickness Mattie folded
her gills closely and sank to the bottom of
her crystal world; while George circled
above apparently unconscious that anything
sad had occurred.
	FUNERAL SERMON.
	My text, or leading thought, may be
found in a choir p[-]em recently published in
the "Morning Herald:"
	"I breathed naught but love on my flowers."
		H. T. K.
	I have no congregation of our pet's peers,
(shoals of fish) to address, if I had they
would not understand my language.
	But to boys and girls, large and small, I
say, tenderly regard all life even that of
birds, and fish and flowers, for they will all
live again, and in the again they will un-
derstand our language, and we will under-
stand theirs. Let them have no cause to
accuse us then of thoughtless disregard.
	A goldfish's spirit is as undying asthat of
Earth which furnishes us an abiding place,
and yields us sustenance, as is Mrs. King's
cherished flowers, or as is the immortal
spirit of man.
	This being true, we infer that when we
come in possession of our portion of resur-
rected or renewed earth, "wherein dwelleth
righteousness," and receive the keys of our
Eternal Mansion, we may confidently look
amid our surroundings to find all specimens
of life that we have encircled within the
radius of our love.
		BENEDICTION.
	Our Father and Mother in Heaven we
pray thee to bless the little boys and girls
to whom we consign Mattie Goldfish's body
for further funeral honors and for burial.
Wilt Thou bless our audience (EXPONENT
READERS.) And may the departed spirit float
pleasantly to that other shore and be safely
guided into some stream or lake that adorns
the plantation being prepared for,
	RHEUMA.


Correspondents writing over assumed sig-
natures must make known their names to
the Editor, or no attention will be given to
their communications.


LIBERTY.
	Liberty is a principle which all love to en-
joy, and a privilege which all ought to pos-
sess, and none should hinder. The Lord
has placed us upon this habitable globe that
we might act upon our own agency and free-
will in keeping His commandments. If we
consider the birds of the air, their freedom,
is one of the leading principles of their
actions, they love to fly around rather than
to be caged in houses for the mere pleasure
of the occupants. It is similar with us.
I ask how far it is extended among the
world of mankind in general? How many
there are that bind heavy burdens upon the
shoulders of their fellow creatures. Yet it
is a principle that is much boasted of in this
so called enlightened age. There are sys-
tems of religion that exist to-day, and are
popular, which in their very infancy en-
forced such restrictions upon their votaries,
and have gone to such an extent, that if not
complied with, they have suffered the pain
of banishment and even death. Such a
state of things exists more or less at
the present time among those who wear
the garb of religion and style themselves
Christians. But we as Saints of God ought
to be thankful that we live in a land where
under the laws of the present constitution,
we can enjoy the dictates of our own con-
science. But yet there are many who would
like to deprive us of these rights, and work
very hard to do so and strip us of what
we possess. This is so-called liberty! But
if we serve the Lord and centre our minds
and objects for building up His king-
dom, He will control all things for our good.
	May we be faithful and prayerful in dili-
gently performing our present duties, and
assist one another in the Most Holy Faith,
is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus.
	MISS JANE FREWIN.
S. L. City.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE Princess Louise is a most accom-
plished needle-woman, and is expert in de-
signing as well as imitating. She occupies
her time during the day in art studies, and
seems wholly absorbed in them.
	QUEEN Victoria of Great Britian, person-
ally conducts a Sunday School for the child-
ren connected with Windsor Castle. She is
certainly an estimable lady individually,
and does not depend upon her position as
Queen, for dignity or nobility. Young la-
dies of fashion would do well to imitate her
private life, and would be less afflicted with
"ennuie."
	THE Hon. Mrs. Norton, whose approach-
ing marriage to Sir W. Stirling Maxwell is
announced in London, is rather advaneed
in years for a bride, being now sixty-seven
years old. Her grandfather was the cele-
brated dramatist, orator and statesman,
Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Her first mar-
riage to Hon. George Chapple Norton, took
place nearly half a century ago, in 1837.
She was a precious rhymester, and a volume
of her juvenile poems was published in 1820,
when George IV had just begun to reign,
and James Monroe was President of the
United States. Her most widely known
poem, "Bingen on the Rhine," was the
schoolboy declamation of men now past mid-
dle age. Miss Sedgwick, in her "Letters
from Abroad" (published in 1841), describ-
ed Mrs. Norton as "the perfection of intel-
lectual and physical beauty, uniting mascu-
line force with feminine delicacy."


134 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTERS.

[Column 1]
	BOSQUE Co. TEXAS, Dec. 14, 1875.
DEAR SISTER HORNE:
	And sisters of the Retrenchment Asso-
ciation and Relief Society, I feel there is
an apology due you my dear sisters for my
long silence; but I have been so busy visit-
ing my numerous relatives and friends,
who received me with open arms and wel-
come greetings that I could not get time to
write such a letter as I wished; giving you
a short history of my travels and the wel-
come reception I have met with among my
kindred. Can you imagine six grown broth-
ers who had not seen a sister for twenty
years gathering around me as though they
could take me by pieces from my aged
mother who had the best right, and claimed
that her house was to be my home, and I
must be the visitor of those dear brothers
who felt so blest and honored to have a
sister visit them. I have rejoiced exceed-
ingly to find that my mother and brothers
have defended the principles of the Gospel
although they have been absent from the
church for twenty years, and had no mis-
sionaries among them; yet they have not
denied the faith.
	Mother says tell the President that she
hopes he will not forsake her if she has him.
Mr. East and Greer preached last Sunday
to a very attentive congregation. After-
wards a gentleman arose and called for more
evidence that Joseph Smith was a Prophet;
so I was the fourth witness, as my brother
Thomas also testified to what Elders East
and Greer had said. I will relate a few
words of testimony which I gave them. I
said the Gospel of the Son of God is not a
fable, neither is life a romance, therefore it
is of the greatest importance that we seek
"to know of the doctrine whether it be of
God or man;" this is our privilege, I know
for myself that God has revealed Himself
from the heavens in this dispensation; the
testimony I have received, God gave me in
answer to prayer. The HOLY GHOST was
promised to the believers anciently, and it
is promised to them now if they believe
and are baptized; and I am a witness that
the signs follow the people called Latter-
Day Saints. God has made me a witness by
giving me the gift of the HOLY GHOST.
This is how I know that Joseph Smith is a
Prophet of God, and that those men who
have addressed you are sent of God com-
missioned with authority to baptize you, and
lay hands upon you, that you may receive
the HOLY GHOST; if you honestly desire to
know the truth this is your privilege. The
gentleman that called for more evidence,
said my testimony struck him, he placed
his hand on his heart and said it was pene-
trated.
	The ladies gathered around after meet-
ing to know concerning polygamy, but God
was with me, and His spirit gave me ans-
wers. I told them they need not be troubled
for if they did not repent they would not
have a husband at all; if they should die to-
morrow, that was the end of their covenant;
they would not be worthy of the marriage
relation after death should part them. If
their husbands did not embrace the gospel,
they would not be worthy of one wife in the
future state.
	The marrying for eternity seemed to re-
move the big pill that was choking them,
and they were anxious to hear more con-
cerning that eternal union of the sexes.
	God bless you my dear sisters, and God
bless His servants that build up His king-
dom is my prayer.
	W. EAST.
[Column 2]
	PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., Jan. 9th, '76.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I don't know as I scarcely dare enter my-
self on your list of correspondents. Yet
when I read the EXPONENT and the many
interesting and instructive pieces written
by the sisters, I think sometimes, why can-
not I write something that would perhaps
be the means of improving my own mind,
if not of much interest to any one else? I
firmly believe the more persons exercise
the capacities of their minds the more fruit-
ful they will become. Every faculty of
one's nature has to be brought into con-
stant exercise, if they wish to improve the
talents which the Lord has given them.
Some have a better talent for writing and
exercising their ideas properly, than others;
but the person with the one talent is just as
much in duty bound to improve it, as the
one with ten talents, otherwise the one tal-
ent will be taken away and given to the one
that already hath ten, and improved them.
I know that the sisters in this church have
a mission to fulfill, and, although it is a
very limited sphere of usefulness some have
to work in; still if they are faithful in their
calling their influence will be felt, and their
opportunities for doing good will corres-
pondingly increase.
	There is one subject which has been treat-
ed upon in your valuable paper which has
greatly interested me, a subject which
should interest every mother in Israel,
namely that of bringing up children aright.
The responsibility is great upon mothers to
instruct and bring up their children prop-
erly, for "As the twig is bent the tree is
inclined." Mothers should set an example
before their children worthy of imitation;
for upon them in a great measure depends
the future prosperity and advancement of
the church and kingdom of God. What a
great mission for women to perform. How
few realize their duties as they should, to
thoroughly train the faculties and disposi-
tions of children, to teach them to control
their passions, and cultivate and encourage
every good and noble faculty of their na-
ture, and at the same time striving to
eradicate and root out everything that has
an evil tendency, that they may grow up
useful members of society.
	The daughters of Zion should grow up
with a proper understanding of the various
duties required of them in the different pos-
itions of life in which they may be placed,
whether as daughters, wives or mothers;
filling every sphere in a manner which shall
redound with honor to themselves and shed
a bright lustre upon the heads of their par-
ents. Sons have still more important pla-
ces to fill in the kingdom of God. To be
taught to fulfill all the duties required of
them, requires the exercise of great wisdom
and care on the part of the parents. Thrown
as it were from the immediate control of
parents, more than daughters, they are
more liable to learn bad habits, and coarse
wicked language and be led into improprie-
ties of almost every kind. Great caution
and wisdom should be used to guard them
against evil influences, to teach them to love
that which is good, and to avoid every-
thing which has an evil tendency, that when
their fathers are called away from this mor-
tal sphere, they may step forward into their
footsteps, and bear off the kingdom and as-
sist in finishing the work which their fath-
ers commenced.
	What a great and noble work is before us;
there is not a moment to lose. Every mo-
ment should be improved in learning some-
thing that is useful. In improving our
minds by reading useful books, or convers-

[Column 3]
ing with those whose knowledge is greater
than ours; picking up the little gems of
thought which are scattered about in such
rich profusion. If we really wish to be-
come useful and intelligent members of the
church and kingdom of God, seeking to
bring our minds and wills in subjection to
Him, Who rules on high; then we will be
the better prepared to extend our spheres
of usefulness.
	I fear I have already extended this commu-
nication beyond the limits of your patience,
but really the subject is so interesting, and
of so much importance to our well being,
that I scarcely know where to break off.
	Praying that your interesting paper will
continue to grow and increase in circulation
and influence until it shall become an actual
necessity in every household in Utah:
	I am as ever your sister in the Gospel,
		SARAH.


DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would like to write a few of 
my thoughts for my young sisters of Utah.
We are now living in a day and dispensa-
tion when we can find plenty to occupy us.
I think we ought to store our minds with 
something that is good and useful. There
is a great work for us to do before the com-
ing of Christ; and we are the chosen ones
to do this work. Therefore it behoves us
as daughters of Zion to pray to our Father
in Heaven to guide our steps aright, that 
we may be worthy to set an example for
the world, and show them that we are not
what they represent us to be. We should
resist evil temptations, and live so as to
help those who are surrounded with evil
influences.  We should not scorn those who
are beneath us in station, for we are all God's
children.  He loves those who love Him and
keep His commandments whether they be
rich or poor. We should attend our meet-
ings regularly and learn all we can, for we
will need all the knowledge that we can ob-
tain. Let us show to the world that we can
excel them in all good works, and in every
respect and under all circumstances, be
truly ladies although we are Mormons and 
the world despise us. Let us pray to God
to help us, and may He bless us all is, the
[---]est prayer at all times of a young sister.
	Yours with love,
		MISS R. J. MATTHEWS.
	Santaquin, Jan. 10th, 1876.


THE term "grass widow" is said to be a
corruption of the term "Grace widow," the
former expression being merely a barbar-
ism. "Grace widow" is the term applied
to one who becomes a widow by grace of
favor, not of necessity, as by death, origi-
nated in the early ages of European civili-
zation, when divorces were granted but
seldom, and wholly by the Catholic Church.
When such a decree was granted to a wo-
man, the Papal rescript stated, "Viduea de
gratia," which interpreted is "widow of
grace." In the law of the French it would
read, "Veuve de grace," or "grace widow,"
"veuve" being translated as "widow." — Ex.


AFTER our subtlest analysis of the men-
tal process, we must still say our highest
thoughts and our best deeds are given to us.
And do we not through this acknowledge
rapid thought and noble impulses to be in-
spiration?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	135


AN EDITOR'S WIFE.

[Column 1]
	Yes, I'm Mrs. Peter Snow, an editor's
wife. I well remember the day when Mr.
Snow asked me to become his wife. I con-
fess I liked Mr. Snow, and thinking it
would be a very fine thing to be the wife
of an editor, I said yes as pretty as I knew
how, and I became Mrs. Snow. I have seen
ten years of married life, and find my hus-
band to be an amiable, good-natured man.
He always spends his evenings at home,
and is in that respect a model man; but he
always brings a pile of exchanges, which is
only limited by the length of his arms, and
reads, while I patch the knees and elbows
of our boy's pantaloons and coat. After we
have had a Quaker meeting for an hour's
length, I break the silence by asking:
	"Mr. Snow, did you order that coal I
spoke to you about?"
	"What did you say, my dear?" he asks,
after a few moments' silence.
	"Did you order that coal I spoke to you
about?"
	"Indeed, my dear, I am sorry, but I for-
got all about it."
	Another hour's silence, which is relieved
by the baby's crying, and, rather liking to
hear a noise of some sort, I make no effort
to quiet him.
	"My," says Mr. Snow, after he has cried a
minute or so, "you had better give the ba-
by some catnip tea to quiet him; he troub-
les me."
	The baby is still; another hour passes
without a breath of noise. Becoming tired
of silence, I take a lamp and retire for the
night, leaving Mr. Snow so engaged with
his paper that he does not see me leave the
room. Towards midnight he comes to bed,
and just as he has fallen asleep, the baby
takes a notion to cry again. I rise as quietly
as possible, and try to still him. While I
am walking the room with a young Snow
in my arms, our next—a boy of three years
—begins to scream at the top of his lungs.
There is no other course but to call Mr.
Snow, so I call out:
	"Mr. Snow! Mr. Snow!"
	The third time he starts up and replies:
	"What! Tim; more copy?"
	As though I was Tim, that little imp run-
ning about the office. I reply rather tartly:
	"No, I don't want any more copy—I have
had enough of that to last me a lifetime—
I want you to see what Tommy is crying
about."
	Mr. Snow makes a desperate effort to
rouse himself; as Tommy stops to take a
breath, he falls asleep again, leaving me to
pace the room in as much vexation as I
can comfortably contain. The next morn-
ing, at breakfast, when I gave Mr. Snow an
account of last night's adventures, he re-
plies:
	"Indeed, my dear, I am sorry the child-
ren troubled you."
	This is always the way. If I even com-
plain, it is: "Indeed my dear, I am very
sorry."
	But should the very same thing occur the
subsequent night, directly before his eyes,
very likely he would not see or know any-
thing about it, unless it happened to inter-
rupt his train of ideas. Then he would pro-
pose catnip tea; but before I can get it into
the infant's stomach, he will be far away into
the realms of thought, leaving me not a
little vexed at his stupidity.
	Mr. Snow knows the nature of every pa-
per published in England and the United
States, but he cannot for the life of him tell
the names of his children. He knows pre-
cisely the years of every American Journal,
but he does not know the age of his own

[Column 2]
baby. He knows how every contributer
looks, but I do not believe he can tell wheth-
er my eyes are black or blue.
	They say Mr. Snow is getting rich. All
I know is, he gives me money to clothe our
boys, and that, too, without a complaint of
poverty. I hope the world is right in its
opinion, and when I am satisfied it is, I
shall advise him to resign his editorial hon-
ors and spend a few months in becoming
acquainted with his wife and children. The
little ones will feel much flattered in mak-
ing the acquaintance of so literary a man.


For the EXPONENT.
REFLECTIONS OF A YOUNG MOTHER.
	Morn amid the mountains,
	Lovely solitude;
	Gushing streams and fountains
	Murmurs God is good.
	I often feel like chanting these beautiful
lines in the morning when I arise from my
bed of peaceful slumbers to take up once
more the daily duties of housewifery;
they seem to be so in harmony with our sur-
roundings amid the mountains, where we
are enjoying a goodly portion of God's
choicest blessings, health and quietude.
	I feel like breathing forth a prayer of
gratitude to my Heavenly Father for His
protecting care, the society of a husband
who is constant and true, healthy and intel-
ligent children and the privilege of living
in this last great dispensation. We are
surrounded with all the advantages we
need wish for and if we only make the
best of them, we have all the necessary
comforts of life, which if we cannot pro-
duce we can purchase from abroad. I do
think if we would try and appreciate these
blessings and then contemplate our situation
were we deprived of them, we would not
be so easily led away with the foolish fash-
ions of the world.  We all know that times
will not always be as they are now, that
great changes must come, that some time in
the near future we will have to depend up-
on our own resources; when we understand
these things it is apparent to all women as
well as men, that it will be to our advan-
tage to lend a helping hand towards becom-
ing a self-sustaining people.
	If the extra means and time which are
spent for things we do not need, only to
keep ourselves fashionable, were spent in
the educating of our children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, they would have more
confidence in and more love for us, and as
they grew up to manhood and womanhood
their minds would not be so easily led as-
tray; for children naturally follow the ex-
ample of their parents. Oh, would it not
be a great satisfaction to see them all liv-
ing the lives of Saints.
	I am but a young mother and have had
but little experience, but in my hours of
gratitude and contemplation this subject
presents itself to me forcibly. In this light
your excellent little paper has found its way
into a number of families in this place. I
can say for myself it is read with great ben-
efit. My desire is that I may make good
use of the instructions which are held forth
to one and all.
		D.[--]F.[-]D.
	Oxford, Oneida Co. Jan 14th, 1876.


THE ORIGIN OF NEWSPAPERS.
	Who thought of the newspaper first? It
seems to have had birth in that land of viv-
id gesture and grave gossip—Italy—and the
first paper of which we have any record was


a monthly, published in Venice, by order of
the Government, in manuscript, as printing
had not then been invented. It was called
Gazetta, which word was a derivative of Ga-
zera, the name of a magpie or chatterer.
In the Maghabecula Library, at Florence,
are now to be seen thirty volumes of Ve-
netian gazettes in manuscript, the last of
which is dated in the sixteenth century.
The Venetian conservatives clung to their
script after printing was an accomplished
fact.
	The epoch of the Spanish armada, in Eng-
land, was the epoch of the first English
newspaper. In the British Museum are
preserved several newspapers which were
printed in 1588, while the Spanish fleet lay
in the British Channel. The earliest of
these is entitled the "English Mercurie,"
which, by authority, "was imprinted at Lon-
don by Her Highness' printer, 1588." In
this early journal are the news of the day,
and a well-written article, designed to
arouse and stiffen timid loyalty tells of
the discovery of a Spanish plot to murder
the queen. There is a heroic poem, to
"Elizabethe Triumphanstel," by one James
Asker; a critical article of an unfortunate
author, entitled "Father Parsons' Coat Well
Dusted," and various witty sayings all
printed in Roman letter.
	To a physician of Paris, Renandot, be-
longs the credit of having first collected in
fugitive sheets, the news of various coun-
tries. The first venture was a weekly, is-
sued in healthy seasons, when patients were
few and the Doctor at leisure. he obtained
a license to do this in 1682.—Ex.


THE SEX IN PERSIA.
	There are women in Persia—real ladies—
who are as fair and beautiful as ever was
Lalla Rookh, whom the Cape-Cod girls call
for in Boston bookstores under the title of
"Laura Hooker." This mention is neces-
sary because the Shah in his European tour
sought the society of the Schneiders and
her sort. Very many of the Persian wo-
men of the higher classes have the fair com-
plexion and regular features of the Circas-
sian and Georgian races, with which the
native blood has been so beneficially and
freely mixed. They are clever, lively, and
frequently wear in the highest household
the metaphorical br——, as well as their
own elaborately embroidered trowsers; in
other words they reign supreme. But too
many of them lead a lazy, luxurious, and
terribly monotonous life. Most of them
learn to read and write, and they devote
hours to the perusal of the Persian poets.
Contrary to the opinion which has gener-
ally prevailed in Christendom the Persian
men are not commonly jealous, and their
men and women and daughters enjoy much
liberty, going unattended to the public
baths and bazaars and visiting their friends.
There are two kinds of marriage in Persia,
one permanent, which restricts the poor
husband to four wives only, and the other
when the contract is made for a stated per-
iod, permitting an unlimited number of
wives, who are generally women of an in-
ferior class, and who act as servants for the
permanent wives. But the children of
both classes are equal in rights and status,
and are ranked as legitimate. The great
mass of men in Persia marry but one wife
—silks and jewels are as expensive there as
elsewhere—and such wives generally lead a
contented and happy life.


136 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.
	HE that preaches gratitude, pleads the
cause both of God and men; for without it
we can neither be sociable nor religious.
	NO story is the same to us after a lapse of
time; or, rather we who read it are no long-
er the same interpreter.
	LOVE is the fruit of the soul, that when
friends drop away (as leaves thinning) is
more perfectly ripened by the sun that
reaches it from on high.
	THERE is a sort of fascination in all sin-
cere unpremeditated eloquence, which
opens to one the inward drama of the
speaker's emotions.
	THERE is no greater thing than for two
human souls to feel that they are joined for
life—to strengthen each other in all labor,
to rest on each other in all sorrow, to minis-
ter to each other in all pain, to be one with 
each other in unspeakable memories at the
moment of parting in this life, and to feel
a firm and full conviction and assurance
that they shall meet again to spend an eter-
nity in each other's society, where pain and
sorrow and death are no more.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A teaspoonful of powdered borax, dissolved in
a quart of tepid water, is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere or alpaca.
	A Nice Cream Pie.—One cup white sugar, two
thirds of a cup of cream, two eggs; two cups flour
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful
soda. This will make seven thin cakes, between
which spread the cream.
	Apple Fritters.—Make a batter, not very stiff,
with one quart of milk, three eggs and flour to
bring in the right consistency. Pare and core a
dozen apples, and chop them to about the size of
small peas, and mix them well in the batter. Fry
them in lard as you would doughnuts. For trim-
mings use powdered white sugar.
	To Iron Velvet Ribbon.—Dampen the under
side slightly and draw it back and forth over a ho
stovepipe until the velvet is quite dry. A still
better plan—though in winter not always conveni-
ent—is to lay a wet piece of cotton cloth on a hot
flat-iron placed upside down, and while the steam
is rising from it draw the underside of the velvet
lightly backward and forward over the wet cloth.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Breathing.—The "Science of Health" impress-
es upon its readers the pernicious effects of the
habit of breathing through the mouth, sleeping or
waking. The nostrils are the proper breathing ap-
paratus, not the mouth, a person may inhale pois-
onous gases through the mouth, but not the nose
without being aware of it. Drawing in and emit-
ting the breath through the mouth is also destruct-
ive to the teeth.
	The Liver.—In treating of this organ the Her-
ald of Health says that to cure derangements "a
great deal more can be done by a careful regula-
tion of the habits than by anything else, and the
first thing to be attended to is the food. It will
accomplish more than all the drugs in the world.
The things to be avoided are, very highly seasoned
dishes, hot and doughy bread and hot biscuits, such
vegetables as are not easily digested-potatoes,
cabbage and the like, alcoholic beverages, and the
use of tea and coffee to any but a very moderate
extent, excessive use of sugar and oily foods."
Good stale bread should be eaten; a little fresh lean
meat is advisable; eggs occasionally, cooked for


fifteen minutes in water at a temperature of 170°,
or put into boiling water, covered and placed away
from the fire, that the y[-]lk may be cooked and the
white left tender and flocculent; fruit used properly
is an almost certain panacea for diseases of the liv-
er.


WITH God as our God we are safe and hap-
py everywhere. A gentleman crossing a
dreary moor came upon a cottage, and enter-
ed into conversation with its inmate who
was standing by his garden gate. When
about  to leave he said:—“Are you not afraid
to live in this lonely place?" "Oh, no!" said
he, for Faith closes the door every night,
and Mercy opens it in the morning."


SIR Isaac Newton, a very wise and godly
man, was once examining a new and very
fine globe, when a gentleman came into his
study who did not believe in a God, but de-
clared the world we live in came by chance.
He was much pleased with the handsome
globe, and asked,
	"Who made it?"
	"Nobody," answered Sir Isaac; it happen-
ed here."
	The gentleman looked up in amazement
at the answer, but he soon understood what 
it meant.


THE fatigue of the limbs incident to rail-
way travel, is occasioned mainly by the
trembling motion of the floor under the
feet. Invalids will find great relief by the
use of an air cushion for a footstool.


<oivk ilbta="" call;="" priceslofeuit="" the="" tlmee.="" (<="" :="" 5="" ,.="" i9jc.........="" uj="" i;a‘jf="" ei="" ti="" wholesale.and="" retail,djaljngv="" bll="" ,="">					AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and 
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas.  A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New [-]ear in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACK & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
				           DRY GOODS,
            Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
             Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps. Boots
               and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                                   Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
        Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
         ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
         the Old Fashioned House. 

					HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
        Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
                  Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
                   doors below Walker House, and examine our
                       goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
                          take pleasure in making to order, such
                              brushes as we have not on hand.
                                                                    Wm. H. MILES, Supt. 

					    LITTLE & ROUNDY,
				Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
			         Crockery, China and Glassware,
                             	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
                                            23, MAIN STREET.

					MITCHELL & JAMES,
			Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
					      AGENTS FOR
               RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
                           Pumps Repaired on short notice.
               Orders from the country promptly responded to.
              Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

						MILLINERY
						     - :0: -
			        	     Mrs. C. E. DYE,
                  Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

						Z. C. M. I. 
                               Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                                            in all kinds of
                     DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
                         HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
                            GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                               STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
                    AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

					O. L. ELIASON,
					   DEALER IN
		         Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
                   Second South Street, Opposite Walker
                                       Brothers' Bank.
            Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
                                          ONE YEAR. 


					IF YOU WANT CHEAP
			    COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
                                    TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
                                                   GO TO
                                            W. HARRISON'S,
                       One door South of Constitution Buildings,
                                                Main Street.  

					THE KIND OF 
				   BOOTS AND SHOES
                            EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
    Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
                               priced articles made by the
            WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
         At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
         Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
                                S. P. CROMPTON, Supt. 

							LADIES
               If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
                           Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
                                                   them to the
                                    UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
                        They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
                                            BUTTER and EGGS,
                                                                   F. GOSS, Supt. 

					  EVERY DESCRIPTION
							OF
				    CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
							AND 
				         GENERAL DRY GOODS.

                       Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

                                    Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

                                                H. E. PHELPS,
			                                    29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

						H. DINWOODEY
				WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
						   FURNITURE!
                                 SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
                                            Feathers, Wall Paper
                                                          AND
                                              BABY CARRIAGES!
                            75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1876.	No. 18.


For the EXPONENT.
	RETROSPECTION.

The pale, dull sun of February
	Tinging with mellow light,
The landscape drear, and mountain tops,
	Grand in their sheen of white,
Lights up the day with glim ring ray,
	And fadeth into night.

The shadows lay along the wall,
	Gloomy and dark they seem,
And fitfully the sunset rays,
	Adown the casement stream,
And the tired mind to rest inclin'd.
	Would fain at twilight dream.

Call up some vision of the past
	Glowing with life and light,
Some rosy-hued and brilliant scene
	In dazzling sple[-]dor bright;
A pleasant phase, of other days,
	And friends now lost to sight.

Ah! pause—for from the years gone by
	A dear familiar face,
The twilight shrouds in shadow
	And seemingly we trace
The outlines clear of one most dear,
	Crowned with a mystic grace.

And thoughts rush back to the long ago,
	And we listen as of yore,
To catch the music of the hours,
	That will return no more;
And 'mid the flow'rs of childhood's bow'rs,
	Our hearts are gushing o'er.

We close the ideal vision,
	With memories so replete;
And fancy the night wind sighing
	A requiem low and sweet.
And as we part, the tear-drops start,
	The spell is so complete.

We'll meet the absent one again;
	O Faith, thy glorious ray,
Brighter than sunshine floods the soul
	And lights the darkest day
With beams divine, that constant shine,
	Athwart the roughest way.
		EMILE.
Feb. 13, 1876.
		E. B. WELLS.


THE TIME TO BE PLEASANT.
	"Mother's cross!" said Maggie, coming
out into the kitchen with a pout on her
lips. Her aunt was busy ironing, but she
looked up and answered Maggie.
	"Then it is the very time for you to be
pleasant and hopeful. Mother was awake
a great deal in the night with the poor ba-
by."
	Maggie made no reply, she put on her
bonnet and walked off into the garden.
But a new idea went with her. "The very
time to be pleasant and hopeful is when oth-
er people are cross. Sure enough thought
she," that would be a good time, when it
would do the most good. I remember when
I was sick last year, I was so nervous that
if any body spoke to me I could hardly help
being cross, and mother never got angry or
out of patience with me. I ought to pay her
back now and I will! And she sprang up
from the grass where she had thrown her-
self, and turned a face full of cheerful reso-
lution toward the room where her mother
sat tending a fretful teething baby. Mag-
gie brought out the pretty ivory balls and
began to tingle them for the little one. He
stopped fretting, and a smile dimpled the
corners of his lips.
	"Couldn't I take him out to ride in his


carriage, mother, it is such a nice morning?"
she asked.
	"I should be so glad if you would!" said
her mother.
	The little hat and sacque were brought,
and baby was soon ready for his ride.
	"I'll keep him as long as he is good," said
Maggie, "and you must lie on the sofa and
take a nap while I am gone, you are looking
dreadfully tired."
	The kind words and the kiss that accom-
panied them were almost too much for the
mother. The tears rose to her eyes, and
her voice trembled as she answered, "Thank
you, dearie, it will do me a world of good
if you can keep him out an hour, and the
air will do him good, too. My head aches
badly this morning."
	What a happy heart beat in Maggie's
bosom as she trundled the little carriage up
and down the walk; she had done real good.
She had given back a little of the care and
forbearance that had so often been bestowed
upon her. She had made her mother hap-
pier, and given her time to rest. She re-
solved always to remember and act upon her
aunt's good words. "The very time to be
helpful and pleasant is when everybody is
tired and cross.
		THE WELL-SPRING.


THE EMPIRE OF FASHION.
	"These remnants of fool and feather, that they got in
France, with all their honorable points of ignorance per-
taining thereto."—H. VIII.
	"I see that the fashion wears out more clothes than the
man."—Shakespeare.
	An article in Scribner for December says,
one of the facts brought prominently before
the world, during the past few years, is that
France is rich, and that she has surprised
the world, in the promptness with which
she has met, not only her own, but Prussia's
enormous expenses in the last war. In this
article the writer endeavors to prove her
monied prosperity, to be the result of her
industry and frugality: These habits are
certainly great aids in this direction; but I
think we shall find a more potent argument
than this, for the wealth of France. Her
monopoly of Fashion, to which she has laid
the whole world under tribute, is the con-
tinued source of her great monied prosper-
ity. Jean Baptiste Colbert, comptroller gen-
eral of Finances, in the reign of Louis XIV
truly said in his time, "the fashions of
France are worth more to her than were
the mines of Mexico and Peru to Spain."
And strange it is, that this caprice, so
blindly followed, comes through the Paris-
ian theaters. Managers spare nothing in
their costly outfits; such artists as Dore, Du-
rand, and Roux, do not hesitate to draw de-
signs for the theatres; and the wealthy mil-
iners and modistes finish the work free of
charge. It is expected, that the piece meet-
ing with success, the colors and costumes
will become fashionable and give the mod-
iste ample reward. French dress makers
never fail to attend a piece at the theatre as
soon as its success is established.
	Thus Paris, like the city described in
Revelation, has made all the nations of the
earth drunk with the wine of the cup of
her follies.	E. W. L.
—Woman's Journal.


FLOWERS.
	A GENEROUS mind when it does a favor,
will do it with a grace.
	IT has been truly and tenderly said "Even
that perfect petition, the Lord's prayer,
gains something from the fact that every
man who repeats it, remembers that he
learned it at his mother's knee."
	NOTICE everything that is done by oth-
ers to contribute to your benefit or happi-
ness. Nothing seems more ungracious than
the passing over without remark, and ap-
parently without thought, the thousand
and one little efforts and attentions which
are intended to sweeten domestic life.
	IF you aspire to the highest and best,
you may not be able to reach the summit,
but you will come much nearer to it than if,
in the first instance, clipping the wings of
what is really pure, noble, unselfish ambi-
tion, you determine to sacrifice and surren-
der all claim to the highest and the best,
and rest content with some commonplace
attainment.
	THERE have been heroes who never set a
squadron in the field, or bared their breast
to an enemies' steel. To defend the truth
when it is unpopular, to withstand the
sneer, the pity or the laugh which fre-
quently assails those who stand up for truth
and right, may demand an amount of calm
courage which is not needed amid garments
dyed in blood of the battle-field.
	THERE is no trouble congenial compan-
ionship cannot soften, no joy it cannot in-
crease. The poorest dwelling, the most
meagre fare, shared with people whose
thoughts are one's own, who catch one's
meaning at once, and enjoy the same things,
are better than all the luxuries the world can
give, shared by those who are delighted by
what bores us, and when we are delighted
they are unutterably bored.
	THE heart of man seeks for sympathy,
and each of us craves a recognition of his
talents and his labors; but this craving is in
danger of becoming morbid unless it be
constantly kept in check by calm reflection
on its vanity. or by dwelling upon the very
different and far l[---]her motives which
ought to actuate us. That man has fallen
into a pitiable state o[-] moral sickness in
whose eyes the good opinion of his fellow
men is a test of men [--]d their applause
the principal reward of exertion.—Helps.


MISS Mary Carpenter is doing a great
work in India. She anticipates establishing
institutions of learning and education for
females at Karachi and Hyderabad. This
winter she is making a tour of Southern
India first for the purpose of education, and
then through the Northern Provinces, and
return to Bombay sometime in March. This
lady is of that type of character which
seems never to falter or swerve in purpose
where good is to be accomplished, if energy
and determination will succeed.


"THE sacred heavens around him shine-"
wrote the poet. The compositor put it:
"The scared hyenas around him whine."


138		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

	R. S. REPORTS.

	GOSHEN, UTAH Co. Jan. 27th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the kind interest you take in
the young and rising generation, I submit
a few items to your notice and for publica-
tion should you see fit.  At the instigation
of the President of our Relief Society, Mrs.
Mary Johnson, we have started a Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association
in this place.  Our Bishop and his Counsel-
ors with a few other brethren met with
some of our sisters for the purpose of organ-
izing, and made some excellent remarks ap-
propriate to the occasion. We have held
our fifth Semi-Monthly meeting all of
which have been well attended, our young
girls having taken hold with a zest. We
also have a paper edited by Mrs. C. Higgin-
son, entitled "The Young Ladies' Gem" in
which are very creditable pieces composed
by our young people.  I am also glad to
state that we have a Young Men's meeting
in course of progress by which both young
and old hope to be benefitted. The follow-
ing are the names of those who were cho-
sen to act as officers of the young ladies' or-
ganization:
	President, Mrs. Hattie Higginson; Vice
President, Mrs. Mary Dodds; Counselors,
Mrs. C. Higginson, Mrs. Louisa Taylor, Mrs.
Mary Wilson, and Miss Nancy Thomas;
Treasurer, Miss Emma Stanfield; Superin-
tendent of Secretaries, Mrs. M. A. Till;
Presiding Secretary, Miss Florrila Cook;
Assistant Secy's., Misses', Rosella McKee,
Sarah Jane Thomas, Lizzie Jaird, Emma
Morgan, Lizzie Jenkins; Superintendent,
Mrs. Mary Johnson.
	Our resolutions are as follows:
	1st. Resolved, That each member take an
active part in said meetings such as in read-
ing, writing essays, or uniting in prayer for
the mutual instruction and benefit of the
whole.
	2nd. Resolved, That we set an example
worthy of imitation in dressing becomingly,
and not follow after the foolish fashions of
teh world, and to show by engaging only
in the best and most approved styles of
dancing, a wish to reform in everything as
soon as possible.
	3rd. Resolved, That we are expected to 
keep the "Word of Wisdom" in every
sense, and abstain from hot and strong
drinks and everything injurious to the sys-
tem.
	4th. Resolved, That we consider it our
duty as members, to attend Sabbath and
Fast Day Meetings, Sunday Schools and
other like assemblies for mutual improve-
ment.
	5th. Resolved, That we will be more re-
served in our actions and conversation
and not indulge in loud laughter or disor-
derly behavior in meeting or social gath-
erings, we also agree to keep good hours,
and cultivate the spirit of charity, and not
speak lightly of each other, or of sacred
things.
	6th. Resolved, That we maintain our
dignity as young ladies, thereby influencing
the young men to refrain from their loose
habits, and induce them to cultivate good
language, and manners that we may not
feel ashamed of their society.
	It was deemed wisdom that the senior
sisters hold positions in the Association for
a time to give the young girls a fair start,
and a chance to learn of those more expe-
rienced, but to let the meetings be wholly
the young girls.
	Ever desiring the prosperity of Zion, I
remain your sister in the bonds of love.
	MARY ANN TILL.

[COLUMN 2]

	CEDAR CITY, IRON CO. UTAH.
		Jan. 26, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A reorganization took place in our Re-
lief Society, June 3rd, 1875. Mrs. Sarah
Uric was chosen President, Mrs. Mary Ann
Lunt and Mrs. Sage Jones, Counselors; Miss
Sarah Jane Leigh, Treasurer; Mrs. Ellen
Lunt Secretary, and Miss Jane Parry Assist-
ant Secretary. The former officers having
resigned with the exception of the Secre-
tary.
	Our society is in a flourishing condition,
and we are trying to do all in our power
to aid in rolling on the great work of the
Latter-days.
	Bishop Henry Lunt, Elders C. J. Arthur,
Jens Neilson, and Francis Webster met with
the sisters of the Relief Society, Dec. 9th,
1875 to organize a Young Ladies, Retrench-
ment Association. After the Bishop had
spoken at some length on Retrenchment,
Home Manufacture, Word of Wisdom etc.
Miss Martha Henrietta Lunt was nomina-
ted and sustained as President,
	Miss Sarah Jane Leigh,
	"	Rachel Corry,
	"	Amy Webster,
	"	Cathrine Stewart,		Counselors.
	"	Mary Mackelprang,
	"	Mary Neilson,
	"	Rachel Corry, Treasurer,
	"	Nellie Duncan, Secretary,
	"	Emmeline Haight, Assistant Sec'y.
	Mrs. Sarah Chatterly, Superintendent,
	"	Mary Ann Parry and Mrs. Ann
Elizabeth Arthur, Assistants.
	The brethren made some very appropri-
ate remarks and it was a good time long to be re-
membered for good.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		ELLEN LUNT, Sec'y.

	HYRUM, CACHE Co., Jan. 31st, 1876
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of the Retrenchment
Association held their 4th anniversary at
10, a. m. Friday, Jan. 20th. On the stand
were Elders Hans E. Neilson, and John G.
Wilson, Counselors to Bishop Lilgenquest.
In the absence of sister Hansen our Presi-
dent (through sickness) Sister Christina Lil-
genquest President of the Relief Society
presided.
	We had an excellent time and much val-
uable instruction was given to the young
ladies.
	The name of our Association was chang-
ed to the Hyrum Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Society and the following of-
ficers were elected for the ensuing year:
Mrs. Caroline C. Hansen, President; Mrs.
Ann M. Hansen, Mrs. Mina Unsworth, Mrs.
Henrietta Lilg[-]nquest, Misses Cecilia D.
Wilson, Eliza Benson, Phinetta Williams,
Harriet Osborn, and Sarah Osborn Counsel-
ors; Mrs. Rebecca Allen Secretary, Miss
Cynthia E. Nelson Assistant Secretary Mrs.
Josephine Johnson Treasurer.
	At 2 p. m. a ball was held in the Public
hall under the sole management of the la-
dies and right well did they discharge their
duties, Mrs. Corbit showed such spirit and
activity as floor manager, that we are satis-
fied she will be called upon to discharge this
duty again. Refreshments were served at
5 o'clock, and at 10 p. m. the dance closed,
and a very pleasant and cheerful time end-
ed with the good feelings of all.
	There was no round dancing, in fact we
have abolished it altogether, and not only
ladies but the gentlemen have taken the
wise counsel of President Young and cheer-
fully close their parties at 10 o'clock. We
are pleased to say that we are endeavoring

[COLUMN 3]

to improve ourselves and trying to prepare
for those responsibilities that ere long must
rest upon the daughters of Zion. Let us
follow in that path which has been marked
out by the principles of the Gospel.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of the 
EXPONENT which should be read by every
woman in the church, and hoping you will
excuse this my first attempt, I remain your
Sister,
	REBECCA ALLEN Secretary.

	GUNNISON, Feb. 1st, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking about writing for
some time, but have neglected it, not being
accustomed to write for a paper. The 28th
of last June the sisters of this place had a
pleasant visit from Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
M. I. Horne, E. Howard, and E. S. Barney.
They organized a society called: The Young
Ladies's Retrenchment Association of Gun-
nison. We meet every two weeks; open
with prayer and singing, and have select
reading and essays; we try to improve in
every thing which is good and commenda-
ble.
	The officers were elected as follows:
	Mrs. Helena Madson, President,
	Nettie Sorenson,
	Trene Caldwell,
	Frederica Fellstead
	Jane Caldwell,			Counselors.
	Jane Gribble,
	Christina Christenson,
	Miss Sarah Capsson, Secretary,
	Miss Jane Caldwell, Assistant Secretary.

	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER Co. Jan 26th '76.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking of writing for some
time to let you know how we are getting
along with our Relief Society, but have
neglected it not being accustomed to write
for a paper. We were organized February
6th, 1871 with about forty members. Lydia
Blackburn was chosen as President, Sarah
Myres, Nancy Blackburn, as Counselors;
Mary Ann Stoddard Treasurer, and Rachel
Marshal Secretary. Since that time we have
bought a house which cost $190, where we
meet twice a month, we have donated to
the St. George Temple $93, and to the poor,
$77. We have a little left in the treasury,
and with the assistance of the Lord we still
feel to continue in good works. We have
no one in need at present, but we are all
poor (in our own estimation at least) and very
busy, but I think we all mean to do about
right.
	I believe the sisters are all right in the
principles of faith, and may the spirit of
the Lord still continue with us and all simi-
lar organizations in all our labors.
	MRS. RACHEL MARSHAL
		Secretary.


THE late Lord Brougham was addressing
a public meeting at Edinburgh, soon after
his resignation of the Chancellorship in
1833-34. "People of Edinburgh" cried the
orator, in concluding an impassioned vindi-
cation of his political career, "these hands
are clean." And suiting the action to the
word, he threw out his dexter and sinister
psalms for the public inspection. A tremendous
burst of applause was elicited from the
adroit peroration; but as the noise subsided,
the voice of a North British positivist on the
back benches was audible, saying, "ay
Harry, they're clean enough morally; but
phezically they'd be nane the waur for soap.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	139


SUBMISSION.
The sunshine lay along the sands
In lingering, level, shining bands,
Into an open cell it shone,
Where Monk Marcarius sat alone,
And started as a shadow fell
Across the glitter in his cell.
"Father," a burdened sinner said,
"How shall my peace with God be made.
How shall I live the life of Saints
For which my hungry spirit faints?"
"Fly from the sight of man my son,
"So be thy Christian race begun—
In solitude thy sins lament,
By night and day thy deeds repent.
Sin not in speech, thy tongue control,
So shalt thou save thy sinful soul."
That night Marcarius on his bed
Heard a sweet voice that softly said:
"Thou thinkest goodness dwells with thee,
Rise! go to yonder town and see!
Beside the shore two women dwell
Far above thee as heaven from hell."
At early dawn, with prayer and groan,
Marcarius left his cell alone,
And sought the city's busy roar,
The craftsman's street beside the shore,
Where Claudia and Indora sat
Braiding together on a mat.
With accents stern, the abbot said:
"What life, O women! have ye led
That any angel should come down
To give to you a saintly crown?"
With startled eyes, and lips apart,
And mingled words, as one in heart.
"We are our husband's wives and try
To live in love and unity,
No Saint, O father! can we be,
But two poor women as you see."
"Nay!" muttered he, "Some mightier grace,
Has sanctified your dwelling place.
What have ye offered to the Lord?
What duty done? what sin abhorred?
How, in the crowded wrangling street,
Made of your lives an odor sweet?"
"We have done nothing. Once we said
For God's sake we would be unwed,
And live as nuns in convent cell;
Our husbands did not think it well.
So then, we only made a vow
To live in christian peace as now,
Nor let a word of strife or wrong
Be heard again from either tongue.
The father bowed his head and sighed,
Obedient! silent! self-denied,
And women too? Ah Lord! I see
How far this life surpasseth me."
A wiser and a better man
His course from thence Marcarius ran.
O saint and abbot sleep in peace,
I pray not that thy tribe increase,
For if that angel come again
To cleanse a soul from sinful stain;
In what new land, beside what sea,
Could two such wondrous women be?
		SELECTED.


[Column 1]
		PIPSEY PAPERS.
	We often hear some one, who thinks he
knows all about it singing or speaking the
praises of Saturday night. They are men of
course and think themselves fully posted on
the subject. From their standpoint per-
haps they are. They come to their homes
full of life and vigor with their week's la-
bor finished and their minds at rest, sit
themselves down at the cheerful fire in the
clean pleasant sitting rooms or kitchens or
both as the case may be, draw up the spit-
toon or send a squirt over the spotless floor,
take a piece of paper and draw a few pic-
tures of the beauties and comforts of Satur-
day night. But my view is from another
standpoint, it is the woman's side of the
question. I said to Mollie what a fine thing
Saturday night is; "Yes, said she, why
don't you write about it? I will take care
of the baby to-morrow if you will sit down
and tell them about Saturday night." I will
try, but I shall fail to do justice to the sub-
ject.
	I have been busy all the week but I can-
not see that I have accomplished much but

[Column 2]
that which will have to be done next week
just the same. I have worked and worried
all day trying to make things neat and tidy
for the Sabbath, and have things in order
to commence another week; I have search-
ed the dirt from the corners, wiped the lit-
tle finger marks from the doors, washed
and scrubbed until both brain and hands
are thoroughly tired; the chairs are set back,
the furniture dusted, the fire shines bright
and supper is ready-a cheerful picture cer-
tainly. But presently the doors open and
in comes a troop of noisy children with
muddy feet. How every tramp and every
scream goes through my weary nerves and
aching head, but it is Saturday night and
the little ones must all be washed and dress-
ed clean for Sunday. That is a work
on which mothers in general are posted, and
certainly the most trying labor of the day;
for who ever washed a child that had not a
sore somewhere and did not give a pierc-
ing shriek at the most unexpected moment;
scratches and chapped hands are generally
the order of the day. A friend of mine
tells me that she has to wash her children
before night, as their father is tired when
he comes home and does not wish their
noise; happy husband to have all annoyan-
ces over before he comes home.
	Another round of supper dishes to wash,
dirty clothes to pick up and things to make
tidy again. The children put to bed and 
all quiet, mother crawls into bed with the
fretful baby, tired and aching in every joint.
and after tossing and turning awhile goes
off to sleep thanking the Lord that Satur-
day night is over once more. And this is
the picture of Saturday night for the ma-
jority of mothers, and will answer for a ma-
jority of the years notwithstanding the
poems and pretty things that are written
about Saturday night.
	I ought to tell you something about how a
woman writes, at least how I write, it may
not suit all women as well. I often think
of a picture I saw once, called "The pursuit
of art under difficulties." It represented a
man trying to paint a picture: He was
standing before an easel, trying to keep a
baby still by holding it straddle of his
shoulders, while three or four older ones
were turning somersaults, and tossing so-
fa cushions at each other just behind him.
And that is the picture I think of when I
try to write. I often do not complete two
lines without stopping to talk of something
else, or getting up to wait on the children.
It is "ma this" or "ma that", so I hope my
readers are not disappointed if I fail to give
them anything very entertaining; but re-
member that it is the pursuit of LITERA-
TURE under difficulties.
	When I was cutting garments last fall a
neighbor lady coming in to assist me said,
"let me show you my way, perhaps you will
like it better." She tore two pieces the
length that was wanted, folded them
neatly together, laid the pattern on and cut
both sides at once. I was so well pleased
that I always cut that way since, it saves
so much time. I always thought it such a 
tedious job to cut garments, and I suppose
there are many who are just as awkward as
I was.
	When I was a little girl about twelve
years old, there was a lady who gathered
the children to her house both boys and
girls one afternoon every week and taught
them the principles of the Gospel. She
sang with us and taught us the meaning of
the hymns. I had never before thought of
any meaning being connected with them;
she also had us read verses in the Book of
Mormon and the Bible, and explained them
to our childish understandings, taught us

[Column 3]
to pray and told us the meaning of prayer.
There was a houseful every Thursday after-
noon, and I suppose there are many now liv-
ing who can remember their first childish
efforts at speaking and praying, and the
principles of honor and honesty instilled in-
to their minds by her kind and zealous la-
bor. It was a labor of love. She said it
was her mission, and that she kept the
names of all her scholars and gave them to
President Young. I have not seen her for
many years, and do not know if she is liv-
ing or dead. But this I know, her memory
lives in one heart at least, and I shall al-
ways think of her with reverence. Her
name is Hencord, and if this should meet
her eye she will have the satisfaction of
knowing that the seed she sowed has
born good fruit in one heart at least, and
her mission was not all in vain.
			MARY.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
	On the second and last day's session of
the Woman's Suffrage Association, just held
at Tallmadge Hall, Washington, Mrs. Gage
in the chair, the following proceedings oc-
curred, as reported in the Washington
Chronicle—
	"Mrs. Lockwood called attention to a vis-
it of a delegation from Utah to the Presi-
dent of the United States, in regard to the
Suffrage privilege in that Territory, yester-
day morning; and she said she saw in that
a design to prevent the women of Utah from
voting, and offered the following additional
resolution in that connection, which was
also adopted—
	"Resolved, That the right of Suffrage
being vested in the women of Utah, by
their constitutional and lawful enfranchise-
ment and by its peers of use, we denounce
the proposition about to be again presented
to Congress by the Utah ring for the dis-
franchisement of thousands of legal voters
in that Territory, as an outrage on the free-
dom of the people and a gross invasion of
a vested right; that we denounce the abo-
lition of the system of numbering the bal-
lots, in order that the women may be thor-
oughly free to vote as they choose, without
supervision or instruction; and that the
chair appoint a committe of three persons,
with power to add to their number, to
memorialize Congress and otherwise to
watch over the women of Utah in this re-
gard during the next twelve months.'
	"The chair appointed Mrs: B. A. Lock-
wood, Mrs. S. J. Spencer and Ellen C. Sar-
gent as the committee."


A DEVONSHIRE rector who was master
of a rattling pack of hounds, was much in
want of a curate. His church warden—
Zozer—paying the market town a visit, was
thus accosted by his grocer; "Well Mr. Zo-
zer, have ye got a coorate yet fur Bridg-
well?" "Not yit, they don't all suit mais-
ter; but there's his advertisement so I reck-
on he'll soon get one;" "Wanted, a curate
for Bridgwell; must be a gentleman of mod-
erate and orthodox views." Orthordox,
Mr. Zozer, what does he mean by orthor-
dox?" "Well," said the church warden
thoughtfully, and in deep perplexity, know-
ing the double nature of the curate's duties,
which were secular as well as sacred. "I
can't exactly say, but I reckon 'tis a man
as can ride pretty well."


To most men, experience is like the stern
light of a ship, which illumines only the
track it has passed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS,  } Editors.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
		AN OPINION.
	If the present Congress would adopt two
measures—n[-]mely to admit Utah as a state
and grant the women of the United States
their political rights—it would make a gener-
ous showing for America's Centennial. But
men holding authority do not seem inclined
now, more than in times past, to make any lib-
eral move toward either of the causes referred
to, especially the former.
	They appear, these public officers who are
invested with so much power, at least some of
them appear to be desirous of seeking justice—a
kind of justice—enacted. But they are so
short-sighted, so willfully blind that they can-
not or will not comprehend what justice is or
ought to be in relation to an innocent and
much abused people, the Mormons.
	Totally disregarding the crimes and corrup-
tion which exist in their own midst, which
they do not and cannot deny, they still seek,
as they have been doing for years, to justify
themselves in reaching out to Utah, extending
malignancy against polygamy.
	His honor, Chief Justice White, in his recent
charge to the Grand Jury, introduced some
striking evidences—as he supposes doubtless—
in favor of the suppression of polygamy as be-
lieved in and practised by the Latter-day
Saints. But his arguments like those of his
numerous predecessors, want the quality of be-
ing altogether sound, according to the sense in
which a Latter-day Saint must view them.
	The Judge says "If Mormonism cannot sev-
er itself from polygamy, it will be to it the
bridal of death." But the Lord has promised
better things to those who honor and obey the
doctrine of Celestial marriage; and the Saints
have occasion to trust Him rather than to fear
the predictions of those who understand not
His law and enter not into covenant with Him.
	His honor speaks of "testing" the Mormons
and their religion "by a standard which the
world recognizes as just," but it is not to be
supposed that the Lord of Hosts would recog-
nize a judgment thus rendered against His
people and against the religion of His Son Je-
sus Christ.
	The Judge gives the Mormons much credit
for industry, frugality, temperance and hon-
esty; that they have redeemed this portion of
country from sterility; have neither beggers
nor alms-houses, and are a law abiding people
in every respect but one. This one objection-
able practice he styles "the principle of self-
destruction." But a careful and honest inves-
tigation would readily show that this is a mis-
taken idea in which the Judge indulges. That
the polygamy of the Mormons is a self preserv-
ing principle instead of being self destroying.
	He says "The supreme law-making power is

[Column 2]
all against the advocates of polygamy." In
this he is again mistaken, for he fails to recog-
nize the All supreme power of God, which man
cannot gainsay, and by which polygamy was
instituted among the Saints.
	He speaks of "Forty millions of people
against less than one hundred thousand," and
says farther, "The public opinion of the civil-
ized world is against polygamy, and in the
nineteeth century no institution can stand
against this public opinion." Polygamy has
stood for a number of years, in this century,
however; and if its advocates still hearken to
the words of the Lord and strive diligently to
know and do His will, with such a Command-
er-in-chief they have nothing to fear from the
public opinion of the world, civilized or un-
civilized.
	His honor compares the polygamy of the
Mormons with the slavery of the South, as
others have done But did God ever command
the white people of the Southern States to
make slaves of the negroes, to buy and sell
them like cattle, and put them to work like
dumb beasts? If the holding of slaves was any
part of the religion or religions of the Southern
people it was never made to appear so. And
if God had spoken to those people and com-
manded them to keep slaves, surely he would
have sustained them in doing so against all
opposition, or he would have warned them
when He wished the practice discontinued.
The Lord never gives commandments wherein
He fails to uphold and sustain those who listen
to Him and seek to carry out His purposes.
	Therefore no Latter-day Saint need think of
surrendering to the opponents of truth. But
all should be in readiness to receive the word
of God, determined to live by it whatever its
requirements may be.
	Should Congress pass laws by which the
Mormons will be robbed of their political
rights, (but we do not believe they will.) it
will only redound to the glory of God in some
new and unexpected manner, so that the Saints
may still sing with the ancient psalmist.
	"Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee;
the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain."


[Column 1]
		AFFECTATION.
	"A man of sense can artifice disdain,
	As men of wealth can venture to go plain:
	I find the fool when I behold the screen
	For 'tis the wise man's interest to be seen."
			YOUNG.

	Active people are usually the most natural
and unaffected, in any point of character or
style. People who are wide awake and ener-
getic generally have ideas and manners of their
own and are not dependent upon outside in-
fluences or impressions for any advancement
or growth of intelligence. Self-help is the best
preservation against imitation. Affectation is
most frequently the result of a want of anima-
tion a lack of energy, the effect of listlessness
and indifferenee; it is always easier to adopt
the ideas and tone of another than to invest
one's self with originality, that is only copy-
ing, whereas the latter requires some inher-
ent genius; persons who are not endowed with
faculties are justifiable in adopting the style of
others. To think requires exertion, exercise of
the brain, and to think to some purpose re-
quires one to cultivate their perceptive facul-
ties and powers.
	The fool never thinks, or rarely, and then
his thoughts are only narrow and selfish.
Those who possessing the powers of mind and
body equal to all the exigencies of life allow
themselves to drift into the ideas of others and
and adopt them, without thorough and close

[Column 2]
investigation, are not worthy the respect of
their cotemporaries. Such persons are certainly
accountable if led into error, for being endow-
ed with powers of judgment, and too idle to use
them, is a grevious sin. Would it not be just
as consistent to array one's self in the garments
of another and parade them before the public,
as to take possession of their ideas and herald
them forth as the spontaneous growth of one's
own fertile brain. Such people merge their
own individuality into that of the person whose
cloak they assume, and having no self-respect,
therefore command no respect from others.
	All who would have an honorable name and
an influence of any lasting good, should re-
spect themselves sufficiently to act unaffect-
edly on all occasions, and to express them-
selves only upon those subjects with which they
are thoroughly acquainted by careful study
and observation.
	To play one's own part in the great drama of
life, is not only more commendable and praise-
worthy, but more truly beneficial to one's self,
than to idle away one's time in copying the
manners and imitating the style of another,
while the character to be represented lies idle
and the duty of sustaining it devolves upon
another. Truth is substantially the same, but
one must understand it to be truth from all re-
liable sources of information, otherwise one is
as likely to accept error as truth, taken upon
the testimony of another. All persons who
have arrived at the age of understanding
should be able to give "a reason for the hope
that is within them" else they are likely to be
deceived, for let those in whom they trust and
whose opinions they hold sacred, become dark
or as abstruse in their system of thinking, then
they too fall into darkness. But let each one
be assured for themselves and they will stand
or fall for themselves.
	All who possess true dignity of character will
act in accordance with their own convictions,
or guided by the spirit of God, independent of
those whose attributes they may justly admire.
Affectation is in itself disgusting to every per-
son of refined taste or cultivated mind. If any
person thinks they can ever attain any emi-
nence social or exclusive, without diligence or
application they are mistaken.
	Some people seem to look upon others and
wish the knowledge and attainments they
have gained could be bestowed upon them by
enchantment; but to gain the prize, one must
practise self-denial and apply themselves
closely to the achievement of the fixed purpose.
There are persons who are perhaps looked upon
as idlers who work harder than the day-labor-
er; brain work is the most engrossing of all
work. You may hear the plowman singing as
he drives the plow the carpenter whistle as he
shoves the plane, but the Dr. the lawyer, the
lecturer, the manager of business etc. must
keep silence and think. Many people imagine
one's thoughts spring up spontaneously like
mushrooms in certain productive soils, and
that it is as easy to preach, and write as to per-
form manual labor adapted to the person's
physical strength; but let those who judge thus
become familiar with profound thinkers, elo-
quent preachers and brilliant writers, and see
whether there are not hours of abstraction and
nights of sleeplessness. They will discover
what it would be well for such persons to know,
that the highest prizes are hardest won; and
the greatest victories are not to be obtained by
the cowardly and shrinking. It is easier to fol-
low than to lead, it is far easier to follow along
the beaten path that another has cut by their
courage and skill; but to mark out one's own
way, in spite of custom, fearless of [-]eers, or
criticisms or even sarcasm, is worthy a hero.


It is true of some people, that to affect others
is their nature, for they have no standard of
their own, apart from their surroundings and
the people about them, or the imaginations
and phantasies they construct from the authors
they read. They can readily change their
model, but can never be themselves. They
have no originality and cultivate no strength
of character to aid them, but are liable to be
drifted about hither and thither the victims of
circumstances, or at the will of a stronger
mind.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.	141


HOME AFFAIRS.
	ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.—Those excellent ap-
ples from Santaquin, were large, fair, delicious,
and, like true friends, "unrotten at the core"
Their real value was greatly enhanced by an
"Honorable" presentation. Many thanks to
our highly respected and worthy sisters, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Pres. of the Relief So-
ciety, and Mrs, Mary Stickney, Pres. of the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association.
			E. R. SNOW.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT is calculated to
contain a condensed record of the Relief So-
ciety and each of its branches throughout the
Territory. Therefore whenever the death of
any one of the members of the Society occurs,
an accurate account should be forwarded to the
EXPONENT. But we have before stated and
now repeat, that we cannot publish obituary
poems.


WOMEN'S CENTENNIAL TERRI-
		TORIAL FAIR.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, RETRENCHMENT
	ASSOCIATIONS, AND ALL OTHERS INTEREST-
	ED IN THE WELFARE OF UTAH.

SISTERS:
	Without an appropriation, which you are
aware, our Honorable Legislature has not seen
proper to grant, we cannot forward our speci-
mens to the "Woman's Pavilion" in Philadel-
phia as was anticipated.
	Notwithstanding this disappointment, we
need not regret the efforts that have been made,
but let us turn them to good account, and do
the next best thing, by uniting our energies in
getting up a Centennial Territorial Exhibition
at home.
	It is anticipated that many of our own, and
of other nations who visit the National Exhi-
bition will, in crossing the Continent, come to
Salt Lake City, to whom our Fair will be an
object of attraction, if we are energetic in col-
lecting curiosities of all kinds—specimens of
Art and every variety of manufactures &c, &c.
	This subject was proposed to a large assem-
blage of the Senior and Junior Co-operative
Retrenchment Association convened in the 14
Ward Assembly Rooms on Saturday last, and
a unanimous vote passed in favor of the move-
ment.
	A home Exhibition has many advantages
over one abroad. The expenditures are less,
and the risk in loss of property in transporta-
tion, avoided.
	Those who nobly responded to the call, and
are bravely at work preparing specimens, can
now proceed more leisurely; and the hundreds
who necessarily declined doing, on account of
the little time allotted, will now enlist their
skill and energies, and a more general interest
will be manifested.
	Another important consideration—we shall
not be so particular in the selection of articles,
and consequently, many more varieties will be


admitted, and a larger number of duplicates of
the same varieties, which will call into exer-
cise every grade of artistic ability. It is de-
signed that the Fair shall be open during two
months, probably from the middle of June to
the middle of August.
		ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 9th, 1876.


R. S. REPORT.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Knowing that you feel a decided inter-
est in our advancement, I send you a report
of the Thirteenth Ward Retrenchment As-
sociation, and of the progress made since
our organization in March 13th, 1875. Our
society then numbered twenty three mem-
bers not including the officers. Now there
are seventy-five belonging and numbers
steadily increasing.
	In August last our President Mrs. E.
Thomas, opened a knitting school for the
young ladies of the society, teaching all
kinds of wool knitting, principally jackets,
intending to be ready in the fall to fill or-
ders for them.
	The young ladies were successful in learn-
ing, but have not been able to obtain yarn of
colors and quantity to suit them. There is a
lively interest taken by the President, as-
sisted by some of the members in preparing
articles for the Centennial. Last week she
visited the Provo Woolen Mills and expects
to receive from there a good assortment of
colored wools.
	There is great interest taken, by the
members in improving and gaining a know-
ledge of their religion; all seeming to real-
ize the advantages offered by meeting to-
gether and being instructed by those who
are spending their time for the good of
Zion.
	Most Respectfully Yours,
			L. A. Ashby,
				Secretary.
	Thirteenth Ward, Jan. 26, 1876.


EDITORS OF WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Knowing that you delight in everything
good, I send you the following

		GOOD JOKE.
	The question "What is an acute angle?"
was given to the worst boy in school. He
did not hesitate but boldly answered
	"Bet Hotche's nose."
	The boys thought it a good joke, but it did
not end there. It was Monday morning,
but Bet had a good memory, and on Friday
afternoon among the closing exercises for
the week she was chosen to read a selection
from the Bible. She opened the book and
read in a very impressive manner,
	"When the Lord comes to make up His
jewels, some will be first chosen whom
many of you my schoolmates, think little of.
But for such fellows as David Dodd, no place
will be found in Heaven, except they repent
of their foolish ways and seek forgiveness
for their trespasses."
	"Dave" shortly afterward signified his
penitence, and "Bet" readily forgave him.
He always attends Sunday school and meet-
ings now, something his mother could nev-
er prevail upon him to do before. He still
declares that "Bet" coined the best passage
of Scripture he ever heard. And notwith-
standing her angular nose, he has taken her
to the lectures and parties for three years


in succession. Next spring they are to be
married.
		MAUD LILY.

	P. S.
	"Dave" was about to relate this joke in
one of the meetings of The Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Association, but after
reflection, he thought it would do the Re-
trenchment girls more good, so upon his
suggestion I send it to you.
			M. L.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Frozen potatoes may be cured by soaking them
in water three days before cooking.

	Remedy for Chillblains.—One ounce of tannin
to be dissolved in a pint of water and four scru-
ples of iodine in a sufficiency of alcohol; the solu-
tions to be mixed up to two pints. Then make
the solution hot and immerse the affected part in
it as long as the heat can be borne.

	Stuffed eggs.—Boil them hard cut them in two
and remove the yelks, and beat them up with a
little grated ham, parsley, pepper and salt to taste;
place this mixture within the whites, cut the un-
derpart a little so as to make them stand well on 
the dish, and serve with white sauce.

	To Ice a Cake.—Beat the whites of two eggs
to a stiff froth, mix in gradually half a pound of
icing sugar till quite smooth, lay the mixture
evenly on the cake after it is baked and before it is
cold. Place it in a cool oven to harden but not to
brown. It can be ornamented if wished before
putting it in the oven.

	Novelty Pudding.—Make a teacupful of strong
well-cleared coffee; beat four eggs with five ounces
of sugar, one pint of milk previously boiled, and
a half pinch of salt, add the coffee strain into a
pie-dish two inches deep: put the dish into a sauce
pan with sufficient boiling water to reach to the
middle of the dish; put into a moderate oven till
quite firm; when cold, sprinkle powdered sugar
over it and glaze with a red hot iron.

	Cheap Pudding.—Peel and core about half a
dozen apples according to their size, cut them in
slices and lay them in a pie-dish; sprinkle them
with sugar (powdered) and then put a thin layer
of apricot or other jam. Take two ounces of ar-
rowroot; mix it with a pint of milk a little sugar
and a small piece of butter; stir it over the fire
until it boils, and then pour it into the pie-dish with
the apples and jam, and bake until it is done.

	Starching Linen.—Make a liquid paste with
good fine starch and cold water, and stir in boiling
water until a stiff paste is formed, and add white
wax say one ounce of wax to a pound of starch,
the exact proportions for smaller quantities can
only be determined by experience. If it is de-
sirable that the linen should be very stiff, pow-
dered gum arabic may be added to the cold water
with which the starch is mixed. The strained
starch should be thoroughly rubbed into the arti-
cles after they have been well wrung out, after
which they should be placed between dry cloths
and laid on an ironing board and rubbed in one di-
rection with a soft rag to distribute any lumps of
starch. Collars etc. should be ironed dry with a
hot iron and considerable pressure. The sticking
of the iron may be prevented by drawing it while
hot over wax and wiping it with a rag dipped in
salt.


Childrens Clothing.—Every mother should re-
member, that a small body is much more easily
chilled, and therefore needs much more protection
against cold than a large one, and that a child, ex-
cept when in active exercise, should be compara-
tively much more warmly clothed than a vigorous
adult.


142		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			FROM HAWAII,

		A UTAH BOY'S FIRST EXPERIENCE
			AWAY FROM HOME.

	By courtesy of Brother Geo. H. Taylor,
supt. of 14th Wd. Sunday School, we are
enabled to publish the following interesting
epistle from Elder Samuel P. Richards.

	I well remember with what feelings it
was that I arose before the school to bid
good bye to my mates, and the school with
which I had been connected ever since its
first organization in the ward; realizing at
the time, that I was to leave probably for
years, and possibly for ever, to go forth and
labor in the vineyard of the Lord, in a for-
eign land and among a people speaking a
language foreign to my own, and to pro-
claim to them the truths of the everlasting
Gospel, trusting in God alone for assist-
ance.
	My associations with the Sunday School
were always pleasant and many are the
good principles and ideas I there learned,
that have been useful to me, and which I
never shall forget.
	I left home, relatives and friends on the
first day of Nov. 1873, accompanied to Og-
den by some of my relatives, whom I bid
good bye at the depot at 7.15, p. m. when
the cars started and we sped swiftly on the
way.
	Although the separation from those near
and dear to me left feelings of sadness in
my heart, yet it was not long before they
were expelled by the excitement with
which I was surrounded, and through my
desire to see the new scenery and every
thing that was of interest to be seen on the
way, for it was a beautiful moonlight night,
and objects at a considerable distance, could
be seen almost as distinctly as at noon-day.
	Our little party consisted of six persons.
viz. R. G. Lambert and wife, H. S. Wool-
ley and wife, B. Stringham Jr. and myself,
all young, the eldest of the company being
but 23 years old.
	We were all of a somewhat lively dispos-
ition and consequently did not hug sorrow,
which somewhat surprised the passengers
on the train, for numbers of them asked us
"how it was that we, leaving our homes
under such circumstances, could do so and
feel so light hearted?" Of course they did
not know as we did, that we were going ac-
cording to the call of the true servants of
God, to do His will and His work, and that
He did not require us to pull long faces and
to go with downcast countenances.
	To enter into minutiae and tell about all I
saw on that short, swift ride of two days
and two nights, over nine hundred miles
of road of the most beautiful scenery,
would take up too much of my time, and the
space of this letter, besides tiring your pa-
tience. Suffice it to say that every minute,
almost, exhibited some thing new and in-
teresting to one who had never before left
home in the valleys of the Rocky Moun-
tains.
	The second day of our traveling we pass-
ed a great deal of beautiful scenery through
Truckee, from where large quantities of
lumber are shipped to S. L. City, and over
the Sierra Nevada mountains. Over that
part of the road, there are a great many R.
R. stations where little towns have sprung
up and where the trains stop for a few min-
utes at each place. Shortly before reach-
ing a station the engine whistle would
blow which would apprise the people of the
near approach of a train. Hardly would
the gratings of the wheels of the stopping
cars cease, when numbers of boys and girls,

[Column 2]
who probably never had the privilege of
attending Sunday school, would be seen
running to and fro with baskets on their
arms, crying out to the passengers to buy
their fruits; for they were little fruit ven-
ders.
	When we arrived at Sacramento, and
while the train was stopping for half an
hour, I went on board a large steam boat
standing in the Saeramento, near its bank.
	There were also many other vessels near
by and these were the first that I had ever
seen. It was also the first time that I had
ever seen a really large river and city,
and also so many people gathered together
at one place; with the exception of when
the semi-annual conferences were held in S.
L. City. But the Sacramento R. R. depot
is t[--]s thronged nearly every day.
	At 7.30 p. m. on Monday the 2nd day
from home, the cars drew up at "Oakland"
ferry, on the opposite side of the harbor
from San Francisco and we—the passengers
—were ushered, or huddled rather, into
what at first appeard to be a sheep pen, in-
closed by a high picket fence, but which we
soon found out to be the entrance to the
harbor ferry boat.  The way we went in
there was like driving sheep into a corral,
for there were a great many people waiting
to go in and the entrance, or gate, was a
narrow one, admitting only one person at a
time, for no one was allowed to go in who
did not have a ticket to present to the keep-
er.
	At the wharf on the opposite side there
was an immense crowd assembled and it
was with difficulty that we followed our
guide to the coach that was to take us to
the hotel. It seemed but a minute 'til I
found myself on top of that coach with a
number of other,s and was riding through
crooked winding streets and cross roads, in
the midst of rumbling vehicles and clatter-
ing of horses hoofs over the pavement of
rough cobble stones, and we came to a stand
in front of the hotel.
	What a relief it seemed to get into a
quiet room where we could hear ourselves
talk. I almost imagine I can hear that
rumbling noise now...We previously ex-
pected to spend but one day in San Francis-
co, but the sailing of the vessel, which was
to take us, was postponed from Wednesday
to Saturday. We passed away the time
in looking about the city and visiting places
of note and interest.
	'Twas here that I first saw, in large num-
bers the news boys and boot blacks, of
whom most Sunday School children in Utah
have heard so often. It was really amus-
ing to see and hear them parading the
streets at their different avocations. One
thing I did not notice in the metropolis of
California, but which is prevalent in most
large cities, and that was many beggars in
the streets asking for alms.
	Our time was both pleasantly and profita-
bly spent in the large city, and the rustic
country lad saw many things to open his
eyes and cause him to wonder. My young
Sunday School friends can never realize how
many people there are in the world, 'til
they have the privilege of visiting some of
the large cities of the world.
	Saturday afternoon, Nov. 8th, we went
on board the Bark "Comet," which was to
carry us across the great Pacific ocean to
our destination. Sails were raised, and a
small vessel, called a "tug" was hitched
along side of the "Bark" and hauled it out
past the "Golden Gate," the name given to
the entrance to the harbor. There are many
beautiful sights to be seen in San Francisco
but that from the deck of a vessel while leav-

[Column 3]
ing the city and sailing out through the
bay is really grand to behold.
	While the "tug" was fast to our vessel, it
glided smoothly over the surface of the
sea, and everybody on board seemed to feel
first rate; but just as soon as the "tug" let
go, the vessel began to roll and rock, and
then, O! what a change came o'er their (the
passenger's) dreams. One by one they be-
gan to descend into the cabin, and to hunt
for their berths, or beds, and long before
we were out of sight of the "Golden State,"-
the once crowded deck of the vessel was al-
most entirely deserted. This was the re-
sult of sea sickness, something which af-
fects nearly all, who live on land entirely,
when they first go to sea.
	Not being troubled with sea sickness my
self I could not sympathize with those who
were; but it is such a disagreeable thing
that those who are afflicted with it do not
care, at the time, whether the "ship sinks
or floats" or whether they "live or die."
All but two of our little party were sick,
but in the course of three or four days they
were well and hearty, and we all enjoyed as
best we could, the balance of our long tedi-
ous sea voyage.
	On the morning of the 17th day out from
San Francisco, we arose from our berths
and found ourselves in sight of land, the
vessel sailing busily along the island of
"Oahu," the principal of this, the "Sand-
wich Islands," group. This made every
heart glad, for all were weary of the sea
voyage and wishing to get to land.
	Of course the vessel was immediately in
an uproar, the sailors making preparations
to enter the harbor and the passengers pre-
paring to go ashore. Before we came in
sight of Honolulu, the pilot boat was seen
sailing toward us, for the pilot had pre-
viously been signaled to come aboard and
take the vessel in.
	Having been sent to labor amongst the
inhabitants of these islands, I was, of
cource, naturally anxious to see what the
people looked like and also to hear their
language. I therefore drew near where the
boat came along side of the "Bark." Imag-
ine my astonishment on beholding some
half dozen large, dark-skinned, naked na-
tives; at least their only article of clothing
was what is termed in native, a "malo,"
tied about their loins. When talking it
seemed to me that what they said was one,
long, continuous word, uttered in one breath,
and the question immediately sprung up
within myself; "I wonder if I shall ever be
able to understand any one, who speaks as
fast as they appear to talk?" Then remem-
bering the promise of the servants of God
"that I should obtain a knowledge of the
language of the people" the question was
speedily answered.
	When we left home (S. L. City) the trees
had shed their leaves, winter had put on
its own peculiar robes, and we had seen the
snow laying on the ground. But on arriv-
ing here it seemed like passing from win-
ter to spring; for here the grass was green
and growing on the hills, the leaves green
on the trees and the flowers in bloom in the
neat, pretty gardens.
	It was the sudden change that made
every place in Honolulu, (the harbor city
and capital of this group) and on the island
appear so beautiful. It was, to us, like en-
tering into a paradise.
	As soon as the native saints heard of our
arrival they flocked to where we were stop-
ping, to see us; but as they could not speak
a word of English, nor we a word of Hawa-
iian, we could not converse with them
only by motions until they brought in an in-


terpreter, when we told them all the news
from the "Valleys of the Mountains."
	We rode on horse back 32 miles to Laie,
the head quarters of the church on these
islands, and over the most beautiful part of
that island. The natives, men, women
and children, gathered around as soon as we
arrived to see the new comers, and brought
us "Leis" (wreaths of flowers strung like
beads) with which they nearly covered the
wives of the brethren; and they also sang
a variety of native songs for us.
	Our reception was indeed a pleasant one,
the only regret we had being, that we could
not utter a sentence of native language.
	We reached Laie on the 28th of Nov., and
on the 13th of the following month (Dec.) I
left the brethren and sisters (from Zion,) and
the pleasant associations with them, and
started off to live amongst the natives and
study their language. One of the brethren
who understood the native tongue accom-
panied me to a little village called Kawai-
kepal," about 22 miles from Laie, and after
holding a meeting with the saints, introduc-
ing me to them and seeing me provided
for, he returned and left me alone with the
natives.
	Such questions as "Wasn't you home sick?
Didn't you get the blues? Were you not very
lonesome there all alone with no one to talk
to but natives?" Might arise in the minds
of some; but I can truly say, in answer to
such questions, no, not at all.
	Had I had nothing to do I certainly would
have been lonely and home sick, but I had
plenty to occupy my time in studying the
language, committing words and sentences
to memory, and in trying to converse with
the natives for practice.
	Whenever a tired or lonely feeling would
come over me I would take a stroll and hunt
for some one with whom to try and con-
verse, and all such feelings would soon be
expelled.
	In this way I spent three months study-
ing, at that one place, returning to Laie pre-
vious to our April conference, and a very
short three months it seemed to me, my
mind being so engrossed in seeking for the
language, that the time passed very rapidly.
	I presume that most of the Sunday School
scholars, at least the larger ones, have heard
at some time or other, about the principal
article of native food called "Poi," and have
formed the opinion, or conceived the idea,
that it is a very disagreeable thing for a
white person to eat. Let a person who had
never tasted, look at it and he would natur-
ally think so; but when a person once gets
used to it there is no food, which I can think
of, that is more pleasant and agreeable; es-
pecially when hungry.
	It is made of a vegetable that grows in
the water and is somewhat similar to the
beet in shape, but which grows with the
larger end downwards. After the vegeta-
ble has been cooked with steam, being pla-
ced over red hot rocks and then covered
over tightly to prevent the steam from es-
caping, it is then pounded up fine on a
board with a rock, after which it is mixed
with water and formed into a paste of suit-
able thickness to suit the persons eating it.
The natives always eat it with their fingers,
It is eaten with fish fowl or meat of some
kind.
	We seldom find knife, fork or spoon, at a
native house, and not being accustomed to
eat with our fingers, we therefore have to
take such articles along with us in our trav-
els. "Poi" is not the only article of food;
but there are potatoes, squash melons, and
a variety of delicious fruits. It may seem
strange to the young people of S. L. City,
to be told that water melons are now ripe
here in the month of December, which is
almost the middle of winter there, but it is
so. I have, myself, eaten water melon here
this month, and there are ripe fruits of
some kind, fresh and growing, to be had all
the year round.
	We have no such thing as snow or frost
on these islands, it is summer all the year
round; consistently it is only by thinking
of the months that I can remember when it
is winter at home.
	There are many peculiarities of the na-
tives that would be interesting to relate, 
but I have not time to enlarge upon them.
The people generally, are kind and very
hospitable, and in all my travels I never
was refused hospitality but two or three
times when I asked for it. They are al-
ways free to give when they have, especi-
ally anything to eat; and it is a custom
with them, when ever a stranger or neigh-
bor comes to their place, to ask him, or her
to eat, providing they have anything, and
as it is not etiquette to refuse, a native will
sometimes when travelling around, eat from
three to ten times a day. I have often had
to eat when I really did not wish to, to
avoid giving offense.
	Natives seldom take thought for to-mor-
row, but if they get a sumptuous supply to-
day they turn in and eat it all up if they
can, and let the morrow take thought for
itself. Through this way of living they are
often compelled to go hungry.
	The men and boys usually do all the cook-
ing, and the women and girls work in the
"Lois" (where the food is cultivated in wa-
ter) and in the potato patches along with
the men.
	This people are generally very fond of
animals and it is no unusual thing to see
them keeping pigs, dogs, cats, chickens,
turkeys and geese, and allowing them to
run in and out of the house just as they
please; but when we visit and stay with
them they drive all the animals and fowls
out of doors.
	I have slept in native houses when there
were dogs, cats, and pigs within, besides
any quantity of little animals such as mice,
cockroaches, fleas and mosquitoes. Natives
can live and be happy in the midst of all
these things.
	How thankful to the Lord the children of
the Latter-Day Saints shoudl be, that they
have neat, clean, comfortable houses in
which to live, and kind parents to care for
them and teach them cleanly habits.
	Not so with the children of this people;
they run in a manner wild; go where they
please; when they please; and do just
about as they like. The parents have very
little control over their children.
	According to the law of the land every
child, when old enough, is compelled to at-
tend school so many hours a day; conse-
quently nearly every body, old and young
can read and write; but when out of school
their time is spent in play, for they seldom
do any work while attending school, which
is until they are from 12 to 16 years old.
	If it was not that they are dependent on
their parents for food, they would not work
at all or obey their parents commands. But
as it is they have to work a little and give
some heed to their parents in order to get
their food. Unless the young girls and
boys go to some English or high school, they
are not taught to be industrious, to do any
neat or useful work, learn trades or keep
themselves neat and tidy.
	Of course there are honorable exceptions
to this general rule but they are very few.
I believe the children living on Laie dress
better, are more cleanly, better behaved,
and know more about useful and beneficial
employment than do the children of any
other place on these islands, outside of the
English schools where they make it a point
to teach these things.
	Again, there is some little respect shown
there, to virtue and morality, which is not
the case with the mass of the people through-
out these islands. The almost total disre-
gard to these great and Godly principles is
the great cause of the astonishlingly rapid
decrease in the population of these islands
from over eighty thousand in 1850, to about
twenty thousand at the present time. An-
other cause is, that they have the true and
everlasting Gospel preached in their midst,
but they disregard its mandates, will not
obey its principles, nor will they hearken to
the councels and instructions of the ser-
vants of God laboring in their midst; there-
fore the wrath of the Almighty rests up-
on them.
	I have traveled around every island of this
group, where people are living, and we are
allowed to go; and many times have the
natives pointed out to me places where
there were cities, villages and lands that
were thickly populated with natives when
Geo. Q. Cannon and a number of the breth-
ren came down here in 1850, to open up the
Gospel of Life to the people, that now are
desolate and barren wastes.
	When the remnants of Israel living on
these islands, are gathered out to the land
of their inheritance, their numbers will be
very few indeed unless the Lord works a
wonderful change with the people.
	Since October conference I have been
traveling continually from one island to an-
other, returning to head quarters at the end
of each six months, to attend the confer-
ence, rest a couple of weeks or so, and then
start off again.
	Our labors amongst the outsiders, in pro-
claiming the Gospel to them is, to look at it
naturally, almost ineffectual, for they have
heard it so often, and have set their minds
against it through fear of their priests, that
they do not want to hear it any more.
	We therefore cannot do much but travel
amongst the sains, or the members of the
church, and teach and encourage them to do
right, live their religion, and keep the com-
mandments of God.
	It is that there are a few souls, who are
honest and trying to keep the command-
ments of the Lord, that gives us encourage-
ment in our labors. Much good can be done
by setting a good example if in no other
way.
	I have often attended the public meetings
of the Calvinists and Catholics the only
Christian sects established among the na-
tives, but never had the opportunity grant-
ed me of speaking in their churches but
twice. The priests fear to grant us the priv-
ilege lest we convert their members and
they (the priests) thereby loose the dollars
and cents that they get from them (the
members). They labor for money, and that
only.
	Br. Stringham (my fellow laborer) and
I recently visited the leper settlement on
the island of "Molokai." It almost seems
that the Lord foresaw the calamity that was
coming upon this people, and therefore pre-
pared that wonderful and applicable natu-
ral prison for those of the loathsome dis-
ease; for there are but two ways of entrance
or to egress from the place, and those are by
sea and down a very high and steep moun-
tain path.
	We slept at the settlement one night held
meeting with the members of the church,
and preached to an audience of lepers. It


is a sorrowful and heart-rending sight to see
the condition in which those poor human
beings exist, for it is a mere existence.
Not only are grown people affected with it
but also children and even babes. On my
former visit I saw them in every form of
the disease, from the first outbreaking on
the babe to the poor helpless being who
was within a few hours of undergoing that
great separation of soul and body, for then I
visited the hospital wards; but the last vis-
it I avoided the wards, not wishing to again
behold the awful sight. God will punish
those who disregard His laws.
	Bro. J. H. Napela, whom many may re-
member having seen in Utah in 1870, and
who is still at the settlement attending on
his wife, wishes a kind remembrance to all
with whom he made acquaintance while in
Salt Lake City.
	There are now seven hundred lepers
at the settlement, and about that many
more not yet gathered in from amongst the
people. Many having the disease are secre-
ted by their friends.
	As I have to write in a rather uncomfort-
able position, laying flat on my stomach on
a native mat, for in the native houses we
seldom ever find either stools, chairs or ta-
bles, I begin to feel tired. And I fear that
the length of this letter will wear out your
patience. What I have written I sincerely
hope will be of interest to all who pursue or
hear it read; for I have penned just such
thoughts as came to my mind that I sup-
posed would be of interest.
	I would say to the children of the Sun-
day School: Continue to be punctual attend-
ers; hearken to and carry out the counsel
and instructions of your teachers; store your
minds with useful knowledge, by reading
good books, and especially the publications
of the church; cease to read all fictitious
novels for they will never do you any good;
always be obedient unto your parents and
God will bless you.
	If opportunity offers I may at some fu-
ture day, again write to the school. *	*


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	143


144		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FRANCHISE IN SANFRANCISCO.

	I am glad to know that there is one per-
son who can see the wisdom (?) of being
obliged to fold his ticket just four times, &c.
&c. Why, if all the minutiae of political
life and government have to be brought
down to so nice a point and every one treat-
ed as a knave, what a life this will be, and
how laborious and expensive!.
	"Steerforth" seems to infer that I spoke
without being familiar with the law I was
writing of. I was fully acquainted with it 
and spoke from my own standpoint of judg-
ment in regard to it. Since then I have
heard some of our ablest politicians and
professional men ridicule this same law se-
verely—as though a corporation could not
control the vote of their employees outside
of the prescribed hundred feet as firmly as
inside the hundred feet! This political wire-
pulling and money control of everything in
life is disgraceful to an independent people.
	If I could vote I would like to see the
person who could control my vote folded or
not folded, within or beyond a hundred feet
of the polls. I think the feminine charac-
ter is more decided and individual in all
that it believes to be right, and could wo-
men vote there would be fewer feminine
votes sold—even for a dress—than mascu-
line votes for a glass of whiskey.
	I should think employees would want the
perfect freedom of their vote to put in pow-
er a class who would not cripple them with


wrong influence, and any attempt to control
them thus ought to meet with co-operative
or at least individual, rebellion.  Progress
comes through independence of judgment,
and it seems to me that one's vote should be
the last act of freedom to sell.		BETH.
—Ex.


DIVERSIONS.

	IN the case of a man who died from hav-
ing all his teeth knocked out with a hatch-
et, an Alabama jury rendered a verdict of
death from ax-dental causes.

	A CLIENT complained to his counsel that 
the latter rambled too much in his argu-
ment to the jury.  "Oh," exclaimed the
barrister, "don't you know scattering shots
hit the most birds?"

	"TELL me, Mary, how to woo thee," is
the title of a well-known ditty. "Give her
a pair of diamond earrings and a tortoise-
shell comb for her back hair," suggests a
contemporary:

	IN a mining district not many miles dis-
tant, a queer sort of an original fellow ex-
pressed himself in the following ambigu-
ous style. "I DESCRIBED five dollars to
keep the road in DESPAIR, and then that
confounded railroad company made a TREAD-
WAY from the INJUNCTION to the CONFIN-
ING works."

	A BETTER retort is rarely heard than one
made by Andrew Johnson, in a speech de-
livered from the steps of the White House
when he was president. Some one in the
audience interrupted him with the remark,
"you used to make clothes!" "Well, if I
did" responded Mr. Johnson with the cool-
est self-possession, "didn't I make them
well? Can anybody say that, when I was
a tailor, I didn't make good clothes and
make them to fit."


[COLUMN 1]

AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries. I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
	Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at 
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not or hand.
	Wm. H. MILES, supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
	Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET,

[COLUMN 2]

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
	AGENTS FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MILLINERY

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS,  &c.

O.L. ELIASON
	DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted fo
ONE YEAR.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

	LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantla.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
or
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
	29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
76, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1876.		No. 19.


[For the EXPONENT.
	PRAYER
How sweet to the soul is prayer's holy spell,
Its heart-soothing powers no language can tell,
As up from earth's shadows the soul takes its flight
To dwell for a season in heaven's bright light.

When joy fills our bosoms how sweet 'tis to say,
We thank thee dear Father for life's pleasant way.
For sunlight and moonbeams and all the fair flowers,
That dock with such splendor life's beautiful bowers.

We thank Thee for morning's bright glorious beam
That scatters the shadows from night's weary dream.
For cool shades that screen from the noon's piercing ray
And for the sweet rest of the calm closing day.

We thank Thee for home, for the dear ties that bind
Our hearts in one chain with the good of mankind,
For fond words that cheer amid sorrow and pain,
Like murmuring streams in the desert's wild plain.

And oh when the heart is in anguish laid low,
When moonbeams and sunlight's all shrouded in woe,
'Tis then—"Oh my Father" ascends to the skies,
And weak hands are lifted for help to arise.

And the one in Gethsemane's garden bowed down
Who first bore the Cross and now weareth the Crown,
Lifts up His afflicted, guides on through the night
'Till safely they're moored in the Haven of light.

We thank thee our Father for this precious gift,
While such boon is ours not wholly adrift;
As the compass and star is the mariner's guide,
So prayer and the Savior when sorrows betide.
			HOPE.


A WORD TO THE GIRLS.

	In a previous number of the EXPONEET,
there was a few words of advice to mothers,
to warn their daughters. I have often
wished that I could express my views on
this subject. There are none who can
more fully realize this advice than those
who have grown up daughters. The ques-
tion has often presented itself to my mind,
do our girls realize the precipice on which
they stand, or the danger they are in, when
they encourage the attentions of those who
are not of us? I never see or think of
them but I feel to say girls beware of the
outside elements, and shun them as you
would serpents in your path, for it is not
love they bear you, or yours, but destruc-
tion they would like to see come on the
people of God; and destroy that which some
of our best men have shed their blood for.
	Girls obey your parents in all things; re-
member they have had more experience in
the world than you have; never allow false
ideas to hold you from seeking your moth-
er's counsel, or confiding in her; you will
find all through life, she is the best and tru-
est friend you can have, for your joy will
be her joy, and and your troubles will be
her troubles.
				M. J. R. HAMPTON.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 15th, 1876.


ESSAY ON BLESSINGS.

	WRITTEN FOR THE YOUNG LADIES'
RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE
ELEVENTH WARD.

	All of us are, from time to time, receiv-
ing blessings from our heavenly Father.
Some, certainly, through faithfulness, re-
ceive greater blessings than others; but we
as sisters, having all descended from the


same heavenly parentage, ought at all times
to feel to bless one another.
	I often think how consoling it is, in times
of sickness and trouble, to have a good Lat-
ter-day Saint, one that is filled with the
Spirit of God, come and take you by the
hand and say "God bless you!" It seems
to cheer you up and make you feel truly
that God does bless you.
	When the Lord first gathered His people
to this land, [-]e promised to bless the land
for their sakes, and to make the desert blos-
som as the rose; and He has done so. This
is one of the greatest blessings the Lord
has bestowed upon many of his people, giv-
ing them a home in Zion.
	I know if we always try to do the will of
God, and keep His commandments, He will
continue to bless us; for we are told that
there are great blessings in store for the
faithful. When we live so that we can en-
joy the Spirit of God at all times, we feel
very happy, and feel that we are blessed
above all other people. We are promised
great blessings if we will live for them; but
we all have our weaknesses, and it seems
we cannot overcome them all at once.  But
God is more merciful to us than we are to
one another, and continues to bless us even
though we sometimes err.  And the more
we try to overcome our failings, the more
faithful we are, the greater blessing we shall
receive; for the Lord is always ready to give
us all blessings that are needful for our good
if we will only ask Him in faith.  There
are times when we may ask for something
and the Lord for some wise purpose may
see fit to withhold it from us, but because
His ways are not our ways, neither His
thoughts our thoughts.  He knows what
things we are in need of, and is always
ready to impart them to us.
	May we always live our religion and do
right, that we may enjoy the blessings God
has in store for us.
		RHODA CUSHING.


ADVERTISEMENTS.—The advertisements
in a newspaper are more read than the
thoughtless imagine. They are the map of
a large class of men's capabilities in life.
The man who contemplates doing business
in a distant town takes up the local paper,
and in its advertising columns sees a true
picture of the men he has to deal with, a
complete record of the town—its commerce,
its home trade, the facilities of store keep-
ers, its banks, and in almost every case he
can estimate the character of the men who
are soliciting the public patronage. The ad-
vertising page is a map of the town, a rec-
ord of its municipal character, a business
confession of its citizens, and, instead of
being the opinionated production of one
man, it is freighted with the life thoughts
of a hundred.


MISS Emily L. Taylor, principal of Adam's
Female Academy, is preparing a history of
that institution for the New Hampshire de-
partment at the Centennial; incorporated
in 1823, and so being the oldest female acad-
emy in the State, its history will no doubt
be very interesting.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY E. Wager, for a long time
one of the editors of the Rural New York-
er, and a well known and popular corres-
pondent of several leading journals, was
married lately to Prof. Willian B. Fisher,
of Dickinson College, Pa.
	THE SCHOOL of Design in San Francisco,
of which Mr. Virgil Williams is Professor,
recently gave an exhibition. The first
prize, the Avery gold medal for the best oil
painting, was awarded to Miss Susie Du-
gan, daughter of Mr. T. H. Dugan, formerly
of Boston.
	DR. MARY E. Walker lectured in San
Francisco, Jan. 19th, to gentlemen, the ex-
periment proved that a lady may talk to
gentlemen and meet with perfect civility,
and the large and intelligent audience who
gathered to hear the Doctor's remarks not
only listened attentively but at intervals
warmly applauded them.
	SOME OF the Cincinnati ladies propose to
take a whole room in the new Centennial
building, and to inlay the floor with tiles of
their own painting, and to fresco the walls
themselves. The Hartford ladies propose
that some of their number shall take les-
sons in painting and frescoing in order 'to
follow their example.
	FRANCIS P. Blair, former editor of the
Globe is living near Washington-  He is
eighty-five years of age, and in feeble
health. He speaks gratefully of the assist-
ance he has received from his wife while
editing the Globe. Although only two years
his junior, she still accompanies him in his
horseback rides in summer.
	AT THE Moody and Sanky Revival meet-
ing in New York, one day last week, in the
afternoon, no one was admitted but ladies,
except the male members of the choir, a
few reporters, and the usual detail of police-
men. The audience was such an one as
New York has probably never seen before.
Between 6,000 and 7,000 women were seat-
ed in one room, every grade of society be-
ing represented, and forming a congrega-
tion to be seen few times in the course of
a life.
	ILLUMINATING GAS from cork: to the list
of substances capable of furnishing gas of
good quality cork is now to be added. Re-
cent experiments made in Bordeaux, France,
have given results both economical and sat-
isfactory, and it has been definitely decided
to use the material in the lighting of the
city. Works for burning cork are now in
process of construction. The fragmen[-]s of
cork, principally waste after cutting bottle
stoppers, are distilled in a close retort. The
flame obtained is stated to be whiter and
more brilliant that that of coal gas, while
the blue zone is much smaller and the den-
sity greater.


THE party of young lady teachers who
lately left for Cape Colony, South Africa,
consisting of Misses Anna and Nellie A.
Smith, of Sunderland, Carry Ingraham, of
North Adams, and Emma Landfear, of
New Haven, have reached their destina-
tion.


146		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

	R.S. REPORTS.

MILL CREEK WARD, SALT LAKE CO.,
	Jan. 29, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is at the request of our worthy Super-
intendent, Sister Spencer, that I write a
few lines giving you a brief report of our
association; although I have been silent, we
have been diligent in doing all the good we
could. We hold our meetings monthly in an
upper room of the Ward House, which has
been neatly furnished for the accommoda-
tion of the sisters. Our meetings are gen-
erally pretty well attended and a good spirit
prevails; we have excellent instructions,
from our beloved and honored Superintend-
ent and from the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety who visit us frequently, and also from
the young ladies of the Retrenchment As-
sociation.
	M. H. NORTH,
	Secretary.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, Feb. 8th, '76.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I don't know that you ever have had any
report from us here in our little Ghald[-]a,
(the land between two rivers), and as such I
hope that a few lines will not be without in-
terest to you and your readers
	We have been organized for quite a
length of time into a Relief Society and
enjoy our Association very well. But as
the Spirit of the Lord has moved upon the
presidency of the church to call more es-
pecially upon the young and rising genera-
tion, we had the joyful privilege to enter
into the Retrenchment Society on the 3rd,of
January, A. D. 1876. President William
Neely attended to the organization. Mrs.
Anna Hansen was elected President and
Mrs. Christine Neely and Mrs. Mary Han-
sen first and second Counselors, and Mrs.
Mary Petersen Secretary.
	We are twenty-nine in number, have a
comfortable Meeting-house to meet in and a
meeting every second week and enjoy our-
selves first-rate, and shall all the time do
our best to be worthy of the name of a Re-
trenchment Society in the very spirit and
meaning thereof.
	The EXPONENT is read with great inter-
est among us.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	ANNA HANSEN.

	CHARLESTON, WASATCH, Feb. 5th, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps it would be gratifying
to your numerous readers to hear some-
thing from this out-of-the-way place, as it is
very seldom it is represented in your paper.
Our Relief Society is in a flourishing condi-
tion considering the many disadvantages
which we labor under; our settlement be-
ing scattered, which makes it very incon-
venient for the sisters to meet especially in
the stormy weather. A more energetic per-
son than our President Mrs. Emma Brown
it would be hard to find, she is indeed per-
severing under difficulties which would dis-
courage an ordinary mind. If there is a
case of suffering or destitution she is ready
with open hands to relieve the poor and sick
as she has proven in a number of instances.
A partial reorganization has been made and
a united feeling prevails; and we will strive
to live our religion more faithfully in the
future.
	We have received in the Society $145,00.
Disbursements $120,00. Remaining in the
Treasury, $25,00.
	SINA MURDOCK Secretary.

[COLUMN 2]

	Eighth Annual Report of the Relief So-
ciety of the 17th Ward.
Total amount donated to the so-
	ciety for the fiscal year.................$322 93
Total amount disbursed to needy
	for fiscal year,..........................	341 35
Cash remaining in treasury,.............	9 05
Order, ..............................................	2 00
Merchandise,....................................	56 27
At interest,........................................	483 00
Amount of articles sold during
	year,..........................................	65 75
Amount given to Sister Pratt for
	her studies,................................	43 50
Amount given to purchase seats
	for school-house,.......................	637 30
	Bro. John Pack having generously do-
nated a building lot worth $1000, we pro-
pose to put a house upon it, for the use of
the Society.
	MRS. G. A. ALDER, Sec.
	MRS. H. DOREMUS, Treas.

	MANTUA, BOX ELDER CO., Feb. 1, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps a few lines from this place would
not be out of the way, therefore, I will at-
tempt to give you an account of our Relief
Society, but must confess that we have
nothing to boast of.
	We have since the organization of our
Society, elaborated a capital to the amount
of three hundred and eighty-seven dollars,
out of which $27 has been donated to the poor,
$142 has been paid toward the Emigration,
$170, is partly on hand and partly lent to
needy persons for a short time, the balance,
$48, is in the way of ladies' hats, artificials
and trimmings, made by ourselves for which
there is a ready sale.
	We intend after a little to have a shop or
workhouse built, wherein our sisters will
manufacture straw hats, artificial flowers,
trimmings, breakfast shawls, nubias, hoods,
neckties, scarfs and such other articles, as we
can make both for ladies and gentlemen.
	The sisters have a determination to fo
low out the counsel and instructions re-
ceived from time to time from our President
Br. L. Snow, among others to let our adorn-
ment be the workmanship of our own hands,
to patronize home production, and to buy
nothing from Babylon that we can possibly
do without. One of our resolutions is to
dress neatly and in a becoming manner, not
indulging in foolish fashions; but create
our own fashions, such as will conduce to
our health and comfort.
	We meet together once a week to bear
our testimony to the thngs of the king-
dom, and to talk over our own affairs in
general. I can truly say that union and a
good spirit prevails among the sisters, who
are always ready to meet for worship or for
work, and we trust in the God of Israel, to
crown our feeble efforts with success, that
we, united with our husbands and brethren,
may forward His design here on the
earth.
	We were very much edified and instruct-
ed by Sister Eliza R. Snow and others,
while on their visit to us last summer.
Hoping that we may ever follow their coun-
sel and example, is the desire of your sis-
ter in the new and everlasting covenant.
	MARYRETHE KELLER.

	ROCKVILLE, KANE CO., UTAH.
		Feb. 14, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have lately reorganized our Relief
Society, and have also had established in
this place the Young Men's Mutual Im-

[COLUMN 3]

provement Association, and a Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Association, and I be-
lieve that a great deal of good will come of
these societies. The sisters all seem to be
alive in the work, and are doing all they
can to assist the brethren in rolling on and
building up the kingdom of God. We never
have had the pleasure of seeing many of
your very interesting papers, but we do not
intend to be without them again as long as
we can get means to pay for them. We are
living in an isolated little hamlet in the
mountains, for which we ever feel to be
thankful, as we can live our religion with-
out fear or molestation. As our time is very
much occupied by family duties and other
matters, we must necessarily be short with
our letters, but will send you a report of our
progress and prosperity anon.
	Yours in the Covenant,
	FANNIE P. SLAUGHTER,
	Secretary, Relief Society.

	PINE VALLEY, UTAH,
		Feb, 8, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	On the 2nd, day of December, 1875, the
young ladies of Pine Valley were organized
into a Retrenchment Association with the
the following officers:
Miss Celestia Snow,		President,
	"	Ann J. Bryce,
	"	Mary M. MEEKS,
	"	Julia A Keele,		}Counselors,
	"	Sarah A. Bracken,
	"	Vilate Burgess,
Miss Mary L. Snow Secretary, and Miss
Cleopatra Burgess Assistant Secretary. We
meet once in two weeks, open our meeting
with singing and prayer. We have thirty-
four members enrolled. The society takes
the EXPONENT, and we occupy our time in
reading from its columns, and also from the
Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and
Covenants, and in speaking to each other of
the things of the Kingdom. We have ta-
ken a vote in our meeting to refrain from
round dancing. We were very much pleas-
ed and interested with the instructions of
Sister E. S. Barney while on her visit south.
That we may be able to follow her advice is
our earnest desire.
	Yours respectfully,
	MARY L. SNOW, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	INJUSTICE is very hard to bear. Yet we
must all learn to expect it, and to suffer it
as calmly as we can. To have our best deeds
turned and twisted into evil ones, to have
our acts and words utterly misrepresented;
to have those turn cold to us for whom we
have always felt the warmest friendship, is
only the fate of humanity.

	LIVING TOO FAST.—In our day, both
married and single persons live too fast. A
bachelor now has need of an income such
as would once have satisfied a man with a
family; and the husband and father requires
for his single household the means which
would have twenty years ago supported two
families, if not three. Daughters are sent
to fashionable schools at an enormous cost,
there to learn extravagance, and, in short,
to become fitted for anything but to become
the wives of poor men. Sons are ruined
with unlimited pocket-money, late hours,
and almost total absence of paternal control.
Thus we not only waste our estates, but per-
petuate the vice in our children. In every
way we are living too fast.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	147


LINES,

ADDRESSED TO MRS. E. A. WHITNEY S.
L. CITY, ON THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF
HER BIRTH-DAY.

Where'er, Dear Friend, on earth I roam,
	Tho on the land or on the sea,
My inlod, oft to my "mountain home"
	Reverts to "loved ones" there, with thee.

And, as familiar scenes I trace
	Around my home, with friends most dear,
I always meet one precious face,
	That beams with love my heart to cheer.

A face that wears affection's smile,
	True index to the heart within—
A peaceful heart, devoid of guile—
	A heart that grieves to witness sin.

A heart that fourscore years, but five,
	Has ever throb'd for others' woes—
Rejoiced when truth and virtue thrive—
	A heart from whence affection flows.

In heaven above, the righteous find
	True recompense for deeds of worth;
And there awaits a husband kind
	To welcome thee from scenes of earth.

And there with him, who waits for thee,
	To welcome thee to peaceful rest—
A rest from earthly sorrows free,
	With queenly robes, with heaven's blest.

This feeble token, worthy Friend,
	As birthday gift, I send to thee,
And as your fervent pray'rs ascend,
	Remember, O remember me.

	ELDER ISAAC GROO.
Sydney, Australia, Dec. 26th, 1875.


[Column 1]
HOW TO RESIST TEMPTATION.

	WRITTEN FOR THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE 13th
WARD.
	In complying with our President's re-
quest, I hope the Lord will bless me with
His spirit, so what I write will be benefi-
cial to myself as well as to the rest. I
would like to say a few words about tempta-
tion. In the prayer given us for a model
by our Savior, one sentence always lays
with force on my mind. It is this: "Lead
us not into temptation:" Mark, it says par-
ticularly, "Lead us not into temptation,"
showing that sometimes we are tempted for
a righteous purpose. How can that be?
Did you ever read in the Doctrine and Cov-
enants where it tells that a certain man was
delivered over to the buffetings of Satan.
What was the cause of this? Because he
had transgressed the law. Therefore, when
we are delivered over to temptation, we are
either tried so that we may prove to angels
and men that we will stand firm, or else
we have transgressed the law. We may be
tempted while we are doing our best, but
unless we yield to it, it can do us no harm.
Of course as long as Satan roams the earth,
he will endeavor to lead us astray in every
direction, still we must learn to resist his
evil promptings. For this purpose we are
placed here; to keep our Second Estate; to
overcome the world, the flesh and the Dev-
il. And how important is our every step
here to make, or to mar our whole lives
hereafter. Some things may seem trifles
here, but their influence over our future,
can scarcely be comprehended, unless looked
at by the light of revelation. Satan will
only be bound by being shut out from the
hearts of the Saints; and it is in our gov-
erning ourselves in small things, that we
are enabled to overcome great temptations.
When the Evil One finds us invulnerable on
one point he ceases to tempt us there.
Hence when we pray to be kept from temp-
tation, we pray to keep the law in every
particular. We must strain every nerve to

[Column 2]
overcome our weaknesses. How much do
you suppose it availeth Lucifer to tempt
President Young? Very little indeed. We
should try and live so that we too should
have a coat of mail impervious to the shafts
of the enemy. In saying strain every nerve
to do right, I would like to explain how to
resist temptation in a few instances.
	Did you ever notice the different influen-
ces that surround different persons? To il-
lustrate: we, all of us, I presume, are ac-
quainted with one or more who are not Lat-
ter Day Saints. In meeting them on the
street or at our homes, are we not impelled
to talk of balls, parties, and books (gener-
ally novels) we have read? Again, when
we meet one of the "girls," does not our
conversation unconsciously turn on the light
current topics of the hour. The last sensa-
tion, the coming theatre, Mrs. John Smith's
new bonnet, and "how cruel it was of Tilda
Ann to play off on Adolphus." On the oth-
er hand when we meet some good Latter
Day Saint, do we not, unintentionally per-
haps, speak of the meeting we attended
last Sunday, and how well Bro. So and So
spoke? These, although we may not realize
it are the corresponding influences that ac-
company people. Thus we may see we
should cultivate the society of the Saints,
for, from always talking on these frivolous
subjects we make them our study, so as to
be able to talk more fluently about them,
and so eventually they come to be our every
day thoughts. This is one of the ways
Satan has of leading us out of the line of
our duty. We meet our outside friends,
and are so cordially invited to call and
see them, and they treat us so well and are
so agreeable that we go again and so on.
	Another thing I wish to touch upon, is
reading novels. I used to be in the habit
of reading a great many but since I have
been re-baptized I have quit it altogether.
I consider that it is as hurtful to the mind,
as drinking tea and coffee is to the body.
And one of the principal rules of the Unit-
ed Order is, that we will improve our time.
And I think that our time is worse than
wasted in this evil practice. It seems to
me more hurtful than visiting outside ac-
quaintances. We have all realized the dis-
satisfied, discontented feeling that immedi-
ately follows reading a novel. Very often we
neglect our duties or studies to finish them,
and sit up half the night besides; and
when we are through, we resolve we won't
read another in a hurry. Do you suppose if
this habit did us no harm it would effect us
thus? Why no! Of course not. Not only
this, but life is too real, too earnest to spend
in reading such trash.
	Perhaps you will think, "well I can do noth-
ing to-day so I will just read this one story;"
but resist the temptation, and instead select
one of our Church books, and if you presist
in your determination to let the novels alone,
this morbid craving will leave you. And in
its place will be a freedom that is indescrib-
able, and you will take a pleasure in read-
ing good solid books that you never can
while under this "novel yoke." Believe
the words of one who strove honestly and
prayerfully to break up this evil habit, and
feels that through the Spirit of God, she has
come off conqueror, and enjoys the possess-
ion of a peaceful conscience in this particu-
lar. Now girls you will have more time to
attend meetings if you read fewer novels.
Do try and let them alone and realize the
blessing from it, for there's a blessing fol-
lowing obedience to every commandment
of God. And he has commanded us through
his prophet to quit this ruinous practice.
	I would like to say a great deal more, but

[Column 3]
I am so full of thoughts myself, that I am
rather churlish of saying much to others.
But that is the way we improve I suppose,
each one exhorts the rest to keep the law,
and let us endeavor to keep it more faith-
fully at the same time ourselves.
					SALOAME.


A GOOD BEGINNING.

	There are many good and noble resolu-
tions made by the great majority of people
very frequently, but the effort of putting
them into operation is delayed from time to
time until they are forgotten or all interest
is lost in them, and therefore no good is ev-
er derived from them. Some persons, there
are too, who continually have so many good
resolutions in theory but fail to put them in-
to practice because they attempt to perform
them all at once, and reach no real benefi-
cial results from any. But the greatest im-
portance in all things is to take the first step,
to make a beginning. Remember in all
things, if you do not begin, you will never
come to an end. The first weed pulled up
in the garden, the first seed in the ground,
the first shilling put in the savings bank,
and the first mile traveled on a journey, are
all important things; they make a begin-
ning, and thereby a hope, a promise, a
pledge, an assurance that you are in earn-
est with what you have undertaken. How
many a poor, idle, erring, hesitating outcast
is now creeping and crawling through the
world who might have held up his head
and prospered, if instead of putting off his
resolutions of industry and amendment, he
had only made a beginning!
	If you intend to reform an obnoxious
habit, make a firm beginning; if you wish
to do a good act begin at once, for no one
can be too early in a good work.


WOMAN'S WRONGS.

	Although the condition of woman has
materially improved, it is still far from
what it should be. She is still hampered
with social fetters, still enslaved, still ig-
nored the right of self maintenance co-
equal with man. She is still debarred the
privilege of living, unless at a sacrifice of
self-respect, in the prostitution of the no-
blest traits of her nature. If she is will-
ing to work, she discovers few avenues of
employment open. Man has monopolized
nearly all, and she must compete with him
in the battle for existence. Strong though
she may be in heart, her tender nature is
illy fitted to cope with the stronger attri-
butes of her masculine rival, and she is gen-
erally compelled to quit the field, and eith-
er starve, sell herself in public, or under
the guise of marriage, immolate her wo-
manly purity. Truly, woman has many
wrongs, but the greatest of all is the diffi-
culties she encounters in earning an honest
livelihood."		MARY ANN.
—The Gem.


"HE that can apprehend and consider
vice, with all her baits and seeming pleas-
ure, and yet abstain, and yet distinguish,
and prefer that which is truly better, he is a
true wayfaring Christian. I cannot praise
a fugitive, form cloistered virtue, unexer-
cised and unbreathed, that never sallies out
and seeks her adversary, but steps out of
the way when that immortal garland is to
be run for not without dust and heat."—
John Milton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GRENNE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	}Editors

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. MARCH 1, 1876.


FORETHOUGHT.

	It is not the easiest thing in the world to look
away into the misty future, and contemplate
just where a decided course in life must lead to,
or the exact means to be employed in gaining
certain ends. Nor is such careful consideration
at all times pleasing. But easy or not, pleasing
or otherwise, this looking ahead is one of the
most important steps in the road to success;
and one too, most commonly neglected.
	These facts are not confined to any class of
individuals, or to any country; they are gener-
al; or else the world's record would show fewer
accidents and failures in all departments known
to the pursuits of human ambition.
	There are times in almost every life when
"the wheel of fortune" seems to become so
clogged that farther attempts at progress are
apparently futile. When the human heart is
so crushed and helpless beneath the weight of
trying circumstances that it feels itself the
most worthless, unenviable thing on earth. In
undergoing such an afflicting ordeal, how nec-
essary it is to be able to look ahead and calcu-
late with accuracy. Some times the best and
only thing to be done is to stand still and await
the issue. But how many there are who have
failed to acquire the self-control which would
enable them to wait calmly the progress and
development of events; or the foresight which
would be to them a covincing power, an assur-
ance that their patience would be rewarded!
	How many evils might be averted by a little
sound forethought! How many serious mis-
takes would be avoided if the perpetrators only
learned to calculate beforehand!
	What loving, but care burdened mother,
would ever tell her boy to "quit his playing in
the house and go along out of her way!" if she
calculated what might be the result? Would
she speak in any such way if she thought her
words would sink too deep into the little, ten-
der heart, leaving a scar that could never be ef-
faced? A wound, the smarting of which would
cause the child to think, "Mother does not care
where I go so I do not trouble her, and I'll go
where I like and with whom I choose and do 
as I please!" Would she ever drive her little one
from her presence for one moment if she thought
that all her love and faithfulness in after years
could not win him back and keep him by her?
No, indeed! If mothers learned to calculate
in time, no pains would be spared to establish
the most entire and steadfast confidence be-
tween their children and themselves; never
would one word be uttered that could serve in
the least degree to form a barrier, or stay the
upwelling fountain of earth's most unselfish
love.
	If a young man should well consider the fact
that in taking an occasional glass of wine he is

————————————————————

liable to be drawn on, little by little, to become
a miserable sot, would he ever touch a drop?
No, he would turn from the temptation as from
a venomous reptile! Yet there never lived an
habitual drunkard who became such in one day.
There probably never lived one who calculated
at the beginning that he would ever fall so low,
or so disgrace himself and his parentage. 
	Does a chaste and pure-minded girl ever suf-
fer herself to be lured into merely flirting— per-
haps with a man whom she knows to be a little
dishonest in some respects, but who is enter-
taining as a social companion and fascinating as
an admirer—with the expectation that he will
finally lead her to shame and ruin? Oh no!
Yet it often happens so, to girls who, a few
months earlier in life, woul have believed such
a dreadful thing impossible.
	The suicide or the murderer would, doubtless,
have shuddered at the thought of so fearful a
crime, a year or two before its perpretation.
	The Latter-day Saint who refuses to yield
obedience to the voice of the Lord in a very 
small matter, has often no thought of stepping
entirely aside and denying the Faith. But un-
less penitence follows, and forgiveness is ob-
tained for the offense, darkness is likely to in-
crease in the mind of the individual, until the 
Spirit of God is positively withdrawn.
	These, and nearly all mistakes, result from a
want of calculation, or from this important 
faculty being misapplied. The value of wise 
and careful forethought cannot be estimated.


[Column 1]
		COURAGE FOR WOMEN.

	It is absurd for any person to assert they have
no influence, and that it is of no consequence
to the world what character they sustain, or
what course they pursue as an individual; that
others do not look to them, and they are not
responsible for any good or evil that may trans-
pire. 
	It is impossible to ignore the effects of the
bearing of individual character and life upon
society. Many instances are known, where
the sinful practice of one person has so diffused
itself as to cause many to suffer the effects of
that sin. And on the contrary, good is also
dispensed to those who partake its influe[-]ce
	If there were more brave men and women,
who would not suffer themselves to be dis-
heartened, but would cultivate that strength
of character and nobility of purpose to rise su-
perior to all obstacles in their pathway of life,
then, indeed, from their powerful influence and
practise, we might look for reform; for a better
and purer state of civil society. Courage and
endurance are necessary. Every person should
possess a vast amount of fortitude; it is as es-
sential to woman, in the nineteenth century,
as for the leader of an army. Are they not
striving to battle with CUSTOM, the tyrant who
rules with a rod of iron, and whose sway has
been so even and uninterrupted that it will re-
quire not only time, but a union of strength to
break the formidable rod to which the genera-
tions of the past have yielded willing obedi-
ence?
	In this, the dawning of the grand Centen-
nial year of America, there should be a free-
dom of right unrestrained, which should per-
meate every true man and woman. How glo-
rious would be the Record of America, if in
this year, she would accord to woman equal
with her brother, the privileges guaranteed by
the impartial framing of the laws of the CON-
STITUTION.
	Woman is held responsible for the character
of her offspring, and for many of the evils
which prevail in socie[-]y, yet she is not al-
lowed any voice or influence in remedying these

[Column 2]
flagrant evils, unless she can exert it through
the powers of [-]ascination of character, or con-
versation.
	To be sure, woman m[-]y, and does. accom-
plish much by personal influence and purity
of character, in her home and among her asso-
ciates, yet there is so much evil that is coun-
tenanced in society, in circles large and small,
that she must wage a perpetual warfare if she
would maintain pure principles and promote
good.
	How many wives and mothers there are
without any sympathy, save such as their suffer-
ing sisters can accord, and yet they must not be
allowed the privilege allotted to the meanest
and most debased of the other sex, in making
and sustaining the laws under which they
live.
	There are thousands of married women in
the United States, who would be much better
off if they had no husb[-]nd; a source of contin-
ual annoyance, dragging them down by their
vileness and intemperance; yet they are com-
pelled to support this miserable existence, or
perhaps involve themselves in greater difficul-
ties. The general exclamation is—these women
are to be pitied; but of what use is pity that
reaches no farther, that extends no real help,
that opens no way of escape?
	Woman has been the sufferer from this ter-
rible and crying evil INTEMPERANCE, and she
ought to have the privilege of using some great
er influence towards suppressing it than can
ever be accomplished through fireside instruc-
tion, home education, the lecture room or the
pen. Take courage, woman, your time ap-
proaches. Trust in God, who heareth the [-]ries
of His daughters and who will assuredly ans-
wer prayer.
	The dawning of a brighter day approaches
and already some tok[-]ns appear, some faint
glimmering of the light, that will herald in the
morning of liberty, freedom, and equal privi-
leges to man and woman, to brother and sister,
to universal humanity.


SEVERAL VALUABLE communications are
laid over until next issue for want of space,
also items of Home Affairs worthy of note.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	OUR TERRITORIAL Legislaters have occa-
sion to feel more satisfaction over the results of
their labors this year than they enjoyed over
the last former session, when Gov. Woods had
the privilege to veto all their enactments. Gov.
Emery is apparently very well pleased with
their proceedings, and approved most of them.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" has entered
upon its eleventh year; it is the only children's
paper published among the Latte-day Saints;
and is really an INSTRUCTOR in the true sense
of the word, and should be read by every child
in Utah. It would be no loss of time for par-
ents to read the little paper too, and intelligent
mothers should take pleasure in writing for it.
	THE ENTERTAINMENT by the Sunday School
Musical Union, on the evening of Feb. 21st,
was a most gratifying success. But the farce
"As like as two peas," which concluded the
entertainment, although well rendered by the
performers, was certainly unhappily chosen.
In our opinion, something more amusing, more
instructive and less demoralizing in its nature
should always be placed on the boards at the
Salt Lake Theatre. But more especially should
this subject be carefully considered on such an
occasion, when it is expected that the greater
portion of the audience will be composed of
children.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	149


AN ADDRESS.
TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE 17TH
	WARD, ON THE 8TH ANNIVERSARY OF
	      THEIR ORGANIZATION

	Eight years, burdened with their joys and
sorrows, sunshine and storms, bringing life to
some and death to others, have flitted away and
are hidden from view in the dark sea of the
past.
	As a Relief Society, we have moved slowly
along; alleviating the sufferings of the poor,
and teaching those whose hearts were weighed
down with woe and sorrow, to look upward to
the Giver of Life, and have told them of Jesus
of Nazareth ever meek and lowly, whose path
we have essayed to follow, and in whose foot-
steps we have tried to walk.
	Eight years ago, after our Society was par-
tially organized by our beloved Bishop Nathan
Davis, we were told by him to "go forward in
every good work, and we had his blessing con-
tinually;" and I believe that each one who has
faithfully attended to the duties of the Relief
Society, no matter in what capacity, can certi-
fy that blessings have attended us, both in our
labors and to ourselves. In doing good to
others, we ourselves have been benefitted.
	"Cast thy bread upon the waters, and after
many days it shall return." So spake He of
old, so that not only will we feel blessed in the
work of our Saviour, but for ourselves we are
laying up treasures in the mansions of our Fa-
ther, "Where moth nor rust can enter, nor
thieves break through and steal."
	In the death of Sister Felt, our Treasurer,
our Society sustained a heavy loss. O how can
I describe the anguish that we felt, when the
terrible foreboding came to us that we should
lose her. Then for the first time we realized
how firm and true a bond of friendship existed
in our Society; that we were indeed of one fam-
ily, daughters of one Father; and when we
gazed upon her, robed for her burial, so white,
so still, so cold and beautiful in her dreamless
sleep, our hearts, although torn with anguish,
acknowledged that Father had released her
from her life mission, and called her home; no
more to sigh and sorrow, nor grow weary with
her cares, but to fill a higher calling, in the
home of her first childhood.
	The lesson to us is, to weave our web of life
so that if our departure come suddenly, the
thread may be picked up by another, and so
on until all is completed that our Father has
decreed.
	It has been our mournful duty to tend the
sick and dying, to robe the dead and lay them
away with all that ready hands and willing
hearts could do for them.
	O, who shall say that the mission of woman
is not exalted? What true woman, with her
hand once holding the plough, will turn or
shrink into by and forbidden paths? Our mis-
sion is divine! To aid the poor, to nurse the
sick, and bid the dying look to our Father and
God in the day of their trial, is the duty of
every woman.
				MRS. G. A. ALDER.


SPANISH FORK, Feb. 22, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	In taking up my pen to write to your paper,
I feel my incompetency as a writer. There is
a passage of Scripture which says "Let your
light so shine that others, seeing your good
works, may glorify God." The Saints in this
place, both old and young, are carrying out the
counsel of our beloved President Brigham
Young, in regard to the hours of dancing
	Realizing that we are a highly favored peo-
ple, living in the light of immediate revela-


tion, receiving counsel and instruction from
the lips of inspired prophets and apostles; this
is the secret which the Gentile world cannot
solve. Judging the Saints from their own
standpoint, they call the obedience of the
Saints blind obedience, or one-man power.
Bible believers, forgetting that the Scriptures
say "My sheep know my voice and they follow
me, and he that heareth you heareth Me." The
Saints feel that Brigham Young is God's vice-
gerent here on earth, consequently are not
ashamed to honor all laws or counsels given
through him; even dancing in daylight, con-
trary to our old habits and customs.
	We are the children of light, therefore let us
walk in the light, and set an example worthy
of imitation.
	Our Relief Society held the first dance ac-
cording to counsel, on the 18th of January, un-
der the sole management of the ladies; Miss
Maria Finch, as floor-manager, discharged her
duties in a business and ladylike manner, to
the satisfaction of all; our bishop pronounced
the benediction at 10 p. m., all feeling well.
	The Bishop also had a party, en the 7th, for
the benefit of the missionaries. Our Young
ladies had a party on the 4th, the benefits de-
rived to be appropriated for literary purposes.
	I am happy to say that our young men are
also cheerfully taking hold. They held their
second Hunting-party-dance yesterday, com-
mencing at 2 p. m. They have killed, in two
days hunt, over 1000 rabbits, which was really
necessary, as they had become very destructive
to the crops. They saved all the pelts.
	As a Ward, we are striving to carry out the
counsels of those who are placed over us in this
kingdom.
	Round-dances are now things of the past with
our young folks.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of Zion,
		Yours in the covenant of peace,
			MARY FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
	OF COURSE THIS COMES FROM
		BOSTON.

	Governor P——, though a most excellent
man, who administered the affairs of his
State successfully for two years, was consid-
erably given to making himself agreeable,
especially to politicians in rank above his
own. The Governor had been attending a 
college Commencement last season, where
he had received all the honors due to a Gov-
ernor, and he felt decidedly pleased with
himself, and disposed to be facetious. There
were two doctors of divinity and several
alumni in the Governor's company. The
two D. D.'s were very agreeable, and made
it a point of laughing at all the Governor's
sallies, as many people think they are
bound to do toward people of rank.
	The Governor and party were just aboard
of the train for home. The morning was a
hot one, and the cars were full. When the
Governor and party were seated, the seats
on the shady side of the car were all taken
except one, and on this was a valise—rather
seedy-looking, like what a farmer might
carry-which, according to the rules of
railway travel, claimed the seat for its own-
er. Just before the train started, a lady
came in, showily dressed, evidently of the
"flashy" stamp, and blustered about consid-
erably because she must sit in the sun.
The Governor is a very gallant man, and
takes much pride in his favor with ladies.
He got up, and crossing over to the lady,
said, "Madame, why do you not sit in this
seat? It must be very uncomfortable to sit
in the sun."
	The lady replied that she saw by the va-
lise that the seat was taken.

[Column 2]
	"But," said the Governor, as he took the
valise by the handles, "it won't hurt the gen-
tleman's valise to sit in the sun." Then hold-
ing it up in sight of all, and with a signifi-
cant smile added, "and we hardly think it
would hurt the gentleman himself."
	The lady took the seat thus vacated, and
the Governor put the valise into a seat on 
the sunny side of the car. The two D. D.'s
thought it was the best thing they ever
heard—the Governor's joke, "It won't hurt
the gentleman's valise to sit in the sun,
and we hardly think it would hurt the gen-
tleman himself;" and they nudged each
other and pretended to laugh very heartily.
Of course the Governor was pleased: it is
always pleasant to know that our own wit
is appreciated.
	But it happened that the valise belonged
to a gentleman who held a responsible posi-
tion in Washington, also a graduate of the
collage, who had been home to Commence-
ment. He was a tall, noble specimen of
humanity, as noble as he looked, who would
never play the sycophant to a king, nor im-
pose upon a beggar. He was only a few
seats ahead, where he had stepped to speak
with a friend, and he had heard every word
of the Governor's joke. Soon he came
back, glanced at the seat which held the
lady and her baggage, when some one point-
ed across, and he quietly took the seat with
his valise.
	The Governor saw at once that he was a
gentleman, and knew that he must have
overheard his remarks, but he was a stran-
ger to his Excellency. The gentleman, how-
ever, knew the physiognomy of the Gover-
nor very well, though he was not personally
acquainted. The Governor learned forward
and asked of a gentleman,
	"Do you know who that gentleman is?"
	"That is the Hon. J—— D——, from
Washington, Commissioner of	—."
	Evidently the Governor had heard too
much. He dropped his chin, and his face
looked blank. The two doctors of divinity
also saw that their laugh had not been well
put: they had played the sycophant on the
wrong man. The Governor saw his posi-
tion, and thought the best thing for him to
do was to make an apology. So he asked a
college friend for an introduction. The
gentleman arose, and Governor P—— was 
formally introduced to Commissioner D——.
After the usual hand-shaking was over, the 
Governor said,
	"Commissioner D——, I owe you a hum-
ble apology for removing your valise, and
my unguarded remarks. I hope—"
	Commissioner D——, broke him off short,
and replied:
	"Governor, no apology is needed, nor
will any be accepted. I always yield my
seat to ladies, and my valise to hackmen;
but among gentlemen I prefer to handle my
own baggage."—Harper's Magazine.


AN English lady was declaiming against
"the stupidity of the foreigners" at a
Parisian Hotel. "My dear," said the hus-
band reprovingly, "you forget that we are
foreigners." "What nonesense Edward!"
replied the wife, "of course they are for-
eigners because we're English.


HELLOA, Pat! "Whats the matter? Is
there any one ill here?” said a gentleman
to an Irish laborer, who was engaged in lay-
ing tan in front of Fishmongers' Hall, London.
"No, sir," replied Pat, "there's nobody ill
just now, but there'll soon be a few fit pa-
tients for the hospital. There's to be a
moighty fine dinner here this evening."


150		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			﻿For the Exponent.
		TO HAL.
			[handwritten] Susa Y. Gates
	Your response to my protest, published in
the EXPONENT, I read with interest, and
really must give you credit for a fair share
of discrimination.
	Your surmises with regard to my charac-
ter and propensities were correct in the
main, though on some points you were in
error.
	You say I am "one of those girls" etc.
Now, although I signed "Old Maid," as a
Non de plume, I really do not consider my-
self so antiquated, as, from this fact, some
might be led to infer: and for fear you may
have formed an incorrect idea of my age,
personal appearances, &c., I will give a brief
description of myself and a synopsis of my
life, so far.
	I am rather above medium height, my
exact altitude being five feet eleven and a
half inches. (I hope you admire tall people:
this is leap year you know.) My complex-
ion is light, very light, and appears quite
clear when viewed by dim lamp-light, or
through a thick spotted veil: hair and eye-
brows of a deep amber tint. I have heard
of people calling my hair red, but I just put
that down to malice, knowing that it was
no such thing, but that they envied me my
golden auburn tresses. But to go on with
the description. Eyelids of a deep rose
tint, fringed with some half dozen pale yel-
low or canary colored lashes, from beneath
which peer two small, delicate eyes, on or-
dinary occasions of a subdued, ethereal blue,
but when I am engaged in animated and
vivacious conversation they are lit up with
the fire of enthusiasm and sparkle and scin-
tillate like "block diamonds." Nose most
emphatically of the aquiline type; mouth a
tripe wider than is considered the standard
of perfection, but when it is expanded with
one of my angelic smiles, reveals—at pres-
ent a vacuum, but when I get the set of
"china" I have recently ordered, I flatter
myself that I can display as fine a set of
pearl as a miss of thirteen who has never
been allowed to indulge in any excess of
sweets. My forehead and chin are not like
some I have seen, trying to push them-
selves forward into notice. On the contrary
they appear very reticent and receding,
and have to be sought out before they are
found.
	There has not been much variation, or
many remarkable episodes in my career, so
far.
	Until I was fourteen years old I stayed
closely at home under the care of my moth-
er, who superintended my education. I
was then sent to boarding school, where,
being a remarkably acute and precocious
child, I graduated with the highest honors
after a period of only eighteen years. I
then returned home with the expectation
that in consequence of my superior attain-
ments, my well-known amiable tempera-
ment, dignified imposing figure, and ex-
alted, refined and intellectual countenance,
I would, no doubt, soon be sought out by
some congenial spirit to be a companion for
—or—that is—a governess or something of
the kind.
	But the years rolled on, some twelve or
more, and I looked in vain for the fruition
of my hopes. No one seemed to appreciate
my true worth. I gave up in despair and
accepted the situation of clerk in a dry
goods store, where I spent fifteen years of
my life; I then, for the sake of variety,
changed my employment, and went into a
telegraph office as operator. I only stayed
eighteen years. I disliked the occupation.

[Column 3]
One reason was while I was there I had exper-
enced a sad disappointment.
	It was in this wise: I became acquainted,
through the medium of electricity, with a
gentleman in a distant office. We exchang-
ed photographs (I sent him the photograph
of a friend, thinking to give him a pleas-
ant surprise when we should meet,) he
seemed quite pleased with me. A propos-
al soon came over the wires, to which I of-
course returned a favorable answer.
	He came to visit me soon after, but on
first beholding me, turned pale, and trem-
bled like the culprit he was.
	You see I wear spectacles. Not as many
suppose to render my vision more clear, but
to add to the dignity of my appearance;
well knowing that I could not long occupy
the responsible position I do, with the very
juvenile appearance I present without my
spectacles.
	Well, as soon as the operator could regain
breath sufficient to speak, he asked to be re-
leased from the engagement.
	I suppose that he, poor, depraved son of
Adam, did not consider himself worthy of
even looking on a pure-minded, noble-
hearted woman, and in the fact of being a
woman, placed so far above him that it
made him feel small and insignificant to
think about it. But I was disposed to be
very lenient in the matter, and was so gen-
erous as to overlook the one great fault of
his life, that of being a man. He seemed
determined not to let me throw myself
away and sued so pitifully for me to re-
lease myself that I finally yielded, provid-
ing he agreed not to prosecute me for breach
of promise. He assured me he would take
no steps in that direction, but would use all
the means in his power to prevent notoriety.
	He seemed so completely subdued and
crest-fallen that I think he must have left
the country in perfect disgust with himself,
as I have never heard anything from him
since, and it has been about ten years.
And such is life.
	Now, before closing, allow me to display
my talent for reading characters intuitively.
You "are not what you seem." I have
talked all along as though I considered you
a man. But I am thoroughly convinced
that you are not. No such sentiment ever
emanated from the mind of man who take
such a narrow-minded view of the subject.
You are a woman; and believing you such
Sister Hal, I extend to you the right hand
of friendship.
	Yours in the common cause of Woman's
Rights and Wrongs,
		OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
[handwritten] Augusta [---] Grant


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	How People Become Ill:—By cating too much,
and too fast; by swallowing imperfectly-masticated
food; by taking too much fluid during meals; by
drinking spirits and other intoxicating drinks fre-
quently; by keeping late hours so as to relax the
circulation; by wearing thin shoes; by neglecting
to take sufficient exercise to keep the hands and
feet warm; by neglecting to wash the body suffi-
ciently to keep the pores of the skin open; by ex-
changing the warm clothes worn in a warm room
during the day, for light costumes and exposure
incident to evening parties; by starving the
stomach to gratify a vain and foolish passion for
dress; by keeping up a constant excitement; by
fretting the mind with borrowed troubles; by em-
ploying quack doctors and swallowing quack nos-
trums for every imaginary ill; by taking meals at
irregular intervals.
	Power of the Hands:—Many mothers pass
their lives in rearing their families, giving medi-

[Column 2]
cines conscientiously, sparing no needful expense,
and yet never know what a power they are in
themselves. For instance; but few mothers know
that croup, taken in its early stages, may be often
removed by such simple appliances as the mother's
warm hand laid snugly at the throat and over the
lungs of the child, flatly, in the form of a poul-
tice, and acting quite as effectually and quickly as
any poultice or linament. This, with warm cover-
ing of blankets, with the warmth of the mother's
body, has relieved cases where children had taken
a little cold, without disturbing others or the child
either. It is not well for a child to be hurried out
of bed when it begins that croupy cough, often
breathing cooler air, which is always bad for that
peculiar disease. I only wish to say to mothers,
you know not what power your own hands possess,
until you have tried them on pains and early symp-
toms of croup. Those to whom these remarks are
new, will be astonished at the result of these in-
fluences upon the patient.
	It is a shame that such a blessed and useful
agent should be abused as this has sometimes been,
by impostors, claiming that it was the power of
some Indian Doctor, or some other long-deceased
person, while the rubbing slowly with the hands
of a friend over a person in distress produces al-
most a magical effect. Perhaps we should not be
astonished that some are so superstitious as to at-
tribute this power to some spirit agency, and
could exercise this faculty. if they would, on their
sick friends; but, nevertheless, I am greatly as-
tonished when I see others, who in other respects
are intelligent, claiming a supernatural agency for
such appliances. Of course the power is more
or less great, as the person or nurse posseses more
or less magnetism, and is more or less soothing
and sympathetic. Try this, mothers, when the
first coughing comes on, and many times, you need
not take the child out of bed. Rub the throat and 
lungs well, so as to produce good circulation when
you remove the hand.
	Overwork.—Dr. Wilks of London, writing on
overwork, says:—My own opinion has already
been expressed, that the evils attending it on the
the community are vastly over-estimated; and judg-
ing from my own experience; the persons with un-
strung nerves who apply to the doctor are, not
the prime minister, the judges, and hard-working
professional men, but merchants and stockbrokers
retired from business, government clerks who
work from ten to four, women whose domestic du-
ties and bad servants are driving them to the
grave, young ladies whose visits to the village
school or Sunday performance on the organ are un-
dermining their health, and so on. In short, in
my experience I see more ailments arise from
want of occupation than from overwork, and tak-
ing the various kinds of nervous and dyspeptic
ailments which we are constantly treating, I find
at least six due to idleness to one from overwork.


The Centennial buildings at Philadelphia
are positively huge. The Machinery Hall
alone—one of the smallest of the buildings
—would accommodate with standing room
the entire population of Philadelphia, which
is nearly one million, and there would be
room enough left for the people of another
good-sized city. And this building is not
near as large as the mammoth building just
east of it, known as the "Main Building."
In this building every living soul in the
State of Pennsylvania could be supplied
with standing room, and leave a good-sized
corner for the people of another State.
Then a person can walk a hundred miles in
machinery hall, without going over the
same spot twice. In the Main Building he
could walk a hundred and fifty miles. Tak-
ing all the buildings, a visitor to the Expos-
ition can walk over five hundred miles, and
not go over any one place twice in the
whole distance.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	151


[Column 1]
CENTENNIAL SUFFRAGE FOR
		WOMEN.

		1776—1876

THIRTEEN REASONS WHY WOMEN SHOULD
		VOTE IN 1876

	["All governments derive their just powers from the
consent of the governed."		THOMAS JEFFERSON.]
	Women will vote, this year of grace 1876,
Not only in Wyoming Territory; but in
some one or more of the States, and will
help elect the Centennial President.
	This is a startling prediction. It is only
fair that reasons should be given for believ-
ing it will prove true.
	1. The coming Presidential election will
be more closely contested than any since
1844. The evenly balanced condition of
parties will impel politicians to leave no
stone unturned to secure success. Which-
ever party enfranchises Woman, in any
closely contested State, will make a brilliant
strategical stroke and secure its electoral
vote. The proposition has already been
made from a Democratic source to enfran-
chise intelligent women in some of the
Southern States in order to neutralize the
negro vote. It is regarded with favor by
some of the shrewdest and ablest Dem-
ocratic politicians. If one Southern State
disturbs the balance of political parties by
such a move in the interest of Democracy,
we may be sure that Republican politicians
will hasten to offset it by a similar counter
movement in favor of Republicanism.
	2. The Presidential election will probably
hinge on the vote of New York State. In-
telligent Woman Suffrage in New York
State would inure to the benefit of the Re-
publican candidate, as, in the extreme South,
it would inure to the benefit of the Demo-
cratic candidate.
	3. With the present voting population,
New York is hopelessly Democratic. Divis-
ions in the parties such as prevailed last year
cannot extend into a Presidential Campaign.
	4. It curiously happens that, through
Democratic divisions last fall, New York
has a Republican majority in both branches
of the State Legislature. The United States
Constitution provides that Presidential elec-
tors shall be chosen in such a manner as the
Legislatures of the several States may di-
rect. The New York Legislature may di-
rect that, in addition to present votes, all
women who can read and write, may vote
for Presidential electors The Governor can
not veto this, for the Federal Constitution
leaves this subject exclusively with the Leg-
islature. It is fair, however, to assume that
Gov. Tilden and the Democrats in the State
Legislature would favor rather than oppose
Woman's Enfranchisement, if they found it 
inevitable, in the hope of conciliating the
new voters. The Democratic minority
would probably urge the enfranchisement
of all women, in order to leave parties as
they are at present, while the Republicans
would insist on having an intelligence qual-
ification.	
	5. This would place New York among the
Republican States, and would bring forward
several leading Republican statesmen as
candidates, who have been rudely shoved to
the background by the apparently hopeless
political character of the State. If intelli-
gent women were allowed a vote for Presi-
dential electors New York would not im-
probably be represented on the Presiden-
tial ticket.
	6. Some of the shrewdest leading Repub-
licans in Albany, including, we are told,
Speaker J. W. Husted, of the assembly, see
these points even more clearly than we have
presented them, and favor Woman Suffrage

[Column 2]
for Presidential electors. The influence of
the Speaker would go a great way in pushing
such a measure.
	7. With intelligent Woman Suffrage
granted in any State, party leaders will be
quick to seize the idea wherever it can be
used to partisan advantage. Women will
vote first in closely contested States, and es-
pecially where the Legislature is of differ-
ent politics from the usual popular vote.
	8. Ten years ago there was vastly strong-
er feeling against Negro Suffrage than now
prevails against Woman's Enfranchisement.
But the entire Republican party wheeled
around in support of Negro Suffrage, en-
franchising the ignorant negroes of the
South "en masse," when it was seen that a
partisan advantage was to be gained by it.
The feeling against Woman Suffrage is not
nearly so strong as was that against Negro
Enfranchisement ten years ago.
	9. Thousands of intelligent Democrats
now regret that their party did not follow
the lead of Vallandigham in 1868, nomina-
ting S. B. Chase for President, on the plat-
form of Impartial Suffrage and Universal
Amnesty. Opposing Suffrage they lost
part of the negro vote which might else
have been retained; besides delaying am-
nesty for years, and making it the foot ball
for demagogues and third rate politicians
aspiring to be statesmen. Democrats will
not be apt to repeat their mistake of oppos-
ing the enfranchisement of any class of cit-
izens who are pretty sure of enfranchise-
ment within a few years at farthest. There
is this growing feeling that Woman Suffrage
is inevitable and near. The Boston Post, a
few years ago expressed a general feeling of
many politicians when it jocosely declared
in favor of Woman Suffrage because it
"meant to be on the winning side of the
next great issue." The Post will have to
hunt up and republish that article ere long.
	10. Various circumstances—notably the
Tilton-Woodhull scandal, have cast discred-
it on Woman Suffrage. But, though less
has been said on the subject, the belief in
the justice of allowing woman to vote has
steadily grown, as winter wheat sometimes
grows under a protecting snow bank. An
exciting political campaign will show that
no time has been lost during this seeming
reaction.
	11. Most intelligent men now concede the
justice and propriety of Woman's Enfran-
chisement, and only object that most wo-
men do not want to vote. But political ne-
cessities are dispelling women's indifference.
Women who own property need a vote, and
there is no argument against their having it.
In the Southern States intelligent women
would like a vote to prevent the rule of or-
ganized ignorance. In the North thousands
more want to vote to stop the evils of in-
temperance.
	12. During the past year the order of Pat-
rons of Husbandry, has familiarized one and
a half millions of men and women with the
idea of Woman as voters and as eligible to
office in the Grange Organization, and the
influence and power of this Order is con-
stantly and rapidly increasing. No evil ef-
fects have followed from the fact that wo-
men vote and are voted for in Grange meet-
ings. On the contrary it has had a refining
and harmonizing influence, and the pres-
ence of women in the Grange is universally
regarded as one of the chief causes of the
wonderful growth and success of the Order.
	13. This is the Centennial year. There
is universal expectation that something un-
usual is to happen; but nobody can guess
what is coming. This expectation of some-
thing unusual has in all history invariably
insured its own fulfilment. Millions of peo-

[Column 3]
ple will, this year, repeat the immortal
words of the Declaration of Independence:
"All governments derive their just powers
from the consent of the governed." The
men who periled all for this idea and for
that of "No taxation without representa-
tion" will be lauded in every newspaper and
from every rostrum in the country. It is
by such iteration and reiteration that truths
are made real to the popular thought and
conscience. What more natural than that
these constantly repeated truths conjoined
with the political necessities heretofore al-
luded to, should impress the public mind
with the idea that Woman's Enfranchise-
ment and equality in representation are the
true Centennial work, and that these after
all are the "something" that we have been
blindly expecting? If Woman's Enfran-
chisement is established in even one state in
1876, the claim of this year as memorable in
the progress of equal human rights will
never be disputed. If there is any other
way of realizing popular expectation of our
Centennial year so as to satisfy not only our-
selves but posterity and the world, it has
never been suggested.
	These are thirteen excellent reasons to ac-
count for Woman's Enfranchisement after
it is secured. Why not for believing that
it will be achieved soon?
			A GRANGER.
	Woman's Journal.


TURKISH LADIES.—I am inclined to
think, that all that we are told of the im-
prisonment of the seraglio is a great mis-
take. I suspect the Turkish ladies are un-
der no greater restraint than princesses and
ladies of rank in our country; and the hom-
ago paid them is infinitely greater. The
seclusion of the harem appears to be no
more than the natural wish of an adoring
husband to gurad his beloved from even the
knowledge of the ills and woes that mortal
man betide. Whilst he himself dares dan-
ger in every form, he wishes to protect “his
lady bird”—“the light of his harem”'—
from all trouble and anxiety. He would
fain make her life “a fairy tale;” he would
not even let “the winds of heaven visit her
face too roughly;” and as we carefully en-
shrine a valuable gem, or protect a sacred
relic from the profane gaze of the multi-
tude, so does he, on the same principle, hide
from vulgar ken his best, his choicest treas-
ure—“his ain kind dearie.” The Turks, in
their gallantry, consider the person of a
woman sacred; and the place of her retreat
—her harem—is always respected. Nay,
there have even been instances where per-
sons have fled for protection to their ene-
my's seraglio, and been thereby saved; so
that I found, that in Egypt I was likely to
be the guardian of the party, and that in
my utter helplessness I might possibly be a
panoply from danger to my protectors them-
selves. In fact, Mr. Salt seriously recom-
mended that I should always carry all our
most valuable papers and money about me
for safety.—Mrs. Elwood


WHO shall measure the subtlety of those
touches which convey the quality of the
soul as well as body, make a man's passion
for one woman differ from his passion for
another, as joy in the morning light, over
valley, river and white mountain top, dif-
fers from joy among Chinese lanterns and
glass panels.—George. Eliot.


KNOWLEDGE is precious for its own sake;
it is its own exceeding great reward.


152		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	ALL the university examinations in Italy
are open to women on the same terms as to
men.
	MISS Brandon, the author, proposes to
come over to America and give readings.
	A BILL has been proposed in the New
York Assembly, proposing to confer the
right to vote for presidential electors on all
women with $250 worth of real estate.
	MRS. Elizabeth Reuter is the oldest citi-
zen of Baltimore. She was born in Luxem-
burg, Europe, and is said to have been 109
on Christmas morning, but is still able to go
about and superintend the house-work.
	THE daughter of the late Mark Smith,
who has been studying for three years un-
der Signor San Giovanni, and who has ap-
peared in several Italian companies as Mlle.
Marco, has been engaged for the St. Peters-
burg imperial opera, at a salary of 4000 francs
a month.
	MISS Emma A. Fisher, of Grand Rapids,
Mich., has resigned her position as assist-
ant teacher at the Spring Street School, and
will enter the office of the Saturday Even-
ing Post. Miss Fisher is a talented young
lady, and promises to make an excellent
business woman and journalist.
	LADY Louisa Stuart, the last descendant
of the royal family of Scotland, died at
Traquair House, near Peebles, recently, in
her one hundredth year. She was the last
representative of a once powerful border-
clan. She was the daughter of the seventh
earl, and upon the death, in 1861, of her
brother, Charles, the eighth peer, the an-
cient title of the line became extinct.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	Another sad accident has occurred through
the use of concentrated lye for washing. Mr.
Doolan, of Provo, has just lost a beautiful
and interesting child, fifteen months old,
from drinking lye.
	Mothers, for the sake of your little ones,
be careful of your lye; or still better, if pos-
sible do not use it. If it is necessary to use
it, handle it with fear and trembling. Be
as careful as you would with a bottle of
strychnine; you would not put that down
carelessly for fear of an accident. The lye is
just as deadly, and perhaps more danger-
ous, for it is so often carelessly handled.
Every one who uses it knows, that after the
box has been wet, it continues to dissolve,
often running over the box and dropping
from the shelf, making its way into unex-
pected places.
	My sister set a cup of tea on the shelf
thinking she would drink it after a while.
In the mean time the lye box dripped into
it. She burned her mouth very badly, but
fortunately did not get any in her throat.
It caused her family-great alarm for awhile.
	Ice melted is as good as snow or rain wa-
ter, no matter how hard or impure the
water before freezing, it is pure and soft
afterward. Sal-soda is good to cleanse water
but is more expensive than lye.
	The lady's name mentioned in Pipsey
Paper of Feb. 15, is Heward, not Hencord,
as printed.
	I have not time to write much now, I
have been so crowded with Society business.
I will tell you something about it next time.
			MARY.


FLOWERS

	IN the world, a man lives in his own
age; in solitude, in all ages.
	TIME spares nothing produced without
his aid.—Boileau.
	THE follies of most people are rather ob-
jects of mirth than censure.
	THEY who place their affections on
trifles at first for amusement, will find that
those trifles become their most serious con-
cern.
	MANY practise in private what they con-
demn in pnblic, and think they pay every
debt to virtue when they praise it.—Gold-
smith.
	MANY men treat others as though they
were sinners, and then express surprise that
they do not act like angels.
	EXPERIENCE tells us that knowledge is
not knowledge until we use it--that it is
not ours until we have brought it under the
great faculty of speech.


Mrs. M. S. BENSON
Has had 25 years experience as an Accoucher and Her-
balist.  She makes a specialty of Female Complaints, and
of Fits.  Office and residence ot Morris' corner, one
block south of the Theatre on the State Road.

THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pnt at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School I rizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to  C. R. SAVAGE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

AT TEASDEL'S
 On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and 
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
 Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House,

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at 
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE, BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker Honse, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
                        Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in 
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET

MITCHELL & JAMES, 
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MILLINERY.
Mrs. C. E. Dye,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times. 

Z.C.M.I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry, 
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted fo
ONE YEAR.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
		29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1876.	No. 20.


A PICTURE IN MEMORY.

AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO MRS. E. B.
WELLS ON HER BIRTHDAY, FEB. 29TH, 1876,
	BY HER SISTER MRS. L. M. G. HEWLINGS.

I was going to write thee a letter my dear,
	All in poetic verse or in rhyme,
I had seated myself, and had taken my pen,
	And just written—"My Dear Emmeline,"
When a knock at the door called me down from my room,
	And scattered my thoughts far away:
So whether I shall finish the letter or not,
	Would puzzle me greatly to say.

I am turning the leaves of the days o'er and o'er,
	Thus the years of the past I can trace.
I am standing again, at the wide open door,
	Where I first saw your sweet infant face.
Fond mem'ry has thrown back her gates wide ajar—
	Bid me enter her silent domain.
I have wandered along 'neath hope's brilliant star,
	To the "Gardens of Childhood" again.

The dear home-faces greet me, soft hands clasp with mine,
	Bright eyes are brimming over with glee,
There is freshness and beauty on blossom and vine,
	And sweet song-birds in every green tree;
There is chanting and laughter, and frolic and fun,
	Ringing out on the breezes to-night,
The day's lessons are over, and tasks they are done.
	Was there ever a lovelier sight?

The pastime is over, we are kneeling to pray:
	Kisses are given, good nights are said.
"O, our Father in Heaven," some lispingly say,
	"Watch, while we slumber, over our bed!"
Fair, beautiful pictures, I have gathered to-night,
	Roaming through memory's gilded hall.
I have one I will send thee, so dazzlingly bright,
	It must answer, dear sister, for all.

In a warm, cheerful room, on a mild winter's day,
	There's a table spread out for a feast,
And viands thereon in such tempting array,
	Nought seems lacking the fancy to please,
The guests are all gathered: see, they march round in file
	They're saluting the Queen of the feast—
At the head of the board, a bright, beautiful child,
	Enthroned upon her cushion-like seat.

Grandpa, with white flowing hair, to baby Celeste,
	I see through the years, two score and four,
Dear parents, happy children, and "merry Aunt Bess,"
	Look the same as on that day of yore:
Only one fair face wanting to make it unique.
	Were it not for that one "vacant chair"
The circle were unbroken—the picture complete:
	But to me it seems wondrously fair.

Of the numberless blessings, kind wishes expressed,
	To bring happy returns of this day,
O, my sweet "Rosabell,"* it were needless to tell,
	But the picture is fresh as the May.
Dear sister, the letter I intended to write,
	I will finish on some future day,
But the picture accept, with a loving "good night,"
	As a gift for thy coming birth-day.

			FROM SISTER LU.
	MONDAY EVE., Feb. 28, 1876.
		*PET NAME.


[Column 1]
		A WOMAN'S REASONING.

THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY READING SENA-
	TOR CHRISTLANCY'S BILL FOR UTAH.

	If I were a favored daughter of President
Grant's (and had my experience) I would
prepare for him a savory dinner, and after-
wards a glass of the best wine, and a fine
cigar, and when his soul was refreshed, I
would tell him of Utah; the goodly length
of its territory, variety of its climate, its

[Column 2]
rich mineral resources, and so forth; the why
we came, and how, and what we found
here; the toils of husbands and mothers to
raise large families, that now people this
once desert land. It would be no trouble
to find six men who have one hundred
children all honorable, not a defect in one of
them. I would say, think, dear Father,
would it be possible for the fathers and
mothers under the broad folds of our Re-
publican Government, to say to all these
and the thousands more, you are all out-
casts. All these sons have been taught that
our constitution was framed by men inspir-
ed of God; and these fair daughters of the
mountains, that virtue was preferable to
life without it. Would not many wish
they had a Virginius for a father-if-and if?
	I would say, dear Father, can our lawgiv-
ers at the great Capitol sanction the blotting
out of a system of religion that teaches
men and women how to live pure lives and
avoid the wickedness and excesses which
are so prevalent in the world.
	Think of two thousand and more betray-
ed females in the city of New York, and
other large cities. Who looks after their
forlorn situation? Who devises means for
their protection that they may return to the
paths of virtue?
	The whole law of God hangs on the word,
"Love God with all thy heart, and thy
neighbor as thyself." Who is seeking to
live up to this higher law; who comes as
near to it as the ladies of Utah?
	How little did I think to live to see what
I have of the injustice done to an innocent
people; when a child I used to sit on my
grandfather's knee (he was a pensioner for
many years) and hear him tell of his hard
fought battles under Washington, the vic-
tories so dearly won, and what he had en-
dured. His father was one of the signers
of the Declaration of Independence.
	I would say, dear father, do you think a
polygamous grandmother can sit thought-
lessly, and read Senator Christaincy's bill,
now before Congress, to disfranchise those
sons and daughters who have been taught
to honor their country and believe in relig-
ious toleration through which they owe
their legalized rights to citizenship? Dear
father, I would like to tell you all about
the happy homes in these mountain valleys;
there were no houses of ill-fame, no ghastly
forms of excesses in the streets of Salt Lake,
not a female convict in Utah's prison, un-
til within a short time.
	How often we see a wife pale and feeble,
a hale hearty husband, and not a child to
bless their home, her days spent in loving
deeds to others. Why may she not share her
home with another? Merry children break
the silence, and the wife's heart entwines
itself around them as tenderly as if they
were her own; their mother an honored
wife. And who is robbed? None. But
another womans heart is made glad with
tender motherly feeling, and she partici-
pates in the love and affection which God
has given to his daughters as their privi-
lege and right.
	What is hoarded wealth compared to
home enjoyments? Nothing. Men should
be protectors of virtue, but alas! Father,
they make it a trophy of victory, the dis-
honor of my fair sisters the world over.

[Column 3]
Where is my sisters resort for redress?
Where the cover for their shame, but their
hopes of an early grave? Our noble sires
look calmly on the sinking thousands of the
fair daughters of America, and make no ef-
fort to redeem the land from the terrible
curse of prostitution. It cannot be possi-
ble they will license it.
	In Utah, dear father, mothers are con-
tent to raise noble sons and da[-]ghters, they
have no desire to destroy life transmitted
to offspring.
	And, dear father, if it would not be out
of place I would like to whisper to our no-
ble lawgivers, (not forgetting you my dear
father) would it not be good economy to
hold a place of kind and warm-hearted af-
fection in the hearts of a hundred thousand
brave mountain boys, with strong hands,
clear minds and pure blood, in case of a
foreign invasion. Rome fell, Babylon is
not, and who knows what may transpire.
	We have done like our legislature here
this winter, we came here and cost the
country nothing, and sustained ourselves,
to open the way for the telegraph poles, and
iron rails to reach from ocean to ocean.
What would it have cost this nation to have
subdued the sterility of the soil, and fed
the Indians? But we care not for the tons of
flour and beef, though we still mourn for
the many that have fallen by the Indians
treacherous hands going through these
canyons for wood, building mills etc. And
now the government would forbid us tim-
ber, take from us every office of trust, and
want to refuse us a voice in the choosing of
our rulers. I would suggest what a noble
act it would be, for this glorious Republic
to hand down to unborn generations if they
would give to every pioneer that came to
this desolate country a handsome present
of land, that ingrtatitude may not be at-
tached to the men of power in this nation.
	Could the people of this territory be
truly understood there would be nothing but
kind feelings towards them, as a people, in
Washington. As true daughters of Ameri-
ca we cherish naught but kindness to all
good and worthy objects, and ask the pro-
tection of this government for ourselves,
husbands, and children. In no other coun-
try are females so truly respected, and vir-
tue so carefully guarded as in Utah.
	I would add, dear father, I hope you are
not so weary with me, but that we might
have another profitable chat at some future
time, for there is much that has not yet
been told concerning this peculiar people
and their institutions.
			DIANTHA BAKER.
Salt Lake City, March 4th, 1874.


PEOPLE are proud to condemn in others
what they practise in themselves without
scruple, Plutarch tells of a wolf, who, peep-
ing into a hut where a couple of shepherds
were regaling themselves with a joint of
mutton exclaimed, "what a clamor they
would have raised if they had caught me
at such a banquet!"


BE what you are; this is the first step to-
ward becoming better than you are.—J. C.
Hare.


154		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	Grantsville City, Tooele County,
				February 21st 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from Grantsville
would not be amiss, I will try and say a few
words about the Grantsville Relief Society.
We meet twice a month, once in the capacity
of a business or testimony meeting, and once
for sewing when we quilt or sew for the
poor. There are not a great many poor peo-
ple here, but what there is, we assist and
make comfortable as far as we can. In Jan-
uary last, our President, Mrs. Hunter, pro-
posed giving them a good dinner, when the
members of the society responded to the
call, and the poor were blessed with some of
the good things of this life, while those who
had supplied the food were blessed in the
satisfaction of having done a good deed in
ministering to the needy. Our testimony
meetings have been more largely attended
of late, and sometimes one or more of the
brethren meet with us, give us good
counsel and encouragement, and sometimes
assist us with means; and though it is
something new for us to speak in public,
yet we feel to do so in our meetings to the
best of our ability, for we know that by so do-
ing we are not only benefitting those who
hear us, but feel strengthened ourselves;
for it learns us to lean on our Heavenly
Father for help. In arising to speak we
feel our own weakness, and it brings humil-
ity. I know the Lord does bless us in our
meetings and pours out His spirit upon us.
We counsel and advise each other in our
duties to our fellow beings, and the great
work that is before us. Our President Mrs.
M. A. Hunter is certainly the right wo-
man in the right place; and is persevering
in doing good; she is ever ready with assist-
ance and good counsel to bless the needy.
I believe she has the confidence and good
feelings of the people here, and inasmuch
as we carry out the counsel she gives us, I
am sure this Society will prosper.
	Our enemies are very fond of talking of
the women of Utah as being a poor down-
trodden set of women, but I think were
they to visit Utah with an unprejudiced
mind they would alter their opinions.
They would see that the women of Utah
are counseled to improve their minds, study
good books, teach their children the prin-
ciples of salvation, to be industrious, truth-
ful and honest, and serve God with all their
hearts.
	The members of the Retrenchment Asso
ciation are all going to school now, as we
have an excellent teacher from Salt Lake
City to instruct them; and as their time is
so fully occupied, it has been decided to
postpone their meetings till early Spring
when school will be over.
	Praying God to bless and aid you in your
labors, I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
						MARY COOKE.

			HYRUM, MARCH 1st, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Sister Lil-
jenquist, I send you a short report of our
doings since I last wrote you: We meet
every fast day at 2 o'clock, and converse
freely concerning our spiritual and tempor-
al welfare, the necessities of the poor, &c.
	A good spirit seems to prevail among the
sisters and many of them are disposed to
carry out the counsel of President Young.
We have instituted a straw-braiding school,
and are preparing to manufacture our own
hats and bonnets. We have also made elev-
en bed quilts—we also, pursuant to your

[Column 2]
counsel, made a bed-spread and table-cover
for the Fair. We had a very enjoyable par-
ty on the 25th ult. It being leap year, the
sisters bought the tickets, and under the
arrangement of our worthy President, our
party was conducted according to the coun-
sel given in the Deseret News—commencing
at 2 p. m., and at 5 o'clock refreshments
were served; we continued our dancing,
with songs occasionally and a speech from
the Bishop, until 10 o'clock, all feeling first-
rate. Our Hall was very tastefully decor-
ated, by Bro. Hansen, with evergreens, a
large wreath extending around the Hall,
portraits of the First Presidency, several of
the Twelve, our Bishop, and many others,
also the banners of five nationalities. We
also exhibited our specimens of home man-
ufactures, which all seemed to fully appre-
ciate.
	We are always glad to receive the Ex-
ponent, but feel ashamed that there are so
few subscribers in Hyrum. Your agent
here frequently appeals to the sisters for
their patronage, but in consequence of the
scarcity of money, they are unable to take
more at present.
					Yours Respectfully,
						N. M. NEILSEN.

		WILLARD CITY, March 2, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Willard is in a pros-
perous condition; we meet once in two
weeks; the sisters are united, and are ever
willing to respond to any call that is made
by our President, Mrs. Mary Ann Hublard.
On Saturday, Feb. 26th, the sisters had a
social party and picnic. Free tickets were
given to the aged widows. We assembled
at two o'clock in the afternoon and dis-
missed at ten in the evening; the brethren
and sisters enjoyed themselves in the dance
and harmony and good feelings prevailed.
In the afternoon Sister Abbott read a vision
entitled "a hundred years hence," which
was listened to with great attention. Truly
the Spirit of the Lord was with us, and we
felt to thank him for the enjoyment we had
in each others' society.
	With sorrow for her loss, I send you the
report of the death of our beloved sister,
Ellen Chatterly Wood. She was born in
Lancashire, England, June 10, 1812. Bap-
tized in 1840, and emigrated to St. Louis
in 1850. Came to the valley in Oct. 1851.
Married to John P. Wood Nov. 29th 1851.
Died Jan. 14th, 1876, aged 63 years, 7
months and 28 days. She was sick about
one month with typhoid fever. She was
First Counselor in our Relief Society to Sis-
ter Hubbard. She died firm in the faith,
and was highly respected by a large circle
of friends and acquaintances.
		With respect, your sister
						in the gospel,
				HANNAH COOK, Secretary.

			CLIFTON, ONEIDA CO., IDAHO;
							March 3, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT;
	I thought I would send you a few items
pertaining to us as a Relief Society, know-
ing the interest you take in our welfare.
We held our re-organization meeting on the
17th of Oct., 1875, and the following sisters
were nominated as officers: Mrs. Jane M.
Howell, President; Mrs. Lucretia M. Marler
and Mrs Elizabeth Howell, Counselors; Mrs.
Kittie Dixon, Treasurer; Mrs. Jane Smith,
Secretary, and Mrs. Martha Rasicot Assist-

[Column 3]
ant Secretary; Mrs Mary Thomas President
of teachers, Mrs. Sarah Howell, Amelia
Dixon, Kitty Dixon, Lydia A. Howell,
Sarah A. Larsen, teachers; and all the mem-
bers feel as one with the officers in doing
their duty and in sustaining righteousness
among us; we are quite a way north up here
in Idaho, but still we are one with all Israel,
and feel to be one with the Saints and those
who intend to do what is right.
	Ever feeling desirous for the welfare of
Zion, and the promotion of truth;
			We remain your sisters,
		JANE SMITH, Secretary
		MARTHA RASICOT, Ass't Sec.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Feeling an interest in your paper and al-
so wishing you to know what we the mem-
bers of the Young Ladies Retrenchment As-
sociation are doing in Beaver, I with pleas-
ure address you at this time.
	The Retrenchment Association was re-
organized on the 27th of Nov., 1875, with
J. P. Murdock Farnsworth President, and
Harriet S. Shepherd, Alzina E. Skinner,
Celia E. Hunt, Melissa B. White, Frances
L. Harris and Agnes Curfew her Counsel-
ors, also Eliza E. Parkinson Secretary, and
Alice M. Tyler Assistant Secretary. The
meetings are well attended and a good
spirit manifested. We had a Leap Year
Retrenchment Picnic Party on the 15 inst.,
which opened at 2 o'clock p. m. and contin-
ued until ten at night; we allowed no round
dancing at said party. We had an original
opening address by the President, and se-
lect readings, essays, recitations, songs etc.
by the members which were well executed,
and altogether we had a very enjoyable
time.
	All the members of our Association seem
to feel happy as well as willing to give their
influence and might in the good work of re-
form, as regards keeping late hours and
round dancing etc. which have been prac-
ticed to so great an extent in our ball rooms
for so many years, but which are neverthe-
less injurious in their tendency, as well as
demoralizing in their influence. We, the
whole Association, are proud to be recog-
nized as members of so praiseworthy a so-
ciety, proud of our religious institutions,
for as all know they embrace everything
which will bless and ennoble woman and
man on earth and prepare them for a grand-
er and happier state of existence.
	With sincere feelings and the best of
wishes for your future success, I remain
most respectfully,
				ELIZA E. PARKINSON,
							Secretary.
	Beaver Feb. 23rd 1876.

	SUGAR HOUSE WARD SALT LAKE Co.
						March 3rd, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I enclose you a brief report of a meeting
of the Relief society of this ward, held
March 1st 1876, at the residence of Mr. Hy-
rum P. Trim. President Mrs. Sarah P. Gib-
son presiding.
	After singing and prayer the financial re-
port for the year 1875 was read. Much
good counsel was given, the sisters all feel-
ing desirous to do right and use their influ-
ence to help build up the Kingdom of God
on the earth.
	Donations for the year 1875; for Society
$48,53. Donated for the erection of a
house for the society, $584,20.
	With kind regards for the success of the
EXPONENT. I am yours affectionately,
				SARAH E. WHEELER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	155


"GROWING OLD."

I have watched the radiant coming
	Of the sun's unfettered rays,
Which with rich and glad effulgence
	Bathed the loveliest of days;
And at eve I saw their splendor
	Melting calmly into gold,
And I thought that nature's beauty
	Faded not in "growing old."

But a spectacle more touching
	Than the tints of eve impart,
Is the pleasant, peaceful twilight
	Of a manly, noble heart—
When the lofty aims of early days
	Their deeds of good have told,
And silver hairs life's sunset crown,
	Tell them of "growing old."

The spring is beautiful, indeed,
	With balmy air and showers,
The glad return of singing birds,
	The budding fruit and flowers;
But not until the roses fade,
	The leaves are changed to gold;
And the richest fruits of all the year
	Come when 'tis "growing old."

So when the flowers of youth are gone,
	And life's September's come,
If still there's sunshine in the heart
	There need be nought of gloom.
The retrospect of days well spent,
	And gifts improved tenfold,
Well may that heart be filled with peace,
	Happy in "growing old."
—Washington Sunday Herald.


[Column 1]
	EFFECTS OF SCENERY ON CHAR-
				ACTER.

WRITTEN FOR AND READ AT MISS. M. E.
COOK'S SCHOOL EXHIBITION, Feb. 26th '76.

	Any one who observes carefully the out-
ward impressions, which act upon individ-
uals, cannot but be aware of the marked in-
fluence which natural scenery exerts in
forming characteristics, and distinguishing
traits of individual nature. The stupendous
mountains, the beautiful landscape, the
charming lakes, and smooth wide spread-
ing plains all make their instinctive im-
pressions upon the mind, and direct the
thoughts through certain intricate channels,
of a nature and bearing assimilating to the
peculiar phase of life with which they
come in contact.
	Who that has ever looked upon the grand-
eur and sublimity of Niagara, stood in si-
lence and awe, and watched the foaming
waters as they flow ruthlessly over the aw-
ful precipice; the roaring and thundering of
the rapids, their green and purple waves
tumbling and whirling into frothy white,
could ever forget the impressions made at
the moment, and stamped irrevocably up-
on the mind.
	A season spent 'mid the romantic haunts
of nature upon the banks of the Hudson,
with its enchanting scenery, its beautiful
and artistic villas; or on the banks of the
world renowned Rhine, with its picturesque
cottages, interspersed with ancient ruins of
fortresses and castles, is not only an advan-
tage for the time, but the thoughts which
it originates, when recalled, purify and ele-
vate the mind and intuitively impress one's
life with lasting good.
	The simple Swiss peasant dwelling among
the snow-capped mountains, is, seemingly,
brought nearer to his God, by assimilation
to the heights by which he is surrounded.
The rugged life he leads, by contrast makes
the peace he enjoys so much the more pow-
erful, as the coming home at sunset, which
is the more appreciated, because of the
weary traveling required to reach it.
	Italy the land of poetry and song, with
its azure skies, its calm and placid lakes, its
famous and celebrated cities and villages,

[Column 2]
with their crumbling and tottering towers,
palaces and amphitheatres, gave to the
world a Raphael whose genius will live for-
ever, whose memory is immortal, whose
fame is imperishable.
	Germany, with its grandeur and magnifi-
cence of scenery, its beautiful winding riv-
ers upon whose banks many classical le-
gends originated, fostered and reared a
Humboldt who has made the world his
debtor by his discoveries, his explorations
and his scientific knowledge.
	Scotland whose wild and picturesque
scenery is celebrated in history and poetry,
gave to us a Burns, who possessed genius
peculiarly characteristic of his surroundings;
almost destitute of culture, living in a clay-
built hut, his mind conversant only with
the weird and fanciful imageries of Nature,
associated with its beautiful realities, he
blended his poems in unison with that of
his country, and through this channel to the
hearts of her people.
	Tennyson living at Somersby with its
quiet beauty seems to have been differently
affected for he often wrote in a weird and
imaginative strain, as his "Dying Swan"
and "Claribel," which are based upon shad-
ow; but, withal, he also has the power to
delineate real every day life which we see
in the "May Queen" and "Millers Daugh-
ter."
	In many of the poems of Elizabeth Brown-
ing we perceive the influence of English
life, under which she won her laurels; but
in beautiful Florence, under the soft azure
skies of classic Italy, were many of her best
productions drawn out; the land of genius
and inspiration, which ever seems to be-
stow additional honors upon those who have
already merited some.
	Willis on the banks of the Hudson;—is it
any wonder that he could pour forth such
sweet and touching words, living 'mid the
associations of "Idle Wild?" There he
could withdraw, and resting in the shadow
of a deep ravine, environed with trees
through whose clustering leaves the golden
sunshine shimmered like angel messengers
of light, breathing to him thoughts of beau-
ty, which he clothed in words to communi-
cate to us.
	Far famed Greece! Who shall say that
the grandeur and magnificence of her scen-
ery, the invigorating and bracing air of her
mountains, under whose shadow were reared
the world renowned warriors of history,
had no influence on the character of those
to whom she gave birth? Or that the beau-
tiful daughter of the sea, had no more
power to produce great men than the desert
wilds of Africa?
	Education and culture combined and har-
monizing with the scenery of nature pro-
duce still more powerful influences; and in
our enlightened country, every person has
at least the opportunity of so far improving,
as to be able to view nature through "Eyes
of Wisdom."
							A PUPIL.
[handwritten] Annie Wells


SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 17th 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have just been reading a piece entitled
"Affectation" in your most excellent and
instructive paper, which set me to thinking
and I felt I must commit some of my
thoughts to paper and send them to you.
	I do so enjoy your paper, and my only
regret is that I have not before appreciated
and taken it. I think every Latter-day
Saint should take the EXPONENT; it should
be read and studied more, instead of the
trashy papers which come from the outside


world. I have many times been asked by
Gentiles whom I have met, about my relig-
ion, and when they have brought up argu-
ments against our belief and practices, I
have not been able to refute them. But I
am now beginning to realize how necessary
it is, that our young people—young girls as
well as young men, for, if we are not called
upon to go on missions to foreign lands, we
have many opportunities for vindicating
the tenets of our church—how necessary it
is, I say, that we should study the principles
and doctrines in which we believe, and in-
stead of being so anxious to read the last
new novel, we should be enriching our
minds, and storing up useful knowledge for
the future time when we are called upon to
take the places of our older sisters who are
now at the head of our societies. And be-
sides we who are, and those who will some
time be the mothers of sons; can we teach
them aright; Can we instill good princi-
ples into their young minds; and bring
them up in such a manner that they will be
able to take their part in helping to bear off
the kingdom, when those who are now at
the head shall have passed behind the vail?
I am but a young mother, but I often think
that if I do not exert every nerve, and
watch and pray always, I cannot fulfill my
part, and when my children are grown, if
they are not worthy, there will be no place
for them in the Church of our Lord, and
they will look back to their childish days
and blame me, their mother, for not im-
planting the Gospel truths into their youth-
ful minds. Therefore, let us young sisters
quit all this light reading and attend our
meetings, where we will receive good in-
structions; let us improve every opportuni-
ty, read and study our Church Books, and
prepare ourselves to be worthy mothers to
the great and noble spirits, who are to come
forth in this last day and generation.
							LOUVINA.


For the EXPONENT.
		CONGRESS AND POLYGAMY.

	Since Congress has been working so hard
to do something towards abolishing polyg-
amy, it has caused me to reflect, and I think
if they knew that it only tended to strength-
en our faith, make us more zealous, and
bind us more closely together, instead of
feeling to give it up, they would surely
adopt some other method. But it is not for
polygamy alone that they hate us; when the
church was first organized they persecuted
us just as bitterly, even mobbing and ston-
ing the Elders who attempted to preach.
Their cry was then, "you believe in new
revelation;" but the words of our Savior to
his deciples fully explains it. "If ye were
of the world the world would love you &c."
	I do not feel one par[---] of anxiety as to
the result, for I think the Lord is able to
fight his own battles, and we need only be
true to ourselves and religion as Latter-day
Saints. It is the Lord and Congress for it.
	The Sisters of our Relief Society are very
busy just now making a carpet for our new
Tabernacle. It is quite an undertaking, as
it requires nearly four hundred yards, but
we have united our efforts and think we
can accomplish it by March. The Temple
looks beautiful in its pure white, at first the
plastering did not improve its appearance,
but it does now that it is finished, it will
look so cool in the summer. We have warm
delightful weather and dusty streets.
	Lest I weary you I will conclude by wish-
ing you continued success.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
							E. BENTLEY.
	ST. GEORGE, Feb. 21st, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	}Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
	UTAH AND WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	We have often heard the remark recently
that women thought they were going to revo-
lutionize society. Is there not an imperative
need of some powerful revolutionizing ele-
ment to renovate modern society? Who has
the audacity to say no? Every day there are
sickening reports of wickedness in high places,
of dishonest business transactions, of corrupt
practices. The prevailing fashions and cus-
toms of society among those who hold lofty
positions, and their individual anxiety for os-
tentatious display is calculated to engender
dishonesty and vice. They must live in a cer-
tain style, must appear abroad in suitable ap-
pointments, their wine, cigars, horses etc.
must be in accordance with their position, and
if their income is meagre, either the national
treasury must suffer or other dishonest means
or practices be resorted to. Can this last al-
ways? Will there not come a financial as well
as political crisis, unless some great revolution
transpires? If honest men possessing brains
and a moderate education are willing to be
governed by those destitute of honor and integ-
rity, it would seem women are not. Women
in the past, were not allowed to have any voice
in matters pertaining to the general welfare;
therefore they allowed men not only to make
their laws but to do their thinking for them.
But thanks to a broader education of heart and
brain, to a few brave women and some liberal-
minded men; one great radical change has been
affected in this respect, and intelligent educa-
ted women claim the God-given privilege of
doing their own thinking. If there are wo-
men who shrink from coming forward and
claiming the right of citizenship, it is only the
fault of long-continued custom and the inher-
ited prejudices imbibed from their ancestors,
and with which some are so thoroughly im-
bued that it will take time to eradicate it.
Could they become convinced of the great
good possible to be attained by universal Wo-
man's Suffrage, how gladly would they come
to the rescue. Many of the terrible evils
that now pervade society would be moderated
to a wonderful degree, if women could assist
in making and enforcing the laws. Men
guilty of heinous crimes against moral de-
cency would not walk boldly forth among the
pure and virtuous, if women were allowed a
voice in their judgment. They too would
share in the ignominy and disgrace of their
victims. Their sins would find them out.
	Would there have been such a disgraceful of-
fense against order and good behavior at the
Republican convention in this city last week
if women had formed part of that body? Em-
phatically no! They could not have defied
the laws of good breeding as they did, had

[Column 2]
there been as there should be at all conventions
for the public weal, ladies present.
	What do those men who sat in that august
assembly know of the wants of the people of
Utah? How are they representatives of the
people? What do they know of the rights or
wrongs of this community? How long have
they been here, and for what object did they
come? To regenerate the people of Utah? So
report says. "God save the mark!" Regenera-
tors who cannot even treat each other with
common courtesy in a public convention!
	The conventions of women differ entirely in
tone and character from this.
	We should like to ask some of these "honora-
ble gentlemen" what they know about the set-
tlement of this Territory. If they would like
to settle a desert, and then be invaded by dis-
interested persons, who would usurp their
rights, seek to destroy the institutions they
had sought for years, with time and capital, to
establish, endured privations, toil and untold
sufferings, to found a system by which they
and their children might be benefitted, and
their condition improved.
	There are women in Utah before whose elo-
quence these would-be delegates would stand
appalled were they to tell them of their suffer-
ings when driven into the wilderness. And
now they would rob them of their dearly
bought freedom, political, social, and religious
right. Let such men beware. They cannot
do it with impunity. There is another side to
this question, and there are women who know
how to defend it. "Vengeance is mine, saith
the Lord, and I will repay."
	And here we would suggest that many thanks
are due from the women of this Territory to
those brave and valiant ladies who so faithful-
ly plead the cause of Woman Suffrage for Utah,
in the halls of the National Capitol.
	We know whereof we speak. We came to
this country when it was a barren wilderness;
having the terrors of the desert, the Indians,
buffaloes, and wolves to encounter. Shame
on the men who would seek to deprive a people
of the rights they have so dearly bought. The
subject is exhaustless.
	Even supposing the people held erroneous
religious views, they are entitled to the privil-
ege of citizenship by every right of humanity.
	We have no hesitation in saying there is a
future for Utah and her people of which this
nation will yet be proud.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SEVERAL VALUABLE communications are
laid over until next issue for want of space,
also items of home affairs worthy of note.

	DIED IN the 20th Ward of Salt Lake City,
of disease of the heart and dropsy, Petrea Elis-
ebeth Mattea Madsen Leonard. Born in Den-
mark March 14th 1820. Baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
—1854. Emigrated to Utah in 1855—Mar-
ried to Bradford Leonard Feb. 1858, died in
Salt Lake City on the 16th of Feb. 1876.
	Deceased leaves a daughter, brother and sis-
ter to mourn her loss, but they rejoice that she
endured faithful through her many trials in
life, and died in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion.

	DIED AT Pine Canyon Tooele Co.,. January
23rd 1875, of inflammation of the stomach Mar-
tha S. Smith, daughter of Moses and Isabella
Martin and wife of Adam G. Smith. Deceased
was born in Alton, Madison Co., Illinois, Aug.
20, 1852. She was a kind mother, a loving sister;
an affectionate daughter, and an amiable wife.


She leaves a husband and one child; she was
one of the first in the ward to go and be re-
baptized, and was a faithful member of the
Retrenchment Society and filled the office of
Treasurer. Her last words, after she had call-
ed her husband, father and mother, brothers
and sisters together and kissed them, were for
them not to grieve for she was going just a 
little before them; she then asked for her little
boy, kissed him and breathed her last, just as
if she had been going to sleep.

	WE INVITE the attention of our readers to
the new advertisement of our artist friend C.
R. Savage. His new gallery is without doubt
the finest in the Rocky Mountain region—
(It is an institution springing from his
own individual energy, employing in all
seven persons besides himself, four gentle-
men and three lladies. The details of photo-
graphy have no stronger devotees than the
attachees of his establishment; some are busy
printing the photographs by the solar ray, oth-
ers are deftly putting on the finishing touches.)
His views are scattered all over the globe, and
are highly spoken of as artistic productions.
In looking at a large show case on the ground
floor, we thought they were excellent; the ton-
ing, lighting and posing compare very favora-
bly with the best imported specimens. In fact,
they are hard to beat. In connection with, and
forming a part of the business, is the manufac-
ture of picture frames, presided over by Os-
borne Angell. Piles of molding in all styles,
await his saw and plane. The operating room
has for its presiding genius N. Howarth, Esq.,
patience must be observed by a photogroph
operator, and in this he excells. The waiting
room is in charge of Miss Lis[-]dor Williams.
In fact everything has been done to render thegallery first-class in all its appointments. Mr.
S. assures us that new attractions will be added
as fast as possible. We are proud to point to
the fact that in the matter of art, Utah is not
behind any of the Territories. Our citizens
cannot do better than visit the gallery and see
if our conclusions are not well founded. We
wish him, and all others who seek to improve,
abu[--]dant success.


A TALK WITH THE GIRLS.

MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENDS:
	Wishing to have a little chat with you, or
rather to make a few remarks, which I hope
will be of some benefit, I will do so through
the columns of the EXPONENT. If this valua-
ble paper is as universally read by the ladies of
this community as it deserves, I have no doubt
but the few lines I may write, will receive
some little attention, and I h[-]mbly trust they
will answer the purpose for which they were
written.
	I wish to speak of facts as they exist, and try
and convince, some of you at least, of the folly
of acting as many of our girls do.
	Now girls you mus'n't take offence at any-
thing I may say, as it is but a short time since
I was a young girl myself, and I am still a
young woman; nevertheless I feel better
able to understand, and regret the follies of
girlhood, than I did a few years ago.
	Oh, how vain the regrets which we feel when
we arrive at an age of more mature judgment,
for the misspent hours, for the opportunities of
doing good to others, and of storing our minds
with useful knowledge, against the wintry
time of age, which some of us have almost en-
tirely neglected. Though we are apt to be
guilty, all through life, of spending our lives
in useless regrets, instead of profiting by past
experience and improving the present.


[COLUMN 1]

	Now my young friends is the time for action,
let us never put off till to-morrow, what should
be done to-day; let us not neglect to speak a
cheering word, or perform an act of kindness
when opportunity affords, for if we neglect it
to-day, we will not perceive it so easily to-
morrow, for as our school books tell us, "Pro-
crastination is the thief of time." Let me ad-
vise you, instead of going to from one to six
dances in a week, to spend the time thus em-
ployed in attending evening schools, lectures,
etc., or in some way that will tend to make you
useful members of society, and which will pre-
pare you to fill with honor the positions of
wives and mothers; as these are, when properly
understood, and appreciated and lived up to,
the highest and most glorious to which we can
attain in social position, in this world.
	These are subjects, which as girls, we treat
far too lightly, we do not bestow upon them
the sober thought and reflection which we
should Just think girls, there are, no doubt
scores of women in the world who would, could
they understand it, willingly sacrifice wealth
and station for the privilege which we, all of us
enjoy, if we live for it, namely to become the
honored and beloved wife, of an honorable, vir-
tuous, and affectionate man.
	I do not wish you to understand that I advo-
cate the principle of putting "old heads on
young shoulders." I firmly believe that recre-
ation and enjoyment are necessary to the
young, and that if they are so restricted that
they have no means of enjoying themselves
and satisfying the natural craving for amuse-
ment, while under the control of parents or
guardians, they, in many cases, run to the ex-
treme when they have the opportunity. But
I do not believe there are many of our parents
who use undue strictness with their children;
though we may feel at the time that we do not
have the liberty that we should, or that some
of our friends have, we will yet feel to thank
them for their watchful care, and good advice.
Remember, girls, the old and true saying, "as
the twig is bent, so the tree inclineth," and if
we are careful observers of human nature, we
must see proofs of this every day. Childhood
and youth are the periods when our characters
are formed; how careful should we then be in
the forming of them; we should avoid all com-
pany which will not have a tendency to ele-
vate and refine our minds, and purify our ideas,
unless we can exert an influence over them for
good, and bring them up to a higher standard
instead of ourselves declining to a lower. How
many of you sensible girls, after sober reflect-
ion, would wish to imitate those foolish girls
who think, to be seen, they must constantly be
heard, who push themselves forward to attract
the attention of the opposite sex. I would say
to them that it is not always the gayest flower
which is most prized; and most of the admira-
tion you do receive is only momentary, and
seldom from those possessing good taste and
sound judgment. It is the real virtues that
girls possess which gain the confidence and
esteem of good men; and those not attracted
by a modest, retiring nature, a sweet disposi-
tion and good moral character, are not worth
having.
	Again I would say, do not seek enjoyment
at the expense or injury of others, nor spend
all your precious time in seeking after that
which will not profit you, either now or in af-
ter years. Do not be in too great a hurry to
get married; do not take any one who offers
himself because he may promise all sorts of im-
possible things—offering you his eternal and
undying affection, when perhaps he is not ca-
pable of so pure a sentiment, as true, honora-
ble love. But rather prepare yourselves to ap-

[COLUMN 2]

preciate a good husband when you shall get
one.
	Another very important item, is to get an
understanding of human nature, so as to be
able to distinguish the REAL from the COUNTER-
FEIT, as in outward appearance they sometimes
so nearly resemble each other, that we should
constantly remember that "All is not gold that
glitters."
	Dear Editor, with these remarks, which I
fear are very scattering, I subscribe myself
your friend.
	KATE
St. George, Washington Co.
	Feb. 26th, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	157.


LETTERS.

		COUNCIL BLUFFS, March 4th, 1876.
EDITOR WOMANS EXPONENT:
	The women of Utah and their condition, are
topics that seem to greatly interest the people
East of that point, if I may judge from the
very many questions that are propounded as
soon as it is known that one is from Utah.
The general impression is, that you are abused,
downtrodden and degraded; that the elective
franchise granted you, was only a blind to de-
ceive the outside world, and that you are to all
intents and purposes slaves. I have taken
great pleasure in defending you and explain-
ing your true position socially, and morally and
really believe I have become more deeply in
love than ever with my subject. The women
of Utah must be known to be appreciated and
I feel satisfied that the time is not far distant
when the downtrodden women of monogamic
Christianity will be proud of the association of
their Mormon sisters.
	You have need only to glance casually at
the Christian world to discover that their sys-
tems are a decided failure, and all attempts by
them at this late day to ameliorate the condi-
tion of humanity signally fail, also, socially,
morally, physically, religiously and politically.
The prospect is gloomy indeed and I am satis-
fied that nothing short of God can grasp the
the evils of the age, and provide the necessary
remedies. But as He is altogether ignored by
them there is a terrible future and that too
not very far off.
	Let the women of Utah arouse themselves,
lay aside all follies, pride and vanity, and sanct-
ify themselves before God, to prepare to
stand in their place, to receive the thousands
of their own sex, who will yet come and be
willing to accept the salvation that these de-
spised people have to offer, for if the power to
save is not with the Latter-day Saints, it is 
not on earth.
							J. E. T.


SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 28th 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:

	As I am a little girl I know that I cannot in-
struct anybody and yet I want to tell what I
am thankful for, and what we all ought to be
grateful for.  In the first place we should be
thankful for having a Heavenly Father who
has given us life and placed us here on earth to
gain an exaltation for ourselves, and to have
the privilege of having the Gospel preached to
us by the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and of reading holy
books, and how Christ came on this earth
teaching unto the multitudes by pa[-]ables and 
healing all manner of sickness.
	And we should be thankful that we can
serve God, and that he has given us good par-
ents, food to eat, water to drink, and clothes
to wear; and that we have trials and tribula-


tions in this world, so we can gain our crown
in the next world if we are worthy of it; and
that we can build temples unto the Lord, and
can be baptized for the remission of our sins,
that we can have oil to heal the sick, in
faith, and holy brethren to administer these
ordinances and to teach the principles of the
Gospel and showing us how to gain our
salvation, that we can work for our Savior and
help bring His children into the kingdom of 
heaven, for Christ said "suffer litttle children
to come unto me, for such is the kingdom of
Heaven."
	We ought to appreciate our nice homes and 
comfortable beds to sleep in, and fires to warm
us; and we ought to be thankful that if we
pray for faith we may have it, and believe that
we will have it, so that if we are sick and the
Elders lay their hands upon our heads we will
be healed, but without faith we could not get
well. And we should be grateful that we have
the sun to give us light and warmth by day,
and the stars and moon to give light by night,
and herbs, and fruits, and plants for our use;
that He has given us rain so they might live.
We ought to be grateful for these things and a
great many more. And I hope we all will.
						A LITTLE GIRL.


ORIGINAL EQUALITY OF WOMEN.

	A curious craniological fact is that the fe-
male skulls from the earliest sepultures do
not differ in capacity from the cotemporary
male skulls to the same extent which crania
of the two sexes generally differ from one
another at the present day. It must.
however, be borne in mind that in those
early times there was a greater struggle for
existence, and that the principle of the di-
vision of labor was not carried out to a
large extent, so that the tendencies to a
differentiation in the characteristics of the
two sexes was less marked than in modern
times.—Woman's Journal.


POOR, OLD, AND A WOMAN.

	"Mrs. Margaret Howard, a widow, aged
80, died on her way to St. Peter's Hospital,
yesterday, of neglect and hunger. It is al-
leged that she was turned out of doors by a 
relative in Columbia Street, was refused ad-
mittance to some of her children's houses,
and was turned into the street to die. She
was found lying upon the sidewalk by Of-
ficer O'Brien."
	The above is cut from the Brooklyn items
of the New York Daily Tribune, of the 28th
ult. She was guilty of three great offences
—she was poor, old, and a woman.—Wo-
man's Journal.


Stewed Oysters.—Strain off all the oyster li-
quor and then add half as much water as you have
oysters. Add a saltspoonful of salt, for each pint
of oysters, and half as much pepper; and when
that begins to simmer; add half a teacupful of
milk for each pint of oysters. When the edges
being to ruffle add some butter, and do not let
them stand but serve immediately. Oysters should
not simmer any more than five minutes on the
whole. When cooked too long, they become hard,
dark and tasteless.


Fried Oysters.—Lay them on a cloth to absorb
the liquor; then dip first in beaten egg and after-
ward in powdered cracker, and fry in hot lard or
butter to a light brown. If fresh lard is used,
put in a little salt. Cook quickly in very hot fat,
or they will absorb too much grease.


158		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TENNYSON'S SUMMER HOME.

	I sat upon a projecting rock on the Isle of
Tintagel, hundreds of feet above the sea,
which was rolling in upon the beach below
with wayward indolence. Close by rose the
tall cliffs of the Cornish coast, with their 
rock-ribbed sides.
	The ruins of the castle, with its decayed
and tottering stones, raise again, in imagin-
tion, in all of its barbaric splendor; tower
and battlements glistened with the spears
of armed men; the rattling of arms and 
tramp of steeds were heard coming down
the ravine—a goodly company of brave
knights and fair ladies—at their head, he,
Authur, their king, and riding by his side,
on her snow white palfrey, the sweet but
faithless Guinevere, and behind them, fore-
most among the train, Lancelot. With
merry laughter and many a courtly jest,
they passed over the bridge (which now the
waves of the Atlantic have swept away,
leaving but a few rough stones) into the
castle.
	My day dream was suddenly interrupted
by discovering a stranger near me.
	I arose from my seat and approached him.
It was one of those wild solitudes, far away
from any human habitation, where you
would always forget the formalities of life,
and address any stranger you might hap-
pen to meet. Before I reached him, I
knew, although I had never looked upon
his face before, that I stood in the presence
of the great magician who had peopled the
ruins and the solitude around me with
bright visions.
	It was the poet Tennyson; the face and
figure that I had so often seen pictured
could not be mistaken. Like most men of
mark he had a striking appearance, and
wherever you met him, you would at once
set him down as a man of no ordinary char-
acter; tall, but looking taller than he really
was on account of his spare frame; a sallow
complexion, with keen dark eyes and shag-
gy eyebrows, unshaven, with a long beard
and mustache turning iron gray, and long
hair of the same color falling to his shoul-
ders, he had generally an unkempt appear-
ance; his dress did not appear to have been
made by a fashionable tailor, and it looked
as if some years had elapsed since it was
first worn; in his mouth he had a short
black pipe, which he was smoking. Not
the kind of man the reader would imagine
wrote "Come into the Garden, Maud."
	I first accosted him, saying:—
	"I believe I have the honor of speaking
to Mr. Tennyson?"
	In reply he stiffly bowed his head, some-
what surlily, I thought.
	I told him who I was, and that I had come
to Tintagel to look upon the scenes he had
made so familiar to readers of English liter-
ature. He commenced asking me ques-
tions, mostly concerning the United States,
its literature, and the English authors that
were mostly read there. He expressed a
great admiration for Longfellow, whom he
knew personally. He then pointed out var-
ious objects of interest that had escaped my
notice among the ruins of the castle, on the
island and the shore, among others King
Arthur's drinking cup, a huge piece of rock
hollowed out into the shape of a bowl, and
large enough to hold the contents of a bar-
rel; and a small chapel, the foundation of
which can be traced, and in which the alter
stone, a solid piece of hewn rock, still re-
mains perfect.
	The island is but a few hundred yards in
diameter. It is almost circular, and rises
out of the sea, with abrupt, precipitious
sides, at least two hundred feet high. On

[Column 2]
the nearest point of the mainland a consid-
erable portion of the ruins of the castle are
to be found. The poet stated that he be-
lieved that the island had been originally
connected with the mainland by a nar-
row isthmus that the sea had washed away,
or else that a bridge had been built over,
which had shared the same fate. There
were traces of masonry on both sides, and
at low tide you can still walk across. We
walked up the ravine which leads down to
the sea, into the high lane, and he pointed
out to me the supposed field of Camelot,
the scene of the King's last struggle.
	"There," said he, "is a panorama. Every
spot on which your eye rests has some histori-
cal interest." It had none other, for the coun-
try was as bleak and wild as can be imag-
ined, with scarcely any vegetation. Away
north was Launceston, to whose abbey the 
faithless Guinevere retired and became its
Lady Abbess. A few miles away was the
little town of Camelford (the Camelot), and
yonder a small lake that might have served
for the burial place of "Excalibar."
	We walked over to the small village of
Tintagel, a dreary looking place of one
street, containg a few houses of the poorer
class, a small inn and one handsome house,
which was the summer residence of Mr.
Scott, then the editor of the Saturday Re-
view. The place could have but two
charms—its historic associations and its sol-
itude. Both are evidently attractions to
the poet laureate, for he frequently spends
weeks at the place, roaming around the
wild coast scenery alone, dreaming of the
heroes that once fought and did deeds of
daring upon its now desolate shores, and
framing other poetic stories to be added to
the Idyls of the King.—The North.


[For the EXPONENT.
			PERSEVERANCE.

	Perseverance is a subject of vital import-
ance to every thinking mind, there is noth-
ing in fact, could be accomplished success-
fully without it. No mercantile business
could succeed without this principle and ex-
actness.
	The lad who is apprenticed to learn a
useful trade would fail without it, but if he
perseveres and accomplishes the purpose his
parents or guardians have desired, and he
becomes complete master of his trade or
profession his energy and perseverance urg-
es him onward and he aims to excel in
whatever he does. The student who wish-
es to acquire a knowledge of any study or
to learn foreign languages so that he may
speak with fluency, or write them correctly,
must exercise his faculties or fail to accom-
plish that which he desires. It gives a force
and energy to every action of our lives
whether for good or evil.
	Without this great principle our beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith would have failed to
accomplish his mission in bringing forth the
record of the ancient inhabitants of this
continent, and establishing the Kingdom of
God upon the earth, but he persevered even
unto death, and succeeded in accomplishing
the work he was destined to perform.
	Were it not for this great and grand at-
tribute the apostles would have failed to
plant the principles of truth, and open the
door of the Kingdom of God in our own
native land and in the different nations of
the earth, but they persevered with all their
might, mind and strength, both by day and
by night to accomplish the work the Lord
required at their hands, and therefore they
succeeded; and we are this day witnesses to
this great fact, as also are thousands now


rejoicing in the light of the gospel and the
blessings of the Holy Priesthood.
	Through perseverance the pioneers of this
country overcame every difficulty, subdued
the sterility of the country and the Lord
has smiled upon His people, and crowned
the persevering labors of His servants with
success, in causing the earth to bring forth
in rich abundance, and thus are we sustain-
ed.
	Without perseverance we cannot make
our Centennial Territorial Fair a success;
and it should be our earnest desire, in fact
it is a duty incumbent on each of us to take
a lively interest in assisting to produce
something that will add to its advancement;
we are all endowed with talents that with-
out perseverance would lay dormant.
	Without this faculty, and the spirit of
energy we can never attain celestial glory
and exaltation, for the Scriptures tell us that
they who overcome will inherit these bless-
ings; and if we persevere every day of our
lives to overcome our sins and follies, temp-
tations and weaknesses, then we may ulti-
mately be found worthy through the grace
of God, having become sanctified and puri-
fied through obedience to the Gospel of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and become
heirs of salvation through perseverance and
endurance.
					E. J. MATHEWS.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


MISCELLANEOUS

	A GENTLEMEN, who was recently mar-
ried, said to the officiating clergyman (a
confirmed wit) in bad grammer: "I think I
have done wise."—"Yes," replied the oth-
er, undoubtedly you have done wise, or
otherwise!"

	THE MODEL MAID-OF-ALL-WORK.—Her
age is fourteen. Her arms are bare and her
feet slip-shod. Her curls are rarely out of
paper. She sports a clean apron on the Sun-
day, about tea-time. It is a mystery where
she sleeps; some say the kitchen, in one of
the large drawers; and others declare she
has a turn-up bed in the hall clock; but it is
not known for positive whether she goes to
bed at all. She has a wonderful affection
for the cat. Everything that is missed, or
lost, or broken, or not eaten, she gives un-
hesitatingly to him. She is not fond of the
drawing-room, but has a good natured par-
tiality for the garret, who sings funny
songs, and gives her occasionally an order
for the play. She takes her dinner whilst
washing the dishes, and never gets her
breakfast till all the floors are done with the
one tea pot. She tries very hard to answer
five bells at once, and in despair answers
none. She always forgets the mustard, and
prefers blowing the fire with her mouth in-
stead of the bellows. Her hands will not bear
minute inspection; and no wonder, for she
is cleaning boots, or washing, or cooking
dinners all the day long. She carries coals
in a dust-pan, hands bread on a fork, and
wipes plates on her apron. She is abused
by everybody, and never gets a holiday.
She only knows it is Sunday by the lodgers.
stopping in bed later than usual, and hav-
ing twice as many dinners to cook. She is
never allowed to go out, excepting to fetch
beer and tobacco. She hears complaints
without a murmur, and listens to jokes with-
out a smile. She gets six pounds a year, 
and is expected to wait on about twenty
persons, to do the work of five servants, to
love all the children in the house, and to be
honest for the money.


APPELLES.—Alexander went to see his
portrait at Ephesus, painted by Apelles;
but did not commend the piece as it deserv-
ed. A horse was introduced, and neighed
to the horse in the picture as if it were a
living one. "My Prince," said Apelles,
"the horse seems to be a better connoisseur
than yourself."

	ANECDOTE OF FOOTE THE COMEDIAN.—
Foote, traveling in the west of England,
dined one day at an inn. When the cloth
was removed the landlord asked him how
he liked his fare? "I have dined as well as
any man in England," said Foote.—"Ex-
cept Mr. Mayor," cried the landlord.—"I
do not except anybody whatever," said he.
—"But you must," bawled the host. "I
won't."—"You must." At length the strife
ended by the landlord (who was a petty
magistrate) taking Foote before the Mayor,
who observed that it had been customary
in that town for a great number of years al-
ways to except the mayor, and accordingly
fined him a shilling for not conforming to
this ancient custom. Upon this decision
Foote paid the shilling, at the same time ob-
serving that he thought the landlord the
greatest fool in Christendom—Except Mr.
Mayor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	A Ladies' Debating Club has been started
in London......The London University has
resolved in favor of conferring degrees up-
on women......The Sultan of Turkey is build-
ing a mosque, to cost when finished $10,000
......New Jersey has voted $120,000 in all to
the Centennial......Brown paper blankets
are now manufactured extensively in Eng-
land, and used on the beds of the poor......
A paragraph history of the American Rev-
olution will be a Centennial publication by
Robert Brothers of Boston......The second
session of the Congress of Orientalists at
Marseilles will take place from the 4th to
the 10th of Oct. next under the presidency
of M. I. Abbi F. Tonongi......Gladstone and
the Duke Argyle, each have articles in the
March number of the Cotemporary Review.
...50,000 soldiers will go to Cuba to quell the
insurrection.........Russia has incorporated
Khokand among her possessions, General
Scoreloff has been appointed Governor of
the new province, it is named Ferghan......
Accounts of the devastation from the inun-
dations in Hungary are terrible; 12,000 out
of 18,000 inhabitants of Althorer are home-
less......The Cincinnatti Carnival, or Mardi-
Gras Festival, proved a complete success; it
is said to have been finer than any display
in the South.
			PERSONAL.
	Augusta Evans is said to have received
from Carleton the publisher $100,000 in 8
years......Feb. 22nd was the 144th anniver-
sary of the birth of Washington......Lord
Stratford de Radcliffe, 88 years old, has just
written a play called "Alfred the Great at
Athelney"......Madame Neilson is going
the round of Europe; her tour including
Holland, Germany and France; it is said
her voice is declining in beauty and power. 
......Queen Victoria recently sent twenty
brace of pheasants to King's College Hos-
pital and a similar present to other hospitals
......Mme. Rosa Caillag, once a famous con-
tralto singer, has lately been made professor
in the Conservatory of Music at Vienna......
Edward King's sketches of French political
leaders will be published immediately by
Putnam and Sons in their "Brief Biogra-
phies"......C. A. Freeman's "History of the


Norman Conquest" is now about to be pub-
lished......Mrs. Charles Kingsley will soon
publish a memoir of her husband, with
large selections from his correspondence.


THE CULTIVATION OF THE HOME.

	Almost all men have an instinctive re-
spect if not love for the mere words home
and mother, but it rests with women to lift
them up out of the region of simple ab-
straction, vitalize them and render them
significant of all that fulness of peace and
rest and joy and satisfaction which they do
mean to those who have known the blessed
realities of which they are the weak repre-
sentatives. Patience and self-denial are
needed, for few people know what is good
for them morally, any more than they do
physically; but the working out of a plain
duty always pays in the end—pays! that is,
indeed, a poor and unworthy name for it—
it yields infinite satisfaction and comfort,
while merely consulting one's own wishes
and inclinations fail signally and inevitably
to yield even the small return of individual
satisfaction and enjoyment. Women have
no conception of the power for good or for
evil which they hold in their hands, by the
proper growth and cultivation of the home.
	Here the power of the woman, by its ju-
dicious exercise, can indeed in time, if not
at first, become supreme. Lawless instincts
can be checked, order, which is heaven's
first law, encouraged, and an example of
grace, gentleness and refinement set, which
lays the foundation for the finest manners
of the most cultivated people in the world.
Women are natural conservators; men look
to them to formulate and preserve these
domestic and social amenities which beautify
existence and render the neglect of the
world or the kicks and scorns of fortune
more endurable. But they can do more
than this; they can make home-life an edu-
cation for the heart, a purifier of the mind,
at once a solace and a stimulus to the hap-
py participants, as it is the basis of good
government and highest incentive to patri-
otic endeavor. The homes of a people are
an index to the character of a community.
—Chronicle.


For the EXPONENT.
		ENCOURAGFMENT.

	I thought I would say a few words to the
Retrenchment girls about writing to the
EXPONENT. I know that many of them
though they cannot express their feelings
in their meetings could do so on paper. A
great many think they are not capable of
writing for a paper, they think it is above
their abilities. I know that we have in our
Retrenchment Associations girls who have
ideas and sentiments which would benefit
others. It only requires careful thought
and calm reflection, and any girl who loves
her religion and possesses purity of heart,
would at least benefit herself, and improve
mind.
	I saw a piece in the EXPONENT a few
months ago from a little girl ten years old.
I think it is an indication of courage and of
an earnest desire to improve, when one so
young undertakes that which we that are
older feel our incompetency to do; but I
would not be without the Exponent for
anything, and after I have read it I send it
to Scotland, where it is read with great in-
terest and pleasure. May God bless us, and
prosper us in every good wish is the desire
of your sister in the Gospel,
					Sarah McKean.
	S. L. City, Jan. 4th, 1875.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. ANTOINETTE Brown Blackwell is
writing a book called "The Physical Basis of
immortality." It is to be offered to the
Ladies' Department of the Centennial.
	MISS CELIA Elizabeth Harris, of Nebras-
ka, a native of South Bend, Ind., leads the
medical class of Boston University, which
graduated Wednesday, March 1st. 
	EX. EMPRESS EUGENIE lives in a plain
and unpretending manner at Chiselhurst;
the late Emperor's place at table is daily
decked with a bunch of fresh violets.
	MARY NORTON, about 1669, gave the land
on which the old South Church of Boston
stands, "for the erecting of a house for their
assembling themselves together to worship
God and for no other intent, use or purpose
whatever." 
	JENNIE JUNE writes concerning Miss
Alcott that she is not small, as the impres-
sion which her books give, but tall, graceful
and charming in appearance, utterly free
from nonsense, shams and pretences, a quick
shrewd and intelligent observer, and ex-
tremely kind and loving to children, who
in turn adore her.
	MISS LUCY Hale, the oldest inhabitant of
Plymouth, Mass., died on the 5th of Febru-
ary, in the 99th year of her age; she leaves
a brother and sister whose ages are respect-
ively 93 and 95 years. Until within a few
days previous to her death, when she had a
fall, she retained possession of her faculties
to a wonderful degree.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Broiled Ham.—Cut in thin slices and soak fif-
teen minutes in hot water. Pour off this and
soak again as long. Wipe dry and broil over a
quick fire, and then pepper it. Ham that is al-
ready cooked rare is the best for broiling.
	Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb.—Chop three ta-
ble-spoonfuls of green mint, and add a heaping
tablespoonful of sugar, and half a coffee-cup of
vinegar. Stir them while heating, and cool before
using.
	Egg Omelet.—Beat the yolks of six eggs, and
add a cup of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, and
a pinch of pepper. Pour into hot fat, and cook it
till just stiffened. Turn it on a platter brown side
uppermost. Some add minced cooked ham, oth-
ers put in chopped cauliflower or asparagus cooked
and cold.
	Drawn Butter.—Take six tablespoonfuls of but-
ter, half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of
flour or of fine bread crumbs worked into the but-
ter and one tea-cup of hot water. Heat very hot
but do not let it boil. Two hard-boiled and chop-
ped eggs improve it very much. For fish add a
tablespoonful of vinegar and chopped caper or
green nasturtion seeds.
	Salad Dressing.—Mash fine two boiled potatoes
and add a teaspoonful of mustard, two of salt,
four of sweet oil, three of sharp vinegar, and the
yelks of two well boiled eggs rubbed fine. Mix
first the egg and potatoes, add the mustard and
salt, gradually mix in the oil stirring vigorously
the while. Stir in the vinegar last. Melted but-
ter may be used in the place of sweet oil. The
more a salad dressing is stirred the better it will
be.


SENSE shines with a double lustre when
it is set in humanity.
	AN able and yet a humble man is a jewel
worth a kingdom.—William Penn.


160		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRITE TAUNT.

	One of the most plausible excuses that
men make for opposing woman's enfran-
chisement is, that the women themselves
do not want to vote. This is usually sup-
plemented by the assertion that when wo-
men want the ballot they will have it. Now,
while it is true that a large number of
women — a number, however, growing
smaller each year—do not interest them-
selves in anything of a more public nature
than neighborhood gossip, it is also true
that the masses of intelligent, educated wo-
men do desire the ballot and back this de-
sire by reasons of sufficient cogency to en-
title them to a hearing in the councils of
State and nation. Whence come the nu-
merously signed petitions that year after
year go up to the Legislatures of the dif-
ferent States, if women do not care for
citizens' privileges? Whence the letters
that not unfrequently accompany them,
fraught with such a deep and all pervading
interest in the cause of equal rights? The
signers of these petitions, the authors of
these letters, are not lecturers, nor writers,
nor editors; nor yet are they women, as is
often charged, who have a perpetual quarrel
with nature because they are not men.
They belong usually to the middle walks of
life, and are earnest but silent laborers in
humanity's vineyard. But as the coral in-
sect silently and out of sight builds up the
islands of the ocean, so are these quiet
workers building up the public sentiment
that will one day give to woman her right-
ful share in framing the laws that govern
her. 
	Women whose daily toil earns daily
bread; women who labor year after year
with never a dollar they can call their own,
servants in all things but salary; women
who labor in fetters, vainly seeking to ac-
complish that, which were justice done they
could accomplish with ease—these are they 
who work with what strength they have
and wait with what patience they can com-
mand, while men in high places answer
their prayers for redress with contempt,
derision, or indifference, and disregarding
their appeals, say, "when women care for
the ballot they shall have it."
	But despite all opposition, the indications
are constantly showing how steadily the
barriers are giving way which shut women
from a field of usefulness, which, notwith-
standing all that may be urged to the con-
trary, the best, purest and truest women of
the nation long to enter.—New North West.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	In the last number of the Exponent, there ap-
peared under the head of "Hygienic Notes," one
note in particular that interested me much. It
treated of the "Power of the hands." I hope all
mothers will read it, for I am quite certain it is a
great fact. And now I want to give an excellent
remedy for
	Ear-ache.—I remember when I was a little girl
of having the ear-ache very severely one night, and
my mother who was sleeping beside me was awak-
ened with my first cry of pain. She did not get
up and make a fire and dose me with bitter stuffs
for my cold, and bundle my head up in heated
flannel. But she put the bed-clothes which I had
thrown off a little more closely around me, took
both my hands in one of hers, and placing her
other hand, soft and warm, over one side of my
face and one ear, she applied her lips to the other
ear—the one that ached. Taking care to draw
her breath through the nostrils, she emitted it
slowly into my ear. I was soon asleep, forgetful
of all distress. I have often relieved my child of


the same trouble in the same way: I suppose the
warm breath entering the ear has the same effect
to soften the hardened wax, that dropping in warm
oil or glycerine and water has. I believe that of-
ten the simplest and first thought of means, are
the most efficacious and desirable remedies.
										LEAL.


FLOWERS.

	The grandest of heroic deeds are those,
which are performsd within four walls and
in domestic privacy.—Richter.
	THE strength of a nation, is in the intel-
ligent and well-ordered homes of the peo-
ple.—Mrs. Sigourney.
	SOCRATES being asked the way to honest
fame, said "study to be what you wish to
seem."—John Bate.
	IT is when the hour of conflict is over,
that history comes to a right understanding
of the strife, and is ready to exclaim; Lo
God is here, and we knew it now.—Bancroft.


MRS. M. S. BENSON
  Has had 25 years experience as an Accoucher and Her-
  balist. She makes a specialty of Female Comlaints, and
       of Fits.  Office and residence of Morris' corner, one
           block south of the Theatre on the State Road.

					THE FINE ARTS.
           The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
        Gallery, the finest in the West.
           We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
        trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
        ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
        the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
        ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
       prices are put at living rates.	
           We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
        are determined to execl in all we do.
            A full assortment of Day and Sunday School prizes
        kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of al kinds
        on hand.
	      Send your orders to			C. R. SAVAGE,
							Salt Lake City, Utah. 

				Now Receiving, at
				      TEASDEL'S,
      The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
 Flowers, &c.
      Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
			S. P. TEASDEL, Eagles House. 

				 F. AUERBACH & BRO,
                55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
					     - : 0 : -
                     Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
                                 Staple and Fancy
                                    DRY GOODS,
 Milinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
   Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
      and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                            Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
    ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
    the Old Fashioned House. 

			    HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
           Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
            doors below Walker House, and examine our
               goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
                  take pleasure in making to order, such
                        brushes as we have not on hand.
							Wm. H. MILES, Supt. 

				LITTLE & ROUNDY,
                    Wholesale and Retail dealers in
                    Crockery, China and Glassware,
                 	LE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
                                23, MAIN STREET. 

				MITCHELL & JAMES,
                  Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
                                     AGENTS FOR
       RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
                    Pumps Repaired on short notice.
       Orders from the country promptly responded to.
       Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

					MILLINERY.
				     MRS C. E. DYE,
        Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
   for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
     commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
 Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
    Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times. 

					Z. C. M. I. 
                       Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                                   in all kinds of
              DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
                   HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
                     GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                        STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
                  AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c,

				TO THE LADIES! 
			      TAYLOR & CUTLER
  Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
          all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
            GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and a full stock
             of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c, which we
                          are selling very cheaply. 

				 THE KIND OF 
			  BOOTS AND SHOES
		       EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
                       priced articles made by the
        WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCATION,
   At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
   Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
                          S. P. CROMPTON, Supt. 

					LADIES
 If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
           Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
                                  them to the
                  UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
    They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
                          BUTTER and EGGS,
							F. GOSS, Supt. 

			EVERY DESCRIPTION 
				      OF
 		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				    AND
                  GENERAL DRY GOODS.
 Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
             Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.   

			H. DINWOODEY,
       WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
                            FURNITURE!
           SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
                    Feathers, Wall Paper
                                 AND
                    BABY CARRIAGES!
  75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1876.		NO. 21.


For the Exponent.
		CONFERENCE GREETING.

				April, 1876.

Again from North to South, from East to West,
	The Saints of Latter-days in conference meeting,
To praise the Lord, to bless and to be blest,
	Fast congregate, with peaceful, happy greetings.
Friends meet with friends, and cordial hands are shaken
	As one by one, or groups are gathering in;
Now silence! Now sweet strains of music 'waken,
	And lo! the conference services begin.

Why do they gather at this Gospel Feast,
	These thousands, 'neath this spacious dome's broad ceil-
		ing?
Father, Thy gifts and blessings have not ceased—
	And shall Thy children fail in their good feelings?
We come to hear Thy words in plainness spoken,
	That we more faithfully henceforth may live:
If in the past some trusts with Thee were broken,
	Lord, we are penitent, do Thou forgive.

We listen, purpose well, but soon forget—
	Help us to be more watchful and more guarded!
Prolong Thy mercies, we are children yet,
	O! leave us not as faithless ones discarded!
If with vain things our hearts have been encumbered,
	Yet prize we Thy dear words above them all;
If we in car[-]ess ease have slept and slumbered,
	We would awake at Thine enlivening call.

We trust Thy promises and feel secure;
	To follow Christ as our divine Preserver;
Help us all tests and chastenings to endure,
	And to pursue Thy canse with brightening fervor.
With faith and covenants renewed and strengthened,
	We worship, Father, and implore Thy grace;
O! be our follies purged, Thy mercies lengthened,
	Till we may see and know Thee face to face.

Until Thy temples shall o'erspread the land,
	Until the burden of Thy cause is lifted,
Thy cov'nant people working hand to hand,
	And seeing eye to eye, divinely gifted,
Pour out Thy spirit Lord in rich effulgence,
	Quicken our memories and our mind expand,
That as Thy servants speak, through Thine indulgence,
	Thy Saints may hear aright and understand.											LULA.


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
			WOMAN.

	It is woman's privilege to be queen of a
<hy su?h-wpfhi="" mis-="" ‘="" takes,="" and="" by.="" not="" (caluqg="" things="" by="" their="" right="" names.="" wqmep="" often="" take="" shelter="" ip="" .their,="" weakupsp,="" and.="" ppljpvp="" ;it="" ,="" i.,.right,="" 1="" iniwhereas="" ,.if,="" woman="" kx="">mighty realm! at present, mighty only in
minutiae! her subjects are the Lilliputians
of the earth, and their moral stature will be
pigmy, full-grown, or colossal, according as
her laws are wise, judicious and in love.
She controls, or ought to, the elements of
life, the germ of future glory, exaltation,
and the rudiments of angelic life. It is her
province to mould, to train, to nurture, to
support, to feed the precious mind of in-
fancy and youth. What more noble desti-
ny could she desire? Is she not working
for eternity? Can she do this in her own
strength? Certainly not. But she goes to
the Fountain Head of wisdom, asks and re-
ceives. Many of the great ones of the
earth, who have risen to eminence and
power, have fondly and proudly pointed to
their mothers, who, by their judicious train-
ing and management of their infancy and
youth, have sown and brought to perfection
the precious seed which, under God, they
were enabled to cast into their minds,
by which they became great; among a host
of such we may name Napoleon the First,
Lamartine, Bulwer, Eliza Cook, who have
all named their mother before the world,
with all honor. Shall not such instances
urge WOMAN to realize her responsibility

[Column 2]
and the end of her creation? Noble is her
work and mighty her responsibility! Her
first act of government must be SELF. She
has many a secret battle to fight to bring
herself into subjection. The foundation
must be good or it cannot support the super-
structure. The fountain must be pure, or
its streams can never fertilize the young
plants they are intended to invigorate and
renovate. The first lesson she must learn
is humility; the next obedience—if she
desires to conquer she must stoop to do so.
All children should learn these grand fun-
damental principles, but remember humility
and obedience must never degenerate into
apathy and servility, such would render
them obnoxious. True greatness is always
humble and gentle, for it knows its power,
feels its dignity is fully established, and
there is no foolish fear of compromising it.
In good government there must ever be
decision of character; firmness and gentle-
ness united. Let your laws be framed in
love and wisdom, and then do not allow
them to be broken with impunity. There
must be no vacillation or temporizing
about it; make no law that you cannot vig-
orously enforce; let love ever preside, but
mistake not foolish fondness for love; mis-
take not indolence and apathy for meekness;
mistake not negligence in your arrange-
ments for easiness of temper; there is much
that is wrong in woman by such woful mis-
takes, and by not calling things by their
right names. Women often take shelter in
their weakness, and believe it is right,
whereas if woman KNEW HERSELF, her
soul is large enough for all her Maker in-
tended her for, and she was made a help-
meet for man." These words are framed in
the sublime brevity of Holy Writ, but they
form a compendium of woman's position,
woman's duty, and of woman's exaltation.
The woman who really carries out her des-
tiny is indeed a heroine; if she desires great-
ness, she has it—I will prove it. True, her
sphere is in the secluded domestic drama of
life, beyond which her name is generally
unknown; but is he ONLY a hero whose
name resounds through the world as a hero
of battles and bloodshed? In the eye of
the misjudging world it may be so, but
when "the partition wall is broken down"
that shuts out the world from the immortal,
when "the scales fall" from human eyes,
and the veil is removed from human hearts,
then shall many an obscure individual stand
forth as the sterling soldier of Christ, and
many shall be abashed whose proud banner
flaunted over the battle fields of human
glory, but who disdained to fight in the
ranks of the great Captain of their salva-
tion. Is there no heroism in the daily
home struggle of the battle of life? To do
our duty to all around us, in the untiring
efforts to bear upward towards the light of
truth, to keep to the "narrow way," to be
patient, to persevere, to endure, to press on,
and not for the praise of humanity, for often
no eye but God's beholds the struggle, but
because the Spirit's eye is resting on that
glorious promise, "be thou faithful unto
death; and I will give thee a crown of life."
What is heroism, if this is not something of
the definition of it? Then I assume that
every such woman, who so proves herself,

[Column 3]
and those committed to her care is a hero-
ine, her name may be emblazoned on no
earthly scutchion, but I know it is traced
by the recording angel in the archway of
heaven and sealed with the signet ring of 
the Immortal.
					HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sallie Joy White is a contributor to
the Boston Sunday Times, editing a column
under the heading of "Woman's Kingdom."
It savors of a strong mind, a vigorous in-
tellect, and smooth and harmonious adapta-
tion of the author to the subject.
	MISS Susie Dugan, daughter of Mr. T.
H. Dugan, formerly of Boston, took the
prize, the Avery gold medal, for the best
oil painting, at the exhibition of the School
of Design, in San Francisco, of which Mr.
Virgil Williams is professor.
	QUEEN Victoria opened Parliament in
person on Feb. 8th, an event which it is
said has awakened great interest and ex-
citement among her subjects. The Houses
of Parliament were filled with a distinguish-
ed throng. The Queen was attended with
various members of the royal family and
nobility. The Lord Chancellor read the
speech in behalf of the Queen. The impos-
ing ceremony lasted but a few minutes.


INFORMAL PEOPLE.

	Preserve us from unceremonious people—
those men and women who "never stand on
ceremony"—who are always perfectly at
home in other people's houses. Society
has many pests, but few so intolerable as
they. "Free and easy" visitors are most
thoroughly disagreeable. They will inflict
themselves upon you at any time, and ex-
pect always to be cordially welcomed be-
cause they are so free and easy, and so loth
to put anybody to trouble. They will come
before breakfast, or just as you are sitting
down to dinner, and draw up their chairs
quite like one of the family. Early in the
morning they "delight to run in," and they
will come right up to your chamber to save
you the trouble of coming down, and there
they will sit and watch you make your toi-
let, and comment upon how gray your hair
is getting, and wonder if you are not a great
deal stouter, and redder in the face than
you used to be. They will hunt over your
writing-desk for note-paper; bathe their fa-
ces with your cologne water, and scent their
handkerchiefs with the contents of your
choicest perfumery bottle. They are al-
ways ready for luncheon—"you know I'm
too much at home in YOUR house to go hun-
gry, my dear,"—and any stray confection-
ary lying about melts before them as dew
before the sun. They make no scruple of
borrowing your latest magazines and new-
est books; even your wardrobe does not es-
cape their encroachments; and all this inso-
lence is cloaked by such empty remarks as
these: "I never stand on ceremony, but
make myself at home everywhere; so don't
put yourself out to entertain me!" Again
we say preserve us from unceremonious
people.—Smith's Monthly.


162		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		MINERSVILLE, March 6th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have been thinking for some time of
writing to let you know how we are get-
ting along with our Improvement Associa-
tion. We meet together once a week, open 
our meetings with prayer and singing and
bear testimony to the things of the king-
dom. The young ladies of the Society
take great interest in attending these meet-
ings, and are also improving in composing
essays and take delight in learning poetry,
and speaking and reading selections. We
have good times and enjoy the spirit of the
Lord, we feel that we have His blessing
with us continually. Our Improvement As-
sociation was organized Nov. 28th, 1875,
with the following officers:
	Mrs. Melissa K. Lee, President,
	"	Bathsheba Grundy,
	Miss Libbie Hamblin,
	"	Leah Blackburn,
	"	Rhoda Baker,				Counselors.
	"	Sarah Ann Zabriskie,
	"	Frances Grundy,
	Mrs. Emeline Goodman,		Secretaries
	"	Mary A. Osborn,
	We have made our resolutions as follows:
	1st. Resolved: That we consider it a duty
devolving on the members of this Associa-
tion to attend Sabbath meetings. Fast-day
meetings, and all other religious meetings
of the Saints.
	2nd. Resolved: That as we believe tak-
ing the name of God in vain is a deep pro-
fanity, we will use our influence to abolish
that practice, and will abstain from the use
of all slang phrases or by-words which are
degrading to all those that use them.
	3rd. Resolved: That inasmuch as strong
drink is injurious to health and happiness,
we will try to reduce that practice by not
associating with those who use it to excess.
	4th. Resolved: That as we believe the
use of tobacco is very injurious to the health
and very disagreeable in the presence of
ladies, therefore we will use all our influ-
ence to prevent this unwise habit.
	5th. Resolved: That as round dancing al-
so is very injurious to health we will not
indulge in it to excess; and will try to re-
form our conduct in general, such habits
as loud laughter, speaking lightly of each
other and of sacred things.
	Our prayer is that the Lord will bless us
and all those that strive to do right, that
we may have His blessings continually, is
our desire
 Yours Respectfully,
		MRS.MARY A. OSBORN,
							Sec'y. 
        	KAMAS, March 13th, 1876.

DEAR EXPONENT:

	Not wishing to be entirely forgotten by
our friends I send you a communication
from this secluded portion of our MOUN-
TAIN HOME. Could you see our beautiful
valley clad in snow from mountain to river,
you might imagine yourself at the North
Pole, with no sign of Spring. Some time
since we were favored with a visit from
some of the leading brethren in the church.
They held several meetings which were
well attended and a good spirit prevailed,
for while they sharply reproved us for our
sins, they left us not without the hope and
consolation of the Gospel; but like faithful
servants of their Divine Master, opened the
door whereby we could, through obedience

to the ordinance of baptism, renew our cove-
nants; and start anew to serve the Lord.
 I believe the Sisters are doing all they
can to carry out the counsel of our Bishop,
and forward the work of reformation in
this place. Financially, we cannot boast of
our circumstances, still we do all in our pow-
er to help the poor and needy, visit the sick,
and comfort those who mourn; having faith
in the words of our Savior "Inasmuch as ye
have done it unto one of the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me." I
can truly say we enjoy the spirit of the
Lord in our meetings.
	We have a Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association, with the following
officers:
	Miss Celestia Young, President,
	"	Mary Williams,
	"	Ursula Pack,			Counselors.
	We have also established a class for the
instruction of little girls in some of the
branches of HOME INDUSTRY.
	The Ladies of the Relief Society gave a
ball on the 27th of Feb., the hall was beau-
tifully decorated for the occasion. Dan-
cing commenced at 2 o'clock p. m., and clos-
ing at 10; we have had no round dancing
this winter.
                                 PHEBE YOUNG.
                                      Assist. Sec'y.

                                BLOOMINGTON, March 6th, 1876
 EDITOR EXPONENT:
 I have been thinking for some time of
contributing a few lines to your valuable pa-
per in behalf of our Relief Society, which
is in a flourishing condition. I can truly
say our Associations have united us togeth-
er; althouth we have not much means we
are rich in spirit, blest with health, kind
hearts and willing hands, that are ready to
help build up the Kingdom of God. We
received a visit from Sister Horne whose
valuable instructions have sunk deep into
our hearts, and for whom we shall ever
pray. We read your valuable paper with
interest and cherish its encouraging coun-
sels. Sister Horne organized a Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association, which we
hope will begin a new era in the lives of
the young people. To asssist in rolling on
the Kingdom of God is the desire of their
hearts.	
	Yours Respectfully,
					Anne Nelson, Sec'y.

				SALEM, March 8th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking for some time that
I would send you a report of the organiza-
tion of our Retrenchment Association in
Salem, but not being accustomed to writ-
ing letters of this kind, I have neglected it
until now. There are but a few young la-
dies in this place, consequently our society
is composed mostly of small girls, but they
attend meetings very faithfully and take
great pride in selecting good pieces from
the best books and papers, and a good spirit
prevails generally; I never enjoy myself
better than when I attend these meetings.
I think it is a great privilege the young sis-
ters have to improve the talents the Lord
has given them in this way. If we could
only realize the work we have to perform
and the short time we have to do it in,
I think we would be more ready and will-
ing to respond to the calls that are made of
us from time to time. We have an excel-
lent presidency, who are doing all they can
for the advancement of the young. We
have resolved to carry out the counsel of
President Young in regard to dancing.

Our society was organized July 17th, 1875,
with the following named officers:
	Mrs. Martha Curtis, President,
	"	Josephine Higgins,
	"	Sarah D. Curtis,		Counselors.
	Miss Almira Jackman, Secretary,
	Mrs. Delia Hanchett, Treasurer.

	May God bless the EXPONENT and all
those who are interested in its welfare is
the earnest desire of your sister in the Gos-
pel of Christ.
				ALMIRA JACKSON,
						Secretary.
		MALAD CITY, UNEIDA CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few lines from this part
of the Lord's vineyard would be interest-
ing to the numerous readers of the EXPO-
NENT, I avail myself of the opportunity.
	The Relief Society held their annual
meeting at this place, Feb. 28th, which was
well attended. Appropriate speeches were
delivered by the president Mrs. Jane Price
and her Counselors, Mrs. Ann Daniels,
Esther Lusk and others. The Secretary,
Mrs. Esther Goodliffe read a report of the
condition of the Society, showing a balance
of $168 in cash in the Treasury box, not-
withstanding the many acts of charity ex-
tended to the needy during the year end-
ing Feb. 28th, Mrs. Martha Jones, Treasurer.
The officers of the Society were unani-
mously re-elected for the next year. The
plans for future operations were discussed
in a business manner, each member giving
her views to the best of her ability. There
is more interest taken in becoming self-sus-
taining than was ever known in this settle-
ment. At the present date the Society
numbers 120 members and the number
keeps increasing at each meeting.
 Great praise and credit are due to the
ladies of Malad, progression is their motto.
I wish to say further that under the super-
intendence of our venerable and worthy
Bishop Daniels, in the mercantile and oth-
er departments of co-operation we continue
to grow in wealth and strength; and though
our homes are not palaces, we enjoy peace
and plenty.
 The health of the people is very good,
and their circumstances cheerful, with
plenty of time these winter months for
mental culture, recreation and social enjoy-
ment.
 The Sunday School is in a flourishing
condition under the supervision of Edward
Roberts and James Harrison. Credit is due
Mr. George Stuart General Superintendent
of all the Sunday Schools in this valley,
for his untiring efforts to supply the schools
with books, presents &c.
	We have two well-attended day schools
in Malad City. The cause of education is
in the ascendency here. Our future prospects
are cheerful to all those who have at heart
the culture and welfare of the rising gener-
ation.
	We avail ourselves of every possible
means within our reach to improve our-
selves, taking in consideration the circum-
stances which surround us, and I believe
rank favorably with the rest of mankind in
intelligence and education, and are gaining
a knowledge of our most holy religion.
	Success to the Exponent and all its pat-
rons. Adieu. 
							JANE PRICE.


LOVERS should be careful how they act in
the country, for potatoes have eyes, corn
ears, and beans s-talk.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	163


For the EXPONENT.
A TRUE FRIEND.

THESE LINES ARE AFFECTIONATELY IN-
SCRIBED TO MY FRIEND EMMA E.

Not alone when Summer breezes
	Oe'r the meadows and the lea,
Softly fan the verdant grasses,
	Art thou a true friend to me;
But when Winter dark and drear
	Has cast on nature's face a gloom,
Then though icy blows the air,
	The flowers of friendship bloom.

Not alone when sunshine gleams
	Brightly on my path of life,
Bringing health, and joy and pleasure,
	With no thought of care or strife;
But when angry clouds of trouble
	Dark and heavy—without end,
Chase each other o'er my pathway
	Thou art still my faithful friend.

Not alone when stars are beaming,
	Softly o'er the grassy plain,
Shedding rare and sweet effulgence,
	Bringing back my youth again.
But when night all dark and stormy,
	And in doubt e'en prayers ascend,
In my soul I feel assurance
	That thou art indeed my friend.

Not alone when hope in freshness,
	Lingers bright around my way,
Whispering of a pre-existence
	Far beyond—in realms of day;
But when sorrows dark and threatening
	Crush my heart—O, Heaven defend—
Be thou strong in holy friendship,
	Ever true till time shall end.
		MRS. ALDER.
S. L. City, March 15th, 1876.


OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.

	I had given you up, and had ceased to
enquire of my aunt if anything appeared in
her last paper from "my old maid;" when,
this evening the EXPONENT containing
your remarkable description of yourself,
and synopsis of your life was spread before
me.
	To meet you fairly, I suppose I should re-
ciprocate, and give you some details con-
cerning myself. But I am not good at
drawing burlesques, in which I see you are
calculated to excel. So I hope you will ex-
cuse me on this point. But I shall be happy
to correspond with you, on any subject
which I may be able to treat with some de-
gree of satisfaction.
	What is your favorite pursuit? Do you
like music, painting and poetry? What do
you think of history, philosophy, or relig-
ion? Do you pay  attention to politics?
Can I please you by writing and encourag-
ing you to write upon either of the subjects
mentioned, or any other? You may be
sure I have a desire to interest you, and
will endeavor to do my best in discussing
whatever you may choose to name. I shall
prefer to be somewhat in earnest however,
even if you continue to write in fun.
	Do you dislike to write or talk seriously?
I hope you prefer doing so sometimes, for
although

		"A little nonsense now and then
		Is relished by the wisest men"—
		Yet sober thought is requisite
			High morals to create,
		And TRUTH alone, e'en wits must own,
			Is noble, good and great.

	I certainly should feel highly compli-
mented, in that you do me the honor to be-
lieve me a woman, since you place so low
an estimate on man and consider woman so
much in the ascendency. I have the pleas-
ure of the acquaintance—and I trust the
friendship—of several intelligent and well


informed young ladies who would very de-
cidedly differ with you on these points.
But if I am to retain your friendship, so
graciously offered, by allowing myself to be
believed a woman, and not otherwise, I
cordially submit, and can assure you, you
are at perfect liberty to address me as sister
instead of brother, if it better suits your
delicate fancy. For my own part I cannot
discover so grave a difference between the
general characters of men and those of wo-
men, as some people seem capable of doing.
If I am myself a man, my nearest natural
relative—my mother—was a woman, and if
I am a woman, a man must have been my
father after all.
	If the editors of WOMAN'S EXPONENT
allow all this a place in their columns, I
trust you will not discard me altogether,
but will have the goodness to write again.
				Respectfully,
							HAL.
				[handwritten signature]


FLORAL HINTS.

	HOW TO WATER HANGING BASKETS:—
Set in the middle of the basket or suspend
over it a deep vase or broken goblet, which
should be kept full of water. In the water
place one end of three or four cotton or
worsted cords, and drop the other end of
them on different parts of the top of the
basket. The capillary attraction will cause
a constant flow of the water through the
strings, the number of which may be in-
creased or diminished according as more or
less moisture is needed. The vase, of
course, must be fastened so as it will not
tip and spill the water. It may also be
filled with "Wandering Jew," or anything
that will grow in water, and thus add to the
beauty of the basket. The many advanta-
ges of this arrangement are obvious.


FLOWERS.

	THE affections of a woman are like pearls
—often thrown up by the stormy ocean of
adversity.
	As malarious air may endanger a good
constitution, so bad companions endanger a
good character.
	THERE is no just action, no kind word,
no obliging demeanor, no chastity, no hos-
pitality that springs from selfishness which
will not have its penalty, inasmuch as it
corrupts the character; and there is no kind-
ness, no forbearance, no generosity, no
charity that springs from disinterested be-
nevolence which has not its remuneration,
for it makes men better, nobler, and purer.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		OXFORD ONEIDA CO., March 5th '76.
	When our dear little children are pros-
trated with sickness, we are fearing and
trembling lest they should not recover, es-
pecially if we are alone with them. It ap-
pears to be natural, but dear mothers it is
not the right way.
	When you see your child is sick, do not
get frightened, and your nerves all upset
so that the Evil One who is always waiting
near, can have power over you and your
child, but go to your Heavenly Father with
a humble heart and ask Him to forgive you
of your sins; for who of us are without sin,
and strengthen your faith that the Adver-
sary may be rebuked. Then go to your
child with strong faith and lay your hands
upon the little head, and rebuke the de-
stroyer in the name of Jesus Christ &c.


Our children are given to us dear sisters,
and we must keep our hearts prayerful each
moment we live and ourselves free from
sin so that we can hold them with firm
faith; they are committed to our care, and
we should if possible, be equal to every
emergency. Is it not important then that
we should live near unto God and carry
with us thankful hearts all the year round?
What mother cares for this world's riches
and vain glories in comparison to the life
and welfare of her children. Therefore
dear sisters, let us all try and live our re-
ligion from hour to hour and day to day, so
thatwe may not be found wanting is my
desire in the name of Jesus.
						D. E. DUDLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have for a long time been wishing that
by. the Spirit of God I might be able
to write a few lines that might be edifying
to some, and that would also tend to develop
my own mind. I feel and realize that the
more we exercise the ability and cultivate
the knowledge which God has given unto
us, the better will we be able to convey
our thoughts, and by seeking after Him in
humble prayer, He will enlarge our under-
standings so that we can comprehend more
clearly the work that is for us to perform,
that we may be helpmeets to our husbands
in rolling forth this great work of salvation
in these the LAST DAYS. I am but young,
yet I feel to rejoice in the glorious princi-
ples which the Lord has revealed for the
salvation of His children; and feel to bless
my parents every day that I live for instill-
ing these principles in my mind in child-
hood. I think that many of us while young,
do not realize that it is our good our parents
are seeking when they persuade us to go to
meetings instead of going out walking for
amusement; but in after years, when we be-
come wives and mothers we realize it more
fully; I have proved this in my short expe-
rience, and I think it is also the experience
of a great many. Let us as a united band
of sisters improve in everything that is good
that we may be fit instruments in the hands
of God in fulfilling His wise purposes, and
perform our work faithfully in elevating the
sphere of woman.
	I think that the EXPONENT is an excel-
lent paper and may it receive a wider circu-
lation among the sisters, and accomplish the
good work for which it was started. This is
the earnest prayer of your sister in the Gos-
pel.
				MRS. M. W. WARNICK.
	Pleasant Grove, March 13th 1876.


SOME fill conspicuous places, some make
the places they fill conspicuous.
	HONOR is but the reflection of a man's
own actions shining bright in the face of all
about him, and from thence rebounding up-
on himself.—South.
	THERE is an emanation from the heart
in genuine hospitality which cannot be de-
scribed but is immediately felt, and puts
the stranger at once at his ease.—Washing-
ton Irving.
	JOHN G. Whittier has a statuette of Her-
cules leaning on his club, which was formerly
in Charles Sumner's library. It was pre-
sented to the poet by the sister of Mr. Sum-
ner.
	THE poet Moore, whose verse is so singu-
larly mellifluous, liquid, facile, has remarked
that "labor is the purest of all the lasting
wonders of the world, whether in verse or
stone, whether poetry or pyramids."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
	EM[-]ELINE B. WELLS.        }Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1[--] Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
ra[-]es. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1876.


For WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
To whom it may concern.
	It will be recollected that an article, written
by me, entitled "Mortal and Immortal Ele-
ments of the Human Body—A Philosophical
Objection to the Resurrection Removed." was
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in Sep-
tember, 1875, and that subsequently an article
written and signed py Pres. Young appeared in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in which the former
was pronounced untrue.
	Permit me to say that I fully concur in the
views expressed by Pres. Young, and withdraw
everything contained in my article at variance
therewith, and trust that no Latter-Day Saint
may be led into erroneous doctrine through
anything written by me.
	Salt Lake City, March 19, 1876.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	Some of the best schools that could be insti-
tuted for many young women in this city and
various other places, would be those in which
cooking and housewifery might be throughly
taught.
	These things every one believes, should be
taught at home. But how many mothers there
are who have never had opportunities for learn-
ing the best methods for conducting their
house work.
	Happy matches sometimes result from the
admiration gentlemen feel for young ladies
whom they happen to observe are capable of
presiding well at table, or cooking a good din-
ner. There is a great deal more in these simple
things than some girls, or some mothers are
aware. For instance, in pouring tea or coffee,
(we do not advocate the use of either, but if
they must form a part of any meal it is well to
know how to manage them,) it is often the
case that persons not knowing[-]that the first
cup is the weakest and that the tea grows
stronger as the pouring off proceeds, bestows
the poorest cup upon the one for whom the best
should have been intended and give the last
and strongest cup to a young member of the
family. Where several cups of equal strength
are wanted, pour a little into each, then go
back inverting the order as the cups are filled
up, and the strength will be apportioned prop-
erly. This is so well understood by some that
an experienced hand waits till all the cups of
a company are returned to her before filling
any a second time, so that all may share
equally. Of course the tastes of all should be
consulted.
	Every sort of cooking should be done in a
dress that will wash, with a clean apron over
it; and it is well if the hair be covered. It


looks out of place certainly, to see a lady mak-
ing pies in an old black silk dress, trim[---]
with crape, and every crease full of flour.  All
old silk is useful for linings. but once used to
make pies or cakes in, it will be so defaced as
to lose half its value.
	This subject is one of such grave importance
that it will bear following up for a short per-
iod.


IGNORANCE AND EXTRAVAGANCE.

	It is an easy way of extricating one's self
from a difficulty to throw the blame on to
some irresponsible party, and woman seems to
have been made the scape-goat and make shift
in all the great questions that threaten danger
to man. "It is some woman's work, is the
foregone conclusion and of course it is a mat-
ter of self-gratulation to fancy that the wo-
man has done it, ignorantly and unthinkingly.
How could she know better, she is all weak-
ness and all dependence, and could not be ex-
pected to understand the dreadful consequences
which might be the result of only her vanity
or caprice? Man likes woman to be all sim-
plicity, weakness and dependence, but how
does he like the consequences it involves?
Would it not be more desirable to have a wife
who could thoroughly understand her husband's
position in regard to finance, and not only reali-
zed but appreciated the true dignity of character
which he should maintain despite style, society
and the admiration of men whose good opin-
ion is not worth a moment's thought of a pure-
minded honorable woman.
	Men who are anxious that woman should
trust blindly and implicitly to them for guid-
ance having no positive ideas of her own (ex-
cept upon the elegance and exquisiteness of
her costumes) are rightly served when they
are brought face to face with the stubborn fact
that they are ruined by her.
	Will it never be possible to make the major-
ity of men comprehend that woman's equality
with them on all subjects for the general wel-
fare, would save them from many of the en-
tanglements in which they become involved
through her ignorance and extravagance. It
is only the p[-]sitive result of their own preciou[-]
policy.
	Woman when on an equal footing will lose
her winsomeness, her attractiveness, her mag-
netic charm, this is their fallacious reasoning—
but if woman charms to destroy, if she through
these very attractions brings her husband to
ruin, what then? And where lies the fault? If
her education has been too superficial to give
her an understanding of what was best for her
own and her husband's interests, and most of
all what should be for the best welfare of her 
children—then is it not time for some change—
is it not time that woman was taught the prin-
ciples of the government of her country. and
what is due the country from those who sit in
high places and fill offices of trust? Is it not
absurd in this age of enlightenment for woman
to plead ignorance as an excuse for folly—be-
cause if such is really the case, what a terrible
account of time, opportunities and talents
wasted must be rendered to her Maker.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A NUMBER of valuable communications
have been left over until next issue for want
of space.
	NEXT THURSDAY the 6th inst., will commence
the Forty-sixth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.


"BEN ISRAEL, or From Under the Curse,"
was performed at the theatre in this city Sat-,
urday evening March 25, and drew a large at-
tendance. Mr. E. W. Tullidge, the author,
has recently arrived from New York.
	THE NEW Chief Justice: Utah is to have
another change o fthis kind within a year.
The gentleman is a stranger here, but is said to
be thoroughly versed in laws relative to min-
ing and land questions. His name is John M.
Coglan, a Kentuckian by birth, but has resided
in California ever since the year 1850. 
	THE NEW and capacious building erected on
Main Street for the benefit of Z. C. M. I. is al-
ready very near completion, and is, or will
very soon be occupied by the institution. This
noble structure is a grand acquistion to the
city, and the ready manner in which the work
upon it has been performed, is an indication of
what might be accomplished through co-opera-
tion.
	WE LEARN from the "Utah Pomologist,"
J. E. Johnson's paper, that the ladies of St.
George have concluded—or ought to conclude
—to get their goods cheaper than they can be
obtained in that locality at present. Mr. John-
son advises the ladies to "put in a small sum
each, form a real co-op, employ one of their
number as clerk and leave the sterner sex to
seek more manly and fitting employment." If
co-ope[-]ation of this kind could be properly en-
tered into and carried out by different branch-
es of the Relief Society a great deal of time
and money would be saved that are now un-
profitably expended. 
	WE TAKE pleasure in recommending to the
reading public a new book just recently pub-
lished by the "Deseret News Co." entitled "Cor-
respondence at Palestine Tourists." It com-
prises a series of letters by George A. Smith,
Lorenzo Snow, Paul A. Schettler, and Eliza
R. Snow. These letters were mostly written
while traveling in Europe, Asia, and Africa in
the years 1872 and 1873; and contain interest-
ing items in regard to the various places they
vi[-]ited in these countries, with accurate and
reliable information concerning manners, cust-
toms and habits of the different varieties of
people who live upon the Eastern continent.


LETTER FROM MRS. M. I. HORNE.

		PARIS, BEAR LAKE, March 2nd, 1876
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As you requested a communication from me
during my visit to this Northern country, I
have tried to get time to write, but have not
succeeded until to-day. I left Salt Lake on
the 19th of Jan. by the seven o'clock train.
When we arrived in Ogden, I was through
the kindness of Bro Z. Jacobs conducted to
the U. P. train. During my ride to Evanston
I conversed with some of the passengers.
Thinking a part of our conversation might be
interesting to some of your readers, I will give
you a few items. Among the passengers was
a Southern lady whose husband was an inva-
lid; they were traveling from Califor[-]ia to
Louisana to spend the winter. When she
found I was from Salt Lake she asked me a 
number of questions about our people, and our
facilities for education. I told her they were
very good, and our children would compare
favorably with the children of other commu-
nities. We talked at some length on our re-
ligious beliefs, especially polygamy. I told her
it was a principle of our faith given to us by
divine revelation from God, and we accepted


[Column 1]
it and was willing to live by it, knowing that
it was given for the salvation, redemption and
elevation of the human family. "Well," said
she, "I would [-]ot submit to that upon any
consideration." We also conversed upon the
Scriptures, and the doctrines of Christ and His
Apostles. I told her that we believe in the
same doctrines, quoting scripture to prove my
assertion. "Well," said she, "the more we
search into these things, the greater the mys-
tery." I said it was no mystery to those that
had the same spirit by which they were writ-
ten, for holy men of old spake as they were
moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and we could
not get that spirit only by complying with the
requirements of the Gospel which I had been
explaining to her. The Savior said "he thatdid not come in at the door, but climbed up
some other way was a thief and a robber."
I bore a faithful testimony to her of the truth
of Mormonism. Said I, if we should meet be-
hind the vail, you may remember the testimo-
ny I have borne you this day. She only
smiled. But remarked she would like to visit
Salt Lake on her return. A Catholic Priest
hearing her said, "you would see a fine city
Madame, and a very industrious people; much
credit is due them for what they have accom-
plished in so short a time. I do not hold with
their religious tenets, I am a Catholic Father,
I do dot know what your profession is. I went
to Salt Lake eleven years ago, with as much
prejudice as any one, thinking that the people
were mainly honest, but that their leaders were
impostors and deceivers. After living with
them I have come to the conclusion that they
are as sincere in their religious belief as any of
the ministers of the Gospel, and should have
the same protection and privileges as any oth-
er people. "Why," said he, "the idea that
we Gentile Ministers (as they call us) thinking
we have only to take our doctrines there and
preach, to convert them. why they have some-
thing so far superior to anything we can take
them, we can make no impression on them
whatever." And yet, I remarked we are call-
ed an ignorant people. He came to me and
asked me if I was a Mormon. I said I was, he
sat down beside me and asked if I had any ob-
jections to his asking me a few questions; I
told him I would be pleased to answer any
questions he wished to ask. He said please ex-
cuse me, but if a man has two or three wives
are they as virtuous and true to him as if he
had only one? I answered, just as sacredly so
—as we are all bound by the same covenant. I
told him we believe it the privilege of every
woman to become an honorable wife and moth-
er; as woman's mission on the earth was to
bear the souls of men. The Lord said in the
beginning "go forth and multiply and replen-
ish the earth;" I said, you know sir, there are
thousands of men that are killed in battle, that
never marry; consequently there is a surplus
of women on the earth. The Lord revealed
the law of celestial MARRIAGE to elevate wo-
man to an honorable position, and bind us to-
gether for time and all eternity. We have con-
fidence in our husbands if they should be sent
to the ends of the earth we have no fear of
their being untrue to us. I asked him if he
did not see a much better state of society with
us, where women were protected from evil
men; while in the world they were degraded,
and treated as outcasts. "Oh," says he there
is indeed less evil in in your midst; your city
is the best governed and your people the most
moral of any that I know of; and it was much
better when under Mormon rulers, as it was
when I first came among you, than it is now.
	A great many times in the course of our con-
versation he would say, "your arguments are

[Column 2]
correct." He said he wanted to show me that
the Priesthood descended through the Catholic
Chur[-]h till the present day. After he had got
through, I answered, they crucified the Sav-
ior and pat the Apostles to death; consequent-
ly the Priesthood was taken from the earth;
besides the Apostles said there should be a fall-
ing away. "Oh," said he, "that means an in-
dividual falling away." He said "I should like
to know more of your doctrines, can you tell
me where I can purchase a book of Doctrine
and Covenants? I told him at the Deseret
News Office. He spoke very highly of Prest.
Young as a man of superior mind; after ask-
ing me a great many questions, he thanked
me, and they all bade me a pleasant good-bye
at Evanston, at which place I was delayed on
account of storms for three days and a half.
			(to be continued)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	165


OUR RELIGION.

	I should suppose that far seeing, ambitious,
yet tender wives and mothers, would not fail
to discover in the "Mormon plural wife sys-
tem," a means of entirely removing the great-
est and most rational objection brought for-
ward in opposition to women occupying pub-
lic offices. Men tell us and, many practical
women join them in the opinion, that a wo-
man's domestic concerns must be neglected if
her attention is given to anything else. But
in well regulated, happy polygamous families,
this difficulty is readily obviated, as the home
interests are mutual; and in the case of either
wife being absent or publicly engaged, anoth-
er may take the oversight and management of
the household affairs, look after the children,
and see that nothing goes wrong.
	I would be a Mormon—a whole-hearted, ear-
nest Mormon—if only for the sake of the heal-
ing ordinance which our religion contains. I
can only wonder when I see those who profess
to be Mormons, appear forgetful of God's prom-
ises to His people. In cases of severe or sudden
sickness, sometimes it seems as though they
question in themselves which it is best for
them to consult first, the Lord or the doctor.
B[-]t if, in all such cases, we could only reflect
reasonably and prayerfully, we should know
that unless the Lord [-]ight see fit to allow our
friends to be taken from us, he would hear our
petitions, and inspire us to pursue proper meth-
ods that they might be healed. And that if
the Lord would not heal them the doctors could
not. I say this with all due deference to good
physicians. I admire, respect and honor men
and women who labor to inform themselves on
scientific subjects, for the good of their fellow
beings. But the Lord knows more than it is
possible for them to learn in their mortal state,
and He has promised to heal those who will
call upon Him in faith.
	In reading of John Wesley, George White
field, Philip Doddridge and other wise and good
men who lived a few generations since, I have
wondered that they never understood and fol-
lowed the words of God in times of sickness
and suffering among themselves and their
friends. How must they have interpreted this
passage of Scripture. "Is any sick among you?
Let him call for the elders of the church, and
let them pray over him, anointing him with
oil, in the name of the Lord."
	I suppose the Lord did not wish to open their
eyes and quicken their understandings then,
that they might receive a knowledge of the
fulness of the everlasting Go[---] It was not
His set time for restoring His Priesthood to
the sons of men.


And now that it is among us, how slow we
are to realize and acknowledge its blesssings!
But the Gospel of Jesus is perfect in all its
parts; and we have only to learn to live in ac-
cordance with its principles, in order to over-
come all our imperfections. To live perfect
lives we have only to live our Religion.
							MAUD LILY.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	IT may be mentioned as a historical sin-
gularity, that all the English kings who mar-
ried French princesses incurred the dis-
pleasure of their subjects and suffered vio-
lent deaths; as Edward II, Richard II,
Henry VI, and Charles I.
	AMONGST our industrious and frugal fore-
fathers, it was a maxim, that a young wo-
man should never be married until she had
spun herself a set of body, table, and bed-
linen. From this custom all unmarried wo-
men were termed spinsters, an appellation
they still retain in all our law proceedings.
	THE Danish Ambassador, having com-
plained to King William of the liberties ta-
ken with his master by Lord M[---]sworth
in his celebrated "Account of Denmark,"
hinted that if one of his Danish Majesty's
subjects had said as much of the King of
England, his master would upon complaint,
have taken off the author's head. "That I
cannot do," rejoined the king; "but if you
please, I will tell him what you say, and he
shall put it in the next edition of his book."
	FUSELI, the celebrated artist, had a great
dislike to commonplace observations. Af-
ter sitting perfectly silent for a long time in
his own room, during the "bald, disjointed
chat" of some idle callers-in, who were gab-
bling with one another about the weather,
and other topics of as interesting a nature,
he suddenly exclaimed, "We had pork for
dinner to-day."--"Dear! Mr. Fuseli, what
an odd remark!"--"Why, it is as good as
anything you have been saying for the last
hour.
	"GOOD WINE NEEDS NO BUSH."—Com-
mentators have been sadly puzzled to find
out the meaning of this proverb, which a
residence in France during an autumn
would easily have solved. In the depart-
ments where the vine is cultivated, the pea-
sant sells its vintage; and as a sign, a green
bush is stuck in the wall over the door; this
is a regulation of the police; and as long as
the peasant has any wine to sell, so long
must the bush remain. If one has made
better wine than another, the news is soon
spread abroad amongst the topers, and hence
the proverb, good wine needs no bush.
	"HELP, HELP!"—When Dick Aims first
crossed into York State, from the Canada
side, he took lodgings at an inn in Canand-
aigua. Awwaiting-maid sat at the table
with them; and Dick spoke of her as the
servant to the no small scandal of mine
host; who told him that in his house a ser-
vant was called a "help." Very well; the
next morning the whole house was alarmed
by a loud shouting by Dick of "Help! help!
water! help!" in an instant every person
in the inn equal to the task, rushed into
Dick's room with a pail of water. "I am
much obliged to ye, to be sure," said Dick,
"but here is more than I want to shave
with." "Shave with?" quoth mine host,
"you called 'help' and 'water!' and we
thought the house was on fire," "Ye told
me to call the servant help, and do ye think
I would cry water when I meant fire?"
"Give it up." said the landlord, as he led off
the line of buckets--New York Sun.


166		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN’S AMBITION.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	What should be woman's highest ambi-
tion, is a question often propounded, and
one to which it is difficult for even the most
profound student of human nature to give
a decisive or satisfactory answer. Men dif-
fer in their opinions upon this subject accord-
ing to their own tastes and cultivation.
That there should be some standard good-
ness to be attained by every woman of sense
and judgment all will agree. Pope in his
"Moral Essays" reduces their ambitions to
the low estimate of two passions only (in
general:)

		“In men we various ruling passions find;
		In woman two almost divide the kind:	
		Those only fix'd, they first or last obey,
		The love of pleasure, [-]r[-]the love of sway."

	Many men learned in book knowledge,
have made serious mistakes in their esti-
mate of woman's true character. Alas! one
can but regret the false judgment in regard
to woman which men, who on other ques-
tions make careful investigations, and are
particular not to convey wrong impressions,
yet stamp indelibly upon the public mind,
in dealing with this puzzling subject, which
above almost all others should be rightly
understood if woman is ever to fill the
true sphere for which nature has so pecu-
liarly adapted her, by the unmistakable tone
of her sentiments and bent of her tastes.
	Left even in a wild uncultivated state it
is apparent to the casual observer or care-
ful reader, woman seeks for the beautiful
in nature and ornamentation. Nor is this
any direct indication of frivolity or vanity,
or a definite tendency to shine in the eyes
of others or even to charm, but simply to
satisfy the cravings of a disposition implant-
ed in her, the innate love of the beautiful,
that she retains as part and parcel of that
divine heritage, her especial dower at the
hands of her Maker.
	That woman retains more of the refining
and  purifying elements in her nature
should be a positive demonstration in the
minds of all persons of discernment that
she has a special mission. That she
is endowed with more innate purity
and grace, a more intuitive conception
of divinity is a proof that she is the
real help-meet to assist in reinstating man
through her powerful influence in perfect-
ing and refining, that she may become with
him a participant in the glorious blessings
of that life which is eternal and without
parallell.
	According to the Bible, part of the curse
pronounced upon woman in the "Garden of
Eden" was that "her desire should be unto
her husband and he would rule over her."
Then was she not made equal with man,
and was it not through her agency that God
accomplished upon the earth the purposes
of its creation; for through her came the
knowledge of good and evil, without which
mankind could not have tested their integ-
rity before high heaven. And will it not be
through her devotion to God and her rev-
erence for all that is most holy and sacred,
that will most effectually influence man to
become pure, that he may again dwell in
Paradise.
	In what way can she best fulfill her sa-
cred and holy mission, and what should be
her highest ambition? This brings us back
to the point from which we started. That
woman should be a purifier of the moral
and religious atmospheres of society is
highly necessary. And what better proof
do we need of the merit of her work, than

[Column 2]
the testimony of men themselves who are
ready to acknowledge that without wo-
man's society man becomes coarse and un-
couth.
	What is this terrible fear men have of
woman's strength of mind and character,
which is almost universal? In both the
higher and lower classes of society, this fear
exists in about the same ratio. And even
men' who are extremely liberal in compari-
son with the majority, are continually on
the alert lest there should be a tendency in
THEIR wives and daughters to something
unfeminine.
	Is it not quite true that those men who
have left the best and fairest record of their
lives upon the earth, have been stimulated
to good, and strengthened in virtue, their
lives rounded and toned through the influ-
ance, and perhaps undemonstrative direc-
tion of woman, mother, sister, wife or
friend? Then why seek to rob woman of
the privilege assigned her in her creation,
to be a helpmeet? Why should she not
stand side by side with her brother, in all
questions of interest for the common weal?
For my part, I glory in the moral courage
which arms woman with sufficient heroism
to stand forth in her own defense, against
any invasion upon her inherited rights and
privileges. I know that although woman
may entertain some ideas that may not be
wholly consistent, yet out of the movement
which she is making to become more thor-
oughly developed and highly educated, will
yet spring a nearer conception of woman's
mission and work. Woman must eventu-
ally see (however distasteful to the opposite
sex the result may be,) that it is necessary
to possess sufficient strength of individual
character to protect her own purity and
chastity instead of relying upon the sterner
sex. Nor need man fear that a woman who
has all the attributes of mind under the
highest state of cultivation will be less cap-
able of loving a husband, for LOVE is a part
of her nature, inherent in her very being
which has been transmitted to her through
her divine parentage, and which also proves
her to be near akin to God, whom John the
beloved disciple describes in the 4th chapt-
er and 16th verse of his Epistle, thus, "God
is love."
	A higher education will not make woman
less capable of loving, but it will qualify
her to place her affections upon an object
worthy of the best and truest affections of
her womanly nature. Consequently men
who would stand high in woman's favor
must be in themselves more worthy, and
make for themselves a superior standard of
morals, and live by a higher law. And
when men can command by real merits the
admiration of woman, then will woman, if
she has lived up to her privileges, be ready
to stand by his side to counsel and advise,
to comfort and to bless.
	S. L. City, March 20th, 1876.


PETTY DESPOTISM.

	Even in these days of Centennial free-
dom, one is occasionally reminded that all
despotism, of various degrees, is not yet
dead.
	There is the despotism of society, which
issues irrevocable edicts, and forbids all in-
dependence of thought and action; banish-
ing the intelligent and refined who may not
possess the requisite amount of money, and
making abject slaves of its votaries.
	There is the despotism political, giving
ing power to one sex only, to make laws for
the other.
	There is the despot of art, who sneers at


every effort of those who are not already
distinguished in the field.
	There is the despot in literature, who
would, if possible, prevent every one ex-
cept a Tennyson or a Browning or a few of
our own eminent poets and authors, from
using the pen.
	If a girl possess a passion for painting,
even though her brush yield nothing but
daubs to the educated eye, let her gratify
that love; be sorry for her that she cannot
have the advantages she craves, but do not
tell her that chromos are quite cheap, and
infinitely superior to anything she can pro-
duce. If a poor man hangs pretty, cheer-
ful chromos on his walls, do not tell him
that he will vitiate the taste of his child-
ren by so doing, and that he ought instead,
to purchase good engravings. The eye de-
lights in color; even crude coloring is better
that none.
	If a wealthy man buys beautiful paintings,
as he can do even here in America, do not
insist that it is his duty to send them all off
to the auction-room, and substitute photo-
graphs of Sistine Madonna. If even a wo-
man feels thoughts firing her brain while
she is washing dishes, let her tell them to
the world if she can get the world to listen.
For we contend that the people, other than
the great lights of literature, do have
thoughts to express, and original ones at
that. Thoughts born of daily and hourly
experience; thoughts wrenched out of heart
and brain with such pangs that one is posi-
tive the roots were branching on their na-
tive soil, and were not the transplanted
growths of some ancient or modern mind.
If they chance to be similar it is not sur-
prising, but the originality is not impaired.
	In a recent poem by a great poet a few
lines are startingly similar to others in some
obscure verses printed some dozen years
ago. Of course no one could be so absurd
as to imagine that the poet had ever seen
those verses, but if they were to re-appear
now, some astute critic would express sur-
prise at the daring plagiarism of the rhym-
ster.
	The writer has never been a correspond-
ent of Dr. Holmes, and has never used the
words "lush and swirl," so the rhymed let-
ter in a recent "Atlantic" is no personal
grievance, but, in behalf of all new writers
who have thoughts, we would protest against
the injustice. Critics seem to forget that
our poets are mortal, and that each coming
cycle will refuse to be satisfied with even
their echoing songs; every time will count
its rising bands of living singers.
								KEO.
—Woman's Journal.


MEASURE the stone by your rule and not
your rule by the stone.
	ONE ungrateful man does an injury to all[--]
who are wretched.
	OLD men are like the wrecks of t[---]
thrown by the waves of one century upon
the shore of another.
	WE too often tolerate foolery out of com-
plaisance, and play the fool from the same
weak motive.
	IF you want to understand a subject, hear
a man speak of it whose business it is. If
you want to understand the man, hear him
speak of something else.
	THERE is no living creature that gives,
us such an idea of happiness as a bird, as it
skims on light wing along the ether, alights
on flowery shrubs, or on the springy bow of
a lofty tree, or dresses its plumage by a
fountain or a stream.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	167﻿


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.

			Goshen, March 14th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is doing well, and we
are making preparations to build a house
this summer to hold our meetings in &c.
Sister Taylor, our Secretary, is preparing a
full report of our Society which she will
send you.
	Our Young Ladies' and Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Societies are in a
flourishing condition. The young ladies
have started a paper entitled the "Young
Ladies' Gem" which contains some very
creditable pieces. Mrs. Christina Higgin-
son is editor; it is doing much good among
the young sisters.
	We are rather isolated here, being about
six miles from the main road through the
settlements, and it is seldom that we have
any of the Elders, or sisters of other Relief
Societies visit us.
	Should any of the sisters from Salt Lake
City be passing through the settlements at
any time, and it will be convenient for
them, we would be very glad if they would
call and see us.
	We received orders from sisters Smith
and Barney, (through our Bishop,) to make
some good strong durable clothing for the
Indians and now have on hand quite a
lot, which we will send down the first
chance we have. I would be very glad to
become acquainted with you, and all good
sisters who wish well for the prosperity of
Zion.
				Yours Sincerly,
					Mary Johnson.
Dear Exponent:
	I send you a report of the 20th Ward
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
which was organized Sep. 3rd, 1875, with 40
members, 55 having been added since.
	Our President and Counselors have mani-
fested a deep interest for the progress of our
meetings and their efforts have been suc-
cessful. A fund has been created for the
purpose of having means on hand when a
call is made to help the poor, or assist in
any good enterprise. The members express
their willingness to help and sustain the
president, showing by their obedience to
any call she makes; they take great in-
terest in these meetings realizing the good
they obtain by paying strict attention to
the instruction they receive.
	In conclusion I will say, temporally we
are poor, spiritually humble, and socially
ready at any time for the presence and so-
ciety of those who are capable of instruct-
ing us.
	Respectfully yours,
					R.E. MANNING
							Secretary.
	20th Ward, Feb. 28th, 1876.

		MANTUA, BOX ELDER CO.,
				      March 4th, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking about writing for
some time, but have neglected it, not being
accustomed to write for a paper. I can truly
say I never felt happier than the day Sister
Eliza R. Snow was here to organize us as
a Retrenchment Association, and blessed us
with such great blessings which I can nev-
er forget. Therefore I feel to bless her and
our President brother Jenson for taking
such a deep interest in our welfare, and for
othsr things as well as having us organized
into these societies which is indeed a great

[Column 2]
privilege, as well as a great blessing to us.
I think it a pleasure as well as a duty to
send you a report of our society; we have
had very interesting meetings, a good spirit
always seems to attend there, even the
smallest girls arise and bear their testimo-
nies. And there also seems to prevail a
spirit of harmony and obedience. I think
they all try to please one another, as well
as the Lord. They also seem to im-
prove in speaking; and are willing to re-
trench from what is required of them. I
don't think there is one imported hat be-
longing to one of the girls in the society;
we also wear home-made dresses and shoes
for which we feel to honor our President
Lorenzo Snow, for his untiring efforts in
the behalf of our HOME MANUFACTURES.
I hope before long we will be more inde-
pendent as a community. We have also
stopped round dancing and close our parties
at ten oclock. We attend our fast meetings
and Sabbath meetings and Sabbath schools.
We dress plainly and I think we all try to
live our religion to the best of our ability.
	Let us be prayerful and try to live as
Saints, and practice good and useful things
while young, so when we grow older we can
look back and see our good works. I ask
the Lord to bless us all. And hoping you
will excuse this my first attempt,
	I remain your sister,
			MISS SOPHIA ANDERSON,
							President.


PINE CANYON, March 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I attended the Retrenchment meeting
this afternoon and President Miss Isabella
Martin requested me to make out a report
of our proceedings here and send it to you.
We meet together every two weeks and
enjoy ourselves in talking of the things per-
taining to the Gospel. The members of our
Society feel it a pleasure to comply with the
wishes of our beloved President Young
with regard to closing our parties at the
time appointed, and have made up our
minds to refrain from round dancing. We
advise the young sisters who have not yet
joined a Refrenchment Association, to do
so, for it will educate and prepare them for
duties in after life, and they will gain ex-
perience and confidence in these societies;
and when we are called to take active
parts in the Church and Kingdom of God,
we will have overcome that feeling of tim-
idity which is so trying to us all when we
arise to counsel and instruct each other.
We have in our society little girls from
eight to ten years of age, who arise and
bear their testimony when called upon, who
I am sure will be numbered with the noble
women of Zion, and will never forget the
influence for good which is now being im-
pressed upon their young minds. Our Re-
trenchment Association was organized June
23rd, 1874, with the following officers:
	Miss Isabella Martin, President,
	Mrs. Charlotte Steele, Supt.,
	"	Eliza Shields,
	"	Margaret Smith,	Counselors.
	"	Martha Shields.
	The hand of death has been in our midst
and has taken from us our beloved and ever
to be remembered Treasurer, Mrs. Martha
Smith, and another has not yet been select-
ed to fill her place.
				LIZZIE MUSSER, Sec'y.


"MARRIAGE," said an unfortunate hus-
band, "is the church yard of love"—"And
you men," replied his wife, "are the grave-
diggers."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Boiled Celery:—Take four or five roots of cel-
ery carfully washed and trimmed and boil in well
salted water for nearly half an hour. Drain them,
place on a hot dish, and pour melted butter, or a
white sauce flavored with some favorite seasoning,
over them.
	Aunt Mary's Pudding:—Butter a tart-dish,
sprinkle the bottom with finely minced candied peel
and a very little shred suet, then a thin layer of
light bread, and so on until the dish is full. For
a pint dish make a liquid custard of one egg and
half a pint of milk, sweeten, pour over the p[-]d-
ding, and bake as slowly as possible for two hours.
	Broiling Meats:—When meats are broiling on a
gridiron over hot coals, the sudden heat sears the
outside, which shuts in the juices, and the rapid
application of heat soon cooks the meat through,
if in [--]oderately thin slices. It is then tender and
palatable. Those who never broil their meat, fish,
or poultry, do not know the excellence of a prop-
erly-cooked dish of animal food.
	Condensed Eggs:—A process has been devised
in Europe for drying, by a gradual heat, the con-
tents of eggs, both white and yelk. The granular
powder thus produced only requires mixing with a
sufficient quantity of water to produce ready-beat-
en eggs capable of being used for puddings, cakes,
etc. A factory has already been established in
Bavaria for the manufacture, and it is expected the
product will soon be in the market.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Hints on Entering a Sick Room:—Never enter a
sick room in a state of prespiration, as the mo-
ment you become cool the pores absorb. Do not
approach persons afflicted with a contagious dis-
ease with an empty; nor sit between the sick and
the fire; because the heat attracts the thin vapor
which floats about the room.
	Hot Lemonade for a Cold:—Hot lemonade is one
of the best remedies for a cold, acting promptly
and efficiently and leaving no bad effects; squeeze
one lemon properly, cut in slices put sufficient su-
gar with it and cover with a pint of boiling water.
Drink it just before going to bed and be careful
not to expose yourself the next day. It will of-
ten prevent attacks of chills and fever.
	Transplanting Tissue:—The transfusion of blood
from a healthy to a feeble person is a well-known
surgical operation, as is also rhinoplasty, or mak-
ing a new nose out of flesh of another part—usu-
ally the arm—of the same patient. The progress
of science has advanced beyond this, and diseased
bone can be cut out and a piece of periostrum or
bone membrane placed on the spot, which induces
the growth of a new bone to replace the old.
Lately in Dublin, a surgeon dissected a piece of
membrane from a rabbit's eye, and planted it upon
a woman's eye, where it took root, so as to speak,
and grew; while, in Vienna, there have been many
cases where success has attended the transplanting
of certain mucous membranes to replace ulcered
surfaces. "Skin-grafting," is also a recognized
surgical operation.


DIVERSIONS.

	AN impossible quantity.—Too much
money.
	WATERING places that remain open all
winter—The mouths of milk-cans.
	IN what place are two heads better than
one?—In a barrel.
	RELATIONSHIPS are rather far-fetched
sometimes, both in Ireland and Scotland.
"Do you know Tom Duffy, Pat?" "Know
him is it," said Pat, "Shure he's a relation
of mine! He once wanted to marry my sis-
ter Kate."


168		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CULTIVATE THE MIND.

	AN ESSAY WRITTEN FOR, AND READ BE-
FORE THE 20th WARD Y. L. R. A.

	The one great cry of the world to-day is
education; and we do not differ from the
rest in this particular. Most of the lectures
and sermons we hear [-]reat more or less on
this subject. When we are exhorted so
much, I think we as obedient children should
strive to obey. It is for our welfare and al-
so for the good of future generations.
	But the question may arise how shall we
arrive at this stage of culture. By reading
light literature that fires the imagination
and builds false hopes that can never be re-
alized or attained to? Emphatically NO!
This destroys rather than improves the
mind. It does not awaken the reflective
organs or give rise to elevating thoughts.
But still, although this fact is so well known,
this trash finds a ready sale, while the
church books and other solid works are neg-
lected by the young. How frequently we
hear the expression, "I can't!" from persons
called upon to perform some duty. Have
they cultivated the abilities God has given
them, to enable them to accomplish what
duty calls for? Our talents are not given
us for our own special use but for each to
benefit the other. How often has the world
been benefitted by the ideas of one man.
The inventive man for instance, by the aid
and application of labor wins for himself a
name that will ever be honored and respect-
ed. The same can be applied to ourselves;
if we store our minds with knowledge
that will be beneficial to the society in
which we move we will be accounted as
general benefactors. Let us endeavor to be
self-made, there is more glory in mounting
the hill through our own perseverance
than if we had crowds helping us. Never
indulge a doubt; fathom beyond them; if
questions arise in your minds, never let
them slip by as being of no consequence,
this is an error that a great many do not ob-
serve until it is too late. To enable us how-
ever to solve these problems, we must em-
ploy our time in useful research upon the
subject that is so incomprehensible to us.
We should take these things into considera-
tion. We go to meeting to learn and many
times we get an idea that is puzzling in its
nature, and as I said before let us employ
a few leisure moments in study, until we
have surmounted the difficulty. Observe
this and every experience will be to us a
means of advancement.
	The world looks upon us as being ignor-
ant. Certainly we have not, in the past,
had the advantages which the present op-
portunities offer us. But God has given to
the children of the Latter day Saints supe-
rior intelligence and they understand the
things of eternity to-day, better than the
wise men of the world. And if they im-
prove their talents in such a way as to win
the approbation of God, He will give them
more; and in a short time through His in-
strumentality they will far excel the world
in every respect.
	Let us so live that we may have God's
Holy Spirit to dictate to us, that our light
may shine before all men.
								R. M.
	20th Ward R. A. S. L. City.


A CHILD'S INQUIRY.

	A mother the other day in the presence
of her children was speaking of a pleasant
ride she had taken some years before; when
her little daughter of three summers not


hearing HER name mentioned as being one
of the party, looked up with an earnest in-
quiry in her dark eyes, and asked, where
was I mama, why didn't you take me with
you? The mother placing her hand lightly
on the little head replied, mama had no
little girl then, you my dear, was with your
Father in Heaven. Assuming an air of
proud satisfaction the little one said, well
where did you get me from then, and what
did He send me to you for? Her last re-
mark made a deep impression on the moth-
er's mind. Yes, what was she sent for? do
we realize the weighty responsibility rest-
ing upon us as mothers? Do we fully un-
derstand why those precious jewels were
entrusted to our care? Are we striving to
the best of our ability to so train their
minds and guard their conduct, as to bring
them up a blessing to us, their parents, and
an honor to society. Do we kneel often in
humble and fervent prayer, earnestly plead-
ing with our Heavenly Father that He will
help us bring up our children in the path
of righteousness? If we are doing this, it
will be well with us, but if we are not who
can say that we shall escape the agony and
bitterness of spirit which will be a sure
consequence of our indifference or neglect
in so high and holy a calling.
	By a mother.
							H. K.
	Santaquin Feb. 25th, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory wo[-]k and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send you orders to	C.R. SAVAGE
		Salt Lake City, Utah.

Now Receiving at
TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House. 

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House. 

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Or a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Four 
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES. Supt. 

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE
23, MAIN STREET,

[COLUMN 2]

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

MRS. C. E. DYE, 
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbon. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and 
price.	17, East Temple street.
	TEMPLE OF FASHION. 

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TO THE LADIES!

TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
GOODS, LADIES NECK TIES, and a full stock
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we
are selling very cheap.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonabio-
priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Finding and Kit at Moderate Rates.
	D.M. McAllister. Supt. 

LADIES.
If you want your husbands to have a good substantia.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
	29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1876.	NO. 22﻿.


For the EXPONENT.
			SONNET.

		BIRTHDAY THOUGHTS.

Year after year rolls down the stream of Time,
Propelling all unto the final goal,
Where eyes immortal view the emblazoned scroll
That error dims—or that with truth doth shine,
And which each prescient soul endorses "mine."
Oh! melting moment! when the quickened soul
Freed from mortality, and its control,
Can view the PAST and all its thrilling scenes,
And Life's biography at a glance can read!—
Its thrilling joys—its deathly woes—its themes
Of love and hope, its richness, and its need!
Its stern realities—and then its lulling dreams—
GOD, must prepare us for this glorious light,
For nothing mortal could endure the sight.

							HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, March 16, 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
APRIL HERALD OF SPRING.

Now April with its fresh perfume
 	Of fragrant air and gentle showers,
Scatters away the frost and gloom
 	That lingers from the winter hours.
And by the brook, or "moss-grown spring,"
 	Fond friends, or lovers, wander near;
Mellow and low the thrushes sing,
	To usher in the new-born year
Just opening to virgin life,
	Unconscious of the charms concealed—
The radiant bloom of Summer rife,
	When all earth's beauty is revealed.
Oh! springtime of the heart's true love,
	Promise of joy, and pleasure sweet,
Well may cooing of the dove
	Such tender wooing softly [-]reet
'Tis fitting time, the early Spring,
	Life's richest treasure to bestow,
While groves and woods with the music ring,
	And echoes answer soft and low.
		EMILE.
Salt Lake City, April 13, 1876.


For the Exponent.
		OBEDIENCE TO PARENTS.

	It seems to me that parents should, at all
times, and in all things, command respect
and love from their children and live in
such a manner that their children would al-
ways honor them. Some children when
they arrive at the age of maturity get high
notions into their heads, and consider them-
selves far superior to their parents, who
have cared for them in sickness and health,
and provided for them, perhaps depriving
themselves for their sakes. All children
should, when they are old enough consider
it their duty to help sustain, support and
comfort their parents in their declining
years, and let them know that their child-
ren's hearts are filled with gratitude for the
kind care they have bestowed upon them
in their youth.
	We are all children in one sense of the
word, and we should all strive to please our
earthly parents, and greatest of all conduct
ourselves in such a manner as will be pleas-
ing in the sight of our Heavenly Father.
							A. E. M.
	Pine Canyon, March 17, 1876.


THE Pawnee squaws have pin-backs, too;
and when they go shopping on a warm day
you can find nearly all their clothing on a
pin, back in a wigwam.


PRAYER.

	My essay will be addressed to the girls, as
I am a girl myself. I have made it a prac-
tice for years to pray to my Heavenly Fa-
ther night and morning, and I advise all
my young friends to do the same; the time
is coming and it is near at hand, when if
we want to be saved and enter into the
presence and glory of the Lord, we will
have to do better than we have been doing.
All those who do not pray have no idea
what sweet and heavenly thoughts prayer
gives to the mind, if they pray in faith.
Girls I would advise you to give heed to
the word of the Lord which is given through
our President Brigham Young, who by the
revelation of God has been appointed to
lead and instruct us. We should be very
thankful that there is a chance for us to be-
come celestial beings, if we so wish, by be-
ing faithful diligent and prayerful. Pray
to the Lord in faith and He will give heed
and give us great wisdom and enlighten
our minds to a very great extent, we can
gain more wisdom in this way than any
other, I know by experience. May the
Lord bless us all and may we young sisters,
follow in the footsteps of the Lord Jesus
our beloved elder brother. May we all be
prayerful, and faithful subjects to God our
Father, and live so that we may come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection with
all the blessings and privileges of the faith-
ful, is my constant prayer.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
							CORA C.


HONOR THY FATHER AND
			MOTHER.

	In the 20th chapter and 12th verse of Exo-
dus, we read the following words: "Honor
thy father and mother that thy days may be
long in the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee." This commandment the
Lord gave to Moses and his people and it is
just as obligatory on us to-day as it was in
the days of the children of Israel. How of-
ten I have noticed and heard remarked that
people who are raised in the old countries,
are well grounded in their parents faith,
they are taught in their early youth to be
obedient to those who may be placed over
them, this is indeed an example that we
ought to follow and practice.
	Sometimes I think we mothers are sloth-
ful and careless in performing our duties to
the little ones given in our charge; if we do
not teach them to be obedient and to
reverence the Lord's commandments, while
they are young, how can we expect that
when they are grown to riper years, they
will practice that which they have never
been taught? Does not the Scriptures say,
"Train up a child in the way it should go,
and when it is old it will not depart from
it?" We ought to teach our children the
ten commandments, the Lord's Prayer and
the principles of the Gospel as we under-
stand them; and everything that will bene-
fit them in after life and not leave every-
thing to be taught at schools.
	If children could but realize the blessings
they would reap and the happiness which


their parents would feel when they were
obedient to their wishes, there would be
none but would try and cultivate the spirit
of obedience. Where can we find a more
beautiful picture than an obedient child;
they carry a good influence with them
wherever they go, and are almost always
happy. The Lord said "I come unto thee
and bless thee," and He will come unto
those who serve Him and keep His com-
mandments.
	What do we see of those who are disobe-
dient, it is the reverse in all respects; they
carry pain instead of pleasure, and have a
heavy heart under a reckless exterior.
Nine cases out of ten where you may try
and counsel for their best good, they will
say "I don't care." How many men and wo-
men are there to-day who could tell us the
foundation of their troubles in life have
arisen from the simple words, "I don't care"
and from disobeying their parents in the
days of their youth?
				M. J. R. R. HAMPTON.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE Misses Muller, Max Muller's two
daughters, have passed successful examina-
tions at Oxford, in English, French, and
German.
	ELIZABETH Stuart Phelps contributes
regularly to the Atlantic and Independent.
Her Florida Sketches are specially enter-
taining, and give to those who wish to vis-
it there for their health, many useful hints
and suggestions.
	AN old record book of a church in Conn-
ecticut, dated 1702 contains the following:
"For making a noise in church, Ann Bol-
ton, spinster, is to sit three days in the poor
pew, and pay a fine of five shillings."
	MADAME Sand, although in the evening
of life, is still industrious in her literary la-
bors, in fact it is said she accomplishes as
much in that line now, as when she was in
her prime, and has not lost any of her pow-
ers to fascinate the general public.
	LUCY Larcom it is said, began to write
verses when only seven years old: the edi-
tor who published them, wrote they were
written under the inspiration of the "mu-
ses," but the compositor made the amusing
blunder of "nurses."
	THE English Minister at Washington,
Sir Edward Thornton, has some daughters
who are spoken of as models of young la-
dies, being the personifications of bloom
and health; they dress very plainly, wear
thick-soled shoes, plain dresses, no pin-
backs and when they go out, wear heavy,
old-fashioned cloaks.
	MRS. Lucy E. Burbeck, now ninety-four
years of age, is the widow of Gen. Henry
Burbeck of the Revolution. She receives a
quarterly pension from Hartford Conn., and
is still able to sign her own vouchers.


"How to make home happy"—Some
men do it by staying at home, and some by
going away.


171		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-op-
erative Retrenchment Association held in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, April 1st, 1876. Owing to the 
rather severe illness of President Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Miss Eliza R. Snow took charge
at the meeting. After the usual prelimi-
nary ceremonies, singing, prayer, etc., min-
utes were read by the young secretaries
from the various wards, which were ex-
ceedingly interesting, and showed percepti-
bly the marked improvement in these socie-
ties, and fully illustrated the benefit which
is being derived from the organizations. It 
is producing a unity and good feeling
among the people, and developing in them
gems of thought and expression, which are
elevating and inspiring and cannot but pro-
duce good results. Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Zina D. Young, and several other able
and intelligent sisters addressed the meet-
ing their religion. The silk culture and 
straw business were largely descanted upon.
There was a very good specimen of a silk
handkerchief shown, which had been man-
ufactured here from the raw material. The 
attendance was not so large as at some pre-
vious meetings, but a good spirit prevailed,
and all present were benefitted, comforted
and instructed.

AMERICAN FORK, Feb 22d, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The annual meeting of the Young La-
dies' Mutual Improvement Association of 
this place was held Feb. 22d, 1876.
	A general invitation was extended to all,
and the meeting was largely attended. Es-
says were read and selections from good 
books. The discourses were spirited and 
full of principle, and were interspersed
with singing. All seemed to enjoy them-
selves very much. Bishop L. E. Harring-
ton being present gave us some very good 
advice.
	Great interest is taken in the meetings,
and we look forward to them with pleasure.
Our society has increased in numbers very
rapidly, and a good spirit prevails, and also
a spirit of improvement is apparent.
	Wishing success to all the faithful, we 
remain your sisters,
	Mrs. J. Durrant,
	"	E. Eastmond,	Superintendents.
	Miss M. Eastmond, President,
		E. CROMPTON, Sec'y.

NORTH OGDEN, WEBER Co.
	March 20, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Retrenchment Association was or-
ganized the 24 of March 1875, since that 
time we have held 17 meetings, and we are
happy to say there is a gradual improve-
ment in the sisters in their search after
knowledge; and we have cause to rejoice
that we are so organized that we can meet
together and speak to each other on the 
principles pertaining to life and salvation.
	The young men also have been organized
into a Mutual Improvement Association,
they are making steady progress, and are
united with the younger sisters in abstaining
from round dances, which we voted against
in our association some six months ago, and
to which, we are happy to say, we have re-
mained firm up to the present.
	Eva Chadwick, President, Elizabeth
Chadwick, and Emily Knowles, Counsel-
ors.

[COLUMN 2]

SMITHFIELD MARCH 1st, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONEMT
	A reorganization took place in our Re-
trenchment Society Feb. 12, 1876. Bishop
Samuel Roskelly and a few other brethren
met with us, organized the society and gave
us some very good instruction.  Officers as 
follows:
	Mrs. Adeline Barber, President,
	"	Jane S. Coleman,
	"	Mary J. Roskelly,
	"	Elizabeth M. Merrill,
	"	Mary E. Morriston,
	Miss Mary A. Thomas,		Counselors
	"	Emily S. Lutz,
	"	Rebecca Roskelly,
	"	Annie Smith,
	Sarah E. Layton, Secretary,
	Janet Hendrickson, Treasurer,
	Our former Treasurer, Miss Mary Cole-
man, was released to go on the Arazona
Mission. There are 118 members in our
Society. We have made a nice crochet bed-
spread to send to the Centennial; we also
have a considerable amount of straw and 
have commenced braiding. We hold our
meetings weekly; one week to work, the 
next to instruct each other; a good spirit
prevails, and all seem to be trying to im-
prove. Our resolutions are as follows:
	1. Resolved: That we attend our meet-
ings as regularly as possible, not allowing
any trifles to keep us away.
	2. Resolved: That we will not counten-
ance any rude or unlady-like conduct in
any of the members of our society
	3. Resolved: That we will not associate
or keep company with young men who
swear, and drink liquor.
	4. Resolved. That our clothing shall be
the workmanship of our own hands, as 
much as possible, and not follow the extrav-
agant fashions of the Gentiles.
	5. Resolved: That we will not scandalize
a person's character; if we cannot say any-
thing good, we will say nothing at all.
	6. Resolved: That we will be kind and 
charitable to the poor and the needy, and to 
all with whom we are surrounded.
	7. Resolved: That we will strictly ob-
serve the "Word of Wisdom, that we m[-]y
be entitled to the promise attached to it.
	8, Resolved: That we will read the rev-
eleations and commandments given to the 
Saints, and the promises attached to those
who prove faithful.
	9. Resolved: That we will attend to se-
cret prayer, and try to be useful members
in the Kingdom of God.
	SARAH E. LAYTON Sec'y.

CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., March 27, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am happy to state that our Relief So-
ciety is progressing, we have started sever-
al branches of HOME INDUSTRY that are
doing real well, and have many more in
contemplation. The winter has been very
severe here, but we have had meetings
every two weeks (with I think one or two
exceptions) which have been well attended.
A great many renewed their covenants dur-
ing the past summer, and all seem to be try-
ing to live nearer to God, and carry out the 
instructions given by His servants.
	The Young Ladies' Association has a 
beneficial effect among our young people,
their meetings are also well attended and a 
good spirit prevails.
	Praying the Lord to bless and strength-
en you in your labors, I remain your sister
in the Gospel.
	M. A. LUNT.

[COLUMN 3]

SALT LAKE CITY, March,— 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 11th Ward Relief Society is progress-
ing and doing much good; the poor in the 
ward are cared for and the sick attended to.
We meet together to make warm clothing
for the aged, the poor, and the Lamanites.
We do not want any to suffer, whether Jew
or Gentile. The Teachers look after the 
poor and see that no one suffers. Our Bish-
op and Counselors meet with us occasion-
ally and give us a word of encouragement,
and ask God to bless us in the good work,
and tell us that we are a great help to them
in looking after the needy.
	The society has helped to build the 11th
Ward New Meeting House, and when calls
are made for missionaries or anything else,
we are ready to aid in helping. A great
number have been baptized and renewed
their covenants. We feel the spirit of the 
Lord in our meetings and great love for 
each other. Our sisters met and made
clothing and bedding etc., and gave more
than one hundred dollars worth to the sis-
ters and children who have gone to Arizona
on missions.
	I know this is the work of God, and feel
happy and proud to be a member of the 
Relief and Retrenchment Societies for they
are blessed and doing much good.
	I will give you a report of the Relief So-
ciety disbursements from the 19th of April
1869, to Dec. 31, 1875.
Relief to the poor.................... $ 1,431 26
Donated to New School House.... 381 18
Emigrating the poor..................... 145 90
Missionary donations....................	32 75
Share in Co-op Store.....................	80 00
Land bought for the Society......... 251 19
	Total............   ................. $2,259 19
		MARIA BIDGOOD Sec'y.


IMPROVEMENT.

	WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE
		THE YOUNG LADIES' ANNUAL
			MEETING OF AM. FORK.

	My young sisters it has fallen to my lot
to present before you a few of my thoughts
in writing. In endeavoring to compose the
same, I feel my lack of experience and
ability to prepare anything that will be
adapted to the occasion. We are engaged
in a very good and great work, that of im-
provement, hence I have selected that as a
subject, and although much has been writ-
ten upon it, still I think there is room for
more.
	Improvement is a very comprehensive
word and applies to all the relations and du-
ties of life. I will speak more particularly
of our condition and circumstances; we are
mostly young, and in many respects lack
the experience of our parents and older
persons. Thus it is necessary for us to lis-
ten to their advice and instructions, and by
their experience, we may avoid much that
is evil. We need to improve our minds,
our persons, our habits, and our language.
We should improve in true politeness, so-
cially and morally. As members of the
church and professors of the Gospel, we
should improve in the spiritual graces and
qualify ourselves to adorn the profession we
make, and thus bear testimony to all, that
we love virtue and truth. If we faithfully
carry out the purposes of our Association
we will be diligent in our duties, in attend-
ing the meetings, and in listening to the
instructions given us. With the blessings
of the Lord we mean to improve.
					J. HEREINGTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	172


WHAT ARE WE MEN TO DO?

	BY R. W. EASTERBROOKS.

When female architects abound,
	Who skilfully design and plan—
When female builders can be found
	Whose work will vie with that of man—
When female skippers have command
	Of female ship and female crew—
When female warriors fill our land,
	What is there left for males to do?

When women shall the gospel preach;
	When women clerks infest each store;
When women diplomats shall reach
	High seats within the White House door;
When tiny hands receive the pence
	On city cars, and stages too,
What, in the name of common sense,
	Is left for outcast men to do?

"Why not exchange?" says thoughtless wight,
	Hush! senseless man—you only rant—
We would, with pleasure, if we might,
	But God has fixed it so we can't.
The babies must be borne and nursed
	By female mothers: therefore, few
Of gentler mold can e'er be cursed
	With what we dread—no work to do.


FLORAL HINTS.

	INSECTS IN PLANTS:—To prevent insects
from troubling plants, take one ounce of
carbonate of ammonia, one half ounce of
sulphuric acid, and mix together, (this forms
sulphate of ammonia) then add one drachm
of creosote and put all into two gallons of
rain water; pour into each pot about one
gill once a month; this keeps them from
the roots besides being a good manure.
Once or twice a week give the plants a
thorough drenching with luke warm water,
which keeps them from the leaves, it also
washes off the dust which is sure to accu-
mulate; keep the earth loose in the pots,
and occasionally work in a little powdered
charcoal, or leached ashes, but only occas-
ionally. Saturate sponges with water and
stand them on plates around and among the
window plants. This will supply moisture
to neutralize the effects of any furnace or
grate heat.
	The cultivation of the Cactus is in gener-
al very easy; any common soil with the ad-
dition of sand, broken brick or gritty stone,
to keep the soil open with a good drainage
for the pots, and careful watering at all
times; the plants suffer more from too much
water than if allowed to become dry. All
the different species of Cactus, are natives
of arid soil; with scarcely an exception, if
allowed to become quite dry in winter, a
temperature just above freezing will do no
injury: many of the large species require
no water for several months in winter; if
grown in a low temperature; these will
usually flower in the summer.
	The variety of Cactus bearing pink flow-
ers, grows rapidly, blooms profusely, and
can be set in the cellar during winter, and
repays one abundantly for all trouble; for
soil for the several varieties, use well rot-
ted cow-manure, dry it and pulverize it,
pound up a brick very fine, add some sand,
and the dirt from old sods, and they will
be very sure to succeed; it is a plant that
will bear a great deal of neglect.
	THE cultivation of the violet is similar
to that of the strawberry, if the violets are
planted in rows and ridged up a little they
will grow luxuriantly and bloom more
abundantly, It is well to set out fresh beds
of them every year, the suckers can be re-
moved early in the spring, when the old
plants are in full bloom, and these beds will
blossom all the winter. If the locality is
very cold they will require some protection,
from the frost, and the beds should be cov-


ered with a frame and sash, and well pro-
tected by mattings and banked up with sta-
ble litter. Violets can be grown in pots,
and brought into the house when they are
covered with flowers, but they will not live
long in a furnace-heated room or where
there is much sunlight, only sufficient
warmth to keep them from chilling is need-
ful for their growth.


[Column 1]
	THE ENGLISH PRINCIPALITY OF
			WALES FOUNDED.

	FEBRUARY 7, 1301.—Llewelyn, the last
native Prince of Wales, had been a partizan
of De Montfort in the Barons' war against
Henry III., and although he was included
in the pacification made in 1267, it was ac-
companied by the condition that he should
do homage for his principality to England.
Accordingly, when Edward I. became king
he was summoned to do so, but he declined,
unless he had hostages given for his safety,
saying that he remembered the fate of his
father, Griffin, who had been imprisoned in
the Tower, and was killed in trying to make
his escape. The demand was treated as
an insult, and Eleanor de Montfort, who
was about to marry Llewelyn, was seized
and imprisoned, although she was the
king's cousin. Llewelyn in vain offered a
ransom for her; his lands were declared to
be forfeited, and after a brief campaign, in
1277 he was obliged to submit. Having
formally surrendered all his territory except
the mountain regions of Snowdon and the
Isle of Anglesey, for which he was to pay
an annual tribute of 1,000 marks, his bride
was delivered to him, and he returned to
Wales; but made to bear the oppressions of
the royal officer who had been put in pos-
session of his lands. He took up arms in
1282, destroyed some of their castles, and
carried off Roger de Clifford, the justiciary,
who died a prisoner in his hands. He also
inflicted a severe defeat on the English
forces as they attempted to cross the Con-
way, but was soon after betrayed to the
Marches, and killed in cold blood. His
brother David, who attempted to continue
the hopeless struggle; had to surrender, and
was condemned as a traitor and executed,
September 20, 1283. He and Llewelyn
both left motherless daughters, who were
sent to a nunnery in Lincolnshire, where
Llewelyn's child at least was alive in 1327;
how much longer is not known.
	Soon after the execution of David, the
victor held a parliament at Rhuddlan, where
was enacted what was called the Statue of
Wales. After an acknowledgement of the
Divine providence that had now given him
in full possession what had always right-
fully been his, the king, "at the prayer of
his loving subjects," allows them to retain
their ancient laws in civil causes, but sub-
stitutes the English criminal law, and ap-
points sheriffs, coroners, and bailiffs for the
greater part of North Wales; the rest of
the country after some strong towns had
been taken from them, was left in the hands
of the Lords Marchers, who from the time
of William the Conqueror had been en-
gaged in one ceaseless course of aggression
on the Welsh, and thus were far more
odious to the people than the royal officers
themselves. They were, in fact, an object
of jealous suspicion to the king, and he
built many strong castles in Wales, at Caer-
narvon, Conway, and Harlech in the north,
and Cilgarran and Carphilly in the south;
and settled English Colonists in several of
the towns, quite as much as a check on
them as on the natives.
	The king set to work to conciliate the

[Column 2]
people through their clergy. He bestowed
marked favor on Anian, a bishop, who
gave him a piece of "the true cross," and
paid considerable sums to churches that had
been plundered during the war; he also
granted freedom from tolls throughout his
dominions to several of the chief towns. But
in spite of these advances, an insurrection
broke out in 1287, and though it was soon
put down and the leader (Rhysap Meredith,
of the old princely line) hanged, Edward
thought it wise to let the valor of the
Welsh exhaust itself in his foreign wars;
thus anticipating the policy of the elder
Pitt with the Highlanders. Other mon-
archs followed his example, and even as late
as the time of Elizabeth, the "Welsh foot"
bore, as a separate body, no inconsiderable
part in the English armies.


OBEDIENCE.

	ESSAY READ BEFORE THE Y. L. M. I.
		A. OF AM. FORK, Feb. 6, 1876.

	Dear sisters I am happy in meeting with
you to-night on this the first anniversary
of our organization. I have chosen the
subject of obedience and have tried to write
a few words on this great and glorious prin-
ciple. Believing what the Psalmist David
said to be true, namely; that "obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than
the fat of rams," I have endeavored to
comply with the request made, to exchange
a few thoughts in this way, with you my
young sisters. I think to-night would be a
very good time for each one of us to take
into consideration how much, and how far,
we have been obedient during the past year?
Has my father or mother asked anything of
me that I have not complied with? Have
my leaders in this society required anything
of me that I have refused to try and do?
Have my sisters or brothers sought a kind-
ness at my hand that I have denied, which
would have resulted in good? Or has the
Priesthood given any general instruction
during the past year that I have not felt
willing to carry out? If such is the case
with any of us, we had better cultivate the
spirit of obedience, for if we cannot obey
in little things we shall fail in larger ones.
If the maxim is true; that "the boy makes
the man," I maintain that the girl makes
the woman, and if the girlhood is charac-
terized by virtue and obedience, the wo-
manhood will be rewarded, at least by a
happy reflection of the past, and bright
hopes for the future, when justice will be
meted out to all. Then dear sisters, let us
be encouraged to obey all commands that
are for our good, remembering that with-
out obedience we can never return to the
immediate presence of our Heavenly Fath-
er. One of our best poets says, "obedience
is the common lot of all. No being is ex-
empt. Not even God." And if that
glorious, powerful Personage who holds the
Universe in His hands is not free from the
law of Obedience, I ask is poor mortal im-
perfect man? No Verily No.
						E. J. DURANT.


POETRY and romance are often spoken of
as things of mere fancy wanting substance.
Yet there is nothing more real than the poe-
try of nature itself, and nothing sweeter.
sadder, or more sublime than the romance
which may be traced through every-day
practical life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE R. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00, per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1876.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	How to economize time, how to make the
best use of every moment, and how to find mo-
ments enough to accomplish all she desires, is
one of the most important questions with the
young housekeeper, or the young lady who
wishes to acquire a practical knowledge of
housekeeping.
	When a young girl wishes to assist in the
duties of the household, and yet have fixed
hours for other things, she should choose those
departments which are independent of others;
such as doing up her own collars and muslins,
taking care of her bed room, trimming the
lamps and making them ready for use, waiting
on the table, washing up the dishes after sup-
per, and many other things that can be quickly
disposed, and leave her at leisure for other em-
ployments. Where it is necessary, however,
to co-operate with others, this should be done
agreeably, and private arrangements should be
made to accord. If required to make cake or
pies, and it can be done before breakfast, there
is a great saving of time in this; as by rising a
little earlier than usual it may be accomplished
without sacrificing any of the customary oc-
cupations. The proper dress for the business
can be put on at once, and time may be saved
in that way also.
	At breakfast, a grown-up daughter should re-
lieve her mother of the trouble of presiding,
and by giving her mind to the subject and
learning all her mother's ways, make it agree-
able to her to resign the office. Some young
ladies, who are earnest to be of use and take
some of their mothers' duties on themselves,
by not entering into the true spirit of the bus-
iness and learning to do things in the best
way, render their services unacceptable. And
far from being conscious that the fault is in
themselves, they blame their mothers for not
allowing them to share their burdens. And
again, some mothers are at fault in these
things. It is a mistaken kindness for a moth-
er to excuse her daughter from all participation
in the work of the house, and it is mistaken
economy for her to prefer always to attend to
the most particular portions of the work her-
self, rather than trust them to her daughter or
take the trouble of teaching her. But, as we
have before shown, the daughter should take
an individual interest, and by being deter-
mined and exact, make her mother feel well
in relinquishing some of the more important
cares of the household.
	Delicacy and neatness may be shown in the
manner of handling cups or plates, and in
helping persons to the simplest fare at the
humblest board. A thousand little niceties
will occur to the girl who gives due attention
to the subject, and resolves to accomplish do-


mestic duties with the thrift of a good house-
keeper, and the ease and dignity of a refined
lady. When once good habits are acquired in
this department, it will require less attention,
and things will always be done in the best way
without the necessity of much thought being
bestowed upon them. Discipline or the want
of it is much the same in all departments of
human proceedings. As in writing, a good
scholar spells correctly without thinking, a
poor one incorrectly without knowing it, just
so are household duties performed by the edu-
cated or uneducated housewife.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	Forty-Sixth Annual Conference, of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
convened in the New Tabernacle in this city
on the morning of April sixth 1876. There
were present, President Brigham Young,
Daniel H. Wells, several of the "Twelve"
and most of the other presidents and counsel-
ors of quorums of the church. It was an unu-
sually large conference and the ceremonies
preaching, praying and singing were excellent
and in direct correspondence with the spirit of
reformation and HOME-MANUFACTURE. Presi-
dent Young in addressing the people, urged
them to live their religion, to observe the laws
pertaining to the kingdom of God, and espec
ially to exert themselves to aid in building the
Temple. There were many excellent sermons
preached and much instruction given by the
Twelve, and other Elders, some of whom had
just returned from missions. Conference
adjourned Sunday evening the 9th of April and
until the 6th of October 1876.
	MR. P. S. Gilmore's band performed in the
theatre Wednesday evening Apr. 12, and in the
New Tabernacle Apr. 13, in the afternoon.
The concerts were decidedly the finest ever
given in Salt Lake. Programmes varied and
extensive. We have neither space or ability
to enlarge upon this subject. They drew full
houses and were thoroughly appreciated. Mr.
Levy the cornet player, cannot be surpassed.
The bewitching and fascinating music he pours
forth is something really wonderful. This
"troupe" is the finest trained, and surpasses
any other of the kind in America. Their ser-
vices are secured for the Centennial Exposi-
tion.
	THROUGH THE courtesy of Mrs. W. East, we
received the news of the sudden death of Mrs.
Diana Greer Camp, who died at the residence
of her daughter, Mrs. Ellen Greer, in Bosque
Co., Texas, while absent on a visit to her
friends in that vicinity, on Saturday the 18th,
of March, 1876. She left this city in company
with Mr. and Mrs. East, well and in good
spirits Nov. 8th, 1875. On the journey, and
during her stay in Texas, she was full of faith,
and bore an earnest testimony to all she met of
the Gospel, and departed this life in full faith;
her only regret being that she must die far
from her home, from those she loved, and the
faithful Saints. The day previous to her death
she had been assisting at quilting, and retired
to bed in her usual apparent health. She awak-
ened the family at eleven o'clock and died
about two hours after, peaceably and without a
struggle, her friends for some time thinking
her asleep. Previous to her death she exhort-
ed her children to gather with the Saints, and
prepare for the resurrection of the just.
	Deceased was born at Sumner Co., Tenn.,
Nov. 28th, 1806; emigrated to Nauvoo with her
husband and family in 1843, where she em-
braced the Gospel, and was baptized by Elder

[Column 2]
John Taylor. She leaves quite a large family
of children and grand-children to mourn her
loss.							COM.]
	POWER EXPLOSION: Wednesday, April 5th,
1876, will probably be ever memorable in Salt
Lake City, as a day of fearful disaster. Shortly
before 5 o'clock p. m., the magazines on Arsen-
Hill exploded, with three tremendous shocks
shaking the whole city and country for miles
around. The first not wholly subsided before
another and still louder noise followed, and
quickly following a third still louder and hea-
vier shock came. People rushed wildly in
every direction, teams ran hither and yon, the
largest and strongest buildings swayed to
and fro, ceilings fell, doors were burst from
their fastenings, glass flew in all directions.
In the upper wards of the city, showers of
rocks, large and small, and other material de-
scended, crushing through roofs and plough-
ing into gardens and streets. Many women
fainted, and even strong men were horrified,
but providentially only four lives were taken
of which any positive knowledge has been ob-
tained. The victims of the catastrophe were Mrs.
Mary Jane Van Natta, of the 19th ward who
was pumping water at the well, when a bould-
er struck her in the back, killing her instantly,
horribly crushing and mangling her. The rock
had been thrown at least three quarters of a
mile from the magazine. A boy three years and
a hal[-] old in the 20th ward, James H. Radden
was struck by a rock and instantly killed. The
two boys who were killed near the spot, and the
firing of whose guns it is supposed was the cause
of this lamentable affair, were Richardson and
Hill, the former, the son of Dr. Darwin Rich-
ardson deceased, and Mrs. Grace Richardson of 
14th ward, was 18 years of age. The other
was the son of Archibald and Margaret Hill,
19th ward, 16 years of age. The bodies of these
boys were blown all to pieces, and the parts
have not been all found as yet.
	Charles Johnson, 19th ward, Mrs. PeterThomason, 20th ward, Mrs. Dahlquist, 19th.
ward, were severely injured, but not fatally.
David P. Kimball's (18th ward) little boy had
the tip of his ear taken off by a piece of rock.
	We have not space to give more particulars,
but the damage cannot be accurately estima-
ted: most of the loss was in glass—many large
French plate glass windows being destroyed in
many different public and private buildings.
	It is greatly to be hoped that this fearful oc-
currence will cause people to reflect and not
only make them cautio[-]s in the use and stor-
age of powerful inflammable materials; but, al-
so to prepare themselves for whatever exigen-
cies future life may bring. This wonderful
catastrophe is at present the general topic of
conversation, and probably will be for some
time to come.


MRS. M. I. HORNE'S LETTER,

			(CONTINUED.)

	Leaving Evanston, I had a very cold sleigh-
ride over to Paris, where I arrived safe and
well after a two day's ride, and found my
children all well, but very anxious about me;
they have had a very un[-]sual stormy winter;
I noticed that the snow had drifted over the
fences, so that in going to a house you would
have to walk over the tops of the fences and
go through deep cuts. Paris has improved
since I was there a year and a half ago; several
new buildings have been put up. They have
two day schools, and their Sunday school is
well conducted and attended. I visited their
Sabbath school and by the invitation of the


[Column 1]
superintendent Bro. Hodge, made a few re-
marks to the children, on obedience to  parents,
respect to their teachers, and good behavior.
On the 3rd of February, I met with the Relief
Society. President Rich, and Bishops Budge
and Horne met with us, much useful instruc-
tion was imparted, the brethren giving encour-
agement to the sisters. On the 7th of Febru-
ary I was blest with another little grandson,
my twenty-seventh grandchild. As soon as I
could leave my daughter, I was invited to vis-
it St. Charles. I met with the Relief Society
in the afternoon; the Bishop and several breth-
ren were present. The spirit of Go[-] was poured
out upon the speakers, both brethren and sis-
ters. In the evening I met with the Young
Ladies' Society; there were a great many more
brethren present in the evening, and we had
an excellent meeting.
	The next day I went to Bloomington; two
sleigh loads went with me from St. Charles; I
experienced some of the difficulties of travel-
ing in the winter, there was only one beaten
track, and the snow was several feet deep.
When we met a loaded team we had to turn
out of the road to let them pass, as soon as the
horses stepped off the road, down they went as
if they were going to be covered up, plunging
and jumping to extricate themselves, while the
riders were climbing to the tops of the sleighs
to keep from upsetting. When the poor hors-
es got on the track again they were sweating
and panting, this occurred three times in a
distance of six miles. When we arrived at
Bloomington, the Bishop and several of the
brethren were gathered with the Relief Society
ready for meeting. After the sisters got
through speaking, the Bishop made some ex-
cellent remarks. The next week the sisters in-
vided me to organize the young ladies. We
met and I organized them into a Retrench-
ment Association on Thursday of the next
week. The house was well filled with the
brethren and sisters; their worthy Bishop being
present. Much good instruction was given, af-
ter the organization was over, by Bishop Os-
mond and several of the other brethren.
	On the Saturday following I met with and
organized the young ladies of Paris into a Re-
trenchment Association. President Rich and
Bishop Budge with several other brethren were
present, we had a very interesting time to-
gether, President Rich giving a great deal of
good counsel and excellent advice to them.
the Bishop also expressed great satisfaction
with the organization, offering to meet with
them and give counsel at any time, if they
wished him to do so. There having been some
misunderstanding about the time of meeting,
just as we dismissed, several sleigh, loads of
people drove up from Bloomington to attend
the meeting, but they were too late. I felt
humbled almost to tears to see the interest the
brethren as well as the sisters manifested,
wherever I held meetings. Much prejudice
was removed with regard to the sisters meet-
ing together in the capacity of Relief Societies.
Whenever I was invited to meet with the sis-
ters, I prayed that the Lord would give me
such words as the people most needed, and
when the Bishops and brethren would say
they had been instructed and edified, I felt
that my labors had not been in vain. Truly
the Lord poured out His spirit upon me, and
as a mother in Israel I tried to discharge my
duty, in counseling and instructing the sisters
on the responsibilities that devolve upon them
as wives and mothers, and as members of Re-
lief Societies. Also to sustain HOME MANU-
FACTURES, and help build up the kingdom of
God. I advised them not to send East for
trashy literature, but instead subscribe for the

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, which would give
them information from other parts of the Ter-
ritory.
	I cannot tell you half of my experience here,
in this letter. I have enjoyed my labors and
duties, and trust that I have sown some good
seed.
	With prayers and best wishes for all who are
interested in the building up of the Kingdom
of God.
	I am as ever your Sister in the Gospel of
Peace,
							M. I. HORNE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	174


[COLUMN 1]

LETTERS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have just returned from a very pleasant
trip to Spanish Fork, and thinking some items
might be interesting, I have endeavored to pre-
sent a few of the main incidents of my stay
in as brief a manner as possible.
	The first thing that attracts a stranger's at-
tention is the length, North and South, of the
village. But the houses in the main, look
clean and comfortable. We were very hosipt-
ably received and entertained by Mrs. Rochill;
but I discovered that one of my friends was
there, also, on a visit to her mother. So, as she
pressed me very kindly to go and stay with
her, I changed my quarters.
	The next day being the Sabbath, we pre-
pared to attend Church. I was quite agreeably
disappointed in finding so nice a meeting-
house. You enter quite a roomy hall and go
from there either up to the gallery or in the
main part of the building. It is finished off
very neatly and prettily on the inside, and
speaks very highly indeed for the taste and en-
ergy of the inhabitants of Spanish Fork. The
singing was excellent, and the preaching good.
In the evening we attended and listened to a
most stirring and eloquent sermon from a
young Elder.
	Next day we attended the regular weekly
meeting of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Society which was well conducted by Miss
Maria Finch, (the Pres. Miss Warren, being on
a visit to Springville.) The house was tolera-
bly full, and there seemed to be an earnest
thoughtful spirit prevailing. Several of the
brethren met with the sisters that day, and
Bro. Wilkins gave them some excellent in-
struction. They have a weekly paper, and the
one I heard read was a fair specimen of intelli-
gence. One of the young ladies reads a chap-
ter from the Book of Mormon, and then ex-
plains it according to her ideas. The young
sisters seem to realize to a great degree the im-
portance of the work they are engaged in.
	I received numberless invitations to visit the
different families, and most heartily thank all
the friends I made while there, for their
kindness and hospitality to me. Charlie was
always ready to take us in his two-seated
buggy, and I appreciated his kindness thor-
oughly; while I think I never have met with a
more sociable and cheerful people. Bro. Cor-
naby kindly took us to see his bee-hives,
showed us the inside of one and pointed out
the queen. He also initiated us into the sys-
tem of silk raising, and kept us supplied with
honey all the time we were there. He and
his lovely wife, the gifted poetess, entertained
us so well, that we were loth to leave a home
where peace held such dominion. May Heav-
en's choicest blessings rest on that refined and
gentle couple.
	I must also mention Mrs. Morey and her
daughter, and can truly say that they are two
of the most accomplished hostesses I ever met.
	One thing especially I noticed in this settle-

[COLUMN 2]

ment, is the number of families where plural-
ity of wives is practiced. I can say with truth
that I never heard of any unhappiness in their
midst. One family I must mention in particu-
lar, where there are eight wives. Two live out
on a farm and manufacture all the butter and
cheese, while the other six live in one large
house in the town. They form quite a little
world of themselves. They told me they had
lived happily in plurality ever since they were
married. They have a loom in the house,
weave their own cloth, make up themselves
what they require for use, and sell the surplus;
in fact, to sum up the whole, they are thor-
oughly independent. They have over thirty
children living in the house; and well-behaved,
nice, smart good-looking children they are too.
I sincerely hope the time will soon come when
we will all live together as peaceably as this
family.
	I had the privilege of signing a woman's pe-
petion, for the suppression, or limitation of
selling spirituous liquors. I trust they will
meet with entire success.
	"Annty" and I were very unwilling to come
home so soon, but we were obliged to do so.
	There are a great many more things I might
speak about, but I have occupied space enough,
and will close my letter, hoping that the good
people of Spanish Fork may always have
plenty of bread, butter, honey and peaches,
whenever it is my happy lot to be in their
cozy town. I remain,
	Respectfully,
		A. B. D.


ESSAY ON UNITY.

	By the united efforts of the people na-
tions rise, and become powerful; by devia-
tion and discord they fall and crumble to
pieces. Jesus prayed that his disciples,
might be one with Him, as He was one
with the Father. Thus we see it is neces-
sary for the people of God to be united to
carry on the work of God. It is by the
unity of the Latter-day Saints that they
have been able to stand the persecution of
the enemy, and build up the kingdom of
God in these the latter-days. By their
united efforts, and the blessing of God at-
tending them, they have made Utah which
was once a barren desert, to become a beau-
tiful field, all that has been accomplished
has been by the Saints united faith and con-
fidence in God. If God was to suffer their
union to be broken, they could not accom-
plish anything.
	Dear sisters, what can we do to help build
up the kingdom of God? We can do a
great deal if we are united. God has in-
spired His servants to cause these associa-
tions to be organized in order that we young
girls may be trained according to His will,
and forsake the pride and vanity of Baby-
lon. Then let us with one heart and one
mind unite together and carry out those
instructions which are calculated to benefit
and bless us.

	How joyful and pleasant when sisters agree,
	Bound closely together in sweet unity-
		S. L. City, March 29, 1876.
								SARAH.


SCENE at a butcher's stand: Butcher—
"Come, John, be lively now; break the
bones in Mrs. William's chops, and put Mr.
Smith's ribs in the basket for him." John,
(briskly)—"All right, sir, just as soon as
I've sawed off Mrs. Murphy's leg."


175		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				THOUGHTS.

		"Our early days!—How often back
		We turn on life's bewildering track
		To where o'er hill and valley, plays
		The sunlight of our early days!"

	In looking back over our past lives we see
many bright and happy periods, sunshine
and rainbow hues, and tints and shades of
loveliness, and glad hours of joy and rest.
We cannot help contrasting these with the
time, the place and the happy moments;
the friends of other days, the places we oc-
cupied together, the studies, the amuse-
ments we shared, the scenes of beauty we
admired—all these throng the minds with
their accompaniments, and we pause and al-
most hold our breath, as we wonder where
are they now? Those friends of the past,
the companions of other days who strolled
with us through the grand old forests, and
sat beside us on the mossy rocks under the
shade of the graceful bending hemlocks,
and the grandeur of the giant elms: buoy-
ant and gay with hope in the spring-time
of life, when all the world seemed glowing
with enthusiastic aspirations which emana-
ted from the fresh fountains of our own Joy-
ous hearts. Then we saw only the beauty,
the sweetness of life, the honied odor of
the morning fragrance; the rosy tints of the
rising dawn, and we gazed in awe and won-
der, while around us the morning light en-
circled in a mellow halo all that we held
dearest and best.
	This is the season which best represents
the entering of the soul into that ideal life,
before the hard realities burst in upon us,
in the blaze of meridan splendor. Wel-
come fresh d[-]wy and propitious Spring!
We hail thee as the harbinger of the prom-
ise of plenty and comfort. With thy ap-
proach comes the soft and tender touch of
zephyrs, the harmonious songs of birds, the
hum of myriads of busy insects, the chirp of
the cricket, the ploughman's whistle, the
morning song of the laborer, the trill of the
flower girl. These melodies are wafted by
thy balmy breath, O glorious Spring! These
rambling thoughts bring back to us, the
very hills we climbed in merry pastime,
with the bright sky beyond, which we
could almost fancy rested on some towering
mountain in the distance, and our young
tender minds could scarcely conjecture the
great and sublime mysteries which involve
life and destiny. Every returning Spring
brings with it some of the pleasing hopes
and dreams of childhood. Alas! Only in rec-
ollection.
	When the mind and body seem exhaust-
ed with the continued exertion of striving
against cold and inclemency, and these
sunny hours inspire them with their recur-
ring freshness, we seem to grow even
younger, and all our faculties are quickened
under the genial influence of the warmth,
radiance and friendliness of the beams
of the Sovereign planet of the Universe.
	Who has not felt the invigorating influ-
ence of the beginning of Spring? The faint
silvery warblings of the thrush and song-
sparrow, heard over the dreary and almost
bare fields, the cooing of the song-birds for
their mates; these musical notes fall on the
ear with a peculiar and significant pathos.
The very brooks sing gay carols and joyous
glees, as they leap and bound over their
shining pebbly beds. The melancholy frogs
croak more cheerfully and incessantly at
the water's edge, and the sound is almost
welcome as it fortells the coming of the
beautiful virgin, whose approach is herald-
ed with verdure, buds and blossoms. The
whole earth seems to partake of the silent
language of nature, and everywhere bursts

[Column 2]
forth in harmony to the time, and with sym-
pathetic chorus joins in the universal glad-
ness which ascends to heaven in one grand
anthem of rejoicing from meadow, grove,
mountain and forest, from all animate and
inanimate creations.
	Methinks I hear some prosy, matter-of-
fact practical people, as they glance casu-
ally at this, exclaim, this is a hackneyed
subject, a very school-girl's strain—and
why not, must we forever be stretching our
ideas, and reaching into the abstruse regions
of reason and philosophy—the mind must
sometimes rest itself with happier topics,
what if it does float for a few short hours in
the bright atmosphere of dreamy fancies?
Solids cannot always be taken, there must
be some recreation of thought, or we
should be weighed down with the burden
of our heavy theories. When we have
strolled 'mid nature's bowers and drank in
the exhilaration of the freshening elemen-
tary compound, every faculty of mind seems
braced and strengthened, and the vigor and
tone of our intellect simultaneously heigh-
tened.
	It is delightful to wander back in vision
to similar seasons in the "long ago;" to com-
pare the thoughts of other days with the
present, and trace in and out through the
intricate and elaborate windings, the rou-
tine of our lives from that early period, to
the one in which we now live and act.
	We are thus constrained to remember in-
cidents in which, a special Providence was
our only safeguard. It is good for us to
have these reflections, they teach us useful
lessons, help us to bear other sorrows
and perplexities, and give us faith in the
future, and simplicity of trust in that pro-
tecting arm that has shielded and comfort-
ed our hearts while resting under the dark
shadows of the clouds of human weakness.
We come forth in the Spring buoyant with
hope, gloom seems dispelled by the sun's
rays, the nurse of nature; and is he not a
tender and genial one? All things grow bet-
ter under his radiant influence.
	All who have been made to feel the icy
hand of winter cramping their freedom of
action and of purpose, constrained to find
resources of comfort and pleasure within
some certain circle of warmth, cannot but
realize a renovating reaction physically,
and mentally when the Spring puts forth,
and the young buds shoot, the grass springs
up in the meadows and lawns, and the
smiling face of nature cheers the dreary
landscape. The universal desolation of
Winter so affects the mind which sympa-
thizes so truly with outside influences that
it is almost as vacant of joy and bright ideas
as the forest is of leaves and the groves of
song. When April and May reign and the
shifting from Winter to Summer, we un-
consciously, momentarily give care to the
winds, and revel in the potency of the per-
vading stimulus of sunshine.

	"Day and the sweet approach of even and morn,
	And sight of vernal bloom and Summer's rose,
	And flocks and herds, and human face divine."

	The earth illuminated in beauty, and
smiling in joy at this season of the year,
proclaims with a language unmistakable the
love and tenderness of our Maker. The
sensitive heart is touched appealingly and
worships with renewed devotion that God,
who speaks to us in ten thousand voices
mingled in harmony. The universe is in-
deed God's temple, and He the reigning
Deity, and man should be the devout wor-
shipper. The soul that understands most
of light and intelligence, cannot but be a
true lover of nature's wildest and most pic-
turesque scenes. Every thing that has
life, evinces by its own peculiar instincts,

[Column 3]
the indulgence at these seasons, of nature
for her offspring. The young lambs frisk
and gambol in their hilly pastures, and the
herds of cattle scatter about in the mea-
dows, or lie upon the ground as if enjoying
the peaceful hours of tranquility. The sol-
itary places do not seem lonely, for the
world itself partakes involuntarily of hap-
piness and basks in the shining hours of
nature's luxury.
	Afar in the dim distance we see the glit-
tering peaks of the lofty mountains, and
we fancy they are deadly cold, and shud-
der as we view the almost immeasurable
heights of such dazzling whiteness, and we
can but compare them to those heights of
ambition so longed after by the world, be-
tween which and the aspirant for greatness,
lie the yawning gulfs, the unreliant chasms,
the terrible precipices, ridges and fields, all
of which must be passed to gain the cove-
ted heights. And when all has been ac-
complished perhaps bruised, bleeding and
torn the pinnacle of ambition is reached
and every obstacle overcome, we are no
more self helpful except from the experi-
ence gained, than if we had still lingered
in the valley below; we cannot live upon
greatness or brilliant attainments, only as
we assimilate them to the circumstances of
human life. Victory and power are only
beneficial as they subserve wise and judi-
cious purposes. Nothing can give us true
and lasting satisfaction and peace but the
triumph of correct and holy principles.
We are engaged in the great arena of the
battle of life; we want to maintain health
and self-possession equal to every emerg-
ency: and an intimate association with na-
ture often gives relief to the mind and
physical strength to the body. The constant
turmoil and excitement of a busy life, the
agitation of the passions, the various con-
tending influences, the rapid progress of
science, the spirit of individual ambition
and emulation, wear upon the organization
and produce a combination of circumstances
which make it not only desirable but nec-
essary that we should sometimes seek soft-
ening and peaceful influences. We need re-
pose of mind, and we find it in the haunts
of nature; the wooded glen, the shade of
the trees refresh us, the healthful breezes
cool our heated brows; the flowers cheer
and stimulate without excitement; the birds
sing to us and we catch the inspiration, and
our hearts drink in their simple melody.
The thin and flimsy partitions of conven-
tionalism crumble away in the grand and
mighty forests and wilds of mountain soli-
tudes, and the man of the world casts
aside inadvertently the garb of custom and
mingles with infinite delight and enthusi-
asm with the companionship chance throws
in his way. The barriers of society cannot
exist among nature's wilds; for the universe
has been given to the whole human family,
and under the broad canopy of heaven the
man of cultivation and the peasant are
equally pleased.
	Spring brings with it more definitely the
presence of life, for we all during the cold
winter months have felt an undefined
longing for fresh green nature; and so have
kept near us in our homes some green thing,
or even the magnificently-hued Autumn
leaves, to cheer and alleviate our sorrow for
the death and burial of the flowers. In
many countries the houses are ornamented
all the winter with trailing evergreens for
remembrances, and messages of promise of
the returning spring. To me this season of
the year seems Nature's holiday; all living
things rejoice and vegetation bursts forth
upon the world to gladden and adorn. The
spring time of blossoming has come, the


green grass is springing everywhere, span-
gled with dandelions and cowslips. In my
childhood at this season of the year we were
wont to ramble in the woods and hunt the
lily of the valley, and the early violet, hid
under the moss, and covered over with
snow; their perfume is delightful as they
are brought from their hiding place, so ar-
tistically has Mother Nature provided them
nurture.
	How competent is the great Author of all
to preserve intact the embryo blossom of
all varieties of vegetation, and we can but
acknowledge the mercy and tenderness
with which He has restored earth again to
beauty, which, while it elevates, refreshes,
invigorates and inspires, leads us to adore
the wonderful power which guides, controls
and animates all life and matter; and we
seem to form some idea of the perfection of
creation and the glory of Paradise. Indeed
might we with the author exclaim—"Fa-
ther, thou hast made all things beautiful in
their time."
							AUNT EM.
	Salt Lake City, April 10, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	176


[Column 1]
	PINE CANYON, TOOELE Co., Jan. 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The subject of raising silk is awakening
some interest in this Territory, and we
watch with much anxiety the silk associa-
tion in Salt Lake City, as an example for
the Territory. The raising of silk may be
made a very profitable enterprise, by em-
ploying thousands of the inhabitants of this
Territory in cultivating the mulberry trees,
and feeding the worms. The silk busi-
ness is but little understood by the best in-
formed on the subject among us, and not
understood at all by most of the inhabitants
of this Territory. That there is much
wealth in the silk business is unquestiona-
ble. The mulberry tree will grow about the
same as the peach tree, in almost any kind
of soil, but both will grow and prosper the
best in good rich soil. The mulberry tree
will raise its foliage without irrigation—the
leaves maturing sufficiently from the snow
and rainfall of the winter and spring.
These trees may be successfully raised with-
out irrigation. I have about 500 trees, some
of them about nine feet high and they pros-
per well without irrigation, and very little
cultivation. The bench oaks and maples
both mature their foliage annually with the
snow and rainfalls from above—in the same
manner will the mulberry tree prosper, and
it has been my conviction for sometime
that this Territory is allowing probably a
million of dollars annually to remain in the
soil, that might be obtained by the cultiva-
tion of silk. In the month of May of 1874
I transplanted about 1,500 young trees to a
part of my farm, and with few exceptions
they have thrived well without any irriga-
tion, and I do not intend to give them any
water; the land is hilly and irregular and
cannot be irrigated to advantage. During
last year (1875) my 500 trees retained their
foliage till the frost came. I have been ex-
perimenting, and observing the progress of
the silk interests in this Territory for sever-
al years—almost since the silk subject com-
menced to be argued, written about and ac-
ted upon. The mulberry tree may be win-
ter irrigated after the summer season is
past. It will wet the soil deep down, which
will amply supply the roots with moisture
to raise good crops of silk, as well as cause
the trees to grow luxuriantly. If the soil is
wet deep down, the pabulum can be absorbed
by the roots easily. Winter irrigation for
the mulberry, and summer irrigation for

[Column 2]
other kinds of produce will make Utah rich.
	The question may arise, will not the mul-
berry tree be killed by winter irrigation?
Two years ago I allowed the water to run
among the 1,500 hundred trees before men-
tioned, all winter and not one tree was
killed to my knowledge.
	There are many thousands of acres of
land here in Tooele Co., that may be made
available for the cultivation of silk, and
materially enrich the country. In every
part of the Territory where the mulberry
tree will grow, the water may be applied
to much advantage in the winter. It is dif-
ficult to kill the trees with frost, the roots
descend deep into the soil and will endure
a great deal. The tree should be well culti-
vated, kept free from weeds, and the soil
around the roots kept light and loose. They
may be planted five by five, or two by six
feet apart, so as to be accessible by a horse
and plow—the same as corn. The trees four
feet apart would be 2,720 to the acre, and
five feet apart 1,742 to the acre. What
amount of silk can be raised to an acre of
three year old trees, well cultivated? I
wish some of our silk raisers would inform
us.
	There is one remarkable fact in the feed-
ing of the worms—if they are fed leaves
from irrigated trees and the acid juicy fluid
is in the leaves in its unripe state, it will
give the worms the colic, or in other words
a deathly consumptive appearance, and will
shortly kill them if continued. The leaves
should be as ripe as possible when fed to
them. The silk is made from, and com-
posed of the ripe resinous elements with
which the leaves are impregnated, and
therefore should be good and ripe when fed
to them. The question has been asked me,
will not the mulberry trees prosper well
planted by the side of ditches? The ans-
wer is yes, but the acid juicy elements ab-
sorbed by the roots, will kill the worms if
it ascends up into the leaves and they are
used in their unripe condition. Experience
and experiments have too often satisfied
many that unripe fruit is unhealthy both
for men women and children, and very of-
ten when indulged in produces summer
complaints; in like manner will unripe mul-
berry leaves effect the worms. Mr. Hoag,
of California, states that "the trees should
not be irrigated within three weeks of
feeding time." The unripe leaf feeding
will never be a success to any silk raiser.
The dry bench land, or land with a dry bot-
tom or sub-soil, where the water can be
turned off at will is the best. It is well to
propagate the mulberry from cuttings.
With good seed and proper management,
from 30,000 to 50,000 trees may be raised
from one lb. of mulberry seed, the seed
should be planted the same as lettuce, on-
ions or cabbage seed for depth of soil, in a
sandy loam that will not bake on the top,
and become hard, it should be kept care-
fully moist until the seed germinates; it
should not be planted until the warm weath-
er comes, about the middle of April, or la-
ter, if the weather is not warm, the cold
will injure the young plants.
I am satisfied that this is a good climate,
with good care and management, for silk
culture. How much silk is annually work-
ed into silk goods and finery; the following
will give some idea:—See Departments re-
ports for 1870 pages, 238-9. In the North-
ern States silk is manufactured into dress
goods, ribbons, velvets, and trimmings; the
amount according to statements in com-
mercial papers being variously estimated at
$10,000,000 to 20,000,000 worth annually.
We have found it difficult to obtain relia-
ble information, and cannot vouch for the

[Column 3]
correctness of the following affirmations and
figures, but present for what they are worth,
statements apparently reliable. Boston
reports 50 silk factories, mainly engaged in
manufacture of velvets; New York, 50, and
the business is carried on extensively in
Schenectady, Troy, Yonkers and at Oneida,
by the Oneida Community who commenced
late in 1866, manufacturing nearly $25,000
worth in 1867, and now employ 130 female
operatives in their factories. A considera-
ble business is done at Mansfield, Hatfield
and Manchester in Connecticut. A com-
pany in Manchester is said to fabricate
yearly 60,000 pounds of thrown silk, 60,000
pounds of patent spun, 100,000 pieces of
belt ribbon, 600,000 yards of wide goods,
consisting of dress silks, gros-grains, pop-
lins, foulards, and pongees; employing 1,-
000 operatives. The capital invested in
Masachuseetts, New York and Connecticut
is 5,000,000. Philadelphia has thirty fac-
tories, with a capital of $1,500,000. Patter-
son and New Jersey has fifteen factories;
one corporation manufactures every month
3,000 pounds of silk thread, 4,000 gross of
silk braids, 600 gross of hat bands, 350 yards
of serge, and employs 300 operatives,
mostly children. Another makes 70,000
yards of dress trimmings monthly. The
aggregate number of persons employed in
the factories at Patterson is 3,500, and there
are 70,000 spindles. The raw silk used by
these companies is imported from China
and Japan free of duty, but first passes
through the English market where the pri-
ces are fixed."
	The silk raising commenced in China, and
has spread through many countries, and
now Utah has a chance with others. Mr.
Hoag of California says he raised $2,000
worth of silk from one acre of trees. If
$550 worth can be raised from one acre,
President Young's statement will be cor-
rect.	There is a great amount of information
on the subject of silk raising which can not
be communicated in a short letter to the
press, but will have to be proven by expe-
rience.
	What will become of the rising genera-
tion of this country if industries are not
prepared for them?. Mr. Peter A. Dron-
bay of Pine Canyon has connection with
French mulberry seed raisers, and can act
as agent to import all the seed needed; if
arrangements are made with him. The
late Mr. Bertrand wrote much on the silk
business, it remains for others to carry it
out in practice. I have written this arti-
cle for those who want information, hoping
they will be benefitted by it. To export
our silk is unwise, it can be manufactured
at home, and will be a source of profit and
will result in much good to the community.
				JAMES AND ANN STEEL.

	P. S. The Jaredites cultivated silk on
this Continent after they left the Tower of
Babel—See Book of Mormon old edition,
page 537.


HOW much is there in one minute, when
we reflect that one minute extends over the
whole world?
	PAY little attention to those philosophers
who tell us that we should completely con-
trol all our passions—never to be elated at
success or depressed at sorrow. "They talk
like angels but act like men."
	A LITTLE boy, gazing upon an old picture
of his mother taken in a low dress, re-
marked: "Mamma, you was mos' ready for
bed when dat picter was tooken."


177		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MANTI SANPETE CO., UTAH,
						April 3rd, 1876.

EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The sisters of these parts, despite their appar-
ent silence, are not altogether dormant as far as
their duties and privileges as mothers and sisters
in Israel are concerned. We hold our regular
monthly meetings under the presidency of Mrs.
Rebecca Wareham, to whose able management to-
gether, with the good advice of our esteemed bish-
op, Bro. John B. Maiben, much of the success
that, with God's blessing, we have been able to
achieve are due. In these meetings we seek to
carry out, to the best of our ability, the primary
object as originally contemplated, [-]iz., to devise
ways and means for the relief of the suffering, and
amelioration of the condition of the poor of Zion.
Besides these we have our work meetings, dona-
tion committees, etc., which all contribute to the
object in view.
	Mainly in order to extend our facilities to afford
the needed assistance to the poor, the sisters of our
society have for some time had under contempla-
tion, and have lately determined on opening a So-
ciety store, where many articles which the society
produces, but not immediately needed by the con-
suming poor, can be converted into such other
needed commodities as are not at present within
our reach to bestow. To this end we have sub-
scribed among ourselves nearly two hundred dol-
lars, with which we intend to start on a small scale,
hoping and expecting that the institution will, with
God's blessing, increase and be the means of ex-
tending the usefulness of our Society.
	In connection with this I must not forget to
mention that our young sisters have their retrench-
ment Society, under the Presidency of Miss Han-
nah Billings. Considerable interest is manifested
by them in this direction, and we hope and pray
that they may accomplish much good to themselves
and the community.
	Speaking of Retrenchment reminds me of an
editorial I read in one of the late "Exponents," in
which you animadvert severely and deservedly on
the "prevailing fashions and customs of society,"
but seem to take the ground that the opposite sex
is solely responsible for the present corruption, dis-
honesty and vice existing in high places, as you
speak only of the wines, cigars, horses, &c., of
the men, whereas I should also like to have some
mention made of the silks, satins, pearls and dia-
monds of the women. When I read such descrip-
tions of toilet as have recently appeared in our
"Dailies," toilets in which a woman's jewels alone
amount to competent fortunes, and in comparison
with which all your male appointments of cigars,
wines, etc., dwindle into utter insignificance, I am
forced to regard women—with their inordinaie de-
sires to outshine each other in the richness of their
dress and ornaments, and the splendor and brillian-
cy of their entertainments, dinner parties, balls,
etc., thereby entailing upon their husbands ex-
penses requiring princely fortunes to bear up [-]nder
without transgressing the strict bounds of honor
and honesty—as bearing a great share of the re-
sponsibility for the present existing state of things.
	I deeply sympathize with our sisters in the East
and elsewhere in their efforts to emancipate our
sex from the inferior condition and place they have
hitherto politically occupied, but excuse me if I
make the assertion that reform is needed elsewhere
first. Let them first accomplish something in sim-
plicity of dress and style. As for jewels, let them
remember and pattern after the "Mother of the
Gracchi."
	Yes, though I do claim for woman a political
as well as social equality with man, I also hold
that Home is especially her kingdom, and here
she has full scope to mold both the men and wo-
men of the future; to make, or mar our statesmen
and leaders of politics, as well as our leaders of
fashion and society.
	Let them commence at home then where their
influence should be and always can be supreme.

[Column 2]
Let them improve the opportunities they have
first to their full extent and, as sure as eternal
justice exists, their other aspirations will in due
time find their fulfilment and all their noble de-
sires be accomplished.
	I thank God that the work of reform has already
commenced in this Territory; it was high time.
Already the same vicious tastes have made inroads
upon us, and the pernicious example of Babylon
has led astray some of our daughters and brought
grief into some of our families—but let us not be
weary in well doing, and faint not.
	May the work, so nobly begun, spread from
hence over these United States—over the world.
May the Spirit of God accompany the efforts of all
who work in righteousness, is the prayer of your
Sister in the Covenant.
		WILHELMINA CHRISTAFFERSON.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"SAMBO, did you ever see the Cats kill
mountains?" "No, but I've seen 'em kill
mice."
	A PARISIAN definition of a beautiful wo-
man—The paradise of the eye, and the pur-
gatory of the purse.
	MRS. Partington wants to know what
kind of drums co-numdrums are. She
thinks these are somewhat hard to beat.


THE FINE ARTS.

 The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pat at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE.
Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Now Receiving at
TEASDEL'S,
The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
 Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET. SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
 Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Fo[---] I
  doors below Walker House, and examine our
   goods,we guarantee satisfaction, and will
    take pleasure in making to order, such
     brushes as we have not on hand.
				Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

 LITTLE & ROUNDY,
	Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE
		23, MAIN STREET,

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
		AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James. Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
 Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons.  Flowers in endless variety.

 Ladies attending Conference should [-]all and seal her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.			17, East Temple street.
TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TO THE LADIES!

TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just recieved a large stock of SPRING GOODS of-
all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and, a full stock
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we 
are selling very cheap.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substautia
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLES AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1876.	NO.23


For the EXPONENT.
				LAST DAYS.

How simple some words! yet we cannot deny
They strike with a force, 'tis in vain to defy—
To the fond, faithful heart there are few that convey
Such a host of reflections as crowd the last day.

'Tis the knell of bright joy—of deep grief, of pale fear,
Times' only brief portion, we KNOW will appear,
And rushing through childhood, maturity, age!
We forget to observe the last days in each stage;

So progressive is life! and so noiseless, it steals,
The transitions are made without any appeals,
We pass by each stage as the links in a chain,
Forgetting, we ne'er shall behold then again.

Oh! my heart palpitates, and my pulses beat quick,
My blood rushes thrilling—my breathing is thick,
As I musingly dwell on a many last day
Of gushing delight, that has long past away!—

Who does not remember with heart-aching thr[--]
The last days of happiness! last days of woe?
The last day of friendship, endearments, and love?
The last day on earth of the dear ones above!

The last day of school—of the nursery—of youth,
Are all deeply engrav'd with a pencil of truth
And the last day we spent in our childhood's dear Home
'Ere we leapt into life through its mazes to roam[-]

How pure was the heart! and how clear was the brain,
We dreamt not of sorrow, we dreamt not of pain,
But many last days have since taught us to know
What it is to feel agony, parting and woe!

And how soaring so ever my spirit may be
And how glided soever hopes' summits I see
My hearts dial glows with no sun beaming ray
If friendship, or love, darkly points their last day.

Oh! Earth!—thou enchain'st us with many a spell[-]
And we love thy bright fetters endearingly well—
But let us remember with holy bow'd soul
That 'ere long there will come a last day to the whole.

And that Time—though he moves with inaudible tread
Is lining our features and bleaching our head;
But on let him come, if we truly can say
I'm prepared for the last—aye the very last day!

								HANNAH T. KING.
	S. L. City, Apr. 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO YOUNG MEN.

	Young man, are you ambitious? Did you
ever have a desire to be greater, better and
wiser than you are? Or, are you completely
satisfied with yourself, and imagine (for in-
deed it is but mere imagination) that you
can be no better?
	If such an idea as this latter has entered
your mind, cast it from you and shun it as
a thing to be feared and despised, for, if
you are working to accomplish anything,
just so sure as you encourage this conceited
thought, just so sure will you come to a
stand-still. Do you know why? Listen—
when you allow yourself to be contented
with a few primary efforts, the success of
which may have flattered you into the be-
lief that you are a born genius, you be-
come blind to everything but self-love.
You survey yourself in a mirror which
shows but a part of you; you cannot see
your faults for you think you have none;
you can form no conjecture of a higher
grade of excellence than the one where
you now are, and, unless you do this, and
have a definite object to work to, a standard
ahead to claim your attention and incite
you to exertion, it is impossible for you to
advance; as well attempt to guide a vessel


across the ocean in a storm without the aid
of compass, rudder or sail.
	On the other hand, if you are striving to
make headway, and directing all your ef-
forts toward the encompassing of an hon-
orable ambition, though the prospect may
appear dark, and no light of encouragement
illumine the pathway you are pursuing, it
is at this very time that you are making
rapid advancement. Why? Because your
thoughts are not on yourself, but far ahead
resting upon the realization of the object to-
ward which you are surely making your way.
It is quite natural that this should appear
difficult, but never allow it to discourage
you. The obstacles that appal you for most
part are your imperfections (now plainly
visable) and a lack of faith in yourself.
These, and all others may be overcome, and
will diminish correspondingly to the
amount of confidence you place in your own
ability. Do not despair because you are
poor, nor heed those who despise your
humble position. These narrow souls
would be the first to lick your hand if you
were wealthy, even as a lap dog licks the
hand that feeds it—do not trust or notice
them. Cultivate the love and friendship of
those who are not to be influenced by the
changes of fortune. Who love you for
yourself; whether covered in rags, or clothed
in purple, and who remain, through sum-
mer and winter, in sunshine or in shadow,
TRUE TO THE CORE.
	Leave nothing to chance. Rather go to
it than wait for it to come to you. Be vir-
tuous, temperate and industrious.
	"Let God-like Reason, from her sovereign
throne, speak the commanding words I WILL
and it is done."
								THESPIS.


CHOOSE YE THIS DAY WHOM
			YE WILL SERVE.

	Would it not be well for us to stop a mo-
ment and consider this question? We
know we have the opposition of the world
to meet.
	I feel that the time has come for the sis-
ters in the Relief Societies to educate
themselves. Jesus said: "thou shalt love
the Lord thy God with all they heart." To
do this we will have to be prayerful and
humble before the Lord, and put on the
whole armor; we want knowledge, wisdom,
and understanding to cultivate the abilities
that God has endowed us with. We must try
and overcome this timidity which effects us,
exert ourselves to encourage one another, re-
frain from fault-finding, learn to be lenient
toward anothers' short-comings. We have
been slaves to FASHION, we must be so no
more. Let us be self-sustaining, and make
our own fashions; the Retrenchment So-
cieties were organized especially to set an
example and regulate the fashions in Zion.
Do we see it carried out as it should be? I
think not, not even in the Senior Associa-
tion. Our wants are few if we preserve our
tastes and habits simple, as they are by na-
ture. This is a day of choosing and we
must act upon our own agency and do the
choosing ourselves.
	Let us arouse and prepare for those things


that are coming upon us. We need a strong
determination to come out on the Lord's side,
we must be like the women of old, and adorn
ourselves with apparel made by our own
hands, and dispense with those superfluous
gew-gaws that only make us appear ridicu-
lous. Do not be ashamed to wear anything
made in Zion.
	Every faculty we possess is capable of be-
ing cultivated. When speculation and ex-
travagance are on the increase, women have
to be prepared for any fate; let us strive to
be honorable, and instead of pulling each
other down, let us strengthen and bless each
other. "Every weakness we overcome,
every temptation we gain victory over,
brings us nearer perfection. Then shrink
not at trials when we know they are sure
steps taken towards our advancement in the
onward and upward path."
	I would say in conclusion, to all, old and
young, Reform! In dress, manners and de-
portment, and make ourselves agreeable
by adding comfort to those around us. We
must think deeply and think for ourselves.
Let our motto be onward, heedless of the
scorn of a jealous world. We have set our
mark high, let us not cease our exertions
until we have attained it.
	BOUNTIFUL.				M. J. C.


For the EXPONENT.
			HOME POLITENESS.

	This is a subject that should be carefully
studied, taught and practiced in every fam-
ily, for a home without it cannot be perfect-
ly happy. How many mothers there are
who complain of their children being rude
and disobedient, and yet they never seem
to think they are in part to blame. Instead
of speaking kindly and pleasantly, they are
so harsh and stern that in time the child be-
comes hardened and heedless. If moth-
ers were to speak in a cheerful and
pleasant tone when they ask the child to
perform some small errand, the ready re-
sponse would, be yes mother, and the little
heart would be filled with joy instead of
pain.
	Children have rights that should be re-
spected and held just as sacred as older per-
sons. After a child has performed any duty,
it is far better to say that's a good child, or
thank you my dear.
	People say: "oh my c[---] learn so much
bad language outside, and are getting to be
so rude."
	If all would try to make home pleasant
and attractive, children would love to stay
at home, and would not have the opportu-
nity of learning so much bad language else-
where. If we would treat children polite-
ly they would be more apt to treat each
other politely. As Latter-day Saints we
should endeavor to rear our children in a
way and manner so as to fit them for impor-
tant stations in life. It is the young and
rising generation that must bear off this
Kingdom. No person can succeed in any
position of importance unless they under-
stand the little courtesies that make life
pleasant.
							M. R.
Clifton March 9th, 1876!


179		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	NEPHI CITY, Apr. 13, '76.
EDITOR EXPONEMT.
	The Young Ladies' Society here, meet
twice a month and spend the time in talk-
ing of the things concerning their religion.
	Many of the young ladies seem to be
deeply interested in the Association and
take pleasure in composing essays, and read-
ing selections from good books and papers.
	The Association has quite a supply of
braiding material on hand, and judging
from the improvement that is being made,
they will soon be able to manufacture their
own hats and bonnets.
	Being desirious of raising funds to pur-
chase books, several parties were given
during the winter, in which the counsel of
our much esteemed President Brigham
Young, with regard to dancing was strictly
observed.
	Yours with respect,
		L. L. FOOTE, Sec'y.
			S. HOYT, Assistant.

	WALES, SANPETE Co., April 8th, 76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Society for Young La-
dies' was organized in this place by Bishop
John Reese and his Counselors, March 29,
1876; the officers as follows:
	Maggie J. Reese, President,
	Martha Ann Reese,
	Hannah Freak
	Lizzie Reese, Sec'y.		Counselors.
	As our settlement is a small one, the So-
ciety was organized with ten members.
We hold our meetings regularly, and desire
to improve in everything pertaining to our
relations in life, socially, physically and re-
ligiously. We have already raised money
enough to subscribe for the EXPONENT for
one year. We hope to be visited during
the summer by some of the more experi-
enced sisters from Salt Lake City.
	Yours, &c.,
		M. J. REESE, Prest.

	TOOELE CITY, April 14th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Spirit and blessing of God our Fath-
er is with us in our labors and meetings to-
gether as a Relief Society, and although we
may be feeble at present, we realize that
wisdom and knowledge are requisite in
seeking those gifts and adornments that
are becoming to woman, and highly nec-
essary to those who have received the
Everlasting Gospel and have the privileges
we enjoy, of learning from inspired men
and women, the principles of exaltation.
	We highly prize the EXPONENT, for it is
full of gems of purest light; whoever will
read it candidly will certainly perceive
there is a different influence in Utah to what
there is in any other country, and that we
are really "a peculiar people." I hope the
rest may be said of us with as much truth
"zealous of good works." We are well
aware, however humble our labors may be,
they will result in good, if we work with a
pure motive.
	We are trying this season to raise means
to build a house, for there is quite a large
Retrenchment Society here, who require a
meeting-house as well as ourselves.
	Our President, Sister Meiklejohn, is most
untiring and energetic iu her labors, and
possesses the full confidence and love of the
sisters in this place.
	That we may do our part in helping roll
on this great work, and eventually be saved

[COLUMN 2]

with the sanctified, is the prayer of your
Sister in the Gospel,
			EMILY WARBURTON; Sec.

	MONA, JUAB Co.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have read with great pleasure, the re-
ports of the different Societies, and we feel
much interested in their prosperity, and
wish to be one with them in their efforts for
Mutual Improvement. On the second day
of March the officers of the Relief Society,
assisted by President John Haws, and sev-
eral others, organized a Retrenchment As-
sociation. The following officers were elect-
ed: Miss Maggie Somerville, President,
Mrs. Eliza Somerville, and Mrs. Mattie
Haws, Counselors Mrs. Susie Tibbs, Sec-
retary, Mrs. Hannah Somerville, Treasur-
er. Our resolutions are similar to those
adopted by other societies of the same na-
ture. We hold meetings semi-monthly.
Our object is to enlarge the mind by reading
useful books, and cultivating our moral and
intellectual natures, realizing that this is
the only means by which we can enjoy
true happiness, either in this life or in the
life which is to come. We desire to over-
come evil in its various forms, and to fulfill
all obligations required of us as accounta-
ble beings, destined for eternity. We have
abandoned round dancing, and are trying to
make a more judicious use of our time than
we have done in the past.
	Our Relief Society was organized in 1868,
with Sister Eliza Somerville as President,
she is remarkable for her energy and perse-
verance. She has had disadvantages to
contend with, mainly arising from the
members being dilatory in attending meet-
ings; but I am pleased to say that her un-
tiring efforts have been blest, and that the
sisters seem inspired with new ardor and
zeal, and we hope to accomplish much good.
Our business transactions have been on a
limited scale, yet we have administered to
the wants of the sick and needy, in every
instance that has come under our observa-
tion.
	With an earnest desire for the success of
the EXPONENT,
	I Remain, Respectfully,
		SUSLE E. TIBBS, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would give you a little of my
experience and some of my views about
the treatment of infants which is one of
great importance. I hear of so many little
children dying. The thought arises in my
mind what is the cause? I am led to think
it is a lack of wisdom in many cases on the
part of the mothers. They trust too much
to outside influences. I will tell my young
sisters the course I used to pursue when
my babies were sick. If I was alone with
them I used to lay my hands upon them and
with all the faith I had ask the Lord to re-
buke the Destroyer, and then I would kneel
down and ask my Heavenly Father to di-
rect my mind as to what course I should
take; and whatever came to my mind first,
however strange and simple it appeared, I
always acted upon it, and it never failed to
relieve my children. When our Heavenly
Father suffers the Destroyer to afflict our
children He knows best what will restore
them. I never administered any drugs or
spirits or soothing syrups in all my life. If
they were so sick that I had to lose my rest
I would ask the Lord to give me strength
and patience to bear with them. I would

[Column 2]
not allow any person to administer any-
thing to my child but myself, I think the
mother is, or should be the proper person to
administer to her own offspring. If she
will put her whole trust in God, she may al-
ways have faith; and if her child should be
taken from her for a wise purpose, she will
have the sweet consolation of having done
her duty, and that her child has gone to its
Father, pure and uncontaminated. I think
if our mothers would instill into the minds
of their daughters the necessity of attain-
ing and exercising faith in the ordinance of
the gospel, instead of using drugs and rely-
ing on doctors, it would be a strong bul-
wark against the power of the Destroyer.
Our infants have not knowledge enough to
have faith for themselves; therefore it is
the duty of parents to exercise it for them.
Every mother ought to study the nature of
her child, and be very careful what food she
takes when she is nursing it, she should
not gratify her own taste with anything
that will not agree with it, but should deny
herself. If the baby is not inclined to
sleep just when you want it, be patient and
do not give it anything that you do not
know the nature of; do not listen to anyone
that has not faith in the priesthood in case
of sickness. Let us seek to our Father in
heaven for wisdom, and he will not with-
hold it from us, if we are living our relig-
ion and in the line of our duty. My sis-
ters, into whose hands these few simple
lines may chance to fall, let me entreat of
you not to let them pass by unheeded.
When our children are taken from us, we
do not know the loss they may sustain.
Even if they sustain none, we do. I often
feel that the Lord is displeased with us for
neglecting our duties as we often do. We
trust too much to the arm of flesh. We are
told in the Bible, "they that know their
Master's will and do it not, shall be beaten
with many stripes." I thtnk it would give
me greater sorrow than to have my child-
ren taken away from me, If I knew I had
neglected any duty for them. The time to 
bless and comfort them is while they are
with you, it is too late when they are taken
away.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
						SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, March 8, 1876.


THE GIRL OF THE PERIOD.

	She wore a round hat put upon the back
of her head like the aureole of a saint, to
whom her sweet face gave her an appear-
ance of kindred. Her bodice was close fit-
ting—indeed, drawn tight about the waist,
like the bark of a young, tender tree. Her
scant skirt, pulled light in front so as to
show her form, and "tied back," terminat-
ed behind in a short fan-like train, like the
tail of a mermaid. She was mounted on
shoes seven sizes too small for her feet—in-
deed, only her toes seemed to have accom
modation in them; and the high heels com-
ing under the instep tilted her forward and
completed the grace of her carriage. When
she walked she put down one lit[-]le foot af-
ter the other as if each leg were as elastic
as an iron rod. It was a great [-]leasure to
see her pegging along, a thing of perfect
beauty, like one of the drawings of some
mythological biped by some of the old
masters.


GOOD luck is a man of pluck, with his
l[-]eeves rolled up, and working to make it
ome out right.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	180


FOUND.

Found in the river at break of day,
A lifeless body, floating away,

Floating away to the wild, wild lake,
Where the rough-ribbed waves roll and break

O'er the white bleached bones of many a score
Who never were found and brought to shore.

Out from the current space that rolled,
Out from the waters so dark and cold,

Out from the refuge for shame and sin,
Dripping and lifeless, they brought her in.

Down to the Morgue, without a groan
Or shudder, they brought the fair unknown:

There in the chamber of death to wait
For friends to claim if they learned her fate.

But oh! for the friends so far away,
She left one dreary and dismal day;

Left —yet a mother whose hairs were gray,
Clung round her at parting to plead her stay.

How oft in that drear dark life must she
Have looked to the home of her infancy;

How oft when the far-off stars looked down
Upon her, wandering about the town.

Must her alpine cottage have sprung to view,
Away 'mid the rough-ridged rocks of blue;

Despised, forsaken, at last she came
Down to the river to hide her shame.

Only a moment upon the bank,
She coiled her hair, with the night dew dank;

Only a moment she heard the roar
And tumult around her —then all was o'er.

Found in the river at break of day,
A lifeless body floating away.

While in her pocket a note all torn
Was found, to send to her friends forlorn.
—Golden Dawn.


[Column 1]
LETTERS.

		VIRGIN CITY, April 10th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are living in an isolated little pocket
in the mountains a long way from so called
civilization, and although we are deprived
of many of the advantages enjoyed in
large towns, still we are free from many of
the vices that those living in cities have to
contend with.  I often think there is noth-
ing to prevent us from living our religion.
Our Relief Society is in a prosperous condi-
tion although there are but few active mem-
bers.  We are striving to do what we can
by our labor (for that is all we have to de-
pend upon) to aid in the upbuilding of the
kingdom of God.
	We had a Leap Year Party February 22d
for the benefit of the St. George Temple;
we cleared over expenses $26,50.  We have
but one poor family that has to be assisted,
but we can do much good and receive bless-
ings by attending the meetings.  There is
very much said about RETRENCHMENT
lately; as far as dress is concerned we have
but little to retrench from; we see but little
of the fashions unless we go from home, or
visitors come to see us.  I regret to say that
some of the prominent Retrenchment La-
dies have been dressed in a style scarcely
in keeping with the idea, and especially as
they are looked to as patterns of propriety
and consistency.  It seems that a woman
now-a-days to dress plain and neat without
superfluities, has to possess considerable
moral courage.  Why is it that among Lat-
ter-day Saints we look so much at the ap-
pearance?  How many good, moral, but
poor people are deprived of the pleasure to
be derived from attending social parties, be-
cause they will not dress beyond their
means?

[Column 2]
	I often think that the prophecies of Isa-
iah concerning the daughters of Zion are
being fulfilled as fast as possible.  How few
we see with a good head of hair.  The styles
in which it has been worn the last few
years, blown and tangled together, would
destroy the most beautiful hair.  God de-
signed it to be an ornament, and we should
not adorn ourselves with sea grass and oth-
er foreign follies.  My advice to young la-
dies is to do up their hair in a neat tidy
manner, with as few hair-pins and combs
as possible, don't let it be blown about and
broken up by the wind.  My hair is thick,
and has not been cut since I was a little
girl, and I never let it hang loose upon any
occasion.
	Peach and other trees are now in full
bloom, these with the green lucerne patch-
es interspersed, make our little town look
very pleasant, like a well stocked flower-
garden.  Last season we lost all our fruit
with the exception of grapes, by frost; we
are in hopes that it will be preserved this
season, as fruit is our main harvest.
	Wishing the welfare of Zion, I subscribe
myself your sister in the Covenant of Peace,
					ALICE ISOM.

	DRAPER, SALT LAKE CO, Apr. 19, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is a very quiet little place and its
name is not often seen in the EXPONENT,
but it is said "Let your light shine," there-
fore in behalf of my sisters; and also for
the encouragement of some, I have written
these few lines.  We hold our Retrench-
ment meetings once a week, and unless bad
weather prevents, they are well attended
by sisters who are striving to become unit-
ed.  We are thankful to our Heavenly
Father for the many blessings which we en-
joy, and for the privilege of thus meeting
together in an association, and we realize
that these societies are calculated to make
us stronger in the principles of our religion,
and more noble and worthy to become
mothers in Israel.
	We had been counseled to cease the
round dances, but as they had become the
favorite and almost universal dance, it ap-
peared at first, as though it would be a hard
matter to get the young to comply with the
request. But after being organized the sis-
ters immediately resolved to cease dancing
them.  The young men complied without
the least resistance, so there is no more
round dancing among us, and our parties
are not held later than ten o'clock in the
evening, and the smell of liquor has not
been known in our dances this winter,
which is one of the greatest improvements.
It is said that whatever may be the customs
or laws of any country, women always give
the tone to morals.  Therefore dear sisters
let us be guarded in our actions that we
may always wield a good influence. Let us
live our religion in every particular that we
may have courage to do right, power to re-
buke sickness and disease; and always have
the Spirit of God to combat with our ene-
mies.  We must not let the faults of others
weaken us in the faith, but let it be an in-
centive to live better lives ourselves. Our
Heavenly Father is a just God, and will not
let the ways of the wicked destroy the sal-
vation of the righteous.
	With a desire to be faithful to the end, I
am your Sister in the Gospel.
							J. A. S.


[Column 1]
		USE GOOD ENGLISH.

	A great deal depends on early habit; and
correct language learned in early life is eas

[Column 2]
ily continued ever afterward. Whenever
young persons use a wrong word, let them
immediately select the right expression and
repeat it to themselves a number of times,
and in this way it will soon become easy
and natural. Without such repetition in
use they will certainly fail. Many things in
life depend on a good use of English; and
on the other hand, nothing will retard suc-
cessful progress in life sooner than bad
English, bad pronunciation, and slang words.
Edward Everett said that "to read the Eng-
lish language well, to write a neat, legible
hand and to be master of the first four rules
of arithmetic"—I call this a good education.
And if you add the ability to write pure
grammatical English, I regard it as an ex-
cellent education.
	Now, to correct errors and establish a
good practice the work must be taken in de-
tail. One thing must be done at a time.
One of the first steps then, is to use simple
language to express just what we want to
say. There are several words often improp-
erly used for many different meanings, and
in this way they loose their force. Take, for
example, the word fix—the strict meaning
of which is to make fast, to settle, but it is
improperly used in many other ways, as "I
fixed my hair, I fixed the wagon, I fixed
my gloves, I fixed the room," &c.; instead
of "I brushed my hair, I repaired the wag-
on, I sewed my gloves, I put my room in
order," &c.
	Another word used still more loosely and
widely, is, "nice." This properly means
over exact; punctilious; delicate; subtle.
But is often employed to denote all com-
mendable qualities. We often hear careless
speakers say "this apple is nice," instead of
delicious; she is a nice girl," instead of 
good or agreeable; a nice landscape," for a
lovely landscape; a nice cottage," instead of
a snug one; a nice man," instead of a geni-
al man; a nice mountain," instead of a
grand or lofty one; "a nice drink of water,"
for a refreshing one; "a nice story," instead
of an interesting one; "a nice smell," to a
flower, for a pleasant odor; and so on with-
out limit. Some persons look nice, walk
nice, talk nice, make a nice visit, write a
nice letter, live in a nice house, wear nice
clothes, make a nice present, &c.
	Again, the word "awful," which means
dreadful, fearful, sublime, is used as a gen-
eral adjective for nearly all purposes, both
good and bad, by those who cannot select a
separate and appropriate adjective for each
separate purpose; and we accordingly hear
of an awful nice day, an awful dull knife,
an awful good pear, an awful old hat, etc.,
etc.
	Another word, "got," is used profusely
by some speakers. Some of our readers
have perhap's heard the man's naration:—
"After I got your letter I got on horseback,
and when I got to Boston I got a carriage,
but I got wet before I got to the office, and
I got such a cold as I can't get rid of. I got
to the hotel and got my supper, and then I
got to bed, but it was long before I got to
to sleep. When I got up in the morning
and got my breakfast, I got to the cars, and
got home before night."
	To avoid all such inelegancies, or to cor-
rect them when they have become a habit,
repeat to yourself the correction, and con-
tinue to repeat it till it becomes ready and
familiar in use. In this way young persons
may acquire the habit of using the best
language, and the longer it is continued the
more easy and natural it will become. Al-
ways select the shortest and simplest words,
and those which convey distinctly the in-
tended meaning. All this will require at-
tention and pains, without which nothing
is ever accomplished.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate, Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 1, 1876.


MORE ABOUT ECONOMY.

	At a special meeting recently held in Ogden
City, President Young in making remarks up-
on the needless expenditures of the women of
the Latter-day Saints, calculated that if he had
the surplus thus wasted, a temple might be
built every year. He also made a similar esti-
mate of the money unprofitably spent by the
brethren.
	When called to account for this lamentable
mis-use of property, surely many of the Latter-
day Saints will have great occasion to be more
ashamed of their foolish vanity than they are
of the economy they are sometimes forced to
use.
	It is an absurd and ridiculous weakness of
which some people are possessed, to desire to
appear richer than they are. But a really sen-
sible man or woman will not be ashamed of
any economy which it is necessary to practice.
In considering the remarks of the President on
the subject still farther, it is clearly apparent
that of right, those of this people who are pos-
sessed of the largest amount of worldly goods
have no more to spend in unnecessary display
than the poorest among them. He said em-
phatically that he, his brethren or his sisters
had no time or means to spend for nought.
	It would become every woman belonging to
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints to examine her own life, and seek to dis-
cover whether she is spending time or means
for nought, or causing or encouraging others to
do so. No one need indulge the thought that
[--]cause her neighbors, who spend so much
more than she does, excuse themselves in liv-
ing on in careless ease and extravagance, that
it is useless for her to cultivate in herself and
in her household true economy, which is al-
ways in keeping with good taste.
	Every house keeper should be aware that it
is more to her credit and the comfort of those
she serves, that her tumblers are clear and free
from lint than that they should be elaborately
cut; that her knife handles are perfectly wiped
than of a costly material. And so of other
things. The enjoyment of a company at din-
ner depends much more on neatness and good
order than on expensive table furniture on a
few dishes well cooked than a great variety
badly served.
	If a young lady is blest with affectionate and
indulgent parents, she should be careful not to
influence them to incur expenses they can ill
afford, either in dress, furniture or entertain-
ments. She should understand that their feel-
ings are all on her side, and instead of appeal-
ing to them, consult their judgment and ex-
perience, and beg them not to grant her re-
quest unless they think it right and know they
can afford it. Even in cases where young peo-


ple think they are unnecessarily restricted they
are apt to be mistaken. The ambition of par-
ents for their children is generally as great as
that of children for themselves; and without a
full knowledge of their father's affairs they are
not capable of judging how much he can af-
ford to spend on their pleasures.
	Great wisdom, as well as much fortitude is
necessary to enable a person to practice true
economy in these days.


[Column 1]
				CRITICISM.

			"O, breath of public praise,
		Short-liv'd and vain! oft gained without desert
		As often lost unmerited				HARVARD.

	It is much more easy to tear down than to
build up. Adapting this saying to the depart-
ment of literature, one can readily perceive
that it runs thus, it is far easier to criticise than
compose, and there are more critics than au-
thors; a[-]d as Sir Walter Scott said "there are
literary tinkers, who after the fashion of their
class, make two holes in patching one." It is
more easy to read a book than write one." But
to be popular is also to be unpopular; or as we
have often seen verified there is a class of per-
sons who are never comfortable except when
they are uncomfortable.
	If one would accomplish a fixed purpose in
whatever department one may select, it is well
to receive counsel, advice, suggestions, criti-
cisms even, and pleasantly too--profit by them,
applying them to practical use; but if one is
laboring earnestly with a definite idea in one's
own mind, do not let any of these hindrances
or helps (as the case may be) destroy the de-
velopment of the idea, or prevent the original
intention.

						"The noisy praise
		Of giddy crowds, is changeable as winds;
		Still vehement, and still without a cause;
		Servant to change and blowing in the tide
		Of swo[-]n success; but yeering with the ebb,
		It leaves the channel dry."				DRYDEN,

	People are very ready with counsel and criti-
cism, but one must use some discretion; no
doubt it is all well-meant, but one can even
have too much of a good thing. If we were to
heed all the criticisms etc., what would be the
result? It is difficult to define.
	One says our paper is too religious, another,
it is too monotonous; then we are told to let
politics alone--then polygamy-- "believe it,
live in it, if you wish, but do not write about it,
it is offensive." Pshaw! persons whose very
presence should be loathsome to virtuous people
may be received in society, may throng public
places of amusement and resort; but polygamy
is not a fitting subject for a woman's pen; it is
too indelicate. We must not speak of it, we
must not write about it; sincerity and convic-
tion are not sufficient pretexts; it is unpopular.
	The world were anxious heretofore to learn
whether women really believed in the prin-
ciples of plural-marriage and acted upon their
own free-agency, or whether they were kept in
bondage by the mere physical power of man.
And now when they have found voi[--] through
the medium of the press, and express their
opinions etc., the cry is, it is not in keeping
with this age of progression.
	A vast deal more might be said in this strain
but let this much suffice; "Ill-selected subjects
indelicate, weapons dull as lead." Never
mind, we are aware it is up-hill work, an inno-
vation upon the current system of morals; we
know this to be a HIGHLY RESPECTABLE AGE,
and we expect opposition, and many of our rea-
ders to condemn and criticise our "poor weak
hobbling lines," but we know the apostle said:
"There shall come in the last days, scoffers and
many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall
be increased."

[Column 2]
	Nevertheless, resolutely do we confess to our
candor and sincerity, and as we have tresspass-
ed in times past, we entreat your charity in
the future, to hear the whole budget of indi-
vidval confessions. Let any one tell truths of
themselves, and be consistent if they can.
Why then intrude such unrequired counsel?
We will leave the harvest of praise to those
who can cater to the public taste; but for us,
there is only frankness, sincerity and candor,
and a writer to succeed must possess some mor-
al courage, if not physical. And we have al-
ready become full aware that if we cannot win
applause, we can at least call forth criticism.


NOTICE.—By mutual consent and wish of
the citizens of Pine Kanyon, Tooele County,
near Tooele City, the name of their place has
been changed to Lakeview.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Several Reports from Societies, and other
correspondence are laid over for want of space.
We are compelled to repeat again, we must be
in possession of the real name of the corres-
pondent, before we can publish their articles.
	ON WEDNESDAY morning. April 19th, Presi-
pent Young with a small party, among whom
were several of the Twelve and some other
ladies and gentlemen, went on a special train
to Ogden, to be present at the dedication of
the Relief Society's new building. Arriving
at the new iron bridge across the Weber, most of
the party alighted and stood on the river bank
to get a good view of the bridge and see the
train cross and recross. Arriving in Ogden the
party immediately wended their way to the
building about to be dedicated, where were al-
ready assembled the President and officers of
the Relief and Retrenchment Societies; also
President F. D. Richards, Bishop Farr, Mayor
Herrick and others. The building is intended
not only to hold meetings, but to combine dif-
ferent departments of HOME INDUSTRIES for
women. The front is used as a store for straw
and other goods, the larger room at the back
for a work-room and for holding meetings. It
reflects great credit upon the sisters of Ogden;
both Relief and Retrenchment Societies we
understand having contributed towards its
erection and they anticipate clearing off all
encumbrances this year. The President of the
Relief Society expressly desired President
Young to preside over the meeting. After
singing President Young called upon Elder
Joseph F. Smith to offer the dedicatory prayer.
He then called upon W. C. Dunbar to sing "O
ye mountains high," &c., assisted by C. W.
Penrose. He then addressed the meeting,
speaking in the most commendable terms of
the efforts of the sisters in assisting to sustain
HOME INDUSTRIES, taking care of the sick,
practising economy, &c. His remarks were
concise, pithy and to the point, relating to the
practical lives of the Saints. He was followed
by each of the Twelve in succession, and Sis-
ters E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young, M. I. Horne
and Susan S. Young, each one bearing a faith-
ful testimony and expressed their sincere earn-
estness in the work of the "Last Days." After
meeting the party repaired to the residence of
Pres. F. D. Richards where a tasteful and
sumptuous repast was hurriedly partaken of,
and then went directly to the cars, arriving in
this city about half-past four, p. m. We wish
the good sisters of Ogden the most entire suc-
cess in carrying out their ideas for the promo-
tion of labor in all the departments of HOME
INDUSTRIES which come within Woman's
Sphere.


SPECIMENS OF fine Honiton and Cluny lace
consisting of black silk lace veils, white lace
collars, barbes, wide and narrow lace for trim-
mings, are now in my possession. These laces
are home productions, made by Mrs. L. W.
Crompton, Mrs. L. and P. Durant and Mrs. J.
Adams, of Morgan Co. This business is likely
to prove one of the most lucrative of our
HOME INDUSTRIES.
	I would also say I am agent for the book en-
titled "Correspondence of Palestine Tourists;"
of which book notice was made in WOMAN's
EXPONENT March. 15. Orders promptly filled
from Relief Societies, or private families
throughout the Territory.

	Address:	Mrs. E. Davis, 14th Ward,
							Salt Lake City.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is some time since you have heard from
I'll Try, so I thought I would drop a line to
your many readers and tell them of a call I
made at Mrs. Rumells', one block east of the
theatre; I had heard considerable said of the
"Straw Hat Establishment," that started one
year ago, and I was happily surprised to see
the marked improvement, and the variety of
hats, so tastily trimmed and all made from
braid manufactured by the ladies of Utah.
	In the working apartment the braid by the
hundreds of score of all kinds, and variety,
was being passed from hand to hand, through
the different branches until it was finished by
the trimmer, for the sales-room, and her slen-
der fingers seemed to travel over the work with
much dispatch and taste.
	In the sales room, I saw a variety of hats de-
signed for both sexes, also very tasteful and
elegant bonnets; ladies of taste and refinement
were there purchasing hats and bonnets for
their own wear.
	The trimmings were principally imported,
but in course of time as our silk raising de-
velops we will be able to have our own ribbons
etc.
	I could not help asking myself the question
are there any Latter-day Saints that are so
whimsical and so lost to reason and sound sense,
that they would rather be seen wearing im-
ported millinery and thereby support a foreign
people, and leave our HOME MANUFACTURES
unsupported, and deprive our own people of
labor and self-sustenance, than to wear arti-
cles manufactured in our own Territory.
	My dear readers, who of you are willing to
patronize, and thus help in sustaining this great
movement, HOME INDUSTRIES.
								I'LL TRY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	182


[COLUMN 1]

	FAREWELL ADDRESS,

TO THE YOUNG LADIES' ASSOCIATION
	IN THE 13TH WARD.

DEAR SISTERS:
	It has been my lot to be called from your
mist, but I go cheerfully knowing that if I
can but do my duty, I will have peace and hap-
piness, no matter where I am. Sisters, I could
not go without showing you my friends and
associates in the Society, that I shall carry a
remembrance of the many happy hours we
have passed together, through all time. I love
you dear friends, as though you were in reality
the name I so love to call you, sisters. The
way in which we have been associated with
each other, has seemed to link us closer togeth-
er than years of common intimacy would have
done. A thought comes in my mind of nam-

[COLUMN 2]

ing you, sweet sisters, just as your spirits and
souls have appeared to me, FLOWERS. In old-
en times it was customary to use flowers for
letteres, to convey thoughts and feelings that
were too delicate for words. So I have follow-
ed in the footsteps of the ancients, and named
each of you a flower; and you must remember
that whenever I think of you, I shall associate
you with the pet name I have called you here.
I hope that each floweret in this bouquet will
be worthy to be transplanted in the garden of
Heaven.
	First we must have the rose. Queen of
flowers and most beautiful of all, our own dear
Zina, is our Rose. Next we must have some-
thing white, and so we will call our blue-eyed
Ida, the Apple-blossom, delicate and sweet.
Then Miss McLean, the Lily, pure and stately.
Then something bright next, our dark-haired
Louie, the scarlet geranium, brilliant and
beautiful. Annie the white camelia, Emily,
the fragrant Lilac, Emeline is the Oleander.
Now for variety, something unassuming yet
lovely and modest, with the most delicate per-
fume, the sweet English Violet, this repre-
sents May. After, a graceful, drooping,
white Fuschia, this we will call our dear sec-
retary. What is that flower that sends up
such a fragrant perfume, and is so modest
and retiring that you will have to search to
find its delicate blossoms? It is Flora, the
Mignonette. Close by we find the Queenly
Hyacinth; this is our Lute. Now for a bit of
rare Scotch Heather Bell, our Scotch lassie
Sarah. We have not named our Daisy yet;
this must be Elinor. I can scarcely decide
what to name our dark-eyed Ida, shall we call
her the Double Pink? Spicy, fragrant and
lovely. Her sisters are Honeysuckles. Belle,
Bessie, and Josephine are our Blue Bells. Our
lovely Georgie shall be the Pond-Lily, with its
wavy, velvety leaves. Nettie is the Pansy,
royal, purple eyed Pansy. Maime, is the
Orange Blossom, sweet and retiring. Fannie,
dear, sweet Fannie, is the Lily-of-the-valley.
Elvira, the Morning Glory. Georgie Clawson,
the Dahlia; Ruthie, our Japonica. Now we
must have some Verbenas, Lemon blossoms,
and Sweet-peas. These we will call Annie,
Maggie, Annie Smith, and our other Sarah.
There are a few more of the girls whose names
I do not know, but whose faces are perfectly
familiar; these we will call Hellotrope, Snow-
drops, and Forget-me-nots. What am I? you
will say, a bit of Green Fern to relieve the
brilliancy, and harmonize the coloring of love-
liness. Our dear President is the Golden Thread
that binds us together in love, harmony, and
unity; and the hand which has plucked us, and
which we hope will hold us through all time
and eternity is the Omnipotent hand of Provi-
dence.
	A.B.D.
S.L. City, April 20th, 1876.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	ANNIE Whitney has sent to the Centen-
nial the statuettes of Roma and Charles
Sumner.
	THE widow of Frederick VII of Den-
mark, (the Countess Lanner) has bequeathed
all her vast estate valued at $4,000,000 to
support institutions for orphaned and de-
serted girls of Denmark; at Jagerspris,
in North Zealand, it is the intention to
erect the central building of the institution
first, and to make it sufficiently large to
provide suitably for the maintenance of
six or eight hundred children.
	MRS. Sarah E. Bonney, of Sterling, Mass.,


has sent to the Centennial Exhibition, two
cases of choice articles. One case contains
twenty-five birds of different varieties,
from the humming-bird to the owl, all shot
by herself, and mounted, after being pre-
pared for that purpose, upon an imitation
branch of laurel. The second case con-
tains a muff, boa, and hat, made of duck's
feathers selected and arranged, and put on
in the most delicate and tasteful manner.
Also several bird-fans, with the wings
spread and the full size of the breast and
head of the dove in the center of each fan.
	"BLACK Swan," the celebrated and ac-
complished vocalist, died suddenly in Phil-
adelphia on Friday morning Apr. 14. Dur-
ing the last few years she had not appeared
before the public, except to sing at concerts
for the benefit of charitable institutions.
She was born a slave and was refused a su-
perior musical education on account of her
color. However by her own gifts of genius
she won the patronage of many distin-
guished people and ladies of rank in Eng-
land and throughout Europe and sang
before many of the crowned heads, receiv-
ing almost unlimited adulation and numer-
ous elegant and costly presents. Her name
was Elizabeth Taylor Greenfield, and at
the time of her death she was sixty-eight
years old.
	"MLLE. Bettina De Rothschild, daughter
of Baron Alfonso, head of the Paris House,
marries one of her Vienna cousins." The
reception in honor of the contract being
signed, was given March 19th. A great
amount was then given away in charity, as
well as in munificient presents. The
wealthy fiancee gave to five poor young girls
suitable dowries. This distinguished young
lady, at sixteen passed an examination for
a teacher at the Hotel de Ville, and several
other young ladies of the most wealthy
families followed her example, which was
certainly a commendable one, as changes
in life and governments sometimes reduce
even the wealthiest persons to comparative
if not abject poverty.


DO SOMETHING FOR YOURSELF
		AND YOUR COUNTRY.

	He who changes a waste place into a
blooming garden or fruitful field, he who
plants a tree, shrub, or vine, has performed
a lasting benefit upon mankind. These
may gladden the eye and heart of thou-
sands, may give food to the hungry, and
shade to the weary, and such acts are mon-
uments to their industry. He who pro-
duces the means to feed, clothe, or give
comfort, has done a good work, and thus far
has carried out one of the objects of his be-
ing. The man who creates one dollar from
the crude and otherwise useless material of
nature is more to be honored than he who
conquers a kingdom, and one who produces
from the soil wherewith to feed the hungry
and clothe the naked is greater in the scale
of usefulness, than he who by the profits of
trade and extortion becomes a millionaire.
Young men and old, be wise and seek out
wisdom and become proficient in all useful-
ness, but rather seek to create, than craftily
take a profit and living from what others
make from natures' elements.—Utah Pomo-
logist.


A HENPECKED husband said in extenua-
tion of his wife's raids upon his scalp, "You
see, she takes her own hair off so easily,
she doesn't know how it hurts to have
mine pulled out."


183		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				WOMAN.

	We think no word in the English lan-
<afad more="" extended:="" forrriiiitherbf'is;ari="" inex-="" pressible="" feeling="" connected="" with="" the="" word="" mother,="" andl="" bellpvo="" there="" is="" no.langu'age="" in="" all="" wido="" extension="" ,="" of="" human="" ideas,="" adequato="" to="" express="" finer="" feelingsiofour="" natures,="" which,well,="" up="" our="" bpsoma="" when="" simply,="" thinking.="" ;of.mother.="" ,tp="" her.avp="" trace="" being—itp="" her="" wp4,="" owe="" ou.="" exist-="" ence,="" and="" whatever="" pleasure,="" .or="" happi-="" noss="" .yfo.="" enjoy="" life..="" there,="" are,="" iew,yhp="" do="" riot="" fondly="" treasure="" reyery="" memento.-p-="" e'very="" association="" a="" mother;="" thqchai="" jn="" v)ilch="" she="" was="" accustomed="" tqs.t="" ls.hallowed="" qur="" affections,="" fiiqrinp="" from="" wnichsho="" drank,="" ring,she="" worp,.a="" tress="" clip="" silver="" hair,="" her'place="" at="" tablbor'jlre-="" side,="" a8="" weli="" a3="" every="" thing="" which="" phe="" has="" handled="" or="" touched,="" are="" held="" sacred="" arid="" stir"="" within="" innermost="" hearts="" deep-="" 'est="" most="" sublime="" 8eritimerits="" out'ria-="" tnres.="" td="" those="" who="" to-day="" favored="" with'="" ever-:watchful="" care="" kindly="" ex-="" pressions="" mothers="" 16vjc,="" fail="" ap-="" preciate="" the'same;="" t="" would="" fain="" shb'w="" them="" another="" scene.'="" yoriflrid="" your'every="" 'want="" supplied="" by="" assiduity="" one="" !nvho="" :="" enters="" 'ripon="" labors—not="" reluctantly,="" grudgingly—but="" trpleasurawo="" anx-="" iousness="" that="" leads="" you="" feel="" deserving="" of,="" aud="" right="" entitled="" .-avail="" this="" indescribable="" and.="" affectionate="" attention.="" have,="" met="" misfortune?:="" kind="" words="" of.="" mother="" will="" lift="" ydu:="" abovelit.="" have="" secret="" sorrows?="" mother’s="" sym-="" pathy="" .will="" lighten="" .them-,="" taro="" you,="" wear-="" ing.="" yourself="" away="" on="" a.="" .bed="" sipkness?="" softnnd="" gentle="" .hando="" a,="" mptheri="" jvill="" smooth="" youi;="" pillow,="" relievo="" your="" nffprlpgs="" administer="" pvery.="" wan’ri="" ..ier="" prpsencq="" slpk-room="" will,="" revive'="" render="" coucfi="" les="" intolerable.="" yqu="" unappreciative="" reeipieriof="" these="" ipnumeiibld="" klndriees="" through="" not="" haying;="" been,="" deprived,="" them...="" but'="" b="" change="" !comes,="" .="" over="" tlio="" houebbid.="" #="" th‘e="" 'motlier,="" worn,="" but.="" wary:(far="" never="" 'wearies="" edres="" life)="" begins="" fall="" and,="" though="" ribt="" willirig‘!="" 'to="" a.c-="" knowlbdgo="" it,="" strength="" gradudlly‘jbut="" siirely="" departing.1="" ch'eeririg,'nothing="" voice="" changed—the="" rosy-="" tirit="" has<faued="" cheek-her="" elastic="" tep="" 'wiiose="" echo="" wa&="" wont="" gladden="" evbry="" ‘heart,-is="" now="" slow="" measured="" tread,="" and-ina="" few="" short="" weeks,="" for="" whom="" worn="" life="" away,="" summoned="" around="" couch="" experisncculhe="" heart-rending="" anguish="" witnessing="" last="" fond,="" tender="" look="" whose="" mem'ory="" be="" cher-="" ished="" while="" consciousness="" endures,="" hear="" from,="" thosepale,="" ton'd="" lip="" ’a="" io'tier’s="" earnest1="" but="" almost="" inaudible'="" prayctfnl="" breathings="" heaven’s="" shibld="" guide,="" pomfortihqr,="" sopn="" jorpbaned="" darlings.="" werq="" lt="" fhat="" .the="" great="" crea-="" t%dn="" his="" wisdom.arid="" gpodness="" has.="" sq’yq'r-="" dained.in="" organization="" being,="" ;="" that-whqn="" brought'cq="" .to="" fiicq="" hvitfi="" pllth,="" sensitiveness="" "deserts="" ;nsl(arid,wd'.vo="" involuntarily="" thrown="" info="" r="" state="" ‘="" ofnaui-="" tion="" ip,="" wriaro="" deprived="" pf,thosesen-="" -sitivo="" attributes="" enable="" os="" to'realize="" i="" suffering,="" fewwpuld="" able.="" to.="" piss="" souhharrpwing="" ordeal.="" ...="" 1="" ';'fa'ffcr="" bold="" clbds-="" ‘th'umped'upon="" cofilnrid<tho‘littlp="" mounth-has="" been="" picply.plopcdjiandv.thp="" rustic="" board="" -with="" slmp.lol.nspnpfion,="" ha="" bpep.="" placedto="" thp="" ever,to="" bp.="" hallowed="" spot,="" tfiq="" heat-sqbr="" bing="" prpfians.="" )ve,qdiway="" their="" onco="" happy="" hearth-ptpne—but="" now,="" night="" sefs="" .in,="" all;="" oil.fesdlpmri="" sad—there="" ri="" vacancyjqo.="" fqrn="" can="" fill—d="" weird="" loneliness="" no="" voice,="" no‘music="" can'1="" pnilyln.="" ’tis="" fit-="" ting="" it="" should="" so.="" or-="" deld="" 'we="" arie'borri="" rihcw;="" holier,a’calrner,="" ariddlttiiorb="" rcflectivo'life.="" thriough="" wb'aroleddtb'-reficcttipori="" importance="" well="" -ordered="" life.="" througlr'lhlssw6="" ore="" taright="" to-foel="" thisfshorf="" span="" .ox="" istanco="" hero,="" only.,="" preparatory="" thoso="" who.pnduro="" faithfulness,.="" tofcmenter="" upon="" thereat="" future,="" we="" snail="" again="" meet="" thd'="" forid="" embrace="" wife,="" kindred="" friends,="" toiundorgp="" the.sad="" separation="" mortality,="" it.-#="" .1<'="" .m.'ji'snertoxi="" payson;'feb!="" 71h?="" 1870!:m,="" !'="" ’="" f'="" '="" h="" o="" ir.-i="" !="" :n<="" m-="" !<:="">guage expresses so much; or combines so
many tender, affectionate, sublime, soul-
stirring sentiments as this one word WO-
MAN.
	All the sublimity and divinity of our na-
tures are called into action when informed
that the new-born babe is a girl a future
woman. We follow her, in our imagina-
tion through the diversified scenes of femi-
nine life. We see her as the prattling, inno-
cent, trusting little sister, manifesting,
even in infancy, maternal affection and
tenderness towards her tiny dolls, and
gradually developing, while yet a child,
those sublime traits which characterize her
sex through life. If there exists in this
wide world, a soul so dead to humanity, as
not to be revivified, exhilarated and inspir-
ed by the tender associations of, even the
thought of a little girl, then join me, I pray
you, in the commiseration of that being.
	We see her sylph-like form, as she
blithely wends her way to school intent up-
on preparing herself for future usefulness—
yet manifesting the miraculous combina-
tion of her mortal and angelic nature in
pausing to admire whatever is beautiful,
and to select the choicest flowers by the
way-side with which to adorn the school-
room that it may be rendered more agreea-
ble to herself and to her school-mates; her
true nature manifesting itself in an effort
to comfort and cheer all with whom she
may come in contact.
	Next we see her blooming into maiden-
hood, the blush of the rose and the timid-
ity of the lily suffuse her cheek; still the
same confiding, cheering, solacing and af-
fectionate traits of character are displayed
in all her movements. We find her ever on
the alert to succor the needy, nurse the af-
flicted, comfort the miserable, and aid in
the various avocations of life. This is the
critical period of her existance—her trust-
ing nature leading her to confide in human-
ity she too often becomes the victim of
misplaced confidence, and when it is too
late, learns, to her sorrow, that all men can-
not be trusted.
	A word here for the consummate despic-
able wretch whose worse than bestial pro-
clivities leads him to betray the unwary
trustings of a maiden's heart. Let the an-
athemas and indignation of the upright
fall sorely, scathingly and effectually upon
his traitorous head.	Later, we see her kneeling at the altar
and assuming the responsibilities of wife-
hood. As a wife she is the guiding star—
the light and life of every home; for with-
out her there is no home. But with her by
the fireside, the beating storms may roar,
and bleak winds may howl and pile high
(in fantastic forms) the snow-flakes around
the cabin door, and yet there is comfort and
cheer within where the wife presides at
the family hearth-stone. To those who fail
to appreciate the tender associations of a
wife, allow me to introduce a man, who, at
the close of the day, weary and worn by
labor, is plodding his way toward his hum-
ble domicile. His limbs are weary, but his
heart is light, for he knows that a genuine
welcome awaits his arrival.

	For there's a bright light through the window,
		There is cheer and comfort within,
	As well as a heart he's akin to
		And a love restraining from sin;
	And he feels, though weary, delighted
		To know there is one on the earth,
	Whose soul with his is united
		In an union of infinite worth.
	As years roll around new faces appear,
		To gladden the pathway of life,

[Column 2]
	And fondly we cling to the loved ones so near—
		Our treasures, our children our wife.
	But, Oh! dark, sad and gloomy is all,
		When homeward the weary must plod
	And find no glad welcome, no light in the hall,
		When the loved one lies cold 'neath the sod.

	But it is as a mother that woman shines
in her brightest radiance. 'Tis here that
all her faculties are brought into requisi-
tion, and all the acquisitions of her former
experience are developed in a larger and
more extended form. There is an inex-
pressible feeling connected with the word
MOTHER, and I believe there is no language
in all the wide extension of human ideas,
adequate to express the finer feelings of our
natures, which well up in our bosoms when
simply thinking of mother. To her we
trace our being—to her we owe our exist-
ence, and whatever of pleasure or happi-
ness we enjoy in life. There are few who
do not fondly treasure every memento—
every association of a mother; the chair in
which she was accustomed to sit is hallowed
in our affections, the cup from which she
drank, the ring she wore, a tress from the
silver hair, her place at the table or fire-
side, as well as every thing which she has
[-]andled or touched, are held sacred, and
stir within our innermost hearts the deep-
est and most sublime sentiments of our na-
t[-]res. To those who are to-day favored
with the ever-watchful care and kindly ex-
pressions of a mother's love, and fail to ap-
preciate the same; I would fain show themanother scene. To-day you find your every
want supplied by the assiduity of one who
enters upon these labors—not reluctantly,
or grudgingly—but with a pleasurable anx-
iousness that leads you to feel that you are
deserving of, and by right entitled to all
this indescribable and affectionate attention.
Have you met with misfortune? The kind
words of a mother will lift you above it.
Have you secret sorrows? A mother's sym-
pathy will lighten them. Are you wear-
ing yourself away on a bed of sickness?
The soft and gentle hand of a mother will
smooth your pillow, relieve your sufferings
and administer to your every want. Her
presence in the sick-room will revive you
and render your couch less intolerable.
You are the unappreciative recipient of
these innumerable kindnesses through not
having been deprived of them. But a
change comes over the household. The
mother, worn, but not weary (for she never
wearies with the cares of life) begins to
fa[-]l and, though she is not willing to ac-
knowledge it, her strength is gradually but
surely departing. Her cheering, soothing
voice is changed—the rosy tint has faded
from her cheek—her elastic step, whose
echo was wont to gladden every heart, is
now a slow and measured tread, and in a
few short weeks, those for whom she has
worn her life away, are summoned around
the couch to experience the heart-rending
anguish of witnessing the last fond, tender
look of one whose memory will be cher-
ished while consciousness endures, and to
hear from those pale, fond lips, a MOTHER'S
earnest but almost inaudible prayerful
breathings for Heaven's care to shield,
guide and comfort her, soon to be orphaned
darlings. Were it not that the Great Crea-
tor in His wisdom and goodness has so or-
dained in the organization of our being,
that when brought face to face with death,
our sensitiveness deserts us, and we are
involuntarily thrown into a state of inani-
tion in which we are deprived of those sen-
sitive attributes which enable us to realize
suffering, few would be able to pass this
soul-harrowing ordeal.
	After the cold clods have thumped upon

[Column 3]
the coffin and the little mound has been
nicely sloped, and the rustic board with
simple inscription has been placed to mark
the ever to be hallowed spot, the heart-sob-
bing orphans wend their way to their once
happy hearth-stone—but now, when night
sets in, all, all is solemn and sad—there is a
vacancy no form can fill—a weird loneliness
no voice, no music can enliven. 'Tis fit-
ting that it should be so. Through this or-
deal we are born anew, to a holier, a calmer,
and a more reflective life. Through this or-
deal we are bron anew, to a holier, a calmer,
and a more reflective life. Through this
we are led to reflect upon the importance
of a well ordered life. Through this we
are taught to feel that this short span of ex-
istance here, is only proparatory for those
who endure in faithfulness, to enter upon
the great Future, in which we shall again
meet the fond embrace of mother, wife,
kindred and friends, no more to undergo
the sad separation of mortality.
						M. J. SHELTON.
	Payson, Feb. 7th, 1876.


SOCIETY.

	How can we express our ideas of a noble
woman's influence in society, or a good
mother's influence in the family circle? It
must prevail over the minds and hearts of
all those with whom she is associated.
What is it that first caused that inspiration
of goodness and greatness in men, which
we often read about, and who live to-day?
Almost invariably it was the great and good
influence of their mothers. A good wo-
man's influence in society, is greatly needed,
whether truly appreciated or not. Her val-
ue at many times is very much under esti-
mated, yet in some instances highly appre-
ciated.
	Our Woman's Cause, as we term it, is a
just one, our object is a noble one, and we
must seek to aspire to that laudable ambi-
tion for which we have started; and re-
member, where there's a will there's a way,
we have every encouragement to go on and
progress and improve. There is great space
for improvement, not only socially and re-
ligiously, but in our daily life; there are
none so good or great but can find room for
improvement; "Yet judge not that ye be
not judged," but may our great aim and ob-
ject in life be something that is worth all
our time and attention, and when we have
gained that great blessing, I think we will
be amply rewarded for our sacrifices as we
call them here below. And we will then be
prepared to enjoy the SOCIETY of our Fath-
er in heaven, which I hope will be our hap-
py lot.
					E. CROMPTON.
	Am. Fork, March 29th, '76.


LAUGH AND GROW FAT.

	The late Duchess of Devonshire grew at
forty very stout, like many other English
women, yet she retained her beauty. "How
have you kept your complexion so pure, my
dear duchess?" asked one of her fellow-la-
dies-in-waiting at the court of Queen Vic-
toria. "By dressing at ease and keeping
my temper," said the handsome duchess.
In France, where women have a natural
taste for what is becoming in dress, a
large woman wears ample draperies and
loose fitting garments, which make her look
and feel at her ease. No labored breathing,
no unusual redness, no fear of suffocation.
She is simply a large beautiful object, in-
stead of a pillow tied in the middle, with a
general air of asphyxia. Tight dressing
never makes a large woman look smaller.—
H[--]per's Bazar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	184


SUPERFLUOUS WOMEN.

	In a recent lecture Mrs. Livermore
made the following pointed and sensible
remarks:
	All through the land, in homes and out-
side of them, I find these women, unwed-
ded, in the vulgar parlance of every-day
speech called "old maids," with a shrug of
the shoulder, and a slight dash of scorn, in
the finer language of sociologists and essay-
ists denominated "superfluous women."
They have been brave enough to elect to
walk through life alone, when some man
has asked them in marriage whom they
could have loved; with white lips they
have said "no," while their hearts have
said "yes," because duty demanded of
them the sacrifice of their own happiness.
Their lives have been stepping-stones for
the advancement of younger sisters; they
have earned the money to carry brothers
through college into professions; like the
Caryatides of architecture, they stand in
their places and uphold the roof over a de-
pendent household; they invert the or-
der of nature and become mothers to the
aged, childish, parents, fathers and moth-
ers, whose failing feet they guide gently
down the hill of life, and whose withered
hands they by and by fold beneath the
daisies; they carry words of cheer and a
world of comfort to households invaded by
trouble, sickness or death. The dusty years
stretch far behind them; beauty and come-
liness drop away from them, and they grow
faded and careworn; they become nobodies
to the hurrying, rushing, bustling world,
and by-and-by they will slip out into the
gloom—the shadows will veil them forever
from earthly sight—the great surprise of
joyful greeting will welcome them, and
they will thrill to the embrace of the heav-
enly Bridegroom.
	Ah, Stewart, who from your $100,000,000
of earthly treasures have given $1,000,000
to the working women in a beautiful home!
Ah, Peabody, whose funds were princely!
Ah, Vanderbilt and Drew, who have put
millions into the endowments of schools
and colleges—these poor women have giv-
en and are giving more than ye all. For
out of your abundance ye have given but
little, and these "superfluous women" have
given their all—themselves, with their lov-
ing hearts, with their possibilities of hap-
piness, with their dreams of the future!
Ah, four-starred Grant and Sherman, not so
heroic was your march through the fearful,
bristling wilderness, and from Atlanta to
the sea, as is the lonely passage of life made
by many an unmated, woman, except as her
celibate life serves to point a jest, or add
cynical pleasantry to a story. Ye were
stimulated by the cheers and prayers of a
nation, while the gaze of the world fol-
lowed you. But the path of these women
was through the hot shot of ridicule and sa-
tire.
	Let us give to women such training,
physically, industrially, intellectually, and
spiritually, that we shame the word "su-
perfluous," out of the vocabulary, as de-
scriptive of women.  And this will help
men, and elevate them, quite as much as
any special work which might be done for
them, and thus collective humanity will be
benefitted, and a higher civilization be pro-
moted, for

	The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink
	Together, dwarfed or god-like, bond orfree.—Ex.


BAD lu[-]k is simply a man with his hands
in his pockets and his pipe in his mouth,
looking on to see how it will come out.


NO JUSTICE FOR WOMEN.

	Recently an officer presented himself and
a prisoner before Justice Wandell, at the
Yorkville Police Court, 'Well, Mary, are
you here again?' queried the magistrate.
'Yes,' replied Mary. 'You see I hadn't
been out for more than forty minutes when
this fellow gobbled me up.' 'Well, Mary,
I think I'll have to send you ——' said the
Justice. 'Now, look here Judge,' inter-
rupted Mary, 'am I drunk now?,' 'No,' re-
plied Justice Wandell; 'You don't seem to
be; but I'll send you to the Island for three
months this time.'" In this unjust and
positively illegal way are women treated
very generally by police justices. There
was no charge sustained against this wo-
man, yet she was sent to Blackwell's Island
for three months. In the daily Tombs po-
lice reports, it is noticeable that where men
and women are brought up for the same of-
fence, drunk[-]ness, while the men are often
let off with a reproof or mild threat, the wo-
men are almost invariably punished. A late
number of a New York daily, in its police
column, contained six arrests for drunken-
ness. Three of the culprits were men, and
three women. Every one of the men were
let off, and every one of the women were
fined or imprisoned, although the circum-
stances were precisely similar.—Ex.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cure for Croup.—A piece of lard as big as a
butternut, rubbed up with sugar; divided into
three parts and given at intervals of 20 minutes.—
B. C.
	Cure for Toothache.—Take a lump of lime as
large as a hickory nut, put it in a quart bottle of
water, and rinse the mouth with it frequently,—B.
C.
	For Sore Eyes.—Take two tablespoonfuls hon-
ey, teaspoonful salt, tincture of Balsam buds one
tablespoonful, teaspoonful gum pine. Make a paste
and put it over the eyes. A thin cloth to go on
the eyes first.—A Farmer's wife.
	To Cure White Swelling or-Scrofula.—Scrape
common [-]lder bark, bitter sweet mullen leaves—
equal parts. Boil together in a little water; then
put in a little golden seal. Stew all in fresh but-
ter and mutton tallow, equal parts, until well done.
Then strain and put back in pot, and put in bees-
wax and pine tar. Stew them all together. For
use, spread on a cloth and apply as a poultice.
	The Transfusion of Blood.—A Phila. corres-
pondent writes:—"I saw lately a letter written by
Charles Reade to a young lady medical student of
this city. She had written to him inquiring about
the case of transfusion of blood mentioned in his
novel, 'Griffith Gaunt.' He replied that the in-
stance was a real one, and gave the particulars of
the occurrence, also citing several authorities that
mentioned similar cases. He said that when
'Griffith Gaunt' first appeared he was assailed by
many members of the medical profession who did
not believe in the transfusion of blood, and accused
him of perverting the facts of science in his desire
to be sensational. He concluded by saying that
in defending his position he had become deeply in-
terested in the study of medicine, and desired his
correspondent, with whose professional aspirations
he had much sympathy, to keep him posted regard-
ing her researches on this particular subject, and
her general progress and success in her profession."
—Ex.
	Too Much Medicine.—Some one, writing on the
excessive use of medicine and the recuperating
power of Nature, says:—It would be utterly im-
possible to tell how many constitutions have been
impaired, how many digestions ruined, how many
complexions spoiled; and how many purses emptied,


through medicine. What is that you say—that a
stitch in time saves nine, and that the right medi-
cine quickly taken averts danger? Very likely.
I quite believe that. But in ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred, where is the danger? And what is the
emergency of the case? Medicine is often the
precursor of after misery; and the poor constitu-
tion has to pay dearly for its medicinal fillip. The
wiser philosophy of the present day is gradually
delivering us from these potent perils. Nature has
a self-righting power within her; there is a kind
of vis-medicatrix in the physical frame. Treat
the body kindly; let as much pure air as possible
get to the lungs, and as much fresh water as possi-
ble be applied to the flesh, and as much healthy
exercise as duty permits be given to the muscles,
and early rising as circumstances allow be afforded
for the recruitment of the brain, and then medi-
cine will be a very avoidable affair.—Ex.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Ginger Bread.—A good receipt for ginger bread:
—one pint molasses, one half cup butter, one-half
cup sour milk, two teaspoonf[-]ls ginger, one of
soda, two eggs, four cups flour.—F. W.
	Cheap Curtains.—One of the most agreeable
materials for curtaining windows is coarse un-
bleached cotton. The irregularity of the thread
and the roughness of the surface gives its soft folds
much the charm of a Russia crash, and its hue
warms the light of cool, North windows almost to
the glow of sunshine.—Housekeeper.
	Bean Porridge.—When the beans are skimmed
from the kettle to be put baking, leave a teacupful
or more of the beans in the kettle. Set the kettle
on the top of the stove where the beans will slowly
cook fine. Then season the broth with sufficient
salt, pepper and butter, to make it relish, and with
good Graham bread, it makes a soup fit for a king
or a dyspeptic.
	To Cook Oatmeal, Etc.—In cooking oatmeal,
hominy, wheaten grits, cracked wheat, or any of
those nice breakfast dishes, cook it in a covered
tin dish set in a kettle of boiling water; in this
manner there is no danger of scorching. Corn-
starch pudding, sca-moss, farina, and all other ar-
ticles mixed with milk, can be cooked in the sameway.
	Meat and Rusk Puddings.—Chop any kind of
cold meat with salt pork or ham, season it well
with butter, pepper and salt, and add two or three
beaten eggs. Then make alternate layers of wet
rusk crumbs, with milk, or cold boiled hominy or
rice, and bake half or three quarters of an hour.
Let the upper layer be crumbs, and cover with a
plate while baking, and when nearly done take it
off to brown the top.


TEACH CHILDREN TO SPEAK THE TRUTH.
—Children should be taught to speak the
truth, to hate a lie, and to be honest. It is
unsafe to leave any class of children un-
taught. It is not for the interest and wel-
fare of the community to do so. It is from
the ignorant and the vicious that the pau-
per and criminal element chiefly comes.
That is the burden which others are chiefly
taxed to support. It is chiefly from those
who have no healthful home training, no
church, no family altar, no Sabbath school.
There are many who get no correct notions
of right and wrong save what they get in
school. At home and in the street they
learn to lie, to steal, to fight, to get drunk,
to use vile language. There, by precept
and example they get a knowledge of evil.
It is more the duty of society to provide for
the right education and proper training of
all the children than it is to support the
paupers and take care of the criminals.
Prevention is better than cure.—Ex.


185		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITTLE LETTERS.

		GOSHEN, UTAH, March 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am a member of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association, and it is improv-
ing very fast. I am not fourteen years old
yet, but I think that these Associations are
the best things that was ever thought of
for the young girls and boys, and the young
people here take great interest in sustain-
ing them.
	I return my older sisters many thanks for
encouraging us. If we would obey those
who are placed over us we would become
useful and honorable women and pleasing
before God. I know I could be far better
than I am, and I mean to try, and as we
grow up our minds will become more
established. Many young people run the
streets and go to all the dances &c., and that
is all they think about, but we will try to
reform from all these things and do better
now. We "the young girls" ought to be the
Deseret humming-bee and work with one
accord to assist the Prophet of the Lord.
	Let us strive with all our might to be
pleasing in the sight of heaven.
		Yours truly,
				MARY ANN ROBERTS.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE CO. Apr. 8th, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We as a band of little girls in Wellsville
are organized into a Bible Society, and to let
you know that we are awake to our duties,
we thought, in our weak way, that we
would give you a synopsis of our doings.
	On the 21st of March we met for the pur-
pose of organizing our class at the residence
of Sister Ellen Whiton, President of our
Relief Society, and under her jurisdiction we
collectively nominated a President, four
Counselors, Secretary and Treasurer. We
hope through our united efforts to do much
good, and in place of spending our leisure
time in idleness, we wish to try to make
ourselves useful, and learn to fill our places
in life to the best of our abilities.
	I will add no more at present, but close
by saying we love to read the EXPONENT
and wish it every success.
	The officers send their kind regards.
					SARAH A. BROWN.


MISCELLANEOUS.

MARRIAGE.—In her evasive answer to the
Commons, in her reply to their petition to
her to marry, Queen Elizabeth employed an
energetic word, "Were I to tell you that I
do not mean to marry, I might say less than
I intend; and were I to tell you that I do
mean to marry, I might say more than is
proper for you to know, and therefore I give
you an answer, ANSWERLESS!"

	A GOOD story is told of a clergyman in
a Massachusetts town who forgot his notes
on a Sabbath morning, and as it was too late
to send for them, he said to his audience,
by way of apology, that this morning he
should have to depend upon the Lord for
what he might say, but that in the after-
noon he would come better prepared!

	RECENTLY an actor was married in Paris
whose name was M. Jaureguisilesbessadiere;
this reminds one of the princess who mar-
ried a Hungarian General, with a fright-
fully unpronounceable name; and when she
went out shopping she used to say in giving
her address, "I was (nee) born Princess of
Leon, but my married name I never could
learn it. Ask my servant he will tell you
what it is.


WE are apt to think this a pretty bad age
in which we live, but the age before it was
not altogether lovely. On the 8th of Octo-
ber, 1776, John Adams wrote to his wife in
Philadelphia: "The spirit of venality you
mention is the most dreadful and alarming
enemy America has to oppose. It is as ra-
pacious and insatiable as the grave. This
predominant avarice will ruin America, if
she is ever ruined. If God does not inter-
fere by His grace to control this universal
idolatry, to the mammon of unrighteousness,
we shall be given up to the chastisements
of His judgements. I am ashamed of the
age I live in."
	MR. Hamerton, in the Portfolio for March,
thus defines a lady: A lady is a woman who
clearly understands, and consistently practi-
ces, the refinements of a highly-civilized
existence; and the most real distinction be-
tween a lady and a woman who is not a
lady is, that one is more civilized than the
other, and more determined to preserve the
habits of high civilization, both in her per-
son and in those over whom she has au-
thority. These habits are not simply habits
of expense; it is cheaper to remain sober
than to get drunk, ann yet it is more lady-
like to be sober. It does not cost more
money to speak good English than bad, or
to be gentle than rude; yet a lady always,
from preference, speaks correctly and has
gentle manners.


[Column 1]
	THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.	
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

Now Receiving, at
TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments,  Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, NOtions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. l4th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
			Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
33, MAIN STREET,

[Column 2]
MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY’S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies' attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price. 	17, East Temple street.
		TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLAS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TO THE LADIES!

TAYLOR & CUTLER,
Have received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we
are selling very cheap.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done, Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take  payment. CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION 
or
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEARLER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 Frist South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1876.	No. 24.


For the EXPONENT.
QUEEN MAY.

		At last then thou hast come!
		The early flow'rs have blown,
We've woven for thy brow the lilies fair,
	Thy message floated hither on the breeze,
The perfume of thy breath was in the air;
	We heard thee softly echo in the trees,
And song-birds of the spring to welcome thee
		Poured joyous melody.

		Why shyly didst thou stay,
		Why linger on thy way?
Thy merry laughter echoed in the brook
	The music of a key-note soft and clear?
Near thou wert hiding in some shady nook
	Keeping time to the rythm of the year:
We were waiting thy glad coming to greet
		Nymph of the fairy feet.

		Thou pleasure seeking elf,
		Thinking only of thyself
Chasing butterflies and sporting all the day,
	Trailing garlands of bright flowers along,
To thy bower of roses lead the way,
	And tell us why thou hast tarried so long.
And what dost thou bring from thy home far away
		To welcome thy patrons Queen May?

		Thou brings't healing sunshine;
		The buds on tree and vine
Burst in bloom when thou reignest in thy power,
	Enchantress, Queen of Nature's Jubilee,
Thou has brought us beauty for thy dower
	And tuned the silent groves to melody;
And in gratitude we bless thy smiling face
		Which adorns earth's dwelling place.

	EMILE.
S.L. City, May 11, 1876.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				GOOD-BY.

	It is a simple innocent expression; one
would hardly think it could imply such
wondrous meaning, and veil behind it so
much of heart-ache and sorrow; carry so
much real pain into the hidden recesses of
the human soul. It is often lightly and
heedlessly spoken in a casual way, without
meaning, almost; and without thought.
For myself I prefer for common occasions
the more unpretentious good morning, or
good evening when parting for compara-
tively short intervals.
	Who has not felt the pang occasioned by
this little word when in parting with a be-
loved one, perchance to enter upon new
scenes, to tread other paths, (it may be
thorny ones) we see them go out from us
and we can only murmur "Good-by—God
bless you;" and we know that henceforth
we are not to be near to soothe, to bless; to
restrain, by influence, or affection. Reflec-
tion comes at such times to all, how or when
they will meet again. All the tenderness
of nature rises involuntarily to the surface,
and the best and finest feelings of the soul
go out after the dear one who is leaving us,
and in the great agony of our hearts we fal-
ter out the honest good-by.
	We would fain say more, the words well
up to our lips, our hearts throb painfully,
the tears are ready to gush forth unbidden,
restrained by our resolve to be brave we
force them back, though the torrent is ready
to burst; and clasp the hand to say the sim-
ple words of parting.
	How many good-bys can we recall when
no thought of death or estrangement has
[-]ashed upon the mind intuitively, each

[Column 2]
have gone their separate ways and have
met no more; or a[-]ter long intervals, when
all trace of the trust that once existed had
faded out, and the meeting was of strang-
ers; new incidents had crowded in their
path, new occupations and new scenes had
engaged their attention, and one or both,
had canceled the histories of the past days.
It is not easy to resume associations after
long years of separation, one can scarcely
take up the thread of life where they laid
it down; and tracing it through and through
bring it evenly down to the present.
	There are many good-bys that chill the
heart and freeze the current of of warm blood
for the moment, many that are only record-
ed by the guardian angels, so silent and un-
complaining the grief. We can all realize
more or less the infinite meaning of this
simple salutation; it often implies more
than it would seem to convey; and we can
not be too careful; in parting with those who
are dear, be sure and do so in kindness.
If there has been a mis-spoken word, a lack
of warmth or confidence, put it all aside,
hide it away never more to be brough for-
ward, bury it where no corresponding in-
fluence can ever arouse it, and let the time
of parting only call up memories of ten-
derness in its place. Never manifest indif-
ference at times like these, there is no vir-
tue in it, we are not a whit the less brave
because we express emotions.
	It is not disparaging either to man or wo-
man to be touched deeply at parting with a
dear friend, or relative. Many a warm
heart has been unwontingly chilled at the
indifference manifested at parting, when
perhaps underneath the cold exterior beat
true and honest love. We can only judge of
persons by their acts, it is impossible to
sound the depths of another's heart; and if
we would bestow happiness and leave pleas-
ant impressions in the minds of others and
have them carry with them recollections of
happy days that will always be comfort-
ing in absence, then say good-by not
in coldness, but with earnest sincerity ex-
pressing the good wishes it would convey
to the heart; that there may be no after-
pang should that good-by even be the last
on earth.
							AUNT EM.
	May, 7th, 1876.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	IT IS fully expected that Woman Suffrage
will shortly be debated in the Senate of the
United States.

	ON SUNDAY, May 6th, a terrible tornado
and rain storm passed over Leavensworth,
Kansas City and Chicago; the destruction
was great, and some lives were lost.

	MR. WILSON and Rev. Mr. Gledstone
have come to America as envoys from the
"British and Continental Federation, for
the abolition of Government regulation of
Prostitution;" to assist in preventing such
legislation in this country.

	THE QUEEN of England has now received
the title Empress. It is the opinion of
many that this fancy of the Queen was a
foolish one. The majority ruled; yet, it is

[Column 2]
said upon good authority that the minority
represented the highest intelligences, and
the truest greatness really, of the English
nobility.

	THE CORNWALL Times, N. Y., the Or-
ange Journal, N. J., and the New York
Observer, have each published strong edi-
torials, against the licensing of the social
evil. The New York Tribune has publish-
ed "Memorial" by Mr. Powell, and a letter
from a correspondent in St. Louis, showing
the evil that such license has caused in that
city.
	These writers receive the heartiest
thanks of all who are interested in the pre-
venting of vice and crime, and should re-
ceive the highest commendation from all
who love virtue; and desire to see a better
condition of society.

	CENTENNIAL INFORMATION.—Arrange-
ments are being effected under the super-
intendence of General Norton, of the Cen-
tennial Bureau, to supply information to
the country press. What he desires is to
have a copy of each paper sent to his de-
partment, commencing May 1st, and in re-
turn lie wil[-]supply information and electro-
types of the buildings for publication. Ad-
dress Gen. C. B. Norton, Centennial Bureau,
904 Walnut street, Philadelphia.

	A NEW building has been erected in Bos-
ton, situated on East Concord Street, called
the "Masachusetts Homoepathic Hospital.
It has been paid for, also the ground on
which it stands, mostly by the Ladies' Aid
Association and their friends, in fairs and
gatherings and by donation, during the last
few years. One of the Professors, Dr. Mary
J. Safford Blake, was elected during the
last year on the Medical Staff of the Hom-
oeopathic Hospital. This was done in re-
sponse to an appeal from the officers of the
Ladies' Aid Association, whereby patients
so desiring, could be attended by a woman
physician. Women students are accepted
upon the same conditions as men. In the
graduating class so far, women have carried
off the honors.

	ONE OF the admirers of the talent-
ed and celebrated English authoress,
George Eliott, gives a portraiture of her
appearance and surroundings. Her house
is surrounded by a high brick wall, and is
far from the street. The hall is furnished
in a foreign fashion lik[---] parlor and has a
grate and bright fire in cool weather; there
visitors leave their cards and wait to be an-
nounced. This hall opens into a large draw-
ing-room—here, the visitor says, Mr. Lewes
(the husband) met him at the door, led him
forward and presented him to his wife.
She is described as slender and of medium
height, an oval face, an abundance of hair,
doubtless, once fair, but now almost gray,
and questioning light eyes. Her dress was
of black velvet, finished at the throat and
wrists with rare lace, her only ornament a
Cameo pin surrounded with pearls. She
has a remarkably sweet and harmonious
voice, and her talk is most charming, though
decided and definite, yet she expresses her
feelings and opinions with a sincere defer-
ence to those of others. Her face in conver-
sation is wonderfully illuminated.


187		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association held in the 
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Apr.
15, 1876, was well attended and a spirit of
interest manifested by those who spoke on
the subject of home-manufacture, improve-
ment and self-culture. President Mrs. M.
I. Horne had been absent for some time
from them and remarked how happy she
felt to be once more with those who had be-
come so dear to her through these organiza-
tions. There were two Elders present who 
bore testimony to the good spirit manifested
and their faith in the power and influence
of woman for good.
	On the 30th of April the same Association
convened per adjournment at the same
place. The meeting was one of strong tes-
timony and general interest. The minutes
of the different Junior Associations, read
by the young secretaries were a good speci-
men of the great improvement rapidly be-
ing made among the young. The meeting
was dismissed abruptly on account of a 
threatening storm.

WILLARD CITY, BOX ELDER Co.,
	Apr. 15, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the young ladies of Willard City, were
organized as a Retrenchment Association
on Tuesday evening July 27, 1875, and we
are improving wonderfully. We have formed
resolutions as follows; and we are trying to
keep them to the best of our ability.
	1.Resolved: That as slang phrases and
by-words, as they are termed, are unbecom-
ing and not lady-like, we will refrain from
the use thereof.
	2. Resolved: That inasmuch as it is a
portion of the Word of Wisdom to abstain
from the use of tea, coffee &c. we will do
so.
	3. Resolved: That we will always dress
neatly and in a becoming manner, not in-
dulging in the foolish fashions of the world;
but will make our own fashions, such as
will be suitable for our health and comfort.
	4. Resolved: That we will spend our
leisure time in gaining knowledge from
useful books, and other healthful pursuits.
	5. Resolved: That we will refrain
from indulging in round-dancing, having
been counseled to do so, and believing it to 
be injurious to our health etc.
	6. Resolved: That if we have been in
the habit of speaking evil of each other
we will strive to do so no more.
	I think if we will observe these rules,
uphold the authorities in their office and
calling, and listen to the instructions and
good counsel given us from time to time, we
will find the treasure we are now seeking for,
even eternal lives.
	MARIA WOOD Assist. Sec.

SODA SPRINGS, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO.
	Apr. 11, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a line or two from our snowy
home would not be uninteresting to your
many readers, prompts me to write.
	Our winter has been unusually long and
severe, and very little signs of Spring yet.
We have been startled by twelve or four-
teen shocks of earthquakes, occurring on
the 5th, 6th, and 7th inst., doing no damage
however, more than to frighten a few people.
	Our Relief Society was organized on Feb.
5th, with the following named officers: Mrs.
Anna M. Folkemann, Prest., Mrs. Hannah
Raymond and Mrs. Mary Jane Sterrett, Coun-

[COLUMN 2]

selors, Doreth Lau, Treasurer. Our settle-
ment is small, yet we hope to do something
for the furtherance of the Gospel of our
Savior, and for the relief of the poor if any
should chance to come this way.
	Our Sabbath-day meetings are well at-
tended, as also our Fast-day meetings. We
have a day school in operation and, but few
dances.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT,
		I remain your Sister,
			M. J. STERRET, SEC.
PLAIN CITY, WEBER Co., Apr.
	29, 76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to let you know how we are get-
ting along with our Retrenchment Associa-
tion. We meet together once a week, open
our meetings with singing and prayer.
There are not many young ladies here in
Plain City, but there are a great many lit-
tle girls, who rise and bear testimony to the 
things of God.
	Our Retrenchment Association was organ-
ized the 16th of Nov., 1875, with the follow-
ing officers:
	Mrs. Emily Shirtliffe, President,
	" 	Mary Raymond,
	"	Burty Funk,
	"	Jane Stewart,
	"	Charlotta Green,		Counselors.
	"	Ameriam Stephens,
	Miss Annie Hansen,
	"	Margery Shomaker,	Sec'y's.
	"	Aggie Geddes, 
	Mrs. Charlotte Linderloff, Treasurer.
	We had a Leap-year Ball on the 16th of
March; the hall was beautifully decorated
for the occasion. Dancing commenced at 2
o'clock p. m., and closed at 10. We have
had no round-dancing this year.
	M. A. SHOMAKER, Sec'y.

HARRISVILLE, Apr. 25, 1846.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a report of an excellent meet-
ing held in this place. President Jane S.
Richards, her Counselors, Sisters' Harriet
Brown and Sarah Herrick, and three of the
young sisters, Harriet and Martha Brown
and Lettie Veera, also Prest. F. D. Richards,
Elder L. J. Herrick, besides a large num-
ber of brethren and sisters of this place
were present. A good spirit prevailed, and
much was said which was very encouraging
to the Society. We are not doing as much 
in financial affairs as some societies, but en-
deavor to look after the poor and afflicted.
Our Young Ladies' Society is doing well,
they hold their meetings once a week, and
are making great improvement which will
certainly be a great benefit to them both
now and in the later years; it will never be as
hard for them to speak of their religion in
public, as it has been for those who are old-
er, and who have been educated differently;
when I was young it was not customary for
the sisters to bear their testimonies in pub-
lic; it was a great cross for me to speak of
the principles of my religion even to my
own family; and my children have lacked
instruction that should have come from
their mother's lips. I would therefore ad-
vise the young girls to profit by my experi-
ence, and improve their minds in every-
thing that is good, that you may impart it
to your children, and so improve each gen-
eration, until we return back to the pres-
ence of our Father in Heaven.
	It is a great blessing to receive the EX
PONENT which is filled with the instruction
we need. I pray God to bless it, and those

[COLUMN 3]

who labor to bring it forth, that it may long
continue a welcome messenger to each good
family.
	Yours Truly,
	MARY E. TAYLOR, Sec'y.
	MELISSA A. SHIRTLIFF, Pres.  

ROCKVILLE, Apr. 16, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Association in this
place meet once a week and the young sis-
ters take great interest in attending meet-
ing and Sunday School, we have good times
and enjoy the spirit of the Lord; we take
one volume of the EXPONENT and appre-
ciate it very much. We intend having an
Excursion Party on May-day; the girls are
diligent in learning pieces and songs for
the occasion.
	We are organized the 2nd of last Feb-
ruary with thirty-eight members. Officers
as follows:
	Mrs. Henrietta Stout Prsident,
	"	Clindara Stout,
	Miss Charlotte Hall,
	"	Hannah Jennings,		Counselors
	"	Anne Palmer,
	"	Anne Parker,
	"	Margery Terry,
	"	Emma Jennings,		Teachers.
	"	Emma J. Brown,
	"	Ellen Langston,		Sec'y's.
	"	Emma Holladay, 
	Our resolutions are as follows:
	1st. Resolved: That we each take an ac-
tive part in our meetings and do that which
is required of us, and by our example show
that we really wish to become useful and in
telligent.
	2d. That we not only reform in dress, but
in everything that will tend to make us
true and noble women; by keeping good
company, choosing our words and practis-
ing politeness.
	3rd. That we will reform in our language,
by dropping all slang phrases, and words
that originate from the low and vulgar
class of people, and use that which will be-
come the daughters of the Latter-day
Saints.
	4th. That we strive to set an example
worthy of imitation by respecting the aged,
both by language and conduct, also respect
ourselves, and all who are worthy of it.
	5th. That we strive to be true Daughters
of Zion by observing the Word of Wisdom,
and informing our minds by reading useful
and instructive books.
	6th. That we will attend meetings and
Sunday Schools, and assemblies where good
instructions are given, that we may pre-
pare ourselves for the various duties that 
devolve upon us and help bear off the great
work in which we are engaged.
	ELLEN LANGSTON, Sec'y.


FIFTY-ONE societies, associations and
conventions have appointed Philadelphia as
a place of meeting this summer. The Wo-
man's Congress will hold its fourth meeting
there in October. The President of this or-
ganization is Prof. Maria Mitche[-]l of Vas-
sar. The last meeting was at Syracuse, New
York, in 1875. The subjects discussed were
science for women, the immediate needs of
women in their social and business rela-
tions, and the most effective methods of
remedying those needs. Art for women,
and the relation of women to crime and
criminals.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	188


WE CAN MAKE HOME HAPPY.

	THOUGH we may not change the cottage
		For many mansions tall and grand,
	Or exchange the little grass spot
		For a boundless stretch of land—
	Yet there's something brighter, dearer,
		Than the wealth we'd thus command.

	Though we have no means to purchase
		Costly pictures rich and rare—
	Though we have no silken hangings
		For the walls so cold and bare,
	We can hang them o'er with garlands,
		For flowers bloom everywhere.

	We can make home very cheerful
		If the right course we begin:
	We can make its inmates happy
		And their truest blessings win:
	It will make a small room brighter
		If we let the sunshine in.

	We can fill our home with music
		And with sunshine brimming o'er,
	If against all dark intruders
		We will firmly close the door;
	Yet should the evil shadow enter,
		We must love each other more.

	There are treasures for the lowly
		Which the grandest fail to find,
	There's a chain of sweet affection
		Bringing friends of kindred mind;
	We may reap the choicest blessings
		From the poorest lot assigned.

									ANONYMOUS.


[Column 1]
	SERIOUS REFLECTIONS OF THE
			OLD MAID.

      AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO
				HAL.

	What shall I say? I am afraid I can't
say anything. Here I am in the school-
room, with my spectacles all awry, and a
half dozen little urchins pulling at my cap-
strings to attract my attention; and one of
the little wretches actually had the audac-
ity to plant a solid little foot exactly on my
worst corn! Oh, but didn't I give him a
good shaking! He was aware that he had a
pair of ears for some time afterwards.
	Such things are so trying to the nerves;
especially when a person has arrived at the
age of thirty or thirty-five. Not very old
to be sure, but considerably past the age of
"sweet sixteen."
	Pardon me, I am digressing from my sub-
ject—Oh, but I hadn't selected a subject
yet, had I?
	Let me see! I am to write in a more se-
rious strain. You would prefer that my
communications indicated a sober and re-
flective mind. Now I am most desirious of
pleasing you, and feel confident that you
will experience the agreeable sensation, (of
being pleased) when you learn that I am
very sedate. In fact, scarcely ever smile.
You don't know: why I sit hour after hour
and study and reflect on such sublime and
elevating subjects, as Astronomy, Philoso-
phy Hygiene, and Matrimony. Don't you
see what a vast expanse of intellect I have?
I was going to say something right here,
but have forgotten what it was. Let it pass,
and perhaps I will think of it at some other
time. Unfortunately, the paper containing
your last article has been mislaid, and no
amount of searching will reveal its where-
abouts; so I am afraid I can not reply to
your questions in logical order. I believe
POLITICS was one of the subjects on which
you asked me to express my opinion. I

[Column 2]
take a little interest in politics, enough t
read most of the reports published in the
daily papers.
	Don't you pity poor Mrs. Belknap? It
must have been so humiliating to fall from
her high estate to such distress and shame.
I am rather Democratic in my tendencies,
but must confess that I am not well enough
posted at present to discuss the subject in-
telligently.
	I must confess a weakness for poetry.
Tennyson and Longfellow are my favorite
authors, my admiration being about equally
divided between the two. Tennyson's
"Elaine" is a sweet sad story, and "Enoch
Arden," especially the dramatization of the
poem, is really very touching, judging from
the lively manner in which the pocket-
handkerchiefs were flourished at the recent
presentation of the play before the Salt
Lake public. There were some very sus-
ceptible and sympathetic hearts beating in
my vicinity, I knew by the half subdued
sobs and pathetic sighs which I frequently
heard. I greatly admire Longfellow's
"Evangeline," but would like it better if
the termination was less sorrowful, and if,
instead of  finding the object of all her
hopes and affections only when she was dy-
ing, they had been allowed to end their
days in happiness. It seems too bad to suf-
fer them to remain so long apart when
Evangeline was seeking her lover in every
part of the globe, and he so near her some-
times that, had they only known it, they
might have spoken. The ending of the
"Courtship of Miles Standish" was so very
different; and left the principal parties so
happy. That was its chief attraction for
me.
	Don't you agree with me? I hope you
do, for I should feel perfectly distracted if I
thought you would disagree with me on
any subject.
	Music I can not say much about, except
that I am passionately fond of it. It recalls
by-gone days when I had a beau and he came
under my window one rainy night and
commenced playing "Captain Kidd" (that
was a popular song then,) on a cracked flute.
But sorrowful to relate, I mistook the float-
ing melody for the wail of a friendless and
forlorn member of the feline race, and as I
entertain a high regard for all such, I
thought on this occasion to entice the noble
animal to come to me, and for this purpose
opened my window and called in a melodi-
ous voice "puss! puss! puss!" To my in-
tense surprise I discovered that it was some
one serenading me, and endeavored to ex-
plain matters, and even offered an apology
for the mistake, but all to no purpose. The
gentleman seemed much offended and
would not listen to reason, and so departed
in high dudgeon. I wish I might add that
he went through life a lonely old bachelor,
but such is not a fact. He was married the
very next Sunday to "Aramantha Pepper-
corn," an awful 'or'nary young woman. But
as the poet states: "Such is life," and "We
all do fade as the leaf!"
	I entertain firmly grounded religious con-
victions, and my place at church is seldom
vacant, and then only when I am detained
at home by sickness. But how malicious
and envious some people are. Once when
I was detained at home by an attack of my
old foe, the rheumatism, it was whispered
that the real cause of my absence from
church was the loss of my set of new teeth.
The idea! Though of course they were
gone, and when my neice, 'Mandy, saucy
jade, came in and said she had found them
in my drawer, I had my own opinion; for
only the week before I had lectured her on

[Column 3]
the worldly-mindedness of this generation
and scolded her soundly for thinking o
staying at home from church just because
she hadn't her new dress finished, and told
her that on no account would I stay at
home.
	That I admire painting, my frequent vis-
its to the Art gallery attest. Botany is a
favorite study of mine. How do you like it?
	My article is already rather more lengthy
than I anticipated making it when I com-
menced. I will only add, that if you have
any pet theories to advance on any subject,
from the probability of an eclipse to the la-
test styles of spring hats, please give them
an airing, that I may decide how they co-
incide with my own opinions.
	Sincerely hoping that I have said nothing
to offend the nice sense of propriety I see
you possess.
				I remain as firm as ever,.
		THE OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
	April 23, 1876.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sartain and Mrs. Wormley, of Col-
umbus, Ohio, are both celebrated for en-
graving upon steel.
	MRS. Captain McCoy teaches practical
navigation. She resides in Madison Street,
Mew York City.
	MRS. D. B. Merrill, of Anamosa, Iowa,
has been appointed Chaplain and teacher at
the Anamosa Penitentitary. This is the
first instance of the kind on record.
	MRS. Mary A. Livermore, has been lec-
turing in the Western States on "Superflu-
ous Women," and other like subjects. She
is said to be one of the most impressive and
pathetic speakers, and a woman of the high-
est tone of cultivation and refinement.
	MISS Edith Story, daughter of the sculpt-
or, and granddaughter of Judge Story, re-
cently married Signor Peruzzi of the king's
household at Rome. Being a Protestant her
marriage could not be recognized as lawful
without sanction by the Pope; which it is
said is the first instance of the present Pope
granting such a request.
	MRS A. M. Diaz at the meeting of the
Moral Educational Society held recently,
read a paper, entitled "Can Nations
Stop Fighting and Shall We Continue to
Foster the War Spirit? Her ideas were to
show the inconsistency of Christian nations
warring, and that all difficulties "should be
settled by international arbitration."
	MADAME Guy-Lassac who has just died at
an advanced age, was a remarkable woman
in many respects. She opened a shop while
a young girl to support her father and fam-
ily who had lost their property in the
French Revolution. Her husband was then
a student at the Polytechnic school and be-
came acquainted with her through going to
the shop to make some purchases. He
found her intently reading a book, and in-
quired its title. She informed him it was a
"Treatise on Chemistry." He became in-
terested, fell in love, proposed, and was ac-
cepted. He was only a poor young man
then with a membership of the Academy;
but afterwards became a peer and a celeb-
rity. The lady was beautiful, witty and be-
came distinguished in society for her many
graces of mind; she was her husband's pri-
vate secretary.


OUR dead are never dead to us until we
have forgotten them.


189		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS, } Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 15, 1876.


HONOR AND DISGRACE

	A popular sentiment, and one which is often
earned so far as to be productive of grievous
wrong, is that which ensures worthless and
hurtful individuals, good positions in society,
because of their bearing relationship to honor-
able and illustrious persons; and condemns or
casts aside innocent and useful ones, because of
evils committed by family or other near rela-
tives.
	"He is really an estimable young man, and I
am sure he thinks a great deal of you," says
an elder sister to one younger, "but I would
not have you marry him for anything, because
of the disreputable character of his brother."
	And the mother says she knows "the other
young man is rather wild, smokes, and drinks
a little too freely sometimes, but he comes of
such a respectable family and is liked so much
among his friends and is so young, she believes
that in a few years he will steady down and be
a good a man as either of his brothers; and a
mild, loving wife would help him so much in
overcoming his boyish ways."
	Under these and similar circumstances, many
a blooming girl is led to bestow the wealth of
her fresh young heart upon, decidedly the
wrong suitor. Most likely honest, upright
man is cheated of the bride he might have
won and rendered happy; while she, poor, pa-
tient soul, is doomed to the terrible fate of a
drunkard's wife.
	In reflecting upon these points we may con-
sider what the Scriptures teach us concerning
God the Father, His Son Jesus Christ, and Lu-
cifer who was once a son of the former and
brother of the latter. Can we feel that any
honor attaches itself to the Evil One through
this family connection? Or is the lustre of the
glory which belongs to the Holy Ones dimmed
in the least degree because of that unworthy
member of the family who was cut off and
cast from their midst? We think not.
	Here arises another feature which being ta-
ken into careful consideration, proves the val-
idity of the assertion that "there are exceptions
to all general rules." A wose man said "Train
up a child in the way he should go, and when
he is old he will not depart from it." And tak-
ing this view of the subjuct, we blame the par-
ents for the child's misconduct. If parents
have failed to teach their children true princi-
ples, the beauty of holiness and the folly of
sin, then they are inexcusably to blame if the
children fall into error. But shall we believe
it impossible for one who has been carefully
and prudently reared, to loose self-control and
become a criminal?
	It frequently occurs that a man or woman
who has through some inadvertency or other
weakness, earned and reaped dishonor and self-


reproach, may be afterwards seen, striving
through humility and a well ordered life to re-
gain the lost treasures, respectability and peace
of mind. Then does it become the true gen-
tleman or lady, who may have had acquaint-
ance with the former life, to refer to, or seek to,
remember the blemishes thereof? Ah no!

	When scandal sleeps, Oh pray revive it not!
	Recall thou not sad memories else forgot:
	Let present good for evils past atone,
	Give honor where you may, let disrepute alone.


CHARITY.

	There is a vast deal said in this day about
charity, and judging from the writings of St.
Paul it was much-talked-of in his day. He al-
ludes to it as paramount to all the other gifts
of the Gospel. But is not this subject, like
many others, paraded before the world in a false
light? Probably there never were so many
charitable institutions and so much money
and means expended in this way as in this
age, which is called the age of enlightenment.
But that true charity which is full of compas-
sion for another's weaknesses and faults, of this
there seems to be a lack. To visit the sick, and
soothe and cheer them, to administer to want,
these are virtues; but to guide the erring, to
lift up the fallen, minister to the soul bowed
down by its own infirmities is a priceless bless-
ing. The principle is given, but little of the
practice. Propriety forbids it, (the world's pro-
priety) but the seeds of true and undefiled re-
ligion produces among other good fruit, a sen-
timent for which we have the Highest Exam-
ple, that of the Savior's life upon the earth.
	Giving money freely in a lavish way is not
always real charity; indeed it often leads to
serious evil and harm those upon whom it is
bestowed. It is easy charity; but to encourage
with kind words and deeds the unfortunate, is
food to the hungry soul. There is certainly a
lack of genuine charity now-a-days though
there is so much ostentatious parade about
it, and one cannot but feel ashamed to confess
like many other late inventions it is hard to
find the genuine article, but there are quanti-
ties of shams. It is worthier of a noble mind
where failures occur, to give credit for good in-
tentions, rather than for bad.
	These crude and cursory remarks may open
up to the reflecting a field of thought; but let
this suffice good friends, and as quaint old
Norris said: "These are our thoughts, we might
have spun the subject to a greater length; but
we think a little plot of ground, thick-sown, is
better than a great field that for the most part
lieth fallow."


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE TABERNACLE opened for the summer
season on Sunday May 7th, Elder Orso[-] Pratt
preached to the people. There were many
strangers present.
	We have received more reports of Relief So-
cieties and Retrenchment Associations than
we can publish at present, but will do so as fast
as practicable.
	THE FAMOUS minstrel troupe Billy Emerson,
the Paragon of mimics, Ben Cotton and others,
have again made Salt Lake a visit. Those who
have a taste for negro melody have been well
entertained.
	MRS. OATES is another contributor to our re-
cent entertainments. She is a lady of very
fine presence and well-grounded reputation in
the theatrical profession.
	THERE WAS a grand excursion to Lake Point
on Wednesday, May 10th, and a pleasant sail

[Column 2]
on the steamer to points of considerable dis-
tance. These excursions are very pleasant af-
fairs usually, and do one good after the tedious-
ness of confinement within doors during the 
winter.
	PRESIDENT YOUNG and party left the city on
their Southern tour on Monday morning, May
1st. A large number of relatives and friends
attended them to the terminus, returning on
the same evening. Saturday evening they
were in Parowan. And on Tuesday afternoon
the party arrived at St. George.
	The health of President Young has improv-
ed very much during the journey. The people
expressed great pleasure at their arrival. They
held a conference of three days commencing
on Friday, May 12th.
	THERE ARE a very great number of stran-
gers passing through and stopping to visit Salt
Lake and see points of interest in and around.
The probability is, being the Centennial Year,
we shall have many visitors during the season;
among some of the late arrivals were Senator
Sharon and party; Mr. Shillebar of Boston the
humorist etc. (Mrs. Partington).
	THIS NUMBER completes the fourth volume
of the EXPONENT. We would say to our friends
and patrons that we had anticipated making
some change, but circumstances will not ad-
mit of it at present. We hope our agents and
those interested in the Woman's paper will be
prompt in renewing their subscriptions for the
fifth volume.
	In regard to its outward appearance, politely
alluded to by one of our profession, we can only
answer that we patronize the home production
of paper, and believe it to be to our best inter-
est, although we acknowledge our taste would
lead us to choose a superior quality; but we
hope ere long the paper made in Utah will
equal that imported from abroad.
	WE HAVE received through the politeness of
R. Matthews & Co., a specimen of writing fluid
which is equally good in color and quality to
any imported ink in the market; indeed we
would prefer it to Arnold's celebrated fluid.
Also a bottle of Jamaica Ginger carefully pre-
pared under the same Chemical Director, Prof.
J. L. Barfoot, well known as a man of science
and skill. We feel safe in saying that it is
as good a preparation as any of the kind we
have ever used, and we take pleasure in recom-
mending to the public these articles prepared
at home feeling it is the duty of the Latter-
day Saints to lend their influence and support
to encourage as far as it is possible every de-
partment of manufacture which will help to
make this people self-sustaining. Otherwise,
it will be impossible to build up Zion for there
is a vast amount of temporal work to be done.
This manufactory also make the famous toilet
sand soap. We wish them success in their no-
ble enterprise and hope they will receive the
patronage of the people.


WOMENS' CENTENNIAL FAIR.

	All those who design furnishing specimens
for the Territorial Fair will do well to forward
soon as convenient--before or by the middle of
June. It is anticipated that the Fair will be
opened on, or before the first of July in the
"Social Hall, S. L. City. Specimens to be
sent to Sister E. R. Snow, Lion House, as
heretofore specified.


IN the San Francisco Mint there are man-
ufactured in the Coiner's Department dur-
ing the year at least $30,000,000, including
gold and silver of every description. Of
this amount the greater part is $20 pieces
or double eagles.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	190


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				A DEFENSE.

	My object in this short article is to do what
my poor ability can, in taking up the cudgel,
(the pen) in support of my sisterhood. Not
that I would infer for a moment women were
angels—far from it; much less wonld I echo
the prevailing cry in this country, at the pres-
ent time, that "woman's extravagance is ruin-
ing the nation." It is the self-same tale oft
told, that of sneaking behind woman's skirts to
hide their sins. Who has held the reins of
power in this nation, and with despotic sway
crushed woman into littleness, talked of her
"weakness, her frailties, her proneness to fall,
bah! It is sickening. This is man and manli-
ness; women are not accountable; this is man's
creed; but when trouble comes women are at
fault.
	In juxtaposition with woman's jewels, dia-
monds etc., place man's "debts of honor, and
Champagne," and I will venture to say that
they will overbalance by a very considerable
sum.
	When one takes into consideration all the
ways and means men have of spending money
outside of woman's precincts, they are not few
I assure you; betting, horse-racing, Champagne
suppers, and all sorts of specculations in stocks
etc., with many other MANLY amusements
and occupations; woman's dress falls low in the
scale of expenditure.
	Apropos of woman's dress etc. Why do wo-
men dress so elaborately? I would ask the
question, answer it who will. How much in-
fluence can women have in the world without
this outside attraction? Even here at home in
Zion where we profess to live under a better
and higher influence, those (who have eyes)
can see every day enough of this Babylonish
custom to discourage such as are not self-de-
termined enough to face opposition, and do
right let what will transpire. Then what can
be expected of those who cannot look forward
to the future for the reward of self-denial?
These women have been trained to live for ad-
miration, and man sustains it by his own vol-
untary practise. It takes a vast amount of
courage to be economical under such circum-
stances; but notwithstanding, women are ever
more ready to make sacrifices than men.
	If husbands and fathers were more commu-
nicative with their families it would be vastly
to their interest in many instances where fail-
ures occur through extravagance. Wives and
daughters are often kept in total ignorance of
the looked-for emergency, and in the last ex-
tremity are perchance informed of it through
the press, or by indiscreet persons.
	Whether it is pride or fear that makes men
silent towards those who must suffer most un-
der pecuniary embarrassment, I am unpre-
pared to say; but I will say, though I believe
in woman fulfilling every duty and obligation
so far as it is possible for her to understand, I
also believe that a man should allow his fam-
ily to understand his circumstances pecuniarily,
that they may not involve him in embarrass-
ments ignorantly. To indulge a wife or daugh-
ter in luxuries and elegancies which are incon-
sistent to one's resources is as much a fault as
to indulge children to their injury, simply, be-
cause one is too weak to say no, and persist in
the right.
	If men believed women were ther equal part-
ners in the matrimonial union, then they
would be willing surely to give them their
confidence in all matters pertaining to the fam-
ily interest. Long continued custom and false
education have made it otherwise and it will

[Column 2]
take time and untiring efforts to accomplish
this much to be desired purpase.
	There are earnest workers in the field who
with all the sublime and magnanimous cour-
age of heroes are laying the foundation of re-
form; willing if necessary to incur the odium
of the opposite sex, that they may benefit their
own, hoping and praying that ere long men
may see it is for their best interest that wo-
man should become a responsible party.
									EMILE.
	S. L. City, May 10th, 1876.


HUMILITY.

	The word humility as defined in the
English Dictionary is modesty or freedom
from pride. Jesus said, "except ye become
humble as a little child ye can in no wise
enter the kingdom of God." We also have
the promise that if we approach our Heav-
enly Father in humility of heart He will
hear and answer our prayers. Humility
teaches us that if we have wronged any
one we must go to them penitently and ask
their forgiveness. We are taught in this
church to live humbly before the Lord from
day to day. There are people who allow
their pride to over-rule their judgment.
They are so blinded with pride that they
cannot see rightly those things which in
reality are intended for their benefit; they
look upon labor as degrading and beneath
them, they are too proud to become self-
helpful, and scorn those who are seeking to
be self-sustaining. There is a certain hon-
est pride that is necessary to constitute a
truly noble man or woman. We ought
to have dignity enough to conduct ourselves
with decorum, to choose good company and
to preserve our self-respect, by being cleanly
and neatly clad in a becoming manner. I
can assure you, it is neither dress nor fash-
ion but true merit alone, that makes a really
noble woman; one who carries herself cir-
cumspectly, who has the love of God in her
heart; and a love for everything that is great
and good. No real gentleman or lady will
scorn a person because they are poor. What
is more beautiful than a modest, unassuming
girl, one who is thoughtful of others, who
visits the poor, sick or needy, to comfort
and succor them.
	I pray God to bless the daughters of
Zion, with wisdom, and understanding
hearts, that they may live so as to claim all
the blessings that the Saints of God are
heirs to.
					MARY A. SANSOM.
S. L. City.


FLORAL HINTS.
	The landscape gardener of Hartford,
Conn. says the management of lawns in
America require a deeper and richer soil
than England to maintain a continued
green through the summer. Deep tillage
and manuring are the foundations of suc-
cess; the soil should be uniform in texture
and quality to prevent spots. Sow in
freshly mellowed soil, and if there are any
annual weeds sow in autumn that the win-
ter may kill them. Roll in Spring old or
new lawns. Avoid coarse and lumpy man-
ure, and apply as a surface dressing finely.
powdered compost, or a mixture of guano
and superphosphate of lime. Keep the
grass cut short from the first and it will
cause it to grow thick and dense. Never
allow the grass to grow tall to cut for hay.


SPLINTERS

				GENERAL
	Horace Greeley's homestead at Chappa-
gua was burned April 14th; the loss was
small; it was untenanted......A. J. Stuart's 
will left $1,000,000 to Judge Henry Hilton,
and the remainder to his wife except some
small bequests......The Harlem Railroad
Campany will put on ten extra trains daily
between the Grand Central Depot, (New
York City) and Williamsbridge, after May
15......The Centennial Exhibition will not
be open on Sundays......Kentucky is ship-
ping black-walnut to Europe......The small-
pox is prevailing to an alarming extent in
Perkinsville New York......The Irish citi-
zens of Albany will parade through the
streets of Philadelphia July 4th, in an or-
ganization called "Mitchell Guards"......
The establishment of a Chinese laundry, at
Roseburg, Oregon, is causing great excite-
ment there, it is said the Celestials are arri-
ving rapidly......The Mohawk Woolen Mills
were closed three days in respect to the late
A. T. Stewart......The Missouri river is
higher at Burlington, Iowa, than in the
great flood of 1858......Mr. Moody has closed
his labors in New York......Mr. August Bel-
mont, of New York opened his gallery of
paintings on the 25th and 26th of April for
the benefit of the Woman's Centennial
Union......Immense damage has been done
by the overflow of the Missouri river to
railroads and other property......Prarie fires
are destroying the timber lands of West-
ern Texas......The recent census of Phila-
delphia gives a population of 817,448......A
new station has been opened on the Hudson
River Railroad, called "Oscawana," located
between Croton and Crugers.
				PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Scott Siddons sailed from San Fran-
cisco for Sydney, Australia, on the 30th of
March......Miss Braddon the novel writer,
thinks of making a tour in this country and
giving public readings......A plaster cast of
the features of the late A. T. Stewart was
taken directly after his death......Mr.
Charles Reade will be one of the contribu-
tors to the "Belgravia Magazine" under
the new management......President Prado
of Peru arrived at New York City Apr. 11,
he was escorted to his hotel by a delegation
of the most eminent citizens......Hans
Christian Andersen's books, manuscripts,
autographs etc. will be sold at auction in
Copenhagen for the benefit of the "Ander-
sen Children's Home"......Count Favernery,
long Secretary Legation at Washington,
has been appointed French-Minister to Bra-
zil.
				FOREIGN.
	The plauge has again broken out in Asia-
tic Turkey......It is said by leading members
of the Moderado party that Queens' Isabella
and Christina will soon return to Spain and
occupy the Palace of Alauyez......Col. En-
sique Lara is appointed Secretary of the 
Peruvian Legation in London......The ar-
mies of Guatemala and San Salvador are
near each other at Justiapa, the former with
8,000 the latter with 9,000 men......A school
of mines is to be founded in Peru to for-
ward the mining interests of the Republic
......A contagious disease among cattle is 
prevailing in many parts of Europe......It
is rumored that Montenegro has declared
war against Turkey......Russia, Prussia and
Austria have decided to leave the Eastern
question as it is for the present......V. R.
B. E. I. I. are the new Initials of the
Queen—"Victoria Regina Britannia et ln-
dor[--]n Imperatrix......Liverpool, Eng. is to
be supplied with water from Lake Winder-
mere at an enormous cost.


101		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
      IMPROMPTU IDEAS OF HOME.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"Home, gentle name, I woo thee to my song,
	To thee my praise, to thee my prayers belong;
	Inspire me with thy beauty, bid me teem
	With gracious musings worthy of my theme:
	Spirit of Love, the soul of Home thou art[-]
	Fan with div[---]thoughts my kindling heart;
	Uphold me, bless me to my holy task."

	This subject is one which should interest
every living person; for it is one which has
power to touch the intricate depths of the
human heart. It is worthy a niche in the
immortal temple of Fame.—Nay I am well
aware that the subject has been descanted
upon by the most learned and proficient
writers and poets; and artists have design-
ed, sketched, and illustrated in every vari-
ety of form, phase and surroundings, its
beauties and physique. Nevertheless though
the ground has been pre-occupied, though
the flag of other nations of writers has
floated over it; yet who shall hinder the
free exercise of one's thoughts, and even if
they bear a similarity to another's they are
none the less our own.
	"Prose and verse are allowed to have
some distinguishing differences, at least in
termination."
	When some pretty fancies, of the pleas-
ures or pains of home come crowding upon
the mind, who shall say we may not enter
the same field of labor, and indulge in ran-
dom thoughts, taking our own view of the
homes of the multitudes, with some of the
elements of comfort to be sought by all.
We may bring together a few shreds of
thought which perchance may awaken in
other hearts, feelings and impulses sympa-
thetic with ours, which now lie dormant, and
which, perchance they have not the force to
bring into being and and clothe in words.
	It is not alone wealth or its appendages
that will supply the real substantial ele-
ments of a true home. One will say it is af-
fection, granted that is requisite, there is
another talisman whose absence from his
post will leave home comfortless—it is duty.
If one does not look upon home as a place
in which there is not only pleasure and
peace to be found, but duties to be perform-
ed; then farewell to contentment at home.
These duties and obligations may devolve
more largely upon the wife and mother,
than other members of the household, but
none are exempt, it is a part of all. There
are certain duties in the home relations,
which unfulfilled leave the heart and home
both desolate; affection dwindles to a liv-
ing death, more exquisitely painful to the
sensitive soul, than the physical death of
the body.
	What earthly interest is more sacred to
husband and father than to make his home
the dearest spot on all the earth by adapting
himself to the surroundings of the home-
sphere, and elevating it to the embodied
ideal of the home which all long to rest in
when tired with the bustle, fatigue and ex-
citement of the "work-a-day world."
	Should any person allow themselves to
devote all their energies and time in pur-
suit of any external object or influence so
far as to ignore, or lose their interest in
home life? Who has a better claim to
know something of the SOUL of the man
whose name they bear than the wife and
children?
	The most important questions of the day
(so considered by the world at large) "Re-
[-]or[--], Temperance, The Woman Question,',
as well as many others, all point significantly

[Column 2]
to HOME; and whatever evil transpires is
traced almost invariably to the mother and
the home influence. Then in the name of
justice, reason and common sense, let WO-
MAN be fortified and strengthened by every
possible advantage, that she may be ade-
quately and thoroughly fitted not only to
grace the drawing-room, and manage every
department of her household, but to per-
form with skill and wisdom the arduous
and elaborate work of molding and fash-
ioning the fabrics of which society is to be
woven.
	We are all mortal, and more or less sus-
ceptible to outside impressions, and those
who strive diligently and faithfully to do
their duty, need sometimes a word of com-
mendation and encouragement. There are
a class of women, true hearted, and unap-
preciated, who devote themselves unself-
ishly, soul and body to household duties
ONLY; never allowing themselves pleasure
or recreation outside their domestic avoca-
tions, who live a life of abject slavery, nev-
er seeming to find a sure path out of the
labyrinth of darkness, doubt and uncer-
tainty in which circumstances have envel-
oped them. I will not take time to enumer-
ate causes, they are well-known, and IN-
TEMPERANCE is one of the worst causes;
yet there are many others, too numerous to
mention. I would not draw the picture of
these desolated homes, it is too soul-harrow-
ing—where broken vows and aching hearts
are the result of duties unperformed and
obligations unfulfilled. Such homes are
scattered broadcast all over the land, and to
all who are interested in humanity it is
painful.
	No wonder that sharp-sighted, far-seeing
and high-minded women are "beginning" to
seek out some remedy for the injustice
done their sex. Woman should be suffi-
ciently capable of protecting her true inter-
ests and allow no invasion of her God-giv-
en rights.
	Men are every where willing to acknowl-
edge home is not home without the pres-
ence of WOMAN. Ask the poor out-casts
whom the world turn from in scorn, what
would give them most satisfaction, they
will tell you a home. Then after all is not
one of the most important questions of the
day, the HOME QUESTION?
	About our homes let our best affections
centre, make them attractive to our child-
ren and friends, be courteous and polite to
those of our own household, cultivate cheer-
fulness and good humor; and let the inter-
ests of home devolve upon all, let it be mu-
tually shared, and the burden will be light-
ened; let duty, stands guard, as a sentinel,
whispering to us at all times the obligations
we owe each other. The better in every
respect the homes of the people, so in pro-
portion will society and governments be, for
from these homes must the future rulers of
the nation come.
	S. L. City, May 4th, 1876.


PRAYER

	Prayer, what is it? The mere matter of
form of kneeling down and repeating some-
thing you have said over a hundred times
before, and all the while your mind is oc-
cupied with something else, some enjoy-
ment you have had or going to have, or 
something foreign to that which you are
engaged in; is this Prayer? No, this is
mockery. The poet says, "Prayer is the
soul's sincere desire uttered or unexpress-
ed." then when we pray we must be sin-
cere and pray for things that we need. We
can ask in a few words for all the blessings


we stand in need of; and thank God for the 
blessings of the Gospel and all other things.
There is nothing more pure and angelic
than a prayer when uttered with an earnest
and contrite heart. When we feel discour-
aged or down-hearted we should go to our 
Heavenly Father and ask for strength to
overcome all temptations, and endure all
trials, and when we ask in faith believing,
we will be sure to receive that which is
for our best good, for Jesus said; "ask and
it shall be given." We do not always need
to go to our room to pray, we can pray in our
hearts just as earnest if we are humble and 
live pure lives. Jesus said: "Pray without
ceasing that you enter not into temptation."
How needful that we should do so, for there
are many snares laid to lead us astray, but
if we keep a prayerful spirit we will be sure
to prevail against them. It is by prayer
that we receive the gifts and blessings of
the Gospel. It is by prayer that we receive
the knowledge of whether we are in the 
right channel or not. It is by prayer that
we are enabled to live faithful.
	Then let us be prayerful and ask our Sav-
ior who set us the example of prayer, to
teach us how to approach God in humility
and faith.
					SARAH MCKEAN.


PLAIN WOMEN.

	Among women of exalted rank who have
been wanting in beauty are Margaret of
Sweden, Matilda, Empress of Germany, and
Christina of Sweden. Fulvia, wife of An-
thony, had few personal charms; nor had
Terentia, wife of Cicero, if one may trust
to the majority of historians; but most of
these have found some admirers among bi-
ographers. Neither Anne of Cleves, nor
Catherine of Aragon was good-looking; still
for a while they swayed the fickle heart of
their Bluebeard husband. Queen Anne was
a dowdy, graceless woman in her best days.
Cromwell's wife was plain. When Queen
Anne of Bohemia came to India as a bride,
there was a pageant at Cheapside of a cas-
tle with two towers, from both sides of
which ran fountains of wine; and we are
told that the beautiful girls who blew gold-
leaf in the faces of the king and queen
caused the plain bride to look plainer; yet
she made her way in the good graces of
king and people.
	In France the gay and pleasure-loving,
plain women have gained many laurels.
Madame de Stael is a memorable instance,
though no one was more conscious of her
personal defects. Even her name was a
power in itself. The great Napoleon conde-
scended to be so jealous of her influencethat no persuasion would induce him to al-
low her to return to France. Mademoiselle
de Lespinasse, one of the most fascinating
women of her day, who exercised a mar-
vellous influence on those around her, was
marked with small-pox. Madame Geofirin
was a plain woman. Madame d'Epinay was
neither beautiful nor clever, but most at-
tractive. Madame de Mailly was the plain-
est woman of the Court. Maria Leczinski,
daughter of Stanislaus, King of Poland,
wife of Louis XV., was plain, but interest-
ing; and that famous Palatine Princess, sec-
ond wife of Philip, Duke of Anjou, brother
of Louis XIV., and mother of the Duke of
Orleans, the regent during Louis XV.'s mi-
nority—a woman who exercised more sway
than any of her time—was coarse of fea-
ture, and so ungainly that her large hands
passed into a proverb. She was of mascu-
line habits, clinging to the customs of Ger-
many, and wore a short, close wig like a
man's.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	192


HINTS TO GIRLS.

	An old stager who has been through the
mill, gives the following parental advise to
the girls:
	Take lessons on the piano and learn to
paint and sing, but let your mother do the 
washing.
	Do worsted work, and make nice little
neckties for the heathen, but don't acquire
that mystic art to cook "pork and beans."
	Go to boarding-school and pursue some
French, Spanish and German, but neglect
your good old mother English.
	Flatly deny the soft impeachment that
you are engaged. Treat your beau pre-
cisely as if you were ashamed of him. It 
is complimentary anyhow, to the young
sprig.
	When you laugh, laugh hearty. Your
gold fillings may be seen. It is a card for
the dentist.
	Tell people who are posted, and conse-
quently know better, that you are exactly
nineteen last or next summer, you forget
which. They'll believe it, you know.
	Say naughty things of your rival and
next-door neighbor, and speak disparag-
ingly of Miss Q's nose. But entirely over-
look your own incongruities.
	By all means "tote" a nice little dog af-
ter you on the street. There is a chance of
your being taken for some one else, while it
speaks volumes—for the dog.
	Walk four abreast and keep the centre of
the side-walk, but never for a moment al-
low yourself to be disconcerted. It shows
consideration for the happiness of others.
	Finally, quit being girls by marrying
some bald-headed buffer, with lots of "tin,"
and ruthlessly thrust aside a man of brains
with a becoming competency.—Rural New
Yorker.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Darkness in the Treatment of Small-Pox.—If a
patient in the beginning of the attack, be put in-
a room from which absolutely all light is excluded,
save that of a candle, the effect is to arrest the
disease in the papular or vesicular stage; the skin
between the vesicles is never inflamed or swollen;
the large scabs of matter never form over the face;
there is no intense pain and only trifling itching,
and the smell is either very light or altogether
wanting.
	Celery for the Nerves.—A writer who is famil-
iar with the use of celery says that he has known
several men and women, who, from several caus-
es, had become so affected by nervousness that
when they stretched out their hands they shook
like aspen leaves on windy days, and by a moder-
ate daily use of the blanched footstalks of celery
as a salad they beeame as strong and steady in
limb as other people. He has known people
cured of palpitation of the heart by the use of
celery. Everybody engaged in labor weakening to
the nerves should use celery daily in its season,
and onions in its stead when not in season.
	Cure for Cancer.—I have known several that
have had cancers cured by the following remedy:
—Take ashes (those from red oak bark are the
best) a[-]d get lye that has been filtered through
them twice. Now boil the lye down until it be-
comes as thick as mush and take as much as may
be needed and add six grains of corrosive subli-
mate. Stir it well and let it remain until it is
done blubbering. Now take it off the fire, and let
it stand till it is cool enough to handle with the
fingers. It will be something like grained sugar.
In handling it the hands should be very dry. Now
break it in pieces and put in a glass vial, keeping
it from the air and from all dampness. In ap-


plying it to the cancer, put it on cotton or a sponge
and hold it to the cancerous part, say ten minutes.
The cancer will be killed and come out gradually.
—J. B. W.

	Sleep the Best Stimulant.—The best possible
thing for a man to do when he feels too weak to
carry it through, is to go to bed and sleep for a
week if he can. This is the only true recupera-
tion of power, the only actual recuperation of
brain force. Because during sleep the brain is in
a state of rest, in a condition to receive and ap-
propriate particles of nutriment from the blood
which take the place of those which have been
consumed in previous labor, since the very act of
thinking consumes, burns up solid particles as
every turn of the wheel or screw of the splendid
steamer is the result of consumption by fire of the
fuel in the furnace. The supply of consumed
brain substance can only be had from the nutritive
particles in the blood, which were obtained from
the food eaten previously, and the brain is so con-
stituted that it can best receive and appropriate to
itself those nutritive particles during a state of
rest, of quiet, and stillness in sleep. Mere stim-
ulants supply nothing in themselves; they only
goad the brain, force it to a greater consumption of
its substance, until that substance has been so ex-
hausted that there is not power enough left to re-
ceive a supply, just as men are so near death by
thirst and starvation that there is not power enough
to swallow anything, and all is over.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I feel grateful to my Father in heaven for
His preserving care over me unto this day.
I know that my Redeemer lives, and will
bless all who come unto Him. I know the
promises of God are to the faithful. I de-
sire to make myself useful in helping to
build up the Kingdom of God in the last
dispensation.
	Our Relief Society, here in Moroni is
prospering; the sisters all seem alive to
their duties. We have done a great deal
for those who could not help themselves.
We also have a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association. They seem to have a
desire to do good and to improve in all good
works.
	When I look back and think what I have
endured the thirty-three years that I have
been trying to live the life of a Saint, I
must say that it has been a good school of
discipline for me. When I was in Nauvoo,
and could sit under the sound of Joseph
Smith's voice, I thought it was grand, and
so it was; but we knew but little then in
regard to what would transpire in the last
days.
	Sisters, I exhort you to be faithful in the
church and kingdom of God.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel of
Christ.
						SARAH JOLLY.
	MORONI, SANPETE CO., Feb. 26, '76.


"BLUE STOCKING."—This term is appli-
ed to literary ladies, and was originally con-
ferred on a society of literary persons of
both sexes. One of the most active promo-
ters of the society was Benjamin Stilling-
fleet, the distinguished naturalist and mis-
cellaneous writer, who always wore blue
worsted stockings, and hence the name.
The society was founded in 1760. The
beautiful and fascinating Mrs. Jerningham
is said to have worn blue stockings at the
"conversaziones" of Lady Montague, and
this peculiarity also fastened the name upon
accomplished women.


FLOWERS

	MORAL courage is one of the requisite
elements of success.
	THERE is nothing that so refines the face
and mind as the presence of great thoughts.
	THE violet grows low and covers itself
with its own tears, and of all flowers yields
the sweetest fragrance. Such is humility.
	IT is when to-morrow's burden is added
to the burden of to-day that the weight is
more than one can bear.
	HAPPINESS is a shy nymph; and if you
court her or chase her you will never catch
her; but go quietly on doing your duty, and
she will come to you.
	YOUR disposition will be suitable to that
which you most frequently think on; for
the soul is as it were, tinged with the col-
or and complexion of its own thoughts.
	IF you will not do that which God has en-
abled you to do, how can you expect that He
should do that for you, which of yourself
you cannot do?
	TRIALS teach us our own natures; they
let us see what we are made of; if there are
thorns or ill-weeds in the soil of our hearts
they bring them to the surface.
	WHAT would be wanting to make this
world a kingdom of heaven if that tender,
profound and self-denying love practiced
and recommended by Jesus were para-
mount in every heart?—Krummacher.
	Do not be content with latent goodness.
There is latent heat in the earth, the iron
of a fireless stove; but men may perish
with the cold with such latent heat all
around them. Latent heat warms nobody.
It must be converted, brought out and set
to work upon something for such practical
purpose.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Cream Pie:—One cup of thick sweet cream,
two tablespoonfuls sugar and one egg. Use one
crust underneath.
	Sponge Cake:—Use the whites of ten eggs; one
and one half tumblers of flour, a teaspoonful of
salt; lemon to suit the taste. Bake about thirty-
five minutes.
	Washington Pie:—One cup of sugar, one table-
spoonful of butter, four tablespoonfuls sweet milk,
one half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful cream
of tartar, one cup of flour. Bake in two layers,
with jelly fruit and cream between.
	French Toast:—Beat four eggs very light and
stir them in a pint of milk, slice some bakers-
bread; dip the pieces into the egg, then lay them
in a pan of hot lard and fry brown; sprinkle a lit-
tle sugar and cinnamon on each side and serve hot;
this is a dish almost equal to waffles.
	Cold Slaw:—Cut up the cabbage very fine with
a sharp knife, and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful
salt. For a large dish, a quart or so, use two eggs,
a piece of butter the size of an egg, half a tea-
cup of water and half a teacup of good vinegar.
Beat the eggs whites and yelks together very light,
add the water, vinegar and butter, and put all in a
dish over the fire, stirring it all the time until it
is a creamy thickness. Pour it hot over the cab-
bage, stir up well with a fork and leave it to
cool.


WHY is the letter "o" the most charitable
letter? Because it is found oftener than
any other in "doing good."


193		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.  

	TRAINING the hand and the eye to do
work well, leads individuals to form correct
habits in other respects; and a good work-
man is in most cases a good citizen.
	BE brave always. Misfortune, sorrow and
obstacles call for all the courage of human-
ity; to be brave is to be beneficial; it is in
time of trouble that we most need courage,
for by it we not only strengthen ourselves,
but can help others. The dross of the met-
al is always eliminated by the fire through
which it passes. So should sorrow purify
and strengthen us; they are the bravest
hearts who go to the front.
	IT is very common to meet blind men in
the streets of a Chinese city, but blind wo-
men are seldom seen. "Why is this?"
asked a traveler of an old missionary one
day. "Oh," was the answer, "when a child
becomes blind if a girl, it is almost sure to
die, for no care is taken to preserve the life
of such a worthless creature. A boy can be
taught to do more things for a support, so
he is allowed to live."
	PLATONICS.—Mr. G. Lewes (Geo. Eliot's
husband) says that the common notion of a
Platonic attachment is the affection which
a man has to a girl whom he cannot and
will not marry. What Plato says is, that
the soul goes forth in its search for Beauty
—which seems sentimental enough—but
then Plato identifies Beauty with Truth,
which is not so sentimental. Plato does not
introduce any consideration of sex into his
theory. In the Phaedrus and elsewhere
Plato gives us his notion of matters, and if
any one thinks that Plato's dialogues are
enlightened with much love talk, he can
have done but little in that wilderness of
dialectics.
	THE woman that is a happy wife need
not long to be courted again. There is no
need—she is won. Nor are many compli-
ments necessary. Mutual devotion is an
ever appreciated compliment. Yet, still,
you who are married do not quite forget
those old days which drew you to each oth-
er. Be lovers always. Many people are;
and those who love are safe. The meeting
and parting kiss, the kind look, the appre-
ciative word—never forget these. Never
let marriage degenerate into the common
place. So surely as you do worse will fol-
low; for the husband and wife who have no
tender sentiment towards each other will
become foes.


ENGLISH TITLES:—The lowest rank is
that of a knight and is dignified by the ti-
tle "Sir;" only, it not being hereditary.
Next comes the baronet whose title de-
scends to heirs. Knights and baronets are
not counted as belonging to the nobility,
but only to the aristocracy. The first in the
scale of nobility is the baron, to which rank
most of the English nobility belong. The
viscounts come next, and both viscounts
and barons are known in politics as lords;
earls are higher; then marquises; then
dukes; the last being the highest rank to
which subjects can attain. The younger
sons of dukes, earls and all the sons of sim-
ple barons, claim the prefix honorable.


THE school boy who needs most encour-
agement, generally gets the least. And so
it is the world over. If you owe a poor
man and also a rich one, you will be sure to
pay the rich one first. Of course the poor
one is best able to wait your convenience.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC IN THE UNITED
STATES.—There are 146,000 drinking sa-
loons; the manufacturers and sellers of
spirituous liquors number about 560,000.
It is estimated that in the saloons there are
5,000,000 daily customers; the 29,000 dis-
tilleries make annually 72,500,000 gallons of
ardent spirits.
	THE forests of Europe as estimated by
Dr. Brown, cover 500,000,000 acres, or
nearly 20 per cent of the surface of the
continent. In British North America 900,
000,000 acres. In the United States, 560,
000,000 acres. In South America 700,000,
000, acres. The total for Europe and Amer-
ica alone is equal to 3 600,000 geographical
miles.


THE ALPHA, is a monthly paper published
in Washington, D. C., by the Moral Educa-
tion Society. Its object is to aid and assist
the world in regeneration. It contains ar-
ticles excellently written on the subordina-
tion of women and "Pre-natal Influence."
These articles are strikingly appropriate to
the object in view of woman's elevation and
advancement, and the individual equality
of sex.


[Column 1]
	THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. [---]in-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to        C.R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake Utah.

	Now Receiving, at
TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
	Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
	Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES. Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
	Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWAWRE.
		23, MAIN STREET.

[Column 2]
MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
	AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly repon[-]ed to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
Ladie attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.	17, East Temple street.
	TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDBREAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURE IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TO THE LADIES!

	TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
all kinds, NEW STYLES PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and a full stock
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we
are selling very cheap. 

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
	priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	AT THE TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. RepairingDone. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates
	D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

	LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, sustantia
	Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
	them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take payment, CASH, FLOUR,
	BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
	or
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
	AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
	29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE !
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
	AND
BABY CARRIAGES !
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City

