A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	We will commence this romance by intro-
ducing the heroine—an agreeable young lady
of marriageable age, say twenty, plainly and
neatly clad, who devoted a portion of her time
serving God, by trying to instruct, happify and
better the condition of God's children. She
was one of the earnest and faithful members of
a Retrenchment Society, never danced after
twelve o'clock, wore neither stays nor high
heels, but expanded her lungs with the fresh air,
and her step was elastic and free. Her perfect
and healthful form, intelligent countenance
and modest behavior attracted the special at-
tention of a young prince, who bore the name
of Joseph. He was of the royal lineage of the
house of David, and heir to the blessings,  the
wealth, and the power of the Eternal Priest-
hood. He honored his parentage, and culti-
vated nobility in his nature, and set a worthy
example for "fast young men." He did not
squeeze Mary's hand and say soft things to her,
and tell her that she was handsome and so es-
sential to his happiness; but he went, like a
true prince as he was, to his father and mother,
and told them that there was a precious girl in
their city, Nazareth, for whom he entertained
great respect, and he felt that there was a seed
of love planted in his heart, that only required
their approbation and that of all parties con-
cerned, to take root and sprout and grow until
it encircled Miriam (that was the pet name by
which he chose to call her). The father and
mother smiled upon their noble son and sealed
the smile with their blessing. Then they vis-
ited Mary's family, and asked her parents if it
would be agreeable to them to have Joseph
visit there and try to win their daughter's love.
They consented, and said  they would exchange
gifts as a token of betrothal; such engagements,
or betrothals, were not usually consummated
by marriage under twelve months, but were
considered very sacred.
	While the thread of the life of these lovers
is running smoothly a higher Court has taken
cognizance of the condition, and passed judg-
ment in the case. Belonging to this court is a
popular messenger, a resurrected nobleman,
named Michael. He is delegated by the Su-
preme head of this August Assembly, to bear
the glad tidings of its decision to Mary, and
coming into her presence, he addresses her in
this respectful manner:
	"Hail! noble lady! The Lord, King of kings,
is with thee, and thou art more favored and
blessed than any other woman."
	Mary pondered upon these strange words.
She knew that her father's family—the family
of Judah—was promised the honor of rearing
a Son of God, Who would yield his life blood a
sacrifice, acceptable to remove what we term
the evil consequences of the sentence of death,
which was passed upon Adam and Eve and
their posterity in the Morning of Creation.
While she thus pondered a feeling of astonish-
ment and fear caused her to tremble, when
Michael spoke kindly to her, telling her that
she had no cause to fear; God had decreed that
hers should be the honor of bearing the child
Jesus, who should sit upon the throne of David,
and to whose kingdom there should be no end.
	Mary, like a true woman, accepted the con-
dition, and braved the perils.
	When Joseph was informed of the interview
that his affianced bride had received he became
jealous, and considered whether he would for-
sake Mary, for he said the story about Michael
must be all a fabrication; he was the affianced
husband, and ought to be the head of the
woman, and he did not relish being passed by
in any such a way; so he mentally told himself
that he would do no wrong in the matter, but
quietly and silently withdraw the love and
protection that, from the depths of his warm
heart, he had taught her to respect and rely on.
	She soon began to feel the chill of desolation,
and her troubled spirit refused to rest in sleep
until Joseph should again fully confide in her.
To his nature love was less essential than to
hers, so he with apparent indifference slept
while Mary quietly and silently prayed for a
return of the warmth of Joseph's love, and as
she prayed an angel disturbed Joseph's slum-
bers, and told him that his rights had not been in
the least, infringed upon, and that, for the in-
tegrity of his manly heart, he was entitled to
this explanation. Now he was told that he
must return to Mary, beg a thousand pardons,
and love and cherish her as he ought, and the
watch-care of the Most High would be over
them, to guide their footsteps until the wise
men of the East should do reverence to their
reputed son, the Son of God, the real King of
Israel.
	Reuma.


