[COLUMN 3]

not; the thing you love may die." But my
experience has taught me that, "It is bet-
ter to have loved and lost, than never to
have loved at all." If we wish to feel as
we should feel, and live as we should live;
if we wish to be successful in the perfor-
mance of all life's duties; if we desire true
happiness, we must love and be loved, from
the cradle to the grave; and if, through
any unfavorable circumstances whatever,
we are deprived of "the bliss of loving,
and of being loved," our loss is incalcula-
ble. It is an axiom that there can be no
true love where there is no respect. Love
is the normal condition of our race.
	The new-born babe nestling in its moth-
er's bosom appreciates love, and the capaci-
ty to appreciate love continues (under fa-
vorable circumstances) to increase during
the periods of childhood and adolescence,
at which period that peculiar phase of love,
which seeks the society of the opposite sex,
is strengthened and intensified. And if
we are governed by correct principles, this
immortal passion will continue with us
through the journey of life, smoothing our
pathway, cheering, comforting and encour-
aging us in prosperity and in adversity, in
health and in sickness, and under all cir-
cumstances it will make our meeting with
the grim monster, Death, appear less terri-
ble; it will brighten our passage through the
dark "valley of the shadow of death;" it
will attend us in the world of spirits, and
will continue to inspire us to godlike deeds.
	"While life or thought or being lasts
	Or immortality endures."
	In conclusion, I will quote the language
of an able writer on this interesting and
important subject. In speaking of love he
says: "It is not confined to the gifted, the
high born or the rich, nor is it peculiar to
any period of the world, or to any condition
of life. All have possessed the sensibility, if
they have not experienced the passion; they
have felt the want of love, if they have not
enjoyed its fruition."
	"Love sheds on earth something of the
beauty and the light of heaven. Love de-
velops the noblest traits of humanity; and
often brings them out from those persons
who had given little promise of possessing
them until they were brought under the in-
fluence of this master passion. There is
nothing so great, so difficult, or so self-sac-
rificing, that love will not inspire men to
dare, and do. But it is not more in splendid
achievements or wonderful adventures, than
it is in the innumerable little things which
conspire to make up the happiness of social
life, that the greatest victories of love are
won. We cannot love any person, without
seeking his or her benefit, and in endeavor-
ing to benefit and please the object of our
affection, we are impelled to improve and
beautify ourselves, in order to become more
worthy of our beloved one's affection in re-
turn. And this leads us not only to adorn
our persons, but to polish our manners, and
cultivate our minds. Hence we are deeply
indebted to this sentiment, for those quali-
ties of mind and person, which combine to
constitute us social beings; since it does not
more certainly impel us to the acquisition
of what is beautiful and becoming in dress,
and deportment, than to the attainment of
intelligence, politeness, and to surround
ourselves with all the embellishments of
civilization. Love refines all that it touch-
es. Under its influence the rough boy be-
comes the respectful young gentleman, and
the awkward girl assumes the innate refine-
ment of the lady. Love paints the cheeks
with roses, adds more lustre and intelligence


to the eye, imparts strength and elasticity
to the step, grace and dignity to the mien,
courage to the heart, eloquence to the ton-
gue, and poetry to every thought. In fact
love is the poetry of life, and the life of poe-
try. Love has inspired in every age the
brightest dreams of fancy, and the noblest
conceptions of literature, and of art, consti-
tuting the perpetual theme which animates
the writer's pen, and tunes the "poet's lyre."

O happy love!—where love like this is found!—
O heartfelt rapture! bliss beyond compare!
I've paced much this weary world around
And sage experience bids me this declare—
If heaven a draught of heavenly pleasure spare,
One cordial in this melancholy vale,
'Tis when a youthful, loving, modest pair,
In other's arms breathe out the tender tale,
Beneath the milk-white thorn that scents the evning gale.
