HOME AFFAIRS.
	ON CHRISTMAS Day at the theatre, for a mati-
nee, the favorite fancy play, "Cherry and Fair
Star," was presented to a house crowded almost
exclusively with Juveniles, and again in the
evening to a tolerably good-sized audience.
Monday and Tuesday evenings the same play
was repeated.
	WE OFTEN receive articles for publication
with fictitious names attached, without the
writer's real signature; we have several times
expressed ourselves on this subject, plainly
stating that all articles of this kind must be
accompanied with the real name of the writer.
We have now several articles laid over for this
reason. Several items are also crowded out of
this issue for want of space.
	ON SUNDAY evening, Dec. 26, 1875, the Han-
del and Hadyn Society of this city gave an
entertainment at the Theatre of the Oratorio of
the Messiah. The house was tolerably well
filled, and, considering most of the singers
were amateurs, it was decidedly a success.
	In consequence of the indisposition of Mrs.
E. C. Haydon, one of the most talented singers,
the rendering was not complete, as all her solos
had to be omitted; but Mrs. Careless' rendering
of her solos was exquisitely perfect.
	A MEETING of the Presidents, Committee,
etc., for the representation of Utah at the Na-
tional Centennial, was held at the office of
Capt. H. C. Goodspeed, Tuesday, Dec. 28, at
eleven a. m. In consequence of some misun-
derstanding in regard to notice of the time of
meeting being given, only a few of the com-
mittee were present; of the gentlemen Hon.
Wm. Jennings, H. C. Goodspeed and Mr. Pres-
cott. Some definite conclusions in regard to
time at which all articles must be in readiness
were arranged, and the flag to represent the


Territory was decided upon. Each state or ter-
ritory will have its own flag representing its
respective coat of arms. Utah will be repre-
sented by the beehive. Capt. Goodspeed very
kindly proffered the ladies the use of his office
to hold their separate meetings, whenever they
should have business to transact. Some sug-
gestions were made in regard to raising funds
to defray the necessary expenditure, but no
positive decision arrived at. Capt. Goodspeed
suggested the idea of a Ladies' Tea-party as
having been very practicable in some localities.


