[COLUMN 2]

in consequence of being informed that quite
a number of the girls and young ladies of
our community, are attending a certain
school in this city, which is under the aus-
pices and influence of a so-called church,
that has for centuries promulgated this un-
scriptural and unnatural dogma, as one of
its prominent doctrines; and also, because
I have often known of some of the young
ladies of our city having gone home in the
dark, from meetings and other public gath-
erings, unattended by even a single male
friend; and I have felt chagrined to think
that some of our young men were appar-
ently so lacking in gallantry, and I have
thought that there must be something wrong
somewhere; for there is a sexual magnet-
ism, or some kind of an influence, which
attends every good, virtuous, honorable man
to feel blessed in her society. She inspires
his soul with noble aspirations, draws out
his devotional feelings, and brings him
nearer to his God.
	The social condition of society, in portions
of the so-called civilized world, to-day, is
such as to render it unsafe for a lady to
walk abroad, unless attended by a male
protector. In fact, she is not safe if left
without a protector, even in her own house.
And to-day this deplorable condition of
things exists, to some extent in this Terri-
tory. No elder, or male member of this
church, should ever make attempt to take any
unlawful or improper liberties with any of
the daughters of Eve. He should be a pro-
tector of female chastity and honor, at all
times, upon all occasions, and under all cir-
cumstances. He might meet a lady, either
by day or by night, on the highway or in
the byway, in the field or in the forest, and
she should find in him nothing but a pro-
tector and friend. She might even visit
him, under similar circumstances to those
under which the faithful Ruth visited the
honorable Boaz, and he would only treat
her in a similar manner. For temptation
is the only test of virtue.
	The importance of the duty of procre-
ation has been generally recognized, par-
tially understood, and has been encouraged
in various ways, from the time that the
Lord said, "Be fruitful and multiply," up
to the present. The present age may be
a partial exception to this rule, especially in
our own nation. In ancient Sparta, the
special duty of women was to produce
strong, healthy children for the State. It is
said that it used to be the custom in China,
for a public place, all unmarried men who
were over thirty years of age, and all unmar-
ried women who were over twenty, and have
them publicly punished. Similar customs
have prevailed among other nations.
	I allude to these customs merely as histo-
rical facts, and not as examples in all re-
spects worthy of imitation.
	Tradition and history, both sacred and
profane, point to polygamy as the oldest
form of marital associations. Polygamy
has been practiced in every age and in every
clime. Four-fifths of our race have al-
ways been polygamists. Mahomet, at his
death, left nine widows; and his followers
are said to number one hundred and forty
millions. I will here state that, if I was
an infidel and an atheist, that my knowl-
edge of human nature as it is, would still
lead me, as a citizen of the world, to favor
the toleration of polygamy.
	The feeling, or principle, which should
influence all the associations of the sexes,
should invariably be that Heaven-born at-
tribute—Love. Some one has said "Love

