WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	It is gratifying to know that the sisters
are awakening to a greater sense of the re-
sponsibility resting upon them as mothers
and co-workers with the brethren in assist-
ing to raise the standard of Zion. There
is much to be accomplished in a very short
space of time, and all who will be earnest
in coming forward and in sharing in the
toils and difficulties which continually
arise in the pathway of the servants of
God, will assuredly have the Holy Spirit to
bear testimony to them that they are on the
right road to attain celestial glory and hap-
piness hereafter. Do not wait for some-
thing to be put into your hands to do, but
work to-day at home, among your friends,
in every place where you may be, with all
the energy you possess to inspire those
around you, with the spirit of the great and
holy mission of reforming and regenerat-
ing society, at home and abroad. Woman's
voice may be heard in private in every
house, if not in public; advocate the prin-
ciples of true reform, not only of repentance
and sorrow for past offences, but for con-
stant and continual steadfast integrity of
purpose, in duty and work. If you are
strong in faith, be generous and charitable
toward those wao have not so much expe-
rience and are not so thoroughly established
in all good works. Every woman should,
as far as possible, exercise an influence
which may be felt in the circle of her asso-
ciations. Every mother can have if they
are careful, wise and discreet, an influence
in their own household and among those
under their care and guidance, which will
tend to improvement of all connected with
them. Let ewery word spoken convey an
idea or principle of thought or feeling, or
motive which shall be understood as emana
ting from a foundation of purity of purpose
and action. Shall we who have had the
light of intelligence from heaven flowing
into our hearts, and whispering to us for so
many years, let our sons and daughters
grow up in ignorance of the laws of life
and salvation, and become as darkened in
their minds as those whose parents never
knew aught of the laws of God? If we
are thus remiss in teaching, (and in doing
as well as teaching) the principles of eter-
nal truth revealed from heaven, we cannot
expect our children to advance. We have
been making continual sacrifices that our
children might surpass us, and ascend into
a purer atmosphere of thought and feeling,
than the world is surrounded with. Shall
we miss the attainment of the object for
which we have been striving, because we
are too indolent and weak to stand boldly
forth in defense of the principles we 
have espoused?
EMILE.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25th, 1875.


A TERRIBLE sequel to an hour's amuse-
ment telling ghost stories occurred at a
Surgical Institute recently. A room full of
young ladies, patients of the institute,
amused and excited each other by stories of
terrific apparitions, hobgoblins, ghosts, etc.
The gas had been turned out either inten-
tionally or by accident. In the climax of a
vivid story one of the girls threw her shawl
over a trembling comrade. A little rustle
and strange conduct was noticed. When a
light was brought the fact was revealed
that the poor girl was insane. She has re-
mained so ever since, yet hopes are enter-
tained of her recovery.


THE FUTURE.—The future is always
fairy-land to the young.  Life is like a
beautiful and winding lane, on either side
bright flowers, and beautiful butterflies, and
tempting fruits, which we scarcely pause to
admire or taste; so eager  we are to hasten
to an opening which we imagine will be
more beautiful still.  But, by degrees as
we advance, the trees grow bleak; the flow-
ers and butterfiles fail; the fruits disappear,
and we find we have arrived, to reach a
desert waste; in the centre, a stagnant and
Lethean lake, over which wheel and shriek
the dark-winged birds, the embodied mem-
ories of the past.


