A MIRAGE.
	I have long promised to give a descrip-
tion of a mirage which I have seen several
times in Minnesota. A myth! Dear read-
er, when you see an extensive mirage, I
feel sure you will acknowledge you are
really seeing quite a sight, a pleasant and in-
teresting one too. Houses and groves rise,
one after another in the background, and
even lakes can be seen at a great distance
during one.
	I was once standing a few rods from the
north shore of a beautiful lake which was
from four to five miles wide, when the
south shore appeared to be no more  than as
few rods away. I had scarcely time to re-
cover from my astonishment before it was
out of sight again. Usually mirages re-
main longer and sometimes may be seen in
their splendor for hours together. It is not
very uncommon to see groves twenty miles
away during a mirage. You really see the
groves, the distance only being what is de-
ceptive at the time.
	Villages rise in like manner, and were 
once seen in the direction where the Indi-
ans had murdered so many inhabitants that
it was easy to fancy that the smoke, as it
rose in the magnifying as well as refraction
of the rays of light, was like towering mon-
uments, placed over their departed friends,
who had a few years before been victims of
the treacherous savages. Haystacks tower
up, and remind one of the pyramids
of Egypt, rather than stacks from two to
five miles away. I was not long since much
amused by reading a short but graphic de-
scription of a mirage, given by an Indian
chief who was trying to forcibly impress a
young hunter with the vast power of the
Great Spirit. Said he, "The Great Spirit
took a large mountain away from its place
and put it on top of another one and let it
remain a few hours, and then put it back
again in its own place."
Aunt Flora.
		LAMARTINE'S MARRIAGE.
	The story of the marriage of the great
French poet and statesman, is one of ro-
mantic interest. The lady was of an En-
glish family named Birch, and very wealthy.
She first fell in love with the poet from
reading his "Meditations Poetiques." She
was slightly past the bloom of youth, but
still young and fair. She read and re-read
the "Meditations," and nursed the tender
sentiment in secret, At length she saw
Lamartine in Geneva, and her love became
a part of her very life. Not long after this
she was made acquainted with the fact that
the poet was suffering, even to unhappiness,
from the embarrassed state of his pecuniary
affairs.
	Miss Birch was not long in deciding up-
on her course. She would not allow the
happiness of a lifetime to slip from her if
she could prevent. She wrote to the poet a
frank and womanly letter, acknowledging
her deep interest and profound respect, and
offering him the bulk of her fortune, if he
were willing to accept it. Of course Lamar-
tine could not but suspect the truth. Deep-
ly touched by her generosity, he called upon
her, and found her to be not only fair to
look upon, but a woman of a brilliant liter-
ary and artistic education. He made an
offer of his hand and heart, which was
promptly and gladly accepted; and in the
after years Alphonso de Lamartine owed not
more to his wife's wealth than to her sus-
taining love and inspiring enthusiasm.—N.
Y. Ledger.


MATILDA Jane (catching the pastor after
Sunday school,) "Oh, sir, please, what would
you charge to christen my doll?"


