NOTES AND NEWS.
	GEORGE ELLIOT'S new novel entitled
"Daniel Deronda," is spoken of as portray-
ing accurately English life of to-day, and
to deal in the most graceful and entertain-
ing manner with the highest sphere of
modern society.

	A PETITION is being extensively circula-
ted at the capitol, entitled, "A Woman's
Solemn Protest to the members of the forty-
fifth Congress," which opposes the grant-
ing of aid to the Centennial, because the
doors of the palace have been shut in the
faces of American Women, and also because
the negro race has been ignored.—Wo-
man's Journal."

	A TREMENDOUS explosion occurred at
Swaithe Main colliery, near Barnsley, West
Riding, Yorkshire England, on the 6th of
Dec. Over 200 lives were lost. The col-
liery is owned by Messrs. Mitchell & Co.
and is one of the largest in the southern part
of Yorkshire. The works extended for
miles, and were entirely worked by safety
lamps, under the most rigid discipline
and had been considered perfectly safe.

	AN ARTICLE by Anna C. Brackett read
before the Third Woman's Congress at Syr-
acuse, N. Y. Oct. 14, 1875, entitled "Organ-
ization as related to civilization," is in our
opinion worthy the attention of all people
men or women who desire to advance the
true interests of humanity. She certainly
handles the subject in a masterly manner.
This lady says organization carried to its
uttermost perfection, is the type and fruit
of all civilization. That the individual los-
es nothing by yielding his will to the good
of the whole, he is served in turn by evrey
individual of the organization of which he
is a member, Organization owes its pow-
er to the survey of time the utilization of
every energy. This lady writes with such
clearness and power that all may under-
stand, and she deserves the highest com-
mendation from those who are enlisted or
interested in seeking the elevation of wo-
man.


The first finger ring.—An amusing
myth is told of the origin of the finger
ring. When Jove released Prometheus
from the bonds by which he had been con-
fined, he condemned him as a sort of pen-
ance—perhaps somewhat after the fashion
of a modern ticket-of-leave—to wear upon
his finger, as a ring, a link of the iron chain
that had bound him to the Caucasian rock
itself. In this way, so the fable goes, the
custom of the finger ring originated. There
is every reason to believe that this use of
the engraved stone began with the Greeks,
and from them was copied by their servile
imitators, the Romans. It is every way a
convenient and natural one; and our grand-
fathers' custom of wearing their seals at
the fob, as it was called, or hanging from
the side-pocket, was a recurrence to old As-
syrian usages, which long held its ground.


THOSE who live on the failings of their
neighbors will never die of starvation.


