	LOVE AND LADIES' SOCIETY.

		By George Anderson.

	Mr. President, and Ladies and Gentle-
men of the 20th Ward Institute:—I have
chosen for my theme, "Love, and Ladies'
Society." I will quote the words of God,
as recorded in the 2nd capter of Genesis,
18th verse: "And the Lord God said, it is
not good that man should be alone; I will
make him an help meet for him." Histo-
ry, both sacred and profane, bears ample
testimony that this grand truth has been
realized and understood by the eminent
men of race, from the days of Father
Adam to the present. Adam chose rather
to leave Paradise, than be deprived of the
society of his beloved spouse. And he said
that a man should leave father and mother
and cleave to his wife. Seth, Enoch, Me-
thusaleh, Lameck, Noah, Melchisedek, Abra-
ham, Jacob, Moses, Gideon, Samson, Boaz,
David, Solomon, and many others, whose
names are handed down to posterity in the
Old Testament, all demonstrated, by their
course and conduct, that they realized and
understood that it is not good that man
should be alone. It is evident that women
loved to associate with our Lord and Sa-
viour Jesus Christ, and that He reciprocated
their love, even after His resurrection. The
apostle Peter was married, and it is gener-
ally conceded that his brethren of the
twelve were also married men. If the apos-
tle Paul was not married, he evidently be-
lieved in this sacred ordinance, and con-
sidered that he had a right to lead about a
sister, or a wife, "as well as other apostles,
and as the brethren of the Lord, and Ce-
phas." (1 Cor., 9th chap., 5th verse.) Paul
proclaimed marriage to be "honorable in
all." (Heb., XIII. iv.) And forbidding to
marry, he denounced as one of the "doc-
trines of devils." (1st Tim. IV.) The history
given in the Book of Mormon, of Lehi,
Nephi, Amulek, Mormon, Moroni, and other
eminent men, testifies that they also were
lovers of ladies' society. If we turn to the
pages of what is called profane history, we
find the same characteristics manifested by
the world's eminent men. As illustrations,
we might mention Plato, Cicero, Alexander,
Mahomet, Ceasar, Charlemange, Bacon,
Napoleon, Nelson, Goethe, Scott, Byron,
Burns, Augustus, Buckingham, Palmerston,
Webster, and hosts of others, whose names
I have not space to mention. I do not claim
that the conduct of all these men whom I
have mentioned was in all respects exem-
plary in their associations with the daugh-
ters of Eve, but I do claim that they
demonstrated by their acts, they were be-
lievers in the doctrine, that it is not good
that man should be alone. As eminent be-
lievers in this grand truth in our own day,
we might make honorable mention of Jo-
seph, Parley, Willard, Jedediah, Heber,
Brigham, Daniel, and hundreds of other
prominent men in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	True, the Papal Church and various other
classes, or sects, including many of both
sexes, have, during the various epochs of
the world's history, as well as in our
own time, attempted to extirpate from
their natures this heaven implanted desire;
but the results of such unnatural efforts
never have been, and never will be, desir-
able to any sensible, right-feeling man or
woman, who understands things as they are.
What is there about the ascetic, or the mis-
anthrope to be desired? and who would
wish to be sexually apathetic? I have been
led to reflect on this and kindred subjects,

