HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
GOOD TASTE.
	Taste is that power of the mind which
enables us to discern beauty, excellence, and
fitness, and to take pleasure in them. There
are few who would willingly admit them-
selves to be deficient in this respect, and
many would prefer to be accused of a dere-
liction in duty than a violation in dress, man-
ners, or conduct of the principles of good
taste. Yet few take the trouble of study-
ing out these principles, and of making
themselves familiar with the grounds upon
which they rest. Some indeed contend that
the very great variety of taste that exists in
the world, proves that there is no standard
of true beauty, and no principles, therefore,
by which we may designate taste as good
or bad. But such an argument would ap-
ply with equal force to a standard of truth
or right. Prejudice will often foster belief
in absurdities, and the conscience may be
so warped as to mistake right for wrong;
but no one would from this attempt to prove
that there is no standard by which to judge
of the character of action.
	In every exercise of taste the judgment
is brought into operation, and decides as to
the existence of beauty or excellence, har-
mony or fitness. As therefore the judg-
ment is variously developed in different
persons, so also will be the taste, and the
standard of the one will include that of the
other.
	The appreciation of beauty, harmony, or
fitness, implies two things: a belief in some
excellence or perfection in the object, and a
sense of pleasure. If the excellence that
we think we perceive is really there, the
feeling of pleasure is justifiable, and our
taste is correct. If our judgment be erro-
neous, and the excellence fancied, not real,
then our taste is at fault. The beauties of
nature which all admire, are not only real,

[Column 2]
but are found to open up increasing delight,
as the mind by culture is better able to ap-
preciate them. So the finest works of art
give pleasure proportioned to the ability of
the mind to fasten upon the elements of
beauty they contain. Even where objects
appear beautiful at first sight, and we can-
not define the reason, though we enjoy the
emotion, we yet have cause to believe that
it is rather owing to our want of discern-
ment than to any deficiency of real beauty
in the objects themselves. It frequently
happens that the instinctive feeling of
beauty, at first experienced without a rea-
son, is followed in the reflective mind by a
discovery of some excellence before unno-
ticed. Thus a perfectly well-bred person
always produces pleasurable emotions in
those whom he meets. Without analyzing
or reasoning, they feel their taste gratified,
and their interest enlisted. But subsequent
reflection convinces them that the source
of their pleasure consists in the outwaad
expression of amiable qualities of mind.
	Good taste in dress, in like manner, is the
result and the outward sign of a good judg-
ment in regard to comfort, convenience,
consistency of expense, harmony of colors,
and general suitability. It was once said of
a lady, by one who was a good judge in such
matters, that she was attired in such perfect
taste that he could not remember anything
she had on. The effect of the whole cos-
tume would have been rendered less agree-
able, if any of its parts had been striking
or prominent. Similar principles apply to
good taste in other directions. As polite-
ness is the outward sign of amiability, so
good taste is the outward sign of a correct
and cultivated judgment. In whatever is
made for an end, the adaptation of all its
parts to that end, is a chief element of
beauty and good taste, and whatever de-
feats that end in any measure is in so far a
deformity. For example, in furnishing a
dwelling, the chief end is supposed to be
the comfort and welfare of the occupants.
But when we see two-thirds of the whole
expense laid out in the costly and luxurious
furniture and decorations of the drawing-
room, while that part of the house where
the family chiefly resides presents a pinched
and mean appearance, we may safely assert
that the end is frustrated, the judgment
that guided the management was defective,
and the principles of good taste violated.
	Whoever desires, then, to possess and to
exhibit, in dress, manners, conversation and
actions, a thoroughly good taste, will do
well to study its principles, to cultivate the
judgment, and to adapt means carefully and
wisely to the ends in view. Good taste is
not, as some suppose, a mere surface matter;
its principles, as we have seen, lie deep
down in the foundation of things; and those
who would rejoice in its sweet fruits and
beauteous flowers, must not content them-
selves with merely watering the leaves,
but must dig deep down to the roots, and
give them due sustenance.
