	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, DEC. 13, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	To the thousand household cares add
those of a garden of many flowers and one
finds a plenty of employment "from rosy
morn till dewy eve"—at the approach of
frost our verbenas, petunias, china pinks,
carnations and many others were removed to
the house for winter blooming, and the ten-
der acacias and other trees and shrubs
wrapped and tied up for protection from


frost, which has finally come and destroyed
the tender plants and flowers—yet sparing
us awhile longer the rosy chrysanthemums.
petunias, marigolds, malveas, scabious, mig-
nonette, and some others are still in bloom
outdoors.
	"The Glory of Rosamine" is an evergreen
here and one of the most magnificent of
roses, the bush is large and tall and almost
a runner with large half-double dark velvety
leaved blossoms in large clusters—and ever
blooming. I think it will stand the winter
at Salt Lake. The Lamarque, is one of the
finest of white tree roses—ever-blooming and
a fast growing runner, and delightfully fra-
grant, which with the "John Hopper" a
dark pink and profuse bloomer, seem per-
fectly hardy here, and great favorites with
everyone. When rose bushes become un-
healthy and leaves change to white, and
cease growing, use a compound of fine char-
coal soot from the stove pipe and fine rotted
manure, and carefully fork it in about the
roots of the bushes. There is a plant, na-
tive here the Daura, most magnificent in
bloom. In August, I saw one of these plants
that occupied a circular space of eight feet;
I counted 75 blossoms in bloom at the time.
White fragrant chalice-shaped, about six in-
ches long and five inches across the outer
face of the flower. I never saw a more
grand looking plant and would recommend
it to every florist to cultivate one plant at
least.
	I must not omit to tell you that Willie
has had full access to the flower garden all
the season, he loves and admires the flow-
ers and goes around often and smells of
them but has been taught to respect them
and so far, 'tho' he wears his first breeches,'
has not made a breach of trust or injured
either flowers or plants. Even small child-
ren may be taught to love and respect the
beautiful flowers, and should be allowed to
go among them, and they will grow up re-
fined and loving under the genial loveli-
ness of the fairest of created things.
