GRANTSVILLE, T. G.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Recently I heard a Mother raving and be-
moaning because some of her children had
been chastised for some bad conduct, and
they, the children richly deserved the pun-
ishment they recived and more, but her un-
reasoning fondness made her unjust; she did
not think her children could do wrong, she
imagined the whole world was in league
against them especially. Was this a wise
course to purse (?)  Those children believ-
ed themselves to be martyrs pitied them-
selves and the chastisement did no good,
instead, it created a spirit of revenge in 
their young bosoms: seeds sown that will
surely bring forth bitter fruit.
	Unless their Heavenly Father takes bet-
ter care of them than their foolish mother
it will not take a prophet to foretell their
future. It is hard, very hard for a mother
to see her children punished, but it is some-
times an imperative duty to do so for those
children's welfare here and hereafter; it is
weak, almost imbecile for a mother to re-
fuse to believe her children can ever do
wrong. Thousands on thousands of crimi-
nals have cursed their mothers foolish fond-
ness, and declared to this cause alone they
owed their downfall. A wise mother will
not screen her offending offspring although
it will make her poor heart bleed, and cause
her pillow to be wet with the bitterest tears
a mother can shed.
	Oh! children learn that when you do
wrong the punishment falls heaviest on
your mother's heart.
	Would it could be written in letters of
fire to burn into the hearts of children this
one sentence "Children obey you parents in
the Lord." How much sorrow it would
save, how many homes it would shield
from desolation, how many mothers would
be spared to a ripe old age that have gone
down to their graves in sorrow and shame
through the faults of their children.
	Dear children believe this truth "As you
sow so shall you reap, If you sow the wind
you will reap the whirlwind."
MARY.


A CLEVER old lady, just arrived from the
country, entered the refreshment-room at
a railroad station the other day, and said
she had left her parasol on the seat. A
general search commenced, and lasted for
some time. Finally one of the waiters
asked the old dame when she left it, to
which she answered, on counting on her fin-
gers, "Well it was three years ago last 4th
of August." There was a general roar,
much to the astonishment of the old lady,
who went away with a very puzzled look
upon her countenance.


