THE PREVENTION OF FIRES.

	SEC. 1.—Be it ordained by the City Coun-
cil of Salt Lake City: That the following
be and are hereby established as the fire
limits of said City, viz:—All of blocks 76,
69, 58, 57, 70, and 75, Plat A. Salt Lake
City Survey; and within said limits it shall
be unlawful to erect any building, the out-
er walls of which are in whole, or in part,
constructed of wood, except so much as 
may be necessary for door and window
frames, cornice, doors, sash and shutters;
and the roofs of all buildings hereafter
erected, or newly roofed, within said limits
shall be covered with metal or other in-
combustible material; and each building
shall be separated from all others by a party
wall of brick, adobie, or rock, not less than
nine inches thick from the foundation to the
roof, from front to rear, and to extend
through and above the roof not less than
two feet, so as to entirely separate any com-
munication of wood between such building 
and any other; and in all buildings where
fire is kept there shall be flues or chimneys
built of brick or adobie, and all stove pipes
shall be conducted into flues or chimneys,
and if they pass through wooden partitions
they must be protected from the same by
metal ventilated thimbles, and in no case
shall a stove pipe be allowed to pass through
the roof, or out of the side of any building.
	SEC. 2.—The erection of such buildings
as are mentioned in Section one upon any
block not included within the aforesaid lim-
its, may be prohibited upon application to
the City Council in writing, signed by the
owners of the greater part of the property
in said block. Such application shall be ac-
companied by a plot of the block, designat-
ing the property of each owner by his
name, written on the plot representing his
property; and the City Council, being satis-
fied that the applicants are the owners of
the greater part of said property, may ex-
tend the fire limits over said block.
	SEC. 3.—No person shall, within said fire
limits, keep hay or straw, in stack or pile,
without having the same enclosed so as to
protect it from flying sparks of fire; and no
owner or occupant of a livery or other sta-
ble, or any other person, shall use therein,
or in any other place containing hay, straw
or other combustible matters, any lighted 
candle, or other light, except the same be
kept, safely enclosed in a lantern or other
suitable covering to protect the same.
	SEC. 5.—Whoever shall, in person or by
another, erect any building within said fire
limits in violation of this ordinance, shall
be liable to a fine not to exceed one hundred

[Column 2]
dollars, and the further sum of twenty-five
dollars for every day after twenty-days no-
tice that the building is permited to stand;
and any person who shall become the own-
er thereof after the same shall have been so
built, and who shall omit, neglect or refuse
to remove the same within twenty days af-
ter notice, shall be liable to pay the same
penalties; and for the violation of any other
provision of this Ordinance not herein pro-
vided for, shall be liable to a fine in any
sum not to exceed one hundred dollars.
	SEC. 6—Any person, within the limits of
this city, laying timbers, wood, or lumber
in any flue, or chimney where fire passes, or
laying joist, timbers, or lumber into any
fireplace or under the hearth stone, shall be
liable to a fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars, and a further sum of five dollars for
every day that such joist, timbers, wood, or
lumber are permitted to remain after hav-
ing been notified to remove the same.
	SEC. 7—It shall not be lawful, within the
limits of said city, for the owner, occupant
or other person having control or any steam
saw, or planing mill, or factory, of any
kind, or foundry, machine shop, or other
establishment, to erect any smoke-stack or
chimney in connection therewith of less
height than ten feet above the highest build-
ing on the block, and shall securely brace
or stay the same, and shall have on said
stack or chimney a bonnet or spark arrester,
all to be done to the acceptance of the in-
spector of buildings.
	SEC. 8—The owners of all buildings with-
in the limits of this city wherein fire is
kept are hereby required to build flues or
chimneys of brick or adobie in said build-
ings, and from and after the passage of this
Ordinance it shall be unlawful to project
any stovepipe through the roof or out of
the side of any building; and on or before
the First day of March, A. D. 1855 all stove-
pipes through the roof or out of the side of
any building shall be removed by the owner
thereof.
	SEC. 9.—It shall not be lawful for any
person within the limits of this city to use
coal oil or other combustible fluid for the
purpose of kindling fires, or to handle the
same by pouring from one vessel to another
at any other time than by daylight.
	SEC. 10.—Any person violating or failing
to comply with any of the provisions of 
the last three sections of this Ordinance
shall be liable to a fine not to exceed fifty
dollars and a further sum of five dollars for
every day that any stovepipe is permitted
to remain through the roof or out of the
side of any building, after the first day of
March, A. D. 1876.
	Passed November 30th, 1875.
				DANIEL H. WELLS,
							Mayor.

Territory of Utah,
	Salt Lake City. }SS
			
				This certifies that the fore-
going is a true copy of the ordinance, enti-
tled, "An Ordinance establishing fire lim-
its and for the prevention of fires," passed
by the City Council, Nov. 30th, 1875.
	Given under my hand and the Corporate
		seal of Salt Lake City, this 7th
		day of December, A. D., 1875.
{L. S.}
			ROBERT CAMPBELL,
					City Recorder.


