[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: THE SEX. | Author: Unknown]

THE SEX.

	Anna Dickinson lectures on “Things
Hoped For.”
	Laura Ream is candidate for the office of 
State Librarian of Indiana.
	A daughter of the Rothschilds is about
to be married to a poor man, and this poor
man is a Christian.
	The married ladies of Hannibal, Missouri
have formed a “Come Home Husband Club.”
It is about four feet long and has a brush at
the end of it.
	Miss Sarah W. Barton, an American girl,
now studying music in Florence, is to be
prima donna of opera in Warsaw, Poland, the
coming winter.
	Miss Hotchkiss sensibly thinks it high
time that women should try to invent some
graceful and becoming style of dress which
would be consistent with health and free-
dom.
	Miss Mary Thurman; eldest daughter of
the Ohio Senator, is aoon to be married to a
naval officer named Herrman, which goes
to show that their domestic differences will
be over their T.
	Miss Rhoda Bou ghton, the author o
“Goodbye, Sweetheart,” etc., (says a corres-
pondent,) is young, pretty, fascinating, and
rather wild. She is the eldest daughter of
au English clergyman, and at present resid-
ing with an uncle in Devonshire, England.
“Cometh up as a Flower.” was written by
her when only sixteen.
	Miss Olive Risley Seward will hereafter
make her home at Fredonia with her father,
H. A. Risley, The old homestead has been
handsomely fitted up, where with the hand-
some income of fifty thousand dollars be-
queathed to her by Seward, she can live in
elegant retirement—if she has the notion to
live that way.
	The Queen of England has reversed the
gallantry of Sir Walter Raleigh, who spread
his rich plush coat out for his sovereign to
tread upon. The Duke of Sutherland is
having a shaft sunk in his estate to improve
some mines, and being told of these opera-
tions while there, the Queen expressed a de-
sire to see them. The Duke escorted her
thither, and while her Majesty was standing
on the bank, inspecting the work, it com-
menced to rain. A few yards off one of the
men was sawing timber for the shaft, and,
heedless of the rain, continued his work
without a coat. Presently he was surprised
to receive a light touch, and on looking up
perceived the Duke, who laid a costly rug,
over his shoulders, at the same time ex-
claiming. “The Queen requested me to
present you with her own rug, you may
keep and wear it.”
	A Brussels correspondent says that re- 
cently a poor crippled girl, to save her sister
from a week’s imprisonment, to which
she had been condemned for some slight
offence, herself confessed the crime, and
went there instead of the offender. The
fraud was detected after she had suffered-
the punishment, and when brought before
the judge she was sentenced to three months
imprisonment, which, however, she will
now escape. Her answer to the question
what induced her to substitute herself for
her sister was, that being a cripple, she
could not sustain her aged mother, which,
her sister had done for a long time, “and,
therefore,” she added, “it was better for me
to go to prison and let her be free.” A sub-
scription has been started for the girl, and
much has been subscribed to aid her and the
family of so devoted a heroine.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
 			MY FRIEND.
				—
	She is not at all like other people; she is
her own singular, primitive self. Every
person has peculiarities sacred to the one
and possessed by no other; but her original-
ities are unprecedented, and entirely her
own. Her good sense is a safe and sure
backing for her in all circumstances. She
always dresses in good style but with such
superior taste that whatever she puts on is
becoming to her. Nothing is ever new to
her; she seems to have a presentiment of
occurrences before they take place, to antici-
pate and be prepared for just what transpires,
and consequently to understand the precise
method of undertaking and managing any-
thing that comes along. She knows too
much to be dull and miserable, and can
make herself at home, at ease, and agreeable
wherever she may be placed. And yet,
withal, she entertains an intense longing to
pass from this life into one of higher intelli-
gence, where the mind may have broader
scope and freer access to the inexhaustable
fountains of pure and eternal knowledge.
She seems to have drawn forth so much of
the finer grade of excellence which belongs
to earthly substances, that her mind now
reaches forward, grasping at something
beyond, which, while clogged with this
mortal coil, it cannot fully comprehend. It
is not in the daily routine of busy, careless
life that the real sublimity and grandeur of
her strangely beautiful intellectual powers
are clearly and unmistakably visible, though
in common conversation she expresses much;
and much in her expressive language which
would be self conceit and egotism in another,
portrays only self knowledge and absolute
strength of character in her. She is indeed,
a strange composition, wonderfully endowed.
But to understand what she is, one must
become familiar with her ways, intimate
with herself, and hear her in a private ram-
ble, back over some of the quiet windings,
twistings and twinings of the threads of her
past life. Then her singularities are plain
to be observed and comprehended. She
may be still an anomaly, but it is clearly ap-
parent why; and the sympathies which her
soul stirring words awaken are ever plea-
sant and intelligent, though of a strangely
solemn and dignified nature.
								 G.


