VISIT OF MRS. SAXON AND MRS.
			COLBY.
	On the 23rd of September, Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle
Saxon, of Memphis, Tenn., and Mrs. Clara B.
Colby, of Beatrice, Neb., arrived in this city from
the North-West, where they had been for some
weeks traveling and lecturing, and withal, examin-
ing into the subject of woman suffrage in Wash-
ington Ter., and the disfranchisement of the
women citizens by the decision of the Supreme
Court of that Territory, which, as is now well
known, decided that the Territorial Legislature
had not the right to confer suffrage upon women.
In company with Dr. Pratt we met the ladies in
Ogden on the arrival of the Utah Northern, and
accompanied them to the city.  Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Jane S. Richards met the party
of four at the depot with a carriage, and together
we drove to the residence of Hon. F. S. Richards,
where a delicious lunch was served in the best
style by the genial hostess, Mrs. Emily T. Rich-
ards, to the invited guests.  Mrs. Arthur Brown
was one of the party, and engaged the ladies,
newly arrived, in an animated discussion upon
their favorite topic, woman suffrage.  Hon. F. S. 
Richards was the only gentleman at table, but
bore the honors with becoming grace and dignity,
as is his custom, although it is always more or less
embarrassing to be the only gentleman among so
many ladies, and more especially when a majority
of them are accounted "blue stockings."
	In the afternoon Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby
attended service in the Tabernacle; Elder John
Nicholson was the speaker, and his sermon was
one well calculated to impress the mind of the
stranger with the important truths so forcibly
enunciated.
	The same evening, at eight o'clock, as per pre-
vious announcement, these distinguished public
speakers addressed a good sized audience, in the
Salt Lake Theatre. Mrs. Saxon was the first
speaker, and occupied most of the time. Her
subject, taking it all in all, was social reform,
though one might say temperance, poiltics and
suffrage for women. The lady told much of the
condition and corruption of modern society, and
urged all to come forward and lend their aid in
suppressing vice, in every form, and in whatever
guise. Her appeal was eloquent and touching;
she has an excellent voice and a great command
of language, and expresses her thoughts and 
views clearly and emphatically.
	Mrs. Colby followed her, but in a somewhat
more logical vein; her manner is entirely different
from that of Mrs. Saxon, which makes a most 
pleasing variety, yet the two blend admirably.
Mrs. Saxon has the warm blood of the South in
her veins, which rises to fever heat when dwelling
upon exciting topics, and Mrs. Colby has the cool
and calm manners of the North. She reasons
more and is less emotional. Both are pleasing
[column 2]
in voice and manner, and it would be difficult to
choose which interests most, as they are both
equally earnest, sincere, and in love with their 
profession, besides being eminently qualified to
fill a position upon the public platform.
	Monday morning they were out viewing the
principal points of interest in the city, and ex-
pressed themselves much gratified with the loca-
tion of the city and its surroundings, considering
it, as most strangers do, a very charming valley.
Mrs Saxon had visited Salt Lake in the fall of
1882, and spent several weeks here, and had
cherished (so she stated) many pleasant remem-
brances af Utah, and the people whom she met
while sojourning for a little season among the 
Mormons.
	In the afternoon a reception was tendered the
ladies at the Gardo House, by a committee of
ladies here, in behalf of the women of Zion, and
as an appreciation of the labors and efforts of
these noble workers for the advancement of
women of all lands and climes, and the cause of
temperance, suffrage and social reform, of which
they are such able exponents. Between five and 
six hundred people had been invited, including
His Excellency Governor West, the Hon. Secre-
tary, Judges and U.S. officials, officers at Camp
Douglas and other prominent gentlemen and
ladies, non-Mormon, the authorities of the Church,
the Mayor and City Council, and others, in fact as
many as it was thought possible to introduce during
the three hours allotted to the reception, from two
to five p.m. The affair proved to be pleasant, so
far as one can judge, and certainly there was
nothing wanting on the part of the committee to
make it all that a public reception could be when
hurriedly arranged. It gave the lady visitors an
opportunity to exchange greetings with a larger
number of people than would have otherwise been
possible, and it is hoped that they carried away
some pleasing recollections of their sojourn here,
though it was very brief.
	About half-past five the doors were closed, and
the ladies in whose honor the reception had been
given, with a few invited guests, assembled in the
dining room and partook of refreshments pre-
pared by the committee. It was somewhat in-
formal, yet withal very pleasant; the conversation
was general, and an hour or two was spent in a 
most agreeably social way, chatting of the day,
the people and the impressions made.
	It is, perhaps, out of the usual order to write up
a matter of this kind, and not mention the ladies'
elaborate toilettes, entering into the details of
color, style, and other feminine specialties, but it
must be remembered that this was a reception
given to two very strong-minded representative
women, and, therefore, the writer begs to be ex-
cused for not telling the public who were the most
handsomely dressed ladies, what they wore, and
so on, but we will say that there were a large
number of very interesting elderly ladies, really
matronly, beautiful younger women, and charming
young girls.
	The flowers with which the parlors and ante-
rooms were decorated were a pretty feature of the
gathering, and added, as flowers always do, to the
beauty and grace of the house and its appoint-
ments. There was some music on the piano by
one or more of the young ladies—Misses Dwyer
and Folsom, who excel in the divine art—and a 
song or two by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley, who
has a rare, sweet voice, and one that touches the
tender emotions of the human soul. Her selec-
tions are always choice and in good taste, and
her style of rendering her music is as winning as
her voice is melodious and sympathetic.
	In the evening at eight o'clock the speakers
were again on the platform in the theatre, with
rather a larger audience before them than on the
evening previous. Mrs. Colby was the first
speaker; she gave an interesting account of the
[column 3]
way in which the ballot had been unjustly wrested
from the women in Washington Territory, and
attributed it on the whole to the whiskey element.
She made some very pertinent and strong points
in favor of the rights and privileges of the women 
in that Territory, that would apply with equal, if
not greater force, to the women of Utah. Her
discourse was full of good, sound arguments from
beginning to end, and no one, it would seem,
could listen to such sentiments set forth, without
feeling that the world of women was awakening to
a higher appreciation of woman's latent powers,
and the possibilities of a more glorious future,
when men and women should stand side by side
with a better comprehension of all the great un-
derlying questions that must be solved, before
the establishment of a "government for the peo-
ple and by the people," Mrs. Saxon's discourse
was of woman in the past, going back to the days
of Scripture, and the days of Rome and Greece,
and giving many incidents in the history of na-
tions and kingdoms, in which women figured
prominently. She dwelt much upon the sacrifices
and heroism of women, and especially of mothers,
and the injustice and ingratitude of men, yet sum-
ming up the whole matter, she threw the great
responsibility of much that is wrong in modern
society upon the women "who have all the rights
they want," and dwell in fine houses and happy
homes, indifferent to the wrongs that cry so loudly
for the help and redress, that might come if all
such women would put forth a helping hand, in
the great moral warfare that has begun, instead of 
sinking down in helpless weakness, content be-
cause their own life has been "cast in pleasant
lines."
	Tuesday morning, at ten o'clock there was a
meeting for women only, in the Assembly Hall,
the subject, "Social Purity," the very topic on
which Mrs. Saxon succeeded in making a sensa-
tion in Washington, during the International
Council. The main body of the building was
pretty well filled though the house would cer-
tainly have been crowded, had there been more
time to circulate the notice. Mrs. Saxon had
several times expressed a wish to hear the hymn,
"O Zion," sung, so the meeting opened with the
hymn, "O ye mountains high," etc, chorus, "O
Zion." A very earnest prayer was offered by
Sister Zina D. H. Young, after which Mrs.
Saxon addressed the ladies on the subjetc an-
nounced for her lecture.
	It would be utterly impossible to give even a
brief synopsis of her remarks here, but may here-
after give some items from it; however it was a 
most fitting theme for the mothers and daughters
gathered there, and was presented in a way that
will be sure to produce earnest thought in the
minds of those, who have not given much attention
to this important subject, and at any rate Mrs.
Saxon described pathetically the vices and crimes
that exist to such an alarming extent in the out-
side world, which must have been new to most of
the young women present. Mrs. Colby spoke
briefly but not with the enthusiasm manifested
in the former speaker. As she is a much younger
woman and with less experience in the evils that
are prevalent in great cities, she could not be ex-
pected to have the same zeal and fervor in pre-
senting the picture, as Mrs. Saxon, who has had
thirty years experience in dealing with this and
other weighty matters, that touch the vital forces
of the hearts of every true mother in the land.
Mrs. Colby is very practical and reasons admira-
bly; she likes to get at the bottom of things, and
weigh and measure them. She spoke to the 
ladies about her paper, the Woman's Tribune,
of which she is the editor and manager, and a very
able and efficient one she is too. During the time
of the International Council and Convention
of the National Woman Suffrage Association last
Spring, she published her paper daily in Washing-
ton, D. C., giving everything pertaining to


that remarkable event and the speeches of the
ladies and papers read in full.
	The Woman's Tribune is the official organ
of the National Woman Suffrage Association and
is reliable authority on all questions connected
with this movement. Mrs. Colby has good 
reason to be proud of her paper, and as it is a
national affair it is of course well supported.
She succeeded in obtaining quite a number of
subcribers in this city and also in Ogden when
she spoke there after leaving Salt Sake.
	A point inadvertently touched upon by Mrs.
Saxon in her discourse aroused the fire of Mor-
monism in the hearts of many Mormon women,
and seemed to call for expression in reply,
therefore when Mrs Colby resumed her seat. Sis-
ter Zina in her dignified motherly way rose and
bore a powerful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel, and the divinity of the mission of Joseph
Smith.  Her language was eloquent and her emo-
tions were so intensified that she poured forth her
words like a volume.  It was impromptu, but it was
all the more electrifying, and it told upon the audi-
ence in tones not to be mistaken.  Mrs. Saxon
was evidently deeply moved, and requested the
privilege of closing the meeting with prayer.
Mrs. Charlotte Ives Kirby occupied a few mo-
ments, but the spell of Sister Zina's simple and
powerful eloquence was so effective that the in-
fluence could not be easily dispelled.  The Dox-
ology  was sung and Mrs. Saxon offered in
language most sublime and eloquent a fervent and
heartfelt prayer.  In our next issue we will give
the trip to Salt Lake, on Tuesday, afternoon of a 
party of ladies and gentlemen, and the visit to the
Industrial Home on Wednesday morning prior to
the departure of the ladies on Wednesday after-
noon.
	An amusing instance of the power of the im-
agination is related in a New Orleans paper as an
experiment of a Dr. Durand.  The physician
wished to test the practical effect of mind-disease
and gave a hundred patients a dose of sweetened
water.  "Fifteen minutes after, entering apparent-
ly in great excitement, he announced that he had
by mistake given a powerful emetic, and prepara-
tions must be made accordingly.  Eighty out of
the hundred patients became thoroughly ill, and
exhibited the usual result of an emetic: twenty
were unaffected.  The curious part of it is, that,
with very few exceptions, the eighty 'emeticized'
subjects were men, while the strong-minded few,
who were not to be caught with chaff, were
women."—Ex.


