CLARKSTON AND NEWTON P. A.

	Minutes of a conference of the Primary
Associations of Clarkston and Newton Wards,
held in Newton, August 18th, 1888, Prest.
Bessie Griffin presiding. Singing, "Beautiful
Zion." Prayer by Bishop Hans Funk. Sing-
ing, "Now let us rejoice," etc. Minutes of last
conference read and approved: A song, "The
Old Fashioned Well," was rendered by Emma
Rigby, Mina and Minnie Funk; Bible Recita-
tion, "Christ's Sermon on the Mount," Lucy
Baker; Recitation, "If We Knew" Miss
Bessie Griffin.
	Prest. Bessie Griffin, of Newton, reported
the Primary of that ward. The enrollment
was ninety, average attendance Thirty-five.
	A card on "Good Manners" was recited by
Sadie and Susette Shumway.
	Prest. Caroline Thompson, of Clarkston, re-
ported the Primary of the Clarkston Ward.
	Katie Godfrey and Penny Thompson, of the
Clarkston Ward, gave a song.
	Bishop Funk said he was pleased to meet
with the children; was pleased with the pro-
gramme; encouraged the children to attend
their meetings.
	A Recitation by Maggie Jensen, of Clarks-
ton. Sister Pike, of Logan, said she was
pleased to meet so many of the little children;
would have been pleased to see more boys
present, and gave many good instructions.
	A song by Jessie Rigby. Bro. White, of
Clarkston, made some excellent remarks.
	Sister Crowther, of Logan, said she was
pleased to see the children taking their parts
so well, and made encouraging remarks.
	Adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Solomon Stone.
	Afternoon meeting, 2 p.m.: Called to order
by the Prest. of the Newton Primary. Sing-
ing, "Open the door for the children." Prayer
by Bro. Amos Clarke, Singing. A recitation
was given by Wm. Clarke, of Clarkston; Bible
reading, Matilda Atkinson, of Clarkston; Song,
Susette Shumway of Clarkston.
	Coun. Mary Larsen. of Newton, spoke a few
words. Sister Crowther, of Logan, gave a
recitation, entitled, "Stena;" Song, "Grandpapa's
Spectacles," was given by Janie Gorden, of
Logan.
	Sister Traber, of Providence, said she was
glad to meet with the children; thought we
had a very good Primary; they had about 200
in their Primary. Encouraged the boys to
come to meeting, and take the front seats, and
gave much good counsel. A recitation was
given by Harriet Griffin, of Newton. A card
on the "Knowledge of God" was given by Annie
and Rosie Jooslie and Percie Butters, of
Clarkston; Recitation, Janie Pack; Recitation,
"Annie's Ticket," Stena Hansen.
	Bro. Amos Clarke, of Newton, gave some
good instructions to the children.
	Sister Christensen, of Newton, instructed the
children to be kind and obedient to their par-
ents.
	Sister M. Larsen, of Newton, made a few
remarks; as also Mary Beck.
	Sister Pike, of Logan, spoke of kindness to
the aged. Encouraged the children to attend
the meetings, be kind to their parents and
leader, and the Lord would bless them.
	Bishop H. Funk, of Newton, said he was


[Column 1]
pleased with the day's proceedings; thanked the
sisters for their visit, etc.
	Prest. Bessie Griffin, of Newton, said she
was pleased to see so many sisters from other
wards, and hoped we might have the privilege
to meet often again.
	Singing, "I'll serve the Lord while I am
young."	Benediction by Bro. White of
Clarkston.
			Mary Beck, of Newton, Sec.

			Richmond P. A. 
	Report of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the
Richmond Primary Association, held June 1st,
1888, Prest. Mary Allsop presiding. Meeting
commenced at 10 a.m., by singing, "Gladly
Meeting." Prayer by Georgie Burnham, a
member of the Primary. Singing, "Children's
Song." Minutes of the last annual meeting
read and approved. Yearly report read and
adopted. The officers were presented and sus-
tained for the following year: Mary Allsop,
President; Mary Christensen, Maggie W.
Thompson, Harriet Fisher and Mary Merrill,
Counselors; Harriet E. Lawrence, Secretary;
Jane Hyer, Ass't Secretary; Carlton Burnham,
Treasurer.
	Programme: Music by the Primary Martial
Band; Recitation, Andrew Fieltman; Freddie
and Emma Merrill sang a song; Historical Ad-
dress, Rachel Knapp; Owal and Frank Hen-
dricks, a dialogue; Osmond Stottard, a song,
"Welcoming" Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen.
	Sister Emma Pike, of the Stake Presidency,
congratulated the Primary Band; counseled
the children to be kind and obedient to their
parents and teachers. Recitation, May Webb,
"Our Primary;" Hattie Fisher and Florence
Thompson, a song, "Nay, Speak No Ill;"
	Sister Almira J. Merrill  addressed the
children, and gave good instructions. "Never
be naughty and unkind to your brothers and
sisters; be courteous to all you meet."
	Prest. Jane E. Molen said she was pleased
to meet with us; complimented the leader of
the Primary Band for his faithful labors in
teaching the boys; hoped that the boys would
be faithful and obedient to their leader.
	Coun. C. Hyer spoke a short time; hoped
the children would all keep the word of wis-
dom.
	Singing, "Beautiful Zion." Benediction by
Bro. C. H. Monson.
	Afternoon session, at 2 o'clock p.m.: Sing-
ing, "I am not too young for God to see."
Prayer by Lucy Merrill, a little girl. Singing, 
"Always Cheerful."  Music by the Band.
Dialogue, Freddie Merrill, Carlton Burnham
and Alfred Woodland, entitled, "Give the
Little Boys a Chance;" Tempe Allen sang a
song, "Why should I Murmur."
	Sister Cornish, Prest. of the Coveville Prim-
ary, exhorted the children to pray for the
brethren who are in exile and prison.
	Cloe and Mary Burnham, a song; Recitation,
George O. Webb; Inez Rainey, a song. Bishop
L. Skidmore spoke to the children, giving
them some excellent instruction.    Minnie
Davenport and Clinton Burnham gave recita-
tions?
	Sister S. A. Merrill spoke a short time; told
the children never to go to bed at night without
praying for the Lord to protect them.  Millie
Hendricks and Susie Thomas sang a song.
	Prest. Jane E. Molen said, "We go to Prim-
ary to learn to be useful.  Girls, always be
kind and good to your brothers, and they in
turn will be kind and gentle with you.  Obey
your parents.  Always wish your parents good
night; pray for the sick; the Lord will hear and
answer the children's prayers.  Anna and
Mabel Knapp, a song.
	Sister Hyde said she had had a truly enjoy-
able time to day with the little children. "May
the Lord bless and preserve you."  Mary
Thompson sang a song.

[Column 2]
	C. H. Monson and D. P. Rainey gave the
children some excellent instruction.
	Prest. Mary Allsop thanked the parents for
coming to the meeting; also the sisters that had
come in; hoped to have health and strength to
be able to teach the children the principles of
the Gospel.
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us," etc. Benedic-
tion by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore.
	Statistical and financial report:  Number of
officers, 8; members, 202; officers and members,
210; average attendance, 90; number of meet-
ings held, 48.	In treasury:     Cash remaining
from previous year, $3.40; received from mem-
bers, $1.20; received from Primary entertain-
ment, $27.90; donations for Christmas tree,
$13.22; total amount received, $45.72. Dis-
bursements:  Paid for handkerchiefs for the
Band, $1.50; for writing materials, Bible stories
and pencil, $1.25; presented to the leader of
the Primary Band, $5.00; paid balance on
drums, $2.00; for material for Christmas tree,
$17.67; total amount expended, $27.42.   Cash
on hand, $8.30; Property on hand, $10.00.
		HARRIET E. LAWRENCE, Secretary.


