WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL
		  BY M. J. TANNER.
		      [Continued.]
	Ithaca, Monday, May 25th, 1885. Went to
a Presbyterian meeting with my cousin yester-
day, and improved the time making acquaint-
ances among them. There are four sisters and
a niece, all maiden ladies, and not a member of
this branch of the family to transmit the name.
Uncle John Bessac's family will all be gone when
they pass away. They tell me many, many
things of historical interest, and give me the
likeness of my great uncle, Henry Bessac, and
related anecdotes of Col. Nichols, who was
their great-grandfather, and mine by one more
removal. During the Revolutionary War, in
which he took an active part, Grandfather
Bessac was at the house of his father-in-law,
Col. Nichols, when it was attacked by tories.
A shot came through the window, grazing his
head; failing to kill him, they entered and beat
him over his head, the scars of which he
carried the rest of his life. They showed me
a letter, of which I kept a copy, written a
short time before his death.
	Wednesday, May 27. Weather pleasant.
Get another letter from home; all is well.
Answer it, and go with Cousin Calista to see
the Cornell University, which is on the hill
just above the town. The stage takes us up
the hill, and we walk to the conservatory. The
grounds are very pleasant. We go through
the building, and admire the flowers, the loveli-
est I ever saw. Go over to the main building,
and see the museum. Such a variety of stuffed
animals in glass cases. The first we notice is a
Bengal tiger; measures twelve feet from his
nose to the tip of the tail; he is a handsome
animal, but I admire him just where he is. In
the same case is a wild cat and several speci-
mens of house cat, another tiger and some
skeletons that I cannot name. In another case
is a noble looking deer, a camel and calf camel,
some skeletons, and a double calf, two heads,
two tails, two sets of legs and one body. There
are monkeys, snakes and birds, and a very
[Column 2]
handsome black bear, with a history; he never
killed anybody. The tiger had a history, too;
he was a man eater. Bones of a mastadon and
fac similes of skeletons, without labels; two
enormous turtles—a man might crawl inside
them. In the next story we see curiosities
from the sea; many of them are fac similes
made of colored glass, and show us the beau-
ties of the ocean; sponge and coral in great
variety, and a great variety of birds, some of
them very beautiful. It is time to close, and
we have to leave without going to the next
story.
	Thursday, 29th. Visit the farm or country
seat at Brookside, on the bank of Geauga Lake.
The rocks here are slate, and the lake is very
clear and pretty. The youngest sister lives
here during the summer, and their brother's
widow is with her. I am much interested in
them, and have a pleasant visit. We stay all
night and come home on the 11 a.m. train.
Take dinner with Calista.
	Saturday, May 30. This is Decoration
Day, and is a holiday. It rained all the fore-
noon, but in the afternoon we see a great many
people going with flowers to the cemetery. To-
wards evening I go out for a ride with a friend
of my cousin's. I am looking for a letter from
my aunt at Lockport. I do not know the
name of my cousin's husband, I only know her
as Cousin Emily, and the address, which is
No. 111, Vine St., as I have addressed all
my letters to my aunt.
	Monday, June 1. I intended going to Lock-
port to-day, bot have received no letter. I
have looked among my papers, but find no
name, so I conclude to wait another day.
	Tuesday, June 2. Concluded to travəl on
and take the chance of finding Cousin Emily.
I left Ithaca on the 6 a.m. train, arrived at
Lockport at 12 m. Asked the hackman to 
take me to 111, Vine Street. "What name?"
said the man. "I do not know the name,"
said I, "I only know the number. The lady
I am to meet is Mrs. Bond, but I do not know
the name of the gentleman with whom she is
stopping, I only have the post office address,
which is No. 111, Vine St." "Upper Town or
Lower Town?" "I do not know." "What is
the gentleman's occupation?" "He is a rail-
road man." I gave him the check for my
trunk; he came back, saying it was all right; it
was Robert Duff, and he was looking for me.
I felt quite relieved, for it placəd me in such a
foolish situation. When I drove up Aunt
Permelia came out to meet me. She was very
glad to see me, and my cousin welcomed me
very kindly, and I soon got acquainted. After
tea Cousin Emily and her daughter took me
for a walk. We go to the bridge near the locks.
The freight train, which came in soon after I
did, tipped some of their cars off the bridge,
which is over a very deep ravine or gulf,
through which the canal passes. Fortunately
they were near the bank, and the damage is
not as much as it might otherwise have been.
It was caused through the breaking of a wheel.
No lives were lost, but it is a great deal of
work to get the cars back on the track again,
and is an inconvenience to other trains that
wish to pass. We went down on the locks and
watched a boat go through. It is certainly a
wonderful piece of engineering skill. It is
built with immense stones, and looks as if it
might defy the wear of ages. They are made
to carry boats up and down hill. They form
boxes in which the boat enters, when a gate is
shut down, and the water fills in until the boat
raises on a level with the next box or lock. It
is drawn in by means of a span of mules on
the tow path. Another gate is closed behind
it, which floats it to a level with the next lock.
So it goes to the top of the hill. The boats
come down on the other side by the same pro-
cess. One channel is to go up and the other
to go down. Between the channels is filled
[Column 3]
with solid masonry steps, leading from one level
to another. Stone steps lead down the bank,
and everything in the evening air is "stone
cold."
	We return to the house, stopping on the
way at a grocery store to make a few pur-
chases. The proprieter says he keeps free
lunch: " A glass of water and cold shoulder."


