TO MY FRIENDS:
	Some years ago; while reading the autobiog-
raphy of that noble apostle, Parley P. Pratt,
I was deeply impressed with the scene described
in the paragraphs I will hereafter transcribe,
and at different times, amid my many duties
and cares, my spirit has held communion with
itself, holding up to the eyes of my soul the
picture upon that page of his existence.
	Its pathos and grandeur have lingered when
I have striven to put them aside, and have fol-
lowed me when I have turned to other things.
	Often has that spirit picture seemed to lean
across the space and silence of the years that
have intervened since it transpired, and reach-
ing to the present time, seemed to say; "Who
will embody this midnight's story with shape,
that shall stand forth in power, that by its own
eloquence and truth shall live again and eter-
nally in the hearts of our children, and all
who hereafter shall learn the story of Joseph,
the Prophet!"
	An author's words, however glorious in their
power and beauty, often miss reaching the
heart of the general reader, as gems may be
overlooked among commoner stones; but sculp-
ture and pictures have reached the souls of
even those who cannot read. Even the rabble
in great cities know much of history by monu-
ments alone.
	Among the many scenes of Joseph's life,
more wonderful than fiction, this one, in which
he used the majesty and might of his priest-
hood's authority (almost God-like in the hu-
man), stands perhaps without a rival.
	During the past winter I began work upon
this subject, and after an interruption of three
weeks (caused by a broken wrist), resumed and
completed a pencil drawing. This I took to
Mr. Dan Weggeland, and engaged him to re-
produce the same in a painting, from which
large photographs will be taken.
	While working upon it, Mr. Weggeland
said: "It is the finest thing that has ever been
brought before this people." And he has
spared none of his own genius to do justice to
the subject.
	The picture is the prison scene, lighted by a
lantern. The ruffian guards occupy one side;
Joseph, and Parley, who slept beside him, are
the central figures. Among the other impris-
oned Saints will be recognized Hyrum, Amasa,
Sydney Rigdon and his daughter, Mrs. Robin-
son, with her infant, who was permitted to
nurse and care for her father and husband.
	I have endeavored to portray the moment
when Joseph could no longer endure the taunts
of those vile men, and in the kingly majesty of
his priesthood rebuked them. I have sought
carefully to have the picture one of historical
fidelity, and to faithfully represent the spirit
and emotions of the weary and suffering Saints,
also the terror of the Missouri guards, as de-
scribed by Parley: "In one of those tedious
nights we had lain in sleep until the hour of
midnight had passed. I had listened till I
had become so disgusted, shocked, horrified,
and so filled with the spirit of indignant justice
that I could scarcely refrain from rising upon
my feet and rebuking the guards, but had said
nothing to Joseph or anyone else, although I
lay next to him and knew he was awake. On
a sudden he arose to his feet, and spoke in a
voice of thunder, or as the roaring lion, utter-


ing, as near as I can remember, the following
words:
	" 'SILENCE, ye fiends of the infernal pit.
In the name of Jesus Christ I rebuke you and
command you to be still.  I will not live an-
other minute and hear such language.  Cease
such talk, or you or I die THIS INSTANT!'
	"He ceased to speak.  He stood erect in
terrible majesty. Chained, and without a 
weapon; calm, unruffled and dignified as an
angel, he looked upon the quailing guards,
whose weapons were lowered or dropped to the
ground, whose knees smote together, and who,
shrinking into a corner or crouching at his
feet, begged his pardon, remaining quiet until
a change of guards.
	"I have seen the ministers of justice clothed
in magisterial robes and criminals arraigned
before them, while life was suspended upon a
thread, in the Courts of England; I have wit-
nessed a Congress in solemn assembly to give
laws to nations; I have tried to conceive of
kings, of royal courts, of thrones and crowns
and emperors assembled to decide the fate of
kingdoms; but dignity and majesty have I seen
but once, as it stood in chains, at midnight, in a
dungeon in an obscure village of Missouri.—
Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 229.
	The title of my picture, for which I have
duly made entry for copyright is:
	JOSEPH REBUKING THE GUARD.
	At Richmond Jail, Ray Co., Missouri.
	Should you honor me with your subscription
and the work hereafter fail to meet your ap-
probation, I will return the amount you ad-
vance to assist me.
	Respectfully,
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah,
	August 25, 1888.


