EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President of the Re-
lief Society, has returned recently from her visit to
the North-west. Sister Zina left the city last
Spring, April 24, and on her trip via. Portland
visited her son Lieut. W. Young remaining there
a few days, then proceeding to Alberta, which she
reached on the 7th of May, after a pleasant and
happy season spent with her beloved daughter,
Zina Y. Card, who, by the by, has a little girl,
born while "Aunt Zina" was there, and named Zina.
and other friends, she bade good-bye for a little
time, and returned home by way of Montana,
reaching this city on the 16th inst. in excellent
health and spirits to renew her labors here in the
important mission to which she has been called
and assigned.
	ON Tuesday, 18th of September, in company
with Sisters M. I. Horne and B. W. Smith we at-
tended the Annual meeting at Sandy, Mrs. W.
Olsen, presiding. The report of the last year and
minutes of the last yearly meeting were read and
showed their affairs to be in good condition. At
noon a sumptuous dinner was served in the So-
cial Hall of which about a hundred people par-
took. At the afternoon meeting the officers of
the stake and ward were presented and sustained.
A good spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion was imparted during the day. Several breth-
ren were present and those who spoke gave the
sisters every encouragement possible.
	THE Fair, which will open in this city on the
third of this month (October), will be quite an
 event in the history of Utah, as it gives promise
of being of much importance to those interested
in building up the Territory, and to display its in-
dustries, manufacturies and specimens of its re-
sources also. The building is a substantial one
of handsome brick, and well designed for its
purpose. As the time of the opening of the Fair
draws near, much enthusiasm on the subject is
perceptible. The directors are certainly energetic
and persevering, and are methodically arranging
[ COLUMN 2]
and carrying out the desired purpose. Success
to the Fair and to those who are doing the head
work, and so forth.
	ON the 25th of August, in company with Sisters
P. L. Kimball and E. S. Taylor, we attended the
annual meeting of the Relief Society of Union.
Mrs. E. Richards is the venerable President, and
Mrs. M. A. Smart a most able and efficient Secre-
tary. The annual report and minutes of last
annual meeting were read, and some other busi-
ness transacted. The reports showed the Society
to be in a flourishing condition. Much good in-
struction was given. At noon  there was a dinner
prepared for a number of the guests at the residence
of Coun. M. H. Brady. Another meeting was
held in the afternoon, at which much encourage-
ment was given by Coun. E. S. Taylor and other
visitors, and many testimonies were borne by the
local sisters. The Bishop was present at the
meeting, and addressed the sisters in the after-
noon, instructing them in the performance of their
duties, and encouraging them in the good work of
relieving the poor and comforting the downcast,
etc. Sister Kimball, in her remarks dwelt much
upon the early days, when Joseph the Prophet
was among the people, his teachings to her and
others.
	ON Monday, the 17th of September, Apostle
Geo. Q. Cannon was sent to the Penitentiary,
having voluntarily given himself up, knowing that
an indictment had been found against him for un-
lawful cohabitation, long before, on which account
he had been a long time in exile. This is the
second time an Apostle has been sentenced under
the Edmunds law. The first of the Apostles
to suffer imprisonment was Bro. Lorenzo Snow,
a veteran in the ranks of the Twelve. It seems a
remarkable thing, that in free and enlightened
America, men should be punished as criminals
because of the exercise of their religious convic-
tions; men with whom no fault could be found ex-
cept carrying out a principle given as a command-
ment from the Almighty. Yet such are the facts
before the world. Geo. Q. Cannon in the Con-
gress of the United States, when a Delegate from
Utah, was recognized there by members and
others, ladies and gentlemen of culture and re-
finement, and of the highest social standing, as a
man free from every appearance of evil; exem-
plary in word and deed, and in deportment.
Every person who approached him or associated
with him, felt this, and instinctively knew him to
be an upright, conscientious man. It was the
good fortune of the writer to hear such testimony
from a number of people in the city of Washington,
both from men and women, when they spoke of
the Utah Delegate. Now, instead of a seat in
the house of Congress, he occupies a prison cell,
but his heart is as pure, and his life as blameless
as when he mingled with the nation's statesmen,
and the love of the people will be increased. The
prayers of the Latter-day Saints, and their child-
ren, the Sunday School children of Zion, are
offered daily in his behalf to the God of Israel,
and He will answer them in blessing upon his
head, and his prison life will be cheered, and the
time seem short to him, by reason of the mighty
faith exercised in his behalf. Be of good cheer,
for "the Lord will comfort Zion."


