THE AUTUMN.
Ah! this is the saddest time of the year,
Methinks I have heard, that the poets sing,
When days are gloomy, and landscape drear,
And the birds of passage are on the wing;
For the woods are brown and the fields are bare,
And the chill of Autumn is ev’rywhere.

I'll hie me away to some cosy nook,
’Mong the mossy rocks and the falling leaves,
And study awhile “Dame Nature’s book”
And gather a few of her choicest sheaves;
For this is her mellowest harvest time—
The season of sentiment, most sublime.

The hills are crowned with foliage gay,
Rich royal purple, brown, yellow and red;
But the skies are leaden, and dull and gray
And the summer flowr’s are lying dead;
Pale, withered garlands are round us strewn;
Yet a mantle of beauty is o’er them thrown.

 We think of the lov’d ones gone like the flow’rs,
Whose fragrance still lingers around the place;
And pensive and lonely are the hours,
As memorys’delicate lines we trace;
And the sere and yellow leaf entwine;
And lay the chaplet upon love’s shrine.

Oh; fanciful visions so far away,
Over the hills and the mountains too;
Farther and farthar my footsteps stray,
And quicker my heart doth the way pursue;
For the sunlight guides, and the shadows flee,
And the beautiful vista, is fair to see.

And I haste as it were with charmed feet,
While my heart beats high with passion wild,
List! I hear the music so soft and sweet,
I heard when a winsome, innocent child;
’Tis the rustle of leaves, and the sighing breeze,
And the murmur of voices ’mong the trees.

They whisper to me, and I answer too—
Though never a sound escapes from my lips
Yet, I know the message they bring is true
And I feel it thrill to my finger tips,
Ev’ry sense I possess affirms its truth,
And echoes back to the days of my youth.

Yes, the past with its gleam of love and light,
Its sunshine and shadow	its smiles and tears,
Has a rainbow of promise ever bright.
That lightens the path of my future years, 
And my faith grows stronger as time rolls by, 
That the goal I’m seeking is drawing nigh.

But I've flown so far in my dreamy flight,
That perhaps ’tis time to retrace my way;
I fear the present is lost to my sight,
Better come back to the scenes of to-day;
For mortals must deal with the things that are real,
Tho’ poets oft wander ’mid the ideal.

What’s this I’ve been dreaming here by the fire,
While in fancy I flew far o’er the hills? 
What symphony grand did my soul inspire, 
While a magic elixir my bosom thrills?
’Tis night and I’m sitting here quite alone,
And the beautiful visions I saw have flown.

I hear only the wierd and tragic wind,
As it whistles and shrieks and moans and sighs;
Ah, this is the potent power I find
Which brought me the genii, so wondrous wise
That opened the realm of poetic thought
And tender branches of evergreen sought.

These were remembrances loving and true,
Scattered at intervals over life’s way,
The pleasures we shared, the friends we know,
That are fresh and and green in our hearts to-day;
Fragments of beauty from out the dead past,
Which over our lives have a halo cast.
								E. B. W.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
Nottingham, July, 1888.
EDITOR MILLENNIAL STAR:
	DEAR BROTHER:— Among the events that
have recently taken place is one worthy of
mention in the columns of The Star. I refer
to the visit of my aunt, Sister Isabəlla M. 
Horne, to her native country (England), after
an absence of fifty-six years. She was accom-
panied by her sister, Harriet Ellis, of Wood's
Cross, Utah, and her son, Richard S. Horne.
	This venerable lady left her home in Salt
Lake City, Utah, on the 12th of May last, and
reached Glasgow on the 30th of the same month.
	During her stay in England she visited
Rainham, in Kent, her birthplace, went into
the old home of her girlhood, and attended
religious services in the old church, where she
was christened in February, 1819. Sister
Horne has availed herself of opportunities of
mingling with the Saints, particularly with the
sisters of the Relief Society, giving them good
counsel and words of encouragement, and re-
lating much of her experience among the
Saints from 1836 to the present. At London
she held quite a controversy with two of the
leading ladies of the woman's suffrage cause,
and succeeded in removing some prejudice and
imparting information concerning "Mormon-
ism," the "Mormons," and their beliefs and
practices, that was new light to them. 
One of the ladies was very curious to know
how polygamous families get along, and
pointedly asked Sister Horne if her husband
was a man of many wives. "My husband has
other wives," was the reply. With eyes wide
open, expressive of the greatest astonishment,
the lady asked, "How did you feel?" "Just as
you would feel," replied my aunt. "I am a
woman like yourself, and, but for my religious
convictions, would no more have consented for
my husband to take another wife than you 
would; but I know that the principle of plural
or celestial marriage is true and from God. 
God has spoken from the heavens, and raised
up the boy-prophet, Joseph Smith, to establish
His kingdom on the earth in these the last days,
and I have a testimony of the truth of these
things. I have had the honor of entertaining
the Prophet in my own home, and know that
he was a man of God." "Well, but you don't
expect to convert us to these things?" "Oh,
no, madame. If we wished to convert you to 
our religious belief, we would begin with the
first principles, not with the highest and most
exalted ones."
	At Shrewsbury one of the ladies whom Sis-
ter Horne met there stated that she had read a
book written against the "Mormons," in which
the declaration was made that President Brig-
ham Young was in the habit of murdering his
wives when he became tired of them. Sister
Horne looked the speaker in the face and asked,
"And did you believe such trash as that?" "I 
did, for I knew nothing to the contrary." "I
am surprised," said Sister Horne, "that any
sensible woman should credit such falsehoods.
No man loved his family more dearly than did
Brigham Young, and he was greatly beloved
by them." The lady expressed pleasure at
hearing these statements in emphatic refutation
of the outrageous slander. 
Mr. Editor, here was one of Utah's "down-
rodden" women, "escaped" from her home

[Column 2]
among the Mormons, defending their religion
and bearing testimony of its truth after fifty-
two years of personal experience among that
people, frequently saying she would be glad to 
return to her mountain home among the
Saints.
	Now let the bawling Jarman, or any other
defamer of Utah's women, forever hold his
peace; for here is a living rebuttal to his foul
aspersions in regard to them.
	No freer women live on the earth than the
women of Utah, and nowhere else are they
placed on such equality with men; nor is her
virtue more carefully and jealously guarded
than among the Mormons, as evidenced by the
testimony of Sister Horne. 
Your brother, etc.,
GEO G. HALES.
—Millennial Star.


