"LIFE OF JOSEPH SMITH."
	The new work, entitled, the "Life of Joseph
Smith," has just recently been published at the
office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Apostle Geo.
Q. Cannon is the author, and one need hardly say
it is exceptioually well written, when the author's
name is given.  His ability as a journalist, editor
and author, is well established, and the Latter-day
Saints, who so love the memory of Joseph, their
beloved martyr-prophet, and his brother, Hyrum,
the martyr-patriarch, will, we are sure, have great
pleasure and satisfaction in reading and possess-
ing a book containing their history, recorded by
one whose accuracy in all matters of historical
data can be safely relied upon.  We give below
the author's preface and it speaks for itself in
tones not to be mistaken of the genuineness and 
truthfulness of the history.  No writer could have
a more sublime theme than the man (Joseph Smith
the Prophet), and the work established by him in
the dispensation of the fulness of times.
			AUTHOR'S PREFACE.
	"Joseph and Hyrum are now dead; but, like the
first martyr, they yet speak.  Their united voice
is one of testimony, admonition and warning to
the world.


"They lived men of God. They died pure and
holy, sealing their testimony with their blood.
	"No men ever suffered greater persecution than
they; no men were ever less understood by their
generation.
	"It is in the hope that the Saints may find joy in
reading of their beloved Prophet and Patriarch,
and that the world may judge more fairly of these
benefactors of mankind, that this book is writ-
ten.
	"To the Author its preparation has been a lov-
ing duty. In the midst of a somewhat busy and
laborious life, he has found comfort in the con-
templation of this great subject. The closing
chapters, detailing the final sufferings upon earth
of the Prophet of God and his ever-constant
brother, were finished in a prison for adherence
to the principles which they taught, and for this,
the Life is invested with a dearer regard. To
send the work away now is like being torn from
a beloved companion when most the solace of his
friendly presence is needed.
	"In some respects this volume may be imperfect;
the circumstances which surrounded its prepara-
tion were not favorable to the collection and
arrangement of materials. But it is believed to be
truthful and just.
	"To many friends the Author is indebted for
information here embodied; and he takes this oc-
casion to thank them, hoping to live yet to meet
them and express his gratitude in the flesh.
	"That the sublime example and inspired teach-
ings of Joseph, the Prophet of the Last Dispensa-
tion, may be of eternal benefit to all who read this
Life, is the heart-felt wish of
		"THE AUTHOR.
	Utah Penitentiary, Oct. 1, 1888.


