DESCRIPTIVE LETTER. 

	MURRAY, Idado, Sept. 5, 1888.
*	*	We had to stop over at Umatilla
twenty-three hours at the most miserable hotel
one could imagine. All the folks, excepting
myself, strolled down to the banks of the
Columbia River, that runs not more than a
block or two from the hotel.
	Papa met us at Spokane; we stayed not more
than fifteen minutes, and what we could see of
the town from the depot, it looked like a very
pretty, as well as a very enterprising city. We
took the U.P. to the Couer-d'-alene Lake; it is
about an hour's ride. It was real early when
we landed; about half past five a.m. We had
breakfast and dinner on the steamer; it was
my first experience of the kind, and I enjoyed
it immensely, as did all the folks of our party.
How I wished every minnte you were there to
enjoy it with me.
	Oh, I never was on such a lovely lake—I
shall not go back on dear old Salt Lake, don't
for a moment think it, but this was so different.
The water is so very deep that it looks a dark
green color, and on every side the mountains
are covered with dense groves of pine, fir, cedar
and spruce. The captain of the steamer was
so very nice; took us all over it, and showed us
all the points of interest. After we leave the
lovely lake, we go up the Couer-d'-lene River,
which is just as beautiful as the lake in its way.
It bends and winds around the grand old moun-
tains like some great snake. When we were
about half way up the river, the captain
pointed out a large mountain as Medicine
Mountain; they say the Indians worship it, and
whenever they are sick they come here and
pray to it, thinking it will cure them. A very
strange idea, isn't it? but then, I think it is
quite reasonable, for Indians.
	Along the river's banks there are great piles
of wood, all chopped and split. The Indians
up here are quite industrious; they chop wood
all the time, and sell it to the white men.	*
	I must tell you, dear grandma, about the
old father that traveled with us from Spokane
to the old mission; he was the first white man
that ever came here; he is about eighty-four
years old; and came here fifty years ago. I
cannot at present recall his name, but he is
such a dear old man; the mission have done a
noble work with the red-men in this part of
the country. After we land we take the train
to Osborn, and about a mile or so from where


we start we come to the old mission; they say
the old mission house that was built when they
first came here has not a single nail in it; 'tis
made with wooden pins; I have seen many like
it illustrated in the Harper of the old mission
in Southern Cal. The old father's name is
Father Joset, it just now occurred to me.
	At Osborn we saw from a distance our future
home; that is, the building spot. It is thickly
covered with great tall pines, spruce and firs,
some over a hundred feet high, and at the back,
not many rods away, runs the river. There are
not many buildings there as yet, but as soon
as all build that have lots over there, we will
have quite a town. If you were well I'm sure
you would enjoy the trip over the mountains
from Osborn to Murray, which is about eighteen
miles. You wind first around one mountain
and then another, until it makes one almost
dizzy. Oh, the mountains, the mountsins, they
are so beautiful; our mountains at home are
grand, but these are really beautiful, with their
dense groves of trees and underbrush.
Murray has two streets only; Main St. runs
East and West; the other runs South into Main.
Murray is built in a small gulch, half a mile
across in the widest place. We have two daily
papers and one weekly; quite an enterprising
little place.
	I'm sure you would enjoy sitting out on our
porch, where you could hear the water rushing
down day and night; 'tis so cold at morn-
ing and evening, that one has to wear heavy
clothes.
	Very lovingly,
