THE OLD GARRET.

	In the old-fashioned garret! Methinks, I
hear some one say rubbish! that's all there is
in a garret. Not so fast, gentle reader; allow me
to tell you that in the garret there is inspira-
tion for the muse, and for me there is romance
in the old New England garrets, which haunts
me still, and

		"Oft in the stilly night,
		Ere slumber's chain hath bound me, 
	Fond memory brings the light,
		Of other days around me."

And I find myself among the "old lumber" in
the selfsame garret where I played so much
when a child and I wrote my first poor verses,
at eight years old, and where I was continually
making new discoveries of old lace and rib-
bons for my dolls. There is as much poetry
in it as there is in the parlor, and more. Par-
lors are very prosy, prim affairs, and one is
always afraid of doing the wrong thing in one
of those old-fashioned ones, that are never
opened except on grand occasions; and never,
one might almost say, for children. I remem-
ber parlor chairs, with their straight, upright
backs, and funny, tall legs, used to seem to
stare at me, when a little girl I crept in softly
to take a peep around; and I said then, and I
maintain it still, that I would never shut up the
best room in the house and make it gloomy
and dark, to be used only for company.
	But if there is anything more inspiring than
a musty old garret, it is spring time, groves,
meadows brooks, waterfalls, woods, orchards
and the like, nature's haunts; these are all sug-
gestive and poetical, and especially when the
birds are singing their sweetest notes in the
tree tops, and the boughs nodding and swaying,
keeping a sort of irregular time to the un-
written music of the songsters. Ah, yes, apple-
blossoms, they come with the early spring, and
if I am going to talk of garrets, and old books,
and antiquities generally, and grandmothers,
and old maids, and love letters, I must shut
out the scent of lilacs; the violets and the pink

[Column 2]

and white apple-blossoms, and their dainty,
subtle perfume, or I shall wander off into
dreamland. I must confess that garrets are not
so exquisite or charming as these, but they have
a history, some of them at least.
	I do not know if there are such old houses
standing now, as there were in the country
towns in Massachusetts, thirty-five years ago,
but the pictures of them, outside and in, are
fresh in my mind to-day. I am very much
afraid most of them are remodeled, for this is
a stylish age we are living in; but when I was
a little girl there were many such romantic
places, and each one of them had a garret.
	In one of these, "long, long ago," a little
girl was playing; her dolls were finely arranged
in dainty bits of beautiful things, and she her-
self in such a funny gown (not dresses then,
but gowns), she had found in an old, old
dresser. It was gored in long, narrow strips,
and withal would scarcely fit her little figure,
but it was red and blue changeable silk, bright
and gay, heavy enough to stand alone, and the
short waist, and shorter sleeves, were trimmed
with very yellow lace, just ready to drop to
pieces with age. The child was a quaint one,
and the dress was queerer still—but a spell
seemed upon her, she was always thoughtful,
and at this particular time she was very pen-
sive. I don't mind telling you a few of her
thoughts. She might almost be called vision-
ary, for she seemed to see the future all in a
panorama, spread out before her, very much as
we who have lived long, look back over the
days that are past. She had been rummaging
more than usual, and trying to rake up some-
thing fresh; and she had succeeded, for away in
the furthermost corner of the garret, from un-
der the very eaves of the house, she dragged
out a budget of old papers, tied in bundles. So
sitting upon a broken stool, in her silk and
lace, she began to investigate these old papers.
First of all, she solilquized: "I like old things
that are pretty and have a history, like old
pictures and silks and laces, and beads, and
jewelry, that I hear the big girls talk so much
about. and I dearly love to play here in the
garret, and make believe I am a woman and
all that, but old papers like these are useless.
I can't see what people save them for, unless
they are deeds, or records, or valuables of that
description, and those are always locked up in
desks, and some man carries the key. Yes,
some man, I wonder why women don't? They
have the keys of the parlor and cellar and
pantry, and the big chest of drawers, where
valuable linen is kept, but then I suppose
women have nothing to do with papers, and
documents, and so on."
	But I am afraid I am telling you too much;
I musn't tell you all she thought and felt, but
merely say that she became so fascinated with
the contents of the papers, that she forgot the
curious way in which she was rigged out, and
kept on reading and reading until it began to
grow dim in the strange place, and all the
while through the open window came the
dainty perfume of the apple-blossoms, for it
was springtime then; O so many years ago, I
was about to tell you how many, but I think I
wont, or you might guess how old that little
girl is now, and that would be too bad, you
know, for women, I've heard, seldom like to
have their correct age known. By and by her
sister came to look for her, and made her take
off all her finery, and scolded her too for get-
ting herself so dusty and musty with the old
papers, and told her they were only rubbish
that ought to be burnt, but—(Well, we'll call
her Rosabel) didn't think so, and she went
back day after day, until it was a byword in
the old home, that—Rosabel lived in the gar-
ret. She didn't go there without a purpose,
though, she left off playing with dolls all of a
sudden, and forgot to dress herself up any
more, but she remembered to leave the window

[Column 3]

open to let in the sunshine and the sweet scent
of the lilacs and apple-blossoms, and hour
after hour she would sit so quietly, that the
stillness was almost painful, and yet no one
must disturb her.
	A light had dawned upon her in that out of
the way place, she had found out that women
sometimes put their thoughts upon paper, and
she conceived the idea of making rhymes, or
jingle; that was why she wanted to be so much
alone, and needed the fresh perfume from out-
side; it rested her, and helped clothe her
thoughts. A little at a time the secret leaked
out that Rosabel actually thought she could
write a book. Was this very absurd? Folks
seemed to think so, and her mother, who was
very practical, tried to convince her that little
girls didn't write books all at once, and there
was much good hard work aud study to be
done by way of preparation. That even her
grandmother had studied hard, and had a good
education before she attempted to write those
old love letters, which had so enchanted poor
Rosabel. "You are getting strange notions
into your head," she said to the child, "you
must go away to school and write compositions,
and they must be corrected, and after a long
time it may be that you can write something
readable." Poor Rosabel! how crest fallen!
all her glorious visions of fame were about to
be dispelled, for I will tell you another secret
now, her mother was strong-minded, and wanted
her daughter to be a woman, and not a senti-
mental wishy-washy novel writer. I can't tell
you all Rosabel's life history now, but some
day I am almost certain some little girl or
woman, poking about in a musty old garret will
find  it in manuscript.
