EDITORIAL PARTY.
	On the 12th of September a party of editors
from Dakota, accompanied by a number of
ladies, while on a flying visit to our city, visited,
among other points of interest, the Tabernacle,
and listened with surprise and rapture to the
melody of the grand organ, produced by the
skillful playing of Joseph J. Daynes; after
which they took  the afternoon train for Gar-
field Beach, to enjoy the Lake and its attrac-
tions. A short ride of questioning expectancy, 
and then with eager haste they secured their
dressing rooms, and soon after were in the water,
some advancing with noisy splashing and ven-
turesome dives, while others proceeded with
more cautious efforts; but all fear soon vanished
in the persuasive luxury of the softly lapping
waves.
	A gladsome picture is presented by the
groups of happy faces, the bright and laughing
eyes of the pleasure seekers, as they dip and
float on the bosom of the buoyant lake; peals
of laughter and gleeful cries of delight float
out on the air, until the onlooker above in the
pavilion merrily smiles from very sympathy.
	When at length the delicious pastime has
been sufficiently indulged in, the pavilion
afforded the next attraction, and the graceful
waltzers kept time to the enticing strains of
music from the uniformed band, which accom-
panied the party; others, too, engaged in con-
versation, the "Saints" and their city being
the main topics. Through the courtesy of Mr.
Davis, manager of the excursion party, we re-
ceived introductions to quite a number, and an
animated colloquy followed; curious but cour-
teous were the visitors in regard to the "very
peculiar" religion of the Latter-day Saints.
When "all aboard" was announced, regret
was expressed that time would not permit of
further conversation, and a cordial invitation
was given, and accepted, to meet again in the
evening, when the broken thread of afternoon
converse was taken up and pleasantly spun
around the room. A moonlight drive with
three of the party, was not the least pleasant
feature of the day's diversion.
	Among those whose brief acquaintance we
shall pleasantly remember is, Mrs. Irene
Adams, a literary lady, who desired to see a
copy of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and received
a promise to have some sent to her address;
also Mr. Davis, Prest. of the Dakota Press
Association, Mr. Bliss and wife, Prest. of the
Dakota Board of Agriculture, Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo Wardell, Mr. and Mrs. Bronsen, and
others, all of editorial repute, while not least
among them was Reverend Mr. Murray, the
"Cow Boy Preacher" of Dakota.


Withal; it is surprising the mistaken and
improbable notions that many people visit us
with. Surely a wide missionary field is open
to give the truth to those who come in our
midst, as well as those in whose midst we go, 
and thereby remove much prejudice, that
many people carry with them after visiting
our beautiful and prosperous city.
