A PLEASANT PAYTY.

	On Saturday, Sept. 8th, 1888, a surprise
party was given by the 1st Ward Primary
Association of Richfield, in respect to Bishop
Poulson and Bro. Peterson, who were to start
for Provo the following Monday to stand their
trials for unlawful cohabitation.
	At 2  o'clock p.m. the Presidency and mem-
bers of the Association, their parents, together
with the leading brethren and sisters of the
city (making a total of 160), gathered at the
Social Hall, and awaited the arrival of the
brethren. After they came, the meeting was
opened with singing and prayer. There was
an appropriate programme, consisting of songs,
recitations, essays; etc., rondered by the child-
ren; also some interesting remarks, made by
Bishop Joseph S. Horne, Bro. N. C. B. Orrock,
Simon Christenson and W. G. Baker. Bishop
Poulson and Bro. Peterson expressed their
gratitude for the respect shown to them, and
thanked the people for the same; said they
were greatly surprised. They were presented
with a few dollars as a token of remembrance
from the Association.
	The tables were then spread with delicious
and various kinds of picnic, and  blessed by
Bro. Victor E. Bean. The people then par-
took of the refreshments.
	There was a special meeting called the same
afternoon, for the purpose of reorganizing the
Association. Stake Prest. Lucy Heppler pre-
sided. Sister Nancy M. Nebeker, who had
been laboring as President in the Association
for the past six years, and having had to con-
tend with very poor health for three years,
read her resignation, which was accepted, and
she was honorably released, having done a
very noble work, and being very much beloved
by the children.
	Sister Minnie A. Nebeker was put in as
President, with Ellen Oberg and Olena Olsen
as her Counselors.
	Sister Heppler gave instructions to the new
officers and children; thought Sister Nebeker
and her Counselors had done a very noble
work, and had been interested in the welfare of
the Association, and in teaching the children
true principles.			
	Bishop Poulson arose and remarked, that
President Nancy M. Nebeker and Coun. Ruth
Hayward had labored faithfully in the Prim-
ary, and had done a noble work, and would
receive a great reward for their labors.
	The officers were set apart to their different
offices, and the meeting was dismissed. Every
body returned to their homes feeling that they
had spent an agreeable and enjoyable after-
noon.
	On Sept. 22nd a surprise was given by the
new President and the Association to President
Nancy M. Nebeker and Coun. Ruth Hayward,
in honor of their faithful labors in the Primary.
Sister Nebeker was presented with a rug, and
Sister Hayward with a quilt. Other presents
were given to them, the rug and quilt being
made by the children. Picnic was partaken of,
and a nice programme rendered.
	Very respectfully,
		A. N.


He who comes up to his own idea of great-
ness must always have had a very low standard
of it in his mind.—Hazlilt.


