		NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	There are four Siamese ladies studying in
England.
	New York city has ten reformatories for the
rescue and help of fallen women. Fifty years
ago there was not one.

[Column 2]
	Princess Eugene of Sweden has sacrificed
her family jewels to build a  hospital for crip-
ples upon an island off the coast.
	The Empress of Japan is rapidly becoming
one of the best-informed women of her time.
She is a diligent student of German, Russian,
French, and Italian.
	The Directors of the Western Pennysylvania
Medical College in Pittsburg, Pa., have de-
clared against the admission of women as stu-
dents, and refused the applications of six young
women.
	The Association for the Advancement of
Women, better known as the Woman's Con-
gress, will hold its annual meeting November
14, 15 and 16, with preliminary meeting on
the evening of the 13th, at Detroit, Mich.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has come out
for the Prohibition Party. She says: "In a
critical review of the different party platforms,
I find more promise of social reorganization in
the Prohibition platform than in either of the
others."
	Another woman has passed her examination
and will soon be admitted as a member of the
Suffolk County (Boston) bar. When admitted,
Miss Mary A. Green will be the second Massa-
chusetts woman lawyer, Miss Lelia J. Robin-
son being the first.
	"The Prevention of Prostitution" was the
theme of an able and suggestive paper, pre-
sented by Dr. Rebecca C. Hallowell at the
thirteenth annual meeting of the Alumnae As-
sociation of the Woman's Medical College of
Pennsylvania.
	Cremation of  garbage is to be practiced in
Minneapolis, a furnace for the purpose hav-
ing been authorized by the council. This is
certainly the right way and the only sensible
way to dispose of substances which, uncon-
sumed, pollute the air and water of cities.—Ex.
	An informal reception was given Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton by her Chicago friends, at
the Sherman House, on the afternoon of Sept.
2. Addresses were made by Mrs. Stanton, the
Baroness Gripenberg, who was in the city on
her return from the Pacific Coast, and Judge
Waite.
	Clara Barton has given $1.000 out of her
own pocket to the yellow fever sufferers. As
President of the American Association of the
Red Cross, she has been appealed to by the
Jacksonville Board of health to establish a 
headquarters there, and she has given the
necessary orders to the organization throughout
the country to come to the aid of the stricken
city.
	The Chicago Central W. C. T. U. carries on
two day-nurseries (where an aggregate of over
14,000 children were cared for last year), two
kindergartens, two industrial schools, two medi-
cal dispensaries, a waif's Sabbath School, a
nightly gospel Temperance meeting, a free
lodging house for men, where 60,000 were
lodged during the year, and a lunch-room just
opened.
	The poet Whittier is a sweet-souled Quaker,
but even Quakers decline to be slandered. Re-
garding the recent charge of a Southern news-
paper, that Mr. Whittier was an enemy to the
South, the venerable poet recently wrote a
friend: "I was never an enemy to the South or
the holders of slaves. I inherited from my
Quaker ancestry hatred of slavery, but not of
slave-holders. To every call of suffering or
distress in the South I have promptly responded
to the extent of my ability. I was one of the
very first to recognize the rare gift of the
Carolinian poet, Timrod, and I was the intimate

[Column 3]
friend of the lamented Paul H. Hayne, though
both wrote fiery lyrics against the North. I
am sure no one rejoices more heartily than I
do at the prosperity of the Southern States."—
Ex.

	The highest exercise of charity is charity
toward the uncharitable.—Buckminster.


