Enemies of Friendship By N. I. Butt
A LIMITED number of your friends may stick with you in spite of what to most people are very annoying things about you. In general, however, others will shun you if your irritating habits are more repulsive than the desirable qualities are attractive to them. Eliminate the annoyances so that the benefits from your friendship can be obtained with more pleasure, and your friendships will grow more warm and more numerous.
Some people are unconscious of the relative importance of things which are repulsive to others, and, therefore, they do not know how to make themselves open to the widest friendship. Test yourself in the following three situations which might make or break friendships according to the relative importance you place on the different items. Then compare your choices with their average repulsiveness to several hundred people as given on the same items later in this article.
You are in a sweltering room just finishing with the fruit preserving when the telephone rings and a friend tells you she is bringing to your home in fifteen minutes the new Doctor's wife, who will live two blocks away. Your best shoes need shining, there is a hole in the stocking you must wear, there is a button conspicuously off your dress, and the only suitable dress is also badly wrinkled so it needs pressing though an old dress is clean and pressed, your finger nails need cleaning, the fruit stains on your hands look filthy, and you must choose between strong perfume and a bath. There is not time for all. In order to leave the best impression with this prospective new friend, what things should you do first?
Again suppose your mother-in-law, whose good will you wish to retain, phones that she will be there in half an hour and stay for the night. Little Willie has been on the guest bed with his muddy feet, tucking his dirty teddy-bear into the clean sheets, a trip to the bathroom shows both the wash-basin and the tub to be very dirty, you know that Martha put the drinking glasses in the cupboard while they were cloudy with milk, the children have left dirty clothes scattered throughout several rooms, the floors are gritty with sand, there are unwashed dishes, an untidy bureau, dust on the furniture, crooked curtains, wilted flowers in the vase and the floors need dusting炥erhaps mopping. Which items, if left undone, will cause the least annoyance?
As a third situation, imagine that you have three months in which to reform little Willie before you move next door to a refined family whom you would like to get along well with, but who would break relations with you rather than be shocked by your boy's crude manners. Willie's bad habits are as follows: Playing with the silverware at the table, noisy eating, selecting the best things on plates passed to him, talking unnecessarily loud, swearing when vexed, coaxing annoyingly, arguing, interrupting people who are talking, telling petty lies, criticizing food at the table, grumbling incessantly, disobeying you, disrespecting older people, spitting out food at the table, cheating in games, treating his pets cruelly, and coughing in the face of those with whom he is talking. If you expect to come into intimate contact with this family at first, and you can correct only half of these habits, upon which would you concentrate?
A recent technical article answers about 500 such questions, condensed from over 20,000 opinions, and it occurred to me that the readers of this magazine might wish to read a summary of the results. The information was secured by having between 600 and 700 people rate the common annoyances according to the degree of irritation each caused. All classes of people were represented; married and single, old and young, men and women, each in about the same proportions. The average opinion, therefore, should be fairly representative of any of your friends.
The general impression one secures from the answers is that the things which annoy us most are (a) those which threaten our health or safety or peace of mind, (b) those which excite our sympathy for the suffering of either fellow man or animals, and (c) those which we think, perhaps correctly and perhaps not, will lower us in the estimation of our fellow men and women.
In the following summary, we shall group these annoyances into those which will be called (1) "obnoxious" or those which are about as annoying as to find dirt in your food, to see a child cruelly treated, to smell dirty feet or to be annoyed by flies. (2) Those which are "slightly irritating"鍟hat is about equivalent to being interrupted while talking, to see a woman with untidy or bleached hair, to smelling an onion laden breath, or to hearing a person criticise food at the table. (3) "Unpleasant" Annoyances, which are about like noticing shoes which need polishing, seeing a person suffering disease, hearing a poor joke, seeing a woman in a kimono about the house, or noticing that a woman's petticoat shows.
First let us consider annoyances connected with housework. All of the "obnoxious" ones require much less effort to eliminate them than many of those which are not particularly annoying. The worst items are: A dirty bed (not necessarily a cheap or a patched one); dirt or hair in food; a dirty wash basin or bathtub; dirty table linen; dirty or cloudy drinking glasses; dirty clothes lying about the house; hair in a comb; spit on floors or walls; cockroaches; And to be in an unventilated room, or to sleep in a room without screens so that mosquitoes and flies cause annoyance.
The "slightly irritating" household likewise contains few and easily remedied items. The worst is the "untidy" room littered with miscellaneous items themselves not annoying, and untidy home grounds rank next. Following these come unwashed dishes, dirty windows, untidy bureau, grit on the floor, crooked pictures on the wall, and stale smells which indicate lack of ventilation.
The "unpleasant" household has dusty furniture, crooked curtains, garbage in sight, wilted flowers in vases, too many pictures, excessive furniture, littered desks or tables, clashing colors, dusty or slightly dirty floors, smells of onions, cabbage or fish. Notice that practically none of the "unpleasant" items actually threaten the health, and that some of them, when given excessive attention by the housewife, may use up much more physical energy than their annoyance warrants. Excessive scrubbing, worrying about marred furniture, and continually caring for excessive furniture, which in itself is annoying, are far less important than attention to the items in the upper two groups.
In a division which we shall call sanitation and personal appearance, the "obnoxious" items are, with one exception, all of the type which threaten or suggest threat to our health. The worst is obnoxious odors, such as from animal or human excretions. Among the worst listed are odors of dirty feet, bad breath, alcoholic breath, perspiration and similar odors. Others in this group are: Blowing the nose without a handkerchief; a running nose; a dirty handkerchief; vomiting; spitting (a woman spitting in public annoys other women more than finding dirt in food or seeing a dirty wash-basin); talking with a great deal of saliva in the mouth; tobacco or food around the mouth; dirty teeth; dirty neck or ears; an intoxicated woman; a person digging wax from his ears in public; picking the nose; picking at a sore.
The exception to the health-threat items in this group is to see a hole in your stocking, and this is near the lower limits of the group, and, judging by the fact that even among women, the sight of a hole in the stocking or sox of others is only "unpleasant" or "slightly irritating," this item is greatly exaggerated in importance by the wearer.
The "slightly irritating" items of the personal sanitation and appearance group is too long to list completely. The items which annoy most have a distinctly sanitary or safety slant, such as coughing without covering the mouth, sucking the teeth, decayed teeth, dirty face, hands or fingernails, to see a man's dirty shirt, cleaning the teeth or gums with the tongue, picking the teeth in public, biting the fingernails off, noisy eating or lip smacking, belching, riding with a driver who takes chances, having a nervous person in the same car with you, etc.
A curious item is that talk about your illnesses irritates others about as much as seeing a dirty-faced person or a woman with untidy hair, whereas a person who is actually suffering from a disease excites only a sympathetic unpleasantness about equivalent in annoying power to seeing too much furniture in a room or seeing a man with a large mustache.
About midway in the "slightly irritating" group begins the personal appearance items, and from here on they gradually crowd out the sanitary items. The worst of the personal appearance "irritations" are: Excessive cosmetics, including rouge and lipstick; untidy woman's hair; lack of neatness in dress; a woman who needs a corset or brassiere but has none; a twisted or wrinkled stocking; excessive perfume; false teeth; run-down heels; hair on a woman's face; and bleached hair.
The "unpleasant" personal appearance group includes: a woman's petticoat which shows; a button conspicuously off; cheap or excessive jewelry; clashing colors; applying cosmetics in public; fussing with the hair in public; filing fingernails in public; protruding or missing front teeth; prominent gold teeth; inappropriate clothing for an occasion; a woman's skirt uneven; shoes which need shining; clothes which need pressing; rearranging or adjusting clothing in public; a woman's shoulder strap which shows; much hair under a woman's arms; dyed hair; oily skin or hair; very short skirts or a dress with a very low cut; etc. The main sanitary items are: pimples on the face; nicotine stained fingers; repeated coughing; blowing the nose; clearing the throat and very audible breathing.
Next we come to the manners or etiquette group, where we find the "obnoxious" ones mostly threaten our health or enjoyment of life. They include: coughing in another's face; spitting out food at the table; talking when the mouth is full of food; talk during a musical number or lecture; a disobedient child; disrespect for old people; a woman swearing; habitual arguing; nagging or complaining and criticizing. Also belonging to this group are: cheating in a game or examination; a religious hypocrite; crowding ahead in a public line; failing to listen while you talk; a salesman trying to force an unwanted sale; cruelty or harshness to a child or an animal.
In the "slightly irritating" etiquette group come many items which are irritating because they tend to make others resent an inference that they are not quite as good as the person causing the irritation. A few of these items are: having another speak dictatorily to you; being with a know-all or a very superior acting person; hearing the command "shut up"; waiting for a person late for an appointment; a person who acts as though he doubts you; a person expecting you to believe his petty lies; being told to hurry when you are already hurrying; "back-seat driving"; hearing unasked advice; criticism of your religion; a conversation monopolizer; interrupting while you are talking; edging you off the sidewalk; a person bragging about himself or "showing off"; coaxing you after your mind is made up; to be snubbed or laughed at; to see private whispering in a company; a person continually trying to be funny; to be with a "touchy" person or one with an "inferiority complex."
There are also in this "slightly irritating" group a number of items such as public love-making; attempts of a person of the opposite sex to kiss or pet you; suggestive dancing; being with a person of the opposite sex who is reputed to be slightly immoral; over-familiarity of an acquaintance of the opposite sex, etc., which apparently cause resentment because it indirectly infers an inferiority in the person irritated. Women especially resent all of these sex annoyances, perhaps because they are inferred to lower the reputation of women in general. A woman spitting, drinking, acting rowdy, wearing excessive cosmetics, inappropriate clothing, or showing any other irregularity causes more resentment among women than among men.
In the "slightly irritating" etiquette group also come some of the items listed in etiquette books. Among them are: Cramming the mouth; eating with the head close to the plate; eating with the knife or the fingers; eating noisily; drinking from a saucer or bowl; hearing another criticize food at the table; waiting for person's late for their meal, etc.
Most of the breaches of what is ordinarily termed etiquette, however, are annoying only to the "unpleasant" degree, if we judge by the reactions of the rather cultured people who were used to secure these averages. Seeing another prop his knife or fork on his plate, butter a whole slice of bread, playing with the table utensils, noisy celery eating, and rapid eating were only very mildly if at all annoying. Selecting the best from the plate, allowing the spoon to remain in a cup, and holding a toothpick in the mouth in public were a little more serious㻡bout equal to seeing another scratch his head or read over your shoulder. Holding a cup with both hands when drinking was about as bad as lingering after you have said "goodbye", or as listening to a poor joke.
Some of the items which irritate because they hurt our ego in this "unpleasant" group are: To hear another brag of his ancestry; to see a very aggressive or self-satisfied person; to hear unusual or affected words used for effect; to see affected demonstration between girls in public; to hear a person who is dogmatic on orthodox religious questions or who is a political radical; to see faddish dancing at a social dance; to hear obvious flattery; to have others comment on your clothes, etc.
Broadly speaking, then, the "obnoxious" items which will most quickly drive away prospective friends, are (1) things which suggest, perhaps without our conscious knowledge, that we do not respect their health, and (2) things which seem to indicate that we regard our friends as inferior to ourselves. Our offal and accumulated dirt is most obnoxious, with the possible exception of taking advantage of children and inferior animals in a brutal manner, and attempting to get ahead by cheating or other foul means. Criticizing, arguing, nagging and plain "bull-dozing" as well as disobedience to those in authority make it appear that you regard yourself as superior to others, and, therefore, are not a desirable friend unless you have some very strong counteracting good qualities.
By far the greater number of "slightly irritating" offenses are due to acts which intimate to others that you regard yourself as just a little better than they, not by cheating or outward complaint and arguing, but by little suggestive acts, such as showing that you doubt a friend's word, by monopolizing the conversation, by pretending that it is necessary for you to direct their efforts, by being sarcastic, by snubbing them, etc. Second in importance in this group is disregard for the health of others, not in the very obnoxious ways, but more through careless habits, or by personal appearances suggesting carelessness of the health of others. Also many of the breaches of good manners begin to appear in the lower margin of this group.
The most numerous items in the "unpleasant" group are those closely associated with outward personal appearance and minor imperfections of the body. These include the polishing touches, such as untidyness in clothing, hair, shoes, hands, etc. The annoying manners change from those inferring inferiority in others, as found in the "slightly irritating" group, to the table and personal manners, imperfections in grammar, and types of familiarity which under different conditions would not be offensive.

