Relief Society Conference By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary HE semi-annual conference of 'the Relief Society was held September 30 and October 1, 1931. The conference consisted of four sessions, a General Officers' Meeting, held in the Bishop's Building, at 10 a. M., on September 30, and three General Sessions for the public, held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, at 2 p. M., on Wednesday, September 30, and at 10 a. M., and 2 p.m., on Thursday, October 1. 21 members of the General Board were in attendance, and 355 officers and board members represented the stakes and missions. President Louise Y. Robison presided at all the sessions of the conference. The music was an especially fine feature. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward conducted the congregational singing. The special musical features were supplied by Pioneer, Granite, Mount Ogden, Ogden, North Weber, and Weber stakes. The ushers for the conference were provided by Cottonwood, Ensign, Liberty and Pioneer stakes. Officers' Meeting PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON Y Beloved Sisters: I wish I could express my appreciation for your splendid work, the love and loyalty you manifest, and all the Joy that you bring into the lives of the General Board, and to the women in your communities. Our hearts are made happy this morning by these beautiful flowers. Everywhere the evidence of the perseverance, energy and refinement of our Relief Society women is shown in the flowers which beautify their homes and the communities. The response to the planting of trees for which we asked last April, has been most gratifying. Some of our stakes have informed us that the Norway Maple will not grow in certain climates, then do not hold to the Norway Maple, just choose a long-lived tree, one that will be suitable and give beauty to the surroundings. In Southern Utah the evergreens, that do well in that climate, were selected. All of our hearts have gone out ia gratitude to you sisters for the marvelous work you are doing in the conservation of food and clothing for this winter. Wonderful reports come from every stake and mission that has been visited so far by representatives of the General Board. We do thank you for this, for we know it does not come without effort. We are so happy to have the Bishops with us in our stake conferences. They are our guests, and they hold the Priesthood, but in calling the roll frequently the ward president will say: president, first and second counselor, secretary, organist, etc., and the Bishop, as if he were just an after-thought. It seems to me the gracious thing for us to do is to acknowledge first the Bishop, then the president, etc. As we are going to study the Book of Mormon for another year, we call your attention to the fact that we still have the Book of Mormon RELIEF SOCETY charts. One of the Apostles said he thought this chart clarified the study of the Book of Mormon more than anything we have had. Relief Society presidents, Relief Society work comes first, looking after the well-being of the people in your stakes is your first responsibility. Financing missionaries is not our work, neither is it our responsibility to puild meeting houses. We can give support and cheer to the missionary and the loved ones at home. I visited a stake not long ago, where the stake president was in despair, because in one of her wards the women had been asked to turn over 2 large sum of money to the Bishop to build a meeting house, and the needy had been entirely neglected. I do not want to say anything against help you can render, but your first responsibility is to those who are in distress in your will read the first minutes of the Relief Society you will find the real mission of the organization, and this has not been changed since. I do not know of the Authorities who have given us the mission of building meeting houses, or sending missionaries. These activities belong to the Priesthood. We would ask you to be careful about making expensive gifts. Some of our sisters report that beautiful gifts have been sent to other places, to other stakes and other institutions. That is all very well if everyone in your stake is and you have nothing else to do with the surplus. Cooperation is very fine, but have your ward president consult your stake president before anything is sent out of the stake. The stake knows what its needs are. 1 our stakes wards that are of taking care of themselves—not that they are any better people, or CONFERENCE 633 more industrious, but circumstances favorable for them. In the Church where help is not needed in some the wards. There has been some misunderstanding about the one article that we have asked to be contributed. Many people want to know whether credit can said no. A report was made that in one of the districts some of the people were giving money instead articles of clothing to be used for the thing that would be most needed. The question was asked, "What shall we do with this money" need may not be there right this they put it in it was deity, it is an emergency call, it is an unusual free-will offering, and it must not be put in with the charity would have to disbursed from this same fund. So we do beg that every person who call supply anything at all will give one serviceable article, either new or remodelled, and see that it is wearable. When the needs of the stake are supplied the surplus sent to the General Office. If we are members of the Church Latter-day we have taken upon ourselves the responsibility and the obligations, can we go to bed at night comfortable, warm and sheltered, and feel that some of our own people have neither food nor clothing? When a contribution is made, keep a record of it in your history, but that many articles were given, but do not put a money value on it, and do not give credit to anyone for this, because some of us may not be able to make a large gift while others can. This makes a distinction, and it is something we want 634 to give freely, without any credit or recognition. We are still urging that we have the preparation meeting for the teachers. We have had reports from some of our stakes where this has been put into effect, and the increase of the activity of the teachers has been worked out beautifully. In some of our stakes we have found a little difficulty in getting women there, but I believe just feeling that the need is there would bring a better response. The use of the blue song books, which are so dear to your heart, has not been discontinued. As long as you can use the blue book, use it. A circular that has gone out from one of the book stores has been a bit misleading, and some of the stakes have written in in distress, feeling that we advise that our blue books be discarded. Far from it. In cases where you have to buy new books, get those splendid song books, "L. D. S. Hymns." 'You will find that the songs in your blue book are almost all included in this book. Do not feel that the blue book is to be discarded. Take as good care as you can of those you have. Some of our splendid stake presidents are feeling quite desperate because some of the Bishops and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ward presidents do not care to pool their wheat fund, and I would like to say to these presidents not to feel troubled about it. I know they have done the very best that is in their power. Where you cannot get your wheat fund pooled, do not despair. We carried on Relief Society work long before we had the wheat interest, and the Lord will bless us, and we will carry it on still. We are still asking you sisters to patronize home industry, as one of the best means of helping your states. I hope you will remember this. One big thing before us now is our Social Service Institute, which will begin here in this building next Monday morning. We want to express our appreciation to you splendid stake presidents. I know many of you have been troubled to know how you could raise means to send your representative. And many of the fine sisters who are leaving their homes in response to the call are making immense sacrifices to come. We want to thank the sisters who have made the effort to come in. We want the stake presidents to use them when they go back into the stake, so the great benefit from the services of these sisters can be realized. REORGANIZATIONS Stakes Date Stake Released Appointed President July, 1931 Liberty Ida D. Rees Amy P. Romney July, 1931 South Davis Effie P. Eldredge Ella Williams Missions Organization: Texas Irene N. Rowan Reorganizations: Australian Hazel B. Tingey East Central Fanny S. Smith 'Isabel C Jones Mexican 'Mrs. Rey L. Pratt Vilate R. Ivins Northern Allie Y. Pond Artemesia Romney Sept., 1931 Ensign July, 1931 Kanab Alice B. Castleton Janet M. Thompson Susie E. Robinson Bergetta A. Covington RELIEF SOCETY CONFERENCE 635 MRS. EMMARETTA G. BROWN President—Granite Stake Relief Society SINCE the first institute, when the General Board invited in the Salt Lake County presidents and their aids to an institute here, we have been having a certain amount of educational welfare work in our stake all the time. We soon realized that we were just one little part of the welfare work, as an auxiliary to the Priesthood, and we felt that our brethren should understand as we understood, and so we asked the General Board if we might have a class conducted at night, so that our brethren could be present, and at our suggestion they sent us Sister Amy W. Evans of the General Board. Our Stake President was greatly interested. He said that all case work should be done as far as possible within the ward, consulting with our newly appointed stake aid; that wherever it was possible to use her, he would like our ward presidents to use her in discussing the cases, Also he was very anxious that the cards be made out as soon as possible, and that a duplicate be placed with the stake aid. He suggested that the charity funds be pooled, that is the fast donation and the Relief. Society charity fund: that the fast donation be used first, and wherever possible that the Relief Society charity fund be kept as a reserve fund for emergency use. Our employment committees were to function only in obtaining work for those who needed it amongst their own membership; that all families that they know are in need, they were to report to the Bishop, who in turn would report to the ward president. He explained to our Bishops that the ward president was still responsible for the charity work of the Church, and that she -was the one whom the Bishop consulted with: that the ward social service aid was her assistant to help her in the work which she was called to do. He also said that this was true of the stake organization, and we have endeavored, with our stake aid and myself, to consult on every case that has come under our notice within the stake. A monthly report has been sent by the ward aid to the stake aid, and a discussion class, (without mentioning any names, of course everything is held as sacred and confidential as can be) is carried on at our Union Meeting, and our aid is supposed to do all in her power to keep a high standard of the work throughout the stake. Further help is needed we have to contact, in Salt Lake County, with our different agencies. It was suggested that we make that contact, through our Welfare Department of the General Board. I have stressed so many times our monthly meeting between ward president and bishop. We leave it to the pleasure of our ward presidents, whether they ask their social service aid to come into this meeting. A written report of the use of the money, the finances used in case work, is taken in a monthly report to these meetings for the Bishop. I believe one of the outcomes of this cooperative plan, by meeting in these little groups, our bishops, our presidents, our ward aids, feel perfectly free to ask questions, to talk about problems and difficulties, and we found that about 50% of the fast donation was being used for maintenance. Again we realized, as a stake presidency, that it was up to our stake president to tell the bishops what they should do. We cannot expect to tell them ourselves, they do not take it from us women, 636 I know our brethren, if we put it before them the right way, can be converted if they need be, for we have converted a number of bishops, ops. Get our ward presidents first to get our view point, that they can put it over to our bishops, so that they can understand it. COUNSELOR AMY I HAVE been asked to say a few words this morning about the Relief Society histories, and to congratulate you upon the work you have done up to date. In 1916 the General Board requested all the wards in the Church to write a brief history of the ward from the beginning to 1916, and place it in the Relief Society record book in a space set aside for this work. It was then requested that each year following, the current history be recorded yearly in the proper allotted space. We find that this has not been done in all cases, and we are requesting that the histories be written up to date by the end of this year. We also asked, when the new record book was adopted, that the stake history, from the time of the organization of the stake, be written up to date in the history section of the stake book. This has also been neglected in some instances. These histories are invaluable, and should all be completed by the end of the year. In some cases rather elaborate and lengthy histories have been written. These should be abbreviated for the books, and the original carefully preserved and kept with the record books. As you have all learned, a Relief Society handbook has been issued by the General Board. It is written in three sections: (1) Historical Account of the Relief Society; (2) Sketches of the General Presidents; (3) Organization, Procedure and Instructions. This book will be found invaluable to stake and ward officers and to members, as it will answer practically all questions arising RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 4 BROWN LYMAN from time to time about your work. It has a table of contents following the general arrangement of the book, and an extensive alphabetically arranged index in the back, for ready and quick reference. The General Board recommends that all stake and ward officers procure this book, and encourage the members to do the same. The price is, cloth bound 85 cents, paper bound 60 cents. It may be obtained at the office of the General Secretary. The Governor of Utah has appointed a committee of 100 to make recommendations regarding unemployment, and in other states and in Canada steps are being taken to improve conditions. I suggest that Relief Society women keep posted on this subject by reading newspaper and magazine articles, and be ready, in your localities, to assist in solving the problems that are arising as a result of the depression. I compliment the women upon their activity in the conservation of foods for winter use. Utah stake recently canned over 6,000 quarts of peaches, which was accomplished by their taking over a canning factory for the purpose. The opening of the Utah State Training School for the Feeble Minded at American Fork, Utah, will take place on October 5, 1931. Inasmuch as Relief Society women helped to sponsor the establishment of the school, they will be glad to know that a superintendent was appointed in July, and has been on the grounds constantly since that time, supervising the preparation of RELIEF SOCETY CONFERENCE the new buildings and making plans for the opening of the school. The equipment has been installed, and three teachers employed, in addition to other workers. It will be impossible to receive all children for whom application is made. Other buildings must be erected before all those desiring admission may enter. The school is primarily a training school for trainable children, and 637 such children will probably receive preference in the beginning. As other types of buildings are erected, it will be possible to accommodate a larger variety of types of children. When children from various localities cannot be accepted at this time, Relief Society women will understand why, and can help explain the reason to others. COUNSELOR JULIA A. CHILD THE September Magazine in the "Notes to the Field," has a whole column devoted to a campaign for the 'Magazine. We would suggest to you officers to select your Magazine Agents with a very great deal of care. Select persons whom you know will be interested. Let them become thoroughly familiar with the Magazine _ before they go out. Officers, class leaders and members should be subscribers, as it is quite impossible for the class leaders or the officers to conduct the work well if they are not constant readers of this Magazine, and it certainly is not possible for the members to carry on an intelligent discussion of the lesson work when they come to the meetings, if they have not been able to read the lesson before they get there, and they cannot read it unless they have a Magazine. Sometimes it is passed around, but that is not so satisfactory as when each member has a Magazine. We hope that the officers will make an effort to increase the subscriptions this year. Read the "Notes to the Field." In a previous number of the Magazine, there was a report from one of the stakes as to how they had increased their membership. There are many wonderful suggestions you can get to help you out. We trust that all officers and members will be loyal to our Magazine, and try to increase the subscriptions to that point where there is one in every home. MRS. ROMANIA HYDE WOOLLEY MY work in the Relief Society is the result of a covenant which I made with the Lord, and I feel that it is proper that I should tell you of this, because the interest I took in the quilts is the result of this work. For about three years I went through a terrible nervous breakdown, and was isolated from my family and friends. In distress of mind and body, I plead with the Lord that if He would give me my health and strength again, I would get into some work where I could help, and I am a witness to you this day, being able to stand here before you, that He has answered my prayers with great blessings upon my head. The first thing I turned to was the Relief Society. I was the only white member there, and the services were conducted in Hawaiian. 638 It was rather discouraging, but I knew what I had promised the Lord. Out of respect and courtesy to me, one of these women oftentimes would stop and translate for me as the meeting proceeded. To give you an idea of how these quilts are made, I may say that before 1820 the Hawaiian knew nothing of fabric or cotton goods, and it was not until the New England mission came to the Islands that they learned how to sew. The natives were interested particularly in the lessons that the missionaries brought, and being a people loving nature and art, they took from their plant life, and the objects around them, the motifs for designs. All the designs that you see here* are taken from nature and things that are near them. My reward has been great. At first it was rather difficult to mix with the Hawaiian people, not knowing their language, but I have been blessed in being with them. They are so full of humility and sincerity that it is a great inspiration to be around them. I thought I knew how to pray, but I did not know what praying was until I worked among them. The Lord has blessed them with burning testimonies. One woman had a husband who was not a member of the Church. She said, "For 18 years I have prayed for him." Another sister said she had prayed for 40 years. She said, "I still pray. Sometimes it is very hard. My husband is a poor man; I have 11 children, and he only makes $3.00 a day. We all help each other." She went on and said, "I am still going to keep praying." One day I had an early telephone call. The sister was weeping, and said, "You cannot know Mrs. Wooley had many beautiful quilts on display. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE what I know. Today the Lord has answered my prayers, and last night my husband he got baptized, now we are one in the Church." Sisters do not get discouraged if you think the Lord does not answer your prayers. I did not realize to the full extent what the beauty of the Book of Mormon was until I heard this story. One Relief Society day I saw a woman sitting beside me was reading her Book of Mormon. She said, "I like this book better than anything I have in the world. I only had three grades in school, and I cannot read the scriptures, they are too difficult, but the Book of Mormon is so plain I can understand it."
We have all read the story of Jesus cleansing the leper. It has been a discussion through the ages of whether that was actually done, whether it could be done and it is not certain in the minds of many of our Latter-day Saints. I can testify that I have lived to hear from a woman that sweet story of old, and as I heard the sister singing this morning, it brought tears to my eyes, realizing that that sweet story of old has been told in reality 2,000 years after, right in the midst of our people.
At the last meeting I attended before coming away, a young woman came and asked to speak. She said that she found herself with leprosy. If the Federal Health Authorities of the Islands find anyone with leprosy they are immediately banished to what is a living death. She had two children. Her husband would bring her food, and the things that she needed, and it did not seem necessary for her to go out. A call came to her husband, transferring him to San Francisco, and she knew then that she would be found out, and be separated from him for life.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
She said, "I did not know what to do. My mother, who was a Latter-day Saint had taught me to pray, and I knew that great blessings came to our people. I prayed and fasted for one week, without a bit of food passing my lips, and when in the act of prayer, asking the Lord to cleanse my body from leprosy, a light came upon me and it burned as a fire. It started from the crown of my head and left through my toes. When I got up from prayer, I looked at my hands and they were white."
I am grateful that I have lived to hear from the lips of a sister such faith and blessings of God.
General Session Assembly Hall
MRS. AGNES PEARCE President—Montpelier Stake Relief Society
"PURE religion and undefiled before God and the Father," is our aim in Relief Society work. We are trying to get all the women of our stake to belong to our Society, come to our meetings, take part in the lessons. We feel the lessons are an inspiration to all who will study them.
We encouraged the wards to hold their outings, picnics and bazaars during the Summer vacation, also to visit the homebound; to make the new articles for the Relief Society, that they may have something on hand in case of an emergency.
MRS. ELIZABETH C. WILLIAMS President—Salt Lake Stake Relief Society
OUR slogan last year was "Greater efficiency in Relief Society work through a keener interest and systematic study of charity and lesson work." We are enlarging upon this aim for this year, and putting into it "more extensive thought and study."
We have four fundamental requisites that we think are necessary for us to put over our work in an intelligent manner: (1) dependability; loyalty, love of work and devotion to duty; (2) a definite plan or program of work for each year, with a project or aim; (3) organization of work, division of responsibility; (4) execution, or putting into action the accepted plan.
We think there are three rules in observing these four outstanding requisites, and they are: (1) I see my own job. We feel, as individuals, that if we can see the job to which we are assigned, and make good, we will have accomplished one big effort; (2) that I see the organization doing as best it can, and be cooperative with it; (3) that I see the other person, or the other individual in her job, and that I lend her all the encouragement and helpfulness possible.
Our wards now are saving food for the coming winter. They are also doing a lot of work in remodeling clothing, so that no child shall be embarrassed by going to school in ragged clothing, or have to stay out of school because of lack of clothing. We have asked our ward presidents to give one full day each month, aside from the Work and Business Meeting, to remodel clothing. We have asked every woman. Regardless of her affiliation with the Relief Society, to contribute one quart of fruit to her ward president.
Through our educational program we have been able to increase our interest in Relief Society work. We have excellent stake supervisors. They are so enthusiastic and imbued with our lesson work that all of them have taken courses in their line of work at the University of Utah or the Civic Center. Each year we have a definite project. We feel that the Relief Society offers great opportunity for service.
It gives us a better understanding of the value and purpose of life, and develops a greater love and sympathy for humanity. We are going through a financial crisis, and we have a tremendous task before us, and because of this condition there are great possibilities ahead for service, and there are no limitations to our development if we apply ourselves, for the Relief Society work is as broad as eternity and as enduring as love.
"When we work for those around us, For ourselves we gain a prize. Ladders that we build for others, Are the ones by which we rise."
MRS. MAUD D. CHRISTENSEN President—Alpine Stake Relief Society
THREE years ago Alpine stake was divided into three, leaving us only six wards. The love and unity that exists between the three stakes, the tender ties and sisterly interest, we hope will never change.
Our purpose is to convince our young women that Relief Society is the finest organization with which they can be affiliated. We need their talents, their sweet voices, and they need Relief Society.
We are especially pleased with our health conference, which functions once a month in connection with the Utah County Health Unit, six of our women assisting. An average of forty children are examined each month. Mothers are given instructions on diet, clothing and physical defects, and advised by competent doctors and nurses of any conditions requiring medical or surgical attention. In May of this year 809% of the homes were visited to interest young mothers. At the next conference 104 children were examined; a total of 555 during the year.
Our local doctors and dentists have been very considerate in taking care of charity cases at a minimum charge, or assisting at the conference in the absence of the county physician. Within the past two months 24 children have had tonsils removed, the expense being assumed by Relief Societies of the wards and stake. Several maternity cases, eye corrections and dental work have also been taken care of.
During the past year we have stressed the contribution of used clothing. Many articles were sent in already cleaned, pressed and repaired. Others were given to the organization for remodeling and distribution. The Relief Society has become the social center for the women of the ward.
In August the Stake Presidency, Bishops and Relief Society heads met to formulate plans for taking care of the unemployed of our community. A survey has been made to determine who might need assistance during the winter, and a close check up on conditions will follow. The Mayor and civic organizations are cooperating, and definite plans for material relief are being put into operation.
MRS. WINNIFRED B. DAYNES President—Grant Stake Relief Society
WE are trying in the best possible way to carry out all of the instructions given us by the General Board, and cooperate with the Priesthood in our stake in everything. Our work is so divided that it does not become burdensome to any one person, but each stake officer is responsible for some part of the work, in this way contributing to the success of the whole.
Our attendance is greatly increased through the young mothers' group. Some of our aims for this year are to have: better preparation of lessons; better attendance; better spirit of cooperation; better preparedness for the needy; to be mentally and physically fit to assume the responsibilities to which we are called; to increase our spirituality; to be 100% efficient; to have 100% teaching, in order to check closely on every family in our wards, and avoid any unnecessary suffering this winter; to have one monthly officers' meeting, with every officer present, and if possible to have our Bishops meet with us.
Perhaps one of the outstanding features in our Stake Relief Society work is the way our work and business division is operated. We feature about five special groups on account of the difference in ages, financial condition, and general interests of the members who attend. We have the quilting group, rug group, art group, sewing group, and young mother's group. This year we hired a professional teacher of sewing for the sewing group, who each month gave the supervisors a lesson to take back to their wards. We realize that most of our sisters have done sewing, but the finishing which makes the difference between really fine work and the unsatisfactory things we so often see, is due to the fact that many of our sisters have never had an opportunity for instruction, and we desire that the work in our stake shall be of the finest quality.
Our young mother's group helps the young mother to know how to live with her children; to supply a special need for the mother; to give relief to the over-burdened mother by helping her solve her greatest problem, managing her children in a scientific and successful way; to understand and practice right principles in the home.
Each year we have put over some special activity. On our anniversary day, last March 17 and 18, and as a climax to our year's study of the Book of Mormon, we felt it quite fitting to present the pageant, "Voices from the Dust," written by Professor Eastmond of Provo. Our characters were chosen from all the 14 wards of our stake, some of the High Councilmen, Bishops and Ward Presidents taking part. Our beautiful Relief Society chorus and 60 children added to its success. Five thousand people attended.
We entertained the old people at the County Infirmary once a month, and put a little sunshine into their lives. We have assisted in sending malnourished children on vacations during the summer.
MRS. MARGARET W. MANNING President—Bear River Stake Relief Society
OUR Relief Societies have given a portion of their welfare money, have pooled it, to be used by the stake aid and our workers doing the welfare work. In May we held clinics in all of the wards in our stake, and during these clinics there were over 298 pre-school children who were examined, also some mothers, and they were given medical attention, and also pamphlets that would be helpful to them.
In our stake we have done a great deal along the lines of conserving fruit. Our Bishops cooperated with the County Commissioner, who procured the fruit from the growers.
MRS. ROSANNAH C. IRVINE Member of the General Board of Relief Society
OUR Church is a Church of law and order. It was organized by revelation and authority, to bring salvation to the nations of the world. It functions in three ways—through the Priesthood, through the Relief Society and through the other auxiliary organizations.
By the Priesthood the ordinances of the Gospel are administered, the glad message is carried to the world and the affairs of the Church are governed and directed. The auxiliary organizations take care of the youth of the Church; they teach and they train and they prepare them for their future responsibilities as leaders in our Church and in our communities.
The work of the Relief Society is different from either of these. It is not our function to govern and direct the affairs of the Church. It is not our mission to carry the message of salvation to the nations of the world. We were organized for a special purpose and that is as the name implies, to bring relief.
When the Prophet organized the Relief Society, he laid upon the sisters a great many duties, the chief one of which was to look after the welfare of the families in the Church, to care for the poor. Soon after the organization, Sister Orson Hyde remarked, "How are we to look after the poor, if we do not know where the poor are?" It was this remark that inspired the president, Emma Smith, with the idea of appointing the sisters to go out in the Church, and visit the families in the Church, and find out the conditions existing there. At this time these women were called "visiting sisters." Later on they became "visiting teachers," as they are now called.
The mission of the visiting teacher is to visit monthly every L. D. S. Family, to find out the conditions in every household, and every family in her district; to carry peace and good cheer to everybody whom she meets, particularly to the families that she visits; to make accurate and confidential reports to her ward president.
It is the office of the visiting teacher to search out affliction. This should never be done in the spirit of meddlesome curiosity. She goes only in the spirit of helpfulness. She has the pattern the great Jesus taught by living a perfect life, by encouraging the widow. The visiting teacher has adopted His code as her guide.
The visiting teacher might be likened to a gardener who has a precious garden. Prune the trees and shrubs, to nourish the delicate plants, and rid the garden of obstructive and destructive weeds, so that the plants may grow. A good gardener loves his work; he is never too tired to go on until the work that he is interested in is finished. He forgets his aching back, his weary limbs, his rough and grimy hands, in the interest of some particular thing he is trying to do. He is compensated for his toil and physical efforts by the lovely result of his garden.
We never know, when working with human beings, how much we may be able to develop them, and help them on the upward path by a kind word and a helpful suggestion.
The work of the visiting teacher, unlike that of the trained social worker, does not require special training, but we should try to cultivate many of the characteristics of the social welfare worker—an open mind, a sympathetic understanding, a kindly and yet impersonal attitude toward the people, the ability to arouse in others a cheerful, helpful spirit, and an ambition to go on.
To make the task of the visiting teacher easier and more effective, the General Board has, for a number of years, mapped out a plan of work. We publish in the Magazine every month an article, giving a topic and text for the visiting teacher to follow. We should be very glad indeed to know that these are followed and studied and used when visits are made in the districts. We feel that they are beneficial, not only to the ones who are visited, but to the visiting teacher herself. If they are studied and used they will be of great benefit everywhere.
During the war a new phrase came into existence—"Carry On." We think the mission of the visiting teacher is to "Carry On." To her is entrusted a glorious work, a work unique and different from anyone else in the entire Church; to do it well she must emulate the life of the Savior; He must be her constant guide and inspiration; she must strive to follow in His footsteps; she must learn that He is the Way, the Truth and the Light. We can only obtain perfection by following in His footsteps.
MRS. ELIZA W. TADJE Former President—Swiss-German Mission Relief Societies
THERE are fifty Relief Societies in the Swiss-German Mission. At the present time, we have such wonderful leaders that the Relief Society is quite able to take care of its own funds, providing for the poor, caring for the sick, and doing just as you are doing in the wards and stakes of Zion.
It has been my privilege, during the three and one-half years I have spent in the Swiss-German mission to visit and attend 89 conferences. The time has come when mission presidents' wives no longer go into the mission fields and go out of the mission field without leaving records. This record book contains a general report of all our work, the branch instructions, branch reports, recommendations, projects, and a list of all the officers of the organization. We have in this last year started a Relief Society fund, which will help our district supervisors in financing their train fare and in helping them bring our organization up to the standard it is in the stakes and wards.
MRS. FANNY S. SMITH Former President—East Central States Mission Relief Societies
THE work of the Relief Society in the mission field differs greatly from the work here. Sometimes it is carried on with much difficulty, and under trying conditions, yet all the sisters in the mission field have in their mind, to learn more of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to make themselves better qualified for the great responsibility of life.
The lesson work is very much appreciated, and the outlines have been very beautiful. Those of you who have been in the mission field know how dearly the saints love the Book of Mormon. The Work and Business meeting gives an opportunity that is much needed to make themselves acquainted with their neighbors and their friends. One of our organizations has been so active in their welfare work that the newspaper publishes a full report of their activities.
Last, but not least in importance by any means, is social welfare and character development. The lessons are most beautiful. They have been a means of developing the women of the South.
The South is a beautiful country; the green hills, the oak trees, the elm and nut trees make a very beautiful setting for the cottages that are scattered among the hills. These people are loyal to their religion. They are a hospitable people, they love us with all their hearts; and everything they own is at the disposal of the missionaries. Their goodwill is for our success, and for the advancement of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
The South has many interesting points to see; one is inspired to noble thoughts when visiting the birth place of Abraham Lincoln, in standing by the stream where he drank. One is thrilled in visiting "The Old Kentucky Home." When you talk to Old Black Joe, you are really touched with emotion as he tells of the stories of long ago, when his father was a slave.
Thursday Morning—Assembly Hall
MRS. HAZEL B. TINGEY Former President, Australian Mission Relief Societies
THIS is an opportunity I have this morning in representing the Australian Mission Relief Society workers. Though our sisters in Australia are separated from us by thousands of miles of land and water, at this moment their hearts and their thoughts are near and dear unto us.
We have societies organized in all of our districts. Australia covers an area as great in extent as is the United States; traveling from Sydney, our Eastern point, across the Western point, is a distance of over 3,060 miles, so you see the districts are separated from one another in that field.
We are taking up the work as outlined in the Magazine as nearly as we can follow it. Our theology work is wonderful. Our Work and Business Meeting perhaps is not quite as successfully handled as you here at home would handle it, because so many of our sisters are engaged in making a livelihood for their families, and we have not a great deal of time to spend along that line, although we are taking it up, doing our sewing, making over clothing for those who need it, making quilts, etc.
The literary work is a bit of a problem as outlined in the Magazine for us, because our sisters feel that if they study authors, poets, writers or musicians, they would like to study those of their own nationality, and there we differ just a trifle from the Magazine lessons, seeking out our own writers and authors—British.
The social work is needed, I fear, more than anything else; perhaps not more than theology, but in the world today they need to sense that beautiful ideal of life that the "Mormon" people have. We are doing visiting teaching along with our Priesthood members.
MRS. ALLIE W. POND Former President—Northern States Mission Relief Societies
WHAT I feel to be the outstanding achievements of Relief Society in the Northern States Mission during the past three years, was the organization of fourteen new Societies, and during that time not one disorganized, all faithfully working, and Sister Romney informs me they all held fine conferences on Sept. 27.
Their cooperative spirit was shown in putting over the things that were required of them, for bazaars, dinners and parties, also many successful plays, which helped in the building of the five new chapels; in sending out wonderful baskets of food to the poor for Thanksgiving and Christmas. The call made for clothing, both old and new, was responded to most wonderfully. In the Logan Square Branch there was so much clothing donated that after all were taken care of in our branch, a car load was sent out to the hospital for incurables. Clothing from three other small branches was sent in, and we sent some six boxes to a little branch where every man was out of work. These sisters sewed faithfully, and were able to provide warm clothing for children going to school. One sister sent in for a baby layette. I asked the president of another branch to send the little layette she had to this sister, whose husband was out of work. I feel it a great achievement to have had that splendid cooperation among the Relief Societies.
We have about 450 active members. We have 8 Relief Societies in the State of Illinois; 4 in Wisconsin; 3 in each of the States of Ohio, Michigan, Indiana; and 1 in Iowa. Our social work went over big in most of our branches.
General Session Thursday Afternoon—Assembly Hall
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
I AM deeply grateful to our Heavenly Father for His spirit that has been here with us. There are no better people in the world than our Relief Society women, and now is the time for us to have added faith and to do extra work.
Even here in Zion, among our own people, we leave largely to our Heavenly Father the care of our brothers and sisters who are just over an imaginary line. We must have order, we must have boundaries, to keep our work systematic and prevent confusion, but I am sure no woman here could feel that conditions are ideal because she lives in a favored part of the country; because her land was watered when it was needed, and the sun shone down warm enough to produce fine crops; that she has an abundance in her storehouse, with clothing to wear; if she knows there are brothers and sisters not far from here who are without the comforts of life.
We had word come to us from a reliable source, that there was one group of our saints who had not bread or clothing. Last spring we made a special call on the Relief Society sisters, and we had hoped it would go beyond Relief Society—we had hoped it would go to every person in the Church, and people who are not of our faith who are in our midst. We had hoped that everyone would donate one article of clothing, or household equipment. That it should be in good repair, not something that we could not use, but a usable article, or a new article. We felt that the women of the Relief Society would deprive themselves of some little luxury, something that they could do without, in order to give this.
I believe there has been some misunderstanding, and that the Relief Societies have felt that it was just for their charity fund. We know that for the last 90 years, since the Relief Society was organized, that you have taken care of those in need, but these are unusual times. Last spring we felt that this was going to be a hard winter, and we had hoped that the brothers and sisters who were going along quite smoothly would give, not as it used to be said in war time "to give until it hurts," but to give until you receive the blessing for giving. I do not believe any of us would go cold or hungry in sharing with those who are in need, and so we have asked that each person give this article; that it be given to the ward president; that no credit be placed upon it, because it is a freewill offering, to bless those of our loved ones who are in need. It may be just across the line from my ward, it may be just across the line from my state, but what is the difference if suffering is relieved.
Now it was not intended that they should be used just to take care of the usual needs in your wards. It is for the unusual conditions. We had a woman come into our office about six weeks ago, and she was telling of conditions in her ward. She said, "Sister Robison, I go out to confine mothers where there is not a sheet or pillow slip in the house. We have not a white thing around." Now have you not something that you would love to give—not that would be a hardship on you, and you would feel that you were making a sacrifice. It is not because of our great wisdom that the sun shines just right on our crops, or that the rain falls just right, it is the blessing of our Heavenly Father, and gives us an opportunity to show what we would do when the Lord showers His blessings down upon us.
I hope that when you go to your home you will find something, not something that there is no use in having, that you can never wear, but something that if you could visualize a woman going through the experience of motherhood, you would feel, "I can gladly donate this—I can gladly give a nightdress, or sheet or pillow slip, or some warm clothing, or my child's sweater," anything that can be used in a family. Let us not let these dear people's prayers go up to our Heavenly Father against us, because we are in a land of plenty.
I beg of you sisters to have greater faith to call upon the elders, and have faith in their administration. We need everything that can strengthen our faith. We need faith in our homes. Mothers must have faith to implant fine principles in the hearts of their children. I pray our Father in Heaven to bless you women who are doing such a splendid work. I know your bodies are often weary, and I know you work just to the limit in taking care of those in your wards, but you remember the promise that was made to you, that your yoke would be easy, and I believe all of you could rise up and testify that it is made light and easy, and the Lord does not forget us.
GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND
THERE has been a marvelous spirit throughout this conference; something that tells us that even while we are in life, there is something more important than life itself, and the feeling that has been with us has been one of optimism, because we are a people of faith, and believe in the destiny of our people, and the very important work which is theirs to do.
George Washington wrote, in answer to a letter from Lafayette congratulating Washington upon his election to the Presidency of the United States: "I shall assume the task with the most unfeigned reluctance, and with a real diffidence. I think I see a path as clear and as direct as a ray of light, which leads to the attainment of permanent felicity to the commonwealth. Nothing but harmony, honesty, industry and frugality is necessary to make us a great and happy people, if my countrymen will but cooperate in establishing those four great essential pillars of public felicity."
By harmony was meant the sacrifice of personal privilege and personal advantage for the good of the whole. We must encourage individual initiative by the spirit of cooperation rather than competition. We must be willing to share our privileges with others, and to regard as our own the welfare of the whole. In such a plan of harmony there would be the spirit of love for humanity, and interest in the wellbeing of all.
In the matter of industry, I believe no other country has equalled our own in this development, placing us as we are, perhaps, the foremost and most powerful of nations, but perhaps a lot of the trouble we are having today is that in our industry we must not have taken, as we should have done, enough account of the human interest. It may be one of the great lessons we must learn in our present crisis.
The spirit of frugality, such as Washington meant, has been the keynote of instructions that has been given, and the soul of many reports we have had from all parts of our organization. That fine frugality such as our people know so well how to practice may, perhaps, be the means of tiding us through the troublesome times that are at our doors.
If public officials were honest in the discharge of their duties, much of the lawlessness of today would disappear from our communities. Honesty is the basis upon which our whole national structure must be built if it is to endure, and it is one of the essential principles we have always had in our Gospel.
COUNSELOR JULIA A. CHILD
WE have heard a great deal during this conference about the other division of our work, the charity, and the looking after those in need. That is a big part of our work, I realize, but there is also the other side, that which considers the edification and the building up of the members, the educational work which has been in vogue for a long time.
Educators themselves are looking at this subject a little differently than they did in years past. One of the significant changes in attitude toward education is that which impels us to consider it as a continuous process during life. There was a time when we thought that education was just a preparation for adulthood, and when we grew up there was very little work outlined for us. Today this has all been changed, and there are two important factors that are responsible for this.
First, there is a new valuation placed upon education which associates learning more closely with our intelligence and our physical fitness; with our ability to do, and with our personality. Education is not so dependent upon facts we learn, nor upon principles from books and teachers. The sort of education of which I speak comes more from experience, both in school and out of school, and continues just as long as we live and apply ourselves.
The second new and important factor is the discovery that we do not grow too old to learn, and that ability to learn increases with age and experience far beyond the dead line set in former days. This point of view is what concerns us as members of this great Relief Society. Women who are ripe in experience, and have reached middle age, may go on with profit studying and improving themselves.
The Relief Society, as an organization, is designed primarily to prevent suffering, and to help those who need help, but we must remember that this great organization is interested in the moral and spiritual welfare of all its members, and the citizenry in general. It has, therefore, provided a program of adult education for its membership.
It is very gratifying for us to receive word from all over the Church as to how helpful these outlined courses of study are to the members. A great deal of time is spent in preparing this work. Committees are at work all the time trying to find out what is the most suitable for the lessons. After they are prepared, they are read and censored by committees, and every precaution is taken that nothing will be sent out but that which will be of the most benefit to the workers.
The General Board feels that inasmuch as these outlines are sent out to the whole Church, to all of our associations, that we would like you, as officers and teachers and members to follow the outlines just as nearly as possible, so that there will be harmony throughout our great organization. Of course you have to adapt them a little to your classes, but our desire is to have the courses followed as closely as possible. We feel there is strength in the fact that throughout the world all the women are studying the same work.
Brother Brimhall, a year or so ago, spoke on loyalty. He said, "Be loyal to the lesson outline. Condense it, expand it, but don't discard it. Loyalty to outline is loyalty to the organization that furnishes it. Study the outline with a view to making it sparkle."
I would like to add that same thing. Study it and teach it to your class, you class teachers, but do not discard it. The teachers' topic is now included in our course of study, and it is very necessary that it be studied, that the sisters may go in the homes and carry the message that is well prepared, and give it in an intelligent manner.
The committees are now at work on our next year's course of study, and we hope when we meet in April we will be able to tell you what is going to be given for next year's work. We think it is a wonderful opportunity for improvement, and I hope you will take it, and use it as you would an extension course.
Basil King says, "He who would go on living and not begin to die, must be willing to be taught, reaping the harvest of both youth and age."
COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
WE are constantly being reminded by the General Authorities of the Church that the chief mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to carry the gospel message to the people of the world—to preach the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.
There are a number of auxiliary organizations in the church—aids and helps to the church proper, and the question naturally arises—What are these auxiliary organizations contributing to this great major project of the Church? And to us particularly, the question arises—What is the Relief Society contributing? And what are the individual members contributing to this great major project of the Church? Are they doing all they can to further this vital and important work?
A brief review of the work of the Relief Society will show, I believe, that it is making some rich contributions to the cause. It is doing this, first, by helping, as an organization to spread the Gospel; secondly, by educating and training its members within the organization in religious and spiritual matters, and by affording opportunity for them to participate in practical religious activities; thirdly, by contributions to the cause by individual members.
The Relief Society as an organization is helping to spread the Gospel at home and abroad, both directly and indirectly, by actually presenting the Gospel to investigators and prospective investigators; and indirectly by unconsciously carrying on its regular every day work, which is attractive to everybody. The Relief Society is a great human organization, which is known and is operating both nationally and internationally. Its work is generally interesting—to students, to sociologists, to philosophers, to lay people. Its work is especially interesting today, for there has never been a time in the history of the world before when human welfare work has received so much attention. The science of human relations and social justice has come into its own.
In the second place, the Relief Society gives its own members extensive opportunity for studying the Gospel, and also for practical religious demonstration through works. The welfare work is a demonstration of practical religion, and is in keeping with the teachings of the scripture.
Let us consider next what Relief Society women, as individuals, are doing and may do in the Gospel cause. Relief Society women, and L. D. S. Women generally are bearing and bringing up the children, who form the great body of missionaries who carry the Gospel to the world. This is a great responsibility, and the better this work is done, the better the results. Every woman thrills with the thought of producing a son or a daughter who will carry the Gospel message.
One of the most effective things Relief Society women, and all L. D. S. Women can do as individuals, is to live the Gospel in its entirety. It is a fine thing to teach the Gospel, and preach the Gospel, but it is better to live the Gospel, and this is much harder to do. Example is always better than precept. I cannot think of a finer contribution Relief Society women can make to the Church than to conform in every particular to Church standards. If we will do this we will each be making one of the greatest possible individual contributions to the Church.
BISHOP DAVID A. SMITH
I AM here to bring greetings from the Presiding Bishopric, and to say that we know this phase of Church work is in good hands. We meet with your officers each week, go over matters that pertain to the work of the Relief Society, and harmonize this work between the Bishops of the wards, officers of the stakes, and the Relief Society sisters. I hope that you are having no trouble in your wards to meet with your Bishoprics and discuss the affairs of the ward as they come up for consideration.
We feel that the Relief Society organization of the Church is one of the most important we have. We could not get along without you, and this year in particular you are going to have a real burden, at least it may appear to be. Yet there is no such thing as a burden for Relief Society sisters, for you have been trained and the spirit which guides you in the work which you do, and helps you to perform the labors required of you, makes them not a burden, but a service rendered.
The Lord bless you my sisters in this great work in which you are engaged, this important work. May He shower His blessings upon you and strengthen and help you is my prayer, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
The addresses of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and of Mr. Newell W. Edson will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.

