Hawaiian Quilt Making By Romania Hyde Woolley
THE art of Hawaiian quilt making as they have it today, dates back to the arrival of the Protestant New England Missionaries in the Hawaiian Islands in 1820, for, it was the women missionaries who taught the natives to make quilts after the mode of the colonial dames. They had brought their own quilts which served as a pattern.
However, the Hawaiians were not satisfied with the occidental's designs, and at an early stage began developing their own patterns, which have become unique. Native-like, their inspiration came from their immediate surroundings, Mother Nature, taking fruits, flowers and plant life in general for their designs, and in a primitive way they began drawing their patterns in diminutive size, gradually enlarging them to one-quarter of the size of the entire kapa, or quilt. The pattern is cut, and pinned onto the cotton background, the background material being folded eight times. With patience and strength the pattern is cut, and when finished the entire pattern is in one piece, which distinguishes the Hawaiian pattern from all others.
The background is cut to the desired size—usually very large—for, until lately, the entire family slept under one cover. This is placed on the floor and stretched—being held in place by stones on the four sides. The pattern is then laid, pinned, and basted, the natives crawling over the design which is a constant pricking to their knees and hands. The kapa is taken up, the design whipped in—or over-cast. Some of the women cross-stitch the design on, which means more labor and time.
Before the quilting, the background is washed and ironed. The old quilting frames are used, but the legs of the frames are cut off which enables the natives to squat on the floor to do their work. Both cotton and wool are used for the padding. The back and top of the kapa are basted together, and placed on the quilting frames. The design is usually followed in the quilting, and the quilting is done one-quarter of an inch apart. The average Hawaiian quilter never uses a pencil to mark out her quilted lines—but relies on the eye for accuracy.
I have seen expert workers cut, pin, and baste a large kapa in one day, and over-cast the design in one week. The quilting, when the design is followed, can be accomplished in two to three weeks' time constant laboring.
The quilt shown on page 625 is the Star of Bethlehem design, the quilting being done by a woman 80 years of age. The one on page 626 is only basted. It is the vanilla vine and blossom.
Bright colors are usually selected for the design, with white for the background. Red and white, blue and white, and red and yellow are the favorite Hawaiian combinations.
STAR OF BETHLEHEM DESIGN
VANILLA VINE AND BLOSSOM DESIGN

