[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Clarissa S. Williams]

Patriotic Department. Clarissa Smith Williams. Our Wheat. The Relief Society has turned over to the United States government over two hundred thousand bushels of wheat. Grain that was gleaned in aprons, bought with the difficult dimes and nickels of the faithful sisters, stored in their own or hired granaries for nearly half a century against a time of famine. The mission of "saving grain" was committed to the women of the Relief Society, through our honored President Emmeline B. Wells, in September, 1875, by President Brigham Young. She has lived to see the prophecy and mission fulfilled in a most remarkable degree. The whole nation  nay, the allied nations, the cause of Liberty itself  stands indebted to the women of this Church for this noble and generous deed. That we shall be repaid in money for our gift does not lessen the obligation nor invalidate our 
 claim upon a nation's gratitude. Yet, how glad, how proud we are to perform this service for our suffering and glorious Cause. Our hearts and prayers go with the gift which we have laid upon the altar of our country. RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT FIELD, MOULTON, IDAHO. We add here a report of the eloquent tribute paid to our Society in Congress by Representative Welling: Congressman M. H. Welling's speech before the House of Representatives, June 7, 1918: "Mr. Chairman, the House has frequently during the progress of the war paused for a moment in its regular business to express its appreciation of some incident which has distinguished a community in its contribution to our war work. I ask the indulgence of the House this morning to refer briefly to such an event. "My State is known as the home of the 'Mormon' people. In a former generation it was the popular thing here and elsewhere to speak in terms of condemnation of their religion, as well as to question their patriotism and their loyalty to our country. "However much men may have disagreed in the past about these questions, I think it will be conceded that no man has yet successfully challenged the broad statesmanship and breadth of vision of Brigham Young, one of the great leaders of these people. "This dauntless pioneer led into a trackless desert the men 
 and women who, under his direction, laid securely the foundation of a great State. I rise this morning to speak of one very inconspicuous and minor evidence of this leadership. Brigham Young fostered and encouraged as one of the auxiliary organizations of the Church the Woman's Relief Society. With the main purpose of that great organization  its charitable and educational work  I am not now concerned. These women were advised as one of their minor activities to store wheat, and it is of this rather unusual activity I wish to speak. "In the early days of Utah's history and in the humble beginning of the Relief Society, these women gleaned the harvest fields in order that no precious head of grain should be lost. Wheat was so precious to the pioneers that it was used as a medium of exchange. It was the standard of value by which other commodities were measured. They had little or no other currency. My own mother has related to me more than once her association with and cheerful participation in this work of gleaning the precious yellow grain. RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT FIELD, MOULTON, IDAHO. "Later on, by purchase and donation, these women added more rapidly to their store of wheat. As the stock grew it was moved from the small wooden granaries belonging to the local Relief Society organizations to great steel and cement elevators constructed for that purpose and controlled by the women themselves. From the beginning these women were taught that the time would come when every available pound of wheat would be needed to conserve the Nation's life and prevent famine and starv- PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 449 ation. It has remained a strongly intrenched tradition with the women of this organization, and they believe it to be true today. "This spring, in April, there were in the elevators belonging to the 'Mormon' women of Utah and other adjacent Western States 205,518 bushels of first-class milling wheat. Last month these devoted women felt that the time had come for them to use their precious savings of more than sixty years. Through the Presidency of the 'Mormon' Church every pound of this wheat was tendered to and accepted by the United States Food Administration for the use of the starving women and children among our Allies, and for the use of our soldiers and sailors in the Army and Navy of the United States. (Applause.) RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT FIELD, MOULTON, IDAHO. "This 12,331,080 pounds of wheat so tendered to the cause of human liberty will not win the war, but it will save the lives of thousands who suffer for lack of bread to eat. "These women have with solemn pride given their sons to fight for the freedom of mankind. They now turn over to the uses of humanity these precious savings of more than a generation to bind up the broken hearted and bring back life to the helpless victims of this pitiless strife. (Applause.)" Patriotic Labors. It may be interesting to add here that our members  we number 50,598  paid out this year (in addition to the $53,883 which we gave for charity) over $21,000 for wheat, over $13,000 in the Penny Temple Fund, and for patriotic purposes entirely, 
 we purchased as ward societies, not as individuals, $24,685 of Liberty Bonds, while 14,078 memberships were taken out in the Red Cross. Moreover, ward societies canned 42,650 quarts of fruits and jellies, dried 19,375 pounds of fruit and 21,097 pounds of vegetables. While as individuals, we canned 3,264,804 quarts of fruits and jellies with an added 200,000 pounds of dried vegetables to our credit as individual members. Moreover, 49,569 articles were made for the Red Cross and 44,643 articles were made and made over, including quilts, for charitable distribution. This totals over one hundred thousand dollars collected and spent by our Society during 1917, beside all the other conservation and charitable labors. And when we recall the remarkable fact that not one cent is paid to anybody to collect or disburse these funds the loving labors of this great society appear in a truly humane and heavenly light. Suffrage. The question of universal suffrage which is now before the Senate involves the passing of what is known as the "Susan B. Anthony Amendment" to the Constitution. The word "male" citizens in the Constitution defines and restricts the privileges, civic rights and responsibilities to men only. Before the Civil war the qualifying word "white" male citizens prevented black men from voting or holding office. Abraham Lincoln and the Northern Republican party struck that qualifying word out through what is known as the fifteenth amendment. States may grant the franchise to women now, and many have done so; but the women everywhere want another amendment which shall strike out the word "male" from the Constitution, making citizenship apply to women as well as to men. The present House of Representatives have long ago consented to the amendment, but it hangs fire in the Senate. The great objection raised by its opponents is the so-called menace of the negro woman's vote in the South. It is difficult to see the human logic of such an objection; moreover, the negro woman's vote can be held in the same check that is now exercised over the negro man's vote through educational and property qualifications. As a matter of fact, no one today can vote on school questions unless he or she is a property holder; while property and educational qualifications held for years after this nation was established. We appeal to our sisters everywhere to send in letters and petitions to their United States Senators, especially outside this State, as Congressmen are anxious to please the voters, and they listen carefully to enfranchised women. We are happy to say that Senator Reed Smoot has always been a champion of women's rights, and although Senator King's attitude has been quite PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 451 opposed to this amendment, we are given now to understand he has decided to vote for the amendment; we hope our delegations from all the states where live our women voters will understand our wishes and help us in this vital issue. Universal Prohibition. Another vital issue that concerns all our women is the question of prohibition, which is also just now before Congress. The Relief Society has just contributed over two hundred thousand bushels of wheat, which represents the gleanings and savings of years, to help feed the nations in this sore time of trial. But when Hon. William J. Bryan  whose devotion to prohibition is international in scope and significance  assures us that over 70,000 bushels of grain were sent over seas last year for liquor-making, and that if the grain now used in making liquor were used in making bread, it would amount to over five million loaves of bread every day, we pause to ask ourselves and Congress why this apparent injustice to little children and delicate women? Men answer us that Congressmen are held back by wealthy and powerful liquor interests and votes count for more than lives. We hesitate to believe this. But we do urge our voting women everywhere to send letters, telegrams and petitions to our Congressmen and Senators in every state where Relief Society members reside. Let them make no mistake as to "Mormon" women's attitude on Equal Suffrage and National Prohibition. More! Let us petition high heaven to assist us and our representatives in Congress to stand for right and justice, for sobriety and sanity. God be with those who seek righteousness and truth. Dry Federation Statistics. In beer here the kaiser finds his best ally. It daily wastes enough in grain alone to give a loaf of bread to each of 5,000,000 persons. Is that war economy? Victory is more important than any business, especially a non-essential business. Germany has placed a ban on barley for beer during the war. That practically closes the breweries. Sometimes the enemy shows real sense. The natural evolution of a tun is a Hun. Halt the brewer and stop the war! A sweet pill yet a bitter  liquor licks the sugar from Uncle Sam's platter every year. That's why you count sugar lumps now and waste it? Why not save it? Two ounces is the limit in bread. Why brew it and 
 Almost 2,000,000 gallons of beer drunk here every year. Did you ever hear a brewer these days say, "Save beer?" In 1914 the price of barley in this land was little more than 54 cents a bushel. Two years later it was more than 88 cents, and the crop was scant. Yet the brewers used many million bushels to make beer, which was good news to the kaiser. Uncle Sam as yet hasn't placed brewery workers in the same bed with bartenders. But the signs are good. The National Revenue from beer is ninety-one million dollars per year and for all liquors was two hundred eighty-four million last year. While our boys are fighting in France to protect us from the Huns, shall we refuse them food and supplies in order to support this business? Three years ago eighty-eight (88) Pennsylvania brewers were indicted for putting up a slush fund of over one million dollars for election corruption  the election of a United States Senator and a legislature opposed to local option. Each one, upon being called for a hearing, stated or read from a memorandum, "I refuse to testify for fear my testimony might incriminate me." Lloyd-George said three years ago: "We are fighting three enemies, Germany, Austria and Drink, and the greatest of these is Drink!" If his advice had been heeded then, the war would now be won. Washington, D. C., went dry November 1st last. The next three months there were 2,500 fewer arrests for all causes than before  at the rate of 10,000 less per year. The annual retail drink bill of the United States before the war was two billion four hundred million dollars. This would take up our first Liberty Loan, and in addition pay the entire cost of the Panama Canal. It equals our normal annual exports. The great prosperity of the country in 1916 was due to our exports being three billion dollars in excess of our imports. National Prohibition would give us four-fifths of this prosperity when the world is at peace, by diverting the money, previously wasted, to the purchase of necessities and refinements and for the expansion of business which gives more employment to labor. This waste of money now makes the financing of the war vastly more difficult. The country's annual fire loss is about two hundred and fifty million, but the direct cost of liquor is nearly ten times as great and the indirect cost is beyond computation.