[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Prayer for the Nations Annie G. Lauritzen]

A PRAYER FOR THE NATIONS. Great God of the hosts of Israel, Look down in much mercy I pray, Relieve thou the war-ridden nations, O, lead them back into thy way. O, soften their hearts by the power Of thy Holy Spirit divine, Bring them back from the death traps of error. By a Father's deep love that is thine. Lead them back from the wild desolation; From horrors of war set earth free; Bid men turn back from following Satan, And teach them to come unto thee. O, soften their hearts by thy Spirit, No more thy blest precepts to spurn; That celestial joys they may inherit; When to heaven and thee they return. Annie G. Lauritzen. Child-Welfare Problems. TEACHING CHILDREN TO BE OBEDIENT TO THE RULES OF THE UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION, By Lucy Wright Snow. The first step necessary for correct guidance of children in this important subject is to know and be able to live up to the 12th Article of our faith, viz., "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, and in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." Latter-day Saints are fully aware of the importance of conformity to law for we know that every blessing that we receive on this earth is predicated on laws that were established in the heavens before the earth was formed (Doc. and Cov. 130:20, 21). If parents would be successful in teaching obedience to the laws of our Government, they must obey those laws themselves. It is, therefore, important that parents, especially mothers, acquaint themselves with the requirements of the United States Food Administration, for at the present time, this is a vital question that needs the support of every American citizen. Our supply of flour, fats, meat and sugar are already alarmingly short for supplying the people of the world, and they are looking to us to come to their rescue by supplying them with food. Every man, woman and child should be making an effort to produce and to save in order that we may be successful in the herculean task of feeding the world. We do not need to starve our own people, nor eat less than is necessary for good health and full strength, but we do need to substitute other foods for the things we are short of, an.d the time has come to put aside all selfishness  the time has come for sacrifice. What benefits will my child derive by conformity to the rules and regulations of our Government concerning conservation of food? First, he will learn obedience, the first law of heaven, one of the most difficult to teach to the child and yet the most important, the one which Christ taught unceasingly during his entire ministry. A child feels happy in the knowledge that mother and father are obedient and that they are doing the same things for Uncle Sam that they are teaching him to do. There is something interesting to him in a wheatless or meatless day when he observes that the parents have regard to the request of