[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Apostrophe to Jerusalem Eliza R. Snow]

Apostrophe to Jerusalem. The City with a cherished name  A name in garlands drest Adorned with ancient, sacred fame As City of the blest. Thy rulers once were mighty men  Thy sons renowned in war: Thy smiles were sought and courted then By people from afar. A holy Temple, built as God Directed it should be; In which his glory shone abroad, With heavenly majesty; Was great adornment to thy place. And lustre to thy name; With much of grandeur, wealth and grace, To magnify thy fame. The Lord was with thee then, and deigned. In speech well understood. Through prophets, by his wisdom trained. To counsel for thy good. Attracted by illustrious fame. As by a ruling star. To study wisdom, people came From other
climes afar. Thine then, a chosen, favored land. Was crowned with plenty's smile; The mountains dropped down fatness, and The hillsides, wine and oil. And thou wert like a golden gem Upon a nation's brow. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Alas! what art thou now? Degraded, and on every hand, From wisdom all estranged; Thy glory has departed and All, but thy name, is changed. 
 From God withdrawn  by him forsook To all intents depraved; Beneath the Turkish iron yoke Thou long hast been enslaved. Divested of all heav'nly rites, Thy crest has fallen low: Around thy walls are squalid sights Of beggary and woe. Thy streets are narrow, filthy lanes, Offensive to the breath; Thy pools appear like sewer drains That breed disease and death. No Temple now, that God designed  No church by him approved  No prophet to reveal his mind, By inspiration moved. Where once a royal Banner spread, The Crescent's waving now. A sable wreath is on thy head, And blood upon thy brow. The curse of God thy changes wrought, Thro' crimes the Jews have done, When they his counsels set at nought, And crucified his Son. Since then has retribution's hand Put forth its fearful skill Upon thy structures and thy land, A destiny to fill. Thy children, Seed of Israel, Of God's "Peculiar care," On whom the weight of judgment fell. Are scattered everywhere. Thy sun has not forever set  God has a great design. And will fulfil his purpose yet. Concerning Palestine. APOSTROPHE TO JERUSALEM. 441 The appointed time will surely come. ; According to his will, For God, with "faithful Abraham," His cov'nants to fulfil. Thyself redeemed from deep disgrace Of filth and negligence; These uncouth structures shall give place To taste and elegance. Thy walls shall be of precious stones  Thy gates of richest pearl; And Shall on thy tow'ring sacred banners battlements, furl. The Seed of Jacob then shall dwell In bold security: More than the former glory shall Thy latter glory be. Eliza R. Snow. Jerusalem, Palestine, March 4, 1873. Woman's Exponent Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 15, 1874.