[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home | Title: Home Economics Department Janette A. Hyde]
Home Economics Department. Janette A. Hyde. May we urge the women of our Church to make special preparation for the salting and drying of food for the coming winter? However much we may have done last year, we still need to prepare for the exigencies of this coming season. To meet the great demands of the hour it needs be that we conserve, preserve and care for every ounce of food which may come within our reach. By consulting the June, July, August and September numbers of last year's Magazine, you will find many valuable hints on the putting up of fruits by way of preserving, canning, salting and drying. We are presenting methods which have been tried out by the government in the salting process and feel sure they will be very valuable to those who may wish to use this method of preserving vegetables. We also recommend the putting up of eggs, now that eggs are more plentiful than they will be later in the season, when the cold weather comes on. If we are well supplied with eggs in the home we can then dispose of our laying hens to the market, or by canning them in fruit jars with the pressure cooker, thus releasing many pounds of meat, and food which would otherwise be consumed by large numbers of chickens may be held over for winter use. We also call the attention of the sisters to the necessity of using milk in cooking as well as the by-products made. Use the different kinds of cheese, especially do we emphasize the use of cottage cheese. Its food value, in taking the place of meat in the diet, is unquestionable. We ask, too, that the sisters who have charge of the Home Economics Department in the Relief Society make a special effort to ascertain the amount of fruits and vegetables cared for, as a Society and as individuals, and that they hand in a report, as we are very anxious to compile a report of our activities at the close of this year. We draw your attention to the fact now, that nothing may escape your observation. PRESERVATION OF VEGETABLES BY FERMENTATION AND SALTING. General Rules  Good materials must be selected. All containers and utensils must be scalded. Clean and blanch food stuffs. Store in a cool place and keep surface well covered. 
 Brining  Materials: Green tomatoes, cucumbers, cauliflower, peas, string beans, corn on cob, green peppers, brussels sprouts, pears and quince to be spiced and sweetened later. Solution: 20% = 2 lbs. salt to 1 gal. water. Method: Place in container, cover with brine, using half as much brine as there is space in container. Cover with a cloth, place a plate and weight on top and an outside cover. Store in a cool place. Dry Salting  No Fermentation  Materials: All greens, string beans, corn, etc., may be a little older. Amount: 1 lb. salt to 4 lbs. food. Method: Alternate layers salt and material: the last layer to be salt. Cover with cloth, board, weight. If after 24 hours enough brine has not been formed to cover vegetables, pour over a brine of 1 lb. salt to 2 quarts water. Fermentation  Dry Salt  Amount: 1/4 lb. salt to 10 lbs. vegetables. Material: All greens, string beans and corn. The vegetables may be a little older. Method: Pack in alternate layers and proceed as before. Keep in a warm place until all bubbling ceases. Test by tapping side of barrel; if no bubbles arise, fermentation is complete. Protection from Mold  In preservation of materials with dry salt there is danger of a scum or mold forming on the surface. To prevent this, pour cottonseed oil to one quarter of an inch thick over the surface. Another method is to use melted paraffin. A disadvantage is that should any gas form below the surface, the seal will be broken. Care must be used, therefore, not to cover until fermentation has ceased. COMMUNITY KITCHEN SPONGE CAKE. 4 eggs 3/4 C. sugar 1/2 C. wheat flour 1/4 ts. salt 1/4 C. cornstarch 1 ts. baking powder 1 1/2 tbsp. lemon juice 1/4 C. water Grated rind of 1/2 lemon (Reserve 2 tbsp. sugar) Beat egg yolks and sugar until thick and light colored. Add part of the moisture and continue beating. Fold in flour and baking powder and add remainder of moisture. Beat whites until they can be inverted and fold in two tablespoons full of sugar. Combine mixture "caressing mixture as though it were a baby." Put in oiled pan with oiled paper in bottom part. Put in slow oven and increase heat gradually. Bake in loaf pan about 35 to 45 minutes. HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT.
