[WomansExponent | Vol7 | 1878 | Unknown | Issue: 18 | Title: A FABLE BY LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE. | Author: Unknown]

A FABLE BY LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE.
There lived at the West certain Wicked
Foxes who built large Traps in which they
caught great numbers of Foolish Field
Mice.  Now all  other Foxes who had
no Traps pretended a great horror at this,
although every one of them would catch
Field Mice whenever he could Secretly,
and devour them without the least com-
punction.  So the Foxes who had no Traps
assembled together to see how they could
destroy the Traps of the Western Foxes,
and one of Them ably said:-- "We must do
Something to Somebody, because the whole
nation of Foxes is disgraced by these
Traps."  Then another one said:-- "let us
cut off Somebody's Ears!" and they all
applauded the suggestion with admiration.
But when they come to consider whose
ears they should cut off, they were much
puzzled until one old Fox, who had eaten
a Vast Quantity of Mice in his Day, said,
"Cut off the Ears of the Field Mice."
There was great rejoicing over this
wise Proposal, and when one Fox feebly
whispered that as the Western Foxes were
the real criminals, it would be more sensi-
ble to Cut off their Ears, his Companions
all looked at him with scorn.  "Why" said
they, "the Western Foxes are as Big as we
are." No no!  These Field Mice are little
and weak; they cannot hurt Us whatever
we do to them."  So the Foxes solemnly
resolved to cut off the Ears of the Field
Mice in order to destroy the Wicked Traps,
MORAL.--Always hit some one Smaller
than Yourself.


ANNA DICKINSON, at the solicitation of 
friends, has consented to appear again on
the lecture platform, and give, in a series
of lectures, the result of her studies. Miss
Dickenson is said to have consented to this
arrangement with reluctance, fearing it
might be supposed that she had given up
her intention to follow the stage. Her
lectures will be delivered in only the larg-
est cities, beginning in New York, and her
subjects for the series, which will include
four lectures, will be "John of Arc,"
"Henry IV," "Voltaire," and "Danton."
She will be under the management of the
American Literary Bureau—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			A PROPHECY.
	The decision of the Supreme Court of 
the United States, and its bearing upon the 
Reynold's case, is calculated to rouse the 
indignation of the Latter-day Saints; and
many express great pity for Brother Rey-
nolds.  Do I pity him?  Not if he is the
man I think he is.  If I was a man I would 
envy his position to-day.  He is the peo-
ple's offering, and their prayers will ascend
up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth,
and the special care of the Almighty will
be over and round about him.  When I
view his case with a prophetic eye, I see
no cause for pity!  I pity the ignorance of 
our opponents and despise their temerity.
Brother Reynolds is guilty of no crime; if 
he suffers it will be for the principles of 
truth and right.  He is the Isaac that Abra-
ham is about to offer up as a sacrafice, and 
as in Isaac's case; a ram will be caught in
the thicket, and Haman (Anti Polygamy)
will hang upon the gallows, erected for
Mordecai, (Polygamy) while Mordecai is 
clothed in costly raiment, and a crown of 
gold placed upon his head, and nations will
bow in homage before him.
ENG.
12th ward S. L. City, Jan. 17, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT]
MY LITTLE HOME.
My little home!  I look around and days
and hours of happiness arise before me, I
recall the hours when my dearly beloved
husband sat and talked with me, or smiled
upon our children, or sang hymns with us
all.  Hours that come not again, save in
remembrance, the smile has faded from his
face and the song of "Sweet rest in Heaven"
has been realized; blessed hours of the past!
They live forever in the memory like the
fragrance of a crushed flower.  Those hours
will never be forgotton, and the memory
of them is often evoked by some slight oc-
curence, and a halo of happiness comes with
it. But then again arises the  memory of
hours of sorrow, at other times, hours of
bitterness of spirit, when death had inva-
ded the household, and life seemed a blank,
save for the comfort of my children.
Gloomy hours, sorrowful hours; but than
God, time has taken the keen edge from
those deep griefs, and I can look back upon
them now without sorrowing.  Here where
memory paints its pictures the happy hours
that I have spent with my children com
trooping before me, though anxious hours
again intervene.  Sunshine and shadow,
chase eacc other.  But all these have en-
deared my little humble home to me.
EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, Jan. 4th 1779.


IT is now generally conceded that woman
is largely the moral teacher of the race:
that, by the sacred office of motherhood,
she becomes the primary instructor of eth-
ics.  But she has consulted Man's text book
of morals, imparting its lessons, age after
age, generation after generation.  Yet in 
this period of her awakening, she discovers
that Man's ethical standards are in great
need of revision; in short, that woman
herself should now largely determine the 
standard and method of moral education
for the race.  This work she will perform,
for the most part, through all womanly
methods in the home-life, and through all
the gracious spheres of her loves and friend-
ships.  She will thus fertilize the roots of
social life with the genius of an unselfish
spirituality. --E. C. BRISTOL.


