[Vol21 | February 1934 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature (Third Week in April)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
THE ROMANTIC SPIRIT
"O hark, O hear! How thin and clear, And thinner, clearer, farther going! O sweet and far from cliff and scar The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!"
"The Bugle Song'—Tennyson
Books are dream children. To all men comes the chance to dream. Some in dreams are eternal vagabonds, roaming the world at large; some in dreams are rulers and potentates, holding mankind in their power; some in dreams are reformers, seeking to refine the lives of men; some in dreams are creators of symphonies, maintaining the things of the spirit in a material world; but all dream of Love because it is the way of Happiness.
The Way of Romance. The voice of Youth is the voice of Romance. Youth, whether of an individual or of a race, is a time of emotional reaction rather than of philosophic reflection.
Much of the youthful expression of the world has been lost because it existed orally.
When we can trace the expression of the youth of a race, we find songs of war, of worship, and of love. Western Europe enjoyed its youth when the world was no longer young, and thus recorded in permanent form its youthful expression. The Middle Ages was the youth of Western Europe. The master spirit of Romance in Europe was the Celtic race. The Celts were young when Greece and Italy were young.
They were vagabonds for ages, wandering on and on to the West.
Coming to the ocean they settled in France and Britain. The Celts were a childlike people with a happy, radiant view of life. To them the world was but a fragment of a more beautiful world of eternal youth, where those who have lived honorable lives in this life dwell in perfect happiness. He was a wanderer because life to him was an endless quest, a profound sense of the future ruled him.
Driven to the fringes of the British Isles by Romans, Angles, Saxons, and Danes, they lived in comparative freedom for many centuries maintaining their racial temperament. To the Celts we owe a large body of charming tales, from which we know that they had a high sense of personal honor and that they held women in great respect.
From them the world first received the stories of Saint Brenden's marvelous voyage, of King Arthur's passing to Avalon, and of Sir Tristram's love for the beautiful Iseult.
These stories have permeated many literatures and have delighted readers young and old of many lands for nearly a thousand years.
Christianity and Feudalism were the forces that brought about the emergence of Western Europe from the Dark Ages.
Feudalism was a practical form of government of peasants and overlords swearing allegiance to a ruler. A system of chivalric behavior evolved which embodied with government ideals of nobility derived from Christian principles. The supreme figure of chivalry was the knight. The romance of chivalry found expression in LESSON DEPARTMENT songs of valiant knights and courtly love. On the other hand Christianity with its spirituality and its monastic life was the source of the moral influence brought to medieval life. The saint was the supreme figure of Christianity. The priest was a librarian, copying the manuscript records, also was he a teacher instructing the common people in the principles of Christian life by reciting and reading to them Bible stories, saints lives, and sermons.
Medieval literature is marked with the same vigor, beauty, and spiritual aspiration as is found in the tapestries from feudal halls and in the sculpture in the Gothic cathedrals of Europe. Medieval Romance.
National heroes and  knights, priests and saints, lords and ladies, make up the body of medieval romance, created first by troubadors and minnesingers and recorded later by national poets. The song's of the romancers may be grouped as follows: first, songs of great deeds, expressing loyalty to one's lord and delight in combat in his defence; second, songs of spiritual struggle and exaltation; third, songs or romantic love and courtly 'honor.
Arthur of Britain and Charlemagne of France are the central figures of cycles of heroic narratives. "The Song of Roland" presents in epic splendor the French national hero, Roland. Roland, the nephew of Charlemagne, was the hero of the great conflict between the French and the pagan Basques of Spain. The romance makes Roland a Christian hero defending his country against the pagans, and gives to the hero a faithful friend, Oliver; a wicked enemy, Ganelon; an invincible sword, Durendal; the love of a beautiful maid, Aude. The poem as it records the critical struggle of France against its pagan enemy, recounts the treachery of Ganelon, who to satisfy his deepseated enmity against Roland, betrays the rearguard of Charlemagne's army, the details of the great battle at Roncesvalles, and the loving devotion of Oliver as he faced death with his friend Roland. The romance does more than merely record heroic details; it reveals the basic elements of the spirit of the French-aristocratic idealism, loyal vassalage, fearlessness of thought, comradeship, and a love of pageantry and formality. The richest and deepest symbol of the religious exaltation attained in medieval life was the Holy Grail. The Grail was the cup used by Jesus and his disciples at the Last Supper.
According to tradition it was brought to Britain by Joseph of Arimathea and deposited at the abbey at Glastonbury, where it was committed to the keeping of the Knights of the Grail.
Upon the failure of that group to live up to its holy vows, the Grail disappeared.
Going in quest of it constituted the highest adventure of medieval knighthood. In French literature the Grail romance is told by Chretian or Troyes making Parceval the hero of the quest. In German literature the romance of the Grail has for its hero Parzival, a saintly knight.
Thus we have the heroes of the two chivalries, one earthly and one spiritual. Sir Thomas Malory in the English version of the Grail romance makes Galahad a spiritual hero worthy of the quest because of his emancipation as an earthly hero. To medieval romance must be attributed a significant literary development, that of creating women 114 characters. How different are Guinevere, Iseult, Enid, and Deidra than Helen, Penolope, and Cleopatra?
They are so very human and so very real.
During the Dark Ages woman was not only the inferior of man but she was his evil genius.
With the coming of Christianity and the reverence given to Mary, the mother of Jesus, by the Holy Roman Church, woman was elevated and love was spiritualized.
These ideals were appropriated by society and became the ideals of marriage. One of the many beautiful stories exemplars of courtly love which grew in this period of romance is the story of the love of Tristram and Iseult.
Chretian of Troyes is responsible for the French version of the romance.
Gottfried von Strassburg for the German version, and Thomas of Britain for the English version. It will be recalled that Wagner, the great German composer, utilized the themes of these medieval romances in his music dramas "Parsifal" and "Tristan and Isolde".
Tristram and Iseult. The story of the love of Tristram and Iseult is one of the great love stories of all time. The origin of the story was veiled in mystery until Lady Gregory gave to the world the beautiful translation of the Celtic saga. "Cuchulain" (ka hi Jan), which contains the tragic struggle of an uncle and his nephews for the love of the most beautiful woman in Ireland.
Knightly romance makes Tristram the hero. An orphan trained in knightly accomplishments, he becomes the favorite at-the court of his uncle King Mark of Cornwall.
Suffering from a mortal wound Tristram seeks healing from the magic' powers of Queen Iseult of Ireland.
Upon his return Tristram sings the praises of the beautiful Princess Iseult, daughter of the Queen of Ireland.
Tristram is dispatched to obtain the beautiful Iseult as a bride for King Mark. The young people become lovers. Finally, Tristram is banished to Brittany.
After many years he marries Iseult of Brittany.
Again being near death Tristram sends for the Queen of Cornwall. The jealousy of Iseult of Brittany keeps from Tristram the news ot the queen's arrival with the messenger.
Tristram dies of a broken heart. When Queen Iseult finds her lover dead she expires by his side. The bodies are sent to Cornwall and the king knowing the truth of their tragic love for one another had a beautiful chapel erected for their tombs.
Medieval literature, tapestries and carvings recorded the story of Tristram and Iseult in many forms; modern poets have used the theme frequently; today the romance takes its place with the loves of Helen and Paris, of Lancelot and Guinevere, of Romeo and Juliet, of Ableard and Heloise. The Princess—Alfred Tennyson, The Princess, a romantic medley, is a delightful romance as well as a beautiful poetic creation. It is the work of Alfred Tennyson, the poetic genius that created "The Idylls of the King," a masterpiece of lofty thought in exquisite poetic style, and "In Memoriam" with its soul-stirring power. The poem has for its theme the emancipation of woman, a great problem, one causing great diversity of opinion ever since its definite formulation with the co-education of the sexes. At the time Tennyson wrote it, 1847, it was a new one, the University of London had opened its LESSON DEPARTMENT doors to woman for the first time and the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, was preparing to follow suit. The poem is not a philosophical treatise abounding in lofty argument or emotional persuasion, but it -is a delightful exhibition of a very natural chain of circumstances glorifying the traditional conception of the spiritual place of woman in the scheme of life. Picted, the playful mood, and the poetic expression blend harmoniously in an exquisite tone picture.
There is so much tenderness, such simple dignity of expression, that so long as the English language is loved and spoken "The Princess" and its songs, "Sweet and Low," "Ask Me No More," "The Bugle Song," will hold a reverenced place. The Prologue. The broad acres and stately old mansion of Sir Walter Vivian are crowded with guests, the peasants of the countryside and the personal friends of the family. The host had provided all that entertainment could provide for his guests. The poet is the college friend of the son of Sir Walter. As he strolls through the halls he is interested in the curios scattered around. He is particularly attracted to an old family chronicle containing a glowing account of "the feudal lady of the family" who armed and led her followers against a foe threatening her domains—"O miracle of noble womanhood!" said the chronicle. The poet is carried away by a group of merrymakers to join the family at the Abbey.
There the conversation drifted aimlessly until the feudal ancestress is mentioned. At recital of her bravery Walter, playfully patting his sister's head asks, '"'Lives there such a woman now?" The incidents depicted. 115 "Quick answered Lilia, 'There are thousands now Such women, but convention beats them down That I were some great princess, I would build Far off from men a college like a man's a 'And I would teach them all that men are taught; Wie are twice as quick!' " Then and there, says the poet "we planned a 'summer's' tale," as Walter suggested Lilia was the heroine and each in turn added his chapter: "So I began And the rest followed; and the women sang Between the rougher voices of the men Like linnets in the pauses of the wind." Episode I—The Prince's Story. The prince of an ancient kingdom was betrothed at an early age to a neighboring princess. At his maturity his father sends ambassadors with appropriate gifts requesting that the compact be filled. The Princess denounces the arrangement because she has other plans for her life. The prince attended by his friends, Florian and Cyril, presents himself at the neighboring court.
They are received graciously by the king, Gama. He is enthusiastic still to have the betrothal compact enforced, and is embarrassed at his daughter's obstinacy. The headstrong princess assisted by two older women, Lady Psyche and Lady Blanche, has founded a university for women. The prince and his friends disguised as "three ladies of the Northern empire" present themselves at the uni116 versity requesting the privilege of enrollment. Episode II—The University. The new students are first received by the College Portress, who sees that they are fittingly robed in academic silks.
They are then taken to Princess Ida. At her request the statutes of the university were read by an officer which included the rules: "Not for three years to correspond with home; Not for three years to speak to any men:" Then followed a lecture by Princess Ida on the lives of such women as Semiramis, the legendary founder of Babylon; Artemisia, the brave assistant of Heres on his Grecian expedition; Rhodope, the Egyptian princess reputed to have built a pyramid; Agrippina, Cornelia, and Celia, famous Roman matrons.
Upon being assigned as pupils of Lady Psyche they listen to a lecture praising the legendary Amazons, Elizabeth of England, Joan of France, Sappho of Greece and concluded with the prophecy for the future of women: "Everywhere Two heads in council, two beside the hearth, Two in the tangled business of the world, Two in the liberal offices of life."
Talking to the new pupils after the lecture, Lady Psyche recognizes her brother Florian. At first she is indignant, reminding him of the inscription on the gate, "Let no man enter in on pain of death." Finally, she yields to the entreating arms of her brother pouring forth a torrent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of questions about home showing that her heart is hungry for "sweet household talk" and "phrases of the hearth." Melissa, Lady Psyche's little daughter, enters to witness a scene very foreign to the atmosphere of the university. She is sworn to secrecy.
Still in disguise the visitors stroll about the campus until the organ of the chapel peals forth its melodious call for assembly.
Then six hundred maidens clad in purest white assemble to hear the psalms and litanies as Princess Ida invokes the blessings of heaven on her labors for the cause of women. Episode IlI—The Princess. A song is sung—one of the most exquisite of Tennyson's songs, "Sweet and Low." In contrast to the scene just pictured is that of a mother crooning a prayerful lullabye to her babe as they await the sailor husband and father.
Melissa meets the new pupils at the fountain as they are enjoying the morning splendor, and beseeches them to fly. At the request of Florian, Melissa relates in detail the university scheme and its administration.
Melissa reveals that there exists a definite rivalry between the two women, Lady Psyche and Lady Blanche.
Cyril acting upon this information gains entrance to Lady Blanche, and pleads the suit of his friend.
Later all participate in a geology trip, and by design the prince and Ida are much together.
Pleading for himself the prince suggests: "Might I dread that you, With only fame for spouse and your great deeds For issue, yet may live in vain, and miss, LESSON DEPARTMENT Meanwhile, what every woman counts her due, Love, children happiness." The Princess answers giving her preference for deeds that cannot die. The prince listened and wondered if this strange poet-princess could ever be won. The scene closes witn the evening shadows and the echoes of "The Bugle Song" resounding the message: "Our echoes roll from seul to soul And grow forever and forever." Episode I1V—Tumult. The beauty of the evening lures all. At the command of the Princess, a maiden takes a harp and sings the song "Tears, Idle Tears." To the song's message the princess is disdainful. The prince is asked to contribute to the evening's pastime, and in an aping treble sings "O, Swallow Flying South." Cyril, then, is asked to sing a song of his countrywomen.
With a show of humor he sings an old ballad of two indelicate creatures, "Moll and Meg." The indignant women call "forbear," and the prince smites Cyril on the breast.
Tumult reigns and the prince and his companions are discovered. At this point dispatches are delivered to the Princess, one is from the king acquainting her of the fact that he has been taken as hostage for the safe keeping of the prince, the other is from the father of the prince demanding the fulfilment of the betrothal compact before the aged Gama can be released. The prince pleads his cause and is scornfully refused by Princess Ida. A conference of students is called to decide whether the university scheme be continued or not.
Lilia now sings "Thy Voice Is Heard Through Rolling 117
Drums," flinging anger against the raillery thus far spoken against her idea. Episode V—The Combat. The prince and Florian return home to find Cyril and Lady Psyche already there. King Gama is freed but is ordered to make his daughter yield or war will ensue. The prince consults the king but to no avail, so he goes to consult Ida's brothers. The three brothers of the Princess decide to fight the prince and his two friends rather than to throw the country into war. On hearing of the intended combat, the king in wrath declares: "Man for the field, and woman for the hearth, Man for the sword and for the needle she, Man with the head and woman with the heart, Man to command and woman to obey. All else confusion." The combat is held as arranged, and the prince and the sons of Gama are wounded. Episode VI—Conquest. The song "Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead" is very fittingly placed here. Princess Ida hearing of the combat leads a train of maidens across the park to where her wounded brothers lay. By chance, she passes the king bent in grief over the motionless form of his son.
Yielding to her heart she orders the prince to be moved to the college along with her wounded brothers. The king refuses, demanding that his son be removed to the tents for safety. Now the Princess pleads her cause: 118 "O Sire, Grant me your son to nurse, to wait upon him Like mine own brother, for my debt to him." The injured men are removed to the college. Episode VII—Submission. The last scene of the romance opens with the exquisite song "Ask Me No More." The college is turned into a hospital and kindness and sympathy take the place of cold logic. The Princess is sad with a sense of shame at her foolishness.
Love in the sacred halls holds carnival when the Princess yields to her lover. As the random story closes, Walter exclaims, "I wish she had not yielded."
Lilia remained silent for the tale had touched her.
Tennyson made the woman problem solvable by love; he had an abiding faith in its spirituality. The romance implied that women do not want less emotion but larger emotion; they need more love not less, more universal love and less selfish love; more sense of beauty, art, and right. The work of the world lies open to women for "The woman's cause is man's; they rise or fall together."
Each must contribute their diversity to be combined harmoniously. The heart of the problem remains unaltered in spite of the years that have passed. In the lines that follow the poet pays tribute to his mother as he expresses his ideal of womanhood: "Not perfect, nay, but full of tender wants, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE No angel, but a dearer being, all dipt In angel instincts, breathing Paradise, Interpreter between the gods and men, Happy he With such a mother!
Faith in womankind, Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high Comes easy to him." The spirit of Romance is the spirit of Love.
Suggestions for Study. — A. Materials: 1. The Story 'of the World's Literature—Macy. Chapters 13-16. 2. The Princess—Tennyson. 3. Old Fashioned Tales, Hero Tales, Folk Tales—from the Harvard Junior Classics. Volumes 6, 7. B. Program: 1, Music a.
Songs from "The Princess" —by Tennyson. 2.
Discussion a. The Romantic Spirit. 3.
Review a. The Princess. B. The Love Story of Tristram and Iseult. C. Method: This is a lesson of interesting significance to women.
Make it Delightful. Note: Select from this lesson the part that you prefer. The whole of the lesson cannot be covered.