[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 218 | Home | My Priority List Winnifred | C. Jardine]
Third on my priority list are the cultural things of life—and the development and enjoyment of talents, good music, drama and dance, painting and drawing and sculpture, fine poetry and prose, delicate handwork and skilled craftsmanship. I think often about the parable of the talents and choose to interpret it literally as we understand the word talent—the natural endowments we each possess. It's a responsibility and a privilege to seek out and enrich the talents we possess and to enjoy the fruits of the talents of others. Again, however, there are those who place this first on their priority lists, forgetting to temper it with the refinement and humility and virtue that come with spiritual growth. Taken out of its proper place, this value can become twisted and _ill-proportioned and can even become a vehicle for evil. Last of all on my list of priorities come the material things of life, a discipline difficult to stay with in this day of wealth and materialism. The above-menMY PRIORITY LIST tioned parable of the talents, but giving the word "talent" the Hebrew meaning of money value, could be used to support the seeking of material goods. And yet more strongly comes again the counsel delivered in the Sermon on the Mount: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor, steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Everyone would like worldly wealth—new cars, bigger homes, beautiful clothes, and plentiful food. And there are good and fine people who have attained them. But these things must be fitted into their proper place, be sought only in their proper time, and be valued only in proper relation to other greater values. When we have reached the ends of our lives upon this earth and turn back to reckon with all we have done, the joy and delight of our accomplishments will li, I feel, in direct proportion to this priority list. Our truly spiritual achievements will bring us the greatest joy; the knowledge we have gained in righteousness will come close on its heels; the richness of living through the enjoyment of beautiful work and the development of our own talents will surely bring a warm glow of gratification. But at this point in our lives it's quite likely that any material progress we may have made will deliver little or no sense of satisfaction. The mere possession of material goods will have been its own reward. 219 & i 'WE a Ue Chapter 3 Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes that, in spite of many material blessings enjoyed by the family, there is a need for spirituality and for religious training. Rex agrees to permit Jennie and the children to become active in the Church for a trial period of one year.