[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 188 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Marguerite Higgins, famous American journalist, died January 3, 1966, at the age of forty-three, of a liver complaint which it is believed, she contracted in the line of duty in Viet Nam. ''Maggie'' Higgins was especially noted as a war correspondent, and always placed the accuracy, humanity, and general high quality of her work above her personal welfare. One of her editors said of her, ''She was one of the best newspapermen this country ever had."' She was still turning in columns while she lay critically ill in the hospital. Michico, Crown Princess of Japan, gave birth to a second son in December. Third in line to the throne, the prince was named Fumihito, and given the title ''Ayanomiya.'' In the Japanese language, Fumihito means ''knowledge pursuer."' Mrs. Mabel Jones Gabbott, whose poems have appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, has been named poetry and fiction editor of the Improvement Era. She is the author of the words to three Latter-day Saint hymns: "In Humility, Our Savior," "Lord, Accept Into Thy Kingdom," and "Rejoice, Ye Saints of Latter Days."' She has served in the Northwestern States Mission. Miss lanthe Harris of New York City is director of the American Nurses Association educational program. The aim is to help this large national group to perform functions in society which cannot be performed individually. 188 Princess Chumbhot of Thailand is Chairman of Bangkok's new Asia Trust Bank, Ltd. Many other women of Thailand are leaders in various types of business, and it is estimated that women own about ninety per cent of Bangkok's real estate. Mrs. Somsri Charoenrajapark is manager and owner of a mammoth combination of bowling alleys, restaurants, and parking garages. She owns a large interest in the more-thana-million-dollar President Hotel. Mrs. Suni Telan owns and manages much of the stock of a holding company which controls several hotels, an export-import firm, rice mills, teak and mining companies, an aluminum fabricating plant, and extensive real estate. Supapan Mejudhon helps her mother run a forty-nine boat ferry fleet on the Chao Phraya River. Marion Sheil, personnel director of the Cuyahoga County, Ohio, public library system, is one of the many library officials reporting an acute shortage in this profession. In her district, which circulates some five million books annually, she reports that it often takes two years to find trained personnel to staff the twenty-four libraries in Cuyahoga County. It has been estimated that there are about 6,000 medical libraries in the country, but only 3,000 trained librarians to staff them. Juanita Groves, a Ute Indian of Myton, Duchesne County, Utah, has initiated a series of health education programs for Indian women. The first program included instruction in personal hygiene and certain aspects of communicable disease prevention. You Can Help, Too Emil Henderson American Red Cross @ ''Please let me know if there is anything I can do to help."' How many times have we said and written these words to a friend or had a friend say them to us when tragedy and misfortune struck. They are words expressing the true meaning of the brotherhood of man. Unfortunately, since we cannot always be there or do not always know that people are in trouble and need our help, we must often rely on someone else to do the job for us. The American Red Cross is one organization that is uniquely well suited and perfectly willing to do the job and to say to people in every corner of the nation and the world: ''Let me help.'' But, as President Johnson reminded us when he declared March as Red Cross Month, only we can keep the Red Cross strong and on the job by our contributions of money and volunteer service. If we cannot go to Louisiana to help the — left homeless by Hurricane Betsy, we can entrust our dollars to the Red Cross to be sent in our place. Few of us can go to Viet Nam to provide the essential personal services needed by our able-bodied and wounded military personnel, but Red Cross is there for us. Most of us can give a few hours every week as volunteers. The Red Cross offers us the opportunity to reach the people in our own community who have a special need for the friendship and help of another human being.