[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 233 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Simplify the Job Hazel | S. Cannon]
And as we go once more down ways we've known, We learn that all the times that follow after Acquire a certain magic all their own! WHILE THEY LAST Teaching Aids from BYU Education Weeks 1965 we UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE - by Ernest L. Olson Four Lectures: I. Stories Which Show the Importance of Attitude ll. Stories and Poems on Good and Evil lll. Stories, Poems, and an Essay on the Place of Suffering in Life IV. Stories, Poems, and an Essay on Suffering and on Facing Death PRICE $1.00 AND DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 by Roy W. Doxey; —— _ PRICE $1.50 EXTENSION PUBLICATIONS Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601 Please send me copies of UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE Please send me copies of DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 For each publication ordered, include $.10 for postage. Enclosed is a check or money order for $ _._ --.--.-.-- Wame ccvcecsses seuuueneec 00 SREB _...

232 I I Lesson Department ] RNR er OS ee ge bebe Le SO aa ee 7 7 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Simplify the Job For Second Meeting, June 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for November 1966 Objective: To show how principles of work simplification can save time and contribute to personal and family satisfactions. "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God"? (D&C 88:119). INTRODUCTION Emphasized in previous discussions on creative homemaking has been the importance of organization and scheduling of housekeeping activities to fit the individual family. Attacking the specific job now becomes paramount. ANALYZE THE JOB How efficient are you? Efficiency experts have determined that often a poor housekeeper works much longer and harder than a good housekeeper because She fails to organize the job and her time. Many homemakers are inefficient and are not aware of it. Perhaps they are inefficient in a portion of a task but not in the entire procedure, or, perhaps, they "sail through" some jobs beautifully and get "bogged down" with others. How about following the pattern of business and industry and doing a' job analysis? You might discover that you can do the job better in much less time. Remember, to be more efficient also means that the job performance is consistent with your standards, your values, and goals. Do not underrate or overrate yourself. Be as objective as possible in order to discover the areas in which you can improve and those with which you should be satisfied. Directions: As you read each of the following statements, ask yourself honestly, "How does this apply to me?" The five ratings which you will use are: A-always; U-usually; O-oc- 


 casionally; S-seldom; N-never. Just before each number, write the letter that stands for the rating you can give yourself on that question. (Note to discussion leader: Copies of the Job Analysis Rating Chart could be given to each class member for individual checking, or paper could be passed out, the ratings listed on the chalkboard, and the leader could quickly read each question as the members rate themselves. A brief discussion could follow.) TO DO AND THINK ABOUT JOB ANALYSIS RATING CHART (Based on the principles—eliminate, combine, rearrange, simplify) __. 1. Do you ask yourself if the job isnecessary? Example: Careful hanging and folding of laundry will eliminate some ironing. —_.. 2. Do you have a clear. Understanding of the way the job is to be done? Example: It is necessary when trying a new recipe to follow' directions exactly. It may be wise to make notes of the correct way to do a job that only needs doing once or twice a year; such as, seasonal care of clothing; protecting woolens and putting cottons away clean. This question is pertinent in instructing the family. —— 3. Do you determine if each step is necessary? Example: It may be more satisfactory to drain dishes, rather than to wipe them. —— 4. Do you combine one step with another part of the job, when feasible? Example: Lightly soiled linoleum may be cleaned and waxed in the same operation with one of the new liquid floor preparations. —— 5. Do you rearrange the order of the steps for greater efficiency? Example: "One trip bed-making'"—making the bed in one "U" pattern around the bed. ——. 6. Are you motion-minded and do you form little routines for jobs in which repetition is involved? Example: Use a sys- 234 tem in folding a pile of towels _ or in peeling a pan of potatoes. _—. 7. Do you try to use both hands _ effectively? Example: A righthanded person does. Dishes most efficiently by working from right to left. She holds the dish in her left hand, wash- _ ing it with the right, and places the dish in the dish drain to the left without changing hands. — 8. Do you try to work wit fewer smooth motions, rather than many fast, jerky motions? Example: In ironing a shirt, greater efficiency is achieved by the fewest possible strokes, making the pressure of the iron even. Fast, jerky motio put wrinkles in the shirt. —— 9. Do you try to work at a pace which is best for you and the job? Example: Too fast dusting may leave as much dust on the table as on the cloth. 10. Do you train yourself to do all there is to do at one pla at one time, or all of one stop before proceeding to the next — step? Example: While you are at the refrigerator, remove all items needed. ——ll. Do you dovetail your work? Example: While waiting for the potatoes to cook, clean up — your sink. — 12. Do you consolidate your work when possible? Example: While you are making a casserole for dinner, make an extra one for the freezer; market less often but buy for a longer period of time. __13. Do you attack a big or difficult job when you are at the peak of your energy, rather than when you are weary? Example: Put in a "tricky" hem on a dress early in the day when you are fresh, rather than after dinner. __14. Do you conserve your energy by sitting to do some tasks? Example: Sit at an adjustable ironing board while ironing; use a lap board for some types of food preparation. If you rated "always" and "usually" most of the time, you are doing well. If you rate chiefly in the "seldom" and "never" categories, a change is in order. TAKE TIME TO MAKE TIME Whenever a factory engineer attempts to help the output in less time, he first observes carefully what is being done, makes notes and asks questions. Do not be afraid to use the questioning method. Your answers should be based upon family satisfactions, of course. SUMMARY Years ago, Ellen H. Richards, one of the early pioneers of homemaking education in the public schools, admonished women to control the material things about them, leaving time and energy to make life for their families gracious, worthwhile, and enjoyable. Time is a precious commodity. Let us conserve it. TO DISCUSS Name some household tasks which you wish to do a certain LESSON DEPARTMENT way, even though they consume more time. State your reasons. (A case in point might be careful and conventional setting of the table because you feel the aesthetic satisfactions outweigh the extra work.) TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Check the following items and determine if they would add to your kitchen efficiency: 1. Locate equipment at point of first use rather than all like equipment in one place. A kettle requiring water would be located near the sink, its lid near the range. 2. Place supplies and small equipment within sight and reach. You may need to use step shelves, half shelves, racks on cupboard doors, and vertical dividers. 3. Locate items according to frequency of use. 4. Duplicate some items used in more than one location such as measuring cups at both sink and mixing center. Certain jobs seem to steal away your twenty-four hours a day. Select your worst offender (job), apply the questioning method, and in the succeeding weeks try to conquer the problem.

I may not see this land of water, trees, But through her I keep it rich and innocent.
