[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 225 | Poem | On the Mountain | Melba S. Payne]
ON THE MOUNTAIN Melba S. Payne In my youth I well remember, When there was no need to roam, How I thought the world revolved Around my peaceful valley home. Close beside gigantic mountains, Solid grandeur pointing high; Bearing stately pines and aspens Etched against the eastern sky. "On the mountains,'' words familiar, Part of living in our town; Going up for coal or cattle, Going up, or coming down. Before the '"'Powered Buggies' found us, Teams of horses, plodding slow, Delivered us in rumbling wagons Wherever we should choose to go. To the dairy in the glen, Through the toll gate by the creek, Stopping by the Beaver Dam To gaze upon a mountain peak. Then to find our white-topped sheep camp Nestled in the shade of trees. Sour-dough bread and fresh, fried mutton— A cheerful herder cooked us these. These are memories of my mountains Close beside my valley home, And I still go on the mountains x When I feel a need to roam. TODAY IS MINE Helen A. Nielsen Today is here. It is mine to enjoy. This is my most recent gift from a loving Father, and I shall cherish it. Today there may be rain or sunshine; there may be clouds or snow and wind, but, in this day, there are twenty-four hours for me to beautify or tarnish as I see fit. Perhaps I have mortgaged much of this day for washing, ironing, cleaning, and performing tasks. Although my hands are busy, my thoughts need not stay in a pan of soapsuds. I have twenty-four hours in which to think beautiful and constructive thoughts, or I can grovel in self-pity or nourish stray bits of resentment left over from some unhappy moment. Dear God, may I spend this day as I should. May I have a song in my heart, and may I know the exhilaration of learning something new. May I go the extra mile to cheer and to serve. May I know the joy of some challenge met and conquered. May I make - this a star-studded day embellished with the good and the beautiful. May the tomorrows be happier and more meaningful because of the things I put into these hours. May I account proudly to my Maker for each second of this day. And may I acknowledge thee, O God, as the Creator of all that is good. 225 \FROM THE