[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 186 | General Feature | Editorial: The Sustaining Power of Relief Society | Marianne C. Sharp]
EDITORIAL The Sustaining Power of Relief Society mw A husband advised a man whose family had just moved into the ward, ''If you want to have your family integrated, have your wife join Relief Society." The advice was gratefully followed and soon the family members had friends in their peer groups. The mother became a visiting teacher and made friends not only with the sisters who attended Relief Society but also a few who were visited who did not attend Relief Society. The family became a happy integrated part of the ward. The sustaining power of Relief Society in the life of a Latter-day Saint woman was provided by a loving Heavenly Father. As an auxiliary of the Priesthood, its spirit transcends nationalities and cultures. In another ward a Relief Society member gathered into her home those sisters in the ward who had English as a second tongue. Though a few were still unable to understand English, Relief Society had been the means of bringing them together in loving bonds.. A sister who had lived in a ward only a short time when her husband passed away, was only able to mingle with so many strange people through a Relief Society neighbor calling for her to attend Relief Society meetings, from which she gained strength to attend the sacrament meetings. Sometimes a husband who is not a member of the Church allows his wife to go to Relief Society, whereas he does not want her away from the home on Sunday. The sustaining power which may come to her is incalculable. From the study of the scriptures she receives strength to live more perfectly day by day. From the Teaching the Gospel in the Home lessons, she receives suggestions on improving family relationVolume 53 March 1966 ® Belle S. Spafford, @ Marianne C. Sharp, e Louise W. Madsen, @ Hulda P. Young, ships. She may improve in all phases of homemaking and become knowledgeable in the cultural arts. She receives confidence in her everyday living and the strength to interest her husband through the power of her sweet example. One such sister prevailed upon her husband to attend a sacrament meeting at which the Singing Mothers were performing. The warm friendliness of other families was the means through which Home Teachers were allowed to call. In time this resulted in the conversion of the husband. The influence of a good woman has no bounds. Nor does the influence of Relief Society in helping to make a good woman better. Relying on the authority which a calling gives a woman gives her the means of accomplishing far greater things than she personally feels able to perform. Wisdom in training children is not the least value learned in Relief Society, and basic to growth is the recognition of the power of the Priesthood and the necessity to be obedient to the advice of a husband, exercised in righteousness. Relief Society teaches women to sustain the Priesthood, which is basic to progression. Relief Society schools the intellect of women. Relief Society trains the skills of women. Relief Society enlarges the souls of women and builds in them a sustaining power to forsake evil and cling to the good. Relief Society was given as a sustaining power to the womanhood of the Church. It is for every Latter-day Saint woman a means of improving herself and bestowing service on others.