Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Panguitch Stake
The accompanying picture is the Henrieville Relief Society of the Panguitch stake. The Relief Society at Henrieville is one of the progressive wards of this stake. Twenty-three members are enrolled and nearly all the women are active in the association. The society has endeavored to give assistance where there has been sickness or need. Meetings have been held regularly and the women have expressed themselves as enjoying and receiving a great benefit from the lesson work. This society has twenty subscribers to the Magazine.
HENRIEVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY
Benson Stake
A pageant, entitled "A Century of Womanhood," was presented by the Relief Society of the Benson stake at Richmond on the Seventeenth of March. About one hundred fifty people took part in the affair, and the Relief Society received many congratulations on this interesting production. After the pageant, the evening was spent in dancing. Every ward in the Benson stake has a Relief Society glee club. The purpose of organizing these glee clubs is to give variety to the meetings, and to cultivate the musical talent of the women. Besides being asked to sing once a month in the Relief Society meeting, they also appear on the programs of various meetings and functions in the wards.

Gunnison Stake
On May 6, 1923, the Gunnison stake, which is a division of the South Sanpete stake, was organized. Ida Swalberg was sustained as president of the Relief Societies of this new stake.
Australian Mission
The president of the Australian mission, Don C. Rushton, in a letter to headquarters, reports that two Relief Societies have been organized in this mission, one at Adelaide, South Australia, with Ellen Watson as president, and another at Hobart, Tasmania, with Julia May Nash as president. President Rushton reports that the mission is progressing satisfactorily, and that the mission, last year, made a great number of friends and converts. Two chapels were built, which speaks well of the growth of the Church in this remote country.
Northwestern States Mission
Mrs. Marie Young, president of the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States mission, reports that her mission is in good condition. The membership of the Relief Society has increased greatly during the last year. The various branches are endeavoring to help alleviate the condition of those in need. They have spent a considerable amount of money caring for those in distress. The funds are usually raised by fairs, parties, and dinners, which are always well patronized. The attendance is good, considering the difficulty the women have in meeting together, for the Saints, even in the larger cities, are somewhat scattered, making it difficult for them to attend the various meetings.
The twentieth anniversary of the Portland Relief Society, which was organized January 18, 1903, by President Nephi Pratt, with only six members, was fittingly celebrated January 18, 1923. Two of the original members, Petrine Westergard and Ida Becker, were present at this anniversary meeting and they both gave interesting talks, reminiscent of the first meetings held by the society. Two pioneer women of Utah, Elizabeth Remington and Rebecca Warren, were also present and spoke of their experiences in Relief Society work in the early days in Utah. Musical numbers also formed part of the program, after which refreshments were served.
Morgan Stake
The Morgan stake Relief Society held its annual conference, Saturday, April 21, 1923, at the stake house. The morning session was divided into two sections, one for the visiting teachers, and the other for the class leaders. In the afternoon, a joint session was held and various phases of Relief Society work were discussed. Special musical numbers were given.
Armenian Mission
A letter has been received from J. W. Booth, who is located in Aleppo, Syria, doing missionary work. He reports that a Relief Society was organized on October 18, 1922, at Aleppo, with about thirty members. It has now grown to a membership of over fifty. The first set of officers, who were fulfilling a temporary appointment, served until March 17, 1923. On this date, a very pleasant afternoon and evening were enjoyed by about one hundred fifty Saints and visitors. A fitting program
OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF ALEPPO, SYRIA
was carried out, which was followed by an enjoyable social. The following Sunday, the officers were honorably released and new officers were sustained, to take the responsibility for another short period. By changing officers occasionally, it gives more women experience in leadership. A picture of the first set of officers is printed herewith. They are, reading from left to

right: Lucy Junguzian, president; Osanna Hindoian, first counselor; Yeranik Gedikian, second counselor; J. W. Booth, (acted as treasurer); Elsia Uzunian, secretary. The present officers are now active in their work, and are enjoying their activity in the Relief Society. In his letter, Brother Booth states that although the women in Aleppo still, in their habits and customs, resemble the characters of the women of the Bible, they are bound to the women of Zion by their faith in the restored gospel.
Ensign Stake
A conjoint conference of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association of the Ensign stake was held in the Assembly Hall, March 10, 1923. Three sessions were held, in the morning, afternoon, and evening. The morning session was conducted by the Primary Association, and President Nellie B. Whitney presided. The aims and purposes of the Primary Association were discussed by various speakers, and a number of Primary children took part on the program. The afternoon session was conducted by President Elise B. Alder of the Relief Society. The afternoon program was prepared by the Relief Society and the various speakers emphasized the need of the auxiliary organizations cooperating so that they would be an aid and benefit to each other. The evening meeting was presided over by Lydia W. McKendrick, president of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the stake. The work of the Mutual Improvement Association was reviewed and the opportunities and advantages that this organization offers to the young Latter-day Saint woman in preparing her for her responsibilities, was emphasized. George H. Wallace of the presidency of the stake, attended all three meetings and he commended the organizations on the spirit of love, unity, and cooperation that exists. In connection with this movement to have the auxiliaries more united in their efforts, and more familiar with one another's groups, a social was given, Wednesday evening, February 21, by the Relief Society of the Ensign stake at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Nelson. The Mutual and Primary boards and their escorts, and a few specially invited members of the Priesthood, were guests. An interesting program was rendered and delicious refreshments were served.
Oneida Stake
A Relief Society has been effected at the Utah Power and Light Company's plant, which is located in Bear River canyon, seventeen miles northeast of Preston. The organization was named Oneida, and will be under the supervision of the bishop of the Riverdale ward. There are eight members enrolled, all of whom are wives of the company's employees. Much inter-
est is being shown by the women of this branch and they are meeting regularly and following the lesson work.
Beaver Stake
A report received at headquarters of the Beaver stake Relief Society shows that this stake is in good condition and is active in all of the various phases of Relief Society. Special effort has been made to increase the average attendance at the regular meetings. The teachers' work has been emphasized and the stake board has endeavored to help the teachers prepare the assigned topics. Subject matter on the teachers' topics has been presented at the monthly Union meetings. Scriptural reading has been an important part of the year's work. The standard Church works have been studied and in the testimony meetings many of the members have commented on the texts read during the month. During the year 1922 nearly ten thousand chapters of scriptural readings were reported at roll call throughout the stake. The Beaver East and West ward Relief Societies recently gave a social in honor of a district school teacher, a non-member of the Church, who has donated two hundred dollars to the charity fund of these two wards in the last two years. During the year a Relief Society was organized at Reed, Utah. Although some of the families live several miles away in the locality, the district teachers have made regular visits to the homes.
IN MEMORIAM
St. George Stake
Mrs. Rosella J. Spilsbury, who since 1900 has been the president of the Relief Society of Toquerville ward, died on December 10, 1922, in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Spilsbury was born at Cedar City, October 22, 1856, and has spent her entire life working for the development of the state and the advancement of the Church. Her experiences in the early days in Utah were both interesting and unique. She learned all the arts of the Dixie pioneer?to card and spin, to pick cotton, to weave cloth for her apparel, and to knit and sew. She also learned telegraphy and was one of the first telegraph operators in southern Utah. She also had musical ability, and was one of the favorite singers in her community. She will be greatly missed by her husband and children, who survive her, and by the entire community, for she had won a place in the hearts of all her associates. She will be remembered as a true friend and her example as a faithful member of the Church will have a continued influence on her great host of friends.
Maricopa Stake
On May 13, 1923, Sarah B. Macdonald passed away in her home in Mesa, after a lingering illness. Mrs. Macdonald was

counselor on the Maricopa stake Relief Society board. She was called to this position in 1914, and she served faithfully in this capacity until the time of her illness and death. She was the mother of eleven children, all of whom, with her husband, Wallace A. Macdonald, survive her. Many expressions of love and esteem were extended to the family. A host of friends from near and far attended the funeral services to pay their last respects to their faithful and true friend. The Relief Society stake board members attended in a group, all dressed in white, and assisted with the services. President Mamie Clark was one of the speakers and paid tribute to the many exceptional qualities possessed by Mrs. Macdonald as a wife, mother, and Church and community worker.
NOTES
Letters for Expectant Mothers
The Bureau of Child Hygiene of the Utah State Board of Health has a set of letters which will be mailed upon request to any expectant mother in the state. There are nine letters in the complete set, and they will be sent, one a month, to the women interested. Each letter contains valuable information and instructions to expectant mothers on their care and on the preparations they should make for confinement and care of the infant.
Nurse Aids Class Begins in August
A new class of Relief Society Nurse Aids will be admitted to the L. D. S. Hospital in August. There is still place for a few girls who are interested in this one-year nurse training course. The course is open to women between the ages of 18 and 35, who have had an eighth grade education or its equivalent. A physical examination and a recommendation from the ward Relief Society president must accompany the application. An application blank will be mailed upon request, together with a circular giving full information and instructions. Address all inquiries to Amy Brown Lyman, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
Nurse Aids Uniforms For Sale
Four nurse dresses and twelve aprons and bibs, size 38 inches bust measure, made for a girl five feet, four inches tall, can be purchased from Mrs. H. O. Post, of St. David, Arizona. The uniforms are nicely made and will be sold at a reduced price?$1.50 each, postpaid, for the gingham dresses, and $15 for the twelve aprons and bibs, postpaid. Any one planning to take the Relief Society Nurse Aids Course who has not yet made her uniforms, might find it to her advantage to communicate with Mrs. Post.