	CHERRY CREEK, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO,
					March 10th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By reading your valued paper, and see-
ing the prosperous condition of the differ-
ent Relief Societies, we thought it in order
to represent ourselves, rather than not be
represented.

[Column 2]
	We have here a Society, presided over by
Mrs. Eleanor Dudley assisted by Mrs. Eliza-
beth Chivers and Mrs. Elizabeth Hunting
as Counselors. We number in all twenty-
one members. Our district extends four or
five miles, part of which is enrolled in Ma-
lad branch. Our Temple donations have
amounted to $140.00, given by thirteen of
our members; we hold our meetings semi-
monthly, and they are well attended. A
sociable and friendly feeling prevails in our
meetings.
	Wishing all the Societies and different
enterprises prosperity, and not forgetting
our own, we remain
	Yours respectfully,
		ELEANOR DUDLEY, President,
			SARAH A. JONES, Secretary.

		ROCKVILLE, March 26th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a very prosper-
ous condition, with the following named
officers:
	Mrs. Amy H. Draper, President,
	"	Maria Smith,			} Counselors.
	"	Margaret Brundage,	}
	"	Fannie P. Slaughter, Secretary,
	"	Hannah Jennings, Treasurer.
	We have been very busy of late prepar-
ing for the brethren and sisters who are
availing themselves of the opportunity of
going into the temple to perform a work for
themselves and their dead.
	When we were called on this Southern
Mission we thought that we were unfortu-
nate indeed, but now we are beginning to
think that we have been highly favored in
being permitted to live near the Temple.
Our Society has donated some towards
building thi[-] Temple, and we are now go-
ing to donate some towards the erection of
the Sanpete Temple.
	I have noticed in the EXPONENT that a
great deal is being done and said with re-
gard to the GRAIN MOVEMENT; I have felt
highly pleased when reading of the success
of the sisters in saving and storing grain,
for I believe it to be a very important step.
We have not commenced doing anything
towards gathering grain yet, but we are be-
ginning to agitate the matter some.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT and every other good under-
taking, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
			FANNIE SLAUGHTER,
						Secretary.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, March 30th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will give you a brief report of the Re-
lief Society in this place. The Society con-
sists of eighty-nine members, and we have
our meetings semi-monthly. We are doing
our best to carry out counsel in the way of
buying wheat; we have bought over one
hundred bushels of wheat already, and we
are exerting ourselves to raise means with
which to buy more. We own $303.00 capital
stock in the Co-op Store, on which we
draw interest. We help the poor, and visit
the sick, and are trying to be more united,
and live our religion to the best of our abili-
ty. We have a good and faithful President
in Mrs. Christine Albertsen, and her Coun-
selors, Mary C. Neely and Anna Hansen,
are faithful co-workers with her; Karen
Christensen is Treasurer.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					MARY HANSEN,
							Secretary.

[Column 3]
	TOKERVILLE, KANE Co., March 2, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy president Mrs.
Elizabeth Kleinman, I address you to in-
form our co-laborers in the kingdom of God
that we are trying to honor our calling as a
Relief Society and do all in our power to
assist the needy and comfort the afflicted
either by word or deed. General good
health prevails here, with the exception of
a few bad colds, which are incidental to this
season of the year.
	We were called to part with one of our
most respected sisters last August, Mrs.
Annie Jackson; she was a dutiful member
in the Society and served as Secretary as
long as her health would permit. She was
greatly esteemed by all who knew her.
	We read the reports of the different or-
ganizations in the settlements STORING
GRAIN, but we have none to store up as
our facilities here do not admit of its pro-
duction; we depend entirely on the north-
ern part of the Territory for breadstuff.
	I am sorry to say we have no Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association organized
yet, but we live in hopes that we may have
ere long. The St. George Temple is now
finished for which we should all feel very
thankful; there are many people going forth
to receive their blessings, which fills our
hearts with joy and gratitude. Our Society
made about forty yards of carpet for the
Temple. Our financial affairs are as follows:
we have a twenty-five dollar share in the
Washington factory, and a thirty dollar
share in this Co-op Store; carpet and cush-
ions which we donated to the meeting house
valued at eight dollars and twenty-five
cents; donated to a needy family, a quilt
valued at seven dollars; to the St. George
Temple twenty-nine dollars; to the Wash-
ington factory, eight dollars and forty
cents; sundries on hand, sixty-nine dollars
and thirty cents; cash on hand, four dollars
and fifty cents.
	We have had refreshing rains lately and
the people are planting their gardens; the
trees are also in bloom.
	Praying for the prosperity of our breth-
ren and sisters in this Latter-day work, I
remain yours etc.
