			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms was one
of special interest. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne told the sisters that their labors were
but just commencing; that the Conference
minutes calling upon them by the unami-
mous vote of that august assembly, to go
into the silk business, was suggestive of
the magnitude of the work before them.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said she hoped
this mission given to the women would be
taken into immediate consideration by ev-
ery one who had at heart the present and
future interest of Zion; she felt it to be a
very important one. In having it conferred
by unanimous vote of the conferense, the
sisters might expect the benefit of the faith
and prayers of this great body of people:
she alluded to the means which had been
used to start the Silk Association, and
the encouragement which had been given
to the people to interest themselves in this
industry; she said that in Brigham City
they were going to have a department in
their Co-operative store for homemade silk,
and if the sisters were energetic in this di-
rection they might all have home made
silks that would be durable. Silk culture
and its present and future success was the
principal subject before the meeting. A
beautiful silk dress pattern which was man-
ufactured from the elements of Farmington
was exhibited; the first silk dress ever
make in Utah. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne then announced to the audience
Bishop Hardy and he addressed the assem-
bly; expressed the pleasnre he felt in meet-
ing the sisters and the improvement which
had been made in many respects during
the last few years; said he had never antic-
pated seeing a silk dress manufactured with-
out machinery; the sister who made the
dress presented it as a voluntary Temple do-
nation; added that it had been purchased (by
Mrs. M. M. Barrett) and the money given to
the Temple, and that lady had given the dress
to Miss E. R. Snow, who he hoped might
by the blessing of God live to wear it out.
A Testimonial or certificate had been neatly
framed and given to Mrs. Clark as a me-
mento of respect for her labors in the silk
business. He spoke of his appreciation of
the Relief Society in his ward. Elder An-
gus M. Cannon arose and said that he had
about the same feeling in arising before
that meeting as he had twenty-two years be-
fore when he addressed a congregation of
lawyers and learned men in a hall in Hart-
ford, Conn. He spoke of his great honor
and reverence for good women; that his
best and noblest feelings had been implant-
ed by his mother; said he realized the sis-
ters had in their keeping the training of
those who were to be the future defenders not
only of this church but of the country.
Miss Snow expressed her thanks and good
feelings to be the recipient of such a gift.
Counselor E. Howard spoke upon dress, ex-
travagance, economy, and the saints living
their religion. Counselor B. W. Smith
make a few remarks upon the tannery, and
Mrs. E. S. Barney upon sericulture and the
straw-hat establishment. The meeting was
one long to be remembered by all present.

