BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD

	"It haunts me still though many a year has fled
		Like some wild melody."
	Always and ever, to the pure minded and
innocent, there is a pleasure in recalling
moments fraught with joy and happiness.
The scenes and remembrances may be of a
simple nature, perhaps of green pastures
or meadows gay with buttercups and cow-
slips, where the merry calves frisked and
gamboled and we, with hearts as light as
these thoughtless animals, participated with
our companions in sports of a scarcely
more exalted phase. Such is human weak-
ness; in looking back it is invariably some
trivial thing that recalls the sweetest and
most delightful associations. A ramble by
moonlight in some charming spot, when
our hearts were the very sanctuary of pure
and innocent feelings, ere we knew the de-
ception of the world, the music of murmur-
ing water, the moonlight upon some old

[Column 2]

ruin, may have so infused its beauty into our
souls as never to be forgotten. The com-
panions of such dear, delicious hours are
usually endeared to us even though we
should be separated from them forever; and
the vision of a face many years forgotten
will come back to us sometimes with won-
derful accuracy of delineation.
	Many are the bright pictures memory
conjures up to illuminate life's pathway,
and God has given us this faculty of call-
ing to remembrance the "light of other
days" to help us to endure our lives with
better grace. Somebody loved us in the
long ago, is the consolation of many a weary
heart, and the rapture of that love still
clings to us, for true love never dies. In
days of loneliness how pleasant it is to
think, we have had friends who loved
us for ourselves, and fully estimated all our
goodness.
	These are echoes that reverberate through
our whole lives if we do not crush them
out, and come back to us again and again,
to comfort us by their silent key notes of
music, which only speak to the inmost heart.
	The voices of little children stir up the
fountains of tenderness in the aged, because
they wake old-time remembrances. Many
curious illustrations have been given of
incidents when the recollection of some epi-
sode in life has been recalled by a similar
sound or sight to that familiar in earlier
days, acting as a spell of enchantment;
showing how susceptible are our natures to
life-long impressions, or that the effects
produced by certain pleasurable emotions
can never be wholly eradicated.
	The memories of the past are the echoes
of the soul; they come to us in our day-
dreams, they float round us in our night
visions, they are clearest in their own pecu-
liar element, as for instance we recall them,
or they haunt us, when some similar spot,
act, or scene is presented. Sometimes we
feel we have brought with us almost inde-
finable echoes of our spirit-life; transient
and exquisite, yet for the moment like a ray
of mellowed sunshine thrilling us as with
a holy touch of joy. Sacred emotions these.
Something almost too sublime to be com-
prehended by mortals. They give us the
finest touches of our being here; they im-
part spiritual grace. They whisper to us of
our divine origin, in the language of the
soul. We are not mere creatures of clay of
a finite nature. These finely-drawn but in-
controvertible truths bespeak the infinite
within us.
	Matter-of-fact people, who must have
tangible things to rely upon for proofs, tell
us these are only fancies. It is a common
way of expressing a gloriously beautiful
subject, but are they not convincing proofs
of the life and love we participated in, be-
fore we tabernacled in the flesh.


DR. Johnson was famous for disregarding
public abuse. When people criticized and
answered his pamphlets, papers, etc., he
would say, "Why, now, these fellows are
only advertizing my book; it is surely better
a man should be abused than forgotten."


Out-door relief—A breath of fresh air.


