HOME AFFAIRS.

	A SPECIAL TRAIN left the city at 6 a. m.,
Friday, April 27th, with a large party of breth-
ren and sisters, to meet President Brigham
Young and company at York. They returned
at half-past one p.m., the party seem univer-
sally to be in good health and excellent spirits.
The Latter-day Saints and the many friends of
President Brigham Young will be glad to know
he arrived at home safe and well. The Presi-
dent has preached several times on the way.
The party spent Sunday at Richfield, where
they held meetings. Presidents Brigham
Young, John W. Young, D. H. Wells, Elders
J. F. Wells and Charles Burton addressed the
congregation. The company arrived at Manti on
Tuesday last. The same afternoon the brethren
visited the hill where it is designed to erect a
Temple and held meeting in the evening. Pre-
sident D. H. Wells and Elders J. F. Wells ad-
dressed the people. Wednesday morning held
meeting again, President John W. Young and
Elder George Gibbs were the speakers. At
noon they repaired to the Temple site, laid off
the ground and dedicated it, President Brigham
Young offered the dedicatory prayer and turn-
ed over the first sod; the company then drove
on as far as Moroni, where they passed the
night, thence direct for home.
	There has been a vast amount of preaching
done during the journey by the First Presidency
the Twelve Apostles and by the young Elders
in the interest of the Y. M. M. I. Association.
The sisters who went south have also spoken in
the Relief Societies in many of the settlements.
There is the same good feeling expressed by
each and every one in referring to the Temple
and the Conference. And to the beloved Pres-
ident of this people and his party we can
heartily say, Welcome, Welcome Home.
	MUSTARD.—The best quality of mustard can
be raised in Utah, it has been satisfactorily test-
ed. The Woman's Commission House would
gladly recommend a good article of homemade
mustard. How absurd for Latter-day Saints to
import thousands of pounds of this article
when a better quality can be manufactured for
home consumption. Brethren and sisters,
raise some mustard and let it be put into the
stores for sale.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre was opened three
nights last week, Miss Adelaide Neilson, cele-
brated for her beauty and dramatic art, per-
formed Juliet in "Romeo and Juliet," Rosa-
lind in "As you like it," and Julia in "The


[Column 1]

Hunchback." Miss Neilson received the
greatest applause from the audiences here, and
her beauty and many attractions win admira-
tion Eastand West. She played with feeling,
her voice is melodious, her manner quiet and
unaffected, her dress magnificent.
	WE RECEIVED through the courtesy of a
friend the first number, issued April 1, of a
new paper established by women. It is called
"Woman's Words" and is to be issued month-
ly in Philadelphia: price $1.00 per year; Mrs.
Juan Lewis, publisher, 625 Walnut Street. It
is designed to promote the interest of women
throughout the United States, without regard
to sect or party: and upon such liberal ground
it cannot fail to meet with hearty appreciation
from those who desire the promotion of uni-
versal good. We find this number contains
much excellent matter, and many items of in-
terest relative to woman's progression in litera-
ture, science and art. It does not affect the
extreme on the woman's rights question, but a
proper and fitting medium upon all the points
discussed in its columns.
	ANNUAL MEETING of the R. A. in the First
Ward, S. L. City. This meeting convened at
the residence of Mrs. Mary W. Musser, April
4, 1877. The financial report of the Society
during three years was read by Mrs. Alice
Fletcher, Treasurer. This report alone, clearly
shows the energy, perseverance and executive
ability of the officers and members, and that
the object of their ambition is a laudable one,
viz., to assist in improving themselves and
others, and help to establish the kingdom of
God upon the earth.
	The meeting was presided over by President
Mrs. Sarah Graham, who has been earnest and
energetic in her endeavors to assist the young
ladies in this good work. Elder J. Booth and
A. Steel both spoke very encouragingly to the
Society, and assured them that a decided im-
provement was manifest in many ways. Mrs.
Marion Chase, President of the Relief Society
of that ward, addressed them in a manner cal-
culated to impress them with the greatness of
the work in which they had enlisted. Allud-
ed to the temporal as well as spiritual matters
which were pending. Mrs. Steel, Schnitar
and Brown and several of the young sisters
expressed themselves on the principles of the
Gospel, the great work now being performed
by women, the necessity of union and the de-
sire they had to do all in their power towards
sustaining home industries and aiding in every
good undertaking. Mrs. Sarah Graham made
some excellent remarks in regard to the oppor-
tunities afforded the young ladies for improve-
ment, expressed great pleasure in being asso-
ciated with them and meeting together and
helping each other. Some business was tran-
sacted, a vote of thank given to the Secretary,
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, and a uni-
versal good feeling pervaded the meeting.
	THE SPECIAL mission given to the Relief So-
cieties by the vote of the Conference, viz.
sericulture, should receive the earliest careful
attention; certainly the first movement to be
made is the arranging to have mulberry trees
grown, sufficient to supply food for large quan-
tities, of worms. It is to be hoped that the
sisters will take hold of this branch of indus-
try with the energy and perseverance they
have proven themselves capable of, when called
upon to undertake anything requiring faith,
prayer and executive ability. Do not be
afraid you will have too much to do; overwork
is not from so much being done, but it is
crowding off until the necessity comes, and
then hurrying; method in the performance of
work is the antidote for this sort of thing.

[Column 2]

When people learn to systematize their labor,
and all concerned in any department will
agree, when there are no idlers who leave their
share of work for another to perform, the aggre-
gate proportion that suffer from over-work will
be greatly reduced. "Hurry and High Press-
ure" are evils to be avoided. If the sisters will
concentrate their efforts (and no doubt they
will) they can accomplish all that can be de-
sired in this direction; for it will not only be a
source of profit, and bring wealth into the
community, but it will be one of the best ave-
nues for true charity, that which gives labor
to the poor, and makes them self-sustaining,
instead of non-producers. Mr. Jennings has,
we understand, donated $200 towards buying
machinery. There has already been consider-
able success achieved through the untiring
perseverance of some of the sisters, and when
the united exertions of thousands are brought
to bear in this direction no doubt the results
will be abundantly satisfactory.


