	PARADISE, CACHE CO., Apr. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Your valuable paper comes regularly to
hand and is a most welcome visitor. For
women I consider it the most useful and
interesting paper published, and think it
should be in the household of every Latter-
day Saint for the wives, mothers and daugh-
ters to read and profit by; and if the male
members read it also it, cannot fail to in-
struct them, for its teachings are the pure
principles of the gospel written by inspira-
tion of the spirit of God. When I reflect
upon the perfect order of the Kingdom of
God, the beauty, harmony and unity of its
various organizations, extending even to
the women, and to the young people of
both sexes, uniting and binding all togeth-
er in one interest, that of both temporal
and spiritual salvation. I often wonder
what more evidence any reflecting mind
can require to substantiate the divine ori-
gin of this work. I take great pleasure in
reading the several reports of the Relief
Societies, in learning of the good which
they have done and are doing, but most es-
pecially was I impressed with reading the
article on STORING GRAIN, republished
from No. 10, not having read it before, as I
did not take the EXPONENT at that time
which was my loss; I fully endorse the in-
instructions given, and shall endeavor to 
carry them out to the best of my ability
as soon as circumstances will permit.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain your sister in the gospel,
	LYDIA B. REMINGTON,
		Prest. R. Society.

	TOOELE, TOOELE Co., March 15, 1877
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	As spring has come we are very busy
putting in the grain and we hope the Lord
will bless us with an abundant harvest, so
that we can fill our bins for a future day.
Brother Micklejohn has kindly given us the
use of one of his wheat bins until we can
get one of our own. The sisters have no-
bly and liberally donated; we have at pres-
ent, over one hundred bushels of wheat,
and with the help of our Heavenly
Father, we will still keep storing it up
for a day to come; and we feel that through
His blessings upon our labors the coming
season, we will be able to more than double
the amount that we now have on hand. We
held a silk meeting on the 10th of the
month, to take into consideration the plant-
ing out of mulberry trees, and to encour-
age the culture of silk for we know that it
will lay the foundation for a good work in
the future, and we know that it is our duty
to do all that lays in our power to help
build up the kingdom.
	I know that this is the true church and
kingdom of God, and that it will never be
thrown down or given to another people;
it will stand forever. It came not from
man nor from the will of man, but from
God our eternal Father, it is His cause and
His work and we must not think that the 
name of a saint is going to save us, for we
will all be judged by the deeds done in the
body. When I think of this it causes my
heart to rejoice and fills me with gratitude
to my Heavenly Father; and I pray that
we may be kept faithful to the end of our
days.
	Success to the EXPONENT and to all good
enterprises.
