	PROVO, APRIL 11, 1877.
EDITOR EPXONENT:
	It becomes my sad duty to acquaint your
readers that death has taken from our ranks
one of the noblest women that have graced
our society with their presence, in the
death of Mary Ann (Yeager) Whipple of
this city: deceased was born Nov. 1, 1822,
in Philadelphia Penn., received the gospel
June, 1844, in Philadelphia, emigrated to
Utah in 1850, was married the same year
to Edson Whipple, they assisted in the set-
tlement of Iron County with Prest. George
A. Smith's Company in 1852; after helping
to establish the new settlement there, they
removed to Provo where she resided filling
the position of first Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Societyof the Second Ward
until her death which occurred March 26th
1877 from incipient Small Pox and erysipi-
las, together with consequent nervous ex-
citement in attending her husband's son
Heber, through his illness. Sister Whip-
ple was one of the heroines of the small af-
fairs of life, who pass unnoticed, but the
self sacrifice and devotion to duty, made
her truly beloved and respected by all who
were acquainted with her virtues, her
death under the attending circumstances of
the infectious disease, precluded the paying
of respect by the usual gathering for funer-
al services, * but on the night appointed
for the removal of her remains to their si-
lent resting place, by the side of her hus-
band's son, there were many wakeful ears,
upon which the noise of the wheels of the 
hearse fell with mournful sound, and many
tears fell at the sad and dreary parting with
one so esteemed and worthy of the love of
those her friends who mourned her loss, but
yet comforted with the knowledge that the
Father of all, will not overlook this our sis-
ter when he makes up His jewels, but will
recompense her for all her self sacrafice and
toil during her probation here.
	Deceased leaves four children to mourn
her loss, one, William M. Whipple, is assist-
ing in the settlement of Arizona.
	Respectfully,
	M. WRIDE, Sec.
		Second Ward R. S.
	The City authorities with their board
of health, together with our city Marshal,
J. W. Turner, are entitled to the thanks
and commendations of our citizens for their
prompt and decisive action in keeping the
disease from spreading further among our
community.

