		REVERIES OF A WOMAN.

					"These can lie,
	Flatter and swear, deprave, inform,
	Smile and betray: make guilty men, then beg
	Their forfeit lives, to get the livings; cut
	Men's throats with whisperings; sell to gaping suitors
	The empty smoke that flies about a palace."

	Perchance some one reads this title and
apostrophizes thus: O, some love tale long past,
recalled by a winter's fire to amuse the fancy.
You never were mere mistaken, dear reader.
Women's reveries are often prophetic as well
as their dreams, and there is more in them
than some people give them credit for know-
ing. But to come back to the subject. "The
times are out of joint" so it would seem, as
much now as when Shakespeare lived (and
Shakespeare lives to-day mere truly than many
living men) for men rave madly of blood and
ruin and desolation, without counting the
cost. It would be wiser if THEIR reveries
were more sober. Assuredly they must be
dreaming. When men concoct schemes of
ruin and desolation they should consider
the fearful consequences.
	It is not a trifling matter to seek to disfran-
chise a vast body of people, whose worst fault
is that they have been prospered and become a
power in the land; who have wrested the desert
lands from their barrenness, and by assiduous
toil have overcome almost superhuman difficul-
ties. Driven out from civilization, the Latter-
day Saints crossed the sandy plains amidst
savages and wild beasts, women and children
too, encountering every peril with the courage
and heroism of those Pilgrim Fathers whose
descendants many of them were, and for what?
That they might seek out an abiding place,
where, free from molestation of their enemies,
they might dwell in peace and gather around
them their families, and teach their children
the laws of God, and the commandments of
heaven as revealed to them. These are their
offences. For these things they are now ar-
raigned by self-styled judges, who condemn
them to the severest penalties of the law, and
beseech Congress with ten thousand lies in
their mouths to wipe out this Mormon people,
if it must be done at the point of the bayonet.
	Gentlemen, if such you be, if you have hu-
man blood in your veins, by all that you hold
sacred, stop, before you go further. Why do
you seek the lives of this people? What would
you with them? Have you not come here and
found homes? Have you any injustice to com-
plain of at the hands of this people, whom you
so foully abuse and misrepresent? Why are
you here? Was there not room for you in oth-
er states and territories? Was there not scope
for your marvelous imaginations? If this peo-
ple are so low, so miserable, so degraded, why

[Column 2]
did you come? They were happy without you;
this city was not defiled with the many curses
which infest it now, ere you came. This peo-
ple were abundantly capable of maintaining
themselves and opening up continually new
facilities and industries; their homes were the
abodes of peace and coutentment; their chil-
dren were taught to reverence God and not pro-
fane His holy name. How is it to-day, under
the influence of the outside element, of the
civilization of the nineteenth century? Very
different indeed.
	The Mormons left their homes in Ohio, in
Missouri, in Illinois; they bid adieu to their
friends, and for their religion traversed the
desert wilds, giving up all they had heretofore
held dear in the world, They planted towns
and villages on their way, that have since
grown and flourished and been converted into
homes for thousands of people. They came to
this barren, desolate country, where no white
man had ever lived, came here with their little
helpless ones, and commenced anew. Women
and children will not hold their peace and see
their rights again jeopardized. The voice of
woman will be lifted against you who are seek-
ing their destruction. Let them alone, leave
them to themselves. Far better would it be for
you to hide your heads in shame, and seek in
all humility to make reparations for the wrongs
already done this people, than to seek to stir
up strife and hatred against them. What class
of men are ye that are thus howling and rag-
ing? "Verily the heathen rage and the people
imagine a vain thing." Are ye men who fear
God, and dare to talk of ruin and blood to wo-
men and innocent children.
	"Vengeance is mine saith the Lord," have
you forgotten these words, or do you not ac-
knowledge the words of God? Remember that
in this day and age it is so ordained, that wo-
men speak and represent their own cause. The
women of Utah are abundantly able to repre-
sent the cause they have espoused, and they
will, and who shall hinder them? The Mor-
mon women have been misrepresented, and
have suffered reproach and calumnies without
having the means to contradict them; but now,
thanks to the liberality of the age as regards
woman, she is permitted to have a voice in her
own affairs and represent her own cause. The
Mormon women are the ones who are engaged
in solving some of the most intricate social and
moral problems, and it would be wise if the
world could have the patience to wait and see
the result.
	The Mormon women trust in God, they have
implicit faith in His promises; they are sincere
and earnest in living practical lives, they are
capable of great self-sacrifice; they believe Gcd
has spoken, and, true to the divinity of their
natures, they are ready to honor Him and
obey His commandments.
	How mistaken the world are, when they rep-
resent Mormon women in bondage to men.
There is no greater freedom than the Gospel
gives to woman. And it is this that makes
Mormon women conscious of their power.
They have suffered and become strong; expe-
rience has matured them, and given them a
higher order of attainment than a mere men-
tal education. Have not the enemies of this
people caused suffering enough to women and
children? Have not the hardships already en-
dured in times past, the recital of which has
often brought tears from the eyes of strangers,
given you sufficient evidence that you cannot
eradicate from this people the principles for
which they have endured so much? Let them
alone; if they are wrong, time will eventually
show them the error; if they are right, how
vain are all your efforts. The charity which

[Column 3]
the Saviour taught would not admit of this
bitter spirit of animosity.
	God is for the weak: He defends the innocent.
He will not suffer those who trust in Him to
be dismayed; besides He has set up His king-
dom never to be thrown down. The women
are the majority in the land; they will not let
their claims to justice and the rights of citizen-
ship be ruthlesly set aside. God is for woman: he
ever has been; Jesus revealed Himself to woman
after His resurrection. Woman in this age has
suffered much, and, like unto Sarah, some have
given to God in sacrifice their heart's best offer-
ing, and God will remember them. Cease to per-
secute the saints of God, for if you do not God
will come out from His hiding-place and will
vex the nations. You think the Mormons an
insignificant body of people; they are mighty
in spirit, and their women are united in one
grand solid phalanx to help build up Zion, to
sustain their own institutions, educational and
social, and wo be to him who dares to lift his
hand against Zion.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


