SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	IT is said that the United States Weather
Bureau is ahead of any in the world in the
accuracy of its forecasts.

	ANOTHER cure running race with that of
blue glass, is now doing wonderful work
in France. It is termed the metallotherapy
and electric homoepathy: it consists of the
application of metallic plates or cylinders—
gold, copper, or iron. It is stated some
very remarkable cures of paralysis have
been affected.

	Scientists assert that a system of tele-
graphy originated long since in Africa
among the negroes; it has been in opera-
tion from time immemorial on the west
coast of Africa in Cameroons county. The
instrument is called the "illeembic," and
through sounds produced upon striking it,
the natives converse across miles of Terri-
tory with ease and fluency as if standing
face to face, the noises constituting a com-
plete language, as intelligible to the opera-
tor as speech. The method is telephonic
and the signals are read by sound and not 
sight.

	THE great engineer of the Suez, M. De
Lesseps, made a calculation in regard to
turning the great Desert of Sahara into a
sea, a manufactured ocean. The French
marines discussed the matter, and consider-
able excitement was caused by it. Time,
however, has elicited a cooler calculation,
and Prof. Maury (who is, we believe, con-
sidered an authority on such questions)
says it "would not impoverish the seas
proper, no more than a man is impoverished
by a dollar dropped into the contribution
box." Science waits the "denouement."

	SCRIBNER'S Monthly describes a new
form of gas stove, designed to give warm
fresh air to a room, and provide for getting
rid of the products of combustion by means
of the chimney. It consists of two upright
cylinders, enclosed one within the other;
the outer cylinder is open at the bottom,
and is connected by means of a pipe with
the chimney. The inner cylinder is con-
nected at the bottom with a fresh air box or
pipe, and takes air from out-of-doors, and is
open at the top. The gas is burned in the
outer cylinder, and serves to heat both the
outer walls and the inner cylinder, through
which air is drawn from out of-doors, and
sent warmed into the room."


