SUPERFLUOUS MEN.
	I claim no originality for my caption.  It
was suggested, of course, by Mrs. Liver-
more's "Superfluous Women," but aside
from the qualifying adjective, her "Super-
fluous Women" and my "Superfluous Men"
have nothing in common.
 The world would be the loser if those su-
perfluous women, mostly earnest, helpful
workers in the quiet walks of life, should
suddenly drop out of it, while the men, I
have in mind, are superfluous not on ac-
count of their number, but their character,
they are superfluous in the sense that they
are useless, a hindrance rather than a help
to society and the world would be better oft
without them.
 1. Of these I will mention first the loaf-
ers.  This is a large class comprising many
grades from the tramp to the genteel loafer
who belongs to a club and smokes the best
Havannas, but they all have the same gen-
eral characteristics.  They are lazy, they
have no visible means of support and like
the man who, being brought before the Po-
lice Court and interrogated as to his busi-
ness, replied that his wife was a dress-mak-
er, a large number are dependent on hard-
working, self-sacrificing wives, mothers and
sisters. They twirl their canes and their
mustaches they gossip, they flirt, they ex-
pectorate, they stand on the street corners,
they frequent drinking saloons, and all
places of high and low resort, they gamble,
they bet, they talk politics, they vote (oh
yes early and often), but their one distin-
guishing characteristic is, their aversion to
any kind of honest industry.  According
to all rules of political economy this large
class of non-producers are entirely superflu-
ous.  They add nothing to the wealth or
well-being of the nation but stand outside
all its great needs and interests.
 2.  Habitual liquor drinkers and confirmed
drunkards.  While there is life there is
hope is doubtless true of drunkards as of
invalids, but it seems to require almost a
miracle to eradicate the appetite for strong
drink when once firmly established.  Think
of the demoralizing influence of this loath-
some mass of humanity, the misery of
wives and families, the poverty, the desti
tution, the crime, the little children continu-
ally brought into being by these wretched
fathers to inherit their morbid appetites
and diseased constitutions!
 3.  Closely allied to these are the licen-
tious, the debauchees, the moral lepers of
community, whose touch is pollution whose
breath is pestilential and who, besides their
every day pernicious influence are entail-
ing upon future generations the horrible
results of their vicious lives.
 If the first class mentioned are superflu-
ous these are far worse.  The first may be
compared to barnacles on the ship of state
—the last two are leeches drawing the life-
blood from the social body and poisoning
the whole circulation; taken together, they
are the drags and dregs of our civilization.
Could they all be suddenly blotted out of
existence by a series of discriminating
earthquakes or accidents, what an incubus
would be removed from society how would
the atmosphere be purified, and progress
and reform make giant strides towards a
millennial age!
	4.Again, there is a multitude of blatant
pot-house politicians, demagogues and of-
fice-seekers, filibusters and the like who
are a superfluity in the body politic.  Could
we be rid of them also, we should speedily
have a united and prosperous people, an
unexceptionable civil service, a model Re-
public and a modern Utopia with all the
modern improvements including Impartial
Suffrage!
					A. E. DICKENSON. 
Woman’s Journal.


