	KANOSH, MILLARD Co.,
		April 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	On the 20th of last month we were visit-
ed by some of the sisters who were on their
way to St. George, and we had a very in-
teresting meeting, which was open to all,
and there was a good attendance.
	The meeting was called to order by the
President, Mrs. Adelia Kimball, and after
the usual exercises Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly; she spoke of the
Relief Society Organization in Nauvoo;
gave us the order of its arrangement and
said that it was organized for the benefit of
the poor, and those that required aid. Said
the Releif Societies should at all times be
willing to administer to the wants of those
who were suffering and required comfort
and sympathy, but be sure that sympathy
was given in the proper way. Be sure and 
have the Spirit of God at all times, and
then counsel would be given wisely. En-
treated the sisters to refrain from speaking
evil of each other, to be careful how they

[Column 3]

talk before their children, as their minds
are young and they remember the teachings
of their mothers; to cultivate a spirit of
kindness and forgiveness. She spoke of 
the EXPONENT and hoped the sisters would
encourage the taking of it, as it was good,
wholesome reading. Hoped the sisters
would not speak against the principle of
plural marriage, as those in it could scarce-
ly realize the blessings they are in posses-
sion of, and they knew nothing of the out-
sidworld, if they did they would not 
suffer themselves to talk against it. Spoke
of the necessity of becoming self-sustain-
ing, and entreated her sisters in every
way possible to sustain and manufacture all
they could. In regard to the silk culture,
it was now time to plant out the cuttings of
mulberries; showed some silk specimens
produced in the north. Spoke of the pure-
ness of our silk in compaaison to that in-
termixed with other trash, which was
manufactured abroad. Said we all had the
art and capacity to make ourselves self-sus-
taining and a source of wealth to other
countries; hoped the people would take an
interest in the silk culture; spoke of the 
expense President Young had incurred in
assisting to start this branch of home indus-
try, and thought the sisters should take an
interest in it. Spoke on the Grain Move-
ment, and of obedience. She also made
some remarks on the Woman's Book now
in the press, which was written by the
man who wrote the "Life of Brigham
Young;" hoped the sisters would patronize
it. Spoke to the young boys on temper-
ance, exhorting them to abstain from to-
bacco and liquor, and to aim high, cultivate
their minds, and if they would remain
faithful could attain to greater excellence
and power eventually than Queen Victoria's
children. She represented the advantages
arising to the young girls from the Re-
trenchment Organizations, and that all
should endeavor to carry out the counsel of
the servants of God.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards said she always had
a testimony to bear, and if we lived up to 
the principles taught us we would always
have something good to say. She thought
outside of the Gospel there was no pleasure.
Spoke upon faith in cases of sickness, and
said the Saints should never be without
consecrated oil; told them not to run after
doctors, but to exercise their faith; spoke
of the good things that had been said dur-
ing the day, and added that if we could
only remember them we would be more apt
to do our duty.
	Mrs. Young then spoke of the Woman's
Commission Store in Salt Lake City, said
the home industry was represented there;
invited the sisters to visit it, it was OUR
store—the Sisters of Zion's store—and hoped
the sisters would help the President of the 
Kanosh Relief Society.
	Mrs. Marian Pratt made a few very in-
teresting remarks in conslusion.
	We had a splendid time and a good spirit
prevailed. Our Society is improving and 
all the sisters seem anxious to do their duty.
With regard to the Grain Movement, the 
sisters have truly done what they could;
those who had no wheat put in molasses
and corn and flour and peaches, and some
has already been exchanged for wheat. By
this means we hope to get in a considerable
amount of grain. We are always pleased
to read so many good reports in the EXPO-
NENT, and especially with regard to the
Grain Movement. The sisters in the Re-
lief Societies have really manifested an
earnest zeal, which does them great credit.
We are having quite an early spring in this
part of the Territory; everything seems


forward; the peach trees are in full bloom
and if the frosts only keep off, there will be
a great quantity of fruit.
 Praying the Lord will bless all the efforts
of His faithful saints, I remain,
Your sister in the gospel of peace,
                              A, PAXTON,
                              Secretary.


