			ASSOCIATIONS.

	It is a difficult matter to have some under-
stand the nature of our Retrenchment Asso-
ciations. A young lady remarked to me the
other day that she did not see what benefit it
was, for those who attended the meetings did
not retrench.
	Let us reflect a few moments. Is there noth-
ing we need to retrench except our dress? Let
us examine our minds, morals and principles,
our daily life, the object of our being here upon
the ea[-]th, and see which needs our attention
most.
	God says in a revelation, given Dec. 27, 1832,
37th paragraph, page 106, Doctrine and Cove-
nants:  "Therefore cease from all your light
speeches; from loud laughter; from all your
lustful desires; from all your pride and light-
mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
		See that you love one another.
Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to
find fault one with another; cease to sleep
longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early,
that ye may not be weary; arise early, that
your minds may be invigorated; and above all
things, clothe yourelves with the bonds of
charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of
perfectness and peace; pray always, that ye
may not faint until I come."
	It is our duty and privilege to have pure and
intelligent minds. It is necessary then to learn
of the things of God, to store our minds with
useful knowledge, to think and reflect what is
His will concerning us. Are we aiding our
fellow creatures? Are we cultivating purity,
charity, benevolence and those virtues which
are essential to our happiness and which will
fit us for the high and responsible positions we
may be called to fill? Are we sincere and val-
iant in doing the will of God? Can we see any
good resulting from our actions and words?
Are we seeking to live daily the covenants we
have made? Do we love one another? Are
we retrenching from our light-mindedness and
light speeches? Are we seeking to know of
the will of the Lord concerning us? Do we
seek the society of those who are pure and up-
right? Do we daily retrench from what we
may consider small evils? If we have not
gained this perfectness we certainly are, in
these societies, seeking to gain it. I would say
to those who do not attend our meetings, and
who make such remarks, that we wish to pro-
gress step by step; to gain knowledge, be char-
itable, cultivate amiable dispositions, intelli-
gent, pure minds, good morals and principles,
be practical and obedient and improve the


time given us here. These are the robes we
are seeking to invest ourselves in-these are 
the noble objects of our Retrenchment Asso-
ciations.
							M. H.


