NOTES AND NEWS.

	MME. BONAPARTE, who resides in Balti-
more, is now in her ninety-fourth year. She
has often expressed an ardent desire to live
until she had completed a century, and
present appearances indicate that she may.

	MISS C. A. Bassett a lady of education
and enterprise has established an Educa-
tional Bureau in Des Moines Iowa, The na-
ture of it is an educational exchange
through the mediumship of which teach-
ers may find engagements and school-offi-
cers may find teachers and Institute in-
structors.	Ex.
	MRS. Gillespie, president of the Wo-
mans Executive Committee, at a meeting
recently held in Philadelphia, said that the
entire expense of running the Woman’s
Pavilion was paid by women, and she only
regretted that they had not engaged a lady
architect to make the plan and superin-
tend the building. The expense of get-
ting up the shows at the opening and clos-
ing of the exhibition was also paid by the
ladies.—Ex.

	THE EASTERN war question still remains
unsettled, no negotiations for peace having
had any salutary effect. There are so many
conflicting reports that it is scarcely possi-
ble to form a correct idea upon the subject
at all; and at present the result is not with-
in the power of man to determine. It is
said that the relations of Russia with
America are altogether of a peaceable char-
acter. The Sultan in speaking of the Rus-
sian attitude towards Turkey is reported to
have said, “Political and financial reasons
exist demanding a termination of the pres-
ent intolerable position of uncertainty."

	JUDGING FROM the newspaper notices of
President Hayes and wife, one would be
inclined to think that a decided change in
many things would be effected by their
good but quiet example. “President Hayes
abstains from the use of all intoxicating
drinks." Then the people will assuredly
have sober decisions; and his influence
will be felt for good wherever he presides
in public, or social circles. If Mrs. Hayes
persists in dressing plainly, she will deserve
the gratitude of all good people, for her ex-
ample will in process of time make a de-
cided change in the tide of fashion, and let
us hope she will be able to settle the much-
vexed question of woman's extravagance
in dress, for the popular party.

	THE REV. Robert Collyer of Chicago, re-
cently delivered a lecture entitled “Clear
Grit.” It was in the interest of the Hos-
pital for the Cure of Chronic Diseases. One
point he said he could speak upon with au-
thority, was “that it was better to work ten
hours a day in making horseshoes, and
making good ones, than to dawdle through
the week and preach a poor sermon on Sun-
day.” He went on to summarize his ad-
dress under four heads, which he said "were
the unmistakable evidences of pure grit.”
To be able to work honestly and well; to
marry young; to raise a large family with
God’s help; and then to persevere and be
contented.


