WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		183


[Column 1]
			MOUND FORT, March, 8th 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The Mound Fort Relief Society was or-
ganized with twenty-six members, on the
29th of January, 1874, by Miss E. R. Snow,
assisted by Mrs. Zina D. Young, of Salt
Lake City, and Mrs. Jane S. Richards of
Ogden. The Society now numbers thirty-
seven.
	We hold semi-monthly meetings which,
considering our scattered condition, are
well attended. The sisters feel well, take
an interest in all matters of a public and 
general nature, which tend to the develop-
ment of good, rejoice in talking to each
other on the principles of the gospel, and 
delight in devising means and laboring to
assist the poor, and to build up the kingdom
of God.
	Our Financial Report up to January 29,
1877, shows the following:
Receipts in cash, merchandise, and
	sundry articles.............................. $87.27
Disbursements.....................................   62.59
On hand................  ..............................    24.68
	Towards purchasing silk machinery sev-
eral sisters have subscribed, in the aggre-
gate $7.00, and they intend to make up
their respective amounts to $5.00 shares.
	The EXPONENT is taken by quite a num-
ber of our Society, and read with great in-
terest. Ever praying the Lord to bless
you in your labors, we remain
		Your sisters in the Gospel
		Susan Moore, President,
		Mary Farr,		} Counselors.
		Annie Taylor,	}
		Annie D. Taylor, Secretary,
		Mary C. Barker, Treasurer.

		BOUNTIFUL, March 31, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is now some time since you heard from
us so I thought a few lines would not be out
of place. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young, E. S. Barney, and Presindia Kim-
ball, visited us last fall; they spoke on the
truths of the Gospel and home manufacture;
showed the necessity of sustaining all
branches of home industry so that we may
become a self-sustaining people, and when
Babylon falls, we may not be left without
resources. They brought a good spirit in
in our midst, since then our meetings have
kept on increasing, and the spirit of God
has been with us; we have been greatly
blessed in many ways; we have been able
to put the roof on our Relief Society Hall,
and have also got the flooring laid, so that
we can have the use of it. We are endeav-
oring to carry out President Young's coun-
sel, by STORING GRAIN; the sisters seem to
have the spirit of their mission, and have
freely responded to the call made of them.
We are also interested in the silk culture
and hope to see a great many trees set out
this spring, and some silk worms raised;
we are having a ribbon loom made which
will soon be ready for use, hoping that it 
will be an inducement to the sisters to raise
the silk.
	I wish to say a word in favor of the 
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association.
They have a faithful president in Mrs. Su-
san Grant, and hold their meetings every

[Column 2]
two weeks. They are now editing a paper
called the Young Ladies Companion, which
is both instructive and interesting; they 
also read good selections when they assem-
ble together, and most of them seem to
take great interest in this Latter-day work,
and are faithful in attending their meet-
ings. 
		Yours &c.,
