ABOUT THE "LITERATI."

	SCRIBNER & Co. announce for the com-
ing season, a monograph upon Charlotte
Bronte including letters by her which have
never before appeared in book form.
	MRS. Macguid will shortly publish a ser-
ies of papers to be designated "Among the
Yorkshire Abbeys:" they will appear in one
of the English magazines.
	How literary men and women write their
books and study is always a matter of inter-
est: here is a sketch of some noted authors.
Mr. Trollope asserts that he does all his
writing before breakfast. Mr. Tom Taylor
that all his literary work was performed be-
fore official hours in the morning. H. J.
Byron says he only writes two hours in a
day, but he takes credit for thinking a
great deal. Mr. Hepworth Dixon literally
writes from morning to night. George El-
liot is at her desk from six to seven hours a
day.Mrs.Henry Wood writes every day until
dinner time. Farjeon, on being asked "how
many hours a day he wrote," replied "all
the time" which is asserted to be very
nearly true. The late Lord Lytton said
that in two hours daily great things in lit-
erature might be done. Scott never on his
working days wrote less than four or five
hours, and he always sat down to his desk
primed. There was no affectation of lei-
sure about the authors of Pendennis and
David Copperfield, aud Belzac would lock
himself up for weeks together and wrote
hour after hour at a stretch. Miss Braddon
has been in the habit of writing from ten
to sixteen hours a day, a couple of years
ago her labor was so incessant that it turned
her brain and she had to lay down her pen
for many months in the middle of a novel.
		Ex.
	HERBERT Spencer's opinion of George
Eliot is that she is "the greatest woman
that ever lived."
	"THE Two Americas," is the title of a
new book by Major Sir Rose Lambert Price
Bart. The critics denounce the book as an-
ti-republican in the strongest sense, and
abounding in slang which is decidly unbe-
coming to the British aristocracy. Here is
a sample of his sentiments. "To universal
suffrage all the existing ills in all existing
republics, can be distinctly traced."


Good nature is the best feature in the finest
face. Wit may win admiration, judgment
command respect, knowledge attention,
beauty inflame the heart with love, but
good nature has a more powerful effect, it
adds a thousand attractions to the charms
of beauty, and gives an air of beneficence
to the homliest face.


