EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. I. C. MANCHESTER of Providence,
R. I., is expected to arrive here on Satur-
day July 3, and will remain a day or two.
Mrs. Manchester is President of the Nation-
al Association of Loyal Women of American
Liberty. It will be her first visit to Utah,
though some of our sisters have made her
acquaintance in the East. She is expected
to deliver an address while here, in some
large hall.
	MISS ELLIS SHIPP, a student of the
University of Utah, received the highest
honor in mathematics this year. The
young girl is sixteen years of age and is
the daughter of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, so
well and favorably known in Utah, and
who graduated from the Woman’s Medical
College in Philadelphia, Pa., in 1878.
We congratulate the young lady on her
success, and have in her case another in-
stance of the girls surpassing the boys.
	THE Trans-Mississippi Commercial Con-
gress will open here in the Assembly Hall
on the 14th day of July, and then, and be-
fore and after, the city will be crowded with
strangers. The women’s clubs in this city
are making ready to show the ladies of the
party every attention possible to make them
feel happy and welcome while they so-
journ here. These people will be from dif-
ferent parts of the United States, and are
business men of known reputation which
should be an inducement to those who have
the matter in hand to furnish reliable in-
formation and people to give it, who know


what Utah is, its past and present and
something of its future prospects under
favorable conditions.
	THE sisters of the Relief Society in the
Fourteenth ward of this city celebrated the
birthday of their President, Sister Maria
W. Wilcox, in a very fitting manner on
Thursday June 17, at her residence. Con-
gratulations poured in upon her and gifts
of flowers and other souvenirs of the day,
as well as an elegant birthday cake and the
daintiest refreshments. But above all and
without doubt what she prized most was
the spirit of love and good will that was
manifest towards her and in appreciation of
her labors. The officers of the Society in-
vited some of Sister Wilcox’s particular
friends outside of the ward, Sisters Z. D.
H. Young, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells, E.
Webb, A. E. Neal, C. S. Thomas and
others; there were perhaps fifty or more.
During the gathering Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, who is her brother, came and made a
congratulatory speech although he could
not remain long. Elder S. W. Richards
and wife who have recently returned from
the East, (where Brother Richards was
presiding over the Conference) were present,
also another of her brothers, Elder H. P.
Richards and wife. Many of those who
spoke of Sister Wilcox also alluded to its
being the birthday anniversary of another
veteran woman who was present, Sister
Julia C Howe, who also came in for a
share of the praise and honor. We con-
gratulate both these good sisters wishing
them long life, peace and every blessing.


