BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY.

	The anniversary of President Young’s
birthday was celebrated under the auspices
of the Young Family Association at the
famous Lion House in this city, Tuesday,
June 1. The grand old parlor and hall
were profusely decorated with stars and
stripes, and with beautiful flowers, and
portraits large and small of Brigham Young
were hung in conspicuous places and draped
with national colors and with small flags in
the most picturesque fashion; there was
also here and there a bust of President
Young, and these additional features gave
character to the rooms and to the gathering.
The party was composed almost exclusive-
ly of the wives and descendants of Presi-
dent Young himself, with a few of his
brothers wives and their children, and
some particular friends.
	There was a little delay in opening the
exercises which had been arranged by a
committee of the sons and daughters, as
President Wilford Woodruff was expected,
but when word came that he did not feel
quite able to attend, the program opened
with Captain Willard Young, Master of
Ceremonies, as Apostle Brigham Young,
the eldest son (who has recently been very
ill) was scarcely strong enough to pre-
side. The assembly joined in singing,
“We thank Thee O, God for a Prophet,”
and an eloquent prayer was offered by
Bishop H. B. Clawson. President Lorenzo
Snow made the opening address which con-
tained an earnest appeal to all present, but
especially to the family of President Young
to officiate in the ordinances for the dead in
the house of the Lord, to live lives of devo-
tion to the work for which he whom they
met to honor and reverence today had lived
and had died, leaving the inheritance of
this work to be done by his posterity.
	Apostle Brigham Young made a feeling
address which contained many old-time rem-
iniscences, and was full of affectionate
interest for all.
	Song “O, My Father,” by R. C. Easton
in his inimitable rendering, Spencer Clawson
Jun. playing the accompaniment; piano
solo, Spencer Clawson; song, Lulu Moore;
“Many happy returns of the day;” read-
ing (Humorous) Master Frank Fenton
Young; song “Mona,” by R. C. Easton,
a most exquisite melody; piano duet,
Emmie and Lyle Yeung; verbal report of
the Young Family Association, Susa Y.
Gates; song Lula Moore, “Hearts and
Homes;” recitation Miss Frankie Young,
written by Mrs. R. E. Monch, title, Brigham
Young; address, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young;
Negro song in dialect with mandolin, Alice
Clawson—followed by an encore; song,
“Tit for Tat,” Nellie Brown; Lulu Gates
piano solo and song “The Garden of
Sleep,” also a Kanaka song; recitation,
Zebulon W. Jacobs, words by Elder C. W.
Penrose on the death of Brigham Young.
After the program delicious refreshments
were served and conversation of a reminis-
cent character generally was indulged in.
One particular feature of the day was the
singing of the old song “Twenty Years
Ago,” by about twenty of the daughters
and grand-daughters of the President.
This was considered appropriate on account
of its having been the twentieth anniver-
sary since the day was celebrated last by
the President himself, June 1, 1877.
	There is no place in Salt Lake City per-
haps of a more historic character than the

