MRS. GARRETT’S PARTY.

	THERE was a very pleasant gathering of
brethren and sisters at the home of Elder
Geo. B. Wallace in this city on the after-
noon of Thursday June 10, the occasion
being the birthday of his daughter, Mrs.
Mary E. Garrett. The rooms were
fragrant with the odor of June roses and
their beauty was a delight to gaze upon.
Sister Garrett is very fond of old ladies and
she had quite a number invited to her
party which was a very enjoyable affair.
Brother Wallace was very entertaining and
gave us many reminiscences of his first
season in the valley in 1847. Sisters Susan
Grant and Melissa Lambson, both pioneers
of 1847, helped with their remembrances of
those times and it was exceedingly interest-
ing though rather sad to hear of the hard-
ships through which the people passed at
that time. Sister Ann E. Browning of
Ogden, one of the guests, came in with the
handcarts and their hardships too were
talked of, and with a number who came in


1848, and all adding a little of the early
day experiences made the conversatson
quite graphic. However there were some
charming young people as well as older
ones and they gave us some fine music.
Gwendolyn Lewis and Hattie Wallace
rendered in sweet strains the song “Come
to me.” also “O my Father,” and later
on ‘‘The New Jerusalem” and “Tirzah’s
Serenade,” and some other melodies.
	The five o’clock tea or supper was a
very elaborate affair and elegantly served,
ice cream and ices, strawberries, cherries and
other fruits for dessert after a variety of
substantial dishes, and withal more items
of early days. Besides the names already
mentioned there were present Sisters Sarah
M. Kimball, Rachel Grant, Jane Hodgett,
Amanda Kimball, Martha Wallace, Sarah
Davis, Julina L. and Alice K. Smith,
Elizabeth McDonald, Martha Perkins,
President Jos. E. Taylor and wife, Brother
Wm. Spicer, George B. Wallace Jun. and
wife and some others. Mrs. Garrett re-
gretted very much the absence of President
Jos. F. Smith and Sisters Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith who had
been expected. The visit was in every
respect a happy one, and Sister Garrett re-
ceived many congratulations and good
wishes for future happiness and prosperity,
in which the EXPONENT heartily joins,
wishing her many happy returns of the
day.


