A PIONEER WOMAN’S BIRTHDAY.

	Monday, June 14, was the birthday
anniversary of Sister Mary Jane Thompson
a pioneer of 1847, although at that time she
had not entered her teens. Sister Thomp-
son’s parents were veterans in the Church
and she is the cousin of President. Jos. F.
Smith, their mothers were sisters and the
daughters of Joseph Fielding, who with his
family was among the first who embraced
the Gospel in this dispensation.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball and Sister
Thompson’s son Robert, arranged a sur-
prise for Sister Thompson and invited a
few of her intimate friends and Sister Kim-
ball presented her with an elegant orna-
mented birthday cake with her name on it,
which added to the delicious repast that
had been prepared for the guests, about


twenty-five in number, that they all en-
joyed. Sister Thompson entertained her
friends during the afternoon with reminis-
cences of her father and mother, telling us
of the early days in the valley, and show-
ing us some relics she had kept, old letters
and papers and articles of value, her fath-
er’s epaulettes that are just as he wore
them in Nauvoo, and the little old-fashion-
ed chair in which she sat when a little
girl in Nauvoo and crossing the plains.
She also showed us a pretty little penknife
made shortly after she came to the valley.
	In the evening there was some speaking
in an informal way, President Joseph F.
Smith calling upon those present at Sister
Kimball’s solicitation, and she was the first
one called. She alluded, as did most of
those who spoke, to Kirtland and Nauvoo,
and told us some very interesting things.
Sister Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith followed in a similar strain and
brought in Missouri as well as Ohio and
Illinois. Sister Margaret P. Young, who
is one of the pioneers of 1847, spoke in the
gift of tongues; interpreted by Sister Zina.
Other sisters who spoke were Sisters Mary
Gray, M. A. Lambert, Diana Reed, E. B.
Wells Ann Y. White, J. L. Smith and
one or two others, also Brother Howard
Corey who is a veteran, and was at one
time clerk for Joseph Smith the prophet in
Nauvoo, Hamilton G. Park and Robert
Taylor, after which Sister Thompson ex-
pressed her gratitude for the good feeling
and wishes manifest in her behalf and al-
luded tenderly to her father and mother,
and to the Prophet Joseph and his brother
Hyrum, and her vivid recollections of their 
affectionate ways with children. President
Smith then offered a few remarks which
was very gratifying to all who had the
pleasure of listening; and he also told us
in an impressive manner some of his re-
membrances of his father and his uncle
Joseph, and a little of his missionary ex-
periences. By request Brother Park dis-
missed with prayer. It was a very pleasant
and enjoyable gathering, there was a
beautiful spirit of peace in the house and
seemingly it prevaded every heart, and
such a gathering of those who love and try
to serve the Lord always leaves its blessing
upon all associated together in the home if
they are susceptible to a divine influence.


