UNION. 

	THE International Kindergarten Union
met in St. Louis, April 21 22, and 23.
There were about 300 visiting and 300 resi-
dent teachers present making in all an enthu-
isastic gathering. Three sessions a day
were held, this including a reception given
by the St. Louis Kindergartners to visit-
ing teachers.
	The regular session did not take place
until Tuesday, but those fortunate enough
to be in St. Louis on Monday had the
pleasure of hearing the Baroness Bulow
read a paper on Froebel’s principles.—This
was of much value, as the Baroness’ aunt
was often quoted.
	The first day of the session of the I. K.
U. opened Tuesday afternoon and was set
apart for the discussion of the Relation of
the Kindergarten to the Home. Mrs. J.
N. Crouse of the Chicago Kindergarten
College was the first speaker; her talk was
practical and to the point. The necessity
of intelligent co-operation of Kindergarten
and home was urged.
	Miss Putnam of Chicago was to have
had a paper on “Freedom and Law in the
Home,” but was absent, also Miss Fitts of
Brooklyn who was to read a paper on
“Freedom and Law in the Kindergarten.”
	Prof. Louis Soldon, superintendent of
the St. Louis public schools, delivered the
address of welcome Tuesday evening, Miss
Lucy Wheelock President of the I. K. U.
responding. This was followed by a paper
on the ‘‘Relation of the Kindergarten to
Higher Education;” Col. Parker closing
the exercises with one of his enthusiastic
talks on ‘‘The Ideal School.” He said
when a girl or boy is through school we
should not ask how much have you
learned, but how much of a man or a wo-
man are you.
	Wednesday morning was devoted to a
business meeting in which various commit-
tees reported, also delegates were heard
from. There were representatives present
from Japan, Honolulu, New Orleans, New
York, Utah and many other states. It
was decided to hold the next meeting in
Philadelphia the time being changed from
May to February.
	The afternoon was devoted to a Froebel
birthday celebration. A reception had
been arranged by the resident Kindergar-
tners; hand shaking, marches and games,
followed with a paper by the Baroness
Bulow on the life of Froebel, after which
dainty refreshments were served.
	The drawing teachers met with the

