[Column 1]
donation of the Relief Society for the Stake
Academy. Urged a careful education of
the young people in Zion, they should be
examples of purity to the world.
	The statistical and financial report was
then read, after which the minutes of Con-
ference were read and approved. Sister
Amelia Hodge was set apart to assist in
the Relief Society of the Stake and meeting
adjourned by the choir singing an anthem.
Benediction by Bishop Finley.
			ROSE HILLIER, Cor. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of the Primary Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake held June 19, 1897,
in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Presi-
dent Camilla C. Cobb presiding. Singing,
“A happy band of children” prayer by
David Cummings; continued by singing,
“Merry, merry children;” roll called with
twenty-two associations represented; min-
utes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. The following program was
rendered: A quartett, “Song of Welcome”
was sung by the Beesley children from the
22nd Ward. A sketch of the life of Brig-
ham Young was read by Frankie Young
from the 14th Ward. Recitation by Bessie
Fryer, 5th Ward. Lilly Conelly from the
2nd Ward, gave a story from the Book of
Mormon. Birthday song, “The Latter-
day Prophet,” was sung by the children.
Pioneer sketch by Judith Anderson, 13th
Ward. Motion song by a number of child-
ren from Forest Dale. Sentiments from
the sermons of Brigham Young by twelve
children fiom the 19th Ward. “Utah we
love thee” was sung by six girls from the
7th Ward. A motion song was sung by
Irene Tucket from the 11th Ward. Thir-
teen children from the same ward recited
the hymn that President John Taylor sang
to Joseph Smith one hour before his death,
“A poor wayfaring man of grief.” Reci-
tation, “Angels Guide,” by Della Jones of
the 15th Ward. Song by a number of
children from the 21st Ward. Recitation
by Chloe Brown from East Draper. Song
by members from the 1st Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt spoke in a pleas-
ing manner to the children. Said she had
enjoyed listening to the program given in
honor of Brigham Young, was reminded of
the great good he did while he was living;
also of Sister Eliza R. Snow. Related a
story showing the importance of never re-
fusing to do any duty we are called upon
to perform.
	President Cobb said she had listened
with pleasure to the exercises. Felt to
thank the General Board for furnishing the
booklet that had aided us in celebrating
the birthday of President Brigham Young.
Said conference would be adjourned for
three months. Singing Doxology. Bene-
diction by Brother Beesley.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Stake Sec’y.
OAKLEY, IDAHO.
	I will give you a synopsis of a portion of
the celebration of June 1, 1897. Three of
the Primaries met at Oakley Hall, the ex-
ercises were as follows: Opened with sing- 
ing “Hymn for the Latter-day Prophet.”
Prayer by Brother D. P. Curtis, a member
of the Mormon Battalion. Singing by the
Marion Primary association “Let love
abound.” First, Recitation entitled
“Angels Guide,” by Royal Price. Second,
singing “’Neath the old-apple tree,” by
two boys and two girls of the Marion
Association. Third, A short address on the

