[Column 2]
child corresponds to the development of the
race. The child takes care of that himself,
putting himself through a course of gym-
nastics from childhood to manhood.
	The kindergarten is the only system
which enables the child to develop along all
lines. The system has proven such a suc-
cess that the kindergarten idea will soon be
carried out in the lower grades of the pub-
lic schools.”
EVENING SESSION.
	After an organ selection by Professor
Radcliffe, Mrs. Jennings introduced Mrs.
Henrotin, who commenced her address by
stating that she was usually accustomed to
speak only to ladies and that it gave her
additional pleasure to include the gentle-
men among her hearers, as this presence
indicated that the gentlemen of Salt Lake
City were most devoted to the woman’s
cause. She cited three instances that had
come within her personal experience where
prominent public men had made most perti-
nent statements in regard to this cause.
One of them was a remark by Cardinal
Gibbons before a meeting of clergymen in
France that the labor movement and the
movement for the advancement of women
must go on hand in hand, and that as soon as
that fact was recognized the solution of the
two problems would be reached. Another
was a statement by Prince Bismarck that if
the great government of Germany were to
survive, the women of the land must be-
come interested in politics. The speaker
also repeated a public utterance of one of
the great labor leaders of this country to
the effect that now that the women were
learning organization the labor question
would soon be settled. Mrs. Henrotin
then reviewed the history of woman’s or-
ganization, and the incidents that led to
the formation of the present federation.
She said that as women were naturally ad-
apted to the most inaggressive methods, she
chose education as her first step, and that
the development had reached a point now
that there was no woman’s club in America
where education, politics and religion could
not be discussed freely. Soon after the
educational feature was well advanced the
department clubs commenced to be formed
and many instances were cited, particularly
among the department clubs of Chicago and
Minnesota, showing the good they had ac-
complished. Federation, which is the
principle of modern civilization, naturally
followed local and state organization, and
the National Federation which commenced
with 30 clubs, now had a membership of
500 clubs. The speaker declared that the
federation in its liberty and freedom was the
greatest example of organization that the
world had ever seen. The women of Utah
were second only to those of Maine in em-
bracing the federation principle. Mrs.
Henrotin gave several amusing incidents
that had followed the department club work,
among them being the town and village
improvement associations, where the women
of these clubs taught the school children to
become interested in this work. She told
of one little girl who reported to her local
association that she had not been able to ac-
complish much herself but she had induced
her brother to cut the grass in their yard,
and a small boy reported that all he had
been able to do was to stop every man he
met and ask him not to spit on the side-
walks.
	One of the advantages of club life and
federation which Mrs. Henrotin point

[Column 3]
out was that it produced a strong, healthy 
social life and a spirit of true fellowship
which is not to be found in what is or-
dinarily known as society. It produced
a democracy among women which nothing
else could accomplish. The Woman’s
Federation had no one leader, for hundreds
of women were coming into the movement
daily and were giving their hearts to the
work and each would thus lead the other.
Mrs Henrotin closed her address by urging
her hearers to maintain the spirit of organ-
zation at all times.
	Mrs. Thatcher, the president of the Colo- 
rado Federation, then read an address in 
which she extended greetings and congratu-
lations to the women of Utah, and after re-
viewing the work that women had accom-
plished in her own state she extended a
cordial invitation to all present to attend the
coming sessions of the Federation in
Denver.
	Mrs. Gale, the vice-president of the
Colorado Federation, made a most amusing
address in which there were many good-
natured references to the work of the or-
ganization and the persons connected with
it. She apologized for not speaking at
some length by saying that as Mrs. Hen-
rotin had reviewed the work of the national
federation, and Mrs. Thatcher bad exhaust-
ed the subject of the Colorado federation,
and as Mrs. Platt who was to follow her
would talk of everything under the sun,
there was nothing left for her to say. Her
remarks related largely to the work of west-
ern women in general as compared with
that of their sisters east of the Mississippi.
She expressed the greatest pride in the
work accomplished by western women,
particularly those of Colorado and Utah.
	After another organ selection by Profes-
sor Radcliffe, Mrs. Platt, the president of
the Denver Woman’s club, delivered the
closing address of the evening and the num-
ber of bright, amusing stories that she
told in connection with her remarks were
appreciated by the audience. Her speech
was not confined entirely to the subject of
woman, but she had much to say on the
subject of man, among other things that
she wished to see the day come when man
could be taken into women’s clubs, but she
was afraid that there was only one way to
do this and that was like the story of the
New York flats where cruel-hearted land-
lords, no matter how badly they may want
to see their property rented, make the iron-
clad provision that no children shall be ad-
mitted. A little girl whose parents had
made many unsuccessful attempts to rent
a flat and had always been refused on ac- 
count of their child, finally saw another
little girl leaning out of the window of one
of the flats and in her amazement she asked
her how she ever got in there. The other
little girl replied that she was “borned”
in there.
	Mrs. Platt denied the existence of such
a being as the ‘‘new woman” and said
that the only thing new about her was her
club life and organization and the good she 
had accomplished by taking her proper 
place in life. Man need not fear that wo-
man would outstrip him in the race as he
had such a long start before woman com-
menced. Mrs. Platt argued that woman’s
work in the world for the advancement of
her own sex and the relief of distressed hu-
mauity could not destroy her sphere in the
home, and she urged her hearers to regard
home life in the same light that any good
man would regard it.


She dwelt at length on the spirit of
fellowship which club life and organiza-
tion produced among women. Mrs. Platt’s
remarks drew forth continued applause at
the close and her hearers desisted only after
she arose and told them that unless they
did so she would tell them another story.


