[Column 2]
seven cousins in the Greek army, and that
she knew of seven Greek girls who entered
the army and each of them have now risen
to the rank of captain. Miss Clara Barton
expressed the sentiment of hundreds of
liberty-loving people in this country when
she, in answer to a communication from the
president of the Greek National League,
telegraphed the following message: “ Will
be very glad to co-operate in any way we
can. How can we best aid the cause?”
Queen Olga, the wife of King George, is a
true Greek who loves her country and is
in full sympathy with her people and their
cause. but unfortunately she places too
much confidence in the military ability of
her husband. She possesses great personal
charms and is highly accomplished, and
her most intimate friend is an American
lady who was born in Washington D. C.
	A patroitic person scarcely finds it pos-
sible to imagine any but a true and brave
Greek occupying King George’s apartments
in the old palace at Athens that was built
in the time of King Otho, for they are dec-
orated with the soul-stirring scenes of the
wars of liberation, and the tattered and
blood stained flags that were captured at
those same wars.
	A true Greek never gets so far from his
native land, so rich or so poor, but he re-
members to send home his remittance to aid
in establishing institutions of learning for
the rising generations of Greece. The
Athens University is a magnificent struc-
ture, and was built principally by contribu-
tions from exiled Greeks, and for this
reason it is called the National University.
	The men and women who have lived a
lifetime of freedom and plenty, would not
be so ready to condemn the Modern Greek
for his want of progress if they would but
put themselves in the Greeks place and
imagine, if possible, the state of affairs in
the land of Greece, when she has freed
herself by a fierce and bloody struggle from
her four centuries of bondage to a Turkish
ruler. Now that she has suffered new losses,
acknowledged her poverty and accepted
defeat, there will be those who will smile
in derision at the results achieved, but
there will always be those who will have a
tender reverence for, and proper apprecia- 
tion of the people who sanctified the altar
of liberty by the shedding of Christian
blood hundreds of years before our own
beautiful land of freedom, was dreamed of,
and they would be glad to join in the shout
‘‘Down with the Turk;” but that may
never be, for Christian Europe is so far
divided, and in division there is no strength.
It is the dream of France to possess Greece,
and England desires Egypt as the British
highway to India, and each of the other
powers have some covetous design that
seems to preclude the union that is neces-
sary to vanquish the power of the Sultan;
beside the money power in Europe as well
elsewhere, demands its share of attention
in diplomatic circles, and the bond holder
must have his dividend, though he be paid
in money stained in Christian blood.
	Sooner or later there must come a des-
perate struggle for supremacy between the
great powers of Continental Europe in
which England must also become involved,
and when the smoke of battle clears, it
will be found that the map of Europe has
been changed and that Turkey has been
divided among the so called Christian
nations.

[Column 3]			
