[Column 2]
Kindergartners in the evening and were
gratified to hear such speakers as Paterson
Dubois of Philadelphia, editor of the Sun-
day School Times, followed by James L.
Hughes who spoke on Froebel and his
work. Prof. Hughes emphasized the fact
that the child developes as did the race by
slow stages. He said that was often over-
looked by parents and educators and much
injury was done the child; he also dwelt
on the careful training of the instincts of the
child, leading and guiding but not forcing
him in his mental growth. He dwelt
especially on the instinct of activity and
the care with which this should be guided
and led in the right direction.
	Thursday morning was devoted to re-
ports from Committees and the election of
officers, the old officers being re-elected.
Dr. Krohn, of the Child Study Monthly,
gave an address in the afternoon on the
results of child study. Several other
papers were given along this line of work,
Mrs. Hughes of Toronto closing with a
warning to Kindergartners not to take too
much of this work into the Kindergarten
as it kills the spirit.
	St. Louis the mother of the public school
Kindergartens in America has good cause
for her pride in her 68 public school
Kindergartens and her 300 teachers.
	With such a leader and trainer at the
head as Miss Mary McCullough what else
could one expect? Her earnestness and
interest in the work must influence all
who came in contact with her.
	The majority of Kindergartens have two
sessions a day with an enrollment in each
session, ranging in different Kindergartens,
from one hundred to one hundred and fifty.
Each child pays fifty cents a term for ten
weeks for material, and this reduces the
expenses and necessitates only an expen-
diture of room and salary. The salaries
range from twenty-five dollars to seventy
dollars, experienced teachers receiving the
latter. The practical work is good and
shows the result of experienced teachers.
	The only objection to these Kindergar-
tens is that children are not permitted to
enter early enough, the age being limited
to six years, but a movement is on foot to
enter them earlier.
A. C.


