[Column 2]
the Oakley branch as all feeling interested 
in the work, had only been organized two
years.
	Counselor Ruth Pack said, “I feel
thankful so many of us have gathered here
today and I don’t feel like some of my sis-
ters, glad when this meeting is over. I am
grateful for this privilege of meeting with
my sisters, it does us good to talk of the
goodness of God and the Prophet Joseph
whose blood was spilt for this cause. I
have seen many mighty works done in this
Church, all the promises are to the faithful,
all things are for our good. The Lord will
open up a way for you if you are faithful
and come before Him in humble prayer.
May we ever be found faithful is my prayer
in the name of Jesus.”
	Counselor Ann Cluff said, “It is not my 
forte to talk and have not met with my sis-
ters of late, my duties in life have not been
such that I could leave home. The weak
parts are what we want to watch and try to
overcome them and build up a character
for ourselves and live so the world will be
better by our living here, praying the Lord
to bless us.”
	President Elmina S. Taylor said, “When
I left home this morning I did not know
you were holding a Relief Society Confer-
ence here today, we came to attend the
Young Ladies Conference tomorrow. I
have always been associated with the Re-
lief Society. I came to these valleys in
1849, and have been associated with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Marinda Hyde, M. I.
Horne and others, have traveled thousands
and thousands of miles with them. The
Prophet Joseph turned the key of knowl- 
edge for women; he made it possible
for us to meet together and speak of the
principles of the Gospel. I say God bless
this noble band of sisters that administer to -
the needy. God is not a respecter of per-
sons but will bless all. What kind of wo-
men ought we to be? We should teach
our children the true principles and warn
them of the dangers that surround them.
It is just as much a duty for a father to
help make home happy as for a mother; it
takes a father and a mother to make a
pleasant home. If our children go astray
they will have to suffer and pay the penalty.
Children should obey their parents, they
know what is for you best and have a de-
sire to do you good, you should listen to
their counsel.”
	Sister Goddard spoke at some length;
advised daughters to love and cherish their
parents while they live, aid their mothers
in the cares of home and make her happy.
Mothers should impress the true principles
of the Gospel on the minds of these sons
and daughters that have been born under
the new and everlasting covenant, and
those that go astray from the paths of vir-
tue will have to suffer and pay the penalty
of wrong doing.
	Sister Julia Woolstenhulme, Celestia Y.
Pack and Laura C. Pack spoke of the great 
blessings the saints enjoy and of the en-
couragement we receive to go on and do
what is right that we may gain that ex-
altation we have set out for.
	President W. W. Ciuff said he was truly
pleased with the good instructions we had
had today. “We have heard the report
of all the branches, it shows the good th
isters are doing. Some say I flatter th
isters, I don’t call it flattery to encourag
he sisters in their labors. I say thes
hings to show my appreciation of the


(Column 1)
good work, I don’t think we appreciate these
things enough. I don’t know when I
have been so well pleased as I was this
morning in hearing the Stake Relief Society
report, it shows you are alive to your duties
and I love to give you credit for what you
do. I ask God to bless the sisters that you
may continue in this great work. I enjoy
gathering with the sisters in their confer-
ences and I ask the Lord to bless you.”
	President M. J. Atwood said, “I have
enjoyed myself in this Conference, we have
been blessed in having Sisters Taylor and
Goddard with us and I hope we may treas-
ure up their counsel and be benefited by it.
I am glad President Cluff appreciates what
we have done, it gives us courage to go on
and do better. This Conference will now
adjourn to meet at Peoa the first Tuesday
in September, 1897.” Singing, “An
angel from on high.” Benediction by
Bishop Samuel F. Atwood of Kamas.
MARY L. WOOLSTENHULME, Sec.
UTAH STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing “Hark the song of jubilee;” prayer by -
Brother William Bromley; singing “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Stake Counselor Marilla Daniels desired
the Spirit of the Lord to attend her in her
remarks as also the spirit of the hymn just,
sung which was sung at the dedication of
the Kirtland Temple. “Much has been
spoken of this morning in regard to silk
and I hope the sisters will take hold of that
industry and make it a success, which we
cannot do without a united effort.” Stated
that a lunch would be furnished the sisters
at our next Conference that they might re-
main together. “We also propose to hold
an Officers, meeting at 10 a. m. same day
that will assist us to work in unity. My
earnest desire is that the Spirit of God may
attend us in all our labors.”
	Sister Zina Young told of her reminiscen-
ces of Sister Daniels when a child, said “I
am thankful she is still in the same faith. We
come to Zion to receive strength and to be
productive of good to each other, I rejoice
with my sisters who keep in the pathwalk
of the Gospel. These mountain vales
flourish under the priesthood of God, were'
that withdrawn desolation would follow;
when I see the different organizations pro-
gressing it rejoices my soul.
	Stake Counselor Diantha Billing, felt
truly thankful her lot was cast among the
this people. “When I see Sister Young
my mind reverts back, and through the
grace of God I am still with you. The
Prophet Joseph said ‘Keep with the main
channel of the stream and you will not
apostatize,’ and may we remain in that
course is my prayer. 
	Sister Zina Y. Card thought if ministering
angels were upon the earth, the Relief
Society sisters were those angels; said their
mission was to relieve the poor, tend the
sick and save souls. “Brother Nuttall
has been talking about your systematizing
your business, he has authority from the
Priesthood to do so. She thought that we
should sustain our EXPONENT more, being
our only woman’s paper, spoke at some
length upon home manufacture and showed
we were at fault and against our own in-
terests in not supporting them; to talk of
these things is of as much importance as to
speak of heavenly things, the Lord is com-
ing upon the earth and we should make it
beautiful by our own handiwork. "Sisters

(Column 2)
remember the words of my mother, and fit
yourselves for a celestial kingdom.”
	Brother Nuttall said “If you will let me
know when you get a piece of land upon
which to build I will come and attend to
your deeds, do not employ lawyers, I have
proper forms specially prepared for this
purpose; your Trustees are not elected
every four years as are your Directors, but
remain. Many things come to my mind,
but a meeting will be called so I can ex-
plain, I am one of you in this Society by
permission of Sister Young. The officers
should make a strong effort to attend these
meetings and conferences.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said “It is inspiring
to see so many present, and of the young
sisters. Some of our young people who
have acquired the so called advanced edu-
cation, criticise the old-fashioned sisters in
their composition and grammar; I think a
practical education profitable, the Relief
Society is a high school and the experiences
of many older sisters is more than school-
ing, where the sisters have acquired many
things as well as speaking publicly. All
grandmothers are not in their dotage, as
evidenced by Sister Card.” The speaker
recommended the braiding of straw and
the raising of silk as being remunerative
employment; home made articles were
very much commented upon at the World’s
Fair and the ladies in the East thought
them very creditable. President Young
was a great advocate of home industries,
manufacture your own goods is the watch-
word now. Said that it showed a lack
of interest not to take the EXPONENT,
many erroneous ideas are refuted through
that paper by our missionaries, particularly
when assailed about the women of Utah,
many copies are sent away with this object
in view. The Book of Poems will soon be
out, “I suppose the sisters think it has
been a long time since it was talked of.”
	Sister Ellen Clarke of American Fork, in
her remarks said she had worked energeti-
cally in silk and her daughter had done
considerable reeling.
	Bishop Robinson recommended home-
made goods, he wore no other when he
could get them. “I feel proud of the
sisters’ remarks and especially upon home-
raised silk.
	President Mary John made some closing
remarks, said we should subscribe for the
EXPONENT, and take an active part in rais-
ing silk.
	Sister Zina D. H Young said “Sisters
take the Exponent between you if you
think you cannot singly. President Young
gave this mission to Sister Wells and there-
fore she is desirous of continuing it, al-
though she is not financially benefited.”'
	Meeting closed by singing “We thank
Thee O, God for a prophet.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Barratt.
		M. A. TILL, Sec. pro tem.


