[Column 1]
fellowship and good will, and trust while
assembled in these gatherings there shall be
such happy interchange of ideas and mutual 
thought, that we shall all of us forever after,
feel richer in knowledge and wisdom, and
have a better understanding of each other’s
conception of the duties and obligations of
life, and of that large duty we all owe to
each other and to the great world of
humanity.
	Again, we welcome the visitors to our
hearts and homes, feeling assured it is
good for us to know each other better and
thus learn to love each other more, to have
greater charity, because of the larger oppor-
tunity afforded through the association that
comes through our local clubs and the
grouping of clubs in the State, and the fur-
their grouping of the several states, bring-
ing into touch and cementing the love and
fellowship of the women of America, in
one golden chain, reaching from the Atlan-
tic to the Pacific, and from Canada to the
Gulf of Mexico; and in the grand galaxy
of bright stars, be sure the intermountain
states (whose highest altitude scarce equals
the lofty ideas of their generosity to women)
will shine with a brilliancy of setting of
which we who are honored with the full
rights of citizenship may be justly proud.
	In closing my remarks on this auspici-
ous and happy occasion, pardon me if I re-
vert for one moment to the spirit of the wo-
men Pioneers of this now fair State, who
in the early days of the valley though liv-
ing in a primitive way, far removed from
the great cities of the world, in keeping
with the progressive spirit of the age and
believing in the advancement of women,
established in this city, the first woman’s
paper in this intermountain region a quarter
of a century ago, and the first except one,
west of the Mississippi river. I merely
cite this fact to prove that Western women,
although perhaps lacking the culture of the
East, have not been behind in ideas at least
of woman’s higher education and literary
attainments.
	In conclusion we extend to you a true
and tender welcome to our own mountain
home, in the new State, the forty-fifth
star in the dear old flag, the Stars and
Stripes that in these mountain states, Colo-
rado, Wyoming, Utah and Idaho float over
free women as well as free men.
	Let us hope and believe that the in-
spiration of this convention may stimulate
us to greater efforts for good in all direc-
tions and along all lines and give us more
exalted and sublime ideals to work to, and
at length attain a complete realization of
the best and highest advancement possible
to reach in the pursuit of true knowledge
on the highway of life.
MRS. MCVICKER.
	Mrs. Emma J. McVicker of the Cleofan,
gave a most interesting talk on the evo-
lution of the model pupil in which she said:
“A knowledge of childhood is necessary to
a knowledge of all the ’ologies. Many
things are gained by cultivating the study
of nature, only through works of creation
can the child understand the Creator. A
child’s first instinct is to build, next comes
the plastic instinct, he instinctively desires
to mold, and if allowed full play his creative
powers will bring out many beautiful re-
sults. All children are sensible to music
and rhythm.
	The greatest principle of development
is self activity. The development of the

