[Column 2]
Maria Wilcox; continued by singing
“Though nations rise and men conspire;”
minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne was thankful to be here
with us again. Thanked the sisters for
their prayers and sympathy during her
bereavement. “We are organized and
thereby we are strong. We have had so
much revealed yet we will have more as
soon as we live up to what we already
have.” Felt thankful for the Gospel and
for our lives which are a school for us. to
learn lessons. “I hope we shall learn
them well. We must bear patiently, and
not sink under our tribulations, to regret
when we are worn out and go to rest. We
are making our own records which will
stand for us forever.” Referred to the
Psalmist David, how he washed himself
and then ate food, and quoted his answer
to the question why did he do this, “We
go to meetings and hear His servants speak
about Him, yet here we testify one to the
other how good God has been to us." Re-
ferred to her Patriarchal blessings and how 
true they were, and how good the Lord had
been to her through all her sorrows and
afflictions.
	President Zina D. H. Young said, “I am
happy to be with you to day. President
Young instituted these meetings and what
a blessing they are to those who come here
with sad hearts. By the word of our testi-
mony we shall overcome. If angels come
here, they have a way to take notes and
these will be part of our record. We want
to lay up good words to think of. It is
sacred to come here. Every step we take
in obedience the stronger we will become.
Those who seek to do the mind and will of
God will come out all right. If things
come that you do not understand, do not
worry it will be all right, I am thankful 
for the Gospel. I used to be a Methodist,
and I was sincere but when the Gospel
came I gladly embraced it. Do not find
fault with the authorities; up hill or down
hill, hold on to that staff it will be all right.
The Gospel is good in youth, in old age
and good to die by.
	How I wish the seats were full! How I
wish we all appreciated our privileges!
How I wish I could whisper to the spirits
of our sisters ‘Come to meeting!’ I love to
praise the sisters. We are blessed, but let
us be humble. I want to hear the sisters
speak of the loving kindness of the Lord.”
	Sister Leaker bore her testimony to the
truth of this work. “I would not dare
raise my voice against the Lord’s anoint-
ed. The Lord will bless all those who
trust in Him. If you are in trouble go to
the Lord, He will not tell any one else, and
He will bless you.”
	Sister Maria Wilcox thanked the Lord 
that we had mothers in Israel to give us 
such precious words as we have had today.
Said we should be ready to perform every
duty that devolves upon us. Spoke of the
Temple work and encouraged the sisters
to go and do their Temple work. 
	Sister Davis bore her testimony. Told
of a man who was born and raised here,
yet had never spoken to President Wood-
ruff, yet was so anxious to do so. “I feel
how privileged I have been and I am so
thankful for my many blessings.”
	Sister Bassett said she had a testimony
to bear; thought we should appreciate the
many blessings we have. Have no desire
to find fault. Spoke of her parents suffer-
ing and endurance at Nauvoo; made
many encouraging remarks.

[Column 3]
	Sister Margaret Steele spoke of her
pleasure in coming to meeting and seeing
the faces of her sisters. “I have never
doubted the truth of this work. I try to
live my religion and try to be faithful.”
Spoke of charity, and how we should look
at each other, perhaps we would do no bet-
ter in the same place.”
	Sister Jones said, “I know that God
lives and that He has spoken in these last
days, and that we still have His mouth-
pieces here with us. These meetings here
always have been such a comfort to me. If
the sisters only knew how glorious these
meetings are I know they would come."
	Sister Jane James bore her testimony.
She was thankful that she was in this
kingdom and desired to be faithful. “I
desire to do the will of my Father who is
in heaven. I know this work is true, it is
all we have worth living for but the Spirit
of God.” Concluded by speaking in
tongues; interpretation given by Sister Zina
D. H. Young.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said, “I have
been so delighted with the counsel given
and the testimonies borne, that I feel that
I would like to add my humble testimony.
I have a testimony that Joseph Smith was
a true prophet.” Spoke of her experiences
in England; how good her parents were,
and how glad she was that she ever heard
the sound of the Gospel. Spoke beauti-
fully on charity,
	Sister Gardner bore her testimony. Sis-
ter Margaret O. Brown felt to encourage
the sisters in Temple work. Said it was a
glorious work, and how glad we will be to
meet those whom we have officiated for
when we get behind the vail.
	President Horne made closing remarks
and meeting adjourned for two weeks, at
usual time and place. Closed by singing,
“’Mid scenes of confusion.” Benediction
by Sister L. D. Alder,
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


