[Column 2]
study there was no awakening you except
by extreme measures. But tell me my
boy, what is your trouble? I could not
get by you, so have heard what you have
been telling yourself, for which I ask
pardon.”
	“I will, and may be you can help me to
straighten myself out. I always liked
you; you don’t seem so down on boys like
me as—the bishop—and some others.”
	“I have a little more patience perhaps
having been a sort of ruffian myself in my
young days, but believe me, none has the
interest of the boys more at heart than the
Bishop.”
	“Well may be so, but any how, I feel
more free to talk with you. You see, Brother
Harper, I’m made of wild stuff somehow.
I want to be good and I try as hard as I
can, but once in a while the old nick in me
will come out, and then I get on a tear,
and the dickens is to pay generally.”
	“And you want to know why it is that
the good people in our Church so often
have wild tares in their harvest of children?
Well, I’ll tell you what I think about it,
Brother Heplar. You see these are the
Last Days, that we read so much about in
the Scriptures. Satan is alive to the fact
that his kingdom is tottering to its fall,
that he is on his last legs, in fact, and you
may be assured that he is putting in good
time trying to frustrate the plans of Jesus
Christ, whom he hates. That is his busi-
ness, he is merely paying strict attention
to it, so I don’t know as he is so much to
blame after all. If we would profit by his
example in that, it might be better for us.
Well, you see, he has tried it again and
again on the fathers and mothers. They
have withstood every attack, so he has
turned his attention to the children, who
are not so well grounded in the faith, there-
fore more liable to be deceived. And the
more promising the child, the more deter-
mined are his efforts to conquer him. Oh,
my dear boy, were the veil taken from be-
fore our eyes, we would be appalled by
what is in the unseen world around us.”
	“I believe what you say, Brother Har-
per, for I have felt these influences. But
what can a fellow do? If he has no natur-
al goodness, but is purely mean and con-
temptible, how can he fight against nature
and the influences too?”
	“If he relies upon his own strength, he
will certainly fail. Satan fears no man on
earth, in and of himself. Happily for us
we are in possession of something by which
he can be controlled.”
	“And that is—”
	“ There are three things which he can-
not withstand, God the Father, His Son,
Jesus Christ, and the Holy Priesthood.
This latter we have with us, and if we
honor it, it is our safeguard from the attacks
of evil. Probably I have lectured you
long enough, but I want to give you a
word of advice. If you really want to do
better, and be a good and useful man, go
and ask the Lord to help you. You will
not be disappointed in Him.”
	“That was Grace’s counsel and I have
tried, but Brother Harper, I guess I am
too wicked, for I hav’nt felt any change.”
	“Tut, tut, boy, remember that though
our sins be as scarlet, yet they are made
white in the blood of the Lamb. Try
again my boy, and don’t give up trying; it
will all come right in the end. Goodbye,
and if I can do anything for you at any
time don’t be afraid to ask.” 	And with a

[Column 3]
hearty hand shake the Bishop’s first
Counselor turned in at his own gate.
(Continued.)


