[Column 2]
Mancos, Colorado, May 23, 1897, Stake
President Martha Hammond presiding.
Present on the stand were Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards and wife Jane S. Richards,
and Elder Charles W. Penrose, Counselor
in the Salt Lake Stake. Of the Stake
Presidency F. A. Hammond and Wm.
Halls. Opened by the choir singing the
hymn “Glory to God on high;” prayer
was offered by President F. A. Hammond;
continued by singing “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.”
	President Martha Hammond expressed
her pleasure in meeting in Relief Society
Conference again and of being favored with
the presence of Sister Jane S. Richards,
First Counselor to the President Sister Zina
D. H. Young, also the visiting brethren.
	The reports of the different branches
of the Stake were listened to. All are
doing fairly well but there is room for im-
provement. The General and Stake officers
were unanimously sustained.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards commenced
her remarks by saying, should the babies
cry she did not want them sent out of the
place as she felt they were angels; if she
could not talk louder than a baby could
cry she would take her seat, as she did
not want the mothers to be deprived of
coming to meeting because they had babies.
“I do hope the mothers will be more dili-
gent in the training of their children, as the
evil one is doing all in his power to lead
them astray, therefore it will require the
undivided attention of the parents, teaching
their children to be truthful, honest and
virtuous. Our young women as a rule
seem to think that the Relief Society was
organized for the old ladies, but that is not
the case for it is for old and young alike,
and I hope all will try and attend to the
Relief meetings as often as they can and I
hope the sisters will continue to store wheat
as President Brigham Young counseled
them to do in case of famine. We know
not how it will come or when, and the
safest way is to prepare for it. I do wish
the parents, the mothers especially, would
attend the Primaries occasionally; it not
only encourages the children, but would be
a great help to those who have them in
charge.” Gave other instructions, among
them she enjoined upon the sisters the
necessity of sustaining their own paper, the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Elder Penrose, of Salt Lake City, said
what was worth doing at all, was worth
doing well, then if we undertake to do any-
thing in the different associations, we
should apply our whole energy to that duty
and do it well. If we give our hearts to
the Lord, then we will be willing to give
all we have to His cause Hoped that the
sisters would put barriers in the way of the
wave of unchastity that is sweeping over
the people, and be very firm and earnest in
instructing the youth in being chaste and
virtuous.
	Apostle Richards said in order to keep
up our proper growth, men and women
must understand what their mission is here
on earth, and each one of us should be
satisfied with our mission here, as the Lord
understood what he was doing when He
sent us here. Spoke very impressively on
the subject of chastity and virtue, which
was previously spoken on by Elder Pen-
rose, and for parents to keep strict watch
over their children and not allow them to
be roaming around at night, and wanted
the Bishops to attend the Primaries and

[Column 3]
show to the children that they have an in-
terest in them, also to counsel and assist
the sisters in the care of the wheat that
they have to store up.
	President F. A. Hammond added a few
remarks endorsing all that had been said.
The Conference was adjourned for three
months, after which the choir sang. Bene-
diction by Bishop George Hall.
	EVELYN ADAMS, Stake Sec’y.
BEAR LAKE.
	THE Bear Lake Relief Society convened
at the Bloomington meeting house May 23,
at 10 a. m., President Hart of the Stake
presidency being on the stand. After sing-
ing, prayer was offered by Brother Walter
Hodge; the choir sang “Hail to the bright-
ness of Zion’s glad morning.” The offic-
ers roll was called, after which President
Lindsay expressed her thankfulness to God
for the many blessings we were enjoying.
Said the forenoon meeting would be de-
voted to reports. The following branches
of the Relief Society were accordingly re-
ported as in good condition, the sisters
enjoying their labors and felt that the
Spirit of God was with them. Blooming-
ton, President Patterson; Paris First ward,
Sister Jane Stucki; Paris Second ward,
President Innes; Lanark, Sister Loveland;
Liberty, Sister Austin; Ovid, President
Carlson; Bern, President Kuntz; Naunen,
Sister Williams; Georgetown, Sister H.
Huff; Bennington, Sister Merrill; Mont-
pelier, Sister Bagley; Dingle, Sister Sparks;
St. Charles, Sister N. A. Pugmire; Fish-
haven, President Howell; Garden City,
President Linford; Lake Town, Sister
Nebeker; Wardboro, President Lindsay;
Thomas Fork, Soda Springs, Round-valley,
Randolph and Woodruff being the only
ones in the whole Stake not represented.
	President Lindsay said that there had
never been a better representation of the
Relief Society before in this Stake and
urged the sisters to awake to a sense of
their duties and live that they might enjoy
a goodly portion of the Spirit of God to
lead and guide them in all their under-
takings. Spoke of sustaining the Priest-
hood of God. Meeting adjourned by sing-
ing “Jesus my own Redeemer.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop Finley.
	At 2 p. m. meeting was called and after
the usual devotional exercises the sacra-
ment was administered; during the admin-
istration of the same the choir sang a
sacramental hymn. President Lindsay
spoke a short time giving timely advice
and counsel. Counselor Elizabeth Collins
feebly tottered to the stand and expressed
her thanks to God for sparing her life un-
til this time. Spoke of her travels through
this Stake of Zion and felt that her work
was nearly done. Her only desire was to
be faithful to the end.
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke of the good
work being done by the Relief Society.
Addressed the young ladies, urged them
to be kind to their parents, especially their
mothers; said “They will not always be
with you, do not wait until after they are
gone before you realize what they have
done for you.”
	Sister Mary Bagley said there was a
great responsibility resting upon the
mothers in Israel, they should be worthy
examples for their children.
	Sister Hodge expressed a desire to do all
she could to further the good work. Presi-
dent Joseph Hart spoke of the liberal


