[Column 2]
life of Brigham Young by President H D.
Haight of this Stake of Zion. Fourth, In-
strumental music by Miss Vilate Bates of
Marion. Fifth, “Twelve reasons why we
honor Brigham Young,” answers by twelve
young ladies, Oakley. Sixth, An essay on
the Biography of Brigham Young by Ruby
Pickett. Seventh, Instrumental music,
Geneva Elison, Oakley. Eighth, Recitation
by Willie Sessions of Marion. Ninth,
Twelve sentiments from the sermons of
Brigham Young by a class of boys and
girls of the Oakley Association. Tenth, Re-
marks on the worthiness of the character of
President Young, Moroni Pickett, Marion.
	President Priscilla Worthington made
closing remarks and announced for the
children, to adjourn to the Lee Hall at 3
p. m. for further pleasures of the day.
Services closed by Oakley choir singing,
“A happy band of children.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Dunn, also a member
of the Mormon Battalion.
				S. E. ROBINSON.
P. S. Other Primaries and Sunday
schools celebrated the memorable day at
their respective places.	S. E R.
EAST MILL CREEK PRIMARY.
	THE Primary of East Mill Creek cele-
brated the birthday of our beloved presi-
dent, Brigham Young, in the following
manner: First was the raising of the
Stars and Stripes, then came the program.
Opening hymn. “Our God we raise to
Thee” by the Primary children. Invoca-
tion by Bishop’s counselor Samuel Oliver.
Continued by the Primary singing “When
many to the Savior’s feet.” The opening
address to the children was given by our
Bishop in a most eloquent and able man-
ner, admonishing the children to read .and
study the life and character of Brigham
Young as one of the most noble and great-
est of men, whose name stands in the front
as a colonizer. “I look back with pleasure
upon different times when I have been in
his company with my father.” And he
then spoke at great length upon the merits
of Brigham Young.
	“Why we honor Brigham Young” was
recited by Leonidas Fisher. Twelve senti-
ments of Brigham Young were given by
twelve little children. A birthday song
for the Latter-day Prophets was sung by
the Primary choir. “Angels Guide” was
recited by Miss Genie Neff; interspersed
with addresses, questions and answers,
Articles of Faith, songs and recitations.
	The program closed by singing “Trust
the children.” Benediction by Brother J
M. Fisher. We then had lunch followed
by dancing for the children, and an evening
party for the adults, making in all a very
 njoyable day and one long to be remem-
bered by both old and young.
