THE PIONEER JUBILEE. 

	GREAT preparations are going forward
here and in other adjacent localities for
celebrating the Pioneer Jubilee of a half
century; the Hall of Relics is nearing its
completion and is quite artistic in design,
and presents something of the appearance
in its whiteness of the World’s Fair build-
ings in Chicago, which caused Jackson
Square to be designated as the “White
City.” Were it a permanent building the
city might be proud of it; as it is, one can
only enjoy its beauty for a little season.
	The foundation for the monument in
honor of President Brigham Young is also
in process and the work is being pushed as
rapidly as possible. Other matters that
have been undertaken are not so noticable,
but the people are given to understand that
everything is progressing and it is expected
that there will be the greatest gathering in
this city that has ever taken place here.
	The pioneers themselves, the real veter-
ans should be honored and made to feel
that their labors are appreciated by those
who are reaping in a great measure the
benefits of their toil and endeavors. This
generation born in the valleys of the
mountains know comparatively little of the
hardships and positive suffering of those
who came to this desert and opened up the
land for homes and habitations that they
now enjoy, and made it possible for them
to go on and improve and establish great
industries and great institutions of learn-
ing of which these pioneers laid the earliest
foundations. The greater part of those
valiant men and women have gone behind
the vail, but for those who still remain no
pains should be spared to make the Jubilee
all that it can possibly mean to them.
Something more than mere show and
pageantries, or even brass bands or martial
music or military parade The spirit of
the Lord must permeate the Jubilee pro-
ceedings if it be an acceptable tribute to
those who are expected to be the recipients
of this homage.
	The people who came up here in 1847,
came by inspiration and dedicated this land
to the Lord for a resting place for the weary
saints, and the Lord has wonderfully blest
their efforts, and caused the earth to bring
forth in abundance, and this same spirit
must continue and abide with the people if
prosperity is to crown their labors in the
future as it has in the past. The original

