EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE were favored recently with a visit from
Mrs. Clinton Smith of Washington, D. C.
a member of the National Press Associa-
tion and a very pleasing and delightful wo-
man in many ways. Her husband came
to Utah in the interest of the war depart-
ment, having been sent to look after some
bu lding interest and this gave Mrs. Smith
an opportunity to visit our City. She at-
tended the Tabernacle services in company
with the writer and Dr. R. B. Pratt; we
also had in the party a distinguished French
writer and correspondent of a French paper
and Mrs. M. M. Johnson, known best by
her nom de plume, Ruby Lamonte; the
last named lady came to the city to attend
the Text Book Convention and was the
guest during her stay of Mr. and Mrs.
P. T. Farnsworth. These ladies are wo-
men of notable and exceptionally fine 
qualities and attainments.
	MADAME CLEOPHAS, the French writer,
was a very fascinating woman. She has
traveled much and kept her eyes open, and
can describe in glowing terms what she has
seen. She is a true philanthropist and a
member of the Red Cross, is a friend of
Clara Barton’s and of the Misses Johnson’s
who visited Salt Lake a year or so ago,
and were entertained by the Press Club, or
rather we should say, entertained the Press
Club most delightfully. Madame Cleophas
has the charming personality peculiar to


the cultured women of France. She is a
brilliant conversationalist and highly en-
tertaining in her descriptions of persons and
places. Madame has had some sorrowful ex-
periences; she has promised the writer a
sketch of her past life which we hope to
have soon, when we may be able to tell
you some thrilling incidents through
which she has passed in her early woman-
hood.
	MRS. CLINTON SMITH was born in Ver-
mont among the Green mountains, and
has all her life been engaged in philan-
thropic work, and has been a contributor to
the “Rural New Yorker,” “Weekly Wit-
ness,” “Demorest’s Magazine,” and other
periodicals. She has used the pen names,
Alica and August Noon, and is now ac-
tively engaged in literary pursuits, though
she has a family of five children and judg-
ing from her conversation one would think
her an excellent housekeeper as well as
wife and mother. Her home was in Mid-
dlebury, Vt., until 1891, when her husband
accepted a Government position in Wash-
ington, D. C. Her father was a pioneer
geologist in his native state. Mrs. Smith
attended the meetings of the Federation of
Clubs held in this city, and made a neat
little speech during the discussion on
Thnrsday morning in which she paid a
high compliment to Senator Frank J. Can-
non who had been most kind and helpful
to the ladies in their work on special com-
mittees with which she had been connected.
Mrs. Smith attended the club reception on
Thursday evening at Mrs. Nelden’s, escorted
by Dr. Pratt. On Friday morning she left
the city to return home, and we hope car-
ried with her pleasant memories of Utah
and certainly she left agreeable impressions
with those who had the opportunity of be-
coming acquainted with her.


