[Column 2]
mittee who reported all the clubs in the
Federation represented. Next, business
was the admission of new clubs, five in
number as follows: Woman’s Athaeneum
of Park City; S. B. L., Coalville Home
Culture, Ogden; Ogden Historical Society;
and Provo Sorosis. Then came the address
of welcome by Mrs. E. B. Wells and response
by Mrs. M. H. Graham. Vice-President of
the Federation, which was given in a very
pleasing way and was quite poetical in con-
struction and in rendering. We regret
very much that we have not space for all
the speeches given and business transacted,
but we can say truthfully that it was a
most instructive session of meetings and we
feel much real good has been gained by
women In thus affiliating and helping each
other.
	After the two days meeting a reception
was given by the club women on Thurs-
day evening at the elegant residence of
Mrs. W. A. Nelden, at which there was a
fair sprinkling of gentlemen among the
many ladies. The spacious parlors were
fragrant and beautiful with flowers, and
the music by Olsen’s Band was most inspir-
ing. In a social way the affair was a perfect
success. Among the distinguished gentle-
men present were Mr. Charles Henrotin of
Chicago, Apostle H. J. Grant, President
Angus M. Cannon, C. S. Kinney, W E.
Halm, Dr. A. C. Ewing, Rev. A. H. Henry,
Dr. Plummer and Mr. McCormick, and
scores of beautiful and intellectual women.
SPEECH OF WELCOME, MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	Mrs. President Henrotin, Mrs. Presi-
dent Jennings, delegates, visitors from a
distance and from adjacent cities, good
friends one and all- In behalf of the Salt
Lake clubs we give you sincere and heart-
felt greetings, and we rejoice to welcome
you to our fair city in the vales of the
Rocky Mountains. We congratulate this
assembly of club women today that they
are honored with the presence of the emi-
nent Mrs. Henrotin, whose name and fame
we all know throughout Utah, because of
her connection with the Columbian Ex-
position and we feel that she is very near to
the ladies assembled here on account of oc-
cupying the honorable position of president
of the general Federation of Women’s-
clnbs of which the Utah Federation is one
small branch and though it may appear
very small in comparison with other larger
states that have had greater advantages,
yet we are all aware that very often the
smaller branches of great trees are more
fruitful, if not more beautiful than those
that have attained to a greater size and a
more luxuriant growth of foliage.
	And we hope the Utah branch may
blossom and eventually bear fruit of such
excellent quality that it will not suffer by
comparison with older and larger states,
but like the fruitful bough may hang over
the Rocky Mountain wall that hems Utah
in, and become known and appreciated in
other lands.
	We are proud to have Mrs. Henrotin
and the Colorado women in our midst, and
we extend fraternal greetings to Mrs.
Thatcher, president of the Colorado Feder-
ation, to Mrs. Gale, its vice-president, and
to Mrs. Platt, president of the Denver Wo-
man’s club, and we hope to make the so-
journ in our city of these distinguished
representatives of progress and literary
merit a delightful holiday.
	We proffer to our guests the hand of


