[Column 1]
also to our hopes and wishes regarding
each other. You know my belief, and I
cannot—dare not, act contrary to my con-
victions.”
	“Grace, dear Grace, why will you
cleave to these deluded notions? Why in-
sist on making yourself and me unhappy
from a mere whim?”
	“Whim! I hope and pray that you
may some day know the value and force of
the whims which now separate us. Until
that time comes, John Heplar, I will say
goodbye, and when we meet hereafter it
will be as acquaintances only, or as strang-
ers, as you please.”
	Before he could realize it, she fled from the
room and he was left alone. Only as he
left the house did he begin to realize the
depth of the gulf between himself and his
love. Yet even while he cursed the luck
which had prompted him to broach the ill-
fated subject of their marriage to Grace
while in her unusual temper, he was not
without hope of relenting on her part.
Heretofore she had been so kind and chari-
table, even chiding him for his short-
comings in a manner not the least objec-
tionable to him, that he could not believe
she would long hold out in her present
resolution. He was not much of a student
of humankind, and had not yet learned
that the mildest external appearance may
cover a nature deep and determined, especi-
ally when based upon convictions of right.
	John Heplar was of a peculiar disposi-
tion. He had many odd ways for one so
young. Prominent among these was a
habit of talking to himself. What other
people merely thought, he generally spoke
aloud. A rather promising sign, you will
think, indicating an openness of character
incompatible with hypocrisy or deceit. Well
we will see.
	As he walked along the lonely highway,
absorbed in his troubles, he might have
met his dearest friend without any sign of
recognition. He looked straight before
him, at nothing in particular, and thus
soliloquized:
	“Well I’ve done it now, or that’s what
it looks like! I wonder if I ever can get
myself straightened out in her opinion.
May be she’ll get over it if I try to behave
myself in the future.”—Then after a pause,
his feelings change.
	“I wish somebody would tell me why it
is so many good fathers and mothers have
such beastly children. Look at me now,
for instance,” addressing an imaginary
personage beyond the horizon, “my father
and mother walked a thousand miles over
the rough prairies, and toted me along into
the bargain, all for the sake of their
religion. They left good homes and sur-
roundings to come out to this God-forsaken
region, because they thought they ought 
to. To me the religion and the country
has always been detestable. They won’t
even drink tea and coffee because they
think its all wrong, while to me everything
that is forbidden in their code, is just what
most desire.”
	His ruminations were here cut short by
the weight of a hand on his shoulder and a
cheery voice in his ear. He turned quick-
ly with an exclamation of surprise and a
frown on his brow, which changed to the
ghost of a smile when he discovered who it
was.
	“Why, Brother Harper, how you start-
led me.”
	“No wonder, you were in such a brown

