[Column 1]
the peaceful bars of their adopted countries
there would be no returning for them, un-
less the fickle Goddess of chance chose to
bestow her smiles upon them.
	What could teach the natural bravery of
the Greeks more than the voluntary ser-
vices of their men who have made their
homes in a land of plenty and reared their
families under the Star Spangled Banner.
Men who have learned to love and appreci-
ate freedom in all that the word implies,
and have given up all and gone to die if
need be for their mother land. The old
flag that is so dear to every American heart
has taken upon itself new glories for the
hundreds of brave men who have sailed to
Greece under its protection, for many of
those men while fighting for their own
native land have gone to their death loving
the flag of their adopted country, where
they have left all that is dear to them ex- 
cept their love and veneration for the
Fatherland. People are rather apt to cen-
sure the weak side of any contest without
a proper appreciation of the circumstances
surrounding the case. They will, so soon
as the one side has suffered defeat, immedi-
ately jump to the conclusion that something
has been done or left undone that might
have won for them the victory. Such
criticisms have been made of Greece, 
whereas the greatest possible amount of
praise should be unhesitatingly bestowed
upon her for having the courage to resent
a wrong and go to war in behalf of justice
and right, with a people whose army was
well equipped and well officered, was
drilled, advised and upheld by the Powers
of Europe and largely outnumbered the
Greek forces.
	Had it been the good fortune of Greece
to have conquered her Turkish enemy,
whose men deem it a pleasure as well as an
honor to rush into instant death because
their religion teaches them that beyond the
grave there is for them “ A Paradise where
sensual pleasures shall know no satiety.”
She would have bestowed a priceless favor
on the civilized world and gained for her-
self new glories that would have marked
the beginning of a new and brighter era for
her people But fate willed it otherwise
and the Powers had their way, and the
money Kings of Europe were saved, for the
time being at least.
	Thessaly not being recaptured by the
Greeks in the war of 1822 and 1823 but
ceded to her by the Turks in 1881, has
caused more or less dissatisfaction among
the Turkish people and that, coupled with
their late victory, has undoubtedly caused
the arrogant Sultan to demand the annex-
ation of Thessaly to Turkey as part pay-
ment of the indemnity more than his love
of adding to Turkish Territory.
	The Greek women as well as the men
are very enthusiastic and often take part
in the wars of their country, but if all re-
ports are true they have excelled them-
selves in the present conflict, as more then
one of the unspeakable Turks have fallen
by the hand of women. France, Brazil
Cuba and Greece have all had their Joan of
Arc, but Greece perhaps has possessed the
greater number of women who have taken
an  active part in the war.
	Evidently there are but few people in
Greece at the present time outside of the
army, as Miss Helene Eliopouloy, a Greek
maiden who recently emigrated to this
country, says that she has a father, three
uncles, three brothers-in-law and twenty-

