[Column 2]
an anxious one, as she glanced restlessly,
first in one direction, then in another. Sud-
denly her blue eyes brightened, as she
caught sight of a horseman in the distance,
instantly followed by a look of impatience
as she saw he was not alone.
	“Oh, dear!” she sighed, “why will
John associate with those Adams boys.
Everybody knows they are the worst boys
in town, yet he will persist in befriending
them. It puts me out of all patience.”
	By this time the horsemen were nearly
opposite where Grace was standing. They
came along at full gallop, whooping at the
top of their voices, curvetting here and
there and cutting all sorts of antics. They
did not see the girl until they were close
upon her, or it is quite likely they would
have exhibited better behavior. As it was
they drew up their horses sharply, bowed
in a shamefaced manner, and made out as
though they would stop and engage in con-
versation. Grace looked straight at them,
without a sign of recognition, and as they
approached, turned on her heel, and walk-
ed away toward the house.
	“Humph!” exclaimed Joe, the eldest of
the Adams’, “proud as Lucifer, ain’t she?
S’pose she’s ashamed of us. All right
Miss Alison, when I attempt to speak to
you again, it will be a long time from now.
Come Jack lets go down to the Square.”
Away he galloped, followed closely by his
brother, neither noticing, in their headlong
haste, that John Heplar did not follow
them. That young gentleman, complete-
ly sobered by the cool treatment they had 
just received, rode slowly away in an op-
posite direction. Several times he reined
in his horse, on the point of turning back
and seeking an interview with Grace; but
as often he changed his mind, being asham-
ed of his conduct and afraid of her scorn.
	It had been his intention to invite Grace
to the party; but he had fallen in with his
evil genii who had towed him about all
day, until they had made him half drunk
and wholly miserable. He resolved now
to stay at home, and not show himself at
the party at all.
	He flung himself down upon his bed, but
he could not sleep. The demon of jealousy
took possession of him; he felt that he
must know if Grace had gone, and who
had been her escort. If it was that Charlie
Benson,—his blood surged hotly through
his veins at the bare thought, and he felt
as if he should smother. He arose quickly,
put on his hat, and started for the scene of
merry-making.
	He looked eagerly among the crowd
congregated under the great bowery. Yes
sure enough, there she was, and dancing,
though he could not deny that she looked
grave and troubled. She was not dancing
with Charlie Benson, much to his relief,
but with an elder, married brother. He sat
down in a corner to watch, and nurse his
misery, neither occupation proving very
agreeable. He sought later for an oppor-
tunity to speak to Grace, but was not suc-
cessful. She seemed deliberately to shun
him, and put obstacles in the way of a
reconciliation. He went home miserable

[Column 3]
enough, and continued in that condition
for several days. When he thought he
could endure it no longer, he summoned
all his courage, went boldly to her father’s
house, and asked to see her.
	Miss Alison received her guest in the
stateliest and coolest manner compatible
with good breeding. It was quite evident
that poor John had offended deeply the
girl who held the first place in his affec-
tions. Being somewhat prepared for his
present reception from previous experience, 
he was not so abashed as one would ex-
pect and being also courageous in many
ways, he at once plunged headlong into 
the subject which had brought him there.
	“Grace,” he said eagerly, “I am
ashamed of my conduct on the Fourth. I
know I have offended you, and have come 
to ask your pardon.”
	“And if I grant it,” she said, in a cool,
even tone, made so by a great effort,
“What guarantee have I that the same
thing will not be re-enacted on the very
next holiday. You have been ashamed so
many times John Heplar, have offended
and been forgiven so often, that it is like the 
rehearsal of an oft-repeated play, and
amounts to about the same result—
nothing.”
	“You are hard on a fellow,” he mutter- 
ed, “I own I acted foolishly, but I did no
harm, unless to myself.” 
	“No harm,” exclaimed the girl, “do
you consider it is no harm to associate with
those who profane the name of their
Maker; who make demons of that 
which should be second only to the angels;
who break the hearts of their parents, their
sisters and wives; and above all, who set
such a perilous example for my little
brother to follow? For shame, John Hep-
lar.”
	He sat looking at her stupidly as she
poured out this torrent of hot words. It
was an unusual thing for Grace Alison to
express herself so forcibly, being noted for
her equable temper, and the event seemed 
to daze him. When she had finished he
answered quietly.
	“Well Grace, I grant there is truth in
what you say, especially the example part, 
though I own I have never thought of it in 
that light before. I remember I promised
you to forsake my old companions, and I 
have not done so. In relation to the other
matter, I have not been able to see through
it, as you predicted. I have tried your 
plan faithfully, and must say that I am as
much in the dark as ever. You and I
might just as well give up that scheme, 
and try to be happy without so much re-
ligion thrown in."
	“Do you mean to say,” said Grace,
slowly and with an effort, “that you have
thrown aside all hope of being able to see
and embrace the faith of your father and
mother—of your staunch—faithful—father,
and your brave—devoted mother?”
	“I am sorry to say that is my lamentable
condition,” he replied sadly.
	“Then John Heplar,” and her voice
trembled a little, and a mist obscured her
sight, “We may just as well say good bye


