IN THE TABERNACLE.
	THERE was probably a larger gathering
of the old folks in the Tabernacle this year
than on any previous occasion, and the
picture was a pleasing one. The visitors
occupied the front seats in the centre of the
building, and the delight manifest in their
appearance was in itself compensation to
the Committee. Carnations were distri-
buted by a committee of ladies, and the
fragrance and beauty of the flowers must
have been grateful to the silver haired men
and women. Held’s band was there with
its choice selections, and the “Old Folks
choir” did not neglect to sing “Auld Lang
Syne” and other popular melodies, and
Brother Wm. Dunbar had his bagpipes,
and the Deseret Guitar and Mandolin Club
together with the Tabernacle choir was the
complete musical part of the program.
President George Q. Cannon presided,
Elder George Goddard offered prayer after
singing by the choir; and in remembering
the Old Folks, did not forget Queen Vic-
toria’s Jubilee and the birthday of Bishop
Edward Hunter.
	President Wilford Woodruff was present
in person, and though he was not able, be-
cause of a cold, to speak, had prepared a
written address which was read by Elder
David McKenzie, the speech of welcome
by President George Q. Cannon, was given
in his most gracious and cordial manner wel-
coming the veterans and refering to long
life as a blessing from the Lord to those
who had obeyed His laws and sought to
serve Him..
	We regret lack of space to give his ad-
dress and other interesting facts of the eve-
ning, but we give the address of the vener-
able Pioneer and President in full as it ap-
peared in the Deseret Evening News.
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S ADDRESS.
	President Wilford Woodruff, one of the
few who has passed the ninetieth milestone
of life, was on the program for an address,
but being the sufferer from a bad cold, his
address was a prepared one which was read
by Elder David McKenzie. It was as fol-
lows:
	“My Dear Friends—I thank God that I
have lived to see this day. I rejoice to be-
hold the faces of so many of my friends
gathered together in this great Tabernacle.
We who have been upon this earth from
seventy to ninety years and upwards have

