SISTER ANN HAMNETT.
	After being afflicted many years our beloved
sister, Ann Hamnett departed this life Feb 18,
1897. She was born April 11, 1824, in Brox-
bottom, England, was baptized the year 1840,
was one of the first to embrace the Gospel in that
land, President John Taylor being the one who
brought her the Gospel; she was baptized by
Orson Pratt, he being the first missionary to visit
that land. She was kept a prisoner, her parents
not being willing for her to associate with the
Latter-day Saints. When an opportunity was
afforded her she would steal away and go and
hear the word of God. For seven years she had
not her liberty to do as the Spirit of God directed
but when she was married she was free to choose
her life and what she would be. She and her
husband set sail for Salt Lake City the 15th of
March, crossed the plains with ox teams and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City on the 6th of October,
being eight months on the toilsome journey.
They resided in Salt Lake City until the Saints
had to leave their homes for Johnson’s army to
pass through the city, then mo ed to Alpine
ward and has made it her home ever since. She
was a faithful worker in the Relief Society, being
a teacher for many years, always willing to labor
in the Gospel  She leaves four children, two
sons and two daughters. May they honor her
memory and follow her example, for she was in-
deed a faithful companion, true to her covenants
and respected by all who knew her. As we
gazed on her beautiful white face, and thought of
her many good deeds, we wondered if all the
good actions were recorded in the tablets of
heaven.
						R. Y. NASH.
SISTER MARY BURT.
	Sister Mary Burt died at her home at Eden,
Weber Co., May 17 1897, after an illness of three
weeks which she bore w[i]th patience and fortitude.
She was the daughter of James and Ellen Mc-
Bride, was born n Barney parish, Tillcross,
Scotland, Aug st 28, 1821 Was mar ied to James
Burt August 4, 1841. Em grated o Utah with
her husband, two son  and four daughters. Came
to this ward seventeen years ago and has been
an active worker in the Relief Society, acting as
teacher, always ready and willing to visit the
poor and those in need of assistance, which labor
she performed as long as her health would per-
mit, and which office she held until the day of
her dep rture from this 1 fe.
	Sister Burt died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint, a de oted wife and loving
mother. She leaves two sons, f ur daughters,
forty-five gra dchildren and nine great-grand-
children to mourn her loss, b t with hope of a
glorious resurrection.
	In behalf of the Relief Society we tender our
deepest sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family, also the following:
	Wave ye softly plumy grasses, 
		O’er yon sleeper’s lonely mound;
	Sigh ye gently prarie breezes,
		Let not c amor there be found.
	Flowers of summer star her over,
		L ke the gems on robe of king;
	Songsters hither your sweet music
		In the golden dawning b ing
	She lies silent ’neath the blossoms, 
		Wit other friends beside;
	Fainting in ife’s mellow glory,
		Sought a land beyond the ti e.
	Love, true, mighty and eternal,
		Stretching over the dark sea
	Re c ing to the gates of heaven,
		Friends are knocking there for thee.
	But the soul though faint with longing,
		Still must tarry here a day;
	Till our soul-life growing stronger,
		Then we soar to her away.
	Knowing she is home in heaven.
		Where no storms can e’er betide;
	We in peace can wait till Jesus,
 		Calls us to our loved ones side.
				SARAH J. SHUPE, Pres’t.
