RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Katherine Hickerson
who departed this life April 2, 1897, at Kanosh,
aged eighty years, one month and twenty-nine
days. She was the daughter of William and
Malinda Hickerson was born in Tennessee Feb.
3, 1817, came to Utah in 1856 and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Aug. 1857. She was first married to Sam-
son Miles by whom she had eight children, one
son and three daughters still living to mourn her
departure. She was afterwards sealed in plural
marriage to Thomas Woolsey, and lived
for a number of years in his family. She
was a faithful member in the Relief Soc ety of
the Kanosh ward and was always willing to do
her duty.
	Whereas, we acknowledge her loss, and readi-
ness at all times to give a helping hand, therefore
be it
	RESOLVED, That we sympathize with her fam-
ly and friends. Be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be recorded
in th Relief Society records, and a copy sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
					ALICE RAPPLEYE, Sec. 
Kanosh, April 21, 1897.
MARY C. BLADEN.
	On the 12th day of April another of our, belov-
ed sisters and co-workers was called from our
midst, Sister Mary C. Bladen, a pioneer of this
place and a member of the Relief Society since
its first organization
	Sister Bladen was born in Arlshire, England,
and became a member of this Church in that
country. She emigrated to Utah with her hus-
band, Thomas Bladen, in the year 1851, coming
direct to Cedar City. For several years Sister
Bladen acted as teacher and afterwards as coun-
selor to Sister Jones (lately deceased;) she was
loved and respected by all who became acquaint-
ed with her. Though having lived to the age of
eighty-three years she was very active and al-
ways cheerfully engaged in administering to the
comforts of those around her until within two
weeks previous to her death. Her children, five
of whom are residents of this place, were with
her at the time of her death; and though we all
realize they have lost a loving mother and wise
counselor, yet we know it is her gain, and her
loving words of comfort cherished in their mem-
ory will be as a guiding star in their course through
life.
	Sister Bladen has lived to see quite a number
of great-grandchildren, her family connections
being very numerous. We feel to sincerely sym-
pathize with them in their bereavement.
			J.C. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
SISTER ISABELLA PRATT PRICE.
	In, memory of Sister Isabella Pratt Price who
departed this life February 25, 1897 She was
the daughter of George and Margaret Nelson
Pratt and was born in Armbey, Yorkshire, Eng-
land, October 26, 1824. She was baptized and
confirmed a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 8, 1845, at York-
shire, England.
	Sister Price joyfully received the Gospel but
could not understand the principle of gathering,
thought the Lord would save her in England
