[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | February | Issue: 14 | Title: City Pride | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

CITY PRIDE.
		Alice Merrill Horne.
	I hold as a fundamental principle of good
government that each citizen, whether rich
poor, sick, well, old or young, should be re-
quired by the commonwealth of which he
or she is a necessary unit, to do his or her
just portion of labor in making and sustain-
ing a healthful and beautiful city. Our city
has not yet come into a full understanding of
her own. She has individual moral and
physical responsibility. We ought to have
efficient municipal officers. Further than
that, we have an individual duty to give
aid, so far as we may, singly and unitedly,
in the solution of these difficult problems.
	Though we are far from the Millennium,
may we not, as a united body of women,
hasten the reign of righteousness by, a
proper use of the suffrage? Is it not pos-
sible for us to use that sacred trust so sa-
credly that no self-seeking man shall pre-
sume to rear his head before a public office?
	What would you think of an ordinance-
to compel residents or landholders to keep
out weeds? What result would follow com-
pulsory house-screening, stable-screening,
and garbage-screening for a few years?
	What follows weekly moving of garbage
and manure from premises? We look upon
each citizen as an asset in the municipal cor-
poration. The citizens constitute the mu-
nicipal corporation’s greatest wealth. She 
has no more important problem than to pro-
vide the best means for preserving the
health and thus lengthening the lives of her
citizens. Those most interested along-these
lines prescribe a clean and beautiful city.
	“Man is that he might have joy.” So
spoke the prophet, and we accept it as true
philosophy also.
	That man might have joy, the home is
made, the city is founded, municipal gov-
ernment is established, and what, tell me,
gives man more joy than a clean and beau-
tiful home, a clean and beautiful yard, a
clean and beautiful city? These indeed
make life sweet and build a perfect setting
for Godliness.
	I would like to bring to the hearts of
those present the opportunity that this won-
derful Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve-
ment Association has squarely before it,
even the privilege to organize and utilize an
enormous amount of energy (that is daily
wasted, misdrected, or lost) toward en-
riching soil, destroying weeds, placing, trees
and hedges, planting vegetable gardens, de-
signing flower beds and window boxes,
making lawns.
	We could, if we would, make of this city
a veritable garden of Eden. Let us set
aside beauty for a moment and become sor-
did. It would pay—alas that is the measure
into which everything must fit, for we are
in a Commercial process and at the com-
mercial stage. Yes, it would pay! A yard,
six rods by ten, this season produced fully
$50 in fruit and vegetables, and gave the


[Column 1]
same profit for flowers, and over one hun-
dred large bunches of flowers sent to
friends besides. So, it is a conservative
estimate that I give you when I say that
within two years from its entire setting out,
in the form of a park, a block would be sav-
ings its residents one thousand dollars per
year, and furnishing bouquets, too, for
friends.
	The residents on any block could unite.
Here we are friends, relatives, neighbors
of long standing. Let us take out the un-
sightly fences, mark our property lines with
rows of flowers, lay out the block as a park
—a combined vegetable garden, orchard,
vineyard, flower garden and lawn! It would
not only be a thing of beauty and a joy for-
ever, if it were unceasingly cared for; and
who would be content with the stale and
expensive market product after enjoying
the fresh vegetables and fruit from his own
vine and tree?
	I believe that the greatest difference be-
tween poverty and plenty, between poor
living and good living, is a home garden.
Then, just for a moment, think of that de-
graded poverty that never allows God’s
children to see even a bud unfold. Who
could have joy in such an unlovely life?
	It does cost work, it does take time. But
it brings joy! Digging is good for women,
for both old and young. Both of my grand-
mothers were gardeners of no mean order,
and both passed the eightieth mark and one
nearly reached ninety.
	There must be early rising. Say, did you
ever see a sunrise out in your own quiet
garden, where everything seemed waiting,
expectant, for the sunlight? Yes, garden-
ing pays, and in more ways than one.
	In parking a block, after the fences are
removed the soil should be fertilized by
manure and dead leaves that are available,
and must also be carted away. What a
waste to burn the leaves, and how dreadful
it makes the atmosphere. Walks should be
laid out and don’t be stingy about the
walks; make them broad and spacious. It
will add greatly to the beauty of your home.
Small, sunny patches should be filled in
with strawberries, rhubarb and asparagus,
and more shady spots will like English cur-
rants, goosberries, raspberries, sage, pars-
ley, mint, summer savory and thyme. Grapes
in the hottest soil and sunniest places, hung
on a long pergola or lattice, would be
charming. A small grove of English wal-
nuts and almonds, will pay large dividends
in good nuts, after eight years, and con-
tinue bearing many years. They are dec-
orative from the first. Mr. J. T. Harwood
has varieties of English walnuts that have
become acclimated to these parts and they
will not therefore freeze down in cold
weather, as all imported nut trees will.
	Now, right here is the ideal home of the
fruit trees. My grandfather, George A.
Smith, set out a splendid orchard of peaches,
pears, apples, apricots and plums.
	The centers of all our blocks are now
ugly weed patches; they offer a field for ro-
tating crops of corn, squash, potatoes, peas,
string beans, greens, carrots, beets, and onions.
	Now for flowers and lawns—the east side
has shown us what can be done with Salt
Lake. But before that, long years ago, oth-
ers blazed the way! Let us hark back to
when James Dwyer planted a rose garden in

[Column 2]
Salt Lake. Roses must not be planted
singly, but in rose gardens, and then we
have roses indeed.
	Have you forgotten the big lawn the Car-
rington girls made, irrigated and tended?
I think I sniff now the lovely, pure white
climbing roses on the south wall of the old
home—and there were the great red pe-
onies, too. Can you think back to the great
trees of white and purple lilacs, and the cab-
bage roses, all abloom in Grandmother Mer-
rill’s dooryard? Who has not been made
glad with a bunch of rare chrysanthemums
or roses from some wonderful flower gar-
den? On the old Irving school block, you
may find the finest General Jocks, asters and
sweet peas.
	Then there are the wonderful old moun-
tain willows—but few remain. A few re-
mained standing in the old University
grounds—now Salt Lake High school. How
I loved to pass near them, but alas the day
that I found the most beautiful ones among
them the monarchs of the grounds (and
there were many trees that were indeed
lovely) lying broken, helpless to lift their
dainty green, which always were the first
to open their buds in spring. Think of de-
stroying a half block of trees with a history
just to make a place in which boys and
girls might drill and play when a few blocks
away a hundred blocks lay empty, except of
sagebrush! Trees that, if they could speak,
could tell the story of the red men, of hunt-
ers with the flint and arrow, of dry, parched
desert places, of the entrance to this valley
of the pale face, of the first breaking of vir-
gin soil, the birth of irrigation, the hiding
of the desert’s nakedness beneath a mantle
of green—in a word, sentinels, witnesses of
all that our fathers have done. Yea, year
by year the grand old willows had lov-
ingly reached out in newer beauty, making
shadier seats under their wonderful willow
green tops—seats you and I have sought
for study periods. And now my heart
ached, my voice choked with tears when my
startled vision beheld them ruthlessly cut
down, destroyed forever. Now no re-
pentant hand could succor them or recall
the work of the cruel ax. Few remaining
trees were spared. Three stand on the
north side, just over the sidewalk, and one
on the west. They have, it is true, been
butchered, cut out of all true shape, but they
still retain the same wonderful color, the
same tender artistic feeling.
	We have but a few treasures left, a few
of the old trees, let us care for them and
make a beautiful setting for them. Shall we
then pull down the ugly fences, lay out
good walks, make lawns, plant rose gar-
dens, shrubs, flowers, orchards, vineyards,
and kitchen gardens? Let us do it now, and
make a beginning on our garden of Eden.
We have a beautiful city, by the inspiration
of God she has been set upon hills, slopes
that look out on a wonderful inland sea.
She is guarded and girded around by
mighty mountains, crowned with everlasting
snows, veiled with marvelous shades of
blue. She is blessed with clear, cooling
streams, fresh from ten thousand springs.
Her soils vary from sandy, graveled, loamy
to clayey earth and all can be made to grow
some lovely thing.
	Can we honestly lift our eyes in praise and
thanksgiving to God for these blessings and
permit the very earth under our feet, our
own inheritance, the sod encompassing our


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


