[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | February | Issue: 14 | Title: Capital Cities in Colonial Days | Author: Unknown]

CAPITAL CITIES IN COLONIAL DAYS.
	In the first place there was really not
one single city that could properly be called
the capital, though the one that comes near-
est claiming that distinction is Philadelphia,
and she had to divide the honor with New
York. Surely we can not speak of the
colonial cities without saying something of
Boston. For, as Governor Hutchinson
said, in 1773: “For many years past the
town of Boston has been used to interest
itself in every affair of moment which con-
cerned the Province in general.” Certainly
Boston sought to do all that it could to give
form to the action of the colonists in other
parts not only of Massachusetts but of all
America. The story of the city of Boston
can not be told, therefore, without reference
to several events that were going on in other
parts of the land. The story of Boston calls
us to a study of our independence, to a con-
templation, first, of a vigorous struggle by
strong men and women for a century and a
half, against a powerful monarchy; and next
to an examination of the fruits of that con-
flict in the development of a typical Amer-
ican civilization. Up to the year 1629 or
1630, England had done but little in the
way of settling the new lands in the west,
though she made great claims upon Amer-
ca, through the discoveries of Cabot. There
had, it is true, been considerable exploration
under Elizabeth, but it was not until the
reign of James I that anything creditable
and enduring was actually accomplished.
	The 26th day of August, 1629, is an im-
portant date in the history of Boston. On
that day the decision was taken that deter-
mined the settlement of the town. Had it
not been for a conclusion then reached by
a company of discreet gentlemen who met
at Cambridge, England, the promontory
called Shawmut by the Indians, might have
been peopled by quite a different class of
settlers from those who made it their first
home in America. In speaking of these first
settlers of Massachusetts, James Russell
Lowell said:
	“There never was a colony, save this, that
went forth, not to seek gold, but God.” And


[Column 1]
Josiah Quincy said: “Civil independence was
as truly their object as religious liberty.”
	In the year 1630 Puritan colonists came
from England under the leadership of
Thomas Dudley and John Winthrop, and
founded the town of Boston. The new-
comers first called it Trimount, from the
three peaks which Beacon Hill originally
showed. The name was afterward changed
to Boston for old Boston in England, in
honor of Winthrop’s leaders, who came
from that place. For nearly two centuries
Boston remained under the simple form of
a town government by all the citizens as-
sembled in “town meeting.” The city char-
ter was not granted until 1832. It is impos-
sible to give a very general description of 
the city, but the original site, with its unin-
viting natural features and what the people 
made of it, is a fairly good indication of
their courage, energy and ability. Boston
was built on a pear-shaped peninsula in-
dented by coves and bordered by salt
marshes. Its surface was rocky, abrupt and
irregular, and such it was until after the
Revolution. The streets were narrow and
crooked, many of them merely lanes and
alleys. The buildings scattered and de-
tached, only four being of stone, in 1776.
Of these, Kings chapel yet remains. Com-
paratively few were of brick, the latter in-
cluding Fanuel Hall, the town (now called
old State house), Christ’s Church and the
Old South Meeting House—still treasured
land-marks.
	At the time of the Revolution Boston was
the richest and most powerful and populous
city in the colonies. Yet it contained only
2,000 buildings and less than 20,000 inhab-
tants. In and near this old town were en-
acted the first stirring scenes in our war for
independence. From here the British went
out to meet the ‘embattled farmers of Lex-
ington and Concord, and fought the battle
of Bunker Hill, followed by the seige of
Boston, and the evacuation forced by Wash-
ington, March 17, 1776.
	From its foundation, the tone of society
in Boston was serious, owing to the Puritan
influence. She was inclined to regard her
rival cities as frivolous in their pursuits,
owing to her advantages. Situated upon so
large and excellent a harbor, Boston has al-
ways been a great commercial and industrial
city. The first bank in America, historians
say, was established in Boston, in 1686. Ed-
ucationally, she has always taken first rank.
In colonial days, to which we must confine
ourselves at this time, certainly no other
city wielded a more powerful influence in
 the shaping of our young nation’s destiny,
than did the chief city of the old Bay State.
	New York. The original Indian name
of New York City was Manhattan. The
first European visitor was Gioiasini Vera-
zani, who entered New York Bay in 1525,
but he made no landing. The real discov-
erer and explorer of those regions was
Heindrich Hudson, a mariner employed by
a Dutch trading company. He explored
New York Bay and the great river which
bears his name, in 1609, in his little ship, the
Half Moon. Ten years later Adrian Block
visited Manhattan, made a landing and es-
tablished a trading station. In 1614, States
General of Holland chartered the United
New Netherland Company to engage in
trade at Manhattan, and a fort and trad- 
ing house were built on the southern point
of the island, and called Fort Amsterdam.
A permanent village settlement was effected

[Column 2]
in 1623 under the name of New Amster-
dam. The first white male child born, on
the island was Jean Vigne, in 1614. The
first white girl, Sarah Rapalje, was born in
1625. Peter Minnit, the first important gov-
ernor of the new colony arrived in 1626,
and from that time the growth of the town
was rapid. In 1652, New Amsterdam was
incorporated as a city, and the next year
was inclosed at the north by a wall of earth
and timber 2340 feet long, on the present site
of Wall Street.
	We know that England, by right of dis-
covery, claimed this territory, as well as that
to the north and south of it, so she did not
encourage any claims of those who had set-
tled upon these lands unless by her own
grants. On March 12, 1664, this whole col-
ony of New Amsterdam was granted, by
Charles IV, then king of England, to his
brother, the Duke of York, and in August of
that year was forcibly seized by a British
fleet. The place was then named New York
in honor of its new owner. The Dutch were
not disposed to submit tamely and without a
struggel to this seizure of what they
deemed their rightful possessions, and in
1673, the Dutch seized it again and renamed
it New Orange, but a year later it was re-
stored to the English—and for good, this
time. An organized government and code
of laws were established in 1691, and on
April 9th of that year the first colonial as-
sembly met in the city. In 1825 the first
newspaper, the New York Gazette, was
founded; in 1730 a fortnightly stage ser-
vice to Philadelphia was established; in 1752
the Royal Exchange was opened at the foot
of Broad Street; in 1754, Kings (now Co-
lumbia) College was chartered and in 1768
the chamber of commerce was organized.
Nowhere is the truth more plain than that
the story of a community is told in the
lives of its inhabitants. The story of Bos-
ton, for instance, deals with the doings of
a community of very earnest men who, for
a century and a half, had no considerable
interests except those connected with poli-
tics and religion. This influence was notice-
able in every phase of life in Massachusetts.
In New York it was quite different. The
people were as diversified in temperament,
interests, religion and principle as they were
united in Boston. The difference is as
marked from the beginning of the history
of the two cities. Social activity, club life
and every phase of commercialism is to be
seen from the beginning in New York. 
There was a peculiarly aristocratic structure
in New York society, which gave many of
its most brilliant names to our nation’s his-
tory, like the Livingstons, Chintons, Schuy-
lers, and many others. There was also more
of the lower strains of humanity in the city
than others of colonial days, and the effect
was most pronounced. There were Dutch
Reformed and Huguenot congregations,
Presbyterians, Catholics, and a large follow-
ing of Episcopalians, each found their own
proper place in New York. The spirit of
resistance to British rule made its appear-
ance in New York at an early date. The
Stamp Act congress was organized in 1865;
so was the league known as the Sons of
Liberty. The Stamp Act was publicly
burned, cargoes of taxed tea were thrown
over-board, a liberty pole was erected on
the common, near the City Hall Park, and
rigorous public demonstrations were made
against the British garrison. One of the
earliest conflicts of the war occurred in John

[Column 3]
Street, between Sons of Liberty and British
troops, on the same day the equestrian statue
of George III, on Bowling Green, was
pulled down and transformed into bullets
for the use of the American army. In the
spring of 1776 the bulk of the patriot army
was massed in New York, and on July 8th
the Declaration of Independence was pub-
licly proclaimed and read to the troops. Af-
ter the battle of Long Island the American
troops were gradually withdrawn, and
passed into the hands of the British, who
held it under rigid military rule until No-
vember 25, 1783, when the last of their
garrison evacuated the city, and the Amer-
can troops took possession. A few weeks
later Washington took farewell of his offi-
cers at Francis Tavern, at the corner of
Broad and Pearl Streets. From 1790 New
York has ranked as the most populous city
in the United States. Of what she is today
we cannot speak, except to say that now, as
from the beginning, the beauty, in fact every
phase of the city’s life, is as varied as the
people themselves. After the birth of the
Union, the selection of a capital was not
easily settled. The north, the south, and the
middle states wanted it. The site at Wash-
ington was selected as a courtesy to the
south. New York, however, was chosen as
the first capital of the young republic. In
January, 1785 (still in the colonial period,
be it remembered), Congress removed from
Philadelphia to New York and met in Fed-
eral Hall, at the corner of Wall and Nassau
Streets, now the site of the United States
sub-treasury. In the same building Wash-
ington was inaugurated as president on
April 30, 1789, and there the first Congress
under the Constitution held its first meet-
ings. New York remained the first capital
for five years, after which Philadelphia
claimed the honor again, and held it until
the permanent removal to Washington.
	Philadelphia. If we must decide upon
any one single city where most interest cen-
tralized during the latter colonial days and
those of the revolution. I think we would
unhesitatingly name “the city of brotherly
love, Philadelphia. In 1636 Queen Chris-
tiana of Sweden, sent a boat of Swedish
colonists to the village of Wiceaco, now a
part of the main city, an Indian town which
also once stood within the present city limits.
In 1677 the Swedes erected a log church
which also served as a fort. In 1700 this
was torn down, and a brick structure erect-
ed on the site known as the old Swedish
Church, which still stands in the southern
part of the city on the banks of the Dela-
ware.
	The Dutch vessel Onrust, with Captain
Hendrickson commanding, explored the
Delaware, in 1623, and in 1651 the Dutch
built Fort Casinni, which was captured by
the Swedes in 1654, retaken by the Dutch
the same year, captured by the English in
1664, surrendered to the Dutch again in
1673, and finally given over to the English
by the treaty of 1674. William Penn’s dep-
uty governor and cousin, Captain William
Markham, arrived at Philadelphia in Oc-
tober, 1681, and Penn’s commissioners in
the early summer of 1682. William Penn
himself, with a large company of Friends,
or Quakers, reached Newcastle on the Del-
aware on October 27, 1682. The City of
Philadelphia had been named, surveyed,
plotted and the lots occupied by some set-
tlers in July, 1682. The Dutch and Ger-
man pioneers who had been invited by Penn


[Column 1]
to remove to Pennsylvania, arrived at
Philadelphia October 6, 1683, and settled
Germantown, now a ward of the city. This
emigration is notable because four of the
emigrants, Gerhard Hendricks, Dirk Op-
dere Graeff, Francis Daniel Pastorins and
Abraham Opden Graep, on April 18, 1688,
sent to the Friends meeting the first public
protest ever made in America against the
holding of slaves; also, because, in 1690,
the first paper mill in America was erected
by William Rittinghuysen, a Dutch emi-
grant. Here was made the paper used by
William Bradford, the earliest printer in
the middle colonies, and because Sarver, the
governor printer of Germantown, printed in
German three quarto editions of the Bible
before an edition in English had been print-
ed in America. Religious and civil liberty
were encouraged by William Penn’s gov-
ernment, but the leaders of society in Phil-
adelphia were not clergymen, as in Massa-
chusetts, but lawyers, like John Dickenson,
and they had great respect for the estab-
lished laws, and thought that all legal meth-
ods for settling difficulties should be ex-
hausted before force was resorted to. This
made them temperate and wise in council
and debate, and gave to their capital city
the reputation for moderation which she
has always held.
	Opposition to the Stamp Act took form in
1765, the act of parliament imposing duties
upon paper and tea was resisted in 1768,
and when, in 1773 the news reached Phila-
delphia that the tea ships were on their
way, the people met in the state house on
October 17 and adopted resolutions which
were unanimously re-adopted by the Boston
meeting on November 5. The tea ship
Polly, commanded by Captain Ayers, from
London, anchored near Philadelphia two
days after Christmas, but was not allowed
to discharge her cargo.
	Carpenter’s Hall was the meeting place of
the first Continental Congress, of 1774, and
the state house that of the second Congress,
which met May 2, 1776, agreed on the reso-
lution declaring that the United Colonies
“are and of right ought to be free and inde-
pendent states.” On July 8, the Declara-
tion of Independence was first publicly read
by John Nixon from the platform of the
observatory which then stood in the square
back of the hall. From the beginning of
the war, Philadelphia was the center of
stirring events. Trenton, Brandywine and
Valley Forge are all within an hour’s ride
from that city. Lord Howe entered Phil-
adelphia September 26, 1777, and Con-
gress fled to New York. The British with-
drew in June, 1778, and Congress then
again returned. When the American army
took possession of the city, Benedict Arnold
was placed in command, and you know the
tragic outcome of his vanity and extrava-
gances. As already stated, in 1785 Con-
gress met in New York, but in May, 1787,
the convention which formed the Constitu-
tion of the United States met in Philadel-
phia, in the state house. Under the federal
Constitution, Philadelphia was the capital
of the United States from 1790 to 1800,
and in the building, still standing at the
southeast corner of Sixth and Chestnut
streets, George Washington was inaugu-
rated as President for a second term, and
John Adams and Thomas Jefferson as
President and Vice President. America
has had a most wonderful growth, and
beautiful cities cover the land, but the natal

[Column 2]
city of the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution of the United States will
always hold a first place in the hearts of
loyal Americans. But aside from the pa-
triotic side, Philadelphia ranks among the
foremost cities in every line of progressive
development, socially and educationally,
she has had few rivals. In colonial days
she was unquestionably the leader in scien-
tific and social culture. John Adams wrote
his wife that he was amazed to find so much
depth and breadth of knowledge beneath
what to the New Englander seemed extrav-
agance and frivolity in social life.
	As one of Philadelphia’s daughters
wrote of her city: “She is content to grow
symmetrically and if grace and strength
keep pace,with her increasing bulk, she is
content to face the future.” It can hold
closely to the past, recollecting its lessons,
valuing its traditions, respecting its mem-
ory, and loving in her cold, steadfast
passion, the living links which connect her
with her honorable history and unite her
past in the great story of the nation.
	(Read at the meeting of the Daughters
of the Revolution, Jan. 16, 1914.
