BOOK NOTICES. The Stairway, by Alica A. Chown is an exceptionally good book and well worth reading. It is published by The Cornhill EDITORIAL... Company, 2 A Park Street, Boston, Mass., and the price is $2. The following is a brief outline: "The Stairway is the record of the people the author meets as she climbs to a view-point which illuminates life for her. She finds everywhere people longing for freedom to express their craving for beauty, for truth, for love; and upon this universally growing recognition that life is more than any of the forms that contain it, she builds her hope that the new spirit of life now awakening will give birth to a new era of peace and good will." It is our belief that one will be paid for the time and money it takes to read and obtain the book. We recommend it to all of our readers. THE LADIES HOME JOURNAL. We break an established editorial rule to commend to our readers another magazine?and that, too, an Eastern publication. The Ladies Home Journal has been publishing recently a series of articles on the dangerous condition of modern society which should be read by every woman and man and girl and boy in this United States of ours. The editorial in the September number by Mrs. Mary Roberts Rinehart on Freedom is worth much money and many readings; there are articles on: Jazz, and now a vital and compelling story by Zane Grey?and we "Mormons" have no occasion to regard him very highly in the past?but his story, "The Call of the Canyon," now running in the Journal, is too valuable as a moral appeal for us to refrain from favorable comment. We heartily recommend it to all our readers. A new edition of the Brief History of the Church, by Edward H. Anderson, has been issued from the Mission headquarters at Independence, Missouri. The seventeen-year administration of President Joseph F. Smith, is added and treated briefly and the beginning of President Heber J. Grant's incumbency, as his successor is outlined. This brings the book up to date and makes of it a comprenhensive, clear and indispensable adjunct to those who study, write or consult the history of this people. The history has passed through several editions and its value to missionaries as well as to the auxiliary organizations cannot be over estimated. Elder Anderson has shown that nice balance in choosing facts which are both pertinent and necessary for cursory reading, as well as for student reference, and he has had a clear vision to present them with a wise understanding of life's values. The book is on sale at the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City, Utah, and is a cheap and convenient reference for everybody.