Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WEEK IN JUNE) THE SABBATH DAY AND SUNDAY I, Introduction. The Sabbath day and Sunday are used interchangeably, and while they are alike, in at least two respects, yet they are different in some other respects. Both have behind them the divine proclamation and they are both days of rest. They differ, however, in that one is the seventh day of the week and the other the first day of the week; also, that Sunday has the wider significance, as it is not only a day of rest, but also a day of gladsome remembrance of the first resurrection that ever took place on this earth; it is the Redeemer's third estate week-birthday. The Sabbath memoralized the finish of our world's creation; Sunday memoralizes the beginning of "immortalization." II, The Observance of a Seventh Day Rest Period A Divine! Habit. It would appear that the observance of the Sabbath day was a divine habit, as was work a divine habit. We are told in substance that the gods labored for six periods in constructing the earth and the beings to dwell upon it, and at the end of each period they saw that their work was good. The seventh period was devoted to rest, or at least a change of activity different from that of the other six periods, and that it was hallowed or devoted to sacredness. When the declaration of God, recorded in Genesis, Chapters 2, 3, is correlated with the declaration of the Savior, in John 5:19, and when we remember that the Savior observed the Sabbath day, we must conclude that the seventh day rest period is so much of a custom in heaven that anyone not habituated in the keeping of the Sabbath would be incapable of enjoying existence in company with our Father in heaven or with our Redeemer. III, A Seventh Day Rest Period Most Highly Economical of Energy and Time. The mining magnate, Jesse Knight, found, through actual GUIDE LESSONS 223 experiments, that it was more profitable to pay men seven days' wages for six days' work than to have them work seven days for the seven days' wages, provided the workmen rested on Sunday. Where the laborers observed religiously the Sabbath day, it was found there were fewer accidents, less sickness, more optimism, less grumbling, more work and less time-stealing. His conclusion that it paid to pay men to pay respect to the Lord's day was a good business principle. Dr. Thomas L. Martin, of the Brigham Young University, is authority for the following: Dr. Marquis, the sociologist for the Ford establishment, talking to the summer school students at Cornell, during the summer of 1919, had the following to say: Henry Ford believed that a twelve-hour day was too long a work day, he used as his evidence the experience of the mining engineers that first went to China. The mandarins objected to Sunday being observed as a rest day, the engineers believed that if there should be a rest day, more efficient work would be done at the mines. They made the claim to the mandarins that the machinery must be oiled and overhauled ct least every tenth day; this was done and it was found that the efficiency of the workers was improved and that there was greater production. It was then tried every ninth day, the result being better than ever. This experiment was repeated every eighth day with still better results. The seventh day was then used as the rest period, and this resulted in even greater efficiency on the part of the workers. The sixth day period was tried and the efficiency was reduced and the workmen demoralized, because the men were in tent on the holidays instead of at their work, so the company returned to the seventh-day period as the most profitable. IV. The Tripple Trueness of Sabbath Observance. By the proper observance of Sunday one habituates oneself in trueness to God; he forms habits of trueness to nature, he proves his trtteness to Christian society. No Sabbath breaker can be a good neighbor in a Christian community. It is not only irreligious but unethical to disregard the sanctity of the Sabbath day. A person who is traditionated in Christian belief is punished not only by his own neglect of Sabbath day observance, but he suffers discomfort in the presence of the violation of the Lord's day by others.. V, Violation of the Sabbath Day Leads to its Loss. There is an irrevocable law always in operation, it may be stated thus: Use and keep, abuse. And lose. There is no evidence of any Sabbath day privileges in the region of the condemned. Who could wish for a fiat proclaiming an end of Sabbath day privileges. A discard of the gospel has caused it to be 224 - taken from the earth, but such a thing will not occur again, it will be taken from individuals, lost to them through their abuse of it. < V. What Was Done on the First Sunday. An angel of power broke the government seal at the tomb and rolled away the stone door with a noise that frightened the Roman guards into deserting their posts of duty. Jesus having finished his mission to the spirit world, entered his mortal body, and made it immortal. He appeared to Mary at daylight, and to others at sunrise, and sent word to his apostles that he would first ascend to his Father, and then meet them at the previously appointed place in Galilee. He walked and conversed with two of his disciples on the way from Jerusalem to Emmaus. In the evening he met with his disciples in a room in Jerusalem. The women went to the sepulchre to finish the burial ceremonies left incomplete at the end of the week (Friday night). They found the sepulchre open and the body gone; they were told by the angels that Jesus had arisen. His friends were all wrought up; they believed that the tomb had been robbed of the body of Jesus. Mary discovered that he had been resurrected, his disciples visited the tomb, but were not convinced of his resurrection. Eleven of them renewed acquaintance with him in his state of immortality Sunday evening. The Jews bribed the frightened guard to testify to the lie that Jesus' friends had forced the tomb, broken the government seal, and had stolen the body of Jesus. They spread the falsehood all over Jerusalem. Matthew 28. Mark 16:2-9. Luke 24. John 20:1-19. The veil of darkness was lifted from the American continent for the first time in three days, the sun shone. III Nephi 10:9. VII. Traditionating Children in Sunday Observance. Fortunate indeed is the race, the community, the family, or the individual with good traditions, for they are akin to race habits. A child who is properly traditionated in Sunday -observance becomes so pleasurably habituated to it that a feeling of discomfort either accompanies or follows any serious departure from the observance. Children may be trained to remember the Lord's day in their Sunday morning secret prayers, giving thanks for the rest-day and expressing a desire to be helped by the Lord to observe it. The Sunday morning family prayer may fittingly reinforce the secret petition for help to succeed in the spiritual activities of the Lord's day. "We thank thee, O Lord, for our Sunday" is an expression worthy of place in our Sabbath-day prayers. GUIDE LESSONS 225 VIUI.. The Breakfastless Sabbath. Healthy children and robust youths will be benefited by dispensing with breakfast on Sunday morning. The custom makes for health, it develops a self-restraint that will contribute to the general power of self-control, and it puts the spiritual part of the soul to the front at the priesthood meeting and in the Sunday school. It lessens the daily grind of meal preparation possibly thirty per cent. When Jesus said to Peter, "Feed my lambs" he was not thinking of the "loaves and fishes," but of the bread of eternal life of which he spoke to the tempter when requested to perform a miracle for the gratification of his appetite. Matt. 4:4. Learning, thinking, and acting are processes of becoming. We learned that the Savior used physical abstinence as a preparation for a spiritual contest. We think of the procedure as applicable to our lives, we apply it and just that far become as he is. Young people are instinctively heroic, and acts of heroism are productive of a joy eclipsing all forms of physical happiness. A family custom of a breakfastless Sabbath trains in heroism and makes it possible for them to feast at the table of high selfrespect, not self-conceit, nor self-indulgence. ~ QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Which of the Lord's birthdays do we celebrate by Sunday observance? 2. Where and how are we to celebrate this birthday? Doctrine and Covenants, 59:9-12. 3. What are we not to do on Sunday? Doctrine and Covenants, 59:13-14. 4. What are the blessings promised for observing Sunday? Section 59:14-20. 5. How is Sunday related to this exclamation: "Oh grave, where is thy victory; oh death, where is thy sting?" 6. Show that the great question of the ages, recorded in Job 14:14, was answered by the first event on the morning of the first Sunday. Matthew 28:7. ' 7, Wherein is there more of the joy element in observing the Christian Sunday than in the observance of the Jewish Sabbath? 8. Why is it unneighborly to work on Sunday? 9. Make a list of things that may be done on Sunday which are pleasing to the Lord and joy-giving to man. 10. In the light of Doctrine and Covenants 59:13 is the habit of having big Sunday dinners theologically consistent? 11. Discuss the simple life diet for Sunday in the light of the following: An animal husbandry survey showed that more 226 work horses die on Sunday flan on any other day of the week where teams were permitted to rest on that day, and that the ? chief cause of death was indigestion although the animals were fed the workday ration. 12. Prove scripturally that among the Savior's perfect set of good habits was the habit of attending meeting on the Sabbath day. Luke 4:16. 13. Have someone read pages 309, 310, Gospel Doctrine; it will take less than four minutes. LESSON II Work and Business (SEconD WEEK IN JUNE) LESSON III Literature (Tutrp WeEK In JUNE) LITERATURE LESSON John Jaques, remembered among the Latter-day Saints for his valubale contributions to their hymnology, was born January 7, 1827, at Market Bosworth, Leicestershire, England. At the time of his baptism, which occurred in the year 1845, he became a member of the Branstone branch, but was identified later with the Stratford-on-Avon branch, Warwickshire conference. He sailed from Liverpool, May 22, 1856, and was subjected to severe snow storms, while coming to the valleys. On the plains he and his wife had a child born to them, he also lost a daughter near Green river., Essentially a literary man, he was trained as a cabinet maker. During his lifetime he worked on the Millennial Star, the Deseret News, and the Daily Telegraph. At the time of his death, which occurred June 1, 1900, the anniversary of Brigham Young's birthday, he was working at the Historian's Office, having been connected there for many years. (For further biographical information consult L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, page ~ 254.) Five hymns from the pen of John Jaques appear in the L. D. S. Hymn book. Of this number "O say, what is truth?' holds first place in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, with whom it has found great favor, not alone because of its poetic quality, but because it is an appropriate hymn for many occa- GUIDE LESSONS 227 sions. It is said to be the favorite hymn of Elder David O. McKay. This hymn begins with a question, an unusual way to begin a hymn, but, in this instance, most effective, as it calls attention to the central idea of the hymn, around which all else is centered. The poet asks the question, which comes ringing to us from the pages of the Holy Bible, "What is truth?" and then proceeds to answer the question, not as a philosopher would answer it, but as a poet answers it. The literary quality of the hymn is produced by bringing into being a group of beautiful comparisons that appeal to the senses and whose connotation is vast and pleasurable. While John Jacques appeals to the senses by comparing truth with the "fairest gem that the riches of worlds can produce," at once suggesting to the mind all the color and brilliancy of the jewels of the world, yet he tells us that truth is to be treasured beyond all the gems of the earth, for it shall be exalted when the "proud monarch's costliest diadem is counted but dross and refuse." ??_ There is a prophecy in the'first stanza that has certainly found its fulfilment during the last decade. Are not the crowns of both the house of Hapsburg and of Hohenzollern dross and refuse at the present time? Before the war were they not the embodiment of pride, the one proud of reigning for nine centuries, the -other proud of military power and prowess? The second stanza accentuates the fact that truth is a prize above all else, a prize to which mortals and even gods may aspire, that it permeates all regions, that whether found in the depths or on the heights, "'Tis an aim for the noblest desire." The third stanza shows how temporary and ephemeral are all material things when compared with the products of the spirit: "The scepter may fall from the despot's grasp, When with winds of stern justice he copes, But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, And its firm-rooted bulwarks oustand the rude blast, And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. The last stanza reminds us that spiritual entities are not bound by either time or space, that even though heaven and earth pass away, yet truth will stand "eternal, unchanged evermore." "Softly beams the sacred dawning," while not in the same class with "O say, what is truth?" as a poetic composition is nevertheless a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints. It stands second among John Jaques' hymns for its literary quality, lofty and poetic as it is both in conception and style. The suggestive quality of this hymn should not go un- 228 noticed, for each line arouses a train of images that must keep the singer in exalted mood. There are eight stanzas in the hymn, each as we approach it, to borrow the language of the author, "seems glowing with celestial cheer." The other three hymns from the pen of John Jaques, found in the L. D. S. Collection, carry their message in clear, concise English, they are examples of good verse rather than poetry. Such hymns are of great value and most serviceable, but we are always gratified when the theme and emotional content raises the author into a realm where the expression is truly poetic. In this day when the Latter-day Saints are emphasizing temple work, the words of the hymn on page 389 cannot fail to make direct appeal. Surely the contribution of two such hymns as "O say, what is truth," and "Softly beams the Sacred dawning" will give lasting fame to their author. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What are the material entities to which John Jaques compares truth? Have the hymn sung during the session. 2. Read the words of "Softly beams the sacred dawning." 3. To what theme is the poem devoted? 4. Select the lines that you regard as especially poetic in the hymn. 5. Are you assisted, through the poetic language, to see and feel more keenly the time that the poet projects? 6. What proof have we that John Jaques could write prose as well as poetry? 7, In the event that the topic of a lesson should be temple work, which one of John Jaques' hymns would be appropriate to sing? 8. Have the hymn read or sung to the class, preferably both, if you have time. LESSON IV Social Service. Fourth Week in June MORAL LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME "And now a commandment I give unto you," said the Lord through the Prophet, "if you will be delivered, you shall set in order your own house for there are many things that are not right in your house." Doctrine and Covenants, 93:43. And again, "Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, GUIDE LESSONS 229 and give more earnest heed unto your sayings or be removed out of their place. What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always, lest the wicked one have power in you and remove you out of your place." Doctrine and Covenants 93:48-49, To set our houses in order morally implies two lines of careful organization. In the first place, the environment must be made good, it must inspire moral ideals, sentiments and habits. To set our houses in order means to remove those forces that are morally contaminating and substitute such conditions as tend toward moral uplift. These influences may be either physical or social. We shall call them the home environment. In the second place, we must give proper direction to the native tendencies of children. We call these tendencies instincts. Thus the Lord's commandment implies that order, system, intelligent direction, should take the place of disorder, confusion, conflict. The house of the Lord is a house of order, and so also should be the sacred homes in which God's choice spirits are reared. In this and the following two lessons we shall study moral leadership in the home from the standpoint of what we shall do with the normal child by way of providing proper surroundings on the one hand and giving proper direction to native tendencies on the other. In harmony with what we have said heretofore, we insist that to direct the natural activities of children is much easier than to remove unnatural tendencies when they have once taken root in the lives of our children. In the present lesson we shall consider the home environment in its moral significance and in the following two lessons we shall treat the instructive tendencies with the view of directing them into moral channels. Social Environment of the Home "Better is a dry morsel and quietness therewith, Than a houseful of feasting with strife."?-Proverbs 17:1. It is commonly recognized that the great majority of morally delinquent children and the older criminals come from homes where there is strife, conflict and confusion. And we can expect nothing else of a boy who, during the tender and sensitive years of his life, hears constantly profanity, vulgarity; observes dishonesty, cruelty, sensuality; lives in an atmosphere of filth and tobacco smoke. If the tender thoughts and feelings are to develop in the right direction, and if right habits are to be formed the stimulus and inspiration of the home must conform to the higher standards. A little child is after all very much 230 like a young colt. He learns to respond to the things which he sees and hears. If he hears loud and profane language he becomes wild and uncontrollable. If the language of the home is kind and the voices gentle, he is likely to take on that attitude. If the parents are honest, the child is quite sure to be honest. If parents control their own impulses, the child soon learns to control his. We must not assume that a child has the motives, the intelligence, the self-control of an adult. If that were the case, there would be no need for moral education. The child needs the constant direction of the parent, because, as a child he does not recognize fully the meaning of moral principles. He needs the authoritative control of the parent because he does not yet possess the inner power of reason and organized habits. "The Perfect child," says Cope, "is the one unborn; shortly after his birth he begins to take after his father. The perfect character does not exist in a child. It is as unreasonable to expect it as it would be to look for the perfect tree in the sapling. Character comes by development; it is not born full-blown. Childhood implies promise, development. Therefore parents must not be surprised at evidences that their children are pretty much like their neighbor's children. Outside of the old-time SundaySchool-library book the child who never lied, lost his temper, sulked, or made a disturbance never existed and never will, except in a psychopathic ward in some hospital. Could anything be sadder than the picture of the anzmic, pulseless automaton who is always good?"* Physical Environment of the Home By physical environment we mean all those things that influence the lives of children other than the direct influence of human beings, and such influences are numerous. The animals in the barn-yard, the flowers of the garden, the artistic arrangement of the furniture, the pictures on the wall, and the music in the home, all these influence profoundly the moral life of the home. The little child should be taught to see God's work in the beauties of nature, to enjoy to live with nature, to care for and develop plants and animals. ' He should be taught to treat kindly all the creatures of nature that are capable of feeling pain and pleasure as he does himself. Sometimes a beautiful picture may develop a love for nature which first hand contact may not do. Well chosen pictures also inspire in the minds of children other moral sentiments which can be created in no other way. The best of art can be obtained in *The Religious Education in the Family, Cope, page 219. GUIDE LESSONS 231 prints at slight cost. A visit to the class rooms of some of the grades in the school may be profitable in ascertaining the most desirable pictures and at the same time ascertaining the prices. An attractive home environment has an indirect moral value in that it tends to keep the younger members of the family at home. In these times when there are so many things that attract young people away from the home, it is very essential that the attraction of the home shal! Hold its own in competition with outside amusements. Public places of amusement have their place in the community but they must not be permitted to absorb all the attention of young people. The home must always be the most interesting place in the world. It must become as near a paradise as we can make it. The loving influence of father and mother, the brother and sister, inspiring strains of music, the interesting life and behavior of domestic animals, all tend to 'make a moral and happy home., Cleanliness is Next to Godliness Too often the beauty, attractiveness and moral atmosphere of the home is weakened by a few careless habits of its members. In and of themselves these habits are not morally bad, but indirectly their influence is detrimental to the wholesome, cheerful spirit that otherwise could be maintained. How often members of the family enter the house and throw their wraps here and there. How often papers, books, music and toys are used and left misplaced. How often the personal belongings of even the adult members of the family are left in disorder. Such common habits as these only bring confusion and irritation and generally end in added burdens to the mother. The personal cleanliness and neatness of an individual has a direct effect on his daily habits of thought and action. Careless language, crude behavior, and vulgarity in general frequently grow out of and accompany unclean bodies and slovenly dress. For example, a little boy four years of age, after having received his bath, clean underwear and his best suit, came to his mama and said, "My, but I am clean, Mama. I can be a good boy now." The Spirit of God will not dwell in unclean or unholy places. If the home is to be the most attractive place in the world it must be clean in every sense of the word. Mother can enjoy her house only when everything is in order, when every room in the house smells fresh, when the body of every member of the family is clean. The father takes pride in his home only when the door-yard and the barn-yard measure up to his standard of order and sanitation. REFERENCES Deuteronomy, Chapter 6. Cope: Religious Education in the Family, ch, 19. Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 93:43-45. QUESTIONS 1. How do you interpret the Lord's statement: "If you will be delivered, you shall set in order your house?" 2. Discuss also the statement:. "The house of the Lord is the house of order." 3. How do you explain the fact that the majority of morally delinquent children and criminals come from homes of low moral character? 4, How does the language of the home influence the conduct of the children? 5. What, in the physical environment of the home, do you consider of moral significance? 6. What is the moral significance of pictures in the home? 8. Show in what way a home that is generally attractive has a strong influence over the lives of young people. 9. Why is it important that a large proportion of young people's amusements should be provided for in the home? 10. Explain the moral value of family prayers. 11. Show the moral value of cleanliness. TEACHER'S TOPIC May MOTHER'S DAY. PRIVILEGES OF MOTHERHOOD "Men may build nations, And armies control, But what is all that To the birth of a soul?" "We admire the artist who presents the mimic man upon the canvas; we applaud the sculptor who carves out that same image in enduring marble, but oh, how insignificant are these achievements, though the highest and fairest in all the domain of art, in comparison with the great vocation of human mothers? They work not upon canvas that will fade, nor marble that will crumble into dust, but upon mind and spirit, that will live forever, and bear through eternity, for good or ill, the impress of a mother's plastic hand."?Daniel Webster. GUIDE LESSONS ? TEACHER'S TOPIC For June PROPER CHAPERONAGE Have faith in your children but fear the social conditions of the day. Cooperation of parents in ocmmunities in regard to chaperonage. Responsibility of parents for the salvation of children. The Three Glories J lia Farr Through the darkened woodland, one night I strolled alone, Faintly through the tree-tops, the twinkling star-light shone. The air was filled with fragrance, from moss, and tree, and flower, My soul was thrilled and silenced by the magic of the hour! Many wondrous thoughts seemed to flood with joy my being, Angels seemed to hover round, my earthly bondage freeing. When night was far advanced, a silver light appeared, And as it grew in brilliance, the darkness disappeared. Wondering, then, I gazed at the beauty of the scene? Nature seemed more eloquent, the leaves and ferns a-sheen. The whole night through, I contemplated the glory of the moon. The hours passed me quickly by, it seemed to me too soon, The moon-light waned, the shadows fled. But lo! The golden ray Upon the eastern hills, proclaimed the dawning of a day! The heavens were lit with prism rays as the glorious sun appeared! The shadows fled, the zephyrs stirred, the songs of birds were heard!; Majestically the sun arose, in splendor unsurpassed, I felt its warmth, I felt its power, I felt soul strength at last! And, as with awe I watched it rise in power and majesty, I thought of heaven's reward to Man-?one of glories three, The glory of the Stars, or of the Moon, or of the Sun! I prayed that mine would be the Third, when my early race was run! SAZY? A Big Treat for Conference Time "Sazy" is a Social Service Drama, dealing with the real problems of THE SIMM'S FAMILY?and solving those problems by practical methods. ? The Salt Lake Theatre APRIL 5th, Next You will do Relief Society work more thoughtfully? You will bestow charities more cautiously? You will love humanity more generously? When you have seen this stirring Drama with its big appeal. The Simms Family is among you UUSHAnauecenesdCueneantrsnnecescs Ov4boeeenssed oedeeseuuseaee in cantCteT gaat enisaanaenestestrt ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 AT McINTYRE'S IOANANVEODONOUNOONARO ANA EONAT UU To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, . To the SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Eanpongqauntanptacdsiasauncssunaun S?sy BY TEST" Ice Cream: 'Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE. WAS. 3223. -. P. O. BOX 17/3. ? SALT LAKE City -APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?receipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and wunaranea information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes The Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper An tel MABE AI Cuts" t When Buying Mention sti ?