THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 201 were gratuitously accommodated, and in return left to their hosts the skins of the Passover lambs and the vessels which they had used in their sacred services. This service was observed, then, for hundreds of years, few, if any of those who partook of it realizing that every part and portion of it was directly symbolic of the Master's great atoning sacrifice.

Another important feature of the Passover supper was the unleavened bread which must form a principal portion of the feast. So particular did this matter become in later centuries that the head of the household made a ceremony of searching the house to the remotest corner for any bit of leaven that might have been left, or for any bit of bread that contained leaven. Leaven, it must be remembered, is yeast, and the yeast plant of the orientals was first scraped from the skin of the grapes, and the culture made in something the same manner that it is today; but the Jewish women kept a little piece of the dough from baking day to baking day and raised the bread with this piece of leavened dough put into the middle of the new batch of flour, kneading it in; this was rather a common custom among the old New England families. Because of this, the bread was always a little bit sour; the same custom is followed in Northern Europe, and accounts for the little acid flavor in much of the black bread there found.

The yeast plant is the lowest form of life and is, therefore, significant in that it was forbidden to be used in this symbolic feast which typifies the crucifixion of the Savior. The unleavened cakes, which were the only bread used during the feast, might be made of either wheat, barley, oats or rye, but they must be prepared and baked quickly before fermentation had begun. They were to be mixed with water and not with fruit liquor.

The ceremony in the temple at the Paschal season was interesting. In the lower courts they had many shambles where cattle and doves were kept. It was against the very profitable traffic in all such offerings carried on by the priests in the temple courts that the Lord Jesus cried out, only a few days before his death, when he overthrew the table and the money changers, much to the astonishment and indignation of the priests who had always thus made a generous if irregular fortune. (Matt. 21:12, 13; John 2:13-18.)

Before the evening incense was burned or the lamps were trimmed, the general Paschal sacrifice had to be offered in the temple courts, for the priests themselves had to offer this sacrifice as well as all the Jewish households. The householders who took the lambs to the Temple to be slain were divided into companies of thirty and as many as the great courts could hold at a time 202 crowded into the lower courts, and immediately the massive gates were closed behind them. The priests sounded a three-fold blast on their silver trumpets just as the Passover lambs were slain. In the two upper courts stood the priests in two rows, one row holding each a golden bowl and the other row a silver bowl. Into these golden bowls the blood of the Paschal lambs was quickly poured, then handed to the next priest with the silver bowl; and so the bowls with the blood were passed up to the priests at the altar who jerked the contents of each cup in one jet at the base of the altar. All this time a solemn hymn of praise was sung, the Levites leading and the people responding in much the same way as the ritual services are now rendered in the Catholic and Episcopalian churches. Every first line of the Psalm was repeated by the people, while to each of the others they responded by a "Hallelujah," or "Praise ye the Lord."

Following this service in the temple, the head of each household retired with his lamb to his own home to prepare the feast for his family, and then other companies were admitted into the temple enclosure, as long as the evening hours would permit.

During the eating of the Passover feast another interesting ceremony occurred. It will be remembered that the Jews, indeed no ancient people, had printed books nor had they access to great masses of records and books such as we have today. The only way to carry on the religious ceremonies from generation to generation, to teach history and to impress principles upon the minds of growing youth was through oral tradition. Moses arranged, therefore, that after the first portion of the feast had been partaken of, the oldest or the youngest son shall arise and ask these questions: "Why is this night distinguished from all other nights? For on all other nights we eat leavened or unleavened bread, but on this night only unleavened bread? On all other nights we eat any kind of herbs, but on this night only bitter herbs? On all other nights we eat meat roasted, stewed, or boiled, but on this night only roasted? On all other nights we dip (the herbs) only once, but on this night twice?" "Then the father instructs his child according to the capacity of his knowledge, beginning with our disgrace and ending with our glory, and expounding to him from 'A Syrian, ready to perish, was my father,' till he has explained all through, to the end of the whole section" (Deut. 26:5-11). In other words, the head of the house was to relate the whole national history, commencing with Terah, Abraham's father, and telling of his idolatry, and continuing, in due order, the story of Israel up to their deliverance from Egypt and the giving of the Law; and the more fully he explained it all, the better.

THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. The Passover feast began usually about nine o'clock in the evening and continued till midnight or after.

Jewish writers state that, after the family or families having performed the required purifications, John 11:55, and being assembled at the table, the master of the feast took a cup of wine mixed with water and blessed God for the fruit of the vine, of which all then drank. After a washing of hands the passover was brought in, with unleavened cakes, bitter herbs, and a vinegar or fruit sauce, into which morsels of the food were to be dipped, Matt. 26:23; John 13:26. The father then blessed God for the fruits of the earth, and made the prescribed explanations, Exod. 12:26, 27. After a second cup and washing of hands, an unleavened cake was broken and distributed, and a blessing was pronounced upon the Giver of bread. When all had eaten of the passover a third cup, of thanksgiving for deliverance from Egypt and the gift of the law, was blessed and partaken of, Matt. 26:27; 1 Cor. 10:16; it was called "the cup of blessing." The repast was usually closed by a fourth cup and psalms of praise; Psalms 115-118 were sung here and Psalms 113 and 114 earlier in the feast. The whole week of the feast was one of rejoicing. (Deut. 27:17. Dictionary of the Holy Bible.) The fact should be noted that the thin, sour wine which was used in this and other feasts was at certain seasons of the year the only safe liquid to drink. Water was kept in cisterns there, and sometimes under the tropic sun, it became putrid and unfit for drinking purposes. Hence it was often mixed with the weak, acid native wines. Bear in mind the fact that although the bitter herbs typify their sorrow in Egypt, and the unleavened bread the lack of leaven in the Jewish households, as they were leaving for their flight from Pharaoh; while the blood of the sacrificial lamb, sprinkled upon the lintels and door-posts of the Jewish households, signified the covenanted homes where the first born was to be spared, all of these symbols were to receive a new meaning during the Last Supper of our Lord in Jerusalem. When our Lord partook of this Passover, he tried to convince his disciples of the sublime significance of the whole symbolic service. He was the Paschal Lamb, the first male of his Father's flock, without spot or blemish, and he was to die upon the cross. His blood was the sacrificial blood which should appear over the threshold of every householder that acknowledged him and his divine mission. As he took the bread and passed it he said, "Take, eat; this is my body." And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave to them, saying, "Drink ye all of it; for this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins" (Matt. 26:26-28). 204 . But, alas, the disciples could not see the significance which he endeavored to give to this solemn Last Supper. His betrayal followed immediately upon that supper, and he was hung upon the cross for the period prophesied of. Taken down on the Sabbath day and resurrected on the first day of the week, which we now observe as the Sabbath day, his disciples for generations ate the Lord's Supper in memory of him. Sometimes they were obliged to hold their services in the catacombs at Rome and in the caves and dens of the earth; and at last apostasy and corruption caused the last principle of light to fade away, and "the bride went into the wilderness," and the great apostasy spoken of by John took place. The radical modification made by the Catholic church, which still administers the sacrament, and which puts forth the superstitious theory that through a miracle the unleavened wafer is changed into the very flesh of the Savior and the wine becomes his very blood — which is eaten and drunk therefore by the priests and the few communicants — appals the mind of the outsider and fulfils the prophecy of John concerning the general apostasy and the changing of the ordinances. This doctrine of the Catholic church is called transubstantiation. When the Lord again revealed himself to his children in modern times, he instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith that leavened bread, strangely symbolic of His own resurrected body with life therein, might be used in the modern sacrament; and that water was also permitted in place of wine. Today we celebrate, every Sabbath day, the Lord's Supper in simplicity and in remembrance of his body and spilt blood. The significance attaching to the Paschal season belongs, of necessity, to this subject and we desire here to present some of these points to our readers. THE PASCHAL WEEK AND THE SIXTH DAY OF APRIL, 1830 AND 1917, AND THE THIRD DAY OF APRIL, 1836. Great and momentous events have occurred on this earth during the few days which are celebrated by the Jews as their Paschal week. The death and resurrection of our Savior occurred during this period, as is amply indicated in the records preserved in the New Testament. He was the great sacrificial Lamb, and at the very hour when he stood before Pontius Pilate, in the gateway of the tower of Antonio overlooking the temple courts, the priests were offering up the sacrificial lamb, on the second day of the Paschal week. The modern Christians have, for centuries, celebrated this Passover week, although there has been considerable dispute concerning the fixing of the date. This period is called the Easter season, and Easter Sunday moves up and down our own calendar of days between about March 21 and April 21, exactly as does the Passover day. The Christians follow the Jewish calendar in fixing their Easter time. When was the Savior born? What has been and is the exact day of the Passover? The Jewish calendar is and has been so uncertain that the most abstruse Jewish scholar is unable to fix definitely on the exact time of this Paschal service. The Jewish year is governed by the moon; while if the Paschal night should occur on Sunday they set it back. The Jews still maintain the lunar year calendar in their religious festivals. Because of this fact there is published, from time to time, various descriptions of the calendar. We find this in the Jewish Encyclopedia: Copyright, Underwood & Underwood, New York A PORTION OF THE OLD WALL AROUND JERUSALEM. 206 . "The conviction reached by Hippolytus is that Jesus's life from conception, or annunciation, was precisely thirty-three years and that both events occurred March 25th." * * * "The uncertainty of all the data discredits the computation. There is no historical evidence that our Lord's birthday was celebrated during the apostolic or early post-apostolic times. The uncertainty that existed at the beginning of the third century in the minds of Hippolytus and others — Hippolytus earlier favored Jan. 2, Clement of Alexandria (Strom., i.

After rising from prayer, the following vision was opened to both of us. "Vision manifested to Joseph the Seer and Oliver Cowdery: (Doc. & Cov. Sec. 110.) * * * " After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death stood before us, and said — " Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come. " To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with the curse. " Therefore the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors" (History of the Church Vol. II, pages 435-6). 210 .

Intimately associated with the message of Elijah is the labor going on in the temples built to the name of Jehovah in this generation. The Latter-day Saints are the only people on earth to whom such a mission could be committed, and they are the only people on earth who are carrying on the message and mission given by the Prophet Elijah to the Prophet Joseph Smith.

Are the mothers in Israel spiritually cognizant of the signs of the times and of the events which have and are transpiring preparatory to the winding up scene? Let us give thanks during the Paschal season this year, and recall the marvelous events which have occurred and which will hereafter occur during this symbolic season of the year. The 6th day of April is and should be a sacred day to the Mothers of Israel.