PLANTING TREES THIS SPRING. 223 and Evergreens; or strange trees as Redwoods of California, Cedars of Lebanon, Mahogany and Teakwood; or trees famed in literature, Charter Oak, Washington Elm, King Arthur's Oak.

Readings.— "A Psalm of Friendly Trees," Henry Van Dyke.
"The Forest Primeval" (Evangeline), Longfellow.
"The Trees and the Master," Sidney Lanier.
A Forest Hymn. — "Planting of the Apple Tree," Bryant.
"Pictures of Memory," Alice Carey.

Typical Trees.
For genealogists — The Date;
For gouty people — Acorn;
For schoolboys — Birch;
For conjurers — Palm;
For farmers — Plantain;
For winter wear — Firs;
For hoarders (her) — Ash;
For lovers (sigh press) — Cypress;
For dandies — Spruce;
For your wife — Willow;
For young ladies — Mango.

The Garden in April.
Plants growing in greenhouse, cold frame, or windows will require increased ventilation and water this month as they will be growing rapidly. Shift house plants into larger pots if necessary. Plant seeds of the hardy vegetables, as beets, cauliflower, lettuce, spinach, peas, parsnips, chard, radishes, turnips, and onions. Thin out the cabbage, tomato, eggplant, etc., in the hot bed. If plants are crowded they will grow spindling and weak. Remove all covering from the asparagus bed and hoe or dig lightly. The same applies to rhubarb and strawberries but be reasonably sure that danger from frost is all over.

The planting of all hardy shrubs, bushes, climbers, and herbaceous perennials may now be done in the flower garden. Shrubs which should find a place in every garden are hawthorn (red and white), lilac, laburnum, spireas, bridal wreath, syringas, flowering almond, snowballs, honeysuckle, hydrangeas, altheas (rose of Sharon); climbers include, ampelopsis (Virginia creepers and Boston ivy), English ivy, honeysuckle, trumpet vine, wisteria, clematis, and the various climbing and rambler roses.

Chrysanthemum roots may be divided and cuttings taken; these if properly cared for will produce splendid blooming plants by fall. Some perennials which are not so well known are: foxglove, perennial candytuft, lupin, phlox, scarlet lichen, forget-me-not, cowslip, woodruff valerian, tritoma (red hot poker), pyrethrum, and others. All of these are of easy culture and perfectly hardy and once established will quickly spread, last for years and become as popular as golden glow, coreopsis, etc. All may be grown from seed but quicker success is assured by root division.

Plant the seeds of all hardy annuals this month in the open ground. The soil should be enriched by fertilizer, thoroughly dug and raked level and smooth. Seed is usually sown in rows from six to twenty-four inches apart. Very fine seed such as petunias and poppies should be mixed with a little fine sand before sowing. After seed is sown, sift over it a little fine soil sufficient to cover the seeds lighter or heavier according to the size of the seeds and then smooth over with a board or back of the spade. Label the rows and carefully pull weeds. After the plants come up they should be thinned out leaving the stronger plants. Provide support if necessary.

Gladioli may be planted now. With a sharp pointed stick make a hole about six inches deep and plant bulb (right side up) at the bottom, fill with earth. Plant six or eight bulbs in a group or in rows for a background. Gladioli may be planted every two weeks until the middle of July if a succession of flowers are desired.

Separate dahlia bulbs and be sure to leave a portion of the stem with each clump or the bulbs will not produce shoots and flowers. Dahlias need plenty of room and should be cared for like the potato. Cuttings from geraniums, marguerites, fibrous begonias, etc., should be taken and placed in the sand box or a corner of the cold frame where they can make roots and be ready for the window boxes or ornamental beds when needed about June.

For a small garden where there are no trees or bushes plant castor oil bean and tall sunflowers. These will grow tall and provide some quick shade and quite a tropical effect, especially if you grow datura, coleus, cannas, Joseph's coat, and other plants with highly colored ornamental leaves.

All the numbers of the Magazine for are sold. Extra numbers are wanted at the office Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City.

Construction AND RECONSTRUCTING IN THE HOME
Janette A. Hyde and Lucile Young McAllister.
The Lingerie Waist.
For wearing with a suit there is nothing to take the place of a dainty waist. There are many beautiful, fine materials in lawns, voiles, silks, and crepes but most beautiful and most popular among these is the georgette crepe. So far practicality's sake we will make the georgette crepe waist the subject of this lesson.

Just a word, in passing, on the material itself. Many people condemn the use of georgette crepe because it is extremely sheer and transparent and often garments made from it are immodest. This stand is not well taken for a well-made garment from this material could not be otherwise than beautiful but the underclothing worn beneath it is at fault. The very qualities of sheerness, transparency, and softness are the secrets of its beauty.

Let me suggest then that in planning a crepe waist you also plan an underwaist of India silk, silk de chene or wash satin and be sure it sufficiently covers the body. For women wearing the L.D.S. garments I would suggest long sleeves and high neck so that none of the knitted material is visible. I have found it very practical to use old waists of crepe de chene or wash satin in this connection.

White waists, a little yellow from laundering can be tinted. In the new waists of this spring there are some decidedly new points to be seen. Some of them are: the back fastening, the round neck, the peplins and panels below the waist and the embroidery of wool in oriental colors.

How to proceed with the waist.

After choosing the style and color very carefully, lay your pattern on the material preparatory to cutting, but be mindful of the following suggestions, which seem unimportant but which will have everything to do with the success of your waist: Do not try to cut on a table where there are other articles. Clear your table of everything save your material, which must be perfectly straight to begin with. You cannot cut georgette crepe with dull scissors, for every time you attempt to cut with dull ones you will pull the crepe out of place and lose the shape of your waist. The suggestions on the use of the pattern given in the last number should be carefully considered. If you desire a back fastening, place the center front of the pattern on the fold of the material, and the allowance for lapping and fastening should be made in the center of the back. Do not allow any fullness in the center of the front, but leave that space plain if you desire to embroider the front. All crepe waists are better with fullness, but make the allowance from the shoulder, as shown before. Allow wide seams. This is very important with the crepe and all other materials which lack body, for the following reasons: the waist must be made large — it will neither wear nor look well if it is too tight; then you must have plenty of material to make a good seam. It is impossible to make a smooth seam and work near the edge of the crepe. The difficulty some people experience in making these waists can be attributed to too small an allowance for seams. You will not find georgette crepe difficult to handle if you work back from the edge. Baste the waist together carefully and use silk of the same shade for basting on the seams which are to be hemstitched. I advise this because after the hemstitching is done it is sometimes impossible to remove the basting, and where silk of the same shade is used it is not necessary to remove it. Baste the shoulder seam by placing the back over the front after first gathering the front, and baste from the top. See Fig. 1. After fitting the waist, French-seam the under-arm seam and the sleeve. The sleeve should only be sewed as far as the elbow, if there is hemstitching to be done on the cuff. The seam can be sewed on down after the hemstitching is done. The parts of the waist which are generally hemstitched are as follows: the shoulder seam, the armeye seam, the joining of the collar to the waist, bottoms of the sleeves and edges of collars. In the case of the last two, the edge is cut away so as to leave a picot edge. See Fig. 2. Seams should be very firmly basted. This will enable the hemstitcher to do better work for you. Where you desire the picot edge, mark the exact place where you wish the edge to be with a basting thread. This will serve as a guide in the hemstitching. See Fig. 3. For the benefit of women who live in small towns and places where there are no hemstitching machines, I would advise you to mail it to the Hemstitching Department of any of the following stores: Z. C. M. I.,