The two subjects of chief general interest in public discussion during February were industrial unrest and the league of nations. The industrial situation was growing more complex and unsatisfactory, not only in the defeated powers of the Teutonic alliance, but in both Great Britain and the United States; in the former nation, labor disputes became so critical that the British premier announced to parliament that the very existence of the British empire was endangered; and in the United States the spreading of strikes and the announced inability of employers to meet the demands for high wages presented an increasingly threatening condition of affairs.

As to the league of nations, upon his return from France President Wilson stated that the league proposed would not prevent war but would tend to minimize the probability of war; the disputations in the United States over details has assumed a form of abusive criticism of leading men who are discussing the plan to an extent that is seemingly forgetful of the fact that converts are not made by calling hard names.

Famine continued to spread in western Asia and eastern Europe during February. A "Victory Loan" of five billion dollars is to be asked from the American people in April. A SIX-BILLION annual tax bill was passed by the United States Congress in February. President Wilson returned from France on February 24, and started back to Paris on March 5.

Typhus Fever is the most recent disease that is spreading death among the people of eastern Europe. Kurt Eisner, Bavarian premier, and two of his ministers were assassinated in Munich, Bavaria, in February. 236 .

The armistice with Germany was again extended in February, pending peace negotiations. Army discipline amounting to gross cruelty has been uncovered by a congressional investigation during February. Severe blizzards tied up traffic between the Missouri river and the Rocky Mountains in the middle and latter parts of February.

Premier Clemenceau of France was shot in February, by a French anarchist named Emilie Cottin, but fortunately the wound was not fatal. The influenza epidemic broke out anew in Spain in February; this is the country from which the disease spread over the earth in 1918. Railway operation by the United States government is likely to continue through 1921, by announcement from Washington on February 28.

Women are to be admitted to membership on some of the committees at the Paris peace conference, for the purpose of considering subjects dealing with women and children. Frau Ernestine Lutz, of Dresden, Germany, says that women can give a nation better government than the soldiers' and workmen's councils are striving for, and she isn't far wrong.

The woman suffrage amendment to the national Constitution was defeated in the United States Senate in February, by a vote of 55 ayes to 29 noes — one less than the necessary two-thirds vote. British Day was observed in Utah on Feb. 16, when the work of Great Britain as a great nation, for the period culminating at the end of 1918, was called to the attention of hundreds of congregations.

John M. Browning, of Ogden, Utah, who received one million dollars from the United States government for his gun inventions, is required to pay $700,000 of it back to the government as taxes. "No beer, no work," is the slogan of about 250,000 union workmen who have decided to go on strike in New York on ON THE WATCH TOWER.

July 1. Much beer and little work has been the prevailing condition heretofore.

The cost of the war is to be paid by Germany, according to the declaration of the Entente Allies; but how to arrive at the figures of the cost is now the puzzle. Frederick Ebert, whom the Kaiser Wilhelm II left in charge of the German government upon abdication, has been elected president of the German republic.

Utah's legislature was not able to avoid all "freak legislation," as the people will have the opportunity of ascertaining when the enforcement of some new laws is applied. Health conditions for American troops at Brest, France, were a subject of much discussion in Congress in February, the conclusion reached being that they were both bad and good, as the investigators looked at things.

Senator Lodge, Republican leader in the United States Senate, stated in a speech on February 28 that the present plan outlined for a league of nations needed revision to safeguard the rights of America from European domination. Cardinal Gibbons, of the Church of Rome, introduced and had passed in a big mass meeting in New York on February 22, a resolution insisting that the United States demand independent government for Ireland. This has the appearance of the first gun fired by the Romish church in a war for the dismemberment of Protestant Great Britain.

The League of Nations as at present outlined is claimed by many of its supporters to be an assurance of world-peace, if adopted. For centuries past, men have been seeking a substitute for the true Church of Christ as the dominating factor in establishing universal peace; and the question now agitating the minds of many people is whether or not such substitute has been found at last.

Secretary Tumulty, for the President, made public announcement on February 27 that a report asserting that President Wilson had said that the matter of Irish national independence was outside the purview of the Paris peace conference was a falsehood, to which several members of the Senate committee who were present at the White House dinner responded that the President did make the statement referred to.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto — Charity Never Faileth

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor
Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary
Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary
Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon
Dr. Romania B. Penrose
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde
Mrs. Emily S. Richards
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley
Miss Sarah Eddington
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune
Miss Lillian Cameron
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie
Miss Edna May Davis

Mrs. 
Business Manager - - - - Susa Young Gates
Assistant Manager...... Janette A. Hyde
Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR BOYS WHO SMOKE?

One of the startling and unhappy results of life in army camps is the acquirement of the smoking habit by a limited proportion of our own boys. We may try to account for this deplorable condition by referring to the weak character of the youths who thus offend; or perhaps, to the breaking of the Word of Wisdom by their parents, or to the lack of proper training and environment in their youth.

It may well be that the young man's unfortunate habit was framed in the camps or fields where he had tobacco and cigarettes pushed on him by the cruel kindness of sentimental women, and even through Red Cross and Y. M. C. A. agencies to which our own people contributed liberally, little realizing the harm which would result to their own sons from the misplaced sympathy of worldly-minded people. Any or all of these causes, or none of them, may have started the youth on the wrong path, but we mothers have the situation to face, and what can we do about it? First, let us consider the problem fairly and squarely, instead of pushing it out of mind with evasive excuses for ourselves and for the young man. He has acquired a spiritual disease with a vicious physical appetite and needs curative help. If it were a bodily disease only, we would dose him up with home remedies or hurry to a doctor. Yet far more dangerous to his life here and hereafter is this deadly habit, because it enslaves the will. Therefore, our first duty is to face the situation and try to remedy it.

If we have broken the Word of Wisdom, if only occasionally, let us cease at once to offer this stumbling-block to our son's reform. If the young man's environment has been at fault, then let us study how to remedy the defect. And if it is a weakness in his own character, then let us add strength and faith from our own prayer-sought fountain of hope and help. Scolding, or fault-finding, is about the most deadly hindrance to the work of reformation known to mortals. Yet at the same time, there must be a calm, firm line of conduct and thought, which permits us to show love and tolerance for the offender, but which allows no sort of tolerance for the offense itself.

If the mother, in her eagerness to show her love and sympathy for her boy, allows him perfect and unbridled license to smoke all about the place while she excuses it to her younger children or the neighbors, she is but fastening the chains of bondage more firmly about the soul of her erring son. If the youth cannot cease his smoking habit, he ought at least to have sufficient respect for his parents to refrain from smoking in their presence.

Don't be deceived by the specious argument that it is dishonest to hide one's wrongdoing. If you must do wrong, I beseech you not to do your evil before the innocent eyes of my growing and undeveloped children. Example is the devil's best weapon. There is no virtue in open sin. Smoking dulls the intellect and often produces heart disease or cancer. This is, however, not the worst result of this deadly habit; the moral sense is deadened, and the light of the spirit quenched. It is doubtful if a tobacco-user can obtain or retain that fixed and full testimony and communion with the Spirit of God necessary to keep a man in full fellowship in the Church.

What, therefore, may the mothers of such sons do to help? Two things may turn the tobacco user from his deadly habit. One is the conviction, by the victim, that the habit is a menace to life or health. The other, and by far the stronger incentive to reform, is the spiritual conversion of the victim to the divine message of the Word of Wisdom. In other words, the only one who can reform a tobacco user is himself. You may help a little, through love, and especially through prayer; but, after all, it is the grace of God which helps men and women to reform, and never in the history of the world has there existed a greater need for the preaching of the gospel than on this year of our Lord 1919! The gospel of Jesus Christ is the only key to health, happiness, and progress, here or hereafter.