RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
president, Sister Caroline Pace.
	Whereas, We feel that we have lost one
of our most worthy members and devoted
workers.
	Therefore, Be it resolved by the members
of the Spanish Fork Second ward Relief
Society that we mourn her untimely death
but feel to say that our loss is the Father’s
gain and hence from this we gain some
comfort.
	Resolved, That we extend to the family
of the deceased our sincere sympathy.
	Resolved, Further that a copy of these
resolutions together with the above tribute
be spread upon the records of the society
and that a copy be printed in The Spanish
Fork Press, also WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Sweet friend of the needy, kind helper of youth,
Firm guardian of merit, bright lover of truth,
Thy sleep shall be peaceful, unbroken thy rest,
Thy spirit, disburdened, shall sleep on God’s
	breast.

Oh, well wo remember, sweet spirit, the light,
God lent us awhile ere it sank in the night—
The night we call death, yet in vain we see—
The day spring of glory envelopeth thee.

Sweet, sweet be thy slumber, unbroken thy rest,
Sleep sweet as a babe on the Savior’s kind breast,
God grant we may meet thee on Heaven’s bright
	shore,
To part with thee, dear one, in grief, nevermore.


[Column 1]
KAIZER WILLIAM’S STABLES.
	Opposite the Imperial Palace in Berlin,
the large five story building is that of the
Emperor’s stables.
	Up an inclined walk, we reach the second
story, where are housed the royal carriage
horses, seventy-eight in number. They are
large and coal black, each one wearing a
blanket, in the corner of which is embroid-
ered the Kaizer’s crest and a crown.
	In the third story are the saddle horses
used for riding and the chase. These are
not so large, and are of a lighter color. A
few at the farther end seem to have special
privileges, being in box stalls. One at
least is old, for he put out his tongue in a
caressing manner to any one who would
rub his nose, so we discovered he had no
teeth.
	On the next floor are the carriages, (a
great many.) The silver and blue decora-
tions denote the royal family, the red ones
the court. In another room are the court
and coronation coaches, of rare design and
lavishly emblazoned with gold. On the
next floor are the kitchen wagons, as they
are called. These are used by the hunting

[Column 2]
parties for conveying provisions. One is
very large and is capable of carrying enough
food to feed sixty persons for a week. One
hunting wagon has a complete boat in its
bed, the seats of the wagon being also the
seat of the boat. Upon being lifted out of
the wagon, the boat is ready for the water.
One very large kitchen wagon was the gift
of King Edward of England, but the guide
told us it had never been used. In this de-
partment are about a dozen handsome
sleighs, fine lap robes are thrown over these,
thus indicating that they are ready to be
taken out at a moment’s notice.
	The Kinderwagen, used by the Emper-
or’s children, is shown here, and the garden
wagon, used by Queen Louise, the uphol-
stery of which is tattered and faded. Be-
aides these are others belonging to royal
personages, and some invalid or Bath
chairs. In one corner is the horse on which
Frederick the Great was wont to ride, with
its embroidered saddle trappings. It seems
incredible that its form could be preserved
so long, being over two hundred and fifty
years, though now the hair is falling off its
back. In the opposite corner is shown
likewise the horse on which William I. rode
during the Franco-Prussian war.
	It is evident that horses have been im-
proved since those days, both in color and
in size, Much attention is paid to pedi-
grees. Each one of the present Emperor’s
horses has its name and pedigree on a sign
at the head of its stall. It seems odd to us
to see the hostlers with black broadcloth
trousers, and scarlet colored velvet jackets,
working among the horses.
	In another department the harness is
kept. One set is so heavy that it is said the
horses have to carry twenty pounds of lead
on their heads fora week to accustom them
to its weight. The coronation harness is
about half gold, to match the coach. The
silver and blue harness is used with the
royal carriages. There are four sets of sad-
dle harness, never used, which were pre-
sented to the Emperor by the Sultan of
Moscow. Their design is elegant, the ori-
ental work in them most ingenious and
beautiful. There is more harness displayed
used, as the guide said, on gala occasions
with the coaches also used then.
	All this finery is to come out when the
Crown Prince is married next May. Then
the people may behold where a mint of
wealth is lying useless save during the pa-
geant of a royal marriage.
				LYDIA D. ALDER. 
	Berlin, March. 1905.

