UTAH COMMISSION, LEWIS AND CLARK
			EXPOSITION.
	One hundred years ago, Meriwether
Lewis and William Clark, under the direc-
tion of President Thomas Jefferson, crossed
the continent, explored the northwest, and
won for this nation the magnificent empire
that stretches from the backbone of the
continent to the prolific waters of the Pacific
ocean. An inspiring page ot American
history tells of the achievement of these
pioneers.
	Proud of this achievement, and reveling
in the prosperity that followed it, the peo-
ple of the northwest have completed plans
for the celebration of the centennial anni-
versary of the arrival of the pioneers in an
exposition to be held in the city of Port-
land, opening June 1 and closing O[-]tober
15. The sum of $5,000,000 has been se-
cured for the purpose The promise is
given that the display of the resources of
the West and of the Orient will be the
greatest in history.
	Utah is peculiarly interested in this ex-
hibition. There is much in the story of
the heroes who won the west for our nation
to appeal with force to the people of this
state—children and beneficiaries of a simi-
lar band of state builders. In addition to
this, Utah holds much in common with
the states of the West. In all branches of
industry, socially and politically, the states
of the Pacific slope are linked in the closest
ties. Most travelers from the East and
South will pass through Utah when they
visit Portland next summer.
	The legislature appropriated $30,000 to
enable this state to make an exhibit at this
exposition. As a basis, the commissioners
have in their possession part of the dis-
play made at St. Louis last year. They
have arranged for the erection of a state
building on a choice spot at the fair, and
in this one building will be arranged all
that Utah has to show.
	The citizens of the entire state are urged
to co-operate with the commsssioners to
the end that Utah, the baby sister in the
family of commonwealths, may appear to
advantage in the eyes of visitors from all
parts of the civilized world. The time is
short, and prompt action is urged. All ex-
hibits intended for the fair should be in the
hands of the commissioners in Salt Lake
not later than May 15 As far as possible,
members of the commission or those placed
in charge of particular departments will
visit the different parts of the state and ex-
plain in detail what is especially desired in
the way of exhib[-]ts.
	In the meantime, the headquarters of the
commission will be in the City and County
Building in Salt Lake, adjoining the office
of the Governor. There all interested in
the exhibit will be made welcome, and
there will be found some one ready and wil-
ling to furni[-]h information desired.
	John C. Cutler, Chairman, Wesley K.
Walton, Rudolph Cutler, Webb Greene, F.
W. Fishburn, commissioners for Utah.
	M. F. Cunningham, secretary, Spencer
Clawson, manager.


