THE POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTION.
			LONDON.
	By very few people in this country is it
known that such an institution as the Poly-
technic in London, Great Britain, exists.
	It was founded by Mr. Quinton Hogg.
At the age of eighteen years, after leaving
Eton, he entered the firm of Bosanquet,
Curtis & Co., merchants, of which he is now
the head.
	At that early age he began to manifest
an interest in homeless boys, i.e. 1863.
	He hired a small house in York Place,
Strand, where he opened a night ragged
school and shelter for destitute boys. The
work grew to such an extent that larger
premises were taken in Drury Lane
in an old warehouse, where he could have
a playground for physical exercise. Mr.
Hogg himself occupied a cubicle in the dor-
mitory. He was now joined in the work
by two fellow Etonians—the Hon. Lord
Kennard and the Hon. T. H. W. Pelham.
	He invited the boys who were well be-
haved to his country home, and became
the personal friend of all the boys who
came under his supervision. When one
showed a desire to improve himself, he ap-
prenticed him to a trade. About 1500 of
them he emigrated to Canada and the
United States
	In 1873 he found the boys he had ap-
prenticed brought their friends with them.
This necessitated some provision other than
a ragged school, so the Youth’s Christian
Institution was started with a membership
of 35. Soon the membership rose to hun-
dreds. In 1882 Mr. Hogg acquired the old
Polytechnic building in Regent Street, Lon-
don. For the premises and subsequent al-
terations he paid $750,000.
	Here he has since carried on a growing
work for young men, the like of which it
would be difficult to find in the world. To
see the president at his best, one should
contrive to meet him at the Polytechnic,
when the boys assemble at 9 o’clock p.m,
on weekdays.
	He calls and knows every boy by name,
and his house adjoins the institution at the
back.
	In 1882 one thousand members were en-
rolled, but the membership increased so
amazingly that in 1892 there were over
eleven thousand bona fide students. They
have over five hundred evening classes per
week in addition to a day school for eight
hundred boys and girls. The classes are for
art work, typewriting, shorthand, a techni-
cal school and engineering school. Perfect
order is maintained in every department,
in fact the whole machinery works with
perfect smoothness.
	Mr. Hogg was at first averse to mixing
the sexes, but he has d[-]parted more and
more from this principle yearly. The girls
who come are real students. They
have a separate gymnasium and reading
room. The nominal charge of 35 cents per
quarter or $1.25 per annum entitles the
girls to the use of the social rooms, sewing
rooms, and the Polytechnic itself, as far as
it is open to females.
	The swimming bath is reserved for their


use on Fridays only. There are special
classes for music, dressmaking, millinery,
needlework, cooking, and domestic econ-
omy.
	For the young men there is cricket, foot-
ball, rowing, swimming, lawn tennis, box-
ing, etc.
	Connected with the institution are the
following clubs and societies: Polytechnic
Ramblers, Boxing Club, West London
Rifles, Volunteer Medical Staff, Military
Band, Drum and Fife Band, Orchestral
Society, Electrical Engineering Society,
Photographic Society and Natural History
Society.
	Mr. Hogg soon found he could not entertain
the sick and those who needed rest, so hol-
iday homes were started on a paying basis.
He has also organized holiday trips of all
kinds and rates to meet the various circum-
stances. At Easter a batch of students
are sent to Oxford with a competent lec-
turer at a cost of $4 35 per week each. There
are also foreign holiday trips arranged at a
nominal cost to students. To Ardennes
and back with accommodation $18.75 per
week. A week in Switzerland $26 25. Two
weeks through Norway with a lecturer,
$41.25 for the trip. Eleven hundred stu-
dents were booked for the Chicago Exhibi-
tion for $135. By the same ship an ordi-
nary return fare to New York would have
been $125.
	The expenditure of the Polytechnic is
about $175,000 per annum. It is seldom
that it pays itself, but the deficits are made
up by its generous patron.
	I omitted to mention, it has an experi-
mental room, where any new invention
will be exhibited by application to the com-
mittee.
	No doubt the many interests to which the
Polytechnic appeals may partly explain its
wonderful success, but the one circumstance
which more than any other has contributed
to it, is the whole-hearted devotion of its
patron by which it was inspired and sus-
tained ever since its humble birth, when it
started with two ragged crossing sweepers.
