A HAPPY ANNIVERSARY.
	We regret not having published in this
issue the birthday celebration of our beloved
President Bathsheba W. Smith; the anni-
versary of her 83rd birthday occurred May
third of the present month, and the event
was beautifully observed with most pleasing
and appropriate exercises in Provo on May
Day both at the Brigham Young Univer-
sity, and at the Tabernacle, with an elabo-
rate reception in the evening. Presidents
Joseph F. Smith and John R. Winder hon-
ored the occasion by accepting the invita-
tion of Sister B. W. Smith’s counselor,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, who planned this
happy affair in honor of her President.
	On her real birthday anniversary May
third, there was a very pleasant gathering
of about one hundred of her relatives and
friends at the handsome residence of Broth-
er and Sister W N. Williams, and again
this reverend mother in Israel received an-
other ovation, which we hope to give to our
readers more complete, as also the celebra-
tion in Provo.


[Column 1]
	HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS.
	Our readers are undoubtedly all aware
that this number of the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT completes the thirty-third volume, and
whatever may be said of this little periodi-
cal, or whatever critici[-]m may be made, one
thing must be said if truth is told, it has al-
ways stood tor the principles of right and
never pandered to the vitiated tastes and
frivolities of modern society, or entered
into any arguments that would lead to con-
troversy adverse to the best interests of the
community in which it is circulated, as a
medium of information for women and the
organizations established for their helpful-
ness, and their higher education in all that
will develop the best qualities of woman’s
nature; and whatever is best for women is
always best for society at large, and assur-
edly in the home circle.
	This paper is essentially “Mormon,” as
the term is used, and it is the aim of the
editor to make every effort towards main-
taining the spirit of the Latter-day work in
its columns, so that no harm may or can be
done to the most delicate mind in perusing
its contents.
	The women’s organizations of the Church
are and should be conducted on such lines
as breathe the true spirit of the everlasting
Gospel, inculcating faith in God, and in the

[Column 2]Savior of mankind. The light that has
come into the world in this last dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times, must be diffused
through those who have accepted the teach-
ings of prophets and apostles raised up in
this day, and therefore all who write and all
who teach and exhort should be careful of
their words and of tbe spirit which accom-
panies them.
	The women of Zion have been highly
favored in the privileges that have come to
them, even in this far off western land; at
an early date comparatively speaking they
were given equal suffrage, in February,
1870, and very soon after this little paper
was started, in which they had the oppor-
tunity of expressing their views on all ques-
tions which pertained to their conditions
aud circumstances, and their future hopes
and prospects.
	The bound volumes of the EXPONENT
extending back to June, 1872, contain many
very able articles from the pen of the wom-
en pioneers and heroines of the e rly days of
the Church, which are valuable history and
these pages have been read by huudreds of
women outside the church, who have been
interested in suffrage and organized work
among women, particu[-]arly charitable and
philanthropic people. A complete file of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was on exhibi-
tion at the Paris Exposition in 1900, and
at “The Hague.”
	In this and other ways this little mes-
senger of peace and truth has been bene-
ficial, and the sisters who have been actu-
ally engaged in public duties in the
Church, might gather much useful inform-
ation by reading the articles written by the
sisters who live here and those who travel
abroad.
	If more of the sisters would devote a lit-
tle time to waiting it would be a help and
development for themselves and add to the
variety which is always pleasing, and pos-
sibly be the means of doing great good, for
assuredly writing good things is like “cast-
ing bread upon the waters,” it may reach a
hungry soul longing for comfort, and it is
perhaps sowing good seed that may spring
up and bear fruit. Dear sisters, you who
desire to do good by developing your ideas
and adding to the storehouse of knowledge
for the benefit of others, write for our little
paper and give your testimonies and such
incidents in your experience as are valuable
for record, and would be helpful to our
many readers here and elsewhere, for the
EXPONENT is read in many lands.


