R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Uintah
stake was held at Maeser ward, Nov. 24,
1904, president Sarah M. Colton presiding.
Singing, prayer by Patriarch Nelson Merk-
ley,  singing. Minutes approved. Presi-
dent Colton welcomed the sisters and re-
ported the stake as being in good condition.
Sister Addie Longhurst gave a lecture on
the duties of Relief Society workers. Pres-
dents of Vernal, Mountain Dell, and Jen-
sen wards reported their wards as being in
good condition. Essay by Sister Mary J.
Searle of Mountain Dell. Counselor Agnes
Bennion spoke of the evils that surround
us, said we should be patient with our
children. Patriarch Nelson Merkeley spoke
at some length of the prophecies of ancient
and modern times and their fulfilment.
	Singing and adjournment until 2 o’clock.
Benediction by Sister Abbie Oaks.
	Afternoon session.—We continued con-
ference.  Singing, prayer by Elder John
Galloway. Singing “Praise to tLe man
who communed with Jehovah.” Minutes
read and approved. The general and local
officers were sustained.
	Recitation: Maggie Billings of Jensen:
the presidents of Naples and Glines report-
ed their wards as being in fair condition.
Sister Caroline Stringam spoke of the good
derived from attending meetings and Sab-
bath school referred to some of the Savior’s
sayings. Bishop S. D. Colton gave all pres-
ent some good counsel on different subjects.
Counselor John Galloway spoke of the good
the Relief Society was doing. Counselor
Nancy A. Colton spoke of character and
reputation. Sister Kate Calder spoke of
the young people aud of charity.
	Pres. Colton gave some instructions to
the sisters in regard to their duties. Ap-
pointed next conference to be held inGlines
ward.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing ‘[-]The time is far spent,” Benedic-
diction by Bishop S. D. Colton.
		TETON STAKE
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence was held at Driggs, March 9th, 1905,
There was a good representation from all
the branches of the Teton Valley. Jackson
Valley was not represented on account of
the road being so bad over the divide. The
stake Presidency, a number of the high
council and also a number of Bishops were
in attendance. All the branches in the
Stake but one were reported as being in a
prosperous condition. Each one of these
had a subject prepared such as “True
charity,’’ Appreciation of officers,” Duties
of motherhood,” etc. The subjects were
well presented. The vocal selections by
Sister Annie Buxton were enjoyed by the
audience. It was the largest congregation
and the most enjoyable conference that the
Teton Stake Relief Society has had since
the organization of our stake. The house
was well filled. The instructions which
were very spicy were enjoyed by all.
	Our beloved Pres. Sophia E. Rigby has
recovered of late from a severe attack of
typhoid fever which was contracted while
she was nursing her daughter Eva, who
was so seriously afflicted that in a few days
she was taken to the great beyond where
she will receive the crown which is enjoyed
by the righteous.
