GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief So-
ciety convened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city on Wednesday, April 5,
1905, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsbeba W. Smith presiding. The
handsome new Relief Society banner was
hung conspicuously on the organ, and ad
ded much to the appearance of the back-
ground of the stand, which was ornamented
with potted palms and plants.
	Meeting opened with congregational sing-
ing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.” Prayer by Sister Susan Grant,
singing, “O ye mountains high,” etc.
	President B. W. Smith made the address
of welcome, expressed herself pleased to see
so many present at the morning session, and
would like to take them all by the hand and
hear from each one, but knew there would
not be time; she always rejoiced to meet
with the Relief Society, and prayed that the
Lord would give His Spirit to those assem-
bled that they might be happy together,
and if any one had not a testimony of the
truth, that they might receive one; above
all she desired we might keep the faith,
and we must have true love for each other,
said “I bless you, my sisters, with all the
power and authority I have, and may we
all keep the faith and be saved in the celes-
tial kingdom.”
	Roll call by the secretary.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde introduced
President Susannah T. Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, who made a concise report of the
condition of the Society there, giving in de-
tail a financial statement, and also spoke of
the activity of the sisters in that locality.
	Counselor Hyde then introduced Presi-
dent Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache Stake, who
followed in a similar strain, reporting
briefly the temporal and spiritual conditions.
	President Susan Grant, of Davis Stake,
was next introduced, and gave substantial-
ly the same sort of report.
	President Nellie C. Parkinson, of Hyrum
Stake, introduced. Sister Parkinson spoke
of the wheat stored up and of the lectures
given to young mothers, the progress made
and her hopes of the future.
	President Mary E. Sorenson, Emery Stake,
reported seven granaries and five Relief So-
ciety halls owned by the Society, other
things most encouraging.
	Counselor H. Huldah Larson gave an
equally good report of Jordan Stake.
	Kanab Stake, reported by the secretary,


[Column 1]
Mercy Spencer, the president could not
come, they were very far from headquarters
and away from railroads, in an isolated
locality and many adverse circumstances to
contend with, but withal were trying to
serve the Lord. All these presidents were
courteously introduced to the conference.
	Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley, one of the
sweet singers of Israel, sang a solo, “Home
So Dear,” accompanied on the organ by
Sister Vilate Nebeker Bennion, as an encore
she gave, “The Swallow to God leaves her
young within her nest,” the music was
much appreciated.
	Morgan Stake was represented by Presi-
dent Lydia Rich, who spoke especially of
the interest taken by the brethren of the
Stake in their meetings and conferences,
they were often visited by members of the
High Council or Patriarchs.
	President Elizabeth Layton of St. Joseph
Stake, gave quite a full account of the work
of the Relief Society in that part of Arizo-
na, which was very interesting, and rather
out of the ordinary method of reports
which in a way are necessarily very simi-
lar.
	Granite Stake, represented by President
Emma S. Woodruff, was also an exceed-
ingly interesting report, and the amount of
work accomplished seemed almost incredi-
ble, but the activity of the sisters in charit-
able and philanthropic work and the ability
they have to accumulate means is becoming
well known:
	President Clarissa S. Williams, of Salt
Lake Stake, one of those recently or-
ganized by the division of the former
greater Salt Lake Stake, gave her report,
it is not quite a year old yet, but has made
in that short time a fine showing along sev-
eral lines, in making charity visits and
among the sick, and the means disbursed
during just about eight months since they
have been in working order has been very
considerable.
	Panguitch Stake, reported by the secre-
tary, Margaret Haycock, like some other
stakes in places remote from railroads, the
people have many difficulties to meet and
overcome, consequently cannot progress in
some ways quite as rapidly, but spiritually
are doing just as well, which is after all the
main thing.
	President Louisa Benson, Oneida Stake,
reported some progress in young moth-
ers coming forward and taking active
part, and also more grain being stored
than heretofore, and altogether a little im-
provement all around.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber Stake,
referred to the first organization of the So-
ciety in Nauvoo, though there were oniy a
few members they had the spirit of the
work, and the Prophet Joseph to meet with
them from time to time. In regard to
Weber County they had a good-sized Relief
Society hall in that Stake, and at the last
officers’ meeting there was not standing room
there were so many present. She felt
we could not be too energetic in charity
work, visit the aged and comfort them as
well as the needy and the sick.
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. Sing-
ing, “We thank thee, O God,” etc. Bene-
diction by Sister Carrie S. Thomas.

	Afternoon session, 2 p, m., opened by
singing, Professor C. J. Thomas leader,
with members the Tabernacle choir,

[Column 2]
Hymn, “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah. Prayer by Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts, singing by the choir, “Give me
thy heart.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke up
on visiting the sick and needy. “My dear
sisters, I am very much pleased to see so
many here, and I feel to bless you all for
the work you are doing in this labor of
love. I have brought something to read to
you from the Prophet’s sayings.” She
then read: “The sectarians have no charity
for me, but I have for them, and I intend
to send men to them in the spirit world
that they may receive the Gospel by proxy,
that they may be redeemed and come into the
kingdom-” The Prophet also said he in-
tended to make of this society one accord-
ing to the ancient priesthood, a kingdom of
priests. Sister Smith remarked that all
who were present on the day when the
Prophet Joseph organized the society had
passed away, every one except herself,
many hundreds were added to the society
in Nauvoo afterwards, but when we came
away from there the society was broken up,
after we came here it was organized again
in wards, and so on. “Look around this
house and you will see what has been 
the result, and we have never been left yet
without a prophet, and we don’t expect to
be. The Prophet Joseph said every virtu-
ous woman ought to belong to the Relief
Society, and we have kept it select, and we
want to be, and to keep ourselves pure. I
have worked with my hands and not
dressed much, or thought much about it.
When I was a young girl I was anxious to
go to Z[-]on and wanted to go with my sis-
ter, and I felt like my heart would break
when I was disappointed, and a voice just
said to me, ‘Don’t cry, you will go and
right away too,’ and it cheered me up, and
I felt happy, and it came to pass, and al-
most as soon as we arrived in Missouri the
mob came, but I felt that Mormonism was
true. The mob took the Prophet and
others and put them in prison and treated
them awfully, and finally after many trials
and persecutions and we were driven from
the state, we got a home again in Nauvoo,
then the enemy drove us again, and they
would do it now if they could, but they
will drive us together and we will have
more love, and we will keep in the path of
duty; this is my prayer, that we may be
saved in the celestial kingdom. Amen.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry: “The
baby that said in the Kindergarten, ‘I love
everybody here,’ certainly expressed my
feeling for everyone here. Faith sustains
us all through our lives, one of the sisters
reported that their missionaries visited the
schools, if you had all been teachers, as I
have, possibly you might know better than
you do what this means to the school and
the teachers; if this practice could be ad-
opted by our sisters, it would benefit the
child who always takes pride in being not-
iced; we want the child awakened spiritual-
ly, the mother asks when? It is a hard
question to answer. The mother can do
most.” The speaker referred to a conver-
sation she had with a young lady who had
been waiting ou an invalid mother eight
years, spoke of her as refinement itself, our
thoughts should be our guides, if we can
only set good examples of purity before
our children and have an influence of spir-
itual refinement and of gentleness, it will
give us some satisfaction in living.
	Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley, accompan-
ied by Miss Coray, gave a sublime and im-

[Column 3]
pressive rendering of “Ava Maria,” which
was highly appreciated.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams spoke speci-
ally upon Relief Society work, she realized
that those as[-]embled there wanted to get
something to help them, the Prophet Jos-
eph organized the Relief Society, some-
times we are narrow enough to think that
feeding the hungry and clothing the desti-
tute is all; but one thing is to be saviors of
all; if he had not had the confidence of those
who were with him, he could not have done
the work he did, our sisters, in their acts
of charity should carry with them the spirit
of saviors of Zion, honest and truthful; we
believe that in the years that this society 
has been established, the Prophet Joseph’s
sayings have been very helpful; he often
spoke of charity, and that if we saw a fault
we should not by word or deed magnify it,
he meant we should have the charity which
teaches us to love each other, there is a say-
ing that I saw on the wall of the Relief
Society hall in Beaver, containing the senti-
ments the Prophet implied when he taught
the society at that first meeting; the work
of ministering to the sick and afflicted is one
that needs attention, there are many ways
of caring for the sick and old people living
alone: if we could have a little home for
these aged ones it would be very gratify-
ing, we feel the need of it more in the
city; while the nurses do much of this
they are not always needed, and there are
many little kindnesses required that help to
sweeten one’s loneliness in declining years,
may we have wisdom to guide us in all our
work, we pray the Lord to bless our proph-
et in this day.
	An original poem by Sister E. B. Wells,
entitled “The Elect Lady,” and addressed
to the General President. Bathsheba W.
Smith, was read by the author.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings: “Bringing
the young women into the Relief Society
has been spoken of today, aud I want to
say a few words that will bring the young
women in with us. Why could we not
have a class in each ward for sewing, and
have a capable woman to take charge of the
work? We want to ensure happiness, we
have so many cares, so much work to do,
even the mending of stockings could be
done when a few come together, and have
a little pleasure in the meantime in associ-
ating together, mothers would be glad to
sit down for awhile; and even fine needle
work could be brought in; many young wo-
men have not had the opportunity of being
properly taught how to sew and mend, let
them learn these important things, that are
needed in the home. Don’t let our young
girls go to these public dances, let us guard
the steps of the young, we are here to save
our souls, let us reach out our arms in th'is
way; some do not wish the care of house-
keeping, but all these things are womanly,
let us have the sewing class, it will attract
the girls; I love the young people, love to
have them around me, these things are for
the betterment of women and betterment of
men. In looking upon this audience it
does not seem as if the Relief Society was
dead. I pray for our President and for
President Joseph F. Smith.”
	Professor Charles Kent, with his magni-
ficent voice accompanied by his wife, rend-
ered in the most feelingly expressive style,
the hymn composed by President John Tay-
lor, and familiar to all Latter day Saints,
“The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer."
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert, by special re-
quest, told of the first time this hymn was


sung, she was at the house of President
John Taylor, he had just composed it, and
sent for Brother John Kay to sing it, and it
thrilled every one wonderfully then, and it
has been sung so much and always seems
to have that peculiar effect, the speaker al-
luded to having known all the Prophets
and Apostles in the Church; expressed great
emotion in relating some instances of her
experience.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth was called
unexpectedly, she loved the Relief Society,
thought there was no love so great as that
between parents and children, the family
government does not devolve alone upon
the father, but often more upon the mother,
explained very clearly some of her thoughts
upon this subject and of the children in the
home.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made the clos-
ing speech, expressed herself delighted
with the reports given, and believed there
was a marked progress being made in the
society, thought if we would always have a
song in our hearts it would be helpful all
the time. “Sisters, don’t get so tired you
can’t speak a kind word to your children;
we want to establish something to throw a
safeguard around our young girls who come
here to go out to service and to obtain situ-
ations in offices, and so on, and we are mak
ing an effort to do this and many other
things.” 
	Conference closed with the rendering of
the beautiful melody, “Joy and Light,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas assisted by Miss Green,
Mrs. John R. Winder, and Bishop James
Maxwell.
	The Relief Society is greatly indebted to
Prof. Thomas and some of the finest singers
in the Temple choir for the beautiful music
they have given from time to time, which
has added so much to the meetings, and
their efforts have been greatly appreciated
by all those who have listened to the sweet
tones.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction pronounced by Sister Priscilla
Smith.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


