		BLACKFOOT.

Lecture I. Prayer.
	“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire,
		Uttered or unexpressed,
	The motion of a hidden fire,
		That trembles in the breast.”

	“Prayer is the key to heaven.” Occa-
sion and object of prayer. Reference:—
Luke 18: 17 38 verses; Gen. 18: 23; Sam.
1st chapter; Doctrine and Covenants, Sec.
52: 59; Sec. 58; 33. Pray always.

Lecture 2. Charity.
“Soft peace it brings wherever it arrives,
It bids our quiet—‘latent hope revive,’
Lays the rough path of nature—‘smooth and even,’
And opens in each breast a little heaven.”

	“Charity is the golden chain from heaven
to earth.” “Charity never faileth.” Ref-
erence:—I Cor. 13th Chapter.

Lecture 3. Occupation.
	Be what nature intended you for and you
will succeed. The dignity of occupation
should be judged by its usefulness. Do not
waste time, money and energy in endless
changes and wanderings, but find what
you are adapted for and pursue that with
the energy of your whole soul. “Occupation
in the home.” “Occupation iu the busi-
ness world.” “Occupation in church and
society.”

Lecture 4. Use of Time.
	Time is a blessed heritage from our
heavenly Father. It is a probation,—use
it well. Wise use of time. Unwise use of
time. Indifferent use of time or lack of
purpose in action, “The idle shall not eat

[Column 3]
the bread of industry.” References:—Doc-
trine and Covenants, Sec. 56: 29; Doctrine
and Covenants. Sec. 48: 30-31.

Lecture 5. Wisdom.
	Wisdom is a gift of God.—James 1: 5.
If any man lack wisdom let him ask
of God that giveth to all men liberally and
upbraideth not and it shall be given him.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom. Read from Doctrine and Cove-
nants 42: 68. Wisdom is defined as the
right use and exercise of knowledge. Re-
fer to Proverbs 4: 5, 14, second chapter.

Lecture 6. Virtue.
	Prov. 31: 10. Who can find a virtuous
woman, for her price is above rubies.	We
should ever be diligent in training our
children to guard their virtue as they would
their lives. Refer to 2 Peter, 1: 5; also
Phil. 14: 8. “Virtue will bring its own
reward.”

Lecture 7. Character.
	The mother in her office holds the key of
the soul and it is she who stamps the coin
of real character. What is character?
Character is defined as follows: “The pe-
culiar qualities impressed by nature or
habit, on a person which distinguish him
from others; these constitute real charac-
ter.” Our environments and education
have much to do with our character.
