			NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Nebo
stake Relief Society convened in the Spring
Lake meeting house, April 14, 1905,

[Column 3]
President Lilyus C. Page presiding. Con-
gregation sang, prayer by David Butler,
singing. Minutes read and approved.
	Sister L. C. Page thanked the people of
Spring Lake for their cordial greeting. Sis-
ter Vina Moore, president of the Spring
Lake society, welcomed all at the confer-
ence, felt pleased to have the conference
here, read an address delivered by President
Roosevelt to the Congress of Mothers on
race suicide. Sister Page gave a report of
the conference in Salt Lake City.
	Song by Sister Cecil Speinhower. Sister
Mary A. Bingham reported the Benjamin
Society as being complete in its organiza-
tion, having paid $30 to the woman’s buii-
ding. Goshen Society was reported by
Pres, Mary Ann Price as being in good
condition. Stster Sarah Swensen reported
the Relief Society of the Fourth ward of
Spanish Fork. First ward of Payson was
represented by Sister Amy Hancock, own
meeting house and granary
	Recitation, Alice Butler Smith, Aunt
Hannah’s Thanksgiving Sermon.
	Sister Sarah Roberts of Goshen spoke on
the slackness of people in attending to their
duties, this is what is bringing trouble
upon us as a people. Prophesied that
President Smith would prevail and his ene-
mies be brought to naught;
	Sister Moore said she did not want any-
body to go away, but stay to lunch.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing, closing prayer by Susannah Pick-
ering.
	Afternoon session: Choir and congrega-
tion sang, prayer by Bishop William Taylor
of Spring Lake ward, singing. Minutes
read and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Pierce spoke on the Word
of Wisdom. Sister Sarah Swenson spoke
on obedience to those in authority over us,
	A ladies’ quartette was rendered by mem-
bers of the Spring Lake ward Sunday school
—“Sweet wild-wood flowers.”
	Sister Mary A. Hallam spoke on various
principles of the Gospel and bore testimony
to the truth thereof. Sister Emma S. Jen-
kins of Goshen spoke of the use of the Doc-
trine and Covenants and Church History
in the home to instruct our children.
	Recitation, Sister Annie Bennett, “Which
shall it be?”
	Brother Hyrum Simmons, of the Stake
Presidency, spoke on the object of the Re-
lief Society and an understsnding of theGos-
pel. The Doctrine and Covenants is our
guide in this day. Bishop William Taylor
felt glad of the privilege of having a stake
conference at our place, believed the time
is coming when all will be tried, hoped to
stand faithful to the end, hoped this con-
ference would be a help to the people of
this ward to encourage them to do better.
	Stake Counselor Eliza J. Dixon felt tru-
ly grateful for the way in which we have
been entertained today; compared the dif-
ferent sections of the Church to a great
picture to be painted by many artists; illus-
trated how bad habits have control over us.
gave notice that this conference will be ad-
journed for three months, to July 14th at
Payson.
	Choir and congregation sang. Benedic-
tion by Martha S. Kapple.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Asst. Sec.


On May 18 the various Peace Societies
throughout the world and numerous organ-
izations of women celebrated the anniver-
sary of the establishment of the Hague
Court of International Arbitration.


