WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Alpine Stake was held at
Lehi, April 21, 1905. Meeting convened
at 10 o’clock, President Rebecca Standring
presiding. Singing. Prayer, Brother Schow.
Singing. Minutes read and approved.
	President Standring greeted the sisters in
her usual kind and motherly way. “The
Lord has promised that if we are faithful
we shall never be overcome;” stated that all
the wards had been visited except two, dur-
ing the last quarter, and some twice; prayed
the Lord to bless the presidents and inspire
them with with the spirit of the Lord.
Every ward in the Stake being represent-
ed, all seem to be doing their utmost to
further the great work. Good meetings
are held, several new meeting houses have
been built recently and the sisters have
done a good word in helping to finish and
furnish them.
	After the reports, President Standring
gave instructions in regard to our March
celebration, asked the wards to meet con-
jointly as far as possible on that day, and
have fellowship together, and not particu-
larly for making means, but each member,
if ever so poor, should consider it her duty

[Column 2]
to pay her fee of ten cents. Advised the
sisters to buy wheat with the money they
have on hand, and not keep it or use it in
any other way. “It is our mission to save
souls,” and she thought we should have to
have missionaries in our stake to visit every
house and stir up the sisters to their duty.
	Singing Benediction, Sister E. Feather-
stone. Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session Conference, 2 p. m.
Singing. Prayer, Brother William South-
wick. Singing. Minutes read and accept-
ed. President Standring prayed that the
speakers might all be inspired by the Spirit
of the Lord in their remarks. Stak[-] Presi-
dent Stephen L Chipman said the Spirit of
the Lord is a wonderful influence, and it
makes people humble and meek, charitable
and long suffering. Christ is the chief
c[-]rner stone of this work. Our enemies
would strike our religion out of existence,
but it is the Lord’s work and it has come to
stay. Prophets and Apostles are with us,
and there is no doubt as to the outcome of
this work. It s not those who pay tith-
ing that find fault, but those who do not
observe this law. President Chipman read
the revelation on tithing. There is no
part of the tithing but is handled by the
proper authority and every dollar can be ac-
counted for satisfactorily by the people.
Part of the tithes are used for the bene t of
schools, some for the building of meeting
houses and for the establishment of foreign
missions and the poor receive a benefit from
the tithing.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley: “This
society is a grand organization where we
can understand the fruits of the Spirit, and
where our testimony may be strengthened
and it is a pleasure to do our duty.” Refer-
red to our General Conference and the spir-
it of the reports, and thought our Stake
would compare favorably with other stakes;
felt thankful for the love and unity exist-
ing.
	President James H. Clark: “This is not
the work of man, look at those who have
been instruments in bringing the work to
this point, it is marvelous. The Lord gives
us strength and blesses us with faith to
continue. How many there are in this
Church faithful women who have husbands
who are careless and negligent. What can
they do? They can pray, pray continually
and the Lord will hear their prayers and
answer them, and the wayward ones will
be brought to repentance. God is with the
work and is guarding it. If the principle
of tithing is not true, the whole fabric is
false.” Spoke of the church in Chicago
built by tithing; also in Denmark and
Sweden. Look at our comfortable homes.
Sister Sina Chipman felt we had had a
feast today, could see great beauty in the
principles of the Gospel, had listened to the
testimony of a lady who was one of the
wives of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
who related many of the troubles and driv-
ings of the people in that day, what they
endured for the Gospel’s sake and for the
establishment of the work of the Lord in
this last dispensation.
	Singing. Closing prayer, Patriarch Wil-
liam Clark. Conference adjourned for three
months.
