R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also childrenwho are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


[Column 1]
TRIBUTE TO SISTER CAROLINE PACE.
	“Sister Caroline Pace is dead.” These
words brought sorrow to every household
that was wont to receive succor in the past
from the hand of the departed, and they
were multitudes.
	What a beautiful life was hers on earth!
A ministering angel in times of sorrow,
blessed with a gladsome soul for those who
could smile. She would brave the elements
in the fiercest of storms to alleviate the sor-
row and suffering of the poor and distressed,
without one thought of personal gain; the
knowledge that she could do some one some
good was sufficient for her.
	Imagine a woman whose every thought
was for the welfare of those about her;
whose hand and brain were never idle, but
always working for the accomplishment of
good; whose faith has accomplished wonders
at the bedside of the sick; whose presence
has lightened the cares and bandaged up
the hope of the convalescent; and whose
never failing faith in her Heavenly Father
made her a heroine in the presence of death
—such a woman was Aunt Caroline Pace.
Already we have asked; “Who will care
for the dead, now Sister Pace is gone?”
	Aunt Caroline, no grave stone need be
erected to perpetuate your memory—your
life’s labor form a grand monument, whose
beauty cannot be marred by the crumbling
influence of the elements, nor whose epitaph
can be effaced by the ever ceaseless flow of
the stream of time.

[Column 2]
	She is not lost, only gone before to a
greater sphere where her beautiful life will
grow more beautiful by contact with the
peaceful influence of Heavenly presence.
	God grant that she may rest in peace and
that we may live lives sufficiently pure to
meet with her in the spirit world for we
feel to say to meet her there will be to know
Heaven.

