TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER JOHN.
	The members of the Relief Society of
the Utah Stake successfully surprised their
president, Mary John, and the other Stake
officers, Dec. 23, 1904, it being the anniver-
sary of Sister John’s birthday, as well as the
Prophet Joseph Smith’s.
	A delightful program was rendered, con-
sisting of songs, readings, instrumental
music and addresses. An interesting feat-
ure was the reading of a manuscript paper,
expressing sentiments of love and respect
for Sister John and the other officers.
	After the program, a delicious dinner was
served to about three hundred people.
Toasts and short speeches made the time
pass all too soon.
	Emma J. Bennett, chairman; the presi-
dents of the six wards of Provo, committee.
		MARY SMOOT GLAZIER, Sec.
	The following was a tribute of love writ-
ten for Sister John:
		TO DEAR SISTER JOHN.
The harvest was ripe, the Master came,
And cailed the Reapers in Christ's dear name,
You heard and answered the sacred call.
You laid on the altar your heart, your all.
You have fed His lambs and His hungered sheep;
Have dried the tears of His loved ones who weep;
With a Saint’s sweet faith you have banished fear,
When hops was silent and death stood near,
The living you’ve solaced, have clothed and fed,
Have folded the hands of the silent dead;
The meek and the lowly have been [-]our care,
Loving and giving your life’s best prayer.
Your mother-love, like a beacon star.
Has sent its light into paths afar,
hose vou have guided and given rest,
Will rise, dear sister, to call you blest.
The sunset is closing about your life.
Your life of toil and of mortal strife,
A sunset of beauty, of wond’rotts light,
That turns to glory all gloom of night.
We come to greet you this natal day,
A humble tribute in love to pray,
Your hand to clasp and your heart to cheer.
To honor a life that is near and dear.
God bless you, sister, aye, may you hear,
The whisper of angels forever near,
May peace, like a halo, surround your way,
And fill your soul, is the prayer we pray.
