Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Honored The President's suite in the Hotel Utah was: the scene of another festive occasion on Wednesday, february 20th, when a dinner was given to honor three Board Members, but particularly to take note of the services of Sister Jennie B. Knight, first counselor to President Clarissa Smith Williams during the period of her presidency and now a member of the General Board. The committee consisted of Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Corsage bouquets were placed at the covers of Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Miss Alice L. Reynolds, and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, in recognition of the cordial welcome and hospitality extended to Board Members during the recent Leadership Week held at the Brigham Young University. The dinner was arranged especially to give the Board Members an opportunity to express appreciation to Sister Knight. To this end, all the Board Members paid her tribute EDITORIAL 185 and were exceedingly happy for the opportunity. Some did it through the: medium of stories which were part of Sister Knight's history, and some through tributes to her sterling qualities. The dinner was arranged by Mrs. Emma A. Empey and presided over by President Louise Y. Robison. It was an occasion of festive cheer and good will. Mrs. Knight was presented with a book in a beautiful leather cover resembling Roycroft work—a book that can be used by her for her notes when she goes out to conventions or on any occasion when she wishes to use it. The presentation speech was made by Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, who in fitting words expressed the appreciation of the Board to Sister Knight and their devotion to her. The Centenary of the Organization of the Church We are just one year from the centenary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It will be the privilege of all organizations connected with the Church during the next year to demonstrate what the output of this great spiritual movement has been. This demonstration may be carried on in many ways. Art is one of the mediums of expression: it is possible to employ art in public addresses, poetry, essays, dramas, music, painting, sculpture, pageantry, as well as in exhibitions of scientific, industrial and economic achievements. This, year may be one of assembling and of arranging many things, to the end that all shall be in readiness for the centenary in April, 1930. The Relief Society will have its place and in a variety of ways be able to demonstrate and review the story of its growth and achievements, establishing thereby its worth as a great welfare organization. Editor's Note Mrs. Julina Green is the author of the poem, "A Reverie' which was published in the March number of the Magazine. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, as its author. | The Ugly Duckling By Estelle Webb Thomas IT. December 25-—-or 26—1 a. M.—Just slipped a bath-robe over my night gown to keep from freezing, and a cap over my marcell to keep from spoiling it (the things are expensive), and am sitting up in bed to write till I get sleepy, which time isn't far distant. Quite an interesting Christmas day for a lone, lorn Ugly Duckling! After my light lunch, I put on my new tan suit, and made a few calls as per schedule. Had several invitations to stay with people, but declined them all as I want to rest and relax this holiday and not be obliged to wear my pleasant expression all the time—too much like school. When I reached home in the early dusk, I found a funny old creature camped on the front step, who said that she had been over three times, and the last time "jest set down to wait till I did come!'" She brought a little note from Mrs. Douglas, next door, saying that she was a good friend, though a recent one, of mother's; and as her son had told her that I was all alone in the house, she, had taken the liberty of asking me to dine with them this evening. Mrs. Douglas proved to be a delightful old lady and put me at my ease at once, especially as the son was not present at first. As she made no reference to our little escapade, I presumed he had not mentioned it. He came in from the street in a few minutes and greeted me pleasantly but formally as the old servant came in to announce dinner. They are the sort of people who can be entertaining, and still make a guest feel interesting and at his best, too. When dinner was over, Mrs. Douglas begged to be excused, as she invariably retires immediately after dinner, and she "was sure Donovan would do his best to entertain me." I was surprised to see "Donovan" unconcernedly lift the old lady in his arms (I had noticed that she was very lame), and after asking me to excuse him for a moment, walk calmly and easily up the stairs with her. He was back immediately and suggested that we "step out' as the evening was still young. So we saw "Charlie's Aunt," played by a bunch of High School kids in the H. S. Auditorium. Mr. Douglas suggested a dance afterward—there was one in progress at Daly's Movie Palace, but J  felt he had sufficiently atoned for his last evening's faux pas and said I had rather go home. I preferred to walk too, for the night was clear and starry and beautifully white with snow. Mr. Douglas hesitated after he had said "Good-night," and asked if I wouldn't let him start my fire before he left. I hadn't intended having a fire, but no one will ever know how relieved I was at having someone go in with me and turn on the lights. Goodness knows, I'm not a coward; but there's something about going into a dark, empty house—! Well, the upshot of it was, that we passed a most interesting hour before the fire, with some of mother's fruit-cake, and my home-smoked cocoa for refreshment. When he finally left we had a good many side-lights on each other's history and felt quite like old friends. December 27—-Had lunch today with Sally Turner, who used to be the class ninny, but who now has me bested by the possession of a cute little house, a set of new furniture, and a husband.