Pioneers: WHEN WEST WAS WEST—OWEN WISTER By Lais V. Hales "When West Was West" is a recently published book of nine short stories written by the well known American writer Owen Wister. Mr. Wister knew the west in all its glory. Born of Quaker parentage in Philadelphia in 1860, he, like his beloved friend Theodore Roosevelt, came west in 1885 for his health. He stayed for several months on a Wyoming ranch. This was the only one of many visits to the west where he fished and hunted to his heart's content. He came to know intimately the landscape, the soldiers, the cowboys, and the Indians. He learned to love this country dearly, and felt that it was too little appreciated; so he began to write sketches and short stories about it. Today he is one of the best known, best loved, and most read of the present-day American writers of the west. "When West Was West" is a monument to the old West, a west which he knew when it was really west. In theme the stories are very different, but Mr. Wister writes equally well of the varied phases of pioneer life. To show the scope and variety of the book, as well as its bearing on pioneer life, we should like to speak especially about four of these stories. "Bad Medicine," the opening story in the book, gives us a colorful picture of the Indian, who played so important a part in our pioneer life. The story deals with a visit to Yellowstone Park in the early days of its history. Against this background Mr. Wister portrays the Indian with his fears, his superstitions, and his reticence. We feel the elemental quality of the red man. "Did this descendant of wars and wildernesses know the centuries dividing us that his quietness mysteriously conveyed. With his drooping-headed, saturnine animal, he seemed to share some intimate lore of nature that I and all white men were shut out from." As he casts himself into the crater we feel still more strongly how close to nature he is and how little we understand him. "The Right Honorable the Strawberries" is the story of the son of an old English title, young, handsome, likeable, who came to the West and captured the heart of the upright cow-puncher Chalkeye. In the relationship between the Englishman and the American we see the difference between the Old World and the New. The fathomless reticence of the English coupled with the startling Western freedom of speech—freedom as to their incomes, their families, their gaieties—is deep beyond all American understanding. How could Chalkeye, with his freedom where the Englishmen is silent, understand Strawberries. How could he know "that the true aristocrat always is the best democrat, because he is at his ease with everybody, and makes them so with him." Yet, between the two, grew up a friendship which PIONEERS 205 prompted Chalkeye to give his life for Strawberries, and brought Strawberries back to Drybone long after all others had left it. In Chalkeye we have one of Mr. Wister's best characterizations. One day Rudyard Kipling and Owen Wister were returning by train from Washington after dining with their mutual friend Theodore Roosevelt. They were talking "shop," and Wister told the story of a disaster that occurred at a certain military post as a result of the annoyance caused to a certain lively-minded captain by the length of a certain chaplain's hair. An Apache, carefully rehearsed by the captain, played his part in the story. Kipling found the story so good that he said it must be written and entitled "Absalom." Years later Mr. Wister wrote the story and it is included in this book under the title "Absalom and Moulting Pelican." Colonel Steptoe McDee, a Southern gentleman, is a commanding figure, strong, alert, and intelligent. Brokenhearted over the outcome of the Civil War, he comes to the West and meets Randy, a typical Western boy. The warm friendship between these two of such varying ages and traditions is one of the finest things Wister has portrayed. Tragedy has always followed in the wake of the railroad. "At the Sign of The Last Chance," the closing story in the book, tells of the tragedy wrought by the railroad to an old inn where the coaches changed horses or stopped for meals in the good old days. Just a few old men playing a listless game was all Wister found on his last visit. He thus describes it: "I had begun to see those beards long before they were gray; when no wire fence mutilated the freedom of the range; when fourteen mess-wagons would be at the spring round up; when cattle wandered and pastured, dotting the endless wilderness; when roping them brought the college graduate and the boy who had never learned to read, into a lusty equality of youth and skill; when songs rose by the camp-fire; and the dim form of the night herder leaned on his saddle horn as under the stars he circled slowly around the recumbent thousands; when two hundred miles stretched between all this and the whistle of the nearest locomotive. "And all this was over. It had begun to end a long while ago. It had ebbed away slowly from these now playing their nightly game as they had once played it at flood-tide. The turn of the tide had come even when the beards were still brown." To Wister, "the requiem of the brown and golden beards, their romance, their departed West, too good to live forever, was finished." All nine of the stories comprising this book are unusual. The vivid characters, the spontaneous wit, and the excellent description that comes of personal observation make this book good and wholesome. One feels the broadness and generous tolerance of the author and realizes "that when one lives out of doors and takes account of the sky and the clouds, and the quiet earth, one lives hard, it may he, but one lives true." Books Married Sweethearts Somehow | feel that when the average reader picks up "Married Sweethearts," by Alfred Osmond, and especially if he knows the author to be a poet, he will suspect that he is to read something mildly sentimental in praise of wedded home life; and he may be inclined to lay the book aside with the thought "A good book surely, which I shail read some day when I get more time." But let this reader open the lids of the book and he will not read it at some other time but right away—at once, scarcely laying the book down after he has begun it. Lor the entire story is gripping, and holds the reader with fascinating interest from first to last. The story is a succession of real thrills; and while it does contain many fine sentiments well expressed, it never slops over in this respect but brings in the sentiment with skill and ease just where it belongs. The book deals with bandits, robbers, murderers, outlaws, sweethearts, married and unmarried, captured and uncaptured. For the outlaws capture some of them; and the record of their adventures forms a series of pictures comparable with the best Indian stories of former days. There is a good deal of shooting, of combats, of adventures in the mountains amid snow and storms, among wolves and savage men who know chiefly one thing well—how to shoot with deadly effect and to do so upon slight provocation. Thus the book is one that makes a strong appeal to both youth and strong natures, who love action and tense scenes and situations. With all this the book is yet true to its title. While it contains the required materials of dramatic plot and the hairbreadth escapes which hold any reader's interest, it also sets forth the higher beauty of the spirit and the dominant part which the spirit takes in governing the actions of normal and abnormal men and women. It is a love story throughout with several sets of lovers, and so has the charm of romance for all those not too old to remember the glorious days of youth and for the youth who is just about to experience these delights. At the same time there is running through the tense and exciting narrative, like a golden vein in a layer of quartz, a religious philosophy of life and of the power of love to redeem men and women from even their lowest and most deeply fallen estates. That the author can make his book preach a sermon while relating the incidents of thrilling adventure is a high tribute to his genius and ability as both philosopher and story teller. The book is filled also with description of the beauty of western mountains, yet there seems to be little description in it since the scenes are a vital part of the drama itself, not being brought in for the BOOKS 207 purposes of descriptive writing. The characters, too, follow the Homeric rule of acting and speaking for themselves, so that there is not much need to label them as this or that type of human being. Each one is a true and distinctive species of the human race, and each describes himself mainly by what he says and does. The story is laid. Somewhere in Utah, at a not very distant day, in a village near the mountains; it has many characters of plain, average people. The home life of several couples is set forth with a trifle of exaggeration, as if in order to make sure that readers shall see the point. Of the heroines there are quite a number—Nell Foster, Lily Williams, Samantha Wolf and Vera King, all being conspicuous, and each taking a rather heavy part. The men are Sunny Brown, Badger Wolf, Hen Fox, Dave Holmes, Butch Cassidy, the notorious western outlaw, and several of his men. Neil Foster is knidnaped and carried to robbers' roost in the mountains, not for a ransom, but for a test of her supposed love for an old sweetheart Stanley Black, whom she had dismissed a year or so before. She is remarkable but rather less so than the obscure girl, Lily Williams, married to slovenly but good hearted Vern Wiliams, who is untidy and uncultured. Lily goes in search of her kidnaped friend, Nell. She is guided by the mail carrier for the robber, who turns out to be of first magnitude as a man of iron and of honor, and accompanied by Sunny Brown, a young man of the village not in love with anyone, who at length becomes a real hero and falls in love with an ideal woman, the picture of his own fancy. He finally meets her in these mountains with the usual result. Nell discovers that her discarded lover had no hand in her abduction but that on the contrary he has become a man of high ideals and lofty character, writing a book on the philosophy of life. The story ends right, and is a good one. Pioneers Peder Victorious—O. E. Rolvaag "O you youths, Western youths, So impatient; full of action, full of manly pride and friendship, Plain I see you, Western youths, see you tramping with the foremost— Pioneers! O Pioneers! Have the elder races halted? Do they droop and end their lesson, wearied over there beyond the seas? We take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson, Pioneers! O Pioneers!  We debouch upon a newer, mightier world, varied world, Fresh and strong the world we seize, world of labor and the march, Pioneers! O Pioneers! This is the theme of O. E. Rolvaag's new novel "Peder Victorious,' which is a sequel to his first great pioneer novel, "Giants in the Earth." It is a tale of the second generation of Norwegian pioneers on the Dakota Plains. In Mr. Rolvaag's first novel the conflict was that of man and the prairies. In this novel it is that of parents and children. Especially is it the story of the struggle between a strong, dominating, backward-looking mother and her gifted, forward-looking son. They are antagonists as to language, religion, and attitude toward life. But Peder is victorious for "fresh and strong" the world and its problems he seizes, and carries on the march of the pioneers. In a small sod hut on the Dakota prairie one Christmas Eve, a son was born to Beret and Per Hansa. In pure thankfulness and because the child was born with "the helmet," ' Per named him Peder Victorious, much to the disgust of Beret. Who felt that here on the pitiless prairies no one could be victorious, for the evil must sooner or later get us all. While Peder was very small, Per Hansa wandered off into the prairie, never to return alive. After the cruel and, to all outward appearances, senseless death of his beloved father, Peder grappled with the problem of God as an all-loving and allpowerful entity. It seemed queer to him that "He who could do all that He wanted, and wanted only that which was good, couldn't get people to do what He wanted." His mother Beret had built up within him a supernatural reality, and the only suggestion he got from her was that God acts as he does in order to try people. As Peder pondered it all, he wondered why grown people were always ready to cry. He decided that "the greatest thing on earth must be to make people happy—so full of joy that they had to laugh—that's what he wanted to do." Here he and Beret came into serious conflict, for to her all happiness was sinful. She had forgotten that it is God who causes all life to flower, and who puts both good and evil into the hearts of men. She could not understand that God is good and that he sanctions love, joy, and happiness. Beret wanted Peder to enter the ministry, but she drove him away from it with these strange ideas. Peder became a farmer instead of a minister. Beret was very sad as she watched the Americanization of Peder. As he assimilated the English language in the place of the language of his father, she lost hope. Here in America BOOKS 209 the Norwegians were gradually casting away all that they had brought with them from Norway. After all had been taken and there was nothing but the body left, what then? Was it possible for Norwegian hearts to beat in a medium so alien? Must it not eventually mean death to them as a race here in America. "But could a common sparrow take the meadow lark's song?" Was the minister right when he said that in twenty years not one word of Norwegian would be heard in America? With these thoughts, Beret fights her progressive son as he grapples with the problems of becoming an American. Thanks to his father's pioneer spirit moving within him, Peder keeps looking forward, and takes over to the full his "New World inheritance." These are the things we find of most importance in this fine new book. Here, as in "Giants in The Earth," we discover what critics have called faith in the nobility of the human spirit. Peder fights the problems of his generation with just the same fine spirit that his father fought the prairie. Mr. Rolvaag gives us a truthful picture of the differences of the old and the young in any generation. He treats the attitude of each generation with the same sympathy and respect. Of the religious attitude of the Norwegians here in America he says, "A people's soul had begun to stir. That which the mind—in some hidden cove of a Norwegian fjord, or on some lonely island far out where the mighty sea booms eternally— through centuries had conceived of religious mysticism, and there shaped so as to fit the conditions of life, now sought a natural expression on the open reaches of the prairie." Naturally, we do not find so many fine and varied pictures of the prairie as we did in "Giants in The Earth." But we feel keenly the effect of it on the characters of the book. "From eternity the prairie had lain here, lapping sun and drinking moisture, and had peered up into an endless blue sky, brimful to running over. At evening it had listened to strange tales told by the twilight breeze * * * "Human habitations lay far apart upon the open stretches—miles apart in places. One could not borrow warmth from the other here. Through the cold grayness they seemed to huddle up, to crouch low over something, as if jealously guarded.
