"T expect she's decided to let the old lady wait," she thought, letting her eyes rest on the dried branches of the still trees. She felt quite kindly towards Delia. Outwardly they had kept up appearances, true to Lathrop traditions, but the old rancor had kept them from becoming intimate in spite of their living but two blocks apart. Later, when the first glow of the gossip had worn off, and she sat in the darkening twilight with the singing kettle, waiting for Ward to return, she wondered if Esther's sudden appearance  would detract from the coming of her favorite cousin, John Lathrop. John was the son of Jedediah, the oldest member of the clan, and had gone East, to New York, and become so noted in his law profession that his name sometimes appeared in the metropolitan papers. He had come all the way across the continent with his wife, whom none of the family had seen. The cakes had baked without a flaw, and the little spinster was content in her anticipations. Elvira was one of the first to meet at the Hall. She knew that the women depended on her to help with the arrangements and the cooking. They said she was right handy at fixing the flowers—mostly potted plants—and telling the men where to put the chairs and rugs; then there was the paring of the vegetables. Making room for the turkeys, and the dishes, and she didn't have any children to bother her. As she scurried around on her sore leg, helping to place the horsehair sofas, the buttoned leather lounges, and the nondescript rocking chairs, she could not forget her cakes. Her pride in them was almost undecent. Each year she tried to make a different icing. This time the smooth, white surface had an "L" with flourishes in every direction. With that "L" there could be no mistaking her cakes! About one o'clock the families began to assemble. The older ones and a few of the youngest had been to the Thanksgiving services in the Meeting House. The Lathrops were a large and important part of the town, and they all bore the marks of their English and Scotch-Irish ancestry. In their number was Charles K., bald and rotund, and president of the one bank. He drove up in his car, the second one in the town, with instructions for his son Frank to spare no gas when errands were to be run. Then there was Ralph K., also of the older generation, who was stake president and had invited both his counselors and their families. Bishop Madsen had been invited, too, because David Lathrop, just returned from a mission and newly married to Red Water's belle, was his first aid. Lean and lanky Rod, standing six foot two in his bare feet and more typical of the clan than Charles, was there, looking as if the weight of his great sheep herds was more than he could bear. And that was Howard, by the door. Howard, was a younger one and taught school at the State University. All the town was proud of Howard. Wasn't that Ellen, the only business woman in the family, walking in with her husband? She lived in the capital city also. The wives were noisily in evidence; mostly plump they were, except the older Lathrop girls, flushed and energetic. The sunbrowned husbands of the Lathrops stood about, abashed in their Sunday clothes, for all the world as if they were not yet used to contact with the powerful clan. There was no sign of Esther and her fourth. The women glanced apprehensively at the door and There was a hush Over the laughing back-slapping Crowd at his entrance, then a Pleased little burst of welcome, and after that everyone talking at Once. With him was his New York Wife, whose accent they would never forgive, nOr cease in their tay @bout her Ylish Clothes, was tall, distingyj hed with the Straight La TOP nose and rk hair, He had a ways had part of € gracioy dignity that was SO evident no nd hj Pleasure at being }, e w t feigned She Wanted to rush Im, but er Self-consciousness held her back, ne time he ha been er only confid nt, and he W of the Plans she g d Eric had ma IC Was to live With the Cousin, and Elyj; as to Supply Patt of the lend hat for an education could Put his emotions into Words, was the Only help She had accepted, She hated to have him See her a faded Part of the background, Only made welcome because blood tles were no slight thing; She had to Speak to h Ome time €re he Was, smi] NZ in he direction. He brok through he er wd, hin wis Stay cloud; 2 whole SPreading hick 09 es, aware that est silk years behing € Styles, and 0 tables, Concocted of lumber and trestles, Tan the length of the long half, very La TOP, large or Small, was Seated in from the 5 t home fro School be re S linished, F Vira and Ward WETe seated NeXt to Delia and Prawling family and near €nough to 4 John fmlunisce yw banker he two lone embers ate hearty appetites, their Yes opened Wide as ° retain the excitement and genial] Contact nti] a quieter da €r the P came turk Y, Toast pork and beef, Chicken smo hered j flaky tan crust, sa] and veget bles with the dried og Lath MEN spent August days in Paring ip; shivering jellies, Pickles and yelloy rolls, alj shot With the lemon  glow of the sun drifting through the newly washed Relief Society curtains. For dessert there was squash pie, piled with whipped cream, plum pudding, and heavily iced cakes, with a special treat of bananas and grapes brought from Salt Lake by John. Elvira was animated with pride when she saw her two cakes, cut in small pieces, the "L" still visible, and topped with red rose buds that had come from Provo only this morning. Eric's voice, made content by the food and companionship, was heard asking if he might have cake before pie or pudding. Happily flushed, she pushed one of her platters his way. Before she could see it reach its destination, John called to her from his seat near the head. Something had reminded him of an experience at the Academy and he wanted to share it with her. _ "Do you know, Elvira," he half shouted above the buzz of Lathrop talk, "that J saw the same Fanny Davis who had a room at our place in Provo on Fifth Avenue a week ago." Flattered, Elvira chatted back, anxious to know why Fanny was in the East, but at the same time straining an ear for Eric's comment. She hoped, too, that John would hear and take pieces for him and his wife. "She and her husband," John was explaining, his long, white fingers stretched on the linen cloth, when she heard Eric addressing the group at large. "Yes sir,' he was saying, "Delia beat Elvira at her own game. She got the receipt to the potato cake, got it made, and you'd better taste it before you go on to the pie." In a daze Elvira looked at the chocolate mound disappearing on Eric's plate, then back to her platter with its festive roses and untouched pieces; and back to Eric's proud gaze and Delia's triumphant one. There could be no mistake; in front of him was a chocolate cake, on a platter not her own and dressed in brown icing. Slowly the color receded from her face and the life from her eyes. They became old and tired and she dared not lift them from her plate. Her work-hardened fingers clutched at the handkerchief in her lap—she wished the table had a leg she could lay hold to; but she wished more that she could disappear, under the board table, into the kitchen, out the side path, or any place just so she did not have to sit here and pretend to smile. The relatives were talking and laughing now, asking Delia how she managed to get the recipe. Even before Delia began her willing explanation, Elvira knew. It came to her in one clear picture how Delia had watched every move in the cake making. "Fool!" she called herself, to be caught that way. Anyone who knew anything about measurements could tell from the array, and she had been slow in mixing the batter; slow while she listened to Delia gossip! All props to her shrinking self were being torn from their ELVIRA LATHROP 201 groundings, and in a few minutes she would be standing there naked and quivering to face the ruthless Lathrops. Her face was the color of wood ashes and her chin was beginning to tremble. In an attempt to appear at ease she glanced around the table and saw Eric, all the merriment gone from his face. His hands fumbled with the bright silver, while his eyes beseeched her to understand that his part in the downfall had been unwitting. He had meant only to have a little joke. She felt sorry for him, but she could not summon assurance to her eyes. "And I," Delia went endlessly on, "didn't think of it till I vot out to the gate and started for old lady Henry's," (''Liar," Elvira wanted to scream. The cousin was not telling the whole truth; she had used the gossip as a pretext for coming when she felt certain the cake was in the making); '"'and then the idea struck me, and I rushed home. I got the thing made before Eric come home for his supper, and I defy any of you to tell it from Elviry's own. And what's more," she finished with intentioned malice, 'Sf any of you want the receipt, you can have it for the asking!" In the laugh that followed, the spinster, regardless of questioning eyes, or knowing giggles, and the Lathrop tradition of never disclosing feelings in public, slipped away from the table and out of the nearest door. There were three blocks between the Hall and her home, and she ran them without a coat in the thin, cold November light. Few persons were on the street, but these she did not see. Her aching leg was forgotten until a sharp reminder from it stopped her near the gate. Once home she slipped off her best dress, only half conscious of a new rip in the carefully darned armhole. She started a fire in the box stove of the sitting-room, and with elevated leg took up her knitting; it always soothed her, and Ward wanted his woolen socks for winter. As the needles clicked she wondered if they had ceased talking and snickering over her sudden exit. Soon it would be time for the men to go home for hurried chores. And after that the program would change attractions. There would be music, such as her starved ears seldom heard: Lizzie's oldest daughter who was studying "voice" in Salt Lake would sing; Hardy Jones, known all over the West for his violin playing, would give repeated encores, and the Lathrop male quartette would sing "Lucky Jim" and ' 'Happy Days." After that would come dancing, old-fashioned quadrilles and reels that Elvira would love to have danced. Also there would be waltzes and fox trots and two steps as a concession to the youngsters. Yet she was glad that she was away from it all, the pitying glances, the stinging wit, and the condescension of persons who would be kind, "because poor Elviry, she's not got a soul but Ward, and he's no more company than a sheep." When she could knit no longer, she turned on the light to  read, but the pages blurred and her thoughts would revert to the afternoon. Eyes on the red-checkered cloth, she rocked, thinking, thinking. Soon she might lose her place in the store, and that would mean help from the relatives, maybe Eric and Delia. "Never!" she hissed to the crackling fire. The shame of Delia's disclosure came to her in hot waves, making her clench her teeth and shudder. It was not the loss of the recipe that troubled her so much now, it was the degradation of being laughed at, made a joke before John and the clan assembled; and it was Eric to whom she had given all fidelity who had bared the loss of her pitiful secret. She was worse than Esau, for he at least had received a meal. She felt a sickish feeling in the pit of her stomach, but she sat there rocking. If Ward had only not arranged with the Hansen boy to milk the cow, she might have had something to do. But as the twilight deepened the comfort of familiar things came to her: The faded rag carpet, the walnut and marble mantle with the loud ticking clock that had been hauled across the Plains, the homely furniture made in the days of Red Water's co-operative manufacturing, and the looped curtains of Nottingham lace. Past skill with the needle was recalled. "I do believe I could pick it up again, if I have to quit my job. It would help my leg, and Charles' wife is always after me to make her a dress." Once the banker's wife came, others would find the way. Perhaps they would compensate in part for the life and gayety she would miss at the store. She'd be glad to get away from Hans anyway. Clarity and peace were returning. Even if Ward did become crippled, they cculd rent out the farm, and still have enough to feed them. When Ward came in after eleven o'clock, she was sitting quietly, knitting. He was as inarticulate as ever, but as he awkwardly took the cane-bottomed rocker on the other side of the box stove, his fumbling gestures betrayed his desire for words. Twice in the same day she felt sorry for men. "Did you have a nice time?" she asked, trying to keep the tremor out of her voice that had sprung up at Ward's sympathy. "Yes." He struggled to tell her how he had enjoyed the old friends, the hours of forgetting himself. "Some of the girls even asked me to danee a reel with them," he boasted deprecatingly. Elvira knew the sad figure he had cut, with his stiff legs, long hair and rusty blue suit, but she only said, "I'm glad," and tried to smile. Stirring in his seat, Ward looked at her hopefully, then relapsed into a tense silence. They sat there, she rocking, and only the loud ticking of the clock, the roar of the newly stirred ELVIRA LATHROP 203 fire disturbed them. Her eyes were suspiciously bright; her thin lips closed like a vise. "We ought to be getting to bed," Ward suggested, breathing heavily, but neither moved. Suddenly he sat erect in his chair. He relapsed again, but the start had been made. "It was a mean trick of Delia's about the cake," he blurted out, the words tumbling over each other in their unaccustomed speed. "There was a lot of people thought the same, though they didn't say so at the table, because they was afraid of her tongue. John's wife come right up to me and she says, "Tell your sister that was one of the most delicious cakes I have ever eaten!'" He was surer of himself now, a pride entered his speech and a faint reminder of Mrs. John's softened r's and shorter vowels. " 'John and I are going to call on her tomorrow night, after the store is closed, if she will permit us, and if she would let us have the recipe, I'd think it was the kindest 999 favor'. He wiped his brow and went on, not noticing that his sister's eyes were gleaming with the first of the held-back tears. "And during the program Eric came up, too, kinda nervous, to tell me he didn't countenance his wife's actions. He said he never in the world would have said what he did, if he'd a knowed Delia was going to say what she did. And besides," Ward was almost winded now from the effort, and there were beads of moisture on his lean face, "che said her cake wasn't near as good as yourn."' Elvira's tears halted him now, and he watched her, embarrassed at their volume. She was shaking from chin to toe, but it was good to know that Eric understood; that Delia had not dulled all his old kindliness. She was glad, too, John remembered and would come. Not many of the Lathrops would be favored with such a Visit. "Tt don't matter none," she told her helpless brother, as she gathered up her scattered knitting. She carefully wiped her eyes and nose while Ward closed the stove draughts and locked the doors. The tears were stopping now; the relaxation that comes with their outpouring was beginning to be felt. "It don't matter none," she repeated, ''besides," a light broke over her face, and the tired lines faded, "I got that pineapple conserve recipe that no one's ever tried before. I guess that'll hold Delia when I spring it at the Relief Society bazaar this coming December!" Without calling goodnight, for that would have been sentimental foolishness, they turned off the lights and went into their cold bedrooms.