Kate Montgomery Barker By Mary C. Kimball
Having refined, understanding, Kate Montgomery Barker comes to the important position of Second Counselor to President Louise Y. Robison well fitted for her responsibility. To associate with her is an inspiration, to know her is to love her. She was born in North Ogden and had the privilege of being one of seven children. Three sisters and a brother are living today. She shows many of the excellent characteristics of both parents. Her father, a true nobleman, was a successful farmer and was noted for his alertness of mind and his analytical powers. He was four times a member of the Territorial Legislature and was a fine public speaker. It is said, "He never spoke for more than fifteen minutes, but he said much in that time." Her mother, while quiet, was a very strong character. She was true to every trust. Nothing was too hard if she felt it was right.
JAMES L. BARKER attended the same grade school as Kate Montgomery. They both attained the highest records in the school for scholarship. He admired the vivacious, winsome girl, and this boy and girl friendship later ripened into love. In her four years at high school Kate's average scholarship was "A." She was especially good in mathematics. Her husband tells that one time they both entered an essay contest, but he laughingly says, "She won and received as a prize one of the first collections of books that came to North Ogden as a nucleus for a library." As a young girl, Kate took delight in dramatics. Indeed her girlhood dream was to be an actress. Even when young, she was noted for her ability to read well. After graduation from the Ogden High School, she taught for four years and was married on her birthday, May 30, 1906, to James L. Barker. Two days later they left for Europe and made their first home in Geneva, Switzerland, where they resided for one and a half years. They came home in 1910 but later returned to Europe where they spent three and a half years. They traveled all over Western Europe and on two of their last trips traveled 40,000 miles by auto. These two who are so ideally mated have a common hobby travel. Again and again have they visited Western Europe. While in Europe Mrs. Barker attended the University of Neuchatel, Switzerland, and the University of Paris and many lectures elsewhere. 268 The marriage of Kate Montgomery and James L. Barker has proven a most happy one. He is as fine a man as she is a woman. They enjoy doing things together. He has proven a well-nigh perfect husband and father. He is such a companion to his son that the boy often says, "Isn't it fine that Dad and I enjoy the same things." Professor Barker is head of the Modern Language Department of the University of Utah and a member of the General Board of the Sunday School. To this couple so happy in their companionship have been born three children. All stand out for intellectual attainments. Nancy is teaching German, French and Spanish in the Weber College. She has her Bachelor's and Master's Degree. Margaret, now Mrs. Mitchell, is taking her Master's Degree this year at the University of Utah. Their son, James Montgomery, is in Junior High. Mrs. Barker loves her home. She is a devoted wife and mother and is most solicitous of their welfare. Her husband says she has to know where everyone is every minute of the day and when they will get home. It is the custom of the family that if either husband or children return and find her not there, before they go away again, they leave a note on the mantel telling where they have gone and when they will return. The Barker family life is most beautiful. They all enjoy intellectual pursuits and travel. They can all be ready on a moment's notice to go anywhere, and they enjoy going together. They cooperate in each other's work. Sister Barker laughingly says her husband tries everything out on her. If she's not too dumb to understand, he thinks he can try it on others. He says, "If there is any loop-hole in my work, Kate always finds it." The Barkers stand out for their generosity and their unselfish devotion to their friends. Nothing is too much trouble for them if it will bring pleasure or comfort to those they love. When sorrow comes, they are among the first to give comfort and assistance. When they were in Paris, Helen was an American student there. Her sister died. The Barkers were not intimate acquaintances of the family, but Sister Barker took Helen into her home and helped her through this time of sorrow. Helen's mother says, "I shall never live long enough to express my gratitude for what this woman, a stranger, did for my daughter." Sister Barker was President of the Primary of the 33rd Ward of Liberty Stake for one year and served on the Relief Society Board of that stake for two years as a class leader, and has been an efficient member of the General Board since April, 1929. She takes an active part in University activities and is a member of the Author's Club. Mrs. Barker learns readily and has a wonderful memory. Every bit of verse she has ever learned she remembers. She reads extensively, her preference being for biography, autobiography and works on social questions. She also enjoys some fiction. She has no sympathy for the dry scholarship that never gets anywhere. Mrs. Barker has a hatred of sham. Her associates recognize her ability to think clearly and logically. She is generous and appreciative of the best. She has the judicial point of view, always seeing both sides of a question. She never judges harshly and has a great sympathy for all classes and all conditions. She sees the problems that beset them and hence understands them. She has an appealing quality that draws all people to her.
TWO POEMS