DEPARTMENT MEETINGS
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
The Social Welfare Department met in the Assembly Hall, April 3, 1935, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, chairman. Invocation by Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells discussed "Trends in National Legislation" speaking particularly of rural rehabilitation and social security. State Senator, Mrs. Burton W. Musser, said in her talk on "Social Legislation" that "undoubtedly the most decided step forward in the Public Welfare field was the passing of Senate Bill 233, creating a State Welfare Board, the culmination of many years' efforts on the part of the prominent welfare workers in the State, in the front rank of whom we always found your gracious chairman, Mrs. Lyman. The bill does not embody all we hoped for, but it offers a real opportunity for advancement in the field of Social Welfare." There were a great many bills passed to meet new Federal legislation. One important measure was to take the office of Superintendent of Public Instruction out of politics. Mrs. Musser felt that the 1935 Legislature had done earnest, conscientious work. Dean Milton Bennion, of the University of Utah, spoke on "Crime
280
Prevention," and stressed the importance of the home and community in any program for the welfare of youth. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman said that the demand for Social Service Institutes was greater now than when the Relief Society provided subsistence. She asked a number of Stakes to report on educational work done in Union Meetings as a result of these Institutes. Mrs. Amy W. Evans urged that
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Relief Society workers remember that while we live by bread we do not live by bread alone. There are many things for our welfare workers to do in maintaining morale and contributing to the spiritual life of the economically distressed. There are widows with dependent children and many people who are on the margin of dependency and yet who are not eligible for Federal relief, these people need our financial help in their efforts to maintain a normal home life for their children.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL LEGISLATION By Marcia K. Howells
President Roosevelt made this impressive statement, "The security of the men, women and children, must come first." One of the favored measures to bring about this security is Rural Rehabilitation. Today many are living on farms where the soil is poor and the water inadequate. The government calls farms so situated sub-marginal lands, and proffers to move families from them, onto productive land. This poor land is to be purchased by the Government and go back to the forest reserve or the public domain. The Government has recently moved two hundred families from the relief rolls, to Alaska each on forty acres of good land, with a home and farm implements provided. In Colorado one hundred families are asking the Government for just such help, their land gone, covered with sand—dwellings deluged with dust and their cattle starving. These people have been promised help under this Rural Rehabilitation measure. But this is not an individual matter. A large majority of the farmers in any given area, will have to favor the plan, before it can be carried out. Rural Rehabilitation contemplates not only the movement away from poor land, but furnishes the service of a trained and competent agent to help solve the problems in the new location. But it isn't always a case of moving. Sometimes a farmer may need just a little temporary help to overcome his difficulties. To be successful, this must be a long time program, for human beings cannot be moved about as chessmen. Their social position, attitudes, likes and dislikes, their qualifications and chances for success, should be carefully weighed. There must follow considerable guidance for several years, if success is to be assured. The big movement in 1928 and 1929 was away from the farm, and had this continued, the farms would have been almost depopulated. With the coming of the depression, it was observed that people were moving back to the farms. But many of them were poorly advised, and they settled where good farmers had previously failed. With the closing of school, many fine young people, well prepared and ambitious, will be looking for employment. There is always work on,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
the farm—the farm would take many of these young people from pool-halls, the movies and the city streets, and would surround them with better and healthier conditions, while giving them employment. We are happy to learn that the work for women is receiving increased attention. There is greater opportunity for them to engage in useful and productive work than ever before. Numerous community projects have been launched—such as making mattresses, extending library service, health and recreational work, educational work for the blind and other useful activities. But these services cannot be extended unless requested. Also they must be for the benefit of the community, rather
281
than individual groups—such as a Club or Church group. We can prevent suffering, without destroying souls. We can take the "Sour note out of sweet charity." The feeling of insecurity must be banished from the earth and the teachings of Jesus must find their proper place in the present scheme of things. In all this great work, our Relief Society organization will continue to lead out and help solve these human problems. The effectiveness of the Government measures depends largely on our general understanding of what is being attempted, and how it may be worked out. May God bless our Government and you, my dear sisters.
WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Jennie B. Knight, Chairman
The Work and Business Department, with Jennie B. Knight as chairman, held its meeting for Stake Officers, Board Members and Mission Presidents in the Auditorium, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. An eager group of Stake representatives assembled to receive instructions in the practical fields of their work. Following an appropriate address by the chairman, "Conducting Business on the Work and Business Day" was discussed by Nettie D. Bradford. "Value of Handwork—Mental and Spiritual" was ably presented by Dr. Arthur L. Beeley, and the women of Relief Society will have this enlarged in the book which will be off the press very shortly. A preview of the book "Handicraft for Every Woman" was given by Glenn J. Beeley, the author. "How Our Work was Carried out Last Year," by Janet M. Thompson, former President of the Ensign Stake Relief Society, was a fine statement of work accomplished from suggestions obtained at last year's Institute. "Educating the Consumer," by Lalene H. Hart, was a very clear, fine address, and was made very interesting by a demonstration of selling methods.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT
The department work of the Choristers and Organists was held in Barratt Hall with a large and enthusiastic group participating. Dr. D. W. Henderson gave a very interesting and instructive talk on "The Throat and Voice Production." He stressed proper breathing, proper position, enunciation and the care of the throat in general. Professor Tracy Y. Cannon emphasized the value of the different marks of expression in music interpretation. He explained their meaning and illustrated their application by having the group sing hymns.
282
The hymns and anthems outlined for the coming year 1935-1936 were discussed by Charlotte O. Sackett. A quartette of Relief Society Singing Mothers sang these new songs to illustrate phrasing, pronunciation, shading, rhythm, etc. It is expected that the hymn "As the Dew, from Heaven Distilling," will be learned so that it can be sung as a congregational hymn in October Conference. "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" is another beautiful hymn to be studied. The suggested anthems are: "The Lord's Prayer—Josephine Forsyth; "O Rest in the Lord" (unison)—Handel; "Lamb of God"—Bizet; "I Waited for the Lord"—Handel. It is suggested that the Choristers select from this number the songs which they can teach to their groups and get good results. These anthems may be obtained from any good music store in local communities.