Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
May! Smiles in her flowered beauty.
Susan B. Anthony and Lucretia Mott are two of the noted Americans for whom statues will be placed in New York's Hall of Fame this year.
Evelyn Graham Frost, aviatrix-poet, is to have a statue erected in her memory and placed in the Cathedral of Nevers, France.
Mrs. Julia Wagner Juaregg after four expeditions into the Sahara desert and hitherto unknown parts of Africa has returned with a valuable collection for the Vienna Museum.
Carrie Chapman Catt attended in April the International Alliance of Women for equal rights at Stamboul, Turkey.
Miss Sue Thorn, anthropologist of California, has gone to the far north. She plans to make a thorough study of the Eskimos, their language, habits, customs, and folklore. She will have native guides but will be the sole scientist in the party.
Queen Helena, of Italy, is deeply interested in lethargic illness. She has recently sponsored clinics in Bologna, Rome and Pisa exclusively for the care of cases of sleeping sickness.
Malvina Hoffman has completed the amazing task of presenting in sculpture all the types of man existing in the world. This stupendous work was a commission for the field museum at Chicago.
Miss Antonia Brico, of New York, conducts the only known women's symphony orchestra. It is composed of 86 skilled musicians.
King George and Queen Mary held their first court late in March this year when ten very beautiful, very young, and very rich American girls were presented.
Ingrid, beautiful Swedish princess, is betrothed to Prince Frederic of Denmark. It is said this marriage eliminates the last eligible bride for Wales.
Miss Susie Murphy was elected mayor of New Albany, Kan., in April. Every city office is held by women.
Anna Louise Strong, editor of the Moscow Daily News, the only English newspaper printed in Russia, has recently written a novel entitled "I Change Worlds."
Ruth Bryan Owen, lady minister, has written a charming little book descriptive of her semiofficial trip to Greenland.
Ilo Linke, has written a straightforward story of her own experiences during and after the World War. She was a leader among the Youth Movement in Germany, now exiled.
Mrs. H. M. Hamilton, pen name Dorothy McCleary, won a $1,000 prize for her first novel, "Not For Heaven." She was an indigent mother and said her first purchase would be a pair of shoes for her 8 year old boy.
Mrs. Ella J. Coulam, a writer of verse for the Relief Society Magazine, has been asked to permit her poem Happiness to be included in an anthology for 1935, published by the Pae-Bar Co.
Louise Redfield Peattie has published a new novel, "Fugitive," to which the critics give high praise.