Mothers' Day Part OF AN ADDRESS DELIVERED ON May 13th, 1934 By President Joseph Quinney KNOW of nothing in life that reflects the noblest and highest in virtue so well as a true and devoted mother. "With tender recollections of a mother's love and the memory of a precious home, I come to offer the tribute of a grateful heart. If I could gather the most beautiful adjectives from the languages of the world, and with the skill of an orator fashion them into beautiful garlands of rhetoric, I should fail in my greatest effort to do justice to her grandeur and glory."—-Homer J. Wilson. Ox From the hearth-stone around which linger the recollections of our mother: from the fireside where our wife awaits us, come all the purity, all the hope, and all the courage with which we fight the battles of life. The man who is not thus inspired, but who labors more to secure the applause of the world than the solid and more precious approval of his home accomplishes little of good for others, or of honor for himself. We come into being through the abiding and deep love of mother, she faces maternity with a feeling of the highest faith, with a tenderness that is so strongly developed that its touch mellows and softens the most uncouth, "It is a tenderness that reaches out and up for God's great love and truth. A tenderness that is divine and beautiful." No language ever used or spoken can impress us with the deep obligation we owe to our mothers, we must feel it in our very souls. Perhaps the greatest story ever spoken, the finest story ever written, is contained in the Book of Ruth. We are impressed beyond our power to fully appreciate the true and genuine affection between Ruth and Naomi. "Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go: and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: Where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me." Here is a daughter's love intensified, ' mother's love dignified and gloried. Upon this quality of virtue, the very foundation of our moral, social, religious and civic structure rests: without it, we fall into decay; we disintegrate and are finally lost. The home relationship should be deep, sincere and confidential. The love of the home must be holy so that our very civilization can be secure. The' need of strong men and women is now. The need of strong and powerful leadership is upon us, and will continue to be upon us and our children after us. Strong characters must be built within the lives of our offspring so that they can carry on after we are laid to rest. Bancroft tells us: "The material world does not change in its masses or in its powers. The stars shine with no more luster than when they first sang together in the glory of their birth. The flowers that gemmed the fields and the forests before America. Was discovered, now bloom around us in their season. The sun that shone on Homer shines on us in unchanging luster: the bow that beamed on the patriarch still glitters in the clouds. Nature is the same. 4 For her, no new forces are generated, no new capacities are discovered. The earth turns on its axis and. Perfects its revolutions, and renews its seasons without increase or advancement." But, men operated on by the light and power of God's holy spirit, made possible through virtuous living, have been able to control some of the forces of nature and as a result, have brought into being some of the marvelous things we see and feel about us. The impossible of yesterday, becomes the possible of today. In the great laboratories of the world, human thought is at work making great discoveries. Human bodies are being dissected. Relative values of the anatomy are being understood. Through the use of radium it is now possible to detect any foreign substance within the body and in thousands of cases, find the causes of ailments so that human life is being extended, not by weeks or months, but by years. We must, of necessity, connect up in one eternal chain these marvelous discoveries to a religious and spiritual life. Our religious life must deal religiously with sacred things. We must associate this day and all that belongs to it with the Redeemer, Jesus Christ. He is the highest and best we know. Our religious life should rest upon this great principle of virtue in carrying out the purposes upon which our great government rests. "When men and women are moved by religious impulse, it is the greatest and strongest force in human life.