Anything built upon the principle of truth must stand. All things gravitate to truth. It must be so. So, if we are seeking truth, we cultivate virtue, sweetness, calmness, trust, generosity, justice, loyalty and nobility—make them vitally active in our characters and by these qualities we are constantly affecting the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE world." The moral obligation resting on us is to look up and not down, to contribute to our fellowmen the best within us. The joy that we experience here is an eternal joy, notwithstanding the fact that it may be mingled with sorrow: I am sure that the hopes we have within us of the spiritual life ahead, and the faith that God's children have been taught to feel, is a joy. Indeed, "Man is that he might have joy." It may flow to us from unseen sources; it may arise out of the proceedings of this day. Indeed, there is a joy in the hope that we will be associated with those who have gone on before, we trust, in the quest of everlasting truth. That we will find our place there, there is no question. That we will ever be on the search for knowledge, there can be no doubt. The road of eternal progression is before us. It sometimes happens that many offer their appreciation only when they are deprived of the companionship of either, or both father and mother. They come to their defense when they are absent from them more than they do when they are with them. As a matter of justice and right, we should sing to them our praises while they are yet alive and full of vitality, health and strength, and not wait until their eyes are closed in death. There are vast sums of money spent to-buy beautiful caskets in which to place mothers and then the caskets are bedecked with garlands of the choicest flowers to have people know that their children are mindful of their virtues. They should receive the flowers while yet alive. They should have love, words of gratitude, full and complete appreciation while, with their virtues, they grace the home. Many men and women receive the plaudits of the world for MOTHER'S DAY their achievements and _ victories while the patient and loving mother remains in the background. She in all probability, was largely responsible for the glory her offspring was receiving from an unknowing world. How many remember her in the hour of triumph and glory? Using, with a slight change, the language of John Henry Graves in his great address in which he eulogizes the life of John Temple Graves —'"If I should seek to touch the inward source of all of a mother's greatness, I would lay my hand upon her heart. Of my own mother I would say, love bears her messages to all who come within the range of her acquaintance, and the honest throb of human sympathies keep her responsive to all things great and 313 true." I could say the same thing about every true and devoted mother. "We are living in a day of grandeur and eloquence, in a day of splendor and glory, surrounded with untold blessings, all of which, we should appreciate. But the grandest thing next to the radiance that flows from the Almighty's throne, is the light of a noble and beautiful life, wrapping itself in tender benediction round the destinies of men, and finding its home in the bosom of the everlasting God." What an eulogy, what a benediction! The summation of a true mother's virtue is, after all, the foundation of our moral, religious and spiritual life. She is not only virtuous, but VIRTUE. Let us have her name ring loud and stir the hearts of men everywhere as the mighty name of mother deserves. Mothers' Day By May D. I did not know last Mothers' Day Such joy sublime. How could I when for eight long years Our home, our hearts, despite our prayers, were barren Of the gift divine? I had not felt last Mothers' Day Such joy intense. Longing and envy filled my soul, That all but I had rightly won the tributes paid In recompense. Martineau The flowers they gave last Mothers' Day In sympathy To me were given, or so it seemed To one whose heart was sorely tried and could not keep In harmony. But Ah! The joy this Mothers' Day, My cup runs over. No more I weep; I am at peace, For tenderly within my arms I hold so close My foster daughter. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN:: KATE M. BARKER: MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND: Ethel Reynolds Smith 3 o President First Counselor:: Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Janet M. Thompson Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Belle S. Spafford Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Ida P. Real Mrs. Donna Durrant Sorenson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y., Robison Assistant Managed! Amy Brown Lyman