GENERAL SESSION Thursday Morning
PRESENT CHALLENGE TO WOMEN General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
The Relief Society Building for Better Living." This aim, expressed as the central theme of the Conference, is but a re-statement of the objective of the organization, now nearly a century old. Literally speaking, humanity is today at the crossroads, and the choice of paths is the most important the world has ever had to make. Those best informed tell us that civilization itself rests upon the decision. From the beginning woman has personified the world's ideals. The finest conceptions of the human mind have always been expressed in feminine form. The Fates, who controlled the life and destiny of man were women; the Graces, from whom came all that is lovely in character, were women; the Muses, from whom came all music, poetry and art, were women. All the noblest aspirations of the human mind were preserved in womanly form—Temperance, Justice, Liberty, Peace, even Wisdom. The earth, through all time and in all languages has been the universal mother. Woman has glorified and sanctified the whole world through the Holy Motherhood of Mary. In the present crisis, when the financial and industrial world is uprooted, women are concerned quite as vitally as are men, and cannot under-estimate the results of these gigantic problems. But what is of vastly more importance to women than anything of a purely economic nature is the result of certain destructive forces at work in the world today. Here are presented real dangers, which threaten to destroy everything that has made human life sacred and beautiful—the disintegration of the family, the disregard of the marriage covenant, and religion thrown into the discard. Is it not in these fields that woman's influence is pre-eminent? If these most holy institutions are threatened, is it not a hostile invasion of woman's own realm? Can there be a more definite objective for building for better living than to prepare to resist such sinister powers? Relief Society women are not skeptics, but believers, nevertheless we must face things as they are, and
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
organize to defend our ideals. Far more important than natural resources or national wealth is the question of how family life is lived. With the added opportunities there can be no lowering of standards; the home is woman's own place, and marriage the most sacred human relationship. Religion is the spirit
283
which giveth light. Our homes and our Church embody for us the finest traditions of the past, and all that we are, and aim to be. That we preserve them in their purity and strength; that we consecrate our lives to their service—this is our challenge.
WORDS Jennie B. Knight
Words are symbols of thoughts. How man acquired expression of thoughts by the use of words is still an unsolved problem. Some have thought that he was created a talking animal, others claim that man's parents were instructed in the use of words by God himself. Others argue that he was born with power within himself by which he developed the use of words. However this may be, the achievement of the use of words by man proclaimed him victor and master over all created things. It is through the medium of words that all the emotions of the human heart and all the concepts of the human brain are conveyed from mind to mind. They are powerful weapons for good or evil, and their influence is as far-reaching as heaven itself. The ability to use words properly and appropriately is a wonderful accomplishment attained only by effort on the part of those who have such power. Relief Society work is so extensive that it requires a great variety of words to give satisfactory expression to all its problems. Therefore the progressive woman must be constantly adding to her vocabulary by study of such lessons as are given in the various courses of the Relief Society program if she would be more efficient. Those who are privileged to be officers, class leaders and visiting teachers have a grave responsibility in their choice of words. They must realize that from the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh and that angry caustic words of criticism should be bridled. Words of truth directed by well prepared teachers will banish ignorance and give knowledge. The words from the lips of those who have faith in God and his son Jesus Christ, coupled with the testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith when spoken will do much to substitute confidence and faith for skepticism and doubt. Every woman should have words of warning, tempered with tolerance for the wayward, and words of righteous indignation to be used against all forms of injustice and oppression. No vocabulary can have too many words of loyalty for one's country or state, for one's church or for one's leaders, nor be over supplied with words of sincere appreciation and praise for family, friends, associates and co-workers. Words of flattery end in failures. Relief Society women should specialize in kind, gentle, beautiful words, they are to our language what fragrance is to the flowers, essentially joy giving. If we do our work well, we know that there are lonely hearts that need
284
kind words to be spoken by us to take this loneliness away. There are turbulent hearts seeking peace; and ambitious hearts awaiting our approval. There are children's hearts and aged hearts pining for our words of love. There are breaking hearts that need the benediction of your sympathy and understanding. There are discouraged, weary hearts longing for your word of courage.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Would you find the magic word for all of these? Then search the Word of God and listen to those spoken by his authority here on earth, and build a better life by obedience to their teachings and you will like Aladdin, have found the magic word, "the Open Sesame" to every heart and joy unmeasured for your own.
COOPERATION IN THE HOME Emma A. Empey—Member of General Board
One of the chief objects of the Relief Society is to work for family solidarity and the permanency of the home. One method of attaining this is a better understanding and more cooperation in the home itself. There are many phases to this subject and many forms of helpful and necessary cooperation, but in my brief remarks I shall mention only one—financial cooperation. Many of the breaks and failures in family life are the result of lack of understanding in financial matters. The husband and wife should be partners in financial affairs. The wife should know what the income is, and together they should plan for the spending of it. Where a man withholds this knowledge from his wife, how can he expect her to be as interested as she otherwise would be? In such instances through lack of knowledge she may spend unwisely, and financial disaster may follow. Any woman endowed with good common sense should be willing to live within the family income, but how can she do this if she does not know what it is? When financial reverses come, a man frequently, in his desire to shield his wife from worry, fails to acquaint her with the situation; and she goes on living on the same plane when she could, if she knew conditions, make curtailments on every hand. Every family should have a budget, and where there is a definite income there should be family allowances. A disposition to economize and save on the part of the individual members of the family generally follows the allowance system. The family budget jointly agreed upon insures a square deal for everybody concerned and is conducive to unselfishness. Where family finances and the budget are discussed by the family group and the members all have a part in the discussion and decisions, there is general satisfaction. In the average farm home, while there is not a regular monthly cash income there are still ways in which husband and wife may cooperate in financial matters. When children grow up and earn money of their own, they should be taught that as long as they are a part of the household they should help to maintain it. Even a very small amount from the earnings of the child contributed by him towards the upkeep of the home helps with expenses, and in addition will develop his responsibility and give him a feeling of importance because he is doing his part. A business understanding with the child when he first begins to earn will save arguments
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and misunderstandings later. A boy or girl should not be encouraged in thinking that because he is earning money it is his to spend, often recklessly, regardless of the needs of other members of the family. I am not unmindful of the fact that many young people are striving desperately to earn an education that will later fit them for the career their hearts are set upon, and this is a worthy ambition which should receive encouragement at home; but at the same time the boy or girl who unselfishly does his part in family responsibility is not likely to be found among those who later in life are
285
willing to shift their family obligations to other people. Relief Society women in their association with one another have an excellent opportunity to discuss these matters and to work for family cooperation and understanding. I want to take this opportunity of again expressing my grateful appreciation for the privilege that has been mine these many years of association with the women of the Relief Society. I know of no finer women, and I know that participation in the activities of the Relief Society will make of us better home makers, better citizens, better women.
THE POWER OF TESTIMONY Annie Wells Cannon—Member of General Board
To have faith is to believe, to have testimony is to know. Among the many beautiful things the Gospel teaches, none is more precious than that God lives and He will give us strength. To have this testimony is to be rich indeed. I wonder sometimes if we mothers in Israel, we women of the Relief Society, cherish this blessing as we should. I wonder if in our pursuit for cultural things we neglect to seek after and retain the spiritual blessings that are ours for the asking, the blessings that comfort in times of sorrow, that uplift and strengthen in times of despair. It was neither wealth nor learning that sustained Job in his afflictions, but his testimony, for he said: "I know that my Redeemer lives and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." When his friends begged Job to curse God and forsake him, he answered "Should I put my cause before the Lord with arguments, He would not plead with me but He would give me strength." Paul of Tarsus, a learned Jew, journeyed towards Damascus to help in the persecutions of the followers of Christ. As he neared the city he fell to the earth enveloped in a great light, and he heard a voice saying: "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" In that hour Saul knew the Lord. The power of this testimony changed Paul's course of life. It meant poverty, persecution and hatred of men, but it gave him strength for his mission to preach that Christ was the Son of God, to the Gentiles and in the synagogues, even to stand on Mars Hill at Athens and teach the stoics, philosophers and poets. When they scoffed saying "What can this babbling Jew teach us of philosophy?" he answered, "Ye men of Athens when I passed by your devotions I found an altar with this inscription, To The Unknown God, whom ye ignorantly worship, Him I declare unto you." In this latter day the Lord revealed Himself to Joseph Smith, and through Joseph restored the pattern of the Church as it existed when Jesus was on the earth. Thus ful-
286
filling Job's prophecy "That he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth." This testimony was to be taken to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and for this the Church sends forth missionaries to testify of the Gospel restored. Marvelous are the results of their labors and wonderful are the manifestations of the strength given them by the goodness of the Lord. Men whose names are immortal in "Mormon" history, who introduced the Gospel in foreign lands were blessed with power to make themselves understood even when they had no knowledge of the language of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
people they taught. This was the case with Erastus Snow in Scandinavia, Franklin D. Richards in Germany, Lorenzo Snow in Italy, George Q. Cannon in Hawaii. So buoyed up were they that they seemed to walk with angels. So we might go on and enumerate for hours and tell some of the glorious stories in connection with this work, but there is a time and place provided for this exchange of spiritual thought and it may and ought to be the most precious and profitable thing in our work, for testimony is knowledge and knowledge is power.
SERVICE Lalene H. Hart—Member of General Board
Man is that he might have joy. Who has contributed most to the joy and happiness of man? What is of greatest worth in the world today? These questions put to a group of college students, if asked of you would you answer as did they—the best fighter, the shrewdest business man, the greatest thinker, and wise leadership? The correctness of these answers depend upon the meaning they wish to convey. Rightly interpreted they are not unworthy of consideration but are imperfect. They alone do not reach that which is fundamental. When Jesus was asked who was greatest, he answered, "Ye know that among the Gentiles the great ones exercise lordship and dominion. It shall not be so among you. If any man would be great among you let him serve. The greatest of all is servant of all." And He was just that. His greatness lay in the simple life he led and the service he rendered mankind. We read that he went about doing good—rebuked the selfish, forgave the sinner, cleansed the leper, calmed the tempest. He took the broken lights of human greatness and set them in their true perspective. He suffered and sacrificed Himself freely for others. With His spiritual weapons of persuasion, instruction, right example, He fought not to destroy human lives but to give life and give it more abundantly. He was shrewd in gaining riches of everlasting value. He became poor that others might be rich. He was a thinker and spoke as no other. "I am the Truth." "I am the Way." In wisdom he led his disciples to that higher and broader plane of social justice and better living. He translated the language of service into terms of life and became the Eternal Servant of that larger good which waits upon the spirit of unselfish devotion. The life of any individual is measured by its power to serve the more permanent interests of society. The one that is endowed with the most spiritual, physical or material wealth can offer much but the one who offers all for humanity serves best. Men and women of all times who have lived in the spirit of the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
book which says, "Whosoever saveth his life shall lose it, but whosoever loseth his life for my sake shall find it," have laid their talents on the altar of service for the Church, Community and Nation. Jesus by his parable of the great supper sought to show the folly of those, who refuse the call to something higher than mere duty. Apply this parable to the Relief Society to which thousands have been invited to partake of the many good things provided. Like the men in the story will she allow things legitimate and praiseworthy to crowd out those of higher value? When they refused the invitation the opportunity passed. The host sent for the poor because they would not be so occupied with their lands and home comforts. The door of opportunity opens but it does not stand ajar always. When a woman accepts the invitation of this big organization to be
287
a member or an officer can she afford to allow anything to stand in the way of her supreme loyalty? Under the guidance of our Heavenly Father the real purpose and meaning of a new life for women has been unfolded. What a glorious opportunity and blessed privilege for the woman who will put aside personal desires and will consistently and conscientiously fight against the insidious things of life, accumulate riches that will not perish with time, express thoughts that stimulate the nobler desires in others, and lead with an understanding heart those who need sympathy, love and encouragement, remembering always that "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are in the service of God." That service which is of greatest worth and contributes most to the joy and happiness of man.
DO WE COOPERATE? Lotta Paul Baxter—Member General Board
What an achievement it is for people to learn and enjoy cooperation. To do this successfully one learns to know that however good her ideas are, it is sometimes far better to concede a point than to hold out for supremacy. One person's opinion is as good as anothers and only when a recognized principle of right is at stake should one stand absolutely unmoved. It is a helpful thing to often ask ourselves when working in Church or other public activity, "Do we cooperate?" In the ward organizations we would like to feel that the sewing committees stand solidly together in regard to the prices for quilting. On page 190 of the Relief Society handbook we give the minimum price for tied, common and best quilts. No organization should reduce that price unless the work is an outright gift to someone. There is, however, no limitation on the price of quilts requiring a great deal of time and skill, and Relief Society quilters should charge sufficient to repay them for labor and time. We sometimes hear of Relief Society women going to a neighboring ward or stake to get quilting done fifty cents cheaper than her own ward will do it for. We haven't language to express our regret and disappointment at such an act of disloyalty and hope this practice will not continue. It is so far below Relief Society standards. Do we cooperate with the stakes? Sometimes a ward is officered by women with very strong likes and dislikes, who do not work wholeheartedly with the stake officers and
288
are sometimes in direct opposition to the stake plan. This is a most undesirable situation and is a drawback to both ward and stake and a reorganization should be effected without delay. We cannot build better lives without harmony. At the time Theodore Roosevelt was President of the United States, I became interested in listening to and jotting down what people had to say about the chief executive in our loved land. In glancing them over there is not a great deal to point to with pride. In over a quarter of a century I am sure we have had some good men and good statesmen in the White House, whether we believed in their policy or not. It is our privilege to express whatever we wish and I think no one wishes to take that privilege away, but when in a period of many years we can say nothing good of those in authority we are missing an opportunity for building better lives. Let us with the poet, "Be earnest in the search for good and speak of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
all the best we can." In closing I wish to call your attention to a few of the many results of cooperation in our society than which there is none greater for opportunity: 1. An average attendance of over 32,000 heard and took part in the same lessons on the same day. 2. Relief Society Magazine subscriptions grew to over 32,000. 3. Special visits to homebound over 220,000. 4. Visits of Relief Society teachers to homes 836,000. 5. Organization of singing mothers and choruses in almost every ward. 6. The exhibit of the four Ogden Stakes three years ago, the Churchwide exhibit of two years ago, the Ensign exhibit now on South Temple, the crafts demonstration on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, and many more too numerous to mention. Let us cooperate and build better lives.
THE INTERPRETATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN TERMS OF LIFE Cora L. Bennion—Member of General Board
In the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5:17-22, Jesus said: "I came not to destroy the law or the prophets, but to fulfil." Why should Jesus accept Jewish law and then say: "It is said by them of old time, but I say unto you." Because Jesus wanted to make moral life a thing of the heart and motive as well as outward conduct. He thought of the individual to whom the law applies and how the individual's life could be perfected. In John 8:1-11, we read where the Scribes and Pharisees brought unto Jesus a woman taken in adultery and said: "According to the law of Moses such should be stoned, but what sayest thou?" Jesus said unto them: "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one. Jesus said: "Where are those, thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" She said: "No man, Lord." Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more." Jesus did not approve of adultery, in fact he made the law binding on our very thoughts, but he thought of the woman, he interpreted the situation in terms of better living.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
He did not approve of sin of any degree but rather condemned even the appearance of wrong doing, yet everywhere he shows the greatest love and concern for the sinner. Jesus showed this same interest in building life in its varied forms. He dined with the sinners, He blessed little children and prayed to his Father in their behalf. He healed the sick, the blind, the deaf and the halt. His aim was to teach people how to live. He desired that they might have life more abundantly. Relief Society is dedicated to the betterment of human life. What are we doing? Our zeal for making one hundred percent visits, attendance records, etc., is admirable, we can approve, even as Jesus accepted the law. But do we sometimes lose track of the object of our visits and our activities? Do we keep in mind the ultimate good of the individual? As teachers and class leaders do we present the lessons with the thought in mind, how will it help the members to improve their lives and the lives
289
of those with whom they come in contact? Will it help them to be more kind and more thoughtful of others? Will it help them to obtain high ideals and high aspirations? Relief Society should be directed toward preserving and creating a spirit of reverence for human life. We are helping to fulfil the law when we love our neighbors and help to better their lives. In the story of the Good Samaritan Jesus wishes to teach us about the good neighbor. It is a beautiful story, rich in suggestion, touching in its sympathy, yet keen in its application. The first great principle or law of spiritual growth comes largely through practice in the real life situation and is found in the words: "It's more blessed to give than to receive." "There is a destiny that makes us brothers, None goes his way alone, All that we send into the lives of others, Comes back into our own."
HEALTH: PHYSICAL AND MENTAL Amy W. Evans—Member of General Board
In any plan to build for better living, health both physical and mental is a fundamental factor, as upon health depends so largely the power to contribute to the abundant life. Good health has always been a standard of our Church. We have the Word of Wisdom and the promises attached to its keeping which are both physical and spiritual. The Relief Society has had for years as a part of its program the conservation and promotion of health, through its hospitals, training of nurses, baby clinics, health centers, wheat interest fund for health purposes and courses of study both in physical and mental health. Now when we are all talking about economic and social security I wonder if we realize the part in it that health plays? The money loss caused by sickness of the average American families whose incomes are $2500 or less a year is $2,400,000,000 per annum, and in normal times from one-third to one-half of all dependency can be traced to the effects of illness, not accounting for the human loss and suffering. These figures show, however, the place that health security takes in any plan for economic security, and there is a medical advisory board to the National Committee on Economic security. Health security has become a national policy. How this is to be obtained is a 290 much discussed question. It is a question I am sure in which Relief Society women are vitally interested and on which they are informing themselves. In this day we cannot consider physical health as separate from mental health and undoubtedly mental illness is as heavy a burden upon humanity as physical illness. As we maintain bodily health to a great extent by obeying the laws of right living and hygiene, so mental health is dependent largely upon the observance of the laws of mental hygiene, the problems of which are those innumerable minor mental maladjustments which hamper all of us in the conduct of our daily lives. Those petty fears, resentments, prejudices, hatreds and jealousies which keep us from perfect inner harmony and adjustment to persons and conditions around us. There is no better guide for that wholesomeness of spirit which is free from these minor maladjustments than the teachings of Jesus. His word was to forgive seventy times seventy, for to hold RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE resentment and anger is a deadly menace to both mental and spiritual health. He said to be charitable in our judgment of others, to think kindly thoughts; to put aside worry and fear, for sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof; to love our enemies, putting hate from the heart. That our thought determines what we are, "As a man thinketh so he is.” And after all it is the spirit which is real and which is essential. We remember the spirit of a man long after his physical characteristics have been forgotten. It is the spirit of the occasion which we carry away and which endures. Someone has said that the basis of a better world must be found in the broad interpretation of the principles of mental health. That when men meet to plan for society without hate, fear, prejudices and selfishness, then and then only will we have security and peace. So healthfulness of mind and spirit and body are fundamental factors in building for better living. PURE RELIGION AND UNDEFILED Rosannah C. Irvine—Member of General Board VERY Relief Society member has a desire to be truly religious. Our creed is embodied in two words, Service and Goodness. The definition of religion given by James the Apostle is particularly applicable to us. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this. To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." There are two parts to this definition. To visit people in trouble, and to keep the Faith. To be good, and do good. To give service, and be pure in heart. Jesus said, "Blessed are the pure in heart." He also said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." That we are pure in heart goes without saying. But do we always put the same interpretation on the word Love that Jesus did? We stand for love of mankind. But do we truly love our neighbor as ourselves? There are natures that are antagonistic. Jesus lived above such feelings. Mrs. Blank may be hateful and sharp tongued. Think what miserable company she must be to herself! Why not brighten her up a bit by a friendly visit? Show her how delightful it is to have a sweet disposition. Try giving her a glass of your delicious jelly or a piece of your delectable cake to sweeten her bitterness. The woman across the street never goes out. Let's discover the reason. She has an ailing baby whom she cannot take out nor leave alone. Let's go in and tend the child while the weary mother takes a walk or goes to a meeting that we had expected to attend. We have not only done good, we have built something beautiful in our own character. All Relief Society workers do such things constantly. However, we are not always in the position of workers. But we are always members. And we are always neighbors. It has been said that no one is truly religious until he thinks he is dying. That only with his final breath does he realize how desolate one may be who has nothing to return to his Maker but a puny life full of weakness and conceit. Life is such a pitifully short time in which to accomplish the things we might have done. So short a time in which to overcome the human frailties that hamper our eternal progress. Death may come to us at any time. But while we live, let us continue to be kind and good. Let us seek with greater interest, enthusiasm, and love to be good Relief Society workers. Let us graciously, kindly, gladly live up to our creed and the admonition of James, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."
CHARITY SUFFERETH LONG AND IS KIND Inez K. Allen—Member of General Board
In the breast of each of you there is perhaps some hidden strife, and with it probably a silent prayer. Your individual problems may vary widely. It may be a smile conceals the keenest suffering, because the deepest wounds often are those of which one never speaks. Christ says: "Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest." The motto in our Relief Society Magazine is: "Charity Never Faileth." Paul tells us "Charity suffereth long and is kind." It takes great courage to keep sweet and kind when families must give up their own fireside and return to the home nest to share the earnings and fare of father and mother, sisters and brothers. To accept relief graciously is a great accomplishment. Many are truly sick at heart and need all the tenderness possible. One may give of his means, yet lack charity. Paul says: "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." You who have plenty remember "Charity vaunteth not itself and is not puffed up." You who administer relief, are you able to face ingratitude and still be kind? It may be the person with least appreciation needs your help most. You Relief Society women who can accept release from office and continue to be kind and helpful manifest real charity. An elderly woman had barely enough money in a bank to live on. She made her home first with one and then with another of her children, always paying something wherever she lived. None of them had more than they needed. The bank failed, but she was not told about it, and the son who usually cashed her check took it as usual, collected the amount among the family each month, and put it in her hands to do with as she had been accustomed to do, thus sparing her disappointment and preserving her independence. A man whose fortune had greatly shrunken said: "My wife suffered in silence; her kindness has saved my life. During these days of adjustment and struggle she has never met me without a smile. When my nerve failed me, and I spoke sharply, even harshly, her soft answer turned away my wrath. She smothered long cherished hopes about to be realized when reverses came. Although her advice, if it had been followed, would have saved some of our embarrassment, never once did she say, 'I told you so.' She helped us all to see the glory of the commonplace. By her long suffering kindness she has created an atmosphere in which the spirit of the Lord is wont to dwell: a home where we may pray, and where we have come to know the greatest gifts are not purchased without a price." In a home where there is real charity which suffereth long and is kind, each member of the family is helped to do all he can do, just as flowers in spring rise and bloom in the warm sun's rays.
A MUSIC MESSAGE Ida Peterson Beal—Member of General Board
Never was there a time when truly good music was more a need than right now. Encouragement, cheer and spiritual uplift come through an active participation in and listening to good music. Could there be a better training school for these blessings than the home? Music in the home becomes a spiritual anchor that will help many to weather the depression. Music helps to take our minds off the worries of daily life. If it had no other merit this would be enough to recommend it in times like these. Music is an ideal way in which to spend an evening. It will leave one refreshed and happy, with a lingering thought of real entertainment. It makes for the happiness of friends together. In the home we have another agent to help us in our search for good in music. "The advent of the radio broadcast has probably done more to create interest in music for the people of this country than any other medium yet brought before the public." Through the medium of the radio we are privileged to hear the great artists, the pianist, the singer, the violinist, the orchestras; also superb dramatic productions. It helps to cultivate and stimulate our music appreciation and to enhance the value of the great legacies left us by the masters. With our growing musical knowledge, there is no reason why we should not have better singing in our churches, bigger choirs prepared to give us the best in hymns and choral music. Leadership in this direction must be stimulated. The Relief Society has shown its interest in and an appreciation of good music always. Good congregational singing, hymn singing, has been one of its aims. To further this influence singing groups have been organized to produce good choral music. The interest manifested by these groups and the results of their labor have been most gratifying. From far and near, reports have been received praising the work of the Relief Society "Singing Mothers." They are a real asset to the organization. Again the Relief Society urges that serious consideration be given to all the music used in our worship; and the whole music service ought
293
to be such that will cause our people to lay aside what is unworthy and bring them nearer to God. The music constitutes part of the divine worship and should receive just as respectful attention as that given to the speakers. God should be worshipped with the best music we are able to offer, both as to the material we use and the manner of presenting it. Choristers and organists should consider themselves servants of the Lord, and their offices should be filled with a prayerful desire to have music function as one of the saving influences in the lives of the people. Let them be like the minstrels of old to bring solace and comfort in our every day life so that our souls may be open to the true influence of music and drink in its message with understanding hearts.