WE are happy this morning to greet you dear Relief Society Stake Officers and Board Members and Mission Presidents. We pray that our Heavenly Father will bless us with His Holy Spirit during this Conference, that our meetings will be profitable and enjoyable. As most of you sisters know, our beloved Counselor Julia A. Child passed away on January 23, 1935. It is natural that we are thinking of her this morning for all who were privileged to know Sister Child, and *This book is not yet off the press. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE work with her, loved her dearly. She was a loyal, efficient officer; a loving, courageous friend; and an ideal mother. We shall ever cherish her memory. In order that our work may continue to be carried on successfully the First Presidency has given us another Counselor, and three new Board Members. These sisters' names will not be presented this morning for your sustaining vote, but I believe you will want to know who they are. It gives me great pleasure to present Sister Kate M. Barker, our Second Counselor and Supervisor of Education. The Board Members are Sister Janet M. Thompson, the President of Ensign Stake; Sister Belle Smith Spafford, the First Counselor in Wells Stake, and Sister Donna D. Sorensen, a Stake Board Member of Wells Stake. These sisters are thorough Latter-day Saints, and efficient Relief Society workers. I am confident all branches of our work will go forward and we shall be able to give you greater assistance with your lessons with the help of these sisters. We are most grateful to you splendid officers for the great work you have done in the Magazine drive. There never has been such a successful campaign for Relief Society Magazine. Our subscriptions have increased six thousand. This has taken loyal, enthusiastic, earnest work, and we do thank you. The report from one small branch in the Western States Mission is a sample of those that have come from all over the United States and Hawaii, Canada and Mexico. This branch reports fourteen members with sixteen subscriptions. Many of our sisters have made sacrifice in order to subscribe. I pray that our Father will bless them and compensate them 271 in the information and pleasure they will receive. We regret that the sisters in some of the Wards and Branches have been disappointed because their names and quotas have not been published after they have made excellent records. This has occurred through sending their lists to the Mission or Stake President. The President has probably held these for other reports, and they have not reached the office in time. Stake Presidents and Stake Magazine Agents and Mission Presidents—even if it is only one branch or one ward which has made an excellent record, will you please forward the report at once. The discouragement that comes through disappointment may possibly retard the work another year. Another thing we do hope you will instruct your Magazine Agents to send the names in on our blanks. We have spoken of this so many times, I know you are tired of hearing it, but if you could be in our office and see the manner in which some subscriptions come in—sometimes they are on little pieces of scratch paper, almost unintelligible, and then the names are not interpreted correctly. Will you please take it up in your Union Meetings, and instruct your Ward Presidents and your Ward Magazine Agents to send the orders in on order blanks. They are free, and they make our work so much easier. There is another item for which we would like to thank you, that is your loyalty to the Burial Clothes Department. We are wondering, though, if all of the Stakes and Wards know we offer this service. A Stake Board Member from Idaho was in our office a few days ago, and said she never had an idea we had a Burial Clothes Department. Will you kindly let your people know at 272 the Union Meeting that we do have a Temple and Burial Clothes Department; that we send parcels to any place in the United States or elsewhere, and prepay all postal or express charges. We shall be grateful to have your loyal support where you do not have this service in your own Stake. There is a matter that I feel we should take most seriously, and that is the care of our people. The Government now is doing a wonderful thing in supplying the real material things necessary for those who are on relief. We believe that there are many of our fine L.D.S. People in every one of our communities who have the spirit of the pioneers in them, and who are trying to get along without Federal aid. We are asking you Stake Officers and Stake Board Members to encourage your Ward Presidents to see that these people are not allowed to suffer and are not forced to ask for Federal help if you can help them. There are people in every one of our communities who are not greatly interested in the Church or in Relief Society. These people are well taken care of by the Government, but there are some of the finest people we have in our Church who are now in a position where they need a little help. For ninety-three years Relief Society has been saying that we take care of our needy ones. I wonder if we are leaving it too much to the Government now. We have Sister Amy W. Evans of the Welfare Department, who takes care of our local people. Sister Evans told me a few days ago of a man who was earning $50.00 a month who had five children, and there was no mother in the home. If I remember this case correctly the oldest daughter was fourteen years of age, and was doing her best to keep the home together, but bedding and underwear RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will wear out, and on fifty dollars a month it is more than a fourteen-year-old girl can do to keep a family together. Is not this a case for the Relief Society President to look into, to see that they have warm bedding, to see that the bedding is clean and comfortable, to see that there is underwear. Are you looking after these cases? That leads up to another item we wish to have mentioned this morning, and that is our Charity Fund. Some of our Wards and Stakes think they do not need a Charity Fund. We have a report from one Ward who had this idea so they turned their Charity Fund into the General Fund and bought furniture with it. More than likely that furniture would add to their comfort, but can you be comfortable with the choicest furniture, if little children and aged people are cold for want of quilts, or hungry for things you could give them? Instead of reducing it, we would encourage you to take active measures to build a larger Charity Fund. Do the men in your Wards make contributions to Relief Society? We have illustrious examples of men who gave to a Charity Fund at our first meeting. Men now pay to Community Chests—our Stake Presidents, High Councilmen, Bishops and others donate generously. When one considers the service given by Relief Society, that every cent donated for charity is used in caring for those in need, the wonder is that men do not give to us at least as much as to other service organizations. We may be to blame because we do not ask. We are told, are we not, to "ask and ye shall receive." It would be interesting to have sent to our office a report of how many of our brethren are contributing to Relief Society. In Ward Conferences we have an excellent opportunity to bring the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Relief Society work before the people of the Ward, especially the brethren, but sometimes the Stake people prepare a fine doctrinal talk, without telling of Relief Society. We hope that you will plan programs for Ward Conferences that will educate the people of the Wards in Relief Society, and what we are doing. A report reached our office that in one Stake, the Visiting Teachers had difficulty in finding the sisters home in the afternoon. The teachers preferred to visit earlier in the day, but understood the General Board advised afternoon visiting. This is a mistake. We advise teachers to visit in the hour of the day best suited to the families visited. A few years ago we pledged ourselves, as Relief Society women, to uphold and sustain the law of quarantine. We feel that it is the mother's place to see that quarantine is strictly enforced. I wonder if our members are careful not to have contagious disease spread, and even if our child has a very slight case of Scarlet Fever that we use every precaution to keep the neighbor's child from getting the disease. We had an incident a few years ago when Scarlet Fever was around, where a woman from Salt Lake wanted to go out into one of the Stakes to a reunion in her Ward. Her child was not very well when she left. She was afraid it had been exposed, but she could not deny herself the pleasure of going to this Ward Reunion. She took the baby to the reunion and before three months had passed there were six little mounds and twelve empty arms in that community. Because she was not careful. Impress upon your women the need of the greatest care, if there is contagion in the family. We are happy to announce that we will begin publishing our lessons 273 for next Fall in our May Magazine. Will you make note of this, and will you take this information back to your Union Meetings, and ask the women to be careful of these magazines. Sometimes through the Summer these numbers get lost or mislaid, but we hope that having the lessons published so far in advance the women will be able to do a great deal of studying during the Summer and be well prepared for their lessons in the Winter. In connection with the lessons I would like to report to you that the Relief Society General Board is now in close contact with all of the Missions, especially the European and foreign Missions, and we have already sent to them the lessons for next year. If we had time this morning I know it would warm your hearts to hear the responses that have come from President Joseph F. Merrill, of the European Mission, from the French, Dutch, German-Austrian Missions, from Sister Murphy of the Hawaiian Mission, and from other Mission Presidents. Our lessons have gone to them now. So that they can be translated and ready in the Fall. President Merrill of the European Mission has asked the Relief Society General Board to take each Mission as we would a new Stake, and we are delighted to do this. Each month we send a Bulletin to the foreign Missions, trying to keep them near to us and are helping them to do the work as it is done at home as far as possible. So now we feel that the Danish Mission is just as close as Millard Stake, and the French Mission as close as Ensign Stake. Annual Dues are coming in very nicely, thanks to you dear Officers. The question of inactive members is always with us. In one Ward with a membership of ninety, only sixty pay Annual Dues. The names of 274 the thirty inactive members are placed on a separate roll and not reported, in order to have one hundred percent paid. We prefer you would not do that. If there are only sixty of the ninety who are paying the Annual Dues, send in the Annual Dues for these sixty, but you still have ninety. Do not throw away thirty fine souls, try and work with them and get them interested. They are still our members. We have members who are far away, possibly on a farm five or six miles away, and it is impossible for them to come to meeting. What are you sisters doing to keep these women interested? Could you assign some of the sisters to write letters to them and tell them about the meetings you are having, what your lessons are, encourage them, and tell them how glad you will be if they will come to meeting when they have an opportunity. My dear Stake Presidents, when people come to your Stakes and say the General Board recommends certain policies or articles, do not take it for granted until you hear officially from us. If you are in doubt, write to the office and we will try and get word to you without delay. Frequently our Stake Secretaries send checks to the office, not indicating what they are for, just enclosing them in an envelope. One Stake sent in a check for forty-two dollars. The bookkeeper credited it as Annual Dues. When I was going over the Burial Clothes accounts I said, "We had better send a letter to this Relief Society and call attention to the Burial Clothes order which has not been paid." Fortunately we did not send the letter, but happened to think of this check for forty-two dollars which had been credited to Annual Dues when it should have been for Burial Clothes. We congratulate Ward and Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Relief Societies for the very fine programs given in celebration of March seventeenth. We believe they were the most successful we have ever had. As a General Board we have written to the General Authorities of the Church thanking them for the courtesy they extended to us in letting us use the great Tabernacle. They gave us the Church hour to broadcast the Relief Society Singing Mothers and send a Relief Society message. I believe in the majority of the Wards the Bishops allowed the Relief Society to have their celebration in Sacrament Meeting. This was a very great compliment, and I want to express appreciation to the brethren who made this possible. The General Board is publishing a book, which we had hoped would be off the press before this Conference. It has been written and arranged by Sister Glenn Johnson Beeley, and is entitled 'Handicraft for Every Woman." We are confident that this book will be of great service in your Work and Business Meeting, as it will give instruction in many phases of handwork. This manual will be made as inexpensive as possible, and will be ready for distribution in a very short time. We hope to have the cooperation of every Stake and Ward in getting this book for your women. I know the Work and Business leaders in the Relief Society have had a very difficult time. We have left them almost alone, and it is remarkable what the Stake leaders have done. A fine example is now shown in the Ensign Stake exhibition at 67 East South Temple Street. Sister Beeley will be on the Fourth Floor of the Bishop's Building again this year, beginning Thursday morning, to teach you handicraft, and tell you about the new book. We have had some new Stakes organized RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE during the last six months. Two of the Presidents have been in and I know how wonderfully they are doing their work. You know the work you are doing is greater than just club work, because you are called and many of you set apart by men holding the Priesthood of God. You have been baptized and have received the Holy 275 Ghost, and you are entitled to the Spirit of the Lord to help you in your work. I pray that God will bless you. I pray He will bless you in your homes that your families will keep well, that you will enjoy your time here, and that you will be able to take helpful messages back to your Stakes. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.. ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President Oct., 1934 Gridley Ruthe B. Samson Dec., 1934 New York Lorena C. Fletcher Dec., 1934 Oakland Sara H. Carruth Oct., 1934 Sacramento Olive Lindblad Feb., 1935 San Bernardino Ethel Eugenia Blomquist REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Mar., 1935 Carbon Katherine MacKnight Frances Christensen Feb., 1935 Lost River Elizabeth G. Hoggan Vida Nelson Dec., 1934 San Francisco Sara H. Carruth Esther D. Stephens Mar., 1935 Pocatello Vera Rich Horsfall Amy J. Hawkes Missions Released Appointed President California Rose R. Hinckley Florence Smith British Rintha P. Douglas Ramona W. Cannon South Africa East Central Geneve J. Dalton Isabelle C. Jones Edith P. Backman Mrs. Kate W. Kirkham
GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND
It gives me great pleasure to present to you a brief summary of the Annual Report. The full details will be published in the May issue of the Magazine. This has been a banner year for the Relief Society and I want to congratulate the Secretaries on their very excellent work. We have had more perfect reports this year than ever before, and the little mistakes in the reports were of a minor character. Total balance on hand, January, 1934, $127,601.23; Total receipts during 1934 (cash and merchandise) $230,431.41; Total balance on hand and receipts, $341,785.30; Paid for charitable purposes (cash and merchandise), $75,789.79; Total disbursements, $198,651.57; Total balance, December 31, 1934, $143,133.73; Total assets, $979,012.31; Ward Conferences held 1,392; Number of visits by Visiting Teachers, 972,488; Number Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 222,630. Membership in 1933, 68,796; in 1934, 70,515; an increase of 1,719. The membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,167; Visiting Teachers, 24,140; Other Members, 31,208. Average attendance 1933, 32,485; 1934, 33,833; an increase of 1,348. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1933, $83,853.27; 1934, $75,789.79; a decrease of $8,063.48.
 
VISITING TEACHERS Elise B. Alder, Member of General Board
VISITING TEACHERS have a distinct and individual work which is really of great importance to the organization, as they meet the women all over the Church, and have one of the greatest privileges of women of the entire Church to show kindness and to do good. As time has advanced and new ideas been conceived, they are expected to measure up to other teachers, and live up to their name—Teacher, which the dictionary tells us is "One who imparts knowledge." With a view of improving and advancing the work, and making a definite place for the work of the teachers in connection with the Ward Relief Society meetings, the General Board in 1928 inaugurated a special forty-five minute meeting, known as "Visiting Teachers' Training Meeting," to be held the first Tuesday of the month preceding the regular Theology and Testimony Meeting. The President presides, and has a wonderful opportunity to not only discuss problems which may arise in the teachers' work, but to teach the fundamentals and the aim of the Society, taking our Handbook as her text book. A class leader was appointed to be in charge of the Teachers' Topic, under the President, and to rank with the other three class leaders in the Society. Her duty is not to give instructions regarding the work, this being entirely the privilege of the President, but to present and discuss an educational topic prepared by the General Board and printed in the Relief Society Magazine, and to assist the Visiting Teachers in preparing this message to be taken to the homes in their districts. The object of the Topic is to stimulate profitable conversation and discussion during the visit of the teachers in the homes, and to leave with the women a message for thought and improvement. Now I feel sure the question arises in some of your minds: How can so much be accomplished in the forty-five minute training meeting? We are often told how much it would improve our minds if we read ten minutes a day—and it is surprising how much can be accomplished in that meeting with systematic effort and preparation, keeping ever in mind the old but true maxim: "Where there's a will there's a way." Help educate the young wives and mothers in our Relief Society work, prepare them to make good teachers, tell them if they will join our Society and enter into the work whole-heartedly, their work in their homes will seem lighter and their influence with their husbands and children will be increased for good. It has been truly said that Relief Society work makes women courageous and able to stand up for their ideals; it gives them peace and poise and grace that stamps our work as work of the Master.
LOYALTY Nettie D. Bradford, Member of General Board
LOYALTY is faithful performance of duty to country, home, institution and principle. Loyalty is regarded as one of the most pleasing as well as one of the most essential attributes of a fine character.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Loyalty is the virtue of firmly standing by what one believes in. It is the very soul of honesty. President Joseph F. Smith once said: "We must always bear in mind that we are not only citizens of the Kingdom of God, but that we are citizens of the United States and of the States in which we dwell. We have ever been loyal both to our state and nation as well as to the Church of God, and we defy the world to prove to the contrary. We have been willing to fight our country's battles, to defend her honor and to uphold and sustain her good name." A true test of loyalty was proved during the Latter-day Saints' journey to the Rocky Mountains. When the government of the United States called upon the President of the Church to furnish five hundred men to fight on the Mexican border. As the historian has stated: 'The surprise, almost dismay with which the body of the Saints received the startling news, may be imagined. Five hundred able-bodied men, the pick and flower of the camp, wanted—and that too, in an Indian country in the midst of an exodus, unparalleled for dangers, and hardships when every active man was needed. Women, in some instances, had been driving teams and tending stock, owing to the limited number of men available. And yet it was their country calling; that country to which their Pilgrim ancestors had fled; for which their patriot sires had fought and suffered, whose deeds of heroism were among their highest and holiest traditions." What would their leaders decide to do was the question uppermost in the minds of these loyal Pioneers. Not long were they left unanswered. When Captain Allen arrived and made known his errand President Young said: "You shall have your Battalion, and if there are not enough young men, we will take the old men, and if there are not enough old men we will take the women." In three days a force of five hundred forty-nine men reported and were enlisted, organized and ready to march on a journey the like of which had no parallel in the history of the world. A splendid example of family loyalty was shown in the home of the Prophet Joseph Smith. His parents, his brothers and his sisters were all loyal to him in the cause for which he and his brother Hyrum laid down their lives. If everyone would be loyal to his childhood teachings, as was one young girl who emigrated to America from foreign lands, this would be a much better world. This girl said: "I left my home and loved ones for the Gospel's sake. Upon my arrival in America, many temptations beset my path but I could not be disloyal to my mother's teachings. Whenever I was tempted to do wrong her face always seemed to come before me and I was given greater strength to overcome evil." How my heart swells with gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the blessing that is mine in being counted worthy of associating and working with the noble women of the Relief Society—women whose loyalty to our wonderful organization is unquestioned.
THELMA LINDSEY Representing the District of Hawaii, Hawaiian Mission Relief Society
In Hawaii we usually greet, before our talk, with Aloha, which means "How do you do?" I say Aloha to you all.
278
I am a delegate from Hawaii, and am grateful for this privilege of standing before you and telling you of the wonderful work we are doing on the Islands of Hawaii. I am Second Counselor in the District of Hawaii, and we carry out, to the best of our ability, the instructions that are sent from the General Board to Sister Murphy, our President. On the Island there are thirteen different branches, estimating roughly one hundred and seventy-eight members. We do weaving and other things, and work together in harmony, and try our very best to meet twice a month in Union Meetings, where instructions are given. We have the Magazine, and at our last Conference held in my Branch,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the sisters put on the play "The Spirit of the Magazine." It was translated into the Hawaiian language, and was an inspiration to outsiders as well as to members of the Church. I wish to thank President Robison who has called us to speak, for the instructions which have been given. I know the Relief Society sisters on the Island of Hawaii will be glad to hear them. It is a privilege to be here with you all, to see how you carry on Relief Society work. We may be strangers, but in the work of the Lord we are one—brothers and sisters all. We are all God's children, and through the love of God we are assembled here this day. I ask the blessings of the Lord to be upon us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
DINA POKINI Representing the District of Kauai, Hawaiian Mission Relief Society
My dear co-workers: We are happy to be here today, and when we are asked to speak we have to obey. The Relief Society on the Island of Kauai is doing a very good work. We have eight different districts, and the members are very active. I am First Counselor on the District Board of the Island of Kauai. I certainly enjoy the Relief Society Magazine, and I have learned a great deal from it. Brother and Sister VERNA H. Murphy have passed through the Island of Kauai from time to time and have tried to put in the minds of the mothers of the islands to take up the lessons of the Relief Society, and we are making progress. I am also glad to be here and to hear what has been taken up this morning. I ask God to bless each and every one of us who are here today, and also those who are not here today, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
MURPHY President. Hawaiian Mission Relief Society
I have been thrilled with the remarks made this morning, and I am also thrilled with the work that is going on in Hawaii. I want to let you know that we are certainly doing our part in Relief Society work, and I will give you a brief summary of our statistical report for the year. Our total disbursements in the Islands of Hawaii were $2,746.50; Cash on Hand, December 31, 1934, $11,368.24. They are all poor people, but are rich in the work of the Lord, and in our charity work. I
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
want to tell you the main reason that they are rich in their treasury is that they give until it hurts. The character of the Hawaiian people, is to give until it hurts. Sister Robison said you should take advantage of the Ward Conferences. I want to tell you in Hawaii we have more than once a year to present Relief Society work. Every fifth Sunday is given over to the Relief Society, and they are putting on programs to bring Relief Society before the brethren, who donate to Relief Society work. This happens very often in Hawaii, We take great joy in reporting to you that we have so many young girls in our Relief Society work. Sister Olivia Waddoups is doing a good work among the young girls, and takes up the Magazine work in its entirety. Our sisters are very grateful for the little one act plays that come out in the Magazine so often. When we have a thing presented to us before our eyes, we glean more from it, and lessons can be put over better
279
by one act plays than in any other way. One way in which I keep in touch with all of my fifty-two Relief Societies is to have monthly reports come to me regularly, and after three years of hard work 100% reports come in to me. Through these I know of all their activities, and from many of the small branches this is the report that comes, seven enrolled, nine present. Not only in the small branches but over in Kauai, forty-four enrolled, forty-four present. I pray my dear brothers and sisters, that we may make this work our work, our individual work, and that we may never tire in the work of the Lord. Your presence here this morning shows to me the eagerness with which you take up your work, and if you should go to Hawaii you would find the same work going on. From Hawaii we give you our Aloha. May the Lord bless us, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.