Mothers of Our Nation (A Pageant for Mother's Day) By Mabel S. Harmer I. Pilgrim. II. Washington's Farewell to his Mother. Minuet. Pioneer. III. IV. V. Civil War. VI. World War. VII. Finale. Each scene is introduced by a reader. Considerable leeway is allowed in the arrangement of the scenes. The director may use her own ingenuity and the resources at her command. Appropriate music should be played or sung during the scenes. I. THE PILGRIM MOTHER. Reader She braved a wild and stormy sea To face an unknown shore. She braved a hidden enemy That lurked outside her door. She spun the cloth to make her gown, Wrought wax for candle light, She learned to take a rifle down And prime it for a fight. She did not seek reward of gold Upon this foreign sod, She sought with others brave and bold Freedom to worship God. The scene may be a pilgrim mother seated at a spinning wheel with one or two children playing about, or a group of pilgrims passing by on their way to church. II. WASHINGTON's FAREWELL TO His Mother. Reader ) On the fourteenth day of April, 1789, when Washington was notified of his election to the office of Chief Magistrate of our country, he waited only for a hasty ride to Fredericksburg to bid farewell to his aged mother before starting for New York. He noted with sorrow the ravages which disease had made. Upon the aged frame, and it was with a heavy heart that he addressed her: "The people, Madam, have been pleased to elect me to the Chief Magistracy of the United States, but before I can assume the functions of my office, I have come to bid you an affectionate farewell. So soon as the weight of public business can be disposed of, I shall hasten to Virginia, and''—here the matron interrupted with—"And you shall see me no more; my great age and disease warn me that I shall not be long for this world. But go, my son, and may Heaven's and a mother's blessing be with you always." The scene is a reproduction of the picture, "Washington's Farewell to his Mother." III. The Minuet Reader The gay colonial dame, with dainty step Tripped forward in the stately minuet. Her powdered wig with curls and twists stood high. Correct was every gesture and quite demure her eye. Her flowered gown with many a fold draped o'er Her silken petticoats that touched the floor. And thus she came along with dainty step To enter in the stately minuet. Scene: The minuet, using as many couples as is desired. Directions for a MOTHERS OF simple minuet can be found in ''Physical pas for Elementary Schools," by Clark. IV. Tue PIONEER MOTHER. Reader With aching heart she left that loved home Her hands had helped with stringent toil to build, And walked upon the prairie's vast expanse To face whatever dangers it might yield. With courage born of faith and high resolve She met the rigid hardships of each day. She gave the hungry of her frugal store And helped a weary neighbor on her way. At eventide she sought the campfire's gleam, God's mercies and His blessings there to tell; She nestled close her babe within her arms And with unwavering voice sang, "All is Well." Scene: A pioneer camp at evening. The women may be preparing the evening meal, mending clothing and caring for the children. Some children may be playing "Indian" with bows and arrows. The scene may end with a Virginia Reel and the singing of "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Conversation may be introduced as desired. V. THE CIVIL War. Reader Who but a mother knew the agony Of sending one in blue and one in grey To fight upon the fields of our loved land, And meet forbidding battle's stern demand. What joy must then have filled the mother's heart OUR NATION 309 When strife was o'er, when North and South were one, And the flag that was rent in twain Was whole again, and without a stain.: Scene: A mother of the Civil War period seated and holding the American flag upon her lap. At each side kneels a soldier, one in the uniform of the Union and the other in the grey of the Confederacy. The song offstage might be "The Flag Without a Stain." VI. THE WORLD WAR MOTHER. Reader Again war vexed the land with its sad strife. The mother sought with all the courage life Could give, to help an ailing world. Hers the deft hands and willing heart that shared The burdens left behind—that dared to sing When darkening clouds hung low. Hers was the faith that smiled throughout uncertainty; The gratitude that shed a tear in victory— Hers, the unfaltering prayers. Scene: A group of women in Red Cross uniforms making bandages and surgical. Dressings. The accompanying music is "Over There," "Keep the Home Fires Burning," or some other familiar war song. VII. FINAL Reader. MOTHER Her strength has been gathered from mountains Where granite of ages stands high; Her beauty of purpose from valleys Enriched by an azure sky. The desert had yielded its lesson, It nurtured the seed that was sown, And the rose that it bore has imparted Its sweetness to use for her own. 310 As streams from the hills send their freshness To streams lying thirsty below, Her comfort and help to the needy Abundantly ever flows. Her efforts may often be humble, But help need not come from the strong— The dew which has fled with the sunrise Has moistened the lily at dawn. I \ es as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She has conquered the perils of ocean, The terrors that stalk on the plain. She has softened the heart of the desert, A home for her loved ones to gain. She has pillowed the head of the weary, Given surcease to many in pain; She has added her songs to the joyful, All praise to her lovely name!