[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bazaar Florence Dunford Swift]
Cjrom    it ear  an d  dfc ar 
I  especially  appreciate  the  course  of 
study  outlined  by  the  General  Board.  It 
truly  giNCS  each  member  who  reads  the 
Magazine,  a  well-balanced  understanding 
of  the  important  things  in  life,  literature, 
theology,  social  science,  sewing,  work  plan- 
ning, and  in  the  many  other  helps  given. 
The  stories  are  lessons  in  themselves.  I 
enjoyed  the  April  editorial  "Swifter  Than 
a  Weaver's  Shuttle,"  by  Helen  W.  Ander- 
son, very  much.  The  story  "The  Heart 
of  the  Home,"  by  Frances  C.  Yost  in  the 
April  iVIagaziiie  was  excellent.  I  always 
enjoy  stories  by  this  author  as  her  stories 
are  so  true  to  life  and  always  a  personal 
lesson  in  li\ing  can  be  learned  by  reading 
each  of  them.  The  Relief  Societv  sisters 
in  the  South  are  deeply  grateful  for  hav- 
ing such  a  wonderful  Magazine.  It  has 
been  such  a  help  to  us  in  our  work  and 
development,  as  most  of  the  branches 
have  been  organized  only  a  few  years  and 
progress  has  been  made  through  diligent, 
combined  effort,  and  the  Magazine  has 
been  our  source  of  contact  with  the  work 
of  Relief  Society. 
— Mrs.  Hazel  Clark 
Work  Director  Counselor 
Southern  States  Mission 
Eglin  Air  Base,  Florida 
Mary  Nuffer's  letter  in  the  August  Relief 
Societv  Magazine  reminded  me  that  I  had 
not  written  and  told  you,  nor  Edna  Day, 
how  much  I  liked  her  "Wee  Pine  Knot" 
(Third  Prize  Story,  March  1958).  It  car- 
ried a  \ery  pertinent  lesson.  I  asked  my 
own  girls  to  be  sure  and  read  it.  I  am 
always  delighted  to  see  one  of  Florence 
Dunford's  stories  ("Papa  and  His  Grapes," 
May  1958),  and  I  enjoyed  Olive  Burt's 
serial  "Elizabeth's  Children."  Perhaps  it 
would  save  space  if  I  just  said  I  enjoy  the 
Magazine.  \\'ith  two  exceptions,  I  have 
every  year's  Magazines  since  1919.  The 
earlier  issues  were  my  mother's.  It  is  in- 
teresting to  see  how  the  Magazine  has 
grown  and  developed,  and  ho\^•  much  closer 
to  our  needs  the  later  ones  are. 
— Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson 
Boise,  Idaho 
I  have  recently  had  a  rather  long  ill- 
ness from  which  I  am  now  thankfully  re- 
covered. For  quite  some  time  I  was  unable 
to  interest  myself  in  reading  of  any  kind, 
but  as  I  began  to  feel  better  I  very  much 
enjoyed  the  special  short  story  issue  of 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  (April  1958). 
I  passed  this  Magazine  on  to  two  of  my 
fellow  patients  in  the  hospital,  and  they 
were  quite  impressed  with  the  wide  field 
the  Magazine  covers.  I  was  privileged  to 
ha\e  a  few  gospel  conversations  with  them. 
I  certainly  missed  my  association  with  Re- 
lief Society  during  those  months,  but  was 
uplifted  by  willing  help  and  visits  from 
the  sisters  of  the  branch  during  those 
months.  I  trust  and  pray  that  this  work 
may  go  forward,  and  that  we  may  do  much 
good  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 
— Minnie  Selkirk 
Newcastle  on  Tyne 
England 
I  surely  enjoyed  the  July  issue  of  the 
Magazine.  Thanks  to  Jean  Ridges  Jennings 
("You  Can  Sew — V.  Pressing")  I  have 
learned  several  new  sewing  tricks.  Dorothy 
J.  Roberts'  "The  Olympian  Rain  Forest" 
was  wonderfully  descriptive  and  interest- 
ing to  me.  I  found  Enola  Chamberlin's 
touching  poem  "With  You  Away"  poig- 
nantlv  lovely.  Thanks  again  for  a  won- 
derfully hig  little  Magazine. 
— Elsie  McKinnon  Strachan 
Santa  Ana,  California 
I  love  the  Magazine  very  much.  The 
poems,  short  stories,  recipes,  and  the 
lessons  all  have  been  inspiring  to  me,  and 
ha\'e  helped  me  to  assume  responsibilities 
which  before  studying  the  Magazine  would 
haxe  frightened  me.  Now,  with  these  good 
recipes,  I  am  confident  in  having  guests 
come  to  our  home  for  dinner.  Now  in 
the  last  few  issues  we  have  directions  for 
learning  to  sew.  I  am  going  to  start  from 
the  first  issue  and  read  all  of  the  sewing 
articles. 
— Eldora  Jane  Williams 
Waterloo,  Iowa 
Page  642