[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Home | Title: 640 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the West Spanish-American Mission McNone N. Perry]
Spanish-American ITlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian URING the first week of November 1957, the First Presidency announced that a new mission of the Church had been formed, to be known as the West Spanish-American Mission. Los Angeles was selected as the headquarters of the new mission, and Leland M. Perry of Provo, Utah, was chosen as the first president. President Perry had served in many positions of leadership in the Church, and he and his wife were missionaries in Mexico in 1925-27. The territory of this new mission includes the States of California and Arizona and southeastern Nevada. This area was formerly under the jurisdiction of the Spanish-American Mission, with headquarters in San Antonio, 'Texas, and a number of branches had already been developed among Spanish-speaking people. It is estimated that there are now nearly one million Spanish-speaking people within the borders of the new mission. In February 1958, a large, hacienda-style home, on the corner of Via Corona and Sadler Avenues, East Los Angeles, was purchased for a mission home. Shortly afterwards President and Mrs. Perry arrived at the new headquarters after spending several days in San Antonio, 'Texas, where they consulted with President Harold I. Bowman of the SpanishAmerican Mission. 'Transfer of missionaries, mission records, and operation of the mission were discused during the visit in 'Texas. Photograph submitted by McNone N.

---

Pitted ripe olives 1% tsp. Salt " tsp. Pepper 1 c. Water Lightly brown beef in salad oil over medium heat. Add onion and garlic and saute until golden. Scason with salt, pepper, and chili powder. Add tomato sauce and water to meat mixture. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes. Add defrosted beans and quartered ripe olives. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes longer. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 Mexican HasH 2 c. Ground cooked beef 1 can (12 0z.) whole kernel com, 2 tbs. Shortening drained 1% c. Diced cooked potatoes 2 tbs. Chopped pimiento 1 can condensed tomato soup % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Brown sugar: % tsp. Chili powder ¥% c. Chopped onion buttered rye cracker crumbs tomato slices Lightly brown beef and onion in hot shortening in an ovenproof skillet. Add remaining ingredients and stir gently until mixed. Top with buttered rye cracker crumbs and tomato slices. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for about 30 minutes, Makes 6 servings. SpanisH Meat BAtus 2 Ibs. Ground beef "2, tsp. Pepper 1 tbs. Sage 1 small can red diced pimientos 2 tsp. Salt (optional ) 1 medium green pepper, diced "2 c. Water 1 c. Crushed soda crackers 1' cans of tomatoes 2 well-beaten eggs "2 ¢. Catsup 1 c. Brown rice 1 c. Diced onion 1 tbs. Parsley flakes Blend ingredients and roll into 2-inch balls. Place in. Dripper. Pour tomato catsup and diced onion over all. Bake 1% hours at 350°. ~> Chiahe ctor" allt Roxana Farnsworth Hase The road meandered by a murmuring brook, And there in beauty stood a chokecherry tree; I paused beneath to take a second look As fragrant petals floated down to me. I marked the tree as mine that very day, For well I knew the blooms would turn to fruit Which I with my two hands could bear away When ladened bough bent down toward the root. As summer waned I garnered in the prize And in my kitchen, tempting as could be, Stood chokecherry jelly, sparkling as the eyes Of those who came to share my delicacy. I hope in spring, if fortune smiles on me, To visit again this lovely chokecherry tree. The Bazaar Florence B. Dunford S the spring day wore on, Shari Medford felt more and more restless. She was finishing up her housecleaning which she had kept at steadily for many hours each day for the past three weeks. It's about that phone call, she thought, polishing the last breakfast dish, placing it in its neat pile in her sweet-smelling cupboards. Sister Heath didn't ask me for anything for the bazaar. Well, she did ask for a dollar to help out with the dinner, Shari reflected. If she had wanted me to donate toward the bazaar, she'd have said so. But would she? Shari, without a car, had found it difficult to attend Relief Societv since the new