[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
cJnbute  to  LPresident  ^JUas)id  (y.  1 1  icJ\ay[, 
J^  i^reat   i / Lissionarti 
On  His  Eighty-Fifth  Birthday,  September  8,  1958 
/eanette  McKay  Morrell 
PRESIDENT  David  O.  McKay  is  one  of  the  most  effective  missionaries 
the  Church  has  ever  had.  His  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  his  sincerity, 
his  courage  to  stand  for  his  beliefs,  his  sympathetic  understanding  of 
people  and  their  problems,  his  keen  sense  of  humor,  his  charming  person- 
ality, his  exemplary  life,  his  noble  appearance,  and  his  humility  appeal 
alike  to  the  great  ones  of  the  earth  and  to  the  lowly  ones. 
During  his  first  mission  to  Great  Britain  in  1897,  ^^  ^^'^^  ^^  experience 
that  was  to  affect  his  whole  life.  At  an  especially  spiritual  missionary  con- 
ference in  Scotland,  Elder  James  McMurrin  of  the  European  presidency 
said  in  part,  ''Brother  David,  Satan  has  desired  you  that  he  may  sift  you 
as  wheat,  but  God  is  mindful  of  you,  and  if  you  will  keep  the  faith,  you 
will  yet  sit  in  the  leading  councils  of  the  Church."  David  O.  McKay  wrote 
in  his  diar\':  ''I  resolved  then  and  there  to  keep  the  faith  and  to  be  of 
service  to  my  fellow  men."  His  devotion  to  his  Church  and  to  his  country 
since  that  time  is  proof  of  how  well  he  has  kept  that  resolution. 
His  contact  with  young  people,  as  principal  of  Weber  Academy,  and  as 
he  directed  the  work  of  Sundav  Schools  in  Weber  County  and,  later,  in 
the  entire  Church,  was  an  inspiration  to  which  thousands  have  attested 
throughout  their  lives. 
His  world-wide  tour  of  the  missions  of  the  Church,  1920-21,  in  w^hich 
he  and  his  companion,  Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  brought  unspeakable  joy  to 
many  who  had  never  before  met  an  apostle,  was  an  outstanding  mission- 
ary experience.  In  Samoa,  a  monument  was  erected  in  commemoration  of 
this  visit.  In  China,  that  land  was  dedicated  for  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel,  and  in  many  of  the  countries  visited  there  were  miraculous  happen- 
ings due  to  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  heavenly  spirit  which  accompanied 
their  labors. 
During  his  presidency  of  the  European  Mission  (1922-23)  he  suc- 
ceeded, by  direct  contact  with  editors  of  the  leading  newspapers,  in  stop- 
ping the  spurious  articles  that  had  been  impeding  missionary  work,  and 
in  having  them  replaced  by  fair  treatment  of  the  work  of  the  Church  in 
England  as  well  as  in  other  countries  of  Europe.  The  direct  effect  of  this 
accomplishment  was  a  great  increase  in  membership  during  the  following 
two  years.  President  and  Sister  McKay  traveled  more  than  2,000  miles 
in  the  European  Missions  and  conducted  525  meetings. 
The   temples  dedicated  here  and  abroad   have  afforded  wonderful 
Page  573

574  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1958 
opportunities  for  missionary  work,  especially  among  local  and  national 
government  officials.  As  an  illustration,  at  the  dedication  of  the  temple 
and  college  in  New  Zealand,  in  addition  to  the  hundreds  of  interested  peo- 
ple who  were  in  attendance,  there  were  present  the  Prime  Minister,  Mr. 
Nash;  member  of  Parliament,  Dame  Hilda  Ross;  Superintendent  of  Edu- 
cation, Mr.  L.  L.  F.  Ensor,  and  other  officials.  They  spoke  at  the  college 
exercises,  and  before  the  end  of  their  visit  with  President  McKav  and 
others  of  his  party,  became  real  friends,  as  the  New  Zealand  papers  and 
Associated  Press  reports  and  photographs  attested. 
At  the  dedication  of  the  chapel  at  Suva  there  were  present  the  Gov- 
ernor and  Lady  Garvey,  the  Mayor  and  Mrs.  A.  D.  Leys,  the  Colonial  Secre- 
tary, Mr.  P.  D.  MacDonald,  and  others  with,  the  same  resulting  friendly 
relations  established.  Everywhere,  there  were  prejudices  allayed  and  ex- 
pressions of  good  will  toward  the  Church  and  our  Country.  These 
experiences  can  be  multiplied  by  every  visit  of  President  McKay  here  and 
abroad,  during  the  past  sixty-one  active,  busy  years  of  his  devotion  to  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Another  phase  of  his  effective  missionary  work  is  accomplished  in 
his  office  in  Salt  Lake  City.  When  at  home,  he  arrives  at  the  Church 
office  building  never  later  than  seven  a.m.  in  order  to  perform  his  regular 
strenuous  daily  duties,  so  there  will  be  time  during  the  day  for  meetings, 
conferences  with  groups  and  individuals,  and  almost  daily  calls  from  out-of- 
State  visitors. 
Of  the  latter,  whether  they  are  political  leaders,  heads  of  national 
unions,  foreign  representatives,  officials  of  other  churches,  governors  of 
states,  newspaper  groups  from  Russia  or  other  countries,  or  whoever  the 
guests  may  be,  they  are  received  with  the  same  unhurried  courtesy  extended 
always  by  this  wonderful  President.  Invariably,  they  leave  with  a  kindly 
feeling  toward  the  Church  and  a  greater  respect  for  its  leadership.  As  a 
representative  of  this  Country  to  other  lands,  his  influence  has  been  felt 
and  appreciated  by  telegrams,  calls,  and  written  communications  as  ex- 
pressed in  the  following  extracts: 
In  a  letter  from  Honorable  John  Foster  Dulles,  Secretary  of  State, 
''I  am  sure  you  and  Mrs.  McKay  did  a  notable  service  in  your  travels  as 
unofficial  ambassadors  of  good  will." 
A  letter  from  Honorable  Arthur  V.  Watkins,  Senator  from  Utah,  con- 
tains this  paragraph:  "I  have  been  following  your  tour  in  the  press,  and 
I  am  sure  that  you  have  done  a  great  deal  of  good  in  the  various  countries 
which  you  have  visited.  I  am  sure  that  the  relations  of  the  United  States 
have  been  greatly  enhanced  by  your  visit.  I  know  of  no  better  example  of 
an  outstanding  American  Christian  citizen  than  you.'' 
May  this  eighty-fifth  birthday  be  only  a  milestone  in  many  more 
years  of  glorious  missionary  accomplishment.

Your  Quest  for  Truth 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romncy 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
(Baccalaureate  Address  at  Brigham  Young  University,  May  30,  1957) 
1  
commend  and  congratulate  you 
members  of  the  Class  of  1957. 
Especially  do  I  congratulate 
you  on  your  being  graduates  of  this 
Church  University.  Here  you  haxe 
been  free  to  search  for  knowledge  in 
the  fields  of  your  choice.  By  divine 
injunction  you  ha\e  been  encour- 
aged to  ''seek  learning  by  study  and 
also  by  faith"  concerning: 
.  .  .  things  both  in  hca\cn  and  in  the 
earth,  and  under  the  earth;  things  which 
ha\e  been,  things  which  are,  things  which 
must  shortly  come  to  pass;  things  which 
are  at  home,  things  which  are  abroad;  the 
wars  and  the  perplexities  of  the  nations, 
and  the  judgments  which  arc  on  the  land; 
and  a  knowledge  also  of  countries  and  of 
kingdoms   (D  &  C  88:79). 
Surely  yours  has  been  a  purpose- 
ful education. 
Your  completion  of  the  work  re- 
quired for  graduation  is  a  monument 
of  achievement  in  }Our  quest  for 
truth.  Your  industry  and  persever- 
ance in  pursuit  of  learning  are  in 
harmony  with  the  best  traditions  of 
your  people,  who,  from  the  begin- 
ning, have  promoted  and  sustained 
education. 
For  many  years  the  Church  w^as 
on  the  frontier  where  there  were  no 
schools  other  than  its  own.  Begin- 
ning in  1831,  when  \\^illiam  W. 
Phelps  was  called  b\-  re\elation  to 
assist  '\  .  .  Oliver  Cowdery  to  do  the 
work  of  printing,  and  of  selecting 
and  writing  books  for  schools  .  .  . 
that  little  children  also  may  receive 
instruction  ..."  (D  &  C  55:4),  the 
Church  embarked  upon  a  program 
of  elementary  education.  Even  as 
books  were  being  prepared,  parents 
and  guardians  were  urged  not  to 
wait,  but  to  go  forward  with  the 
teaching  of  their  children. 
If  children  are  to  be  brought  up  in  the 
way  they  should  go,  to  be  good  citizens 
here,  and  happy  hereafter,  they  must  be 
taught  [said  the  T'lmts  and  Seasons  in 
January  1842I.  It  is  idle  to  suppose  that 
children  will  grow  up  good,  while  surround- 
ed with  wickedness,  without  culti\ation. 
It  is  folly  to  suppose  that  they  can  become 
learned  without  education.  In  order  to 
do  this  as  it  should  be,  it  is  neccssarv  that 
children  should  be  taught  in  the  rudiments 
of  common  learning  out  of  the  best  books. 
As  early  as  1832,  the  saints  were 
developing  schools  in  far-off  Mis- 
souri. According  to  the  Kansas  City 
Jounul  Post  of  March  4,  1923: 
The  first  school  established  within  the 
present  limits  of  Kansas  City  .  .  .  was 
founded  by  the  Mormon  Prophet,  Joseph 
Smith,  in  1832,  in  what  now  is  Troost 
Park  Lake,  a  site  12  Yi  miles  west  of  In- 
dependence (Berrett  and  Burton,  Read- 
ings in  L.  D.  S.  Church  History,  I,  page 
224). 
Nor  were  their  efforts  confined  to 
elementarv  education.  ''Kirtland 
High  School  is  taught  in  the  attic 
story"  of  the  temple,  noted  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  1837. 
The  school  numbers  from  one  hundred 
and  thirty-fi\e  to  one  hundred  and  forty 
students,  divided  into  three  departments — 
the  classic,  where  the  languages  onl\'  are 
taught;  the  English  department,  where 
mathematics,    common    arithmetic,    geog- 
Poge  575