[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages — ". . . I Will Bless All Those Who Labor in My Vineyard With a Mighty Blessing . . ." Christine H. Robinson]
Recently,  two  sisters,  visiting  the 
familv  homestead,  stood  on  the  rim 
of  a  desert  hill  and  saw  remnants  of 
their  grandmother's  cabin,  pieces  of 
her  stove,  the  frame  of  an  old  clock. 
They  recalled  the  days  when  the 
grandmother  was  young  and  sup- 
ported her  family  by  wresting  a 
living  from  the  barren  earth.  The 
sisters  had  never  known  hunger  for 
food,  but  sorrows  and  disappoint- 
ments had  tried  their  spirits.  One 
of  them  found  a  battered  tin  plate 
and  held  it  in  her  hand,  and  said, 
''There  was  courage  on  this  hill  and 
Page  596 
that  courage  is  in  the  line  of  our 
ancestry.  It  is  the  family  pattern." 
A  gra-ndfather  who  had  spent  his 
life  in  labor  and  sacrifice  and  love 
for  his  familv  came  near  to  the  time 
of  his  farewell  days.  He  thought  of 
his  sixteen-year-old  granddaughter 
and  wrote  her  a  letter  proffering  a 
"Grandfather's  Blessing."  He  spoke 
of  the  Bible  as  a  guide,  of  the  light 
of  the  gospel,  of  continuity  of  the 
family  in  the  "mansions  of  eternity." 
The  letter  closed  with  a  blessing: 
And  in  that  future  clay, 
When  my  girl  is  a  woman  grown 
And  the  worries  of  life  surround  her, 
May  Grandpa's  prayers  be  known. 
With  much  to  give  of  spiritual 
wealth,  grandparents  are  a  blessing 
to  their  posterity.  It  should  be  re- 
membered that  they  also  have  needs 
—sometimes  material  needs  —  but 
always  the  need  for  companionship 
and  love.  In  the  gospel  plan,  it  is 
the  responsibility  of  families  to  pro- 
vide for  their  own  in  every  possible 
way. 
A  grandson  took  his  aged  grand- 
father to  a  store  to  buy  him  a  new 
suit.  The  grandfather  expressed  his 
hesitancy  in  accepting  such  a  gift 
and  said  that  since  this  would  prob- 
ably be  the  only  suit  he  would  ever 
need,  that  it  should  be  inexpensive, 
but  the  grandson  said,  "If  this  is  to 
be  your  last  suit,  then  it  must  be 
the  finest  one  you  have  ever  had."