[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
[Work Meeting — Managerial Responsibilities of the Homemaker Vesta Barnett]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
625 
Questions  for  Discussion 
1.  Refer  to  Section  6:14-18,  22-24,  ^^ 
an  example  of  how  the  Lord  gave  Ohver 
Cowdcry  a  testimony  of  the  work  which 
Joseph  Smith  was  to  perform.  How  do 
verses  3  of  Section  15  and  16  fit  into 
this  same  pattern? 
2.  In  what  way  do  Sections  15  and  16 
give  one  a  better  understanding  of  the 
importance   of  missionary  work? 
3.  From  the  first  three  \erses  of  Sec- 
tion 18  answer  this  question:  If  a  per- 
son has  a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  what 
should  be  expected  of  him? 
4.  Why  do  you  belie\e  our  missionary 
system  is  unique? 
5.  Give  examples  of  men  in  the  scrip- 
tures who  ha\e  been  great  missionaries. 
Name  some  in  our  own  dispensation. 
What  reasons  may  be  given  for  the  great 
work   performed   by   these   missionaries? 
6.  A  religious  leader  not  of  the  Church 
said  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  people  have 
"an  abounding  sense  of  the  dignity  and 
importance  of  man."  How  would  you 
justify  this  belief? 
7.  Discuss:  The  Twelve  Apostles  were 
to  be  known  by  their  desires  and  their 
works. 
Visiting  cJeacher    1 1  Lessages  — 
Truths  to  Live  By  From  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Message  11—".  .  .  I  Will  Bless  All  Those  Who  Labor  in  My  Vineyard 
With  a  Mighty  Blessing  .  .  /'  (D.  &  C.  21:9). 
Chiistine  H.  Rohinson 
For  Tuesday,  December  2,  1958 
Objective:  To  show  how  we  can  labor  in  the  Lord's  vineyard  and  qualify  for  a 
mighty  blessing. 
WORKING  in  the  Lord's  vine- 
yard is  one  of  life's  choice  ex- 
periences. This  work  brings  rich 
blessings  both  to  those  who  do  the 
work  and  to  those  who  benefit  by 
the  labor.  The  promise  contained 
in  this  message  in  The  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  (21:9)  emphasizes  the 
fact  that  a  mighty  blessing  comes  to 
those  who  perform  the  work.  To 
qualify  for  these  blessings  it  is  im- 
portant that  we  understand  what  the 
Lord  means  when  he  refers  to  labor- 
ing in  his  vineyard,  and  what  bless- 
ings may  be  expected  from  this 
promise. 
The  term  labor  in  the  sense  given 
in  the  quotation  signifies  action.  It 
means  efficient  expenditure  of  time 
and  energy  in  useful  service  for 
others.  When  we  labor  we  do  not 
spend  our  time  in  passive  well-wish- 
ing. We  back  up  our  well-wishing 
with  well-doing.  We  substitute  con- 
crete deeds  for  good  intentions. 
Jesus  and  his  apostles  repeatedly 
emphasized  the  fact  that  the  gos- 
pel is  one  of  work  and  service.  To 
gain  blessings,  we  must  be  ''.  .  .  do- 
ers of  the  word,  and  not  hearers 
only  .  .  ."  (James  1:22). 
The  Lord's  \ineyard  is  defined  as 
a  field  of  ''spiritual  endeavor." 
When  we  are  actively  engaged  in 
selfless  service  to  others,  we  are  help- 
ing to  build  the  Lord's  kingdom  on

626 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1958 
earth  and,  as  such,  are  working  in 
hfe's  most  important  spiritual  en- 
deavor. 
We  can  labor  in  the  Lord's  vine- 
yard in  various  ways.  One  way  is 
to  accept  willingly  and  humbly  any 
calling  requested  of  us  in  the 
Church.  Church  work,  funda- 
mentally, involves  service  to  others. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  direct  ways 
of  laboring  in  the  Lord's  vineyard. 
However,  there  are  many  other 
ways  not  directly  connected  with 
Church  assignments,  in  which  one 
can  perform  this  service.  One  of 
the  most  blessed  of  these  is  that  un- 
selfish human  service  which  springs 
from  the  heart  and  consists  of  doing 
all  we  can  to  help  ease  others'  burd- 
ens and  to  try  and  bring  happiness 
into  their  lives.  This  labor  consists 
in  following  the  admonition  of 
James,  ".  .  .  To  visit  the  fatherless 
and  widows  in  their  affliction  .  .  ." 
(James  1:27).  It  involves  giving 
willingly  and  freely  of  ourselves 
without  any  thought  of  reward,  hon- 
or, or  glory.  James  Russell  Lowell 
beautifully  expressed  this  thought 
in  his  "Vision  of  Sir  Launfal,"  as 
follows : 
Not  what  we  give,  but  what  we  share, 
For  the  gift  without  the  giver  is  bare; 
Who  gives  himself,  with   his  alms   feeds 
three. 
Himself,  his  hungering  neighbor,  and  me. 
One  of  the  great  truths  associated 
with  service  performed  for  others 
is  that  enduring  and  richly  satisfy- 
ing blessings  are  showered  upon  the 
givers.  A  prominent  church  man 
tells  of  the  occasion  when  he  was 
bedfast  for  several  weeks.  During 
this  period  a  busy  friend,  active  in 
business  and  civic  affairs,  visited  him 
regularly  once  each  week  and  spent 
an  hour  reading  to  him  from  an  in- 
spirational book.  These  friendly 
visits  gave  the  man  who  was  ill 
something  concrete  and  uplifting  to 
look  forward  to,  and  did  much  to 
raise  his  spirits  and  to  help  restore 
him  more  quickly  to  full  health. 
The  bedridden  friend  never  forgot 
those  kind  acts.  Years  later,  when 
he  was  again  expressing  his  apprecia- 
tion for  them,  the  visitor  remarked 
that  he  was  the  one  who  had  been 
really  blessed.    He  said: 
At  that  time  I  was  going  through  a 
particulady  trying  period  in  my  business. 
The  book  which  I  read  to  you  gave  much 
needed  repose  and  refreshment  to  my  soul. 
When  I  returned  to  my  business,  after 
those  visits,  I  was  able  to  think  more 
clearly,  and  to  approach  my  work  with 
renewed  vigor.  Problems  seemed  to  melt 
away  and  I  felt  an  inner  sense  of  content- 
ment and  happiness  which  sustained  me 
through  the  week.  I  was  the  one  who 
was  truly  blessed. 
To  bless,  according  to  one  defini- 
tion, means  to  make  happy,  to 
guard,  keep,  and  protect.  One  of 
the  Lord's  mighty  blessings  then 
means  to  bestow  great  and  lasting 
happiness.  It  means  that  the  Lord 
will  encircle  us  with  his  secure,  pro- 
tecting care.  He  will  grant  us  con- 
tentment and  peace  of  mind.  This 
mighty  blessing  is  the  inevitable  re- 
ward of  those  who  hearken  to  the 
Savior's  teachings  and  who  do  his 
will  by  losing  themselves  in  the  serv- 
ice of  others.  The  Savior  has  said: 
".  .  .  he  who  doeth  the  works  of 
righteousness  shall  receive  his  re- 
ward ..."  (D  C  59:23).  What 
a  choice  reward  it  is  to  have  the 
true,  soul-satisfying  happiness  which 
comes  when  we  diligently  and 
wholeheartedly  labor  in  the  Lord's 
vineyard.

vi/ork    1 1  ieeting — Managing  a  Home 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Discussion  3— Managerial  Responsibilities  of  the  Homennaker 
Vesta  Barnett 
For  Tuesday,  December  9,  1958 
Objective:     To  point  out  some  of  the  major  responsibilities  in  managing  a  home. 
\JJ^  often  hear  the  statement:  ''A 
man  can  work  from  sun  to  sun, 
but  a  woman's  work  is  never  done." 
The  greatest  theatrical  role  played 
by  the  greatest  theatrical  actress,  in 
the  greatest  theatrical  play,  cannot 
compare  in  importance  to  the  role 
pla\ed  by  the  homemaker  who  has 
as  her  most  valued  goal  happiness 
for  e\erv  member  of  her  family. 
The  responsibilities  she  must  as- 
sume are  many  and  varied.  Follow- 
ing are  some  of  the  important  ones: 
1.  Guiding  the  Faiuih  Living  To- 
ward a  Proper  Development  oi 
Family  Life.  From  infancy  children 
begin  to  form  attitudes  and  con- 
cepts. If  they  are  to  grow  to  ma- 
turity with  a  wholesome  attitude  to- 
ward family  life  they  should  be  ex- 
posed to  rich,  rewarding  experiences 
within  their  own  family  circle  to 
make  them  know  life  is  good.  The 
we,  the  ours,  the  us  feeling  will  be- 
come so  much  a  part  of  their  every- 
day living  that  pride  in  family  and 
joy  in  relationship  will  ever  be  pres- 
ent. 
2.  Guiding  Toward  Wholesome 
and  Satisfying  Personal  Relation- 
ships. Every  homemaker  should 
recognize  that  no  two  individuals 
are  exactly  alike,  thus  her  role  is  a 
complicated  one.  She  should  under- 
stand each  member  of  her  family  as 
a  distinct,  unique  individual,  and 
gain  the  insight  necessary  to  under- 
stand why  Mary  and  Ruth  react  so 
differently  to  the  same  sitation.  In- 
dividual needs  should  be  recognized 
and  met,  if  each  member  of  the 
family  is  to  grow  physically,  men- 
tally, spiritually  and  emotionally  to
