[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty]
574  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1958 
opportunities  for  missionary  work,  especially  among  local  and  national 
government  officials.  As  an  illustration,  at  the  dedication  of  the  temple 
and  college  in  New  Zealand,  in  addition  to  the  hundreds  of  interested  peo- 
ple who  were  in  attendance,  there  were  present  the  Prime  Minister,  Mr. 
Nash;  member  of  Parliament,  Dame  Hilda  Ross;  Superintendent  of  Edu- 
cation, Mr.  L.  L.  F.  Ensor,  and  other  officials.  They  spoke  at  the  college 
exercises,  and  before  the  end  of  their  visit  with  President  McKav  and 
others  of  his  party,  became  real  friends,  as  the  New  Zealand  papers  and 
Associated  Press  reports  and  photographs  attested. 
At  the  dedication  of  the  chapel  at  Suva  there  were  present  the  Gov- 
ernor and  Lady  Garvey,  the  Mayor  and  Mrs.  A.  D.  Leys,  the  Colonial  Secre- 
tary, Mr.  P.  D.  MacDonald,  and  others  with,  the  same  resulting  friendly 
relations  established.  Everywhere,  there  were  prejudices  allayed  and  ex- 
pressions of  good  will  toward  the  Church  and  our  Country.  These 
experiences  can  be  multiplied  by  every  visit  of  President  McKay  here  and 
abroad,  during  the  past  sixty-one  active,  busy  years  of  his  devotion  to  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Another  phase  of  his  effective  missionary  work  is  accomplished  in 
his  office  in  Salt  Lake  City.  When  at  home,  he  arrives  at  the  Church 
office  building  never  later  than  seven  a.m.  in  order  to  perform  his  regular 
strenuous  daily  duties,  so  there  will  be  time  during  the  day  for  meetings, 
conferences  with  groups  and  individuals,  and  almost  daily  calls  from  out-of- 
State  visitors. 
Of  the  latter,  whether  they  are  political  leaders,  heads  of  national 
unions,  foreign  representatives,  officials  of  other  churches,  governors  of 
states,  newspaper  groups  from  Russia  or  other  countries,  or  whoever  the 
guests  may  be,  they  are  received  with  the  same  unhurried  courtesy  extended 
always  by  this  wonderful  President.  Invariably,  they  leave  with  a  kindly 
feeling  toward  the  Church  and  a  greater  respect  for  its  leadership.  As  a 
representative  of  this  Country  to  other  lands,  his  influence  has  been  felt 
and  appreciated  by  telegrams,  calls,  and  written  communications  as  ex- 
pressed in  the  following  extracts: 
In  a  letter  from  Honorable  John  Foster  Dulles,  Secretary  of  State,
