[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
WEST SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION HOME East Los Angeles, California THE WEST SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION 585 PuGtbaxapl festned by McNone N. Perry SCENE IN OLVERA STREET, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA The city of Los Angeles was founded in 1781 by a group of cleven familics under the leadership of Governor Felipe de Neve. Olvera Street is the oldest thoroughfare in the city. The iron caldron at the right was used for making tallow; in the left foreground may be seen the historic marker; and just behind the marker is an old ox-cart with wooden wheels. The bells (in the center of the picture, at the top) were made in 1690 and later transported to Los Angeles. During the early part of March, 1958, Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, visited the new West Spanish-American Mission. He was accompanied by Mrs. Kimball, and they, with President and Mrs. Perry, made a tour of the mission. The actual membership of the new mission has not yet been ascertained, but on May 31, 1958, there were 28 full-time missionaries laboring under the direction of President Perry. McNone N. Perry presides over the West Spanish-American Mission Relief Society. q /\ ™ ' -# RES Ace Y7 TYPICAL PURITAN CLOTHING Illustrated are a laced bodice (bodies) and a cloak with hood. A child, wearing a dress with hanging sleeve, stands by the grandmother. &veryday Life in Colonial New &ngland (1620-1781 ) Part II. Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Illustrations by Virginia Sargent Of Clothes I' would be contrary to fact to I visualize the Puritans wearing only dark, somber clothing. During the first years of settlement their clothing was sober and somewhat restrained, with practically no ornamentation. But as trade with England increased, those who could afford it followed the styles of London both in color and design. 'Though working clothes were often of unPage 586 dyed homespun woolen, normally the Puritans wore bright colors. Russet, gray, green, and dark blue were worn, but we must not forget that William Brewster of Plymouth had coats of purple and blue and a green waistcoat, and even Governor Bradford left a red waistcoat with silver buttons and a 'Turkey-red grogram suit.