[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Eliza | Author: Growing]
606 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1958 
To  slip-stitch  a  hem  in  place,  hold 
the  hem  back  so  that  the  under  side 
of  the  turned  edge  stands  slightly 
above  the  fold  of  the  garment.  Using 
a  fine  needle  and  single  thread,  catch 
a  single  yarn  of  the  garment  and  a 
small  stitch  in  the  tape.  Repeat 
every  y»  inch.  The  long  stitches  or 
thread  floats  will  fall  underneath  the 
tape  and  thus  be  concealed  from  the 
outside.  There  will  be  little  chance 
of  catching  or  breaking  the  line  of 
hem  stitching  when  the  garment  is 
worn  or  laundered. 
On  tailored  skirts  and  jackets  of 
heavier  material,  the  hem  will  show 
less  from  the  outside,  if  its  edge  is 
bound  as  you  bind  a  seam.  The 
underneath  side  is  then  slip-stitched 
into  position  by  the  above  method. 
All  hems  are  more  serviceable  if 
they  are  stitched  in  place  by  slip- 
stitching  that  is  concealed. 
ibliza   Uj  rock  bank  uiales  Specializes  in 
QJ lower  (growing 
ELIZA  Brockbank  Hales  of  Spanish  Fork,  Utah,  is  an  eighty-nine  year  old  garden 
hobbyist.  From  the  first  blossoms  of  snowdrops,  crocuses,  and  daffodils  until 
November  frost,  Mrs.  Hales  has  continuous  bloom  in  her  large  garden.  She  gives  bouquets, 
slips,  seeds,  and  cuttings  to  neighbors  and  friends.  Many  gardens  in  all  parts  of  Utah 
have  been  made  beautiful  with  "starts"  from  the  Hales'  flowers.  She  exhibits  her  choice 
blossoms  at  fairs  and  flower  shows  and  has  won  many  avv'ards  for  the  excellence  of  her 
displays. 
In  addition  to  her  gardening  hobby,  Mrs.  Hales  makes  lovely  handicraft  articles 
of  many  varieties.  Her  letter-writing  hobby  has  brought  comfort  and  joy  to  hundreds 
of  friends  and  relatives  who  have  been  inspired  by  her  faith  and  her  buoyant  philosophy 
of  life. 
She  has  been  a  Relief  Society  worker  in  executi\'e  and  teaching  capacities  for  sixty-