[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 584 Everyday Life in Colonial New England — Part II Alberta H. Christensen]
EVERYDAY  LIFE  IN  COLONIAL  NEW  ENGLAND 
587 
makes  possible  some  generalizations: 
There  were  jerkins  and  donblets 
of  leather  for  men;  cloaks  and  the 
smocklike  cassock  (with  sleeves)  to 
be  worn  in  cold  weather.  Cloaks, 
sometimes  with  hoods,  worn  by 
both  men  and  women,  were  often 
of  scarlet  color.  Baggy  leather 
breeches,  with  knitted  wool  or  tail- 
ored cloth  stockings,  were  worn  in 
early  Salem  days.  In  fact,  leather 
breeches  continued  to  be  worn  by 
farmers  and  working  men  until  the 
beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century. 
Buttons,  considered  a  vanity,  were 
taboo  the  first  few  years,  but  before 
long  there  were  buttons  galore. 
Fastening  was  done  by  means  of 
hooks  and  eyes,  loops,  or  by  points 
(short  strings  or  tapes  for  tying). 
Women's  skirts  were  known  as 
"petticoats,"  of  which  several  might 
be  worn  at  a  time.  The  feminine 
doublet  of  1630  was  replaced  by  the 
front-and-back  laced  bodice  called  a 
''pair  of  bodies."  It  is  interesting  to 
see  how  some  standard  clothing 
articles  have  changed  in  name.  A 
petticoat  was  called  a  shift;  a  loung- 
ing robe  was  a  nightgown;  a  night- 
gown was  known  as  a  rail;  house 
slippers  were  slip  shoes  or  slips. 
Anyone  wearing  them  out  of  doors 
might  appropriately  be  called  ''slip- 
shod." Clogs  with  wooden  soles,  a 
strap  over  the  instep,  were  to  be 
worn  over  the  shoes  when  walking 
through  the  mud,  which  was  often. 
Children  were  dressed  as  their  par- 
ents after  about  six  years  of  age. 
"Hanging  sleeves"  (see  illustra- 
tion) attached  at  the  shoulders  of 
children's  clothing,  were  of  assist- 
ance in  teaching  a  child  to  walk,  and 
their  use  beyond  this  need  was 
somewhat  similar  to  the  "toddler's 
leash"  of  today. 
Aversion  to  men  wearing  their 
hair  long  earned  for  the  English 
Puritans  the  name  of  Round  Heads, 
but  many  Puritans  in  England  and 
in  the  colonics  did  have  long  hair. 
By  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury a  completely  new  vogue  in 
masculine  hair  style  was  being  re- 
sisted by  many  and  called  an 
"abomination"  by  that  staunch  yet 
hearty  New  Englander  Samuel  Sew- 
all.  But  e\cntually  many  who  had 
condemned  the  wearing  of  wigs  suc- 
cumbed to  that  prevailing  fashion. 
A  portrait  of  one  of  those  succumb- 
ing males  shows  him  "looking  out 
from  an  cnxeloping  mass  of  curled 
white  locks,  as  if  some  one  had 
poured  a  bushel  of  cotton  over  his 
head." 
The  women,  being  human,  and 
interested  in  fashion  and  fabrics, 
wore  fine  linens,  silk,  and  lace.  Had 
it  been  the  prevailing  mode,  they, 
too,  might  have  worn  the  slender 
sheath  or  the  modern  chemise. 
Of  Conimunitv  and  Home 
The  village  was  the  basis  for  re- 
ligious, social,  and  political  life  in 
early  New  England.  It  was  a  unit 
of  life,  small,  concentrated  and  iso- 
lated; so  concentrated  and  intimate 
that  people  of  the  village  knew  each 
other's  virtues  and  weaknesses:  how 
many  cloaks  goodx^ife  Bachiler 
owned,  how  many  feather  beds  she 
inherited  from  her  grandfather,  and 
how  much  pewter  she  had  in  her 
kitchen. 
The  land  was  divided  into  town- 
ships and  subdivided  into  farms  or 
"freeholds."  In  Plymouth  they  tried 
holding  land  in  common.  The 
church  was  the  nucleus  and  the 
town  meeting  was  instituted  as  a 
governing  body.    Until  after  Cover-

588 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1958 
nor  Bradford's  death,  neither  church 
membership  nor  ownership  of  land 
were  requirements  for  voting.  In  the 
Bay  Colony  every  voter  had  an  equal 
voice  in  the  meeting,  but  to  vote 
one  had  to  be  a  church  member  and 
to  own  land.  The  church  was  the 
center  of  community  life,  and  loss 
of  church  membership  meant  loss  of 
the  vote.  An  open  lot,  called  the 
''common"  was  set  aside  as  common 
property  to  be  used  by  any  towns- 
man for  grazing  of  his  livestock. 
In  an  attempt  to  maintain  civic 
and  moral  standards,  the  Puritans 
legislated  against  many  offenses. 
Recall  pictures  of  persons  being  pub- 
licly punished  in  the  stock  or  pillory 
with  a  sign  hung  on  them  to  indi- 
cate the  nature  of  their  offense. 
Examples  are  the  ''B"  for  blasphem- 
er or  ''D"  for  drunkard.  Humilia- 
tion was  the  basis  for  punishment. 
More  serious  offenses  brought  great- 
er punishment,  and  opposition  to 
established  religious  views  might 
even  bring  banishment,  as  Roger 
Williams  and  Anne  Hutchinson  dis- 
covered. 
The  average  age  for  first  marriages 
in  early  New  England  was  not  very 
different  from  that  of  today.  Girls 
were  seldom  married  younger  than 
eighteen,  often  after  twenty  or 
twenty-one.  Men  were  usually 
somewhat  older.  Bachelors  were 
uncommon.  The  conclusion  that 
Puritans  did  not  have  large  families 
is  probably  due  to  the  high  death 
rate  which  brought  fewer  children 
to  maturity.  Only  six  of  Samuel 
SewalFs  fourteen  children  lived  to 
^  mature  age;  only  three  survived 
him.  Since  physicians  were  scarce, 
the  colonists  were  more  dependent 
upon  their  knowledge  of  herbs  and 
''simples"  than  we  realize.  The  local 
minister  often  served  as  town  phy- 
sician, while  midwives  attended  the 
lying  in.  The  marriage  ceremony 
was  regarded  as  a  civil  and  not  a 
religious  rite;  banns  were  published, 
and  shortly  after,  the  young  couple 
appeared  before  the  magistrate. 
As  early  as  1642  a  law  was  passed 
requiring  all  parents  to  teach  their 
children  to  read  as  well  as  to  learn