President Franklin D. Roosevelt Passes PRESIDENT Franklin Delano Roosevelt died suddenly at Warm Springs, Georgia, on Thursday, April 12, 1945. He had entered upon his fourth term as President of the United States in January 1945. We reprint the statement issued by the First Presidency following his death: The President has gone. His passing will be mourned by many millions, many of whom have regarded his course as divinely inspired. He has lived in, indeed has been himself a part of, one of the great crises of the world's history, during which opposing political and economic ideologies have striven for mastery. History will give him his proper place and his due measure of greatness. He had devoted, almost fanatical friends, and bitter, implacable enemies, but all will grant him the need of enthusiasm for his policies, determination for their carrying out, and the highest courage in the presence of physical handicaps of which he rarely spoke and which he brought into subjection to an all but indomitable will. He, in common with all mankind, has this great blessing: he will be judged righteously by the Lord and rewarded for the good he accomplished. We extend our deepest sympathy to his bereaved loved ones and friends. April 12, 1945 Vice-President Harry S. Truman was sworn in as President of the United States by Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone in the White House at 7:08 on the evening of the day President Roosevelt died. Contest Announcements 1945 THE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest 334 THE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other.
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
THE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.)
The prize Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1945. Three prizes will be awarded as follows:
First prize .........$20 Second prize ........$15 Third prize .........$10
Prize poems will be published in the January 1946 issue of ThePrize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.
Rules for the Contest:
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board, and employees of the Relief Society General Board.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by one contestant.
3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible, where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of
4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem.
6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying:
a. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work.
b. That it has never been published.
c. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication.
d. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.
10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1945.
11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 E. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.