Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, Former General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. RELIEF SOCIETY AND CHURCH WELFARE SEWING Bear River Stake (Utah) MAUDE O. COOK, president of this stake Relef Society, wrote in July 1944: "We have completed and sent to the Northern Utah Region 17 layettes, 162 boys' shirts, 23 ladies' dresses and housecoats, 24 children's dresses, 33 ladies' aprons, 33 panties, 274 dish towels, 120 hand-hemmed handkerchiefs, 155 pillow slips, 13 sheets, and we have on hand finished or partly so 33 women's nightgowns, 19 ladies' slips, 13 pairs of men's pajamas, and 50 pillowslips. Accompanying is a photo of the Tremonton Second Ward Relief Society work meeting held the second Tuesday of June. The meeting began at 9 a. M. And continued until 5 P. M.; dinner was served at noon. Eighty-three women were present. They made 28 women's nightgowns for the welfare project, and for the ward a number of aprons for a contemplated bazaar, finished 2 layettes, 2 quilts, and a number of dish towels, and cut and sewed 20 pounds of rags for rugs. A similar meeting was held by the Garland Relief Society during the month of May at which 60 women were present." All-day work meeting held June 13, 1944, by the Tremonton Second Ward, Bear River Stake. Page  Part of the 1944 Church Welfare clothing and bedding assignment filled by the Wells Stake Relief Society and exhibited July 14, 1944. In the picture are the stake Relief Society executive officers under whose direction this assignment was filled; left to right: Lorena W. Anderson, then counselor in charge of work and now president; Amy B. Towler, retiring president; Leone G. Layton, counselor who in June had been appointed to the General Board of Relief Society; and Cacia Margetts, secretary-treasurer, retained by the new president. Picture of another part of this stake's assignment appeared in the Magazine for March 1945, page 130, as an illustration for the article "The Relief Society in Church Welfare" by Elder Marion G. Romney, Assistant Managing Director of the General Church Welfare Committee. Wells Stake (Utah) LORENA W. ANDERSON, president of Wells Stake Relief Society, wrote last July of the 1944 welfare sewing assignment which was completed while she was serving as counselor in charge of work, under direction of Amy B. Towler, then president. "When we received this assignment it seemed almost an impossibility to fill it under war conditions. We considered it a very large order, but we divided it and gave each one of our eight wards an equal amount. Our loyal, faithful ward presidents accepted their quota in the proper spirit, and with their Relief Society members soon were busy and very interested. 'The layettes were daintily handmade, trimmed with silk crochet edgings, laces, and buttons which could not be purchased today but which were furnished by the sisters. Our children's dresses were an expression of individual style and trim, which made them very attractive. Our misses' and women's dresses were also individually patterned and well made. All our purchased materials were as good as the market affords today, including sheets, pillow cases, and dish towels. "In unity there is strength. Our sisters were united and willing to work many extra days, and did so with a spirit of love and co-operation, with the feeling that 'it is better to give than to receive.? NOTES FROM THE FIELD 377 A few of the 1200 coats and jackets for boys and girls being made from used coats by the Relief Societies of the Northern Utah Region as a part of the 1945 clothing assignment of the Church Welfare Program. This project is under direction of Reka Parker, chairman of the women's work directors of this Region and counselor in charge of work in the South Ogden Stake Relief Society. In the picture are Orval Dean, Regional Coordinator, and Pearl McArthur who receives the finished clothing at the storehouse.  Never before in our stake has there been greater enthusiasm for the work meeting. This we attribute to the joy the women have received in contributing to the great Church Welfare Program." Northern Utah Region (Ogden) REKA PARKER, chairman of the women's work directors of this Church Welfare region, and counselor in charge of work in the South Ogden Stake Relief Society, reported April 1, 1945: "One of the 1945 Church Welfare clothing assignments for the Northern Utah Region is the making of 1200 coats and jackets from old used coats. 'The used coats are procured from the Deseret Industries in Ogden and Salt Lake City. Women from the Region carefully examine and select the coats to be used. The coats are cleaned at the Deseret Industries, and upon their return are sorted again according to sizes and styles, counted, and distributed to the stakes and wards for ripping apart and pressing, ready for cutting. In the Northern Utah Region there are 15 stakes with 128 wards, so the coats are distributed in proportion to the assignment of each stake which is governed by its population. "Uniform styles and patterns have been selected for boys' and girls' coats and jackets, and each stake is assigned a large and a small size to make for either a boy or a girl. Victory quilt of red, white, and blue percale, made by Sadie Jones, chairman of the quilting committee in the Provo First Ward Relief Society, Provo Stake. (Picture submitted by Inez B. Allred, president of Provo Stake Relief Society.) "Brother John Christiansen, a well-known tailor with 37 years of experience, kindly consented to give some demonstrations and a set of simplified instructions on the cutting and making of melton jackets to the stake Relief Society women's work directors. Later on. Brother Christiansen gave a demonstration on the lining and padding of coats for girls. Two demonstrations have been held, attended by Relief Society women from the distant Lyman and Woodruff stakes as well as the other stakes of the Region. One little woman waited in a bus depot until 3 A. M. Rather than leave by an earlier bus before the demonstration was over. Two other women were given beds in the storehouse so that they might remain to see all of the demonstration. "These stake leaders in turn held like demonstrations for their ward women's work directors. The ward leaders were asked to instruct accordingly the women who did the cutting and sewing. Written instructions have been prepared by Louisa T. Scoffield, counselor in the Weber Stake Relief Society, and two copies given to every ward women's work director in the Region. "Seven hundred of these coats are now distributed. Many are finished and the rest in preparation for cutting and sewing. Women have taken many of the light-colored ones home, ripped them apart and laundered them in mild soap flakes, which has greatly improved their appearance. "All buttons, linings, and inter-linings are saved and used again if possible. Binding tape, thread, and some new linings are furnished by the Regional Welfare Committee." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 379 The stake Relief Society presidency and women of the Springdale Ward taking their turn at the lovely new sewing room on the second floor of the Burley Stake storehouse. Agnes C. Hoggan, stake Relief Society president, reports that this sewing room was completed last August and has been in operation since then. A ward is assigned to sew here each Friday afternoon, cleaning, renovating, and remodeling used clothing. Members of the Richmond Ward Relief Society, Oakland Stake, working on sewing for Oak Knoll Hospital, Standing, left to right: Laura Horn, Edna Harris, secretary; Gladys Stayner, Jessie Bradeson, Hazel Hunt and nephew, Mamie Fuller, Alvira Cope-land, Augusta Morley, Addie Stoddard, sewing supervisor; Iris Smith, counselor; Annie Edwards. Seated, left to right: Lileth Jaynes and daughter Betty, Hattie Nichlos, Marie Rasmussen, Virgie Stanger, president, who submitted the picture; Jennie Scott, Eleanor McMillian, Hilda Cheek, Merl Asay, Thelma Patrick, Betty Faulkner and daughter. Officers of the Boise First Ward Relief Society with the two beautiful satin quilts (one tomato red and one a soft shade of green) which were featured at the bazaar held November 7, 1944. At the left are Counselors Margaret Hansen and Norma Johnson; President Naomi Ruud, center; and Secretary Treasurer Thora Rawson, right. Boise Stake (Idaho) OFFICERS of the Boise First Ward Relief Society submitted the following account of their very successful bazaar: "The Relief Society bazaar of the Boise First Ward was held December 7, 1944 in the ward recreation hall with much enthusiasm and success. Eight months previous, at the April work meeting, the members unanimously voted in favor of having an outstanding event sometime in the late fall and they co-operated wholeheartedly toward this end during the several months of preparation. Committees were appointed by the executives for the following booths: Art work?which included a display of pillow cases, luncheon sets, tea towels, crocheted articles, etc. Apron?Over one hundred aprons were made by the members for this booth. Baby?'This booth consisted of articles for baby layette, including two satin quilts. Children's pajamas and dresses, stuffed animals and dolls were also on display. Quilt?Twelve quilts were made by the quilt committee, including two beautiful satin quilts. Cake?Fifty cakes were donated and sold at this booth. Candy?One hundred and twenty pounds of candy were made by a special candy committee. The sugar was donated in small quantities by the sisters of the ward. "Chili was sold at the end of the evening after a floor show presented by the dancing school was enjoyed by the 800 people in attendance. "Articles and materials were NOTES FROM THE FIELD 381 purchased by the Society and were made up by the members. "Proceeds from the sale of the many fine articles on display amounted to approximately $700." Ensign Stake (Utah) LEONE O. JACOBS, counselor in the Ensign Stake Relief Society, of which Alice B. Steinicke is president, wrote in November 1944: "For several years since the division of the ward, the South 18th Ward Relief Society had been in need of additional storage space. One small closet was the only available nook for the numerous and varied supplies. During 1942, first-aid kits and emergency supplies were required to be on hand in every ward, in case of disaster. In 1943 came the Church Welfare bedding project which called for huge bundles of cotton and wool batts, more quilt frames, and materials. Confusion and disorder reigned in the closet. It was impossible to know where each article was and to keep it accessible. If quilt blocks, for example, were wanted, it might take half an hour fumbling through piles of materials, stepping over sewing machines and other equipment, to find them. "The Bishop was consulted and he and the Relief Society presidency (Sisters Zilpha Bramwell, Lorene Chamberlain, and Agnes Manookin) toured the rooms and hallways adjacent to Relief Society quarters with a view to adding another closet. Several places were discussed and rejected because of price or unsuitability. Vilate R. Ivins, secretary of the South 20th Ward Relief Society, Ensign Stake, is shown at the cupboard which she had built in the Relief Society room as a memorial to her mother, Emma P. Romney, now passed away, who had served as a president of the old Twentieth Ward Relief Society. Picture taken in 1944. Sister Ivins says: "The cupboard is 8 1/2 feet high, 16 feet long, and 22 inches deep. It has 103 feet of shelf space, 20 inches deep. The long shelves are 11 inches apart. We were told not to put the shelves too far apart. It is better to have more shelves than to overload them. "The cupboard adds to the beauty of the room. The room is also used as a banquet room so the Bishop was fearful at first that it might be in the way, but it is not. After two years of use, we find it is adequate in every detail." Storage Cupboards, South 18th Ward Relief Society, Ensign Stake. Inset shows lid to upper section where quilt frames and first-aid splints and stretchers are stored. Finally, Sister Chamberlain, welfare counselor, conceived the idea of building cabinets under the windows along the east wall of the Relief Society room. The windows are high above the floor. This suggestion seemed very practical and everyone agreed to it. Plans were drawn and not many weeks passed before the cupboards were completed. Not only do they adequately solve the storage problem, but they add charm and individuality to the room. The maple finish of the cabinets matches the woodwork, showing the beautiful grain of the wood. "Not being sure that one width of the room would allow sufficient space, the cabinet was extended part way down the south wall. The top of the cabinet opens up with a lid and here are placed horizontally the quilt frames, also splints and stretchers for first-aid kit. Below are shelves and drawers to meet every demand. Attractive window curtains come just to the top of the cabinet, and potted plants, spaced at intervals, add to the general effect of the room. Such a pleasing arrangement could be adopted by other ward Relief Societies." SPECIAL ACTIVITIES North Sanpete Stake (Utah) wrote in October 1944: PEARLE M. OLSEN, president of this stake Relief Society wrote in October 1944: "For about eight years this stake of has maintained a library department. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 383 Each year seven or eight new books were added and the total circulated about among the wards of the stake. Best sellers in biography, fiction, and philosophy, constituted the library. Much good has been derived by the women of our stake from this source of reading material. A year ago we decided to expand our library and made arrangements with the bishop of Mt. Pleasant South Ward for use of a little-used room in the chapel. My husband built us several sections of open bookshelves, all movable, allowing for easy cleaning and rearrangement. Several members of the stake board cleaned the room and stained and varnished the shelves. We procured a used desk and got permission from the ward Relief Society to use a few extra chairs they had. Then we made a call for suitable books and combined those received with those we already had accumulated. We added some new ones, mostly of a theological nature, and some of the finer books of fiction, and biography. Through the years some books were lost, but at the present time we have around 150 volumes on our shelves. Included is a set of the Documentary History 01 the Church? by the Prophet Joseph Smith. There are also eight bound volumes of TheOne of our sisters contributed Magazines her mother had saved through the years, dating back to 1915, and we will have these bound. "We have found that there is a strong preference among the women of the stake for the books of a spiritual nature. Each ward has a librarian who handles the exchange of books for her ward each month when she attends stake leadership meeting, taking back to her ward those books for which the sisters have expressed preference. Last year we adopted a slogan, 'Reading as a Morale Builder.' It has been a joy to see the high type of reading ?a very great percentage the works of our Church writers?toward which our women incline. "Our library has great possibilities as a study room and source of information in our educational departments. It will take time to build it carefully toward our goal, but we are convinced it can and will be done." Maricopa Stake (Arizona) IRENE A. DUKE, stake Relief Society secretary, reports: ?The Maricopa Stake Relief Society sponsored a special testimony meeting for all women of the stake on Sunday, December 31, 1944, from 2 to 3:30 p. M. In the Mesa Second Ward chapel. "Sister Ella Bentley played soft organ music as over two hundred women assembled to worship. A poem 'Home' was read by First Counselor Vida D. Brinton. President Irene L. Brown gave a brief address of welcome and bore her testimony. Seventeen women related inspirational testimonies of faith and courage, healings and answers to prayers, expressing hope and faith in the future despite the present war-torn world. "At intervals, choice musical selections were rendered, including organ solos by Ella Bentley, ladies' trio from Tempe Ward, a Singing Mothers? chorus from Gilbert Ward, and a ladies' chorus from Mesa Fourth Ward. "This inspirational meeting brought solace and renewed courage to the women of this stake." Members of the Downey Ward Relief Society, Portneuf Stake, with the 52 Christmas boxes they packed early last October for overseas shipment to servicemen from Downey Ward. They observed a minute of silent prayer before packing the boxes. On November 21, they packed boxes for the boys stationed in the United States. Helen Hyde is president of this ward Relief Society. Picture submitted by Lila Bloxham, secretary.