The New Latter-day Saint Hymn Book Elder Tracy Y. Cannon Chairman General Music Committee ANEW hymn book, to be used in all adult meetings of the Church is in preparation by the General Music Committee in co-operation with an advisory committee from the Council of the Twelve. The new books will supersede the present Latter-day Saints Hymns and Deseret Sunday School Songs. In addition to preserving those hymns that have been found to be of permanent value to the Church, the new hymn book will include some hymns with new music settings, a number of famous hymns from worldwide sources, and some original hymns, the words and music of which will be written by present-day writers and composers. Already many local poets have graciously responded to the General Music Committee's invitation to send in hymns, and the Committee is deeply appreciative of their efforts. It is now desired that music settings be made to some of the hymns, and composers are invited by the Advisory Committee of the Council of the Twelve and the General Music Committee to send in contributions according to the following suggestions: 1. The music is to be suitable in pitch, range, singableness and dignity for use by the congregations of the Church. Page 338 2. You are invited to make a music setting for any one of the poems here printed. (Please send in only one manuscript. ) 3. Sign your manuscript with a nom de plume. Place your own name and address in a sealed envelope and write your nom de plume on the outside of the envelope. Enclose this with your manuscript. 4. Send the completed manuscript to Carol H. Cannon, Assistant Secretary, General Music Committee, 200 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 3, Utah, not later than July 1st of this year. It is hoped that all musicians of our communities, schooled in the art of composition, will respond to this invitation. Following are five hymns for which worthy music settings are desired: SEE! ALL CREATION JOINS See! All creation joins To praise the eternal God; The heav'nly hosts begin the song. And sound His name abroad. The sun with golden beams. The moon with silver rays. The starry lights and twinkling flames. Shine to their Maker's praise. He built those worlds above. And fixed their wondrous frame. By His command they stand or move, And always speak His fame. The fleecy clouds that rise. Or following show'rs, or snow, The thunder rolling round the skies, His power and glory show. THE NEW LATTER-DAY SAINT HYMN BOOK 339 The broad expanse on high. With all the heav'ns afford, The lightning's fire that streaks the sky. Unite to praise the Lord. By all that shines above. His glory is expressed; But Saints who know His endless love. Should sing His praises best. HOW BEAUTEOUS ARE THEIR FEET How beauteous are their feet Who stand on Zion's hill. Who bring salvation on their tongues And words of peace reveal. How charming is their voice! How sweet their tidings are: "Zion, behold thy Saviour King, He reigns in triumph here." How blessed are our ears That hear this joyful sound, Which kings and prophets waited for And sought, but never found. The Lord makes bare His arm Through all the earth abroad: Let every nation now behold Its Saviour and its God. SAVIOUR, REDEEMER OF MY SOUL Saviour, Redeemer of my soul. Whose mighty hand hath made me whole, Whose wondrous pow'r hath raised me up, And filled with sweet my bitter cup! What tongue my gratitude can tell, O gracious God of Israel. Never can I repay Thee, Lord; But I can love Thee. Thy pure word. Hath it not been my one delight, My joy by day, my dream by night? Then let my lips proclaim it still, And all my life reflect Thy will. O'errule mine acts to serve Thine ends; Change frowning foes to smiling friends; Chasten my soul till I shall be In perfect harmony with Thee. Make me more worthy of Thy love. And fit me for the life above. MAY THE LORD GO WITH US May the Lord go with us. And with us abide By His Holy Spirit To direct and guide. As from here we sever Now, and still forever May the Lord go with us And with us abide. May the Lord go with us. And His tender love. As a mantle o'er us, Still our shelter prove; Till with happy greeting, We, in joyful meeting. Lift again our voices To the courts above. May the Lord go with us, Then are we secure; Life or death befalling, We can still endure; With His arms enfolding  To His promise holding. We can travel onward. Ever safe and sure. LORD, WE COME BEFORE THEE NOW Lord, we come before Thee now, At Thy feet we humbly bow; Do not Thou our suit disdain; Shall we seek Thee, Lord, in vain? In Thine own appointed way. Now we seek Thee, here we stay; Lord, from hence we would not go, Till a blessing Thou bestow. Send some message from Thy word, That may joy and peace afford; Comfort those who weep and mourn. Let "the time of love" return. Grant, we all may seek and find Thee, our gracious God and kind; Heal the sick, the captive free, Let us all rejoice in Thee.