		AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
ALPINE STAKE
	The fourth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held at
American Fork, January 24 1901.
	Meeting called to order at 10 a. m., Presi-
dent Standring presiding. Opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Brother James Kirkham. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.”
	The Stake officers were all present and

[Column 2]
all the presidents of the war ds, as shown
by the roll call. Minutes of m orning ses-
sion of former conference read a d accepted.
	President Standring welcomed the sisters
and was pleased to see so many present.
	President Sarah Foutz reported Pleasant
Grove ward. The sisters were laying up
wheat and relieving the poor, of whom
they have quite a few; were united in their
labors.
	President Martha Woolley reported Tin-
den. Are a small ward with sixty-one
members, have a band of good sisters and
find a benefit in taking the meetings to the
houses.
	President Isadora Beck reported Manila.
They are all united and have good
meetings. Visit the sick and help the
poor.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi. The
society is in good condition, the sisters all
united.
	President Elizabeth Berry reported Cedar
Valley. Had a Mothers’ and Daughters’
meeting and never had a better time.
Have stored some wheat and feel they are
gradually improving.
	Alpine was reported by President Sarah
Marsh. Were relieving the poor and lay-
ing up grain. Encouraged the young
mothers to join the society.
	American Fork First Ward reported by
President Orpha Robinson. They had
bought five tons of coal for the poor and
helped the missionaries some. Are united
and getting along very well.
	American Fork Second Ward reported
by President Sarah S. Chipman. Had
held meetings at the sisters’ homes and
found quite an improvement in attendance.
	American Fork, Third Ward, reported by
President Mary E. Abel. They have good
meetings, hold two a month.
	American Fork Fourth Ward reported
by President Alice T. Steele. Are in good
condition, have the teachers report the poor
and carry them supplies. They have a
good attendance at their cottage meetings.
	Lehi North branch was reported by Sis-
ter Ellen Jones. They have fifty members
enrolled, have good teachers and are try-
ing to do their best for the furtherance of
the work of the Lord.
	President Rebecca Standring was truly
thankful to hear the reports of the presi-
dents. Spoke of Mothers’ and Daughters’
meetings, they are for the enefit of the
young women. The instruction given
should be for the improvement of the
youth of Zion, and to teach them the
principles of life and health, also for the
training of children. Spoke of the duties
of teachers, it is to carry comfort and prog-
ress to the people. They should be so
filled with the Spirit of God that they can
discern the spirits of those they visit.
God is with us in our labors, and if our
young people will attend Relief Society
meetings they will receive great benefit
and will be prepared to take the places of
their mothers. Had visited every ward in
the Stake, and the reports of the Stake
officers show the condition of the wards.
	Meeting closed by singing “How firm a
foundation,” etc. Benediction by Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.
	The afternoon session of conference con-
tinued at 2 p. m. President Rebecca
Standring presiding. Meeting opened by
singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing,” Prayer by Brother Christensen.
Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand


flowers.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and accepted.
	President Standring spoke of the 17th of
March and our membership fee. Thought
we should have a jubilee.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley
was glad to see so many in conference and
to hear the reports of the presidents of the
wards.
	President Joseph H. Clarke said if we
wish to progress we must do our duty.
Where the Lord has selected a person
to do a certain work, He will qualify
him for that work and bless him in the
performance of that duty. It is our duty
to sustain whoever is placed over us. The
Savior told the people to offer their prayers
in secret and He would reward them
openly.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning.”
	Stake Counselor Harriet Jacobs thought
if Paul were here today he would be con-
verted to the idea that it was good for
the sisters to speak in meetings.
	Stake Aid Rosalie Driggs enjoyed the
meeting very much. “We are blest in
having such good sisters at the head of our
society. We know they are doing their
best, and we should bring our bodies and
minds in subjection to the will of God, be
charitable to our brethren and sisters and
teach our children the ways of God.”
	President Stephen S. Chipman said, “We
certainly enjoy the spirit of our calling.
We must learn to sacrifice our feelings and
allow others to use their judgment as well
as us.”
	Brother Christensen spoke of his
travels among the Lamanites.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke bore her testimony
and rejoiced in the truth. Had been read-
ing the old EXPONENTS and found they
were good to read. Referred to the teach-
ings on sericulture.
	Brother Jos. Kirkham read a piece of
poetry entitled “Two Words.”
	President Standring said we should take
joy and pleasure raising silk, for by this
means the sisters could clothe their chil-
dren. Urged them to try and raise silk.
They could get the eggs and a book of in-
structions for the asking.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Bene-
diction by President Stephen S. Chipman.
