KANAB STAKE.
	Kanab Relief Society conference con-
vened in Kanab meeting house at 4:30 p.
m., September 7, 1901, First Counselor
Hannah E .Hoyt presiding.
	Present on the stand were Sister Eliza-
beth Stevenson, of the General Board;
Counselors H. E. Hoyt and Elizabeth
Pugh, of the Stake Relief Society; repre-
sentatives from all the branches in the
Stake, except Mt. Carmel and Glendale.
	Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.”
Prayer by Sister Emily Lewis. Minutes
of June conference lead and accepted.
	President Margaret Baird, of Kanab
Relief Society, reported that society as im-
proving and members trying to do the
best they can. They were saving means
to build a society house.
	President Emma Brown, of Fredonia,
reported that society as doing a good work.
	Miss Abbie Cox gave a favorable report
of the Orderville Relief Society.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson, of Salt Lake
City, addressed the sisters. She was
pleased to meet the sisters. Referred to
the importance of the Relief Society work.
It is very essential and was afraid we did
not appreciate it. Told of the difficulties
she had met in preparing for and making
her journey to visit us, and was sorry the
sisters were not all here to meet her.
Every virtuous woman should belong to the
society. Spoke of the necessity of being
chaste and pure and making right mar-
riages. There is a great mission for all
mothers. Help the daughters to become
good wives. All be missionaries, there is
ample work at home for missionaries. Keep
the confidence of your children, and teach
them to be pure and holy, prayerful and
modest. Be careful of your boys as well as
your girls. Paid a beautiful tribute to
the memory of Sister Zina D. H. Young,
said she would never die, her work will
keep her living in the memory of thous-
ands.
	Sister Harriet Brown was pleased to meet
with the sisters. Remembered the hall
and house where the first meeting of the
Saints was held in Nauvoo, had sat on the
Prophet’s knee. Paid a high tribute to
Sister Zina, her lovely disposition and
noble life. Felt deeply interested in the
welfare of the young people. Our chil-
dren are our first care and will be great
blessings if we train them properly. Had
passed through mobbings and trials, but
had always been blest and sustained. Felt
to bless all the sisters, her heart was full
of blessing for them. Prayed continually
for strength to shun evil. “Girls, never
say 'I don’t care,’ it is dangerous. We
should care enough to live right, and say
good things always.” Told us she was a
member of the General Board, but sup-
posed only a few of the sisters knew it.
	Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Bene-
diction by Sister Bethana Hart.
	Afternoon session opened by singing

[Column 3]
“Awake, ye Saints of God, awake.”
Prayer by President Thomas Chamber-
lain. Singing, “The Gospel standard high
is raised.”
	Present on the stand were Sister Steven-
son, of the General Board, Stake Relief
Society Counselors H. E. Hoyt and Eliza-
beth Pugh, President M. E. Pond, E. J.
Lewis, Emma G. Woolley, also Stake
President E. D. Woolley, President
Chamberlain and Brother J. W. Crosby, Jr.
	President Snow’s address that was given
at Saltair was read by Sister Maria Porter.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the sisters.
She was pleased to see so many more out
to meeting this evening. We should not
be discouraged when our present Prophet
encourages and blesses our work. Spoke
of the Woman’s Building, the encourage-
ment which President Snow had given it.
It is the best organization known for
women. Today there are many mothers,
they must not neglect their children; but
the best mothers are also the best members
of the Relief Society. Exhorted all to be
pure in thought and conversation. Ad-
monished mothers to teach their sons to
make home pleasant and comfortable for
their wives. Teach children to pay tith-
ing, prove that the Lord will open the
windows of heaven, etc. She had proved
Him in the past and could trust Him in the
future. “May God help us to fill every
department in our mission.”
	Stake President E. D. Woolley expressed
pleasure in listening to the remarks of
Sister Stevenson, was thankful for her
visit, as well as the visit of the brother
who is with us. There had been many
principles advanced that we can profit by.
Exhorted the sisters to sustain the Relief
Society.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.” Benediction by Brother J. W.
Crosby, Jr.
	Kanab Stake Relief Society meeting held
December 14, 1901. at the residence of
Elizabeth Pugh.
	Present were Stake President Artemesia
Seegmiller and Counselor Elizabeth Pugh,
and representatives from all the branches
excepting Mt. Carmel and Glendale.
	Opened by singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by Sister
Harriet Bowens.
	President Seegmiller said there was but
little time, some business to attend to and
to hear the report of the different branches.
	Sister C. Hoyt gave a report of the
Orderville society. Said they were trying
to do all they could for the cause and ad-
vancement of the Gospel, and were trying
to raise means to send to the Woman’s
Building, trying to raise their children to
be useful.
	Sister Emma Brown, of Fredonia, said:
“We are united and trying to do right. We
have work meetings every two weeks.”
	Sister M. E. Baird, of Kanab: “I believe
as a band of sisters we are striving to do
right. We have program meetings and
testimony meetings once a month, and
feel that the sisters are improving. We
expect to have lectures on motherhood
given by Sister Horne. We are striving to
get means to donate to the building in
Salt Lake.”
	Sister Buchanan, of Johnson, said she felt
that the sisters of Johnson were united. “I
believe that if we only make up our minds
to go to meeting we can go." Felt that


she would appreciate having meetings, as
they did not hold meetings now.
	Sister Seaman, from the Ranch, said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters. “We
do not have Relief Society meetings at the
Ranch, but attend Sunday meetings.”
She would be glad if a Society were organ-
ized, felt like it would be a good thing.
She felt well, and hoped we would remain
faithful.
	President Seegmiller said she had just
returned from visiting the branches in
Glendale and Mt. Carmel. Found the
sisters feeling well, those that attended felt
like raising their proportion of the fund.
	Sister Seegmiller said she would be
pleased to hear from the sisters but there
was not time, having our meeting after the
afternoon meeting. Spoke of the feast we
have had in conference. We want to ask
ourselves how far we are living the lives
of Latter day Saints, etc. Set examples
before our children that are worthy of
emulation. Have faith and be able to live
the principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Elizabeth Pugh: “I feel and
realize that we are living in important
times, and if we live in compliance with
the commandments of the Lord we will
have the blessings of God.”
	Sister Emma Woolley: “Let us as
mothers pray for wisdom. There is going
to be a drawing in of the lines, that our
Father’s work may be done,” etc.
	Sister Laura Chamberlain spoke of the
need of counseling our children aright that
they may do right. Said we should teach
our girls the responsibility of mothers and
wives. Asked the blessing of God upon
us.
	Singing, Doxology. Meeting adjourned
for three months Benediction by Arte-
missia Potter.
