large room, with floor polished like glass,
where felt slippers of uncertain size are
handed to everyone that the floor may not be
marred. Then begins the tour of what
proves to be a palace of magnificence, and
all are anxious to see what the building
contains.
	The r oms are gorgeous indeed, with
most costly pictures on the walls, of all the
Emperors of Germany, with those of many
of the other nations. A lovely one of
Queen Victoria, standing in court costume,
is noticeable, as also one of the Queen of
Sweden and many others.
	A costly palace indeed is this! Gold
doors, gold trimmings, gold ornaments,
gold on the walls, gold on the ceiling and
gold everywhere.
	There are many presents to the Emperor
of untold value, both gold and silver, rich-
ly upholstered chairs with gold frames, in
fact, gold and silver is used as through it
could be picked up in the streets.
	One room known as the White Room is
white and gold with crystal chandeliers of
unknown value suspended from the ceiling,
which scintillate, reflecting the rays of
light that enter through the deep windows,
whose tops and sides are wrought in gold
of exquisite workmanship. One can
scarcely imagine such magnificence, much
less describe it. This room is of large
dimensions, with highly polished floor
whereon one scarce can stand; its use we
can scarcely understand.
	The Hall of the Knights is another
of splendor. This one contains a chande-
lier of crystal also, whose value must be
fabulous. It is covered with a thin gauze,
it is so precious, which is only removed on
state occasions.
	The shields of the knights in solid gold
hang here, while statuary of knights in ar-
mor and other wonderful decorations are in
wide panels just below the ceiling all
around the room, whose doors are also
ornamented gold, which almost dazzle the
sight. These are some of the warriors of
old who are honored and remembered in
German history.
THE LUTHER ROOM.
	The Luther room is here, where sat in
solemn conclave the Diet of Worms, who

[Column 2]
summoned the great reformer before its
august body, demanding of him to recant
his heresies.
	Would that these walls could repeat the
words used at that world-famed trial, the
features of those taking part be reproduced,
and that the voice of Luther could be
heard when he said, “What I have said, I
have said, and cannot recant, so help me
God!” The solemnity of the occasion,
with the hush that followed that speech
seems here still.
	This perhaps was a throne room at one
time, as the throne with its crimson and
gold canopy is still here.
	Then the present throne room! Imagine
the costly canopy overhead, the gold chair
on which the Emperor sits on an elevated
gold step, surrounded by a gold bar a
couple of feet from it that no one may
come nearer to His Imperial majesty while
he sits there; then think of all the costly
magnificence, all the pomp and splendor
that map and gold can make, then you
have a faint idea of the resplendent glory
of this room.
	Great scenes have been enacted here
when an Emperor has been crowned, but
now it is silent; none are clamoring for
place or position; no heart-aches from dis-
appointment; no heart-burnings for things
unattainable, but peace and silence reign.
The bustle of the great city seems far
away, and only comes as faint murmurs.
THE ART GALLERY.
	The art gallery is two hundred feet long,
and, oh, the priceless paintings to be seen
here! Two are the crowning scenes, one
that of the old Emperor, the other of the
present Kaiser. Both are of immense
dimensions and are gorgeous in the ex-
treme.
	Of course the central figure is that of the
Kaiser, who solemnly registers his vow
and accepts the crown. All the men of
state are near, the stone features of Bismark
in bold prominence with delegations im-
portant and stately, making a most impos-
ing spectacle. The Emperor with a few
attendants sits on the balcony opposite.
	What a gathering! It must have been
a solemn time indeed. The artist has done
his shading and coloring well. It is said
that it took him five years to paint each
one of these.
	Here are the pictures of Germany’s de-
parted great ones, Emperors, princes, with
the Empress, ladies, men of state, as also
those who were celebrated in the known
world. Here they are true to life, in gold
frames of elaborate design and width. Of
all the palaces before visited this is the
most gorgeous. One could never think of
this as a home. The palace idea is first
and foremost and always present. Such
magnificence is really burdensome and
oppressive.
	There is a large hall, to be known as the
White Hall, in course of finishing. No
doubt it will be very imposing. It will be
quite an addition to the palace, and will be
used as the amusement hall and a place of
recreation, and apparently will be on a
scale of appropriate grandeur to the re-
mainder of the palace. The chapel hall is
quite large and nicely arranged. This is
where the Royal family worship. Its walls
are ornamented by scenes in the life of
Christ, and the words, “I am the resurrec-
tion and the life," are prominent. The
humble Nazarine! Think of His station

[Column 3]
in life, poor among the very poor, without
a place oft-times to lafy His hea[---] and
suffering and of grie, the tea rejected
associate of publicans and sinners, minious
by His own, suffering an igno in that
death, a companion with thieves by
dreadful hour, yet now acknowledged God.
the civilized world as the Son of and
Here He is represented in beautiful
striking attire, that he might look, like the
grand ones who claim to worship Him.
Yet if He were to visit them today, as He
was when on earth, again would He be re-
jected, royalty could never mingle with
those in the humble walks of life. It
seems almost like a mockery. Though He
is also the Savior of the rich, yet would
they never own Him while on earth, nor
would they now.
	A sigh escapes the lips; how untoward
is the world, and how deluded by the touch
of gold. The poor were His companions,
the kings His persecutors. Looking at the
beautiful paintings of His death and suffer-
ings, on which the titled rest their eyes,
one is led to exclaim, “Who will stand the
day of His coming?”
	We leave the place with a sense of relief,
and thinking of the other palaces belonging
to the Emperor, with all his responsi-
bilities, and remembering the old adage that
“uneasy lies the head that wears a crown,”
no thought of envy is in the heart.
	Opposite the main entrance of the palace
is an imposing monument of Emperor
William I. Under it flows the river Spree.
It is a semi-circle in form, the chariot,
with driver and four horses, turned toward
the palace on either end. Just opposite
the centre of it is a statue of the Emperor,
returning in victory to the palace, after the
Franco Prussian war. His horse is led by
a woman. The statue stands on a huge
pedestal of dark marble with four square
corners, with a lion on each of them. They
are to represent Germany at different stages
of the war. One lion is looking disturbed
and restless, clutching in his paws the im-
plements of war. The next one is opening
his mouth in anger and is gathering them
up. The next is springing forward,
mouth extended, spears, muskets, flags
and swords in active service.
	O, the terror inspired by such a monster,
a fitting type of the demon war!
	Then comes victorious peace. The lion
crouching down at rest, holding in triumph
broken muskets, broken hubs and wheels,
battered cannon, torn coats, swords with
broken blades, in fact the destruction of
war is fearfully delineated, and one shud-
ders, thinking how great the havoc and de-
struction of life entailed by this war.
	On the Emperor’s birthday beautiful
wreaths of flowers are placed on the steps
of the monument by a grateful people,
many faded ones lying there now. This is
the first and most imposing monument we
have yet seen. It is about sixty feet high
and bears the following inscription:
“Monument of Emperor William I., 1861-
1888.”
	Close by, in course of erection, is what
is called the “Dom Building.” This will
be to Germany what Westminster Abbey
is to England, the tomb of the Royal dead.
It is not nearly completed, though it has
been ten years since it was commenced.
This will be the sepulchre of the present
Kaiser and family.
(Continued.)


