SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1902.


[Column 1]
HAPPENINGS HERE AND THERE
	It will soon be a month since we left Salt
Lake City Eastward bound, and the readers
of our dear little home paper will expect some
account of the conventions and council in
Washington. There is so much to tell
that we shall each of us be telling it for
many weeks after we return home.
	Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon has reached
Utah before this time with her party of
four, and the reporters have probably ob-
tained information from her for the daily
papers.
	It will be interesting to our readers to
learn that we have seen and conversed
with the world-famous Clara Barton, of the
National and International Red Cross
Society, and also her field marshal, Dr.
Hubbell, who accompanies her on all her
expeditions. Miss Barton’s health is much
improved since last spring, when we visited
her at her home in Glen Echo with a party
of ladies, Mrs. J. Ellen Foster having
charge of the affair. At that time she
showed us all her jewels and badges of
honor given by the great people of differ-
ent countries, in recognition of her grand
services in times of great distress and
calamities.
	This winter she has apartments at the
Hotel Fairfax, in Washington, (the Coun-
cil headquarters) and therefore those stay-
ing in the house were privileged to see her
coming and going, or receiving callers in
the hotel parlors.
	The day Prince Henry arrived he sent
an official representative to call, upon her
by request of the Emperor of Germany.
She received him in the hotel parlor, and
of course all the guests were on tiptoe to
see the royal messenger in glittering
array with his foreign decorations. 
	Miss Barton is a quiet person, very unas-
suming, makes no pretensions to greatness or
honor and is reluctant to admit that she has
done anything worthy of such praise and
commendation as she receives from her many
friends and admirers. Her only object is
and has been to help suffering humanity.
She spent one entire evening with our
party and related, at our solicitation, inci-
dents in her life, giving a history of the
Red Cross in her deliberate way, now and
then referring to Dr. Hubbell for a date or
a name. She was glad when questions
were asked, and we were glad to learn
from her own words concerning her labors
and methods of work.
	When Prince Henry’s party went to

[Column 2]
Annapolis one of the gentlemen of his suite
stayed in Washington on purpose to pay
his respects to Miss Barton. She told us
he was a personal friend and a member of
the Emperor’s household.
	On Friday evening, February 28, the
writer spent hours in Miss Barton’s room
talking Mormonism and answering her
questions about our people and the past
history and future outlook. It was a rare
opportunity and very unexpected.
	Miss Barton addressed the Council at
two of its sessions, and was vigorously ap-
plauded whenever she appeared on the
platform, as was also Miss Susan B. Anth-
ony. These two great ladies are every-
where recognized as heroines of the age in
which we live.
	There were many others present who
rank high in woman’s work and who
may yet be as famous as these two women
who are celebrated on both continents.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the younger
suffrage leader, now president, re-elected at
the late convention of the N-A. W. S. A.,
and Miss Alice Stone Blackwell, the
daughter of Lucy Stone, who bids fair to
be as great as her illustrious mother, and
the Rev. Anna H. Shaw, the popular
lecturer and platform orator, perhaps the
most popular public speaker at the present
time on this side of the globe. These
women with the witty Harriet Taylor
Upton, who carries the money bags, are
the best known of the general officers.
Miss Mary G. Hay, who knows just how
to get the money, and Miss Gordon, the
corresponding secretary, are fast winning
their way on the road to fame.
	Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, presi-
dent of the National Council during the
last three years, won regal honors by her
graciously dignified way of presiding and
recognizing every one’s right to place and
time, and her total unconsciousness of self
and thoughtfulness of others. Her open-
ing address on Wednesday, February 19,
was gracefully written, and a magnificent
document worthy a place in the literature
of the new century.
	Other women of the Council who de-
serve mention and who added much to the
success of the Triennial, were Mrs. Maria
Purdy Peck, vice-president-at large; Dr.
Kate Waller Barrett, one of the most inter-
esting women in Washington; and the Rev.
Anna Garlin Spencer, who, through
her efficient labors in many directions in the
interest of the Council has come to be
recognized as one of the pillars of the
Council itself. She stands at the head of
the cabinet and is a born diplomat. Mrs.
Ellen A. Richardson, of Boston, who is
the cabinet head of the fine arts committee,
gave one of the very best papers read dur-
ing the Triennial.
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates was quite as
busy, if not more so than any woman at
the Council, attending to the press work,
and was finally elected chairman of the
press committee for the next three years.
Mrs. May Wright Sewall brought her name
before the audience in a very happy and
complimentary way.
	Later on we hope to publish some of
the best papers, or extracts from them; but
one cannot crowd much of such elaborate
doings and sayings into a few columns of a
small paper.
	We had the pleasure of meeting, both at
the Suffrage Convention and the National
Council, some of the very dear friends of

[Column 3]
many years ago, on our first visit to the
Capital: Mrs Rachel Foster Avery, then
Miss Rachel Foster, now a matron devoted
to motherly interests in the home, also
Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer, who
rendered such helpful assistance and gave
herself to our cause, as it were. Faithful
and true, friends in very deed have both
these been from that day to this. Belva A.
Lockwood, staunch and true as steel, Lillie
Devereaux Blake and dear Marilla Ricker,
though we did not see her this time. But
there are others, too, whose acquaintance we
have made since, no less true and truly
great, always to be depended upon. Clara
B. Colby, a genuine friend Hannah G.
Solomon and Dr. Ella L. Gilchrist, never to
be forgotten when we make up our jewels
among women; and we have dozens more—
Ida M. Weaver, Emma S. Olds, Sadie
American, Dell P. Glazier, Frances Burns—
and these are only a few of the bright
galaxy that shine out for the enlightenment
of the world.
	Then beside business sessions and public
meetings and “pioneer celebrations” and
the “new woman” and the “new man,”
there were grand receptions tendered in
elegant homes, music, art and dainty re-
freshments, of which more may be said
hereafter.
	The reception at the White House which
Mrs. Roosevelt had tendered to the Council
was cancelled because of the illness of her
son; but just before we left Washington
we had the opportunity of attending the
reception given to the Mothers’ Congress.
We also had the privilege, through the in-
fluence of Senator Kearns, a few of us, of
going through the White House conserva-
tory.
	Mrs. George Sutherland gave a luncheon
at the “New Willard” to the Utah dele-
gation, a most sumptuous affair, and a
number of us dined twice with Senator
Kearns at the “Raleigh.” Indeed we have
crowded as much as possible into the
few weeks at the Capital, and most of us
have been on duty the greater part of the
time.
	L. D. S. meetings have been held in
Baltimore and Philadelphia at which some
of our sisters were among the speakers,
and also here in New York City. Last
evening, Tuesday, March 4th, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Laine, there was a large
gathering of Utah people at what is termed
here a Cottage meeting. There were so
many from Salt Lake City present, one might
fancy in looking over the congregation that
Salt Lake had come to Gotham. There
was an excellent spirit and feeling manifest
and strong testimonies of the Gospel were
borne by the sisters and Elders from Utah
and by some of the new converts. We
can truly say, notwithstanding the oppo-
sition, that
	“Zion prospers, all is well.”


Mrs. Susan Cabot Richardson has just
left an estate of $200,000 to Radcliff
College.
	Miss Helen M. Gould, an advocate of
equal suffrage, has given $6,000 to create a
third Helen Day Gould scholarship of
$10,000 at Wellesley College, in memory
of her mother, and has added $3,000 to
raise the two existing Helen Day Gould
scholarships from $7,000 to $10,000.


