RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in Heaven has called 
from our midst Sister Eliza Johannah Hall, who 
was always faithful in performing her duties in 
the Relief Society and merited the love and re-
spect of all her associates, we feel to express our
love for her.
	Resolved, That as a sister associate and friend
we feel that words cannot fully express the esteem
in which we hold her, and while we feel the deep-
est sorrow at our loss we bow obediently to the
will of God.
	That we ever cherish her memory and strive to
follow her example by being faithful Latter-day
Saints.
	That we extend to her husband, family and
relatives our sincere sympathy for their sad loss. 
		Mary Hall.


[Column 1]
HOW I EMBRACED THE GOSPEL
	I received the Gospel in Utica, in 1842.
I spent the summer in Utica, N. Y., at the
house of Mrs. Rebecca Monroe, who was a
tailoress by trade. She was highly recom-
mended to me, and wishing to learn the
same business, I went there and felt my-
self well rewarded while there for var-
ous reasons, one being that I learned
my business, which is very profitable and
useful in families of children, especially
among the farmers. A good seamstress is
good on all ocasions, for we had no sewing
machines in those days.
	Another reason was the Gospel called

[Column 2]
Mormonism was brought there by Elder
James Blakesley, but very few people
would go to hear him, myself being one of
them. Mrs. Monroe went gladly. Her
brother, who lived in Buffalo, had written
to her to go without fail if a Mormon came
to Utica to preach.
	I would not go. I was a devoted mem-
ber of the Episcopal church. I greatly en-
joyed their form of worship. Our prayers
were so humble, so childlike, so sincere
and unitedly speaking together, I felt to
say, verily the Lord does delight to own
us and bless us, for he said, “Except ye
are one, ye are not mine.” And I thought
every one loves his own, and since God is
our Father, are we not all brothers and
sisters? Mormons can love each other and
we will do the same.
	Mrs. Monroe’s love increased for the
Mormons, and she was anxious that I
should go and hear them. Finally she told
me. The Bible tells us he who judges a
matter without hearing it is a fool. Yes, I
could plainly see this, and I said I will go
and hear him, but do not expect to see as
he does. I went, and to my astonishment
was confounded. His doctrine was to be a
strict believer in the Redeemer. But I
must take time to think, for Jesus said
there will be false prophets in the last
days. I thought this being the case, I do
not want to see a prophet. Why should
we? Is not Jesus our teacher and the New
Testament our guide?
	On the first of September I found that
two of the daughters of Mrs. Monroe were
to be baptized and three of her sisters, and
felt myself ready to join the number.
Elder Blakesley baptized us on that day. The
next Sunday Catherine’s babe was sick,
she could not go. After meeting Ruth
said, “I am going to see the sick child.” I
said, “May I go?” and Elder Blakesley
said, “May I go?” Of course he would
like a walk.
	We were soon there, going only two
blocks. After shaking hands and being
seated he asked, “If your clock were out
of repair, who do you think would be the
best repairer?”
	We looked at each other, not knowing
why he asked the question. “Do you not
think the maker of the clock would be the
best repairer?”
	“Oh, certainly,” was the reply.
	He said, “The maker of that little frame
is the best repairer.”
	The mother took the hint and said, “Will
you administer to the child?”
	“Well, let us pray,” he said.
	We all knelt down and he offered a fer-
vent prayer. We all said amen in earnest.
	He arose and laid his hands on her. She
took no notice, had not been conscious
all day. When he said amen she raised
her eyes and reached her hands to her
mother. She took her from the cradle on
her lap. She then asked for a drink of
water. After drinking she asked for some-
thing to eat, then getting down on the floor
began to play.
	This was the sister of our Bishop, Hyrum
Clawson. She married a Mr. Lamb and
lives in Utah. Her mother and I were bap-
tized at the same time. I shall never for-
get my feelings when Harriet was healed,
wishing I might realize the same when I
should be sick. It was two years before I
was sick, then I found the same remedy
produced the same effect.
	Now, I thought every one who read the


[Column 1]
Bible would be a Mormon, but found my-
self mistaken. When I  went to see our
Episcopal minister, hoping he would in-
vestigate our principles, “Oh, no,” he told
me, “I must remember that whether there
be prophecies they will fail, tongues shall
cease—”
	Here he stopped. I repeated the next
sentence, “And knowledge will vanish
away.”
	“Well,” said he, “Whoever shall add to
the words of this book, God will add the
plagues which are written there.”
	“Yes,” said I, “this is John the Reve-
lator’s vision. He would not have you add
from it.”
	He then asked to be excused, said he
must visit a sick person. I was disap-
pointed and grieved, but still hoped he
might yet see the Gospel in its own true
light.
	All this happened in September. Oc-
tober came and my time expired and I went
home to Deansville, a small village twelve
miles from Utica. Nice farms were sur-
rounding the place, in whose families I
could use my trade. My stepfather, whose
name was Joseph Dunlap, welcomed me
home and I gave him some books to read
concerning our faith. The farmers said to
me, “Your father is getting to he a Mor-
mon.” I replied, “No, he is only reading
some books.”
	Finally an Elder arrived at our home,
his name was Cyprian Marsh. But our
neighbors would not give him leave to
preach in that settlement. Our next door
neighbor, an aged woman, whose name I
do not remember, said she was acquainted
with Joseph Smith and all the Smith fam-
ily. She was a bitter enemy of theirs and
made our neighbors bitter also, so much
so that they made an effigy of Mr. Marsh
in the field opposite our house. They did
not burn it, however, they did it to vex us.
Elder Marsh was a good speaker and did
a good work. In a short time, in one week
think, our family accepted the Gospel and
were baptized in a stream which ran
through our lot. Cyprian Marsh baptized
them after damming up the stream. There
were four of them, Father Dunlap’s daugh-
ter, Ann and his brother, Dawson Dunlap,
my mother, Sarah Dunlap, and our
dressmaker, Ursula Cole, who was
sewing for us at the time. All were pleased
and thankful they had heard the Gospel.
	Elder Marsh then left us to go to Nau-
voo. We met him there in one year after.
The farmers, our neighbors, were willing
we should go, and willing to buy our
property to help us go, because they did
not like our religion. Accordingly we
were all glad to take our leave, wishing to
see and hear the Prophet.
	Father and mother must go to see my
mother’s sister who lived twenty miles
east of Utica. She hoped her sister would
enjoy this Gospel as she had done, and
wished to give her a chance. But Aunt
Mary believed in election, and said, “If
you are one of the elect you will be saved,
but if not, you will not.”

[Column 2]
	She had a daughter quite low with con-
sumption, Cousin Ann Maria Dodge. She
told me she wished me to stay with her
mother. She said, “Mother will be so
lonesome when I am gone.” My mother
gave her consent and I stayed, but in one
short week her spirit took its flight. But
father and mother were on their way to
Nauvoo, leaving my sister, Ann, with
Mrs. Monroe, in Utica.
	September arrived and Ann came for me
to go to Nauvoo, saying a company was
soon to start from Buffalo to Nauvoo. We
took leave of Aunt Mary and went. We
arrived there in time and found Mrs. Mon-
roe’s brother and family (a part of them)
went with us.
	The captain of this company was Brad-
ford Elliot. After leaving for Cincinnati
we came to the Ohio river and took a steam
boat. Here we found a company from
Boston (Brigham Young was their captain)
and others from Nauvoo, Daniel Spencer
and Heber C. Kimball, George A. Smith,
Sister Cobb and two children. Her baby
died at Cincinnati but the little girl is liv-
ing yet, here in Utah.
	We found the Boston company very
agreeable, making our trip quite a pleasant
one. We arrived in Nauvoo in September.
The weather was quite fine and the city a
pleasant one, but some enemies destroyed
the peace of the prophet, as well as of the
Church. He had been arrested and taken
before the magistrates over thirty times and
proved innocent each time. The climate
was not healthy because of the fog which
rose from the river. We all had chills and
fever, yet could attend meeting and hear
our prophet preach, I am happy to say. But
the unhappy feelings continued, and after
awhile they must see the prophet, he must
bear the blame for everything.
	He had crossed the river to see some
Indians in Iowa, with some others. Brother
John Taylor and his (Joseph’s) brother,
Hyrum, and Willard Richards were with
him. Sister Emma Smith, his wife, sent
them a person saying, “Surely the shep-
herd will not leave the sheep. O, no,
come back to the sheep, to save yourself 
and the sheep.”
	His brother said “Let us go back.” They
all took his counsel and delivered them-
selves up and went with him to Carthage.
	You know the result. Joseph and Hyrum
did not survive, they were martyrs. As
his mother said, “They are better off than
those who slew them.” But their brother
Samuel’s grief was more than he could
bear, he only lived one month. This was
in June, 1844.
	We were permitted to finish the Temple
sufficient to receive ordinances therein, then
leave it, which we did. This took one
year and a half. We had the use of it in
January, then left .for the mountains in
February, 1846, arrived the same year
at Council Bluffs and wintered there. A
part of the company, however, stopped at
Mount Pisgah for a time and a few at
Garden Grove, and others at Council
Bluffs, but the greater part reached Win

[Column 3]
ter Quarters and so many children and par-
ents died there that it seemed quite a field
of the dead.
	In April, 1846, the officers of the Church,
with Brother Brigham the captain, left for
the mountains, and in May another com-
pany followed, myself being one of them.
	The Sabbath day was a blessing to the
people as well as the cattle, and the Platte
river was also a blessing. We were bene-
fited by it nearly all the way until we came
to Green river. Here we came th chimney
rock, so called because a rock about the
size of a house at the bottom, then a black
chimney at the top singular to look at but
on the other side of the river. On this side,
we found a tree and a pail. In the tree was
a letter written by our brethren, the pion-
eers, who left it for us. Twice we found
letters for us in a tree, with the date when
they left there. Not long after we met
them on their way going home, a joyful
meeting. This was at Pacific Spring, so
called because it was the first stream which
flowed towards the Pacific ocean.
	They stopped with us two days, because
we must travel twenty miles before we
came to water. This would be hard on the
animals. After telling us the difficulties
we must meet, we bade each other fare-
well, wishing each other peace and pros-
perity.
	In one week we arrived at the Fort, our
home, built of logs by those who had re-
turned from the Mexican war. Yes, those
men to whom Brother Brigham said, “I do
not think you will fight, for the Lord said,
‘I will fight your battles.’ ”
	It was September 12 when our captain,
George B. Wallace, arrived. A part of his
company came later and took their time. 
	We had no snow for three months, and
not through the winter, as I expected. City
Creek watered the ground nicely. One of
the company had a large ox, the poorest
animal. I ever saw the property of Joseph
Dunlap. In six weeks it was fat and good
and was killed. The beef was as tender as
a chicken.
	Well, all the cattle were the same, no
doubt, and by dividing our share with the
Indians we made friends with them. Yet
they would sometimes help themselves to
our cattle when they could find a herd
some distance from a settlement. This
taught us that we must watch as well as
pray, and do as we wish to be done by
under such circumstances.
					M. E. K.


