LOVE’S SONG.

	I saw a youth and maiden
		Upon a pleasant day,
	Their hearts responsive beating
		To raptures of the May.
	Young buds with fragrance waited
		To great them on their way.
	Sweet birdies carol d gladness
		From every bush and spray.
So happy were al they needs must sing;
"Oh welcome, oh welcome, lovely spring!
The earth is fresh and flowers gay,
And love is love in joyous May.”

	I saw two happy beings
		Whose lives were made complete, 
	For scenes of summer beauty,
		Of wreaths and roses sweet.
	Bright autumn’s golden harvest
		Of luscious fruits and grain,
	And winter’s hoary whiteness
		All breathed the soft refrain:
‘‘Oh, love, thou gift to mortals given,
Thou gift which flows from out of heaven,
Each gentle word, each tender thought,
By thy sweet spirit, love, is taught.”
	I saw two white robed angels
		Upon that far-off shore,
	Where earthly scenes had vanished
		And earthly trial is o'er;
	With crowns of glory resting
		Upon each peaceful brow,
	This holy anthem peeling— 
		(I hear it even now.)
‘‘Oh, love, thou love which e’er endureth!
The angels’ song the theme immureth;
Though life and time no more shall be,
Thou lasteth through eternity.”
				L. Taylor.


[Column 1]
AN EVENING WITH MRS. CROLY.
	I was privileged to be the guest of her-
self and her daughters, Vida and Alice—
both now married, and Alice now living in
England—in their home which Mrs. Croly
owned in Forty-first street. It was a
handsome home, and thither every Sunday
evening the cream of literary, artistic and
social New York would repair, crowding
the rooms, giving of their best, meeting
kindred souls in a manner that savored not
the slightest of Bohemianism; for with that
spirit Mrs. Croly had nothing to do. It
was there one certain Sunday I stood, a
unit in an admiring group about the late
Col. Robert Ingersoll, while he soared a bit
for us, teasing the most narrow-minded

[Column 2]
of the women who were harkening to this
secular Chrysostom because of his melli-
fluous speech while their consciences
gave them warning; and beside him his
youngest daughter, in memory the most
beautiful woman I ever saw, (now Mrs.
Browne) stately in white satin, her intel-
lectual face, glowing in pride of her father,
classic in outline beneath her rippling light
brown hair. There were the Kendals, too
Mr. Kendal grave and very English; Mrs.
Kendal portly and handsome. Moncure
D. Conway was rearing his head with
pride and saying, “I am a Virginian”—it
was all I caught, as I was being led away
to the group of young girls basking in the
sunniness of Ella Wheeler Wilcox and her
friend, Fannie Edgar Thomas, later dis-
tinguished for her Paris letters on musical
subjects, and Marshal P. Wilder told
stories, and Bronson Howard stood around
looking important, and Bijou Fernandez
revelled in her sweet prettiness, ard there
were a whole school of poets and a covey
of singing birds beside. And Mrs. Croly,
the simplest-mannered of all, moved about
making everyone happy without officious-
ness, introducing just the right people to
each other, and adding the word-link
needed to make a true conversation. She
was such a tiny woman, quite wrinkled,
less from age than from focussing her eyes
in her myopia, so that she read with her
head strained low over book or letter; and
her mail obligations every morning at
breakfast used to make me quail f[-]r her!
But she burrowed through it all in her
pur-blindness, because no one could
understand so readily as herself the needs
of this correspondent and that, nor did she
permit even her children to know which
among the number received her charity or
her counsel.
	Those days have passed with their
pageants of great personages, the applause
of women, the honor of her clubs, the
quietness of her own home, the journal-
istic activities that gave her precedence
among all living writing women. The
friction of her life was stimulating to her;
the disappointments and reverses must
have crushed her in this her seventy-third
year far more than in all that foreran it.
Dear “Jennie June” has attained the great
bourne, and posterity—for she will live
while women progress and remember to
be grateful—shall know her by her fruits.
And if these blessed voyagers ever do come
back to the terrene plane—and who will
say with certainty that they do not? one of
these days the women who love her of that
united Sorosis daughterhood of which Mrs.
Croly was the faithful mother, sitting in
council together, may listen with their
consciousness, rather than with their ears,
to the memorial roll call and hear her
gentle answer, “Adsum,”—“Here.”—Ex.


