WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
UINTAH STAKE
Minutes of the 27th conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake, held
January 25, 1902, President Sarah Pope
presiding.
Opened by singing "Redeemer or Israel."
Prayer by Brother Nelson Merkly. Sing-
ing, "O Jesus, the Giver." Roll called,
showing four Stake and six ward officers
present. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
Counselor A. K. Bartlett said there were
but few present, but the Lord would bless
us in meeting together. It is just as nec-
essary for mothers to understand the prin-
ciples of the Gospel as it is for the mission-
aries who go to the nations of the earth.
The Relief Society should hold on to their
grain and not use it.
Brother George Merkly said he felt un-
able to say anything beneficial to any one
without the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord.
He always had a warm feeling toward the
Relief Society, he received much aid from
them while on his mission. We should al-
ways keep the commandments of the Lord
so we would have a claim on His blessings.
The Relief Society of the Vernal Ward,
Mill Ward, Naples Ward and Glen Ward
were all reported by their presidents as
doing a good work.
Morning session closed by singing, "Our
God we raise to Thee." Benediction by
Brother Thomas Bingham.
Afternoon session opened by singing,
"Now let us rejoice." Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, "How firm a
foundation."
Brother Don B. Cotton thought the pre-
siding officers should not be discouraged on
account of no more being present, for they
had done their duty and would receive a
blessing.
Counselor Mary Hall thought we should
study the lives of our leading sisters and
emulate their example.
Sister C. A. Stringham read some verses
composed by Sister Esther Bennion.
President Sarah Pope made a few closing
remarks, the financial and statistical report
was read, the General and local officers sus-
tained and the meeting closed by singing,
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake convened March 1, 1902, at
10 a. m., in the Fourteenth Ward Hall,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting commenced with the usual
opening exercises, after which the roll was
called, the minutes read and approved and
the statistical and financial report read and
accepted.
President M. I. Horne said all are ex-
pected to pay their ten cent membership.
If any are not able to pay the society will
make up the deficiency.
The president of the 28th ward, Emma
Ridd, said she had been a teacher, but now
would do all she could in her new position
as president.
One of the counselors in the 25th ward
said they had held one meeting,   and felt 
if they were humble they would be
blest of the Lord.
Sarah R. Standring said their organiza-
tion was made last Fast day. They had
held one meeting.

[Column 2]
President S. J. McKean said they had
been organized three years.
Ann Sock, of the 27th ward, organized
last February, said there were nineteen
teachers, which was all that were present.
The 30th ward was reported by the presi-
dent, Sister Bowers. They have four
branches, their workers, are trying to do all
that is required of them.
President Horne related her experience
in trusting in the Lord in case of sickness.
She thought we could spend our time
profitably in sewing and working in our
societies.
Sister Margaret C. Hull said the Relief
Society is like a band of missionaries in
each ward. "We are not sent out into the
world, but we are sent to teach, comfort and
sustain those we work among."
The meeting adjourned until two o'clock.
Singing, "Lord dismiss us." Benediction
by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
Afternoon session opened at 2 o'clock
with President Horne presiding. The
Temple quartette sang "Redeemer of
Israel." Prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas.
The quartette sang another hymn and the
minutes were read and accepted.
Sister C. C. Cannon said we should re-
member we are working for the kingdom
of God, all that we have belongs to Him.
President B. W. Smith felt Relief Society
work was one of our first duties. Wished
we would cease to complain, be kind and
love one another. Liked to see us happy,
live holy lives and put away frivolity.
Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of the re-
sponsibility of Relief Society teachers and
of the principle of faith and the work that
can be accomplished through it.
Sister M. W. Wilcox felt we should live
so that we would always have the spirit of
the Lord to dictate us in all that we do.
Sister M. C. Hull sang a solo.
Sister M. P. Young thought we were
greatly favored in being organized into this
society. Spoke of the greatness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
Sister E. Webb said "The Relief Society
is doing a great work. Let us set examples
that will bring forth fruit."
Julia S. Woolley spoke a few words on
records and reports, also on increasing our
faith by our works.
Sister Elizabeth Paul felt she was blessed
and privileged to be a member of the
Church
Sister Lambert bore a testimony of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
President Horne counseled the sisters to
buy their wheat. She felt we should be
willing to say to the Lord, "Thy will, not
mine, be done."
The meeting adjourned. Singing, Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Sister Barton.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
WAYNE STAKE.
The Wayne Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Thurber Relief Society
hall, December 5, 1901, Stake President
W. E. Robison, Counselor H. M. Hanson,
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn, Patriarch
George Coleman and other brethren and
sisters being present. President Jane S.
Coleman presided.
Meeting opened by singing, "The
happy day has rolled on." Prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. H. Blackburn.
Singing, "Joy to the world." Minutes of
last conference read and approved.
President J. S. Coleman said she felt
truly blest for the spirit present this morn-

[Column 3]
ing. Prayed our minds might ever be en-
lightened, and when we know our duty,
do it, lest we come under condemnation.
Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said we
should use our influence for the further-
ance of the Gospel. Mothers should be
very careful in teaching their children cor-
rect principles.
Sister Sarah A. Robison was pleased
with the privilege of meeting in conference.
We should teach our children reverence for
the Priesthood. Great results could be
accomplished through calling our children
together and and reading to them, and planting
the principles of the Gospel within them in
their youth.
President W. E. Robison said he was
interested in Relief Society work, and when
he reflected upon the fact that the Prophet
Joseph organized the sisters in Relief
Society, which was so uncommon in those
days, and looked at what had been accom-
plished through this society since, it was
truly great. He appreciated the labors of
the sisters and felt they were a great help
in the wards, the labors of the brethren
would not be perfect without the sisters.
President Sarah G. Meeks, of Thurber
Relief Society, reported that branch in
good condition. The sisters were ever on
hand to assist in the ward and she felt
well in her labors.
President Harriet Stapley said the Loa
Relief Society was in good running order.
Teasdale Relief Society was reported by
Counselor L. C. Ostbery in good condition.
Counselor Ellen Heaton reported the
Torrey Relief Society doing well and the
sisters were united.
The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by Counselor Susan Turner as prospering,
and the sisters were desirous of doing their
part.
Morning session closed by singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Benediction by
Patriarch George Coleman.
Afternoon session commenced with the
usual opening exercises, after which the
General Board and Stake officers were sus-
tained by the conference.
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn spoke. He
said he wished to bear testimony that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living
God and that President Joseph F. Smith
was also a prophet of God. Felt that
mothers should cultivate faith in the child
and should lay hold of every blessing.
Sister Leah Blackburn was pleased to be
present at conference. Said it is not what
we hear but what we practice that is bene-
ficial. We should be what we profess to
be, we shall be judged by our works.
President H. M. Hansen felt to add
a word of encouragement. He always
enjoyed meeting with the sisters. We
had heard many good instructions at this
conference that would be profitable to carry
out in our lives. Felt to encourage the
sisters of this Stake of Zion in the work of
sericulture.
President Jane S. Coleman bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Latter-day work.
Patriarch George Coleman felt thankful
for the privilege of being present at con-
ference. Bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, knew it was of God. Asked
the blessing of the Lord upon the Relief
Society.
Singing, "Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Sister Bathsheba Grundy.
