BIRTHDAY AND SURPRISE.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, invited her own family,
to her home, December 23, 1901, it being
her seventieth birthday, and while assem-
bled she was surprised by a party of half a
hundred, who came to honor and show their
love and appreciation of her,
	The officers of the Relief Society, Stake
and Provo Wards, the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary officers, with their friends, went
en masse and surprised their beloved
president.
	After hand shaking and congratulations
a program was carried out. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by President David John. Singing,
“O, my Father.” Then a little recess for
visiting, after which President David John
gave a very appropriate address, praising
the sisters for their diligence in performing
their duties and labors of love. In his
mind he could not look upon man in any
position without woman, his wife, being
associated with him. He could not picture
anything in heaven, aside from the Father


[Column 1]
on the throne, then a woman clothed in
immortality and the robes of purity and
dignity. Remarked that he and Sister
John had lived happily together for forty-
one years.
	Sister Marilla Daniels congratulated
Brother and Sister John. Sister John,
our president, on her seventieth birthday.
	She had known Sister John for many
years and was thankful for her acquaint-
ance, valued her as one of the dearest and
truest friends. Spoke of Brother Joseph,
the prophet, saying he had done much for
the progress of women, and it meant all
womankind, everywhere in the world.
Spoke of the women of the world, how they
sacrificed their own comfort for the benefit
of others. She remembered well the first
time she ever saw Brother Joseph, she was
so inspired with everything he said or did.
She often went to his home and associated
with his family. His mind was constantly
busy, he would come home to his family
and friends at intervals. He was greatly
harrassed by persecution. Spoke of the
great work he accomplished in so short a
time. She blessed the sisters and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Joanna Billings felt that Sister John
was one of the chosen ones. She congra-
tulated President John on having such a
noble companion, and that his wives had
reared up a good family, who would never
bring the blush of shame, to their faces. She,
too, was acquainted with the Prophet, and
looked upon him with admiration. He had
the most noble bearing of any man she had
ever seen. She had been lead along in this
Church, and had never doubted the author-
ty of each of his successors. She believed
the Relief Society would be perpetuated
and we would find plenty to do on the other
side. Blessed us all.
	Sister Percia Bunnell said every time she
met with the sisters she felt uplifted. “Do
we realize fully, my sisters, the privilege we
enjoy in meeting with sisters who have the
Spirit of the Lord upon them?” She had
been blessed and healed many times under
the administration of the sisters.
	Sister Emily Cluff appreciated the kind-
ness of Sister John during the time of the
crusade, and said many good things of her
kindness and nobility of character.
	Sister Johnson spoke of her acquaintance
with Sister John and Her appreciation of her
advice in her duty of presiding in the First
Ward, Provo.
	Sister Brown, of the Second Ward, said
Sister John had always been a wise counselor
to the Relief Society sisters. There were so
few living today who were acquainted, per-
sonally, with the Prophet. She felt to cherish
every word that pertained to him. Hoped
that we would all fill our positions in right-
eousness.
	Eliza Taylor, president of the Third Ward,
said she had been associated with the Sisters
John, Sister Mary and Sister Jane, had
worked with them both in the organizations,
and she knew them to love them. She had
once dreamed of seeing the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and he told her that the principle of
plural marriage was verily true. She felt
that she would know him when she met him.
Her trials had made her a better woman.
“May we all claim the blessings that have
been promised us, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Margaret Watson, Fourth Ward,
had known and loved Brother and Sister
John since 1863, and she felt to bless them
and all assembled.

[Column 2]
	Sister Donnie Mecham, president of the
Y. L. M. I. A., prayed the choicest blessings
of heaven upon President John and his
whole family.
	Sister Cornelia Clayton, of the Primary
Association, said she prayed that Sister John
would have a renewal of life, and be able to
fill this honorable position of “Mother of
Mothers” in Zion. She had always had a
great desire to meet the Prophet Joseph. As
children they used to sit around the fire and
hear their father and mother talk of the
Prophet Joseph.
	Sister Jane John felt that Sister Mary was
greatly blessed in being born on the
Prophet’s birthday. She had known Sister
Mary before she was married, and they had
lived together in union. They had helped
each other.
	Sisters Agnes Farrer and John passed
through the sacred places together. She
felt thankful to associate with her and sisters.
She remembered having her bonnet trimmed
with black to mourn for the Prophet, and it
was the cause of much testimony of Joseph
to their associates When she was a child
eight years old she had seen the holy dress
of this people, just as she found it later.
“May God bless, us all. Amen.”
	Sister Malena Wilkins had known Brother
and Sister John for forty-one years. Felt it
an honor to be at her seventieth birthday.
The Prophet Joseph had blessed her when
she was a child. She had shed many tears
when reading of the great trials endured by
the Prophet, he had no peace all his life.
	Sister Benjamin Cluff addressed President
John and the society, and appreciated the
privilege of being here. She knew the
Prophet Joseph and had known all of the
succeeding prophets. She felt that President
John and his wives had been greatly blessed
in rearing their families in the celestial order
of marriage. She had been a Relief Society
worker for many years, had been greatly
blessed in her labors. She had had many
advantages and for twenty years she had one
or more of her children in the mission field.
The Latter-day Saint women could take
more true happiness than any others.
Prayed the Lord to bless this Stake and all
that belonged to them.
	Sister Electa Bullock thought that Brother
and Sister John were the loveliest couple
she had ever met when she first came to
Provo, and she had not changed her opinion
yet. Spoke of the great power that was in
the Tabernacle meeting the day before. She
felt like shouting hallelujah! She remem-
bered the Prophet Joseph Smith, was nine
years old when he was martyred. She re-
membered her first sight of the Prophet,
thought this a most auspicious occasion.
“May Sister John live long to be a blessing
to the Relief Society as well as to her
family.
	Sister Knudsen spoke of the son (David
John, Jun.) of this worthy couple, who was
on a mission at the present time.
	Brother Joseph Keeler, Counselor to
President John, spoke of the duties of the
Relief Society. “We could do more good as
an organized society than we could un-
organized. While we are assisting our
neighbors we assist ourselves. We cannot
build ourselves up alone, we are dependent
upon others as well as upon the Lord. Sis-
ter John is just the same good looking
matron that she was thirty years ago.”
Wished her many happy rerurns of the day.
One great consolation was that we should
meet in the other world, this life was only a

[Column 3]
little niche cut out of Eternity. We should
love each other and our fellow men forever.
“May God grant us this blessing. Amen.”
	Sister Susa Y. Gates congratulated Sister
John. Spoke of President Young saying
that the life of this people should be pro-
longed, and that Sister John enjoyed the
distinction of being loved by all, not having
any enemies. President George Q. Cannon
said one thing he longed for was the love of
his brothers and sisters, and that had been
in a measure withheld from him. To love
all was one of the greatest gifts bestowed
upon any one. She knew of no one more
beloved by women than President John was.
She knew something of the hindrances that
women often met with, all the work of
women and men on this earth is to help
others. Help to lift the burdens of others and
ours will slip away. What would this
Church be without the organizations for
women? Said she was going out into the
world, and it was a great sorrow to her to
leave her mountain home. Asked the sisters
to always remember them while they were
away in the world. Each one of us can do
much good. Prayed for Sister John, that
she might live as long as life was sweet unto
her. The richness of the blessings of the
Lord would be ever poured out upon Brother
and Sister John and their children.
	Sister Olive Bean thought of the many
opportunities we have to know each other.
Realized the trial it was for Sister Gates to
leave us. In 1868, when the Smoot family
came to Provo, Brother and Sister John were
among her first acquaintances in Provo.
Blessed Brother and Sister John and their
family.
	Brother Harvey H. Cluff congratulated
Sister John on her seventieth birthday, sur-
rounded by this august assembly of women
and the few favored brethren who were
here. Spoke of his experience as a mission-
ary away from home, and had found much
consolation in fasting and prayer in all of his
great trials. The sweet testimony of the
Holy Spirit called down upon us by fasting and
prayer was the sweetest that could be ex-
perienced.
	Sister Mary John tried to express her
appreciation of the true expressions of love
that had been given her today. She loved
her neighbors and every body. She was
very glad for all these blessings, and she was
too full of emotions to say more. She
blessed all present in the name of the Lord.
	Sister Holbrook spoke of what good, true
neighbors Brother and Sister John had been
to her when they first came to Provo sixteen
years ago. Brother Holbrook sent his re-
gards and regretted that he could not be
present.
	Sister Mary Boyden who had with the
assistance of the amiable daughters and sons
of the family managed this beautiful gather-
ing and arranged the program, invited the
guests into a sumptuous banquet, to which all
did ample justice, and partook of with
thankful hearts.
