SNOWFLAKES.
Oh ! the feathery flakes are coming down,
Over the mountain, valley and town;
O’er the lowly, cot and the palace proud, 
Enwraping nature in ermine shroud.
In the semblance of death the earth now sleeps,
While the sky these frozen teardrops weeps.

But we used to say, in the olden day,
That “Grandmother Goose” had come that way,
And was emptying' out her feather beds
To cover the drooping lily heads,
To keep our buttercups from getting cold,
From the blighting frosts of the storm king bold.

When out in the yard, with upturned face,
Watching them flutter in waving grace,
Letting them fall on our cheeks, in our eyes,
Enjoying the half expected surprise,
Till a tender voice, with note of alarm,
Would bid us within, to the fire warm.

Then, pressing our faces against the pane—
Gazing above to that vast domain,
Where myriad specks could be seen on high,
Most wonderful then to a childish eye,
So silently, slowly falling below— 
We longed of this marvel more to know.

So marvelous ! Indeed it seemed to be
A deep, unfathomed mystery.
Those fairy tales could not wholly deceive, 
Our simple faith, made us rather believe 
That the God of Heaven, who-lived above,
Had sent these messages with His love.
Ellis R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
GLEANINGS AND THOUGHTS ON
WOMAN'S WORK.
	It is claimed by some that the line
drawn between man and woman was de-
clared by Father Adam. I can see noth-
ing to base such an assertion upon, but
nevertheless the line is there, and I firmly
believe that woman, not man, is mostly
to blame for this; furthermore I believe that
it will take all the united energies of intel-
ligent womanhood, with a great amount of
vim and patience, to undo this great evil.
Hence so many papers and discussions on
the “Woman Question.”
	I came to the conclusion that a few ideas
and gleanings from one in the more com-
mon walks of life might not be entirely
uninteresting. One writer says there is al-
ways more to be said than has been on the
other side of almost any question. It is
said also that “Individuals think, but mil-
lions drift.” I sometimes think that there
are many of us, while we may feel as
though we were doing all in our power for

[Column 2]
the advancement of our sex, that fire really
drifting along with the great sea of human-
ity, seemingly blind in the great rush and
confusion around them to the great good
that they actually might accomplish.
	The question sometimes arises in my
mind. “Are we not often scattering our
energies in too many different channels,
not concentrating them enough on one or
two worthy objects ?” Just so are we not
often found reading much more than we
really think, thereby feeding our own
minds continually on other people’s
thought, hence losing our own originality
and, I might add, diseasing the mind ?
It is said that the keynote of the present
age is discontent. Allowing this to be
true, (and I believe it to be true) it is all
right as long as it carries us along in the
right direction, thus making it wholesome.
	I believe the Consumer’s League, so
ardently espoused by our honored guest of
last month, opens up the field for a noble
work; but, again, have we not here in our
midst that which leads to the “sweat
box" evil?
	Not long since a man about sixty years
of age was allowed to take in holy wedlock
for a wife a young girl with no very great
mental power. Pray tell me what would
that lead to ?
	Many tired mothers say, “I never read,
I cannot, I never have time. I have all I
can do to bring my children up properly.’’
	Do they ever think that in order to do
their duty they should seek bodily rest,
with a little mental labor, a medicine that
will bring, with the rest, smiles and sun-
shine for the home? We know that the
elements of home have a great deal to do
with the future lives of the children.
Woman, especially the mother, is the cen-
ter attraction. Again it is said since the
dawn of history the center and source of
life has been the home. All civilization
and reform, all progress has had its origin
in the home.
	Now let us go back. Mrs. Jones men-
tioned one very great evil, and that was
the scattering of disease germs from these,
sweat boxes in the large cities. This to
me seemed very reasonable and is indeed
a very great reason why we should lend
our assistance in this direction. But again
I ask, have we not dangers here at the
present moment equally as great ? From
observation, or gleaning, if you like, I
have thought if we had some method of
finding out places where there were con-
tagious diseases in the houses, there would
be far less sickness and death.
	There is much more that I might men-
tion casually leading to this great evil, but
I fear I may become wearisome.
	May we so unite our energies and self-
control that the glory of our work may
shine forth to all womankind wherever
they are and in whatever station of life;
that warmth and enthusiasm may enter
their hearts for good, and that we may
continue in a mutual advancement until
our lives may be only like a pleasant
dream.
	There is one thing more in particular

[Column 3]
that I would like to make mention of, and
that is the canker that is eating gradually
all the life-sacredness out of the marriage
vows. The many desolate homes and the
many newspaper reports of divorce cases
verify this. To me the remedy seems to
be the higher education of woman.
	It is a happy faculty
		Of woman far and wide, 
	To turn a cot or palace
		Into something else beside;
	Where brothers, sons and husbands
		With willing footsteps come, 
	A place of rest where love abounds,
		A perfect kingdom –– home. 
	Words cannot express the earnestness I
feel on this subject, but we look ahead for
a glorious future; this is our hope and
compensation for the past.
A glory shines across the coming years,
		The glory of a race grown great and free,
	'Twas seen by poets, sages, saints and seers,
		Whose vision, glimpsed the dawn that was,
			to be.
	A shining shore is by the Future Sea,
		Whereon each man shall stand among his
			peers
	As equal and to none shall bend the knee,
		Awake, my soul, shake off your doubts and
			fears.
	Behold the hosts of darkness fade and flee,
		Before the magic of the morning's face
	And hear the sweet and wondrous melody,
		That floats to us from far-off golden days. 
	It is the choral song of liberty,
		It is the anthem of the coming race.
