SARAH TIBBITTS.
	Sarah Tibbitts, who died recently in this city,
was born in Harrington Co., Cumberland, Eng-
land, July 6, 1814, and was therefore in the eigh-
ty-eighth year of her age at the time of her death.
	It was through a most miraculous cure of can-
cer in the breast by the administration of the
Mormon Elders that she received the Gospel and
joined the Church.
	She and her husband, John Tibbitts, were
among the few who first heard and investigated
the Gospel when it was first preached in that part
of England. They with their four children
emigrated to America in 1851 settling at New
Orleans for something over a year. After leaving
there the family went to Council Bluffs to join
the Mormon emigrants and crossed the plains in
ox teams, arriving in Salt Lake City in the fall of
1852, September 11. They settled in the Second
Ward, where they lived until the death of Brother
Tibbitts, which occurred January 1, 1881. They
had lived together more than fifty years.
	Sister Tibbitts was always a staunch adherent
to her principles. She was most highly respected
and beloved for her many acts of kindness and
charity, especially in sickness, many, many times
responding to calls by getting out of her bed to
ride miles in a lumber wagon. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society for many years. In fact
she gained the affectionate name of “Mother
Tibbitts,’’ till later in life she was called “grand-
ma” by everybody.
	She was the mother of seven children. One
son only, James L. Tibbitts. of this city, survives
her. She leaves twenty-one grandchildren,
thirty-eight great grandchildren and several great
great grandchildren.
	Her funeral was held in the Second Ward
meeting house in this city. Among the speakers
were Bishop Clawson, Isaac Brockbank, Brother
Wilson and others. The following beautiful
hymns, great favorites of hers, were sweetly
rendered by the choir: “There is sweet rest in
heaven” and “Farewell all earthly honors.”
		E. C. T. 
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”


[Column 1]
