TWO SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	A very happy social affair was given by
Mrs. Elizabeth J Stevenson to a number
of ladies, old friends of hers, who by invi-
tation met at her cosy home and spent the
afternoon in pleasant conversation, renew-
ing old time intimacies and contrasting the
present with the early days in the valley.
A sumptuous dinner was one of the fea-
tures of the visit, to which all did ample
justice. The tables were prettily decorated
with carnations and smilax, and the snowy
linen and elegant china made the variety
of viands still more tempting.
	At the head of the table was seated the
veteran president of the Relief Society,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, who pro-
bounced the blessing upon the food.
	Twenty-one guests were invited and
nineteen were present Of these Mrs.
Lucy B. Young and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
had recently returned from foreign mis-
sions, and naturally their experiences were
an interesting part of the conversation.
	Mrs. Stevenson was assisted in receiving
by her daughter, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, and
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Ezra T. Stevenson.
The young girls who helped serve were
Miss Gardner, Miss Clark and Miss Wil-
cox. The affair was very enjoyable and
was decidedly a social success. 

	On Wednesday, December 4, 1901, Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson gave a family dinner
party in honor of the recent marriage of
her son, Ezra T. to Miss Richards.
Twenty guests received invitations, of the
number were Bishop Robert T. Burton and
wife, Dr. Heber John Richards and wife,
Mr. Walter E. Wilcox and wife, Dr. C.
F. Wilcox and wife, Mr. James Stevenson
and wife and Mrs. Ezra T. Clark. All


are relatives of the family or connnected
by marriage.
	The gathering was a most enjoyable one
and will be remembered as such for years to
come by all who participated therein, as a
pleasing reminder of the hospitable hostess,
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson, who has been
accustomed to entertaining largely in the
lifetime of her distinguished husband,
Elder Edward Stevenson, a well known
character in Church history.


[Column 1]
BRIEF SKETCH OF SISTER P. C. YOUNG.
	Sister Phebe Clark Young, who recently
departed this life, was a women of strong
and independent character, a woman of
sound principle and well read, not only in
the scriptures but in history, ancient and
modern, of which she was very fond. Her
gifts of conversation and powers of ex-
pression were excellent, and she was clear
and sound in reasoning and in judgment.
Summing up her virtues and her endur-
ance of trials, hardship and suffering, one
recalls the poet’s words as expressing best
and in fervent words the thoughts we have
of this departed sister and mother in Israel:
“A noble type of good,
Heroic womanhood.”
	Sister Phebe was born September 15,
1830, at Hardway, England, and grew to
womanhood among the delightful scenes of
that beautiful country. She heard and be-
lieved the Gospel in her native land and
was baptized by Elder Wm. Eddington
and emigrated to Utah in 1851—the only
one of a family of nine who accepted the
Gospel. This young girl crossed the plains
with ox teams, although she walked her-
self all the way from Keokuk to Salt Lake
City.
	After arriving here she became ac-
quainted with Phineas H. Young, brother
of President Brigham Young and the fol-
lowing year they were united in marriage.
Mrs. Young was a devoted and exemplary
wife and raised a large family of children.
During the time her husband was Bishop
of the Second Ward in this city she en-
deared herself to all in his charge by her
large heartedness and universal courtesy
to all who came for counsel or assistance.
The first Sunday School in Farmer’s Ward
was organized in the home of Brother and
Sister Young, and the first Relief Society
in the Second Ward was organized by
Bishop P. H Young in his own home
while he presided in the ward. Under their
roof many were helped in sickness by
medical aid and the administrations of the
ordinances of the laying on of hands for
healing of the sick and afflicted. Such
helpfulness is not soon forgotten and there
are many to recall similar deeds of kind-
ness from Sister Young since the death of
her husband.
	She was the mother of nine children,
six of whom survive her, and she had great
success in training her children in the
spirit of the Gospel. She was a regular
attendant at meetings, and was for many
years treasurer of the Relief Society in the
Second Ward, to which office she was set
apart Sep. 3. 1891, and resigned her office
Feb. 10, 1898. She was set apart presi-
dent of the Second Ward Primary Associa-
tion in 1883, and continued in that position
until 1891. In whatever place or posi-
tion she faithfully fulfilled the duties per-
taining thereto.
	Sister Young was for eight years a

[Column 2]
member of the Utah Woman’s Press Club,
in which she took an active part. She
held the office of vice-president one year
and treasurer two years, was nearly always
a member of the program committee and
never failed to do whatever was expected
of her. She was familiar with the topics
of the times, kept herself well informed on
all general matters, and although over
seventy years of age at the time of her
death she had, up to that period, an excel-
lent memory and the use of all her mental
and bodily faculties. She contracted a
severe cold which brought on pneumonia
and though she was not thought danger-
ously ill, and friends were hopeful, yet the
end came unexpectedly and she passed
peacefully away on the morning of Decem-
ber 20, 1901.
"The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
And lighting the sleeping below;
But the light of the stars is cold and faint,
To the glory she dreameth now.”

“Are they dreaming, the sleepers pale and still?
For their faces are rapt and calm,
As though they were treading the Holy Hill,
And harkening the angels’ psalm.”
	Sister Young's funeral was held in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
23, Bishop Heber Iverson presiding. The
casket was covered with beautiful flowers,
the gifts of loving relatives and friends,
and the music and singing by the ward
choir was sweet and harmonious. The
speakers were Counselor J. Galligher, of the
2nd ward, Mrs. E. B. Wells President Joseph
E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
Dr. Seymour B. Young, President of the
Seventies, and Bishop Iverson, all of whom
spoke in the highest praise of Sister Young
and exhorted her children and grand chil-
dren to follow her noble and righteous ex-
ample. “And so he giveth his beloved
sleep.”
E. B. W.


