WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US. 

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah. 
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	By special invitation the December meet-
ing was held at the residence of Mrs. I.
Cameron Brown, at which, by request, our
charming hostess favored the club with a
realistic and entertaining paper on the
“Life and Works of Frances Burney.”
	The names af Mrs. S. O. B. Cummings,
Mrs. Rachel Miller and Dr. Orielle Curtis
were presented for membership. Vote car-
ried. In behalf of the club a vote of
thanks was tendered Mrs. Brown, who has
upon different occasions entertained the
club so generously.
	At the January meeting, on motion of
C. C. R. Wells, the president appointed
Mesdames R. B. Pratt, E. R. Shipp and
L. D. Alder a committee to prepare suitable
resolutions, congratulating the U. W. P.
Club, and Mrs. I. Cameron Brown (one of
its members) who is at present the recipient
of Congressional honors. Another motion
was made that the same committee make
honorable mention of the 75th birthday of

[Column 2]
Zina D. H. Young, one of our members,
and honored president of the N. W. R. S.,
and that such resolutions be sent to the
ladies named, and be recorded in the
minutes. Carried.
	Mrs Antoinette Brown Kinney was re-
ceived as a member.
	A paper on the Single Tax was read by
Mrs. R. B. Pratt, which caused much
lively discussion.
	At the February meeting Mrs. Pratt
continued her paper on the same subject,
the discussion again becoming interesting,
and on motion it was continued to another
meeting. The subject of Parliamentary
Law was also continued.
	The president stated that she had re-
ceived a letter from the Countess Annie d’
Montaigu, asking for information concern-
ing the club, to publish in an Eastern
magazine. This shows that the club is
becoming well known. The name of
Margaret A. Caine appears at this meeting.
	At the March meeting Miss S. L. Monroe
was received as a member.
	By previous invitation the April meet-
ing was held at the residence of Mrs. S. L.
Dickinson. Dr. Elliot was introduced as
the guest of the evening. She entertained
the club with interesting facts in the life
and labors of Miss Barton. Gave the
origin of the Red Cross. A letter was
read from Mrs. Brown, written in Washing-
ton.
	Miss Sybil Stewart was the guest at
the June meeting. Mrs. Emma J. Mc-
Vicker was received as a member.
	July 1, the June meeting was held at
the residence of the president, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp. It was a delightful summer
evening, and the occasion was one long to
be remembered. We were honored by the
presence, as visitors, of Mrs. Jennings,
president of the Utah Federation of
Women’s Clubs, of local fame, and the
noted suffrage speaker of national reputa-
tion, Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates. Mrs.
McVicker spoke on her visit to Denver,
after which the visitors spoke interestingly
at some length.
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown gave a talk on
her recent sojourn in Washington. At the
earnest request of the club Miss Yates gave
a graphic and vivid account of her visit in
China.
	In response to the kindly invitation of
Mrs. Rachel Miller the July meeting was
held at her home, Mrs. Mary J. Lambert
and Mrs. Martha Miller were received as
members. A critic was appointed. This
had long been the desire of the club. Mrs.
McVicker was the first to hold this posi-
tion.
	An invitation from the Ladies’ Literary
Club was read to the U. W. P. C. mem-
bers to be present at their opening day
exercises, which would include a reception
to the retiring president.
	At the September meeting Dr. Curtis
gave an interesting account of her summer
vacation. Mrs. Mary J. Lambert, after
reading a poem on the beautiful Island of

[Column 3]
Hawaii, by request spoke in that musical
language.
	The annual meeting held in October was
devoted to character representations. The
officers for the ensuing year were also in-
stalled.
	The names of Maria Miller Johnson,
Julia Ivins McDonald and Augusta Joyce
Crocheron were presented as candidates for
honorary membership, and received by
unanimous vote. A committee was
appointed to prepare a book of all the
officers and members of the club, past and
present.
	At the November meeting Miss Mae
Taylor was received as a member.
	At the December meeting Mrs. Emily
S. Richards was received as a member.
	The February meeting, 1897, was held
at the home of its president, Mrs. Ruth
M. Fox. The birthday of our honored
Mrs. E. B. Wells was fittingly observed.
Mrs. Wells gave a talk on her Eastern
trip, and the club presented her with a
small token of esteem and appreciation.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp entertained the club
for the March meeting at her home on
Center Street. Miss A. M. Beecher was
the guest of honor. A large number, of
guests and club members were present to
greet her. In response to the request of
the ladies Miss Beecher gave an informal
talk on topics of interest to all; Economics,
the influence of women in politics, and
the political status of the Eastern woman,
each was touched upon.
	At the June meeting a program in honor
of Queen Victoria’s 60th Jubilee was car-
ried out as follows: “Victoria as a girl,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox; Victoria as a wife, Dr.
R. B. Pratt; Victoria as a mother, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze; Victoria as a queen, Mrs. E
B. Wells; Victoria’s Jubilee poem, Mrs.
L. D. Alder. Mrs. Wells presented an
invitation from the National Press Club,
asking the U. W. P. C. to send a delegate
to the meeting to be held at Nashville,
October 25.
	The July program of 1897 was in com-
memoration of the Utah pioneers. The
first paper, “The Pioneers,” was by Miss
Laura Hyde, “The Jubilee” was by Mrs.
Fox. Dr. Orielle Curtis was appointed
special correspondent for the Review, by
request of its editor, Mrs. Bradley.
		(Continued.)


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1902 
No. 11


