WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
Madame President and Officers, of the
	National Council, Delegates, Repre-
	sentatives and Friends.

	We have the honor to submit to you at
this time the report of the National
Woman’s Relief Society from the last
Triennial session of the Council, in Febru-
ary, 1899, to the present Triennial, Febru-
ary, 1902, inclusive.
	I am most happy to be able to state that
the growth of this organization has been
greater during the last three years, numer-
cally and otherwise, than heretofore dur-
ing the same period of time, and that a
deeper sense of the purposes, scope and
breadth of the work, as originally intended
by its founders, is another self-evident fact.
To the advantages and opportunity opened
to women more recently because of the
advancement made every where in educa-
tion of a better and more practical nature,
this more rapid growth may be largely
due, or, shall we say, to the awakening
of both men and women to a higher sense
of the responsibilities resting upon them as
part and parcel of the world’s great com-
monwealth?
	However, we need not deal with causes,
but simply state conditions, as they have
developed during the interim of the three
years. From the ranks of our society
membership more women have been called
into active service by being placed in posi-
tions of trust that would necessarily call
out latent powers in the individual, and
this, we must admit, is always helpful to
the person, the society and the community.
	Many more branches of the organization
have been started, all under the super-
vision of the general officers, but each
equipped with the respective offices of
president, vice-presidents, secretaries and
treasurer, and the various committees
necessary as helps, generally among us
called teachers. Each separate society has
its own fund and accumulates means in
such ways as are practicable; for instance,
voluntary donations by members form the
nucleus, but working meetings for sewing,
quilting and making up new material,
bazars, concerts and dancing parties under
the auspices of the society, help to make
an amount sufficient for all needful ex-
penses. Means thus accumulated is some-
times used for a special purpose, stipulated
for beforehand, so that all understand; but
all collections from whatever sources, and
disbursements for whatever purposes, are
regularly reported in business meetings, in
each branch society, so that no one need be
in doubt about expenditures. It is really
wonderful what has been accomplished in
this way even in remote localities. Each
branch society has a legal status under the
laws of the State, and a board of trustees
to manage its affairs, with the co-operation
and approval of its members. Hundreds
of these branches own halls of their own in
which to meet, and for purposes of work
and storing of various articles owned by
the society. Some have built amusement
halls for local entertainments, concerts and
so on. Many have granaries well filled
with wheat against a day of scarcity and
famine, and altogether the society, is in a
flourishing condition as to its general status
and welfare.
	In the General Conference of the Society
held October, 1898, at a business meeting

[Column 2]
of the members, who had many of them
come long distances to attend, for instance
from Mexico, Canada and far off States, as
well as those nearer Utah, where the head-
quarters of the society is established in
Salt Lake City, the discussion of ways and
means to maintain headquarters and to car-
ry on the missionary work necessary and
to defray the expenses of such a great
organization, culminated in a proposition
to collect annually from each member ten
cents for a general fund, this collection
to be made on the 17th of March, the anni-
versary of the first organization.
	In March, 1899, the first collection was
made, and it has been continued since,
each succeeding year. By this means calls
for special donations have been avoided
and the result has been most gratifying
for every one knows how difficult it is to
collect money to defray expenses of print-
ing, stationery, stamps and those little
incidentals that are unavoidable in carry-
ing on the work of even small organiza-
tions.
	In April of that year, too, the society
commenced collecting money by voluntary
donation towards erecting a Woman’s
Building in Salt Lake City for the use and
purposes of the General Society, the land
having been given to the society for the
building in a most desirable locality on
the Main Street, opposite the Salt Lake
Temple. There is not yet sufficient money
donated but there is a good prospect that
all needed will be forthcoming in the near
future, or when it shall be deemed expe-
dient to commence the building.
	The officers of the General Society and
their co-laborers in all the several Stakes
and branches look forward with delightful
anticipation to the completion of this
Woman’s Building, and expect to have
within its walls a library and bureau of
information, that will be in the best sense
educational, and be open to all members of
the society, and where lectures may be
given by distinguished professors in all
branches of science, art and literature, and
on general topics.
	These hopes and ambitions can only be
given the briefest mention in a report of
this kind, but this society has recently
introduced in a small way lectures and
talks upon suggestive subjects, that will
lead to a broad field of culture in this
direction. Lectures on hygiene and
domestic science are at present perhaps the
most popular, but such as pertain to home
and motherhood have always been con-
sidered a legitimate part of the Relief
Society movement.
	In the report made to the Council in
1899, casual mention was made of the
nurses class or classes; since then much
has been done In this line of charity work,
and should receive special mention on ac-
count of its great value to the society and
the public weal. A call was made in Salt
Lake City and County for girls and young
women volunteers to study nursing and
receive training under the auspices of the
Relief Society, so that they would be quali-
fied to give skilled attendance to the sick
poor. One hundred or more responded to
the call, they were also instructed in cook-
ing and serving food for invalids. At the
close of the term about one hundred young
women received certificates to practice in
the profession of nurses from the medical
examiners, who have since highly approved
of their splendid work in attending the

[Column 3]
sick. The nurses’ classes have been
under the direction of superintendents, ap-
pointed by the officers of the society to take
charge of the work, though the instruction
was given free by a woman physician
who called to her aid the most eminent of
the medical fraternity in the city, to give
lectures, now and then, to the classes in
her charge.
	In connection with the nurses depart-
ment of work in the Relief Society, there
is an emergency closet well supplied with
clothing for mother and child, cots and
every convenience for the comfort and
cleanliness of the patient, and all that is
needful to make the burden lighter all
around.
	There have also been nurses’ classes in
connection with obstetrics taught in other
parts of Utah and in Arizona, Idaho and
Mexico, and it is the intention of the
General Society to extend this class of
training for nurses until every society has
skilled nurses to call to its aid in times of
sickness among the poor, that they may
have the benefit of the same intelligent
nursing and care as those who can afford to
pay for skilled attendance.
	In the society official visits are made by
at least two members of the General Board
from time to time to conferences of the
society in different localities, and uniform
instruction is given, so that all may work
in harmony, each Stake, as it is termed,
consisting of two or more branches, re-
ceiving at least one or two visits a year,
even though the distance is great. During
the year 1899 the branches of the society in
England, Scotland and Wales were visited,
and more recently the Scandinavian coun-
tries have been visited by sisters from
Utah. Mrs. Lucy B. Young was appointed
while residing temporarily in Germany to
preside over the branches of the Relief
Society in that country and also in
Switzerland. The branches in the Sand-
wich Islands are also presided over by a
president from Utah. Nearly every,
branch, if not every, one in the United
States, Canada and Mexico has been
visited during this last year, and very much
has been done for the last thirty years by
official correspondence and through the col-
umns of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Among other things, the Relief Society
during the last three years has been doing
some active work in the interest of the
movement for universal peace and arbitra-
tion; but it is impossible to enumerate all
that this society has undertaken. The work
is increasing and multiplying as well as
the membership, and it scarcely seems
possible to do all that is really desirable,
but our women are zealously striving to
live by the Golden Rule, and do the duty
that lies nearest and walk in the light of
truth and follow the pattern set by the
blessed Savior and Redeemer of the world
of mankind.
	This assembly of representative women
are, we are sure, most of them aware, of
the loss sustained by our society in the
death of our beloved and revered president,
Mrs Zina D. H. Young, but though we mourn
her absence and miss her gentle ministra-
tions and sublime teachings and counsel,
yet we feel comforted in the blessed
assurance of her having passed from death
unto life, and that she has entered into the
rest prepared for the faithful, and joined
the innumerable company on the other side
where there is no more sorrow or mourn-


[Column 1]
ing forevermore. And we of the society,
her co-workers, who loved her so tenderly,
will ever hold her memory precious and
strive to emulate her noble example of
patience, humility, and the “charity that
never faileth.”
	In her successor who has been elected to
fill the vacancy, we feel the same un-
swerving faith and confidence; we know
her sterling integrity in the work to which
she has consecrated almost her entire life,
and we commend her to the officers and
members of the National Council of
Women, and feel assured they will find in
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith a woman emi-
nently qualified for the position to which
she has been elected by the members of the
society over whom she has the honor to
preside. She is the only woman now liv-
ing who was present when the Relief
Society was organized in the State of Illi-
nois sixty years ago on the 17th of next
March, 1902. The anniversary will be
celebrated throughout the entire society in
a manner suited to the memorable occasion.
	Salt Lake City was highly favored last
summer in having for its guest of honor
the president of the International Council
of Women, Mrs. May Wright Sewall; it
was a rare treat and a pleasure that will
not soon be forgotten. Committees from
each of the two National Societies affiliated
with the Council, the National Woman’s
Relief Society and the Young Ladies
National Mutual Improvement Association,
had charge of the arrangements for the
entertainment of the distinguished lady,
and among other pleasing features of her
visit, Mrs. Sewall addressed an audience of
seven or eight thousand people in the great
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City on the Sab-
bath day, on her favorite theme, Inter-
nationalism. We all regretted that her
stay was so brief and we are sorry that we
could not have been favored with a visit
from our honored president of the National
Council, Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney,
but we sincerely hope to have that honor
in the near future, and trust that it will be
our pleasant privilege to hear Mrs. Gaffney
address as large an audience in the Taber-
nacle as assembled on the occasion of Mrs.
Sewall’s public address.
	We are proud to welcome to our moun-
tain home, women who are giving their
best efforts to the amelioration of the con-
ditions of womankind, and the advance-
ment and enlightenment of the world at
large. Our best endeavors shall be given
to strengthen the ties of love that shall event-
ually bring about the reign of peace on
earth and good will to all mankind.


