MARICOPA STAKE.

Report of the conference of the Maricopa
Stake of Zion, held in the Relief Society
hall, December 26, 1901, Counselor Fran-
celle E. Robson presiding, sickness having
prevented our president, Mabel A. Hakes,
attending.
	Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
Reports were given from four out of six
wards. Those that were given stated that
all were alive to their duties as far as pos- 
sible. There had been and still was some
sickness. Quite an amount of wheat had
been put up. The Mesa Ward had held
their first Fair, and tithing had been paid
on all the proceeds. The Woman’s Build-
ing fund was spoken upon and a call was

[Column 2]
made for donations. All felt encouraged
to go ahead in this great work.
	The Stake had one of our beloved sisters
taken from us by death. On the 14th of
October the second counselor, Sister
Sarah Melissa Johnson. Sister Melissa J.
Hanson was called to fill the vacancy.
	There were many testimonies borne,
good encouragement given, all feeling that
it was one of the best conferences we had
ever had.
	Adjourned for three months.
			Anna E. Fuller, Sec.
ALPINE STAKE.
	The third quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held in
Lehi, October 25, 1901.
	Sisters Elizabeth Stevenson and Susan
Grant, of the General Board, were present,
also the Stake Presidency and full repre-
sentation of the various wards.
	Meeting opened at ten a.m., President
Rebecca Standring presiding. Singing,
“High on the mountain top.” Prayer by
Brother William Southwick. Singing,
“Come, come ye Saints.” Roll called,
minutes of the morning session of former
conference read and accepted.
	President Standring made some opening
remarks in her usual kind way and ex-
pressed her pleasure at meeting the sisters
in conference.
	President Sarah Foutz represented the
Pleasant Grove ward; Linden was repre-
sented by President Martha Woolley;
Manila by Counselor Swenson; Alpine by
President Sarah Marsh; First Ward,
American Fork, President Orpha Robinson;
Second Ward by President Sarah S
Chipman; Third Ward by Counselor
Elizabeth Varney; Fourth Ward by Presi-
dent Alice T. Steele.
	These are new wards and the officers are
young in the management, but are full of
faith, and enthusiastic of their success they
have already commenced gathering grain
and building granaries. They are pro-
gressing finely and find their labors easy
and their burdens light when they have
the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Elizabeth Berry reported Cedar
Fort Relief Society.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi Ward
She was pleased that Sister Standring was
president of Alpine Stake, yet she is still
president of the Lehi Ward and she is the
right woman in the right place, and we are
very glad to sustain her.
	Sister Susan Grant addressed the meet-
ing for a short time. Was well acquainted
with Sister Standring and congratulated
the sisters on having such a president in
our newly organized Stake. Had rejoiced
in the reports and in the testimonies of the
sisters. Said the teachers should be the
best of women, full of integrity and dis-
cernment, that they can bless those whom
they visit.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson was pleased
to meet the sisters. Remembered when
American Fork was only a small village
and now it was divided into four wards.
There was no greater calling than to be a
teacher, and urged the teachers to seek the
Spirit of the Lord in all their duties. This
is the kingdom of God, let us never say
a word against His Holy Priesthood. Spoke
of President Brigham Young, he always
sustained the Relief Society, also all the
other presidents. The sisters sometimes


[Column 1]
get discouraged, “but persevere in the good
work and the Lord will bless you.”
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by President
Stephen L. Chipman.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-
ing, “Earth with her ten thonsand
flowers.” Prayer by Brother Larkins.
Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.”
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley could testi-
fy that we never meet but the Lord blesses
us. We are prone to evil and the sooner
we bring our minds to the mind and will
of the Lord, the greater will be our reward.
These organizations are by the power and
inspiration of the Lord, and it is necessary
that we are guided by the Lord in all our
actions, we must have charity and do good
to our enemies.
	Minutes of afternoon session of former
conference read and accepted.
	Sisier Elizabeth Stevenson said, “This
society is for the young mothers to learn
their duties and learn to raise their chil-
dren. This is a self-sacrificing society.
Our daughters should learn to be good
housekeepers in every respect. This is the
parent work of the sisters and we know
that the Lord is at the head. Humility is
the watchword, let us teach our sons and
daughters how to live and raise their chil-
dren in the fear of the Lord. They are
jewels sent from the home of our Father,
teach them the laws of life and health, and
remember that the responsibility falls on
you mothers.” Encouraged the sisters not
to neglect their Temple work and urged
them to take the EXPONENT and read it,
and so keep posted in the Relief Society
	President Stephen L. Chipman had been
delighted with the meetings. The Relief
Society is appreciated by the presidents
and by the Bishops Thought that the
teachers should seek the Lord in prayer be-
fore going on their rounds. “He will
come to your rescue in the hour of need.’,
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs always felt
well to converse on the principles of the
Gospel, if we are doing all we can we are
blest of the Lord
	President A. J. Evans said: “Unless we
remember some of the good things that
have been said and reduce them to practice
in our lives we shall get little good. The
Lord said ‘Seek and ye shall find,’ and He
will reward openly all who seek him in
secret. The organization of the Church
has stood for seventy-one years. It stands
firm as adamant and will go on to triumph-
al success.
	Bishop Cutler was sure that the Relief
Society was in strict line of their duty.
The Bishops fully realize the importance of
these organizations and it is for us to con-
form to their requirements. We have much
to be thankful for. We will not only be ex-
alted ourselves but we can help those of
our friends who have passed away. We
should make our homes attractive to our
children and keep them from evil ways
and evil places.
	Brother Larkins read from Sec. 84,
Doctrine and Covenants, pertaining to the
two priesthoods bestowed upon our breth-
ren, and spoke a short time on sustaining
our husbands and brothers and. encourage
them to do their duty and God will bless
them on their missions or wherever they
may be called to labor.
	President Standring said her heart had

[Column 2]
rejoiced and her spirit had been fed this
day. Felt thankful for these mothers and
these daughters that have been given to
her to feed. Had proved the Lord for
many years, and asked him to bless the
sisters with the graces of the Gospel. The
teachers are saviors to those whom they
visit, they can do them much good.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.” Bene-
diction by President A. J. Evans.
