Hamlin Garland's Trilogy?A Son of the Middle Border, A Daughter of the Middle Border, Trail-Makers of the Middle Border By Lois V. Hales
Our most consistent contributor to the pioneer history of the Western frontier is Hamlin Garland. Critics say that if the 'great American novel' is ever written, it is probable that it will be Hamlin Garland who will write it. Mr. J. M. Chapple states that even though he might be in a city hotel with Mr. Garland he feels as if he were sitting in the home of a sturdy pioneer. Mr. Garland is particularly fitted to write of the pioneer days on the Western frontier. He was born in West Salem, Wisconsin, in 1860. He grew up in the woods of Wisconsin and the prairies of Iowa, and at one time took up "a claim" in Dakota. A great traveler, he is intimately acquainted with our country from Alaska to Central America. He was educated at the Cedar Valley Seminary and began to write in 1877. His pen is still busy. At the present time he is especially interested in the American Indian, whose origin he is endeavoring to fathom.
A Son of the Middle Border relates the story of Hamlin Garland's boyhood days on the Western frontier, and has become an American classic. It tells vividly of his early literary enthusiasms and his plunge into letters. Many critics say it is unquestionably his masterpiece.
A Daughter of the Middle Border carries his autobiography down to a later date, and narrates parallel with it the history of the charming girl who became his wife.
Trail-Makers of the Middle Border tells the story of Garland's father and mother and of the time in which they lived. When in the winter of '49 glowing tales of the golden sands, the flourishing prairies, the green pastures, and the lush waters of the West reached Richard Graham (in reality, Hamlin Garland's father) he left the bleak, drab farm in Vermont and took up a farm in southwestern Wisconsin. Richard soon fell in love with the pretty daughter of his Scotch neighbor. Years of home-building followed. During the summer months he labored at sowing and reaping. In the winter he joined the lumberjacks in their logging adventures on the waters of the turbulent Wisconsin River. Then came the Civil War. Richard joined the forces of the Union and "served it vaguely and General Grant very definitely." One of the finest things about Trail-Makers of the Middle Border is Garland's description of the Civil War and the part General Grant played in it. He thus describes Grant: "The silent, brownish-red bearded failure of forty, battling grimly to eminence against the hostility of the politicians. While high commissions were being recklessly given to civilians who knew nothing of arms or military discipline, the West Point graduate, the trained soldier of many campaigns, could not even win an audience to present his cause. * * Then overnight, almost, he became to the West 'Our General.' The President asked: 'Who is this man Grant, who fights battles and wins them?'"
But the best thing about Garland's trilogy is the picture he gives us of pioneering days in the North Middle West. His descriptions of the new, undeveloped country are poetic and true. His descriptions of the days of the two-wheeled ox-carts, crooked scythes, and high spinning wheels are classic. He has thoroughly appreciated the heroism of the pioneer. He has realized the beauty and the cruelty of the forests and prairies of the West. We get a fine picture of the drudgery, the dirt, the soul-grinding poverty of pioneer life. We realize, perhaps as never before, the physical energy required of the successful pioneer. "Up at break of day, eating their buckwheat cakes by candlelight, they were at work at dawn. A day's labor reached from dawn to dusk, and no man thought of shirking. What skill, what endurance, what courage the smallest of them displayed!"
The character of Hamlin Garland shines through his writings. We feel his sympathy, his honesty, his tolerance, his democracy. He, of all our writers, is most fitted to write the great American pioneer novel. His friendship for John Burroughs is a telling item in his life. When questioned as to his favorite poems he listed first Burrough's hopeful, tender poem "Waiting."
Serene I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, or sea; I rave no more 'gainst time or fate For, lo, my own shall come to me.
I stay my haste, I make delays, For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways, And what is mine shall know my face.
Asleep, awake, by night or day, The friends I seek are seeking me; No wind can drive my bark astray Nor change the tide of destiny.
The stars come nightly to the sky, The tidal wave comes to the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in March)
PRACTICAL RELIGION AND TESTIMONY
Honesty: Honesty is honor in action. Honesty is righteousness on the wing. It is applied conscience. When Cervantes said, "Honesty is the best policy" he meant, it pays to be honest.
First, with Ourselves: Honesty with one's self means being true to one's conscience; and the highest trueness to one's conscience is to keep it in the light of the best obtainable light. A thoughtful conscience means an elevated conscience. One of Dr. Maeser's favorite admonitions to his students was: "Be your self, your better self," meaning, be honest with your higher impulses, your loftier thoughts, your nobler ambitions. None but the depraved lack the desire to be honest; and as we are loath to believe in utter depravity, it is difficult for us to think of any one who has lost all desire to be honest. Honest desires are the pearls of great price; in the ethical world, they are insurance investments against moral bankruptcy. The desire for self-honesty is the "Thirst after righteousness" spoken of in the beatitudes, Matthew 5:6. Desires for self honesty, thoughts of self honesty, determinations of self-honesty, act and react on each other, giving to and getting from each other the power that makes for the happiness of being honest. The joy of inner honesty is close kin to the strength of inner cleanliness; they stand together, desiring only that which is lawful.
Have you felt that hunger for goodness, Craving the Millennium here? A yearning to be full of kindness, With never a hope nor a fear?
Have you burned with a thirst to be honest, Just for Honesty's sake? Have you longed for a thrill that is present When give is better than take?
If you have, there is started within you The kingdom for action to build, Where the hunger and thirst will continue And your soul be constantly thrilled.
Even thrilled with joy of desiring To do and be all that you should; Filled full of the high power of loving The being and doing of good.
Thus filled with a thrill, you're fulfilling The promise He made on the mount; Living the life most worth living And counting for most you can count.
If it pays to be happy, then inner honesty pays. "He who deceives others is a knave, but he who deceives himself is a fool." ?Maeser.
Honesty in the Outer World: Honesty in the outer world means honesty with others, sociological honesty. Honesty in communication creates lasting confidence, without which all productive and exchange industries would go to the wall. Crooked characters, like counterfeit coins, owe their existence to the honesty there is in society. It is the existence of the true that makes the false of even apparent value. "Truth crushed to earth will rise again; the eternal years of God are hers; while error, wounded, writhes in pain, and dies amid her worshipers." Honesty makes friends; fraud finds only fellow conspirators. Honesty creates wealth; fraud filches it. Honesty merits power; fraud usurps it. Honesty with others gives us lasting values of confidence, friendship, and reciprocal helpfulness. These create opportunities for the making of an honest living, in which no financial obligations are assumed without expectation of meeting them, no promises made without determination to keep them. It is no disgrace to accept aid in hours of need, but it is dishonest to borrow or run bills with no intention of keeping faith with those who trust us. The thought of "looking the whole world in the face" as Longfellow's Village Blacksmith did, is almost thrilling to one who senses the paying value of honesty with others. For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?Matt. 16:26. Dishonesty with others is social soul sickness; discovered, dishonesty is death to the social soul.
Honesty in the Upper World?Honest with the Lord?Theological Honesty: "The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is his delight"?Prov. 15:8. Who are upright? The honest?those who pray for the poor and pay their fast offerings; those who pray for the building up of Zion and pay their tithing; those who pray for the missionaries and contribute to their support; those who pray for forgiveness and forgive others; those who pray for health and keep the Word of Wisdom; those who pray for the divine support of leaders and stand for their counsel and advice. Honesty of desires, of belief, of works, has some compesation in the theological field; but the greater returns come from honesty of action. Absolute honesty is to be looked for in ideals, in angels, in deities; and the expectation of receiving rewards without merit in the upper world seems sufficiently inconsistent to check any insincere approach to the Lord; and we are led to the conclusion that ordinances without honesty avail nothing. Honesty in Spots: The conduct of individuals and groups points to a nearly universal spottedness of honesty. Many who are truthful in general are specifically untruthful in the matter of tax assessments. Persons who would be horrified at the thought of stealing, have a conscience that will permit them to fill the craws of their chickens from their neighbor's garden. And not infrequently there are people who "would not for the world"' directly rob their neighbors of sleep, but will keep a dog that makes the night uncomfortable to slumber seekers. That man was an exceptional one who, at the close of the harvest season, called a boy to him and said, "Jesse, you have more than earned your monthly wages, you have done a full man's work; I will pay you a man's wages." Grades of Honesty: There are three grades of honesty: First and highest, the free agency honesty. This grade comes from persons who need only the opportunity to be honest; they are the honest in heart. Second grade?the fear-prompted honesty. This grade comes from those who are honest in order to escape penalty; to them the evil is not in the dishonesty but in its being found out. Third grade?forced honesty. This grade comes from characters who are deprived of the opportunity of being other than honest. Only first grade honesty has in it the germ of honesty with self, Is honesty increasing? GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 45 On the whole, the world is becoming more honest, and better; like individuals, however, it is honest in spots. Education and experience have led to a higher appreciation of honesty as something that pays, in many ways?pays, in fact, in all of the long ways. In every line of life dishonesty is being viewed more and more as not only wrong but as sheer folly. Clearer and clearer it becomes that to be honest with the Lord is to be honest with one's fellow men; and to be honest with others is to be true to one's self?one's better self. Clearer and clearer in the handwriting of progress is seen the truth, It Pays to be Honest. Thirteen Things that make for improvement in honesty: 1. Submitting to honest self examination. 2. Cultivating desires for honesty. 3. Making honest confessions to self. 4. Entertaining thoughts of honesty. 5. Encouraging ambition to be honest. 6. Teaching honesty. 7. Acting honesty. 8. Fighting fraud (a) within (b) without. 9, Demanding reform (a) individual (b) group. 10. Trying to be what one would have the many become. 11. Insisting on respect for property rights in the, home. 12. Requiring children to give an account of things brought 13. Trying to find the owner of things found. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Wherein are secret prayer and self examination closely related? 2. What are the fruits of inner honesty? 3. When is one making an honest living? 4. Explain being "honest in spots." 5. Show that dishonest enterprises are dependent upon honesty. 6. Discuss: Honesty does not require that truth be told regardless of circumstances; nor that the whole truth be always told. 7. Why are April Fool untruths not dishonest? 8. Does honesty forbid a respectful reception of an unwelcome caller? Give reasons for answer. 9. Discuss: Discovered dishonesty is death to the "social soul." 10. Name some of the best fruits of (a) self honesty; (b) social honesty. 11. Quote the beatitude that promises pay for inner honesty. 12. Where must we look for absolute honesty?  13. Who are the members of our Church whose prayers are a "delight unto the Lord?" 14. Mention ten things that make for the increase of honesty. 15. Discuss the value of respecting property rights in the home; of the custom of requiring children to tell where they get things that they bring home; of insisting upon an effort to find the owner of "found things." 16. Discuss numbers eleven and twelve in this lesson as things that make for training in honesty. 17. Is honesty increasing? See Article "Why Education?' by President Frank S. Harris and N. I. Butt, Deseret News, Saturday, November 24, 1928. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in March) Teachers' Topic for March?Activities of the Relief Society. Why the Lessons in Practical Religion and Testimony I. To emphasize the importance of an every-day salvation as not only a preparation for, but as a part of, eternal life. II. To bring together material from the fields of revelation, human experience, and thought, for study and discussion. III. To indicate how ideas and inspiration may be made over into character through the formation of habits. IV. To stimulate interest in self-examination with a view toward self-improvement. V. To inspire a spirit of "weary not" in the work of lifting society to higher levels of life. VI. The lessons show the indispensability of, and point the way toward:; a. The conscientious life. B. The clean life. C. The honest life. D. The temperate life. E. The industrious life. F. The loyal life? as essential parts of the abundant spiritual life. VII. The plentitude of material in the lessons provides for study, sufficient to interest the most investigative students, and this plentitude suggests the propriety of being sufficiently selective in the presentation and discussion to guard -against trenching upon the time for testimonies. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 - LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) BIOGRAPHY JAMES MATTHEW BARRIE James Matthew Barrie, British novelist and dramatist, was born at Kirriemuir, a small village in Forfarshire, on the 9th day of May, 1860. He received his education in the Dumfries Academy and the Edinburgh University. From Mrs. Barrie's quasi-autobiography, Margaret. Ogilvy, we learn that before he went to school he wrote tales in the garret; and at Edinburgh he wrote the greater part of a three-volume novel. A publisher presumed this novel was the work of a clever lady and offered to publish it for one hundred pounds, but the offer was not accepted. Mr. Barrie found his way to literature through journalism. In February, 1883, he became leader-writer on the Nottingham Journal. He contributed a number of special articles and notes to this journal and thus obtained training and provided an opening for his personal talent. Soon after this he began submitting articles to London editors. In 1884 his article on "An Auld Licht Community" was printed in the St. James Gazette. More Auld Licht "Idylls" followed and in 1885 Mr. Barrie moved to London, where he continued to write for the St. James Gazette, The Home Clinic and the Edinburgh Evening Dispatch. His first book, Better Dead, was published in 1887 and was followed by Auld Licht Idylls in 1888, which was a collection of Scott's village sketches, portraying the life and humors. Of his native village. In 1889 A Window in Thurms was published, which, together with the Idylls, gave in full measure Mr. Barrie's gift of humanity, humor and pathos, with abundant evidence also of his original and vernacular style and the whimsical turn of his wit. In 1891 his first long novel, The Little Minister, appeared. In 1894 he published Margaret Ogilvy, which was based on the life of his mother and of his own relations with her, tenderly and beautifully written. Sentimental Tommy appeared the following year, and was completed by a sequel, Tommy and Grizel, published in 1900. In 1902 The Little White Bird was published. In this book he portrays his tenderness for child-life and gives full play to his whimsical invention. It contained the episode of Peter Pan, which suggested the play of that name. During this time Mr. Barrie had been developing his talent as a dramatist. In 1892 his play, Walker, London, appeared with much success. In 1893 he wrote, with Sir Conan Doyle, a play called Jane Annie. In this year he married Miss Ansell, who 48. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE had acted in Walker, London. He found much success in The Professor's Love Story in 1895; and in 1897 his dramatized version of The Little Minister probably confirmed his popularity as a dramatist. Mr. Barrie, who had been a struggling journalist of the early nineties, had by this time become one of the most prosperous literary men of the day. In 1903 three of his plays held the stage; and in 1904 Peter Pan, a poetical pantomime in which the author portrays some of his most characteristic and permanently delightful gifts, was produced. In 1905, Alice, Sit by the Fire, and in 1908, What Every Woman Knows, were added to his list. As a dramatist Mr. Barrie brought a method that was wholly unconventional and a sigularly fresh fancy, which contained also a shrewd touch of satirical humor. In literature with the simplest materials he achieved an almost unendurable pathos, never forced, but always salted with humor. Robert Louis Stevenson said of him, "there was genius in him, but there was a journalist on his elbow." What Every Woman Knows, By James Matthew Barrie In Barrie's play of four acts What Every Woman Knows, we are first introduced into the home of the Wylie family consisting of the father, two sons and a daughter. They are proprietors of the local granite quarry. This has not always been true, for Alick, the father, was throughout his working days a mason in this same quarry. It is the brother David who has raised them to this position. They have one sister, Maggie. Maggie admits that she is twenty-six years of age and is as yet unmarried. The play opens with her brothers David and James joking about marriage, for they are both bachelors. A note in the play says you do not know David and James until you know how they love their sister Maggie. They agree that she has set her heart on love, "not merely love," they say, "but one of those grand noble loves; for though Maggie is undersized she has a passion for romance." David addresses his father by asking, "did you tell her who got the minister of Galashiels?" Alick: "I had to tell her and then I bought her a sealskin muff and I just slipped it into her hands and came away." James says: "Of course, to be fair to the man, he never pretended he wanted her." Then David says: "None of them wants her. I was thinking, father, I would buy her that gold watch and chain in Snibby's window. She hankers after it." James, slapping his pocket: "You're too late, David. I've got them for her." GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49 Then David says: "It is ill done for the minister. Many a pound of steak has that man had in this house." The brothers have made up their minds not to retire at their usual hour, which is 10:00 p. M. They know that Maggie will be in presently to remind them that it is bed-time. They think it wise not to let her know why they are sitting up, but when she comes in they are not artful enough to keep the truth from her. They tell her they have been told by the police that a man has entered the window of the house several times and they fear that he is after their silver-plate. Under the circumstances Maggie refuses to go to bed. In a short time the intruder enters the rooms. He goes directly to the bookcase where there are some five hundred volumes, takes a book from the case saying it is just what he wants and begins to read. They recognize the man who came in through the window as John Shand, a young student who is trying very hard to make his way through the University of Edinburgh. The brothers conceive the idea of offering three hundred pounds if at the end of his college career he will consent to marry Maggie. They make it very clear to Shand that if Maggie should make up her mind to marry in the meantime that she is at perfect liberty to do so, but they insist on Shand standing by the contract. Maggie shows some embarrassment at this proposition and tells Shand in a half-hearted way that she hopes that he will not feel bound if he really cares for somebody else. In the course of their conversation it develops that John is twenty-one and Maggie's brothers say she is twenty-five. Pretending to a stricter honesty than that of her brothers she says she is twenty-six. Later, when John is gone, one of her brothers says he thought she was twenty-seven. In the beginning of the second act we find John waiting for the results of the election, for he is running for Parliament, a fact which indicates that he has finished his education. Maggie is all aflutter. Finally they have the election returns. John announces that he is elected by a majority of 244. "I'm John Shand, M. P." he exultantly exclaims. Maggie, weak in her limbs says: '"You're sure you're in, John?" John says: "Majority, 244. I've beaten the baronet. I've done it, Maggie, and not a soul to help me; I've done it alone." Alick asks: "What are you doing, Maggie?' She replies: "This is the House of Commons, and I'm John, catching the Speaker's eye for the first time. Do you see a queer little old wifie sitting up there in the Ladies' Gallery? That's me. Mr. Speaker, sir, I rise to make my historic maiden speech." Then a conversation ensues in which Maggie shows that she is very eager for the marriage to take place. She reminds John that she has waited a year longer than the contract called  for. She tells him she would like to release him from it but she has not the strength. However, she takes the contract and tears it in two, but John feels that he is morally obligated to marry her despite the fact that she insists that she has no charm and consequently does not hold it against him at all that he is reluctant. Finally she tells him that if he only had a sense of humor it might all be different. John says: "I cannot call to mind, Maggie, ever having laughed in my life." Maggie: 'You have no sense of humor." John: "Not a spark." Maggie: "I have sometimes thought if you had it might make you fonder of me. I think one needs a sense of humor to be fond of me." John does succeed in his public life. His addresses attract a good deal of attention. People say there is a unique quality about them and they actually coined a word which they called "Shandisms," to describe them. As he continues there are some of his acquaintances more analytical than others who suspect that John's work is not solely his. The bill to be introduced into Parliament relative to the rights of British women is being generally discussed by John's friends and acquaintances. Finally the Comtesse says to Maggie: "There is someone who helps out Mr. Shand." Maggie says: "There is not." Then, comes the reply, "It is a woman and it is you." Maggie says: "I help in the little things." Comtesse: "The little things! You are the pin he picked up and that is to make his fortune. And now, what I want to know is whether your John is aware that you help at all. John enters at that moment and provides the answer. He says: "Maggie! Comtesse! I've done it again." The Comtesse appreciates the fact that Maggie does much of the work and addresses her saying: "You divine little wife. He cannot be worthy of it. No-man could be worthy of it. Why do you do it?" Maggie shivers a little and replies: "He loves to think he does it all himself. That is the way of men. I am six years older than he is. I am plain and I have no charm. I should not have let him marry me. I am trying to make up for it." As John matures we are told that much has come to him that we had almost despaired of his acquiring, including nearly all the divine attributes except the sense of humor. ? Now there develops a love affair between Sybil and John. Sybil has charm but she lacks the sense of humor. Maggie is conscious of the situation and offers to release her husband. Maggie's brother David says to John: ?How long has this GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH been going on?" referring to the flirtation between Sybil and John. John: "If you mean how long has that lady been the apple of my eye, I am not sure, but I never told her of it until today." Maggie, who is knitting, looks thoughtful. She says: "I think it was not until about six months ago, John, that she began to be very dear to you. At first you liked to bring in her name when talking to me, so that I could tell you of any little things I might have heard she was doing; but afterward, as she became more and more to you, you avoided mentioning her name." David finally says: "Well, we won't go into the matter. The thing to be thankful for is that it is ended." Alick, the father, who is looking very old, replies: "Yes, yes, that is the great thing." But John says: "All useless, sir. It is not ended. It is to go on." James, the brother, says: ?Man, I could knock you down." Maggie: "There is not one of you could knock John down." David exasperated says: "Quiet, Maggie. One would think you were taking his part." Maggie replies: 'Do you expect me to desert him at the very moment he needs me most?" David: "I suppose you understand you will have to resign your seat?" (Having reference of course to the seat in Parliament.) John: "I am mortal sorry, Maggie." Sybil: "And J also." Maggie soothingly: "I am sure you are, but as it cannot be helped I see no reason why we three should not talk the matter over in a practical way." John: "If you can understand, Maggie, what an inspiration she is to me in my work." Sybil: "Mrs. Shand, I think of nothing else." Maggie: "That is fine. That is as it should be." Then they begin to plan about when Maggie should leave them, and she says it could not well be before Wednesday as that is the day the laundry comes home. And John says: "It is the day the House rises. It may be my last appearance in the House." Maggie, sympathetically: "You love the House, don't you, John, next to her. It is a pity you cannot wait until after your speech at Leeds. Mr. Venables won't let you speak at Leeds, I fear, if you leave me." John: "What a chance it would have been, but let it go."  Then they agree that the separation shall not occur for a month, and Maggie arranges that John shall go to the cottage of the Comtesse where he can be alone and work on his Leeds address. John accuses her of doing this to separate them. He says it is just a wife's trick. Then she takes up the telephone and asks the Comtesse to arrange for Sybil to be there also. John and Sybil are not present when she does the latter thing, so she tells John that the Comtesse wants Sybil to be there. Later Maggie pays a visit to the Comtesse. As soon as she arrives she hears that there is something wrong about the speech. She finds John depressed. John had left an outline of his speech and Maggie has fixed it up and now hands it to Venables whose business seems to pass on this particular speech. When Maggie comes into contact with John and Sybil she explains that she is ready to leave with her brothers. She says: "You see my brothers feel they cannot be away from their business any longer and so if it would be convenient to you, John, I could travel with them by the night train on Wednesday." John: 'This is just the 21st." Maggie: My things are all packed. I think you will find the house in good order, Lady Sybil. I have had the vacuum cleaners in. I will give you the keys to the linen and the silver-plate. I have them in that bag. John: ?Why should you be so ready to go?" Maggie: "I promised not to stand in your way." John hesitates and Maggie says: "Don't you love her any more, John? Be practical." Sybil: "At any rate I have tired of him. Oh, best to tell the horrid truth. I am ashamed of myself. I have been crying my eyes out over it. I thought I was such a different kind of woman, but I am weary of him. I think him?oh, so dull." John: "Are you sure that is how you have come to think of me?" Sybil: "I am sorry, but, yes, yes, yes." John says: "My God, it's more than I deserve." Then a discussion ensues as to whether anybody has ever helped John. He says: "Nobody has ever helped him." Maggie says: "Not even Lady Sybil?" John: "I am beginning to doubt it. It's very curious, though, Maggie, that this speech should be disappointing." Maggie: "It is just that Mr. Venables has not the brains to see how good it is." John: "That must be it. No, Maggie, it is not. Somehow I seem to have lost my neat way of saying things." Maggie, almost cooing: "It will come back to you." GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 53 John, forlorn: "If you knew how I've tried." Maggie: "Maybe if you were to try again and I will just come and sit beside you and knit. I think the click of the needles sometimes put you in the mood." John: "Hardly that; and yet many a Shandism I knocked off while you were sitting beside me knitting. I suppose it was the quietness." John: "Maggie!" Maggie: "What is it, John?" John: "What if it was you that put those queer ideas into my head." Maggie: "Me?" John: 'Without your knowing it, I mean." Maggie: "John, could it be this, that I sometimes had the idea in a rough womanish sort of way and then you polished it up till it came out a Shandism?" John: "I believe you have hit it, Maggie: to think that you may have been helping me all the time and neither of us knew it." Mr. Venables enters and the Comtesse says: "He wishes to see you, Mr. Shand." And she adds: "About your speech." John says he has heard enough about that. The Comtesse adds: "I think it is about the second speech." And John in astonishment adds: 'What second speech?" Maggie says: "You had left the first draft of your speech at home, John, and I brought it here with a few little things I have added myself, just trifles. Things I used to suggest to you while I was knitting; and then, if you liked any of them, you could have polished them and turned them into something good. And now she (meaning the Comtesse) has shown it to Mr. Venables." John: "As my work, Comtesse?" Maggie says: "It is your work?nine-tenths of it." John: "You presumed, Maggie Shand! Very well, then. Here he comes, and now we'll see to what extent you've helped me." Venables: "My dear fellow. My dear Shand, I congratulate you. Give me your hand." John: "The speech?" Venables: "You have improved it out of knowledge. It is the same speech but those new touches make all the difference." They talk the matter over and agree that John's success is due to a combination of work. John shivers and Maggie asks: "Why did you shiver, John?" John: "It was at myself for saying that I could not live  with you again, and I should have been wondering how for so long you have lived with me. And I suppose you have forgiven me all the time and forgive me still." Then Maggie says: "John, am I to go or are you to keep me on? I am willing to stay because I am useful to you, if it cannot be for a better reason." His hand feels for her and she draws near to him. Maggie: "It is nothing unusual I have done, John. Every man who is high up loves to think that he has done it all himself, and the wife smiles and lets it go at that. It is our only joke. Every woman knows that." Problem of the Play The problem presented in this play is that of the assistance the wife gives the husband in his work. Her part is usually done quietly without ostentation. There are women everywhere in the world, companions o fmen who have achieved success, who know with Maggie that they have been an important part of that success, whether their husbands acknowledge it or not, and who say with Maggie, it is our only joke. It is what every woman knows. Questions 1. Mention some woman or women in history who are given credit for helping their husbands in their careers. 2. Tell the story of some woman you know personally who has assisted her husband in his career. 3. Do you think there are still men who expect a great deal of help from women without giving them any credit? 4. Relate the story of some man, either mentioning his name or not as you think best, who acknowledges that his wife has assisted or is assisting him in his life's work? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson 12. Care of Intellectually Inferior Children. (Based on Chapter XIII, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) In the last lesson we considered the causes of juvenile delinquency. We noted there the general importance of mental factors, especially mental deficiencies, in the causation of juvenile delinquency. In the present lesson we are going to look more specifically at the causes and treatment of feeblemindedness. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 55 The author of this chapter, Dr. Arnold Gessell, is both a physician and a psychologist. He is a very competent authority in this field?director of the psycho-clinic for children at Yale University. A. The Causes of Feeblemindedness: When they learn for the first time that defective heredity is not the only cause of feeblemindedness, many parents are genuinely surprised. While it is true that most cases of mental deficiency are traced to an inherited defect in the family stock, it is also true according to the best authorities, that from ten to fifteen per cent of all feeblemindedness is the result of disease, injury, or some other malevolent factor operating directly upon the fetus or the young infant. It is notorious that such things as (a) alcoholism of the parents at the time of conception, or of the mother during pregnancy, (b) head injuries, (c) defects of nutrition, (d) whooping cough and (e) other children's diseases, seriously interfere with the normal development of the cerebral cortex?that outer layer of the brain which has most to do with the behavior function called intelligence. This being the case, it follows then that in our attempt 'to control feeblemindedness we must be just as much concerned (a) adequately to care for the child during pregnancy, (b) to prevent injury at birth, and (c) to avoid accident or disease during early childhood, as we are that mentally defective adults shall be sterilized or denied the privilege of marriage.
B. The Measurement of Intelligence: When the term "measurement" is used in connection with intelligence a wrong impression is likely to be created. Unlike the measurement of weight, or distance, for example, the measurement of intelligence is by no means accurate. While the intelligence test is a vast improvement over all other known methods of appraising intelligence, it is, nevertheless, an imperfect device and one that calls for skill in its use and interpretation. For instance. The I. Q. (i. e., the test-score) assumes that the child is at his best physically and mentally when he takes the test. In the second place it assumes that the child fully understands what is required of him by the test. Thirdly, it assumes that he co-operates willingly and eagerly in the test. Finally it assumes that the only factor operating to raise or lower his performance, and therefore his score, is his intelligence. It will readily be seen that these assumptions may or may not be true in actual practice. The best method of testing intelligence now employed by institutions caring for feebleminded children, is to supplement the results of intelligence tests by physical examination and a life-history. This life-history includes the child's developmental record of disease, his reactions to other children, his interests, habits, and, where school adjustment is attempted, his success or failure in educational work.
C. The Treatment of the Feebleminded: Medical and physical treatment of feeblemindedness, as the author points out, is a negligible factor in the control of mental deficiency. The real treatment is largely educational, psychological, and social. The elements of any state program for the care of mentally defectives should include the following:
1. Identification.
2. Registration.
3. Special education in the public schools followed by community supervision, for the high grade defective.
4. Segregation in a separate state school, for the low grade defective.
5. Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
In view of the fact that the 1929 legislature is now considering the establishment of a state training school for mental defectives, such a program is of vital importance to the people of Utah at this time. Utah has the unenviable distinction of being one of only three or four states in the Union without such facilities. Feebleminded children in Utah must either be sent to Idaho, Colorado, Oklahoma or some other nearby state school, or else remain at home. The injustice is great in either case. If these children remain at home, they become a burden to their parents; they are the object of ridicule and jest in the neighborhood, and are virtually denied their right to some kind of education. If they are committed to an out-of-state institution, the cost of care is exorbitant, for they are charged the special rates of the non-resident. Furthermore, parents are unable to visit them oftener than once or twice a year because the cost of travel is prohibitive.
QUESTIONS
1. What other factors than heredity can cause feeblemindedness?
2. What is the correct definition of an "idiot," an "imbecile," a "moron?"
3. What are the dangers of an uncritical use of mental tests?
4. Why is it necessary early to detect and train feebleminded children?
5. What should a school curriculum for feebleminded children include? What should be its key-note?
6. Why is Utah so backward in establishing adequate facilities for its mentally handicapped children?
7. What facilities exist in your local schools for the special treatment of dull and backward children?
Karl G. Maeser A Biography by His Son
From affluence and social standing in aristocratic circles of Germany to humble stations in Utah, from wealth and comfort to poverty and actual want, from an aristocrat to a man of the common people, from a military disciplinarian to a kind and helpful father of thousands in the world of education, and, above all, from a skeptic and scoffer to a devout and resolute believer in, and defender of, the principles of the doctrine of Jesus Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints, this, in brief, is the remarkable series of disclosures concerning a great but humble life briefly set forth in the first book published by the Brigham Young University?Karl G. Maeser.
The book is written by his son Reinhard Maeser, now also deceased, long a teacher in the institution founded and brought into greatness by the faith and works of his illustrious father. The first chapters might well be termed "The Martyrdom of a Devoted Hero." Most of the early incidents are tragic. The trials and disappointments of a mind cultured and comprehensive and of a soul sensitive and conscientious; a battle fierce and long-drawn out against unaccustomed environments; adverse conditions of a new and extraordinary sort, exactly calculated to sting to the quick the proud and sensitive soul of the German scholar called to teach a district school in pioneer educational days in Utah,?these are the pictures shown in the neat text of the little volume about a big man.
The record of his missionary labors in Germany, of the offers of his friends and family to induce him to give up the Latter-day Saints, and come back to be one of the ornaments of German society again?these topics form another interesting and characteristic period of the life of Karl G. Maeser; and upon them many a missionary will delight to dwell.
The period of the infancy and development of the Brigham Young Academy will be of intensive interest alike to the present students of the Brigham Young University and to those of far earlier years, who enjoyed the unique privilege of coming under the instruction of this magnetic character builder and inspirer of youth.
The final honors, which a grateful community at last showered upon him, form a record that is full of fascination even to strangers. To those who were associated with the events recorded, the narrative tingles with a beauty and glory that is not strictly personal to the life of Dr. Maeser, but carries one into the sacred realms of a truly intellectual and religious atmosphere.
The book is likely to excite the dismay of the mere man of the world, who will exclaim, "Is heaven so unkind as this to its choicest children?" But it will act as a challenge and stimulus to the mind more heroic, which will get from these narratives the inspiration to aspire and the fortitude to suffer, in order to live the higher life, with "those immortal souls who live again in lives made better by their presence."
If I Could Only Live By Alfred Osmond
If I could only live to see unkindness An exile, banished from my mortal ken, I would not fear to face the final blindness That comes at last to all the sons of men.
If I could only live to see devotion Exalted on the throne of righteousness, I would not fear to face the final motion That seals the fate of human happiness.
If I could only live to see my Nation Become a Christian land in very deed, I would not fear to face the separation That proves the folly of a faithless creed.
If I could only live to see the day When all the drums of war would cease to beat, I would be happy and would gladly say That life is beautiful and death is sweet.
"I advise young men and women to save the most precious years of their lives by securing a business education, that they may go forth fully equipped early in life."?Andrew Carnegie.
?the practical courses in this school prepare you for rapid advancement.
L. D. S. Business College
Write today for full particulars.
ENTER ANY MONDAY
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids?
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
GLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine