GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. FARNSWORTH LUND
Julia A. Farnsworth Lund GENERAL SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY By May Booth Talmage
The advantage of receiving as a goodly heritage the finest characteristics of a long line of worthy ancestors is clearly emphasized in Julia A. Farnsworth Lund. One may say that in the truest sense she was well-born?through the lineage of the Farnsworths and the Murdocks. In addition to the advantages of these splendid qualities received through inheritance, she has had superior home environment and exceptional educational opportunities, thus combining the three fundamentals that mean so much in the development of outstanding men and women. A daughter
of Philo T. And Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth, Julia was born in Beaver City, Utah, on December 2, 1874. Gifted and beautiful from childhood, she exhibited traits of leadership which have increased with the opportunities she so eagerly seized, and the responsibilities she so willingly assumed. In watching Julia one is constantly reminded of her no. Less gifted mother, who served with marked efficiency on the Relief Society General Board for several years, and whose attractive and well ordered home radiated a spirit of true hospitality and excellent management. Mrs. Lund's scholastic training was obtained from the elementary schools, the Beaver Stake Academy for one year, the Brigham Young Academy for three years, and the University of Utah, from which last-named institution she received the degree of Bachelor of Arts. When but nineteen years of age she attended the World's Congress of Women, held in Chicago in the spring of 1893; and as a representative of the young women of Utah she delivered an address at that notable gathering. In 1896 she served as Secretary of the Republican Central Committee, and, during subsequent years, has taken an active interest in political affairs. In club work also Mrs. Lund has been given honor and responsibility. When the General Federation of Women's Clubs met in Denver, in the spring of 1898, she was. Made State Chairman of Correspondence for Utah. In 1899 she went to Philadelphia as a representative of the Utah State Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, of which great organization she is a charter member. The active loyalty of Mrs. Lund toward her Alma Mater is  shown in her willing and efficient service as Vice President 01 the Alumni Association of the University of Utah in 1921-2, and also as a member of the Union Building Committee at the present time. As an instructor in Theology and English at the Latter-day Saints College, her ability combined with her pleasing' personality became a subject of favorable comment, and was demonstrated by the over-crowded classes of students who elected to take instruction from her. In 1921, Julia A. Farnsworth Lund was appointed a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, and she served in that capacity during the administration of Sister Clarissa S. Williams. The wisdom of this choice has been clearly demonstrated by the efficient service rendered by Sister Lund in the varied responsibilities of her calling. In the spring of 1925 she was appointed a member of the Salt Lake County Red Cross Board?a position she still holds. When Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde accepted the position of a U. S. Customs officer in Honolulu, the president of the local Civic Center Board asked for a member of the General Board of the Relief Society to take Mrs. Hyde's place on the Civic Center Board. Mrs. Lund was appointed to fill that vacancy in May 1925. The important position of Educational Director of the Civic Center was accepted by Mrs. Lund and was retained by her until she was called to her present office as General Secretary of the Relief Society. Primarily to gain greater efficiency for her work at the Civic Center, Julia took a course at the University of California for special training in Adult Education. This college work and the experience gained at the Civic Center will doubtless prove an invaluable asset for the new position now occupied by Mrs. Lund. Thus far we have written chiefly of the public activities of our new Secretary, but many and varied as these are, one who has been in a position to know Mrs. Lund in her home-life somewhat better than has the writer gives interesting side-lights that indicate even greater attributes than are shown by this brilliant public record. When, on September 20th, 1900, Julia Farnsworth was married for time and eternity to Henry C. Lund, she builded better than she knew. To her own splendid heritage she added the inestimable worth of another quite as strong, as all who knew President Anthon H. Lund, of the First Presidency of the Church, and President Canute Petersen of the Sanpete Stake, can testify. Seven children were born to Brother and Sister Henry C. Lund, and six of these are living. We quote a few of the well-deserved tributes paid by the informant before mentioned: "Julia is a mother to her children in the truest sense. She JULIA A. F, LUND a not only cares for their physical welfare by providing them with a well-balanced diet, making their clothing attractive by the work of her own hands, and carefully guarding their health, but she promotes a beautiful home-spirit and is commendably ambitious for their educational and spiritual well-being. With all her public duties she manages never to neglect her children. She seems to understand every need and be equal to every demand. She has instilled in the hearts of her children a very high regard and perfect respect for their father. She had very close and pleasant relationships with her husband's family, and was looked upon more as a daughter in fact than as one who had married into the family. To her sisters also she is a source of inspiration, and they often seek her for counsel or advice. In fact," the speaker concluded, "I can think of nothing that a mother should be that Julia is not; and my years of association with her have filled me with appreciation and admiration of her splendid life." When her husband died, on September 5, 1925, an added responsibility came into the life of Sister Lund; but she met her sorrow bravely and today faces life's problems with heroic courage. She feels that her children and her Church now claim her whole interest, and that home-making is the greatest profession for a woman on earth. In conning over and summing up the numerous and varied honors and responsibilities that have been crowded into the years of Sister Lund's earthly existence, one feels great assurance as to her sympathetic understanding of the problems that now confront her; and we are comforted in the thought that in her new and important position we shall find her an efficient and worthy successor to the honored and illustrious Secretaries who have preceded her. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF ' JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL Board LOUISE YATES President S. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS JULIA Alleman Child- Second Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND - - -: General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds es Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor. -: - -. ? Alice Louise Reynolds Gen Manager: - - - - -: - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - a - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, signed Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, "Salt Lake City, Utah Vor, XVI | JANUARY, 1929 No.