A Song for New Year's By Shirley Rei Gudmundsen
'Tis Old Year's Night. The room is dim. The faint moving shadow on the little table Of polished walnut Far from the sharp white flames That dance over red embers in the fireplace.
These, and the lighted globe on the fir tree In the corner, Cast a soft glow, that catches All the sparkle of the tinsel, All the glitter of the little tin track On which the toy train Has circled noisily, dutifully, for a week.
Against a chair leg The round-eyed doll reclines As though in musing, sweetly.
And the air is filled With filmy haze of incense, Sandalwood, From the Joss on the mantel. His sleepy face is wreathed in smoke As though it might be a token Of the peace, with all existing things That wrap about his soul.
'Tis New Year's Morn. A little space of minutes makes it so. And now The room is filled with light, efficiently, And all its corners are illuminated.
The table and the tree have lost their quiet magic Of half darkness, And the hearth is but a fireplace For warming.
The door is opened; On the frost night is borne Medleys of the noise That seek to make a mark on fleeting time.
The cold air rushes in, Dispels the smoke of incense, Makes as though to bring New roses to the doll's cheeks, New thoughts for those round eyes to startle at.
My Neighbor Alice M. Walker Poem awarded first prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
Life was so full of petty care I had no time to really live, No happiness had I to share, No song to sing, no joy to give.
Each day passed by on weary wings, Each night brought only brief surcease, I could not sense the greater things, Could only work, and wait?for peace.
And then you came, and lo, it seemed That through your eyes I learned to see Life, beauty, faith, of which I'd dreamed But never hoped could come to me.
I learned the joy of daily tasks, And found the calm of cloudy days, I came to know that Duty masks The entrance to Life's sweetest ways.
You went away, but still I hold The power you gave, to smile and sing, To tinge the darkest clouds with gold, And see God's hand in everything.
Etched Josephine Spencer Poem awarded second prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
The horizon a hazy line; Foreground, a patch of crusted brine; Buff beach, brown shore, a waveless sea? With noon sun burning all the three.
South edge of serrate, Vandyke peaks; Pale island headlands laid in streaks Against the west; a northern shore Set dark against the lake's blue floor.
Dun prairies laid along the east With dingy clumps of sage-brush creased; And still, white ponds of alkali; A splash of green, a cool stream rolled Through wheatfields beaded thick with gold;? And then a city, lifting high, Thin, pointed spires against the sky.
The Miracle By Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine A Play In One Act, Two Scenes
Cast of Characters: Mrs. Driggs, a widow old enough to have a son returning from a mission. Her Children: Nancy, seventeen years old, sweet and dependable. Ruth, fifteen years old, high spirited but not impertinent. Allen, nine years old; Bobby, six years old?just boys.
SCENE I.
Scene: (A poorly furnished room. Mrs. Driggs is discovered sewing on a bright colored house dress. Patterns and material and a sewing machine show that making housedresses is her business. Allen and Bobby are playing on the floor. Ruth appears in the doorway of the kitchen adjoining, with a potato in one hand and a vegetable brush in the other. There is a pause after the curtain rises, long enough for the audience to get the atmosphere of the scene.)
Ruth: (speaking gently) Allen, run out and get me some wood for the fire. (Exeunt boys.)
Mrs. Driggs: Be sure to wash the potatoes clean, Ruthie.
Ruth: (Calling from the kitchen where she can be seen at work) Oh, sugar! Mother, consider the poor dumb animals, how they starve. I'd feel like a thief if I met a pig.
Mrs. Driggs: There's real food value in the peelings. Don't you remember, dear, when the doctor had me drink soup made from them?
Ruth: (Entering) Now mother, I know exactly what you are going to say; a French family could live out of an American family's garbage can. But now, I'm asking you confidentially, who wants to live out of a garbage can?
Mrs. Driggs: It's only said to illustrate their economy, dear.
Ruth: Mother, you say that poverty is a blessing in disguise. It may be, but I don't like the disguise. You bet when Ned comes home, we'll have something to eat besides skim milk and potatoes.
Mrs. Driggs: Returned missionaries sometimes have a hard time getting work. Ned hasn't even a trade.
Ruth: Yes, that's the worst of it, and no money to put him through college as father had intended. Poor Neddy, it'll be pretty hard for him to come home and find father gone?and us in this way?(with an expressive gesture around the scantily furnished room).
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, dear, but he is brave, and he will do all he can to take father's place. (She struggles to control her emotions.) What is troubling me lately is that the mortgage on the home is so long past due?I haven't been able to pay even the interest for a long time; and Mr. Gray tells me that he has a customer for the place who wants to take possession immediately. That means we may have to move out before Neddy comes home. The house where he was born! (wiping her eyes. Then with an effort to regain her cheerfulness.) If we can just hold out a little longer, I know things will be all right.
Ruth: Mother, you darling. All your clouds are lined with gold and precious stones. The trouble is, they are such heavenly things we can't sell them for roast beef and ice cream.
Mrs. Driggs: There are many things worse than poverty, dearie.
Ruth: Well, there may be, but I haven't happened to meet them yet.
Mrs. Driggs: Why, living as we have, we have been able to keep Ned on his mission, even after father died. It's been worth it, hasn't it?
Ruth: Oh sure! But life's awfully unfair. Some people have everything.
Mrs. Driggs: Indeed, who for instance?
Ruth: Oh, everybody! I have less than any girl I know?except Nancy. Millie Barnes has everything.
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, I've heard you say she even has a bad temper.