Ruth: I'll say she has!
Mrs. Driggs: Would you like to change places with her?
Ruth: Sugar! I should say not.
Mrs. Driggs: Why do you say "sugar" all the time Ruthie?
Ruth: Well, you won't let me say "heck" or "gee" or "darn," and I have to say something, so I chose a nice, sweet, word.
Mrs. Driggs: How would you like to be Alice Randall? She has plenty of money, and is very sweet, too.
Ruth: I don't want to be motherless Alice Randall, nor hateful Millie Barnes. I don't want to be anyone but me, I, and myself, only I've got an over-developed wishbone. Mother, I wish so hard sometimes that I almost make things come true.
Mrs. Driggs: Of course, dear, if we have faith enough, all things are possible. But we must be sure that our wishes are righteous and progressive,?in harmony with the upward trend of perfect life. (Nancy enters. She takes off her hat and lays it on the table. She seems listless and depressed.)
Ruth: Well, what's the glad news, Nance. You look about as cheerful as a spell of conference weather.
Nancy: (She begins bravely but is weeping before she finishes speaking.) Mother, Mrs. Gray didn't pay me for the dresses. She says you are charging too much for them. She said she'd keep these because she had promised to; but she can get better ones at Denby's for less money, and she said she couldn't pay me today but that she'd send the money over in a few days.
Ruth: Why didn't you tell her to go to?SUGAR!
Nancy: I'm afraid I made a ninny of myself. I burst out crying right before her. Oh, I'm sorry, mother, but I couldn't help it. I was so tired and disappointed, and I knew we didn't have a thing in the house for supper, and no money. (She sits down by her mother and lays her head in Mrs. Driggs' lap. Mrs. Driggs pets her fondly.)
Ruth: That shows what kind of an animal she is! You bet the next time I see her I'll say "Scat!"
Mrs. Driggs: (Reprovingly) Ruth, dear.
Ruth: I wish she'd be hungry for awhile for the sake of keeping that great, fat son of hers on a mission. Now, mother, that's a good wish, a righteous and progressive wish, and I am going to keep on wishing it hard enough for it to come true.
Mrs. Driggs: Darlings, we mustn't be hard and bitter, that only reacts on ourselves. You know the only reason that people are wicked or unkind is because they don't understand. If we are more intelligent or generous than some people we should be very thankful and not be cross with them about it. Ruth, dear, call the boys. (Exit Ruth).
Nancy: Mother, Mrs. Gray was disagreeable. She said if people who borrowed money from them would only pay it back it would be better for everybody. It was mean of her when she knows that we put the mortgage on the home when father died to pay all those heavy expenses and to keep Ned on his mission; and she knows that we haven't had a thing to live on except what we have made by sewing.
Mrs. Driggs: Now, dearie, you mustn't be unjust. Men seldom tell their wives about those things, and Mr. Gray has been very lenient. It isn't his fault that we have been unfortunate.
Nancy: I can't understand it. You'd think that we deserve blessings. When you think that father died just three months after Ned had left for his mission and we had all that sorrow and expense and not a soul to help us?. Well, not many people would have done what we have done.
Mrs. Driggs: Oh yes, anyone would who loved the gospel as we do, and we've lived through it.
Nancy: (She takes her hat into an adjoining room, returning in a few moments, speaking before she enters the room.) Mother, have you sold your Cameo?
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, dear.
Nancy: (Entering, speaks sorrowfully) Oh, mother that's the last thing we had of grandma's and we all loved it so.
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, I know, dear, and it was to have been yours; but there's no help for it. Mrs. Anderson bought it, and she was very generous. The money she gave me for it will keep us until Ned comes home.
Nancy: (With a significant gesture around the room) I don't think there is another thing in the whole house that we could sell. Mother, we've literally fulfilled the command of the Savior to the young man to sell all he had and follow him, haven't we?
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, dear, and our reward is that our boy has been able to fill a good mission, and we all have good health and each other. And now, he is going to be released and will soon be home. (Ruth and the boys are heard in the kitchen putting wood in a box. As they enter the boys are quarreling.)
Bobby: (Crying) You give me back my top.
Allen: I haven't got your old top, cry baby.
Bobby: You have too, I saw you take it. (He strikes at Allen and catches hold of him. They struggle together.)
Ruth: (Taking hold of one boy with each hand, she gives them a little shake.) Hi, there, you little hyenas! Get on your own side of the cage!
Mrs. Driggs: (Speaking gently. The boys obey her instantly.) Bobby, hand mother the Bible. Allen you may select the hymn, and repeat our watchword for the day.
Allen: (Kissing his mother.) I'm sorry, Mother. I forgot. (Then he stands by her side and repeats) "Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect."
Altogether: (In concert) "Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." (Allen goes to a side table or shelf and gets a church song book, which he opens and looks for a hymn.)
Mrs. Driggs: Now, Ruthie, please tell us what your reaction was on the thing that has tried you most today.
Ruth: (Crossing her fingers in view of the audience, but so that her mother can't see them.) I wish Mrs. Gray a long life of health, wealth and happiness. I'd willingly share my last potato peeling with her.
Mrs. Driggs: (Shakes her head at Ruth reprovingly) Have you found a hymn, Allen? (Allen has selected a hymn that they can all sing well together. When they finish singing, Mrs. Driggs opens the Bible and hands it to Nancy, who reads from the fourteenth chapter of St. John.)
Nancy: (Reading) "Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works' sake. Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do, shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my father; And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son, If ye ask anything in my name, I will do it. If ye love me keep my commandments.?" (While Nancy is reading these last words a sharp knock is heard on the door. Ruth answers the door and signs for a letter, which Allen snatches from her hands to his mother).
Nancy: (Laying down the Bible looks anxiously at the letter as her mother opens it.) A special delivery airmail letter! It isn't Ned's handwriting, I wonder what it can be? (They all crowd around their mother as she opens the letter with trembling fingers.)
Mrs. Driggs: (Reading aloud) "My dear Sister Driggs: It is with deepest sorrow that I am compelled to inform you that your son Edwin was seized with acute appendicitis this morning. We rushed him to the hospital?" (She grows faint and Nancy takes the letter from her.)
Nancy: (Continuing the reading) "We rushed him to the hospital. We were fortunate in being able to secure the services of the noted surgeon, Dr. Humbolt. They wouldn't let me stay in the operating room with Ned, so I called the Saints and missionaries together, and we've had a most wonderful prayer meeting for him. The doctors give us no hope whatever. But we all feel that he will recover! We are praying, with all our hearts, and are going to fast until he is better. We don't intend to give up. If, however, in the wisdom of God, your son is taken you can always be happy in the knowledge that he died as he lived, full of faith and courage, and that he has been called to a greater work. He is a very noble young man, and a son to be proud of. He is dearly beloved by all who know him. I am writing this letter thinking that it will be less of a shock to you than a cablegram. I shall return immediately to the hospital, and will keep you constantly informed. May God bless and comfort you, dear sister. Your friend and brother, Albert Brown, President.................. Mission." (During the reading Nancy's voice falters. She reads with great effort.) Mrs. Driggs sits motionless, her eyes slightly raised as if in prayer. The children are sobbing and trying to comfort their mother.)
Mrs. Driggs: (Her lips move several times before she can force them to utter the words) "Whatsoever ye ask in my name will I do; if ye ask anything in my name, I will do it." (During the last words of this speech the curtain slowly falls).
SCENE II
(Scene same as before, a month later. Nancy and Ruth are discovered sewing on house dresses. An air of cheerfulness pervades the place. A vase or two of flowers or blooming plants make the room look as if it had been dressed up for a festive occasion).
Ruth: (Excitedly) "Oh gee! I mean Sugar! I don't believe six o'clock will ever come. I simply can't wait, that's all."
Nancy: (Who feels deeply, but is more calm) Well, what are you going to do about it?
Ruth: I'm afraid I'll go up in smoke. Poof! Just like that! (with an expressive gesture) I was never so excited in my life. I don't see how mother has stood it this last month.
Nancy: (Tenderly) Oh, mother! She's equal to anything. But wasn't it wonderful the way the tide turned, and the good news came pouring in? A cable from Brother Brown telling of the miracle of Ned's being healed almost before we had finished reading his first letter. And all the letters that have come since. I like the dear old doctor's letter best of all.
Ruth: My, wasn't it just like a fairy tale, written in his quaint English? I certainly would have loved to be there, and have seen all those great surgeons stare when Ned told them he was well, and they didn't need to operate. Can't you feature their eyes popping right out of their heads?
Nancy: Yes, and they realized it was a miracle, too. Dr. Humbolt said Ned's face was transfigured, and shone like an angel's. And then, his taking Ned to his own home to watch him, fearing that it might be a peculiar case of hysteria.
Ruth: Yes, and then learning to love Neddy so much that he wants to adopt him.
Nancy: No, not adopt him, make him his heir.
Ruth: Well, anyhow, as the Greeks say, I bet it jarred them loose from a lot of their old prejudices.
Nancy: It proves what mother says is true, that Ned couldn't have been instantly healed without faith, and that with faith, if we have enough of it, the things we now call miracles would be everyday occurrences. She says the only surprising thing is that in our Church we use the gift so little.
Ruth: Well, it's been a lesson to me. Hereafter I shall move all the mountains out of my pathway.
Nancy: You mustn't joke about it, Ruth.
Ruth: I'm not joking. I was never more serious in my life. If I'd felt like this a month ago I might have told Mrs. Gray to move to yonder place, or, like the sycamore, be cast into the sea; but since her change of heart, I love her half to death. (Glancing out of the window.) Oh there she comes now, bringing mother home in their new Cad sedan, mother looking like the queen and lady that she is. (Both girls go to the window and look out, then run to the door. They wave and call greetings to Mrs. Gray. Mrs. Driggs enters with two large packages which Nancy takes from her and puts on the table, beginning to untie the string. Ruth seats her mother in a rocking chair and removes her hat and wrap which she tosses up and catches as a juggler would. Nancy opens bundles. Displaying a large cake and a pan of fried chicken. They all exclaim over the things).
Mrs. Driggs: Mrs. Gray was on her way here with the chicken for our dinner when I met her and she took me to do a few errands. As we were coming home we met Mattie McDonald coming over with the cake. They both said they thought we would be too excited to do much cooking today. I went into Risers to order some ice cream, and Henry insisted on sending a gallon as his treat. He says Ned can tuck away more ice cream than anyone he has ever seen.
Ruth: Ain't people grand! I've decided to be an optimist.
Mrs. Driggs: It would be hard for us to be anything else with all the lovely things everybody is doing for us.
Ruth: Oh, mother, I'm so excited I'm nigh to busting! I just have to stand on my head or dance a jig or something.
Mrs. Driggs: Let it be a jig then by all means, dear. (Ruth dances a few steps). You haven't noticed my pin yet, girls. (Both girls exclaim with surprise at the cameo Mrs. Driggs is wearing.)
Mrs. Anderson gave it to me this afternoon. She said she couldn't think of keeping it after hearing about Ned; and that I must consider the money a loan.
Ruth: (Catching Nancy around the waist and whirling her about the room.) Just think! He's coming tonight! Oh mother! Why that's almost now!
Nancy: (Pulling Ruth toward the kitchen) If you need exercise, Sis, come in the kitchen and peel potatoes.
Mrs. Driggs: There's nothing to do, girls, about the dinner, except to set the table, and we won't do that right now. I prepared the vegetables before I went out, and made a pan of biscuits ready to pop into the oven when we want them. Hand me that dress, Nancy. I am like Ruth. I must do something to work off my excitement.
Nancy: We are all infested with the same spirit. It's always that way, mother. You say we never do anything by halves.
Ruth: And this just adds to the evidence that you know your onions. When we go in for bad luck we go the limit, get our fill then quit, and give someone else a chance. Right now we are strong for prosperity. The tide has turned, our ships are coming in faster than we can unload them. And to think! It all began with Nancy's deluge that day at Mrs. Gray's.
Nancy: (Reproachfully) Oh Ruth!
Ruth: Mother, how's this for a "pome"? Weep and your neighbors help you, Laugh and they throw a stone: This gray old earth is tired of mirth; If you want help just give a groan.
Mrs. Driggs: Ruthie, you're irrepressible.
Ruth: (Kissing her mother) Irresistible, you mean, dear.
Nancy: Mother, don't you think Mrs. Gray is wonderful? The way she followed me home that day?and?and?everything?
Mrs. Driggs: I certainly do, Nancy. Anyone can be generous with money; but it requires true courage and nobility to admit a fault and show such kindness and generosity as she has done ever since.
Nancy: She's a peach.
Ruth: She's better than that. She's a pear. That is, she and her husband are together. He's a lamb. Oh sugar! I'm getting my metaphors or something mixed again. Anyhow, I love them both.
Mrs. Driggs: Did any word come while I was gone?
Ruth: Woman! Good luck has turned your head. How many special delivery, airmail letters and cablegrams do you expect in one day? We've had two letters and one wire already this morning.
Nancy: Mother, I don't know what is going to happen to us with all this good luck. You've laughed more in the last month than you have altogether since fa? for ages.
Ruth: And Nancy, just look at her, Mother! She's positively blooming. And the boys, too. Did you know that Allen had bet his teacher an ice cream cone that he'd be president of the United States? And Bob's wanting to bet me his top against a nickel that he'll be a millionaire. May they both live to collect it!
Nancy: Brother Brown said he'd keep us informed?
Ruth: (Interrupting her) Well, he certainly has done that little thing. And he's not the only one. I believe every man, woman, and child in the entire mission has written us at least one letter in the last month.
Nancy: And lots of outsiders, too. Mother, just what did Dr. Humbolt mean about making Ned his heir?
Ruth: Didn't he want to adopt him?
Mrs. Driggs: No dear, I don't think he wanted to do that, but he has already made him his heir.
Ruth: Oh well, what's a few adoptions more or less between millionaires?
Nancy: I remember just what he said, mother. I know the letter off by heart.
Ruth: So do I.
Mrs. Driggs: I think likely we all do, dear.
Nancy: (Quoting) "I love your son, Madam, because through him I have learned the power and goodness of God. My so unusual experience of seeing his miraculous healing?(she hesitates with emotion).
Ruth: (Continuing) "My own loved son was killed in the war, and his mother died of heart break. Since then I am alone. Ned tells me that all his life he has wanted to become a great surgeon. Madam, because I love your boy, and because for what he has done for me, will you permit me to do for him as for my own son? Whether you consent or not, already by legal deed I have given him half my money; the rest will be his when I die." Talk about fairy godmothers! They can't hold a candle to fairy godfathers!
Mrs. Driggs: (Controlling her emotion with an effort) It is all so wonderful I can scarcely believe it is true. But the part of his letter that I loved most of all was this: "I used to believe in miracles and hoped that I might sometime see one, but for ten years my faith is dead. Until now! I believe! I believe! Ned tells me that the family relation is eternal, and that again in the hereafter my loved ones I shall have. That brings me a most wonderful happiness! And you can know now, Madam, why it is that I love your boy so much. If all Mormons are like Ned and his friends this gospel that he is always telling me about must be good. I am with years and sorrow grown very old." (Her voice breaks. She and Nancy are weeping softly. Ruth brushes her hand hastily across her eyes.)
Ruth: (Shaking her fist at the clock) Oh Sapphira, you old donkey! You tell everything but the truth. Say, I'm going out to engage the brass band to play, "Hail, the Conquering Hero Comes."
Nancy: (Looking out the window gasps) Mother! (She runs to the door and looks eagerly down the street) Mother! Mother! There comes Ned now! Oh, mother, our Ned has come home! (Ruth rushes to the door and pushes Nancy aside. Mrs. Driggs attempts to rise but sinks back limply.)
Ruth: (Excitedly) It sure enough is! Hooray! He must have caught the Limited. I can see him as big as Hercules. He's got Allen on his back and Bob's in his arms, and the whole neighborhood fighting to carry his bags. Hi there, Ned! (She fairly tumbles out of the door.)
Nancy: (Putting her arm around her mother) Come, mother, darling, shan't we meet him? (There are sounds outside of the eager exclamation of a crowd; and a clear, manly voice calling:) Mother! Mother dear! I'm home!
Mrs. Driggs: Oh, God, I thank thee! Ned! My boy, my boy! (She rises and starts toward the door as the curtain falls.)
Pioneers