COUNSELOR JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD
Counselor Julia Alleman Child By Julia A. F. Lund
The directing of ambition into spiritual channels, the linking of knowledge with the common and necessary duties of life?these traits constitute, perhaps, the outstanding characteristics of Julia Alleman Child. In reviewing the events of her life, one feels that she has demonstrated that some of this generation have not forgotten the deeper lessons taught by their pioneer mothers.
Julia was born in Springville, September 8, 1873, the daughter of Benjamin and Sariah Jane Starr Alleman. This fine couple, both descendants of Revolutionary ancestry, were among Utah's pioneers of 1850 and 1852, who played a major part in laying the foundation of this state. They suffered the hardships, but lived to see some of the fruits of their labors. Their spirit is preserved in their daughter.
Women of our day do not have to face the tasks their mothers faced, but they have tasks of their own, which they cannot fail to perform, while holding work not as a curse, but as a blessing. In the greatness of her work, Julia has believed sincerely. She has felt the thrill of service in her veins, and has been confident that to her was given the privilege of playing a part in the community in which she lived. This conviction has led her always to accept each opportunity to do the work that has been given her.
Her girlhood was spent in Springville, where she attended the public schools; later she spent three years at the Brigham Young University in Provo, under Dr. Karl G. Maeser. She took special courses also at the University of Utah. Those who were fortunate enough to be numbered among her schoolmates recall her popularity and leadership, which were evident at a very early period. With Julia, knowledge was the instrument of successful action; hers was a career "perpetual in its triumph," physical, mental, spiritual; and the breadth of her young life was secured by a diversity of interests and a wide range of activities. She seems to have acted upon the advice of Luther Gulick, "to see that all the hours of the day are so full of interesting and healthful occupations that there is no chance for worry to stick its nose in." Her school life was animated by a great and abiding purpose, which found full expression in the profession which she followed for so many years.
It is said that right living is the finest of the fine arts, and good teaching comes next because it is the most timely and most efficient means to right living. Other arts reflect life?teaching develops it. How successful Julia was in this field, and how many young lives she directed in right paths, is suggested by the fact that she taught in the Springville public schools for fourteen years, where she was generally acknowledged to be one of the best teachers in the county at that time. She was principal of two Primary Buildings, and Primary Supervisor. Her efforts were uniformly directed toward making "education a preparation for complete living." Throughout life her educational contacts have been very wide, both in the Church and in civic activities.
At the age of fifteen Julia was secretary of the Springville Sunday School; later she acted as a teacher. The Primary Association, also the Religion Class, profited by her efficient services. She was counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., in the Second Ward in Springville, and later was in the Presidency of the Le Grande Ward Mutual in Liberty stake. In August, 1912, Julia was chosen an aid to President Emily H. Higgs of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Liberty stake, and in 1917 was made a counselor to Mrs. Joseph A. Folsom, president of the Liberty stake Y. L. M. I. A. In May of the same year she became the chairman of the Red Cross work in the stake for the Mutual, discharging the duties of this important position until the end of the war.
In the reorganization of the ul action," sympathy as the ability and disposition to apply the Golden Rule, humility as the allegiance to what is spiritually above us, love as the fulfilling of the law, "the greatest thing in the world."
During the years she has been on the General Board she has traveled extensively in the work, and has visited a great many of the stakes, coming in close contact with the sisters of the organization. This experience, coupled with her breadth of vision and wide educational outlook, has qualified her to be a safe and able counselor to the General President.