General Secretary and Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund
Julia A. F. Lund is a member of a family that is outstanding in education and business. Her brother and sisters are recognized with her for their intellectual gifts. Mrs. Lund has devoted herself to education. She married Henry C. Lund, son of President Anthon H. Lund, who was a lawyer by profession. Mrs. Lund obtained her education in the Brigham Young Academy, the University of Utah, from which she took her degree and from institutions outside of the state, such as the University of California. Since her husband's death she has spent most of her time as director of educational work at the Salt Lake Civic Center, a position which gave her experience in administration.
Mrs. Lund has a keen mind and is everywhere recognized as a well informed woman. This information has been made manifest through her writings, through her teaching and through her public addresses. To her accumulation of knowledge she adds that indescribable something which may be personality and may be a gift of interpreting, enhancing, and transforming what she says. She is brilliant, naturally gifted as a speaker, and perhaps has the best right to be styled an orator of any member of the Board. She will bring to her new office, which is a very exacting office, information, brilliance, administrative experience and a fascinating personal address.
Sister Lund has a spiritual nature and her spirituality is contagious. She has faith in the religion she has espoused, and in the work of the great Relief Society, with whose fortune she has allied herself. She has an abiding faith in the triumph of the good, the true, and the beautiful. That which is unlovely, ordinary, or in any sense below a high standard, never appeals to her. You can arouse her nature at any time to the very depths by lending defense to anything wrong or unlovely. She has hitched her wagon to the stars, and there she has fixed her gaze; that which is low or groveling is no part of her. Of refined tastes and delicate emotions, she is a woman of stable character.
In thinking of her we are reminded of an artist's definition of an artist: "An artist is what he paints, plus." The plus is that which is of most importance, for it is the thing which determines whether the picture is bad, mediocre, or a work of art of the first magnitude. It is the plus that makes of the picture a work of art. It is the plus which raises everything Mrs. Lund speaks about or works at, from the level of the ordinary into a higher realm.
President Robison is to be congratulated on her choice of Mrs. Lund as secretary for she will grace this position as she has graced all the positions that she has filled during her active public life.