UINTAH STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, convened in the Ashly
Ward meetinghouse, March 3, 1889, President
Sarah Pope presiding. Siuging "Come all ye
Saints that dwell on earth," prayer by Brother
J. Hatch. Singing "Praise ye the Lord."
Minutes of previous conference were read and
approved. The reports of the different Socie-
ties were then read.
	President Sarah Pope made a few opening
remarks; asked an interest in the faith and
prayers of those present. Spoke of their visit
through the Stake; said there were some tried
with riches and some with poverty; spoke of
the need of charity, for there are those among
us that cannot help themselves; said if we done
the best we could, we would not be perfect;
we should try and overcome evil as much as
possible. Prayed the Lord to bless us through
this conference.
	Sister A. K. Bartlette asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of the people; bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
Spoke on the resurrection of our Savior and
the mission placed on woman to perform.
Thought all should be very careful how they
partake of the sacred emblem of the Lord's
Supper; gave the sisters some good instructions
to which all listened with intense interest.
	Brother J. Hatch made a few very appro-
priate remarks which were listened to very
attentively.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.tn. Singing
"Let those who would be Saints indeed,"
benediction by Brother I. J. Clark.
	Afternoon session. Singing "Afflicted Saints
to Christ draw near," prayer by S. R. Bennion.
Singing "Mortals awake with angels join."
Sacrament was administered by the Ashley
Ward Priesthood.
	Brother B. S. Collett then arose to address
the congregation; desired an interest in the
faith and prayers of the Saints. "We have
met to-day in the capacity of a Relief Society
conference. We find that after Joseph Smith
had organized the Church, he felt as though
there were something ladking, and therefore
organized the Relief Society." Gave the
sisters of the different wards some good in
structions in regard to their duties. He had
ever taken an interest in the young and rising
generation, and gave some good counsel to


[Column 1]

the same. He had received a great testimony
of the truth of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and gave much more
advice, occupying a great portion of the
afternoon.
	President Bennion made a few closing re-
marks, which were very interesting to all.
Conference adjourned until the second Monday
in September. Singing. Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
		ADDIE LONGHURST, Secretary.

