BOX ELDER STAKE.
     The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
tabernacle on March 12th, at 10 o'clock a. m.
	President Harriet Snow presiding: after the
opening exercises President Harriet Snow said:
"Sister Zina Young sent her love to all, but
could not be present with us, Sister Richards
is expected with the first train." Aunt Zina
"prayed that we may have a Pentecost. If we
exercise faith for the speakers, that the Lord
may speak to us through them, we may be en-
couraged and fed."
	Statistical and financial reports from 15
different branches were read by Secretary Mary
E. Snow. Treasurer's report read by Sister
Fannie Graehl.
	Sister Richards and Sister Brown from
Ogden arrived.
	President Hubbard from Willard: "I re-
joice in the society of the saints, in the prin-
ciples of the holy gospel, we know our depend-
ence on the Lord, let us be true to each other,
true to our religion and God."
	President Perry from Three Mile Creek:
"we live in a great day, if there is anything we
love more than our Father in heaven, it be-
comes our God; and He has said: "Thou
shalt have no other God." Let us strive to set
a good example and be willing to make sacri-
fices for our religion's sake."
	President Jane Richards: "I love to meet
with my sisters, I regret I did not hear your re-
ports. This is a great work, we learn many
things, although they may seem small, we need
the spirit of God, we are nothing without it.
I think the one who speaks with the most
humility, charity and love is the best speaker.
How blest and favored we are of the Lord; our
enemies are in the dark; many will yet see
their error, that time will come when we will
feel thankful that we passed patiently through
persecution. I have been 49 years in this
church but I never saw the time that I dared
doubt the principles of the Gospel." Spoke of
the death of her first child, how President
Brigham Young taught her to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord and give up her child in
faith.
	President Mary Jansen, Third Ward: "trials
are blessing in disguise we can better compre-
hend it after, than at the time we pass through
them.  I rejoice when I see old sisters still
faithful and not tired."
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing: "How
will the saints rejoice to tell," benediction by
Counselor Olivia Widerborg.
	Afternoon session. Singing: "May we know
the joyful sound," prayer by Counselor
Susannah T. Booth. Singing: "We are not
ashamed to own our God," roll called. Con-
densed report read by the secretary.
	Emilia D. Madsen felt that even in our
sympathies and in doing good, we can improve,
we must be thoughtful and considerate. I
consider the teachers position the most delicate,
but in blessing others, they themselves are
blest.
	Susannah Facer: "It is necessary for us to
be intelligent and filled with light, there are
many things we need to learn and become
wiser."
	Sister Hattie Brown: "I feel to be one with

[Column 2]

my sisters, I have no doubt in this work, never
had. It is a grand blessing to be organized as
a Relief Society. We all have to be tried but
not always in the same manner, therefore we
must have charity, we cannot live too faithful
too prayerful, the Lord is merciful, He knows
the desire of our hearts, I wish to be honest in
all my acts."
	Sister Harding: "I know this is the work
of the Lord, we should live so we might merit
the approbation of the Lord."
	President Harriet Snow: "The more spiritual
food we get, the more capable we are of receiv-
ing it. We never should allow ourselves to
harbor feelings against any one. Let us live
humble and prayerful, that we may rejoice in
the principles of our religion."
	President Jane Richards: Spoke of the
Hospital, it is hard to get along, they need
means and encouragement, told some of the
reasons why it is not in a flourishing condi-
tion. Explained why it is necessary for us to
organize the Suffrage Association. "How little
we know, I like to get that spiritual light, that
I may always be prompted correctly."
	Counselor Adolph Madsen: "I hope the
members do not expect too much of the officers
but exercise charity, remember they are called,
they have not sought an office themselves, if I
am a bishop, should I feel I am a little better
than the members? it would be wrong, I
should feel I am a servant to my brothers and
sisters, I presume you feel the same in your
offices, judging from the remarks I have heard.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing: "Oh, my Father thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Bishop Hansen.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Secretary.

