BE PATIENT,

Oh! "what can we do"? 'tis a question
	The children of sorrow repeat,
When the trust that to love is most vital,
	No longer with strength is replete;
When the lack of exalted perfection
	In dear ones too plainly is seen,
When life looks indeed like a failure—
	The threads so entangled have been.
'Tis hard when endurance seems wasted,
	And the heart for a recompense yearns,
When instead of substantial affection—	
	A shadow is all it discerns.
How many bright visions have vanished
	Like snow 'neath the sun's scorching ray?
How many discouraged and weary—
	Deplore shatter'd idols to-day?
Poor mourners' ye needs must be patient;
	But wherefore be bow'd to the sod?
Cease to glorify fallible mortals
	And learn to depend upon God !

Oh! what can we do? plead the parents
	Heart-wounded by daughters and sons—
Disconsolate fathers and mothers,
	Who mourn for their prodigal ones;
Could ye do, (Oh, ye bow'd and afflicted)
	Any more than you've willingly done?
'Tis a pity, from fountains the clearest,
	Some streamlets are soil'd as they run.
Alas ! there are subtle temptations;
	Mere tinsel, oft' glitters as gold;
Fierce Wolves—wait around in Sheep's clothing,
	To lead foolish lambs from the fold.
Yet, what can we do for these weak ones—
	But warn them, and ceaselessly pray,
For the angels of Mercy to guard them
	From evil, by night and by day?
And all the day long like "Our Father,"
	To the penitent "hold out our hands;"
Is it needful by harshness to sever—
	The ties that should bind us as bands?

If the whirlwinds of folly have injured
	A part of our family tree—
If a bough stripped of freshness and beauty
	Is even unsightly to see—
Though it mates not the blossoming branches,
	Be patient ! for aught that we know—
The sap from the trunk, may restore it,
	And strong as the rest it might grow.
But oh! when we fear that forever,
	Our own will be blighted and bare,
God only, can soothingly answer,
	The wailings of utter despair.

Ah! truly, what terrible heart-aches—
	The thoughtless, the reckless can bring;
Can deluge the household with sorrow,
	And sharp as a serpent can sting
The friends, who have trusted and loved them,
	The friends who would sooner have died—
E'er one of their number had parted
	With honor, and requisite pride.

Alas ! for the lack of compassion—
	For hearts that in silence must sigh;
The evil, for evil are watching,
	And all that is wrong they espy,
The finger of malice too often
	Is pointed with triumph and scorn,
At those who, more blameless are bleeding,
	Pierced through with ingratitude's thorn.
Some, forget, that the Lord has thus spoken:
	Whosoe'er shall calamity see—
And make it a cause for rejoicing,
	By calamity troubled shall be.

And what can we do but, be patient?
	Though stricken like Jacob of old,
When the patriarch's pride, even Joseph,
	By his brethren was hated and sold,

[Column 2]

Ah ! little they cared, that with anguish
	Their father's grey head was bow'd down;
And little they listened to conscience,
	Or feared the Omnipotent's frown.
But good out of evil oft' cometh,
	As even to Joseph, the youth,
For nought would he barter his honor,
	His trust was in God and in Truth.
Did shame cling at all to his garments
	Though his brethren were guilty of crime?
The worthy can woo consolation,
	And wait compensation's own time.

Perchance, 'twould suppress sweet compassion,
	And needlessly pamper our pride;
If the current of life all around us,
	Should smoothly and gracefully glide.
Can they pity the sorely afflicted
	Who never were tempted and toss'd?
Oh, how could we sense a bereavement—
	If nothing we ever had lost ?
Be patient ! "Ye heavily laden,"
	Be hopeful, 'twill lighten your care;
Be thankful, "the back fits the burden,"
	Be glad, there is comfort in prayer.
The strongest have need of God's guidance
	To "overcome evil, with good;"
The weakest can win His approval
	Who said, "She hath done what she could."

