THE POETS WORKSHOP.

	The idea of a poet suggests beauty and
loveliness. We read of the poets dream, the
poets reverie, and his imaginings, until we
create in our own minds an ideal picture of
the poet and his surroundings. We think of
him as seated with pencil in hand and in
elegant negligee, dashing off line after line of
exquisite sentiment, or historic lore in rhyme,
that will live long after he has passed away,
without any apparent effort, while he smiles
blandly and is at peace with all mankind.
There are persons who will ask one to write

[Column 2]

a poem with as much assurance as they would
ask a mechanic to plane a board, but in the
one case the carpenter would expect his wages,
whereas the poet is expected to give his services
gratis, and sometimes look upon it as a com-
pliment to be invited to write. These are the
people who have not the least idea what posi-
tive drudgery there is in being a writer.
The author, or the correspondent, is expected
to write when all others are out for pleasure;
there is no cessation or vacation for him, it is
an endless round, and if he positively refuses,
why then he is looked upon as unobliging.
He is invited here and there because he writes
those sort of affairs up, until he gets the im-
pression that he is never asked on his own
account, but simply because he has the faculty
of writing in a pleasant style. Probably the
poet is expected to do more work without re-
muneration than any other person. "O, the
rhymes will come," and "it is easy for him,"
and "I'm sure if I could write I wouldn't re-
fuse." These are only one or two of the
numerous comments made about poets.
	But suppose we take a look into one of these
dens of the poets, ordinary poets, not Tennyson
or Whittier, who have arrived at the dignity
of a mansion, whose star of fortune has risen
to the highest point in the horizon and is illum-
inated with a halo of light in which appear
clusters of stars less brilliant, that reflect the
light of the leading, guiding star; not one of
these, but some one just trying to earn a bare
subsistence by the use of the pen. Gifted he
may be, but without fortune to aid him, or in-
fluential patronage to give him prestige. We
are apt to think of the poet writing pastoral
pieces in the midst of sunny fields, where flocks
graze and sleek cattle feed among the clover
in the verdant meadows, while sparkling
streams of crystal waters bubble near, and
merry birds warble their sweetest notes in the
groves hard by. All this is very pretty, but
the poet sees it in imagination only, most likely
while he sits by his midnight lamp and pries
over musty old papers and books.
	Let us take a peep at a poet's work, in an
attic or a basement, one whose mind soars aloft
into the aerial realms of fancy, and who roams
at will through the elysian fields that gild his
day-dreams and makes him seem above the
"common herd." In one corner is a chest or
trunk half-open perhaps; you see part of a
wardrobe; rolls of manuscript and letters tied
with cords of every color, or scraps of faded
ribbon, a bureau with the drawers all half-
open and in disorder, two or three tables piled
with papers in the direst confusion imaginable,
but on one corner, a tea tray with soiled nap-
kins, cup and saucer, part of a loaf of bread,
a piece of cheese, and if we might be per-
mitted to tell it, a raw onion, and oftener still a
black bottle very significant in appearance.
Late iu the night when all the lights burn low,
the streets and lanes are dark, and the stars
keep watch in the midnight sky the poet pens
his richest, most harmonious lays; or the cor-
respondent, no longer tormented and inter-
rupted by the calls of friends anxious to make
his acquaintance, or some one desirous of a
notice from his able pen, begins the work so
long delayed, and the cocks are crowing, and
the sun tinging the eastern sky with the
splendor and radiance of the new born day,
ere he lays down his pen and finds rest in that
dream-land where his poetic fancy has been so
fondly straying. No wonder he is restless and
nervous, sensitive and irritable, his mind con-
stantly wrought to the highest pitch of extreme
sensibility.
	Now we have taken a look at the man who
writes, let us for a moment look in upon a 
poet-woman; imagination almost invariably
pictures to the mind's eye what the woman is
who writes the kind of articles we love to
read, as we sit by the cosy fireside in the winter

[Column 3]

evenings, or repeat over and over in the pen-
sive, summer twilight. We think of her as
lovely in its proudest sense, gentle, amiable
and courteous to all, sweet-mannered, a lady
in every respect, always becomingly dressed,
and neat in appearance, dainty, even; fond of
children and inclined to be devotional, almost
without fault at all, and blind to the failings
of others. Her home exquisite in all its ar-
rangements; her husband, if she be so fortunate
as to possess one, always proud and happy.
Now let us consider the poets we have met, or
the writers we have known. Among them are
some pretty and sweet, perhaps a trifle inclined
to jealousy, and not very aimable in their own
homes.  How can they be, they are not think-
ing of what to eat, or how to dress, or alas!
of the husband's wordrobe; and often when
they try to darn his socks they are flitting in
imagination among the soft, white, fleecy clouds,
and yet they are only commonplace to look at,
sometimes ugly in face and feature, but then
we only see the outward, the beauty is within,
and only makes itself manifest by soul-stirring
sentences, so delightfully arranged, that al-
though written in a garret, an attic, a dirty
kitchen, or a dingy basement, they light up a
thousand homes, and make gladness in human
hearts enough to compensate for lack of beauty
in form, or feature.
	Few lady writers have been beautiful, even
in youth, many passingly so, but to excel in
loveliness only a very few; of those who have
lived recently we can think of some who were
noted for their excessive plainness. The story
goes that a lady who was much given to scrib-
bling and whose powers were the admiration of
all the country round, and whose husband
withal was very proud of her, was one day
stoutly reproved by him for neglecting the
little ones, who were very noisy and trouble-
some. While baby, not yet a year old, lay in
the cradle crying for mamma, one boy had spilt
the ink, slapped his sister, and another had
broken the window, while the mother sat
writing on and on, as if unconscious of all
surroundings; at last the irate parent and hus-
band appeared upon the scene, and in dicta-
torial terms protested, tossing up her papers
and exciting her angry passions; finally, wo-
man-like, she began to cry, and refused to be
comforted, but amid her sobs, she managed to
make him understand, she had just finished a
touching little poem on domestic felicity, or the
pleasures of home. Suffice it to say he was
convinced against his will, that she appreciated
her home when he perused the poem, and never
afterwards was known to rebel, for she won
him over to her way of thinking, and all be-
cause she was a genius. But joking aside, to
have the desire, the longing to write, the intense
fascination, to be able to skim through the
clouds of fancy and weave a golden web of fine
spun threads, of which each one is like a
jewel radiantly set, is something no one ever
can comprehend, save one of these same fanci-
ful, poetical scribblers, who live in a world of
their own creation, and only come down from
the towering heights of fancy, when they are
hungry, cold or wretched. Such is the poet's
workshop, not what it really is, but what it
seems to him.
