OBITUARIES.
	It is with feelings of sadness we announce the death of
Sister Sarah Holmes, who passed peacefully from mortality
at her residence in St.Charles Idaho, February 26th, 1889.
	She had been connected with the Church for many years,
and was familiar with the trying scenes which so many of
the Saints have endured. She has for a number of years
resided in St. Charles, and since 1883 has filled the position
of Counselor to the President of the Primary Associations
of Bear Lake Stake, which she has done nobly and well.
	Notwithstanding she was advanced in years she was
never known to shirk any duty relative to her calling.
She was a peaceful unoffending woman, a faithful Saint,
and her precepts and examples will long be remembered.

Upright and honorable, chaste and refined,
Frugal and wise, thou wert good to mankind.
Brave thou hast been in defence of the right,
Seeking continually wisdom and light.
Friend of the motherless, who needed thy care
Teaching them always of sin to beware;
Trying to teach Zion's children to stand
True to each principle God should command.	
Striving to shield our dear children from sin.
By pointing the way where the victory they'd win.
How often when duty stared thee in the face,
Though thy body was weak, thou wert found in thy place;
And though storms might be raging and winds blowing high,
If appointments were made thou wert sure to be nigh;
But now thou hast passed from thine earth-friends away
To mingle with others in Heaven’s bright day.
And we feel thou hast finished thy mission on earth,
And gone to that home which was thine before birth;
Gone to meet the dear friends, thou didst love here so well,
Forever in peace with the righteous to dwell.
										AMY.

	Sister Rachel Davenport died at her residence  in
Iron County, Utah, Feb. 25th, 1889. She has been
a sufferer from Asthma and Dropsy for about eleven years,
and has borne her afflictions with patience; was always
cheerful, and had a kind word, and good advice to give
everyone, and was a strong believer in all the principles
of the Gospel. She was born April 6th, 1854, at Stockfort,
Lanchshire, England. She was the daughter of Thomas
and Mary Ann Wamby Pass, aged 34 years 10 months and
19 days.
	Her parents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the old country. She left there when
but eight years old, and emigrated to Utah with Brother
Willivm H. Dame, who was on a mission in that part of
the country; her parents emigrated some years afterwards,
but she remained in his family; Sister Louisa Dame watched


over her as mother. She was always a good, faithful and
obedient child.
	In the fall of 1872 she was married in the Salt Lake
Endowment house to James B. Davenport, and has since
been a faithful wife and mother. She was a member, of 
our Relief Society, and was willing to do all that laid in
her power for the advancement of the work. She always
manifested in her labors that meek and unselfish disposition,
characteristic of a true Saint of God.
	She leaves a husband, three children, and a great num-
ber of relatives and friends who miss her sadly.
					ELIZA BARTON, President.
					ANNIE M. TOPHAM, Secretary.


Training School for Nurses
     On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough- 
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books. 
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
     Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address:
M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.				Salt Lake City, Utah.

