SALT LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. held in the Assembly Hall
March 15th, 1889, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
siding. Opened by singing "Who are these
arrayed in white," prayer by Mrs. E. Howard,
singing "When shall we meet Thee." Minutes
of morning session of previous conference read
and approved. Written reports were read from
the 3-4-6-7-8-10-11-14-15-17 wards.
	Mrs. Freeze was pleased with the reports,
especially the increase of testimonies, would
like to have more manuscript papers edited and
as far as possible have them original. "We all
have come to gain a blessing, we shall not be
left without light, the Holy Ghost is the
greatest instructor, we are in possession of this,
we have had this gift sealed upon us and by
united faith we will receive blessings. The
foundation is to know this work is true, but it
is necessary for all to work."
	President Zina D. H. Young: "Obedience is
better than sacrifice" "and I arise this morning
to exercise the Holy Ghost and receive the
blessings following this act. The spirit of our
Heavenly Father is intelligence, we should be
in possession of it at all times, use it in all our
home duties.
	"It is to-day with us not yesterday nor to-
morrow, but to do our duty to-day. By over-
coming our selfishness we will have pleasant
feelings toward each other." Gave some ex-
cellent instruction on the nature of our con-
versation with each other, how our influence is
felt in future generations even beyond the veil.
"There is a power in closing our eyes during
prayer, also the response at the close should be
general. Prayed we might be humble and
faithful."
	Reports were read from the 19, Farmers, Mill
Creek, South Cottonwood, South Jordan, Herri-
man, Taylorsville, Draper wards.
	Mrs. Howard: asked all with faithful
hearts to ask of our Heavenly Father His
spirit, "by united prayer we will receive the
blessing. Many are looking for something new.
We do not yet live as we should that which

[Column 3]

we have received." Urged the practice of
punctuality. "It is the practical part of our
religion I desire to speak of. Good behavior in
houses of worship should be observed, when
a speaker arises to speak, think we are being
instructed by the spirit of the Lord, cease
whispering, remain in your seats till services
are closed. Politeness is another thing we
should practice, the pleasure it brings in re-
ceiving polite attention from each other." Had
thought of having printed the constitution of
the United States and Declaration of Inde-
pendence and placed where our young ladies
could study them, and understand our political
situation, be prepared to be wives that can
stand side by side with our husbands at all
times. Learn to be grateful for the blessings
you are in possession of, read good books, study
that which will be for your good, overcome
frivolity and vanity." Prayed that the spirit
of the Lord would be with us.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp: "if we come for com-
fort and blessings, and are united in our faith
and prayers, the spirit will inspire such things
to be said as are for our good. Our souls
need food, and feel strengthened after attend-
ing these meetings." Testified of the manifesti-
tations in the Manti Temple. "Our greatest
sorrow should be if we have grieved the spirit
of the Lord. Live so we can listen to the still
small voice and follow its whisperings." Spoke of
the duties of a wife and preparing for the same,
prayed our influence might be felt for good.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougal desired what she said
to be influenced by the spirit of the Lord.
Young ladies should do their work themselves
and serve the Lord in their youth. Spoke of
the influence we wield at home and in our as-
sociations with each other. "Do not devote so
much time to novel reading it destroys the
memory and is ruinous. The object of our as-
sociations is to teach us the principles of our
religion. Learn to be polite and polished."
Prayed we might realize our positions as
daughters of Zion.
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock; singing "Consider
the lilies. Benediction by Mary P. Young.
     Afternoon session. Opened by singing.
Prayer by Dr. R. B. Pratt, singing. Roll
called showing representatives from 20 associa-
tions. Minutes of afternoon session of previous
conference read and accepted.
	President Freeze said: "she desired the as-
sistance of Sisters Jane Freeze and Della
Eardley to aid in the work of visiting Associa-
tions. They were unanimously accepted by
the conference.
	Counselor Mary P. Young said: "It does my
heart good to see the members present; I be-
lieve there is a general waking up of the young
in all their meetings, which is very encourag-
ing. If we do not improve it is because we
turn a heedless ear to the many good teach-
ings we receive. We have good books and
good counsel with us continually and the time
will come when every thing we learn will serve
us." She closed by bearing a strong testimony,
of her knowledge that this is the true Church
of Christ.
	Mrs. Maria Holt said she desired to live
to see the Latter-day Saints grow and increase;
to see them always strive to do good. Said she
could see with the eye of faith that these young
ladies would be more mighty than their mothers
had been; and they should cultivate faith for
much is expected of them. The glorious spirit
of God makes us at all times happy. Con-
cluded her remarks by saying: "My desire is
that we may watch our footsteps well and pre-
pare our minds for the greater things that are
to come. We must be humble, faithful and
true unto the cause of truth, I pray God to
bless us that the earth may be better for our
living."
	Mrs. Jane Freeze desired the mother
to visit the associations and see wha


their daughters were doing; "they will become
more interested for such visits; teach them to
respond when called upon to take part in the
programme, and in this way they will become
more edified."
	Miss Edith Samson thought everything was
made easier by the Spirit of God: "and if the
young will only listen to the promptings of
God's spriit they will not go astray."
	Mrs. Clara S. Clarlyle said that through her
inability to attend meetings her mind had be-
come spiritually dwarfed: "we should not give
up to enjoyment at the expense of our meet-
ings but should strive to have the spirit of the
Holy Ghost with us at all times for which
spirit we should pray and live for always."
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said she was pleased to
bear her testimony to the truth of the Gospel:
"every young lady can say she believes this to
be the work of God, on a basis that is firm and
reasonable and by such a course a true knowl-
edge will come to her, and by such a course
the spirit of God does not become grieved;
we cannot understand the things of God ex-
cept by His spirit.
	Bishop Thorn said he remembered when he
was not favorably impressed with the idea of
women preaching but his mind had changed
and felt the work they had done was import-
ant. Bore testimony to the truth of the re-
marks he heard in the meeting. Prayed that
the blessings of God would forward the cause
of the work we are engaged in: "many great
events are transpiring and greater things are
yet to come. I can comprehend the work as
it is now rolling on. We will have many trials
but all will yet be well."
	Brother W. B. Dougal had observed the
good results of this work in the past. He
observed a great dearth of testimony bearing
on the part of the young and knew that the
only sure foundation was to obtain a testimony
for ourselves, which enlightens the mind for
the teachings of the servants of God: "These
teachings without the true spirit are sometimes
considered tyrannical by the young. A knowl-
edge of the truth would also reduce in number
the union of our young people with disbe-
lievers and should receive much consideration."
	President A. M. Cannon said the remarks
he had heard in this meeting were good and
would aid our cause. "That Mormon creed
'mind your own business' speaks volumes and
should receive consideration." He referred to
the subject of marriage saying "man could not
exist in a perfect state alone for man without
the woman is not in the Lord." Urged upon
the congregation the necessity of obtaining a
testimony, for nothing could dwarf a man's
efforts so effectually as an infidel wife. "God
has called us to be subject to His divine law, if
we do so we will be rewarded.  So may God
glorify and make us immortal if we do His
holy will."
	President Cannon, Bishop Thorn, and
Brothers Dougal and Curtis then set apart
Sisters Mary P. Young as first counselor to
Mary A. Freeze president of these organiza-
tions of this Stake: Sisters Maggie C. Shipp,
Edith Samson, Maria Holt, Clara S. Carlyle
and Jane Freeze as assistants; Elizabeth Smith
Secretary and Romania B. Pratt as Treasurer.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, "Guide us O Thou great Jehovah."
Prayer by President A. M. Cannon.
		E. SMITH, Secretary.


