GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	What a comfort to be seated, where we are
 sure we shall not lose a word of the eloquent,
soul-cheering words that are uttered at these
meetings. As we look round over the vast as-
semblage, and think with compassion of the
company who will sit with their heads bent
forward, and their ears strained to catch the in-
spired words, as they fall from the lips of one
who perchance, they longed and prayed to see
again in those assemblies, I can't but exclaim
in my heart—O! for a Brigham Young to
reason again with mothers who will persist in
bringing babes to drown with their precious
voices, the words which many have traveled so
far to hear. Now I'm not a crusty old maid
who dreads the sight of a child, and perhaps
my love for them is one reason why I wish
more earnestly for some one to show mothers
the wrong they do the sweet babes,as well as the
thousands whom they deprive of the feast
which they came to enjoy.
	I have thought the tired look on the faces of
both mothers and babes, would surely discour-
age them in bringing them again; but alas!
meeting after meeting, year after year, mothers
will persist in bringing, even into the center of
this vast building, children, whom they must
know will prevent themselves, as well as others
from hearing; but I think I hear you say: "do
not mothers need the encouraging words which
they may chance to catch between the cries of
their babes?" I answer if they do not, I don't
know who does. I am a mother myself; and
if I can't change with some one and leave my
little ones in good hands I will get my confer-
ence from the papers or at smaller meetings.
	I don't suppose my words will take effect on
the multitude, that is why I wished so heartily
for a Brigham Young.
	All honor too to the feeble voices who are
still able to instruct hundreds in a smaller
building; but if their owners could see the
drooping of the features, and realize the sink-
ing of the souls of the multitude, as they strive
to sit quietly and watch their motions while
their words are inaudible, and then to see the
kindling of the features and imagine the light-
ness of spirit when they see one who has a
strong, powerful voice arise to speak; and who,
but for the noise of children, would make all in
this vast building hear, they would surely cut
their remarks short and leave the main part of
the preaching to those whose voices can be
heard. I have been looking around for those
ushers who invite people to put their news-
papers in their pockets, and wondering why it
is worse to occupy the hour or more, we have
to sit here to secure a good seat, in reading the
news, than it is to spend it in chatting, or
scribbling as I have been doing.
		AN OBSERVER.
	Tabernacle April 8th, 1889.


[Column 1]

