			OF THE SUBJECT.

	It has often been asked what becomes of the
surplus of the female over the male popula-
tion of some of the states, especially of Mas-
sachusetts and Connecticut and perhaps some
of the other "down east" commonwealths.
An estimable lady by the name of Miss
Rebecca Jones, who herself belongs to that
number, and who was a school teacher for
nearly twenty years in a small New England
town, and who is now visiting friends in
Brooklyn, gave some interesting statistics
bearing upon this point to the writer of this
article.  She said:
	"I have kept a record of the girls who have
graduated from the high school of my native
village, where I have been a school teacher
since 1871, what they have done and what has
become of them."
	She gave the figures for the classes of the
years 1871 to 1876—from eighteen to eleven
years ago—and strange figures for any marry-
ing and giving in marriage community they
are. Continuing, she said:


"The average age of the female graduate from
a typical New England school is between six-
teen and seventeen years. Hence it will ap-
pear that the women of whom this list has
been made, ranging to-day between twenty-
nine and thirty-four years old, have done the
greater part of all the 'settling in life' that
they are likely to do. Out of a total of ninety-
nine graduates there were twenty-seven mar-
riages, eleven deaths and sixty-one are still
single. Strange as it might seem, the eleven
deaths were all caused by consumption. There
have been two cases of insanity, both of the
twenty-seven married group. The largest
number of children of any is three. Three of
the girls went to college after leaving the high
school, all of whom are married.
	"Of the unmarried sixty-one, twenty-one
follow a very usual feminine calling—that of
schoolma'm! One is at Hampton, Va., teach-
ing the Indians; the other twenty are in
country schools in or near their homes. Three
set type; one reads proof; one is head dress-
maker in a large establishment in New York
city; four are dressmakers on their own hook;
one is practicing medicine; three are music
teachers; fifteen are stitchers and buttonhole
makers in shoe shops, and the rest are home
bodies.
	"Just what has brought about such a pre-
ponderance of spinsterhood it is not altogether
easy to say. Some people have contended that
it did not exist, but statistics prove to the con-
trary. Such people have explained the great
surplus of women in New England on the sup-
position that most of them are widows, made
so by the hazardous occupation of the men
along the eastern coast. Widows there are in
plenty, but this sixty-one of my record cer-
tainly never married.
	"Probably most of them never had an oppor-
tunity to marry. There are few marriageable
young men at the present time to be found in
most of the small New England towns. The
serene quiet of this most lethargic rural sec-
tion of the country does not suit the active
spirit of young men of the day. They go
away before they are old enough to marry, and
the chances are that they don't come back
again.
	"If they do return they are impressed with
the lack of money in New England, outside of
the cities, by the length of time since the
houses have been painted, and the amount of
calculation required before he can find a place
where he can satisfactorily spend a dollar.
They do not stay long enough to admire the
hardy thrift that can wring a comfortable
support from the stony soil where a New
Yorker would starve, and 'the girls they left
behind them' cannot compare, so they seem to
think, for beauty of dress, fascinating coquetry
or small talk of society with the blandishments
of the city girls, who have insensibly become
their standard of admiration.
	"These things considered, it is fortunate for
the spinster that she is fast learning to think
it a natural and not altogether unpleasant
state of affairs to be what she is. They do not
look an unhappy lot, and New England is
learning to be tender of and appreciate them.
She does not call them 'old maids,' and the
fiction of their youth is kept up till they die.
One may hear of the 'Fisher girls,' the 'Smith
girls,' and so on for weeks before the truth
dawns that the 'girls' are well past the half cen-
tury milestone of life. They never married and
no one was ever cruel enough to mark out any
line beyond which they ceased to be young.
They are self-respecting and universally res-
pected.
	"There are New England towns great num-
bers, where the best educated and best bred
Yankee girl, of the best colonial families, can
go into the shoe shop and work there for years

[Column 2]

after she has ceased to be a girl, save by
courtesy, and still read the classics and move
in, perhaps lead, the most aristocratic society
of the town."—New York Mail and Express.


