RELIEF SOCIETY.

	(The first general conference of the Relief So-
ciety was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
Saturday evening April 6th, 1889)  Besides
about fifteen representatives of the various Stakes
the following ladies were upon the stand. Prest-
Zina D. H. Young; Counselors Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith; M. I. Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt,
and Presendia L. Kimball. (President Zina D. 
H. Young presiding;) congregation sang
"O, My Father Thou that dwellest," prayer
by Presinda L. Kimball; singing "Praise to the 
man who communed with Jehovah."
	Prest. Zina Young said: "My sisters, upon this
occasion I hope you will give me your faith and
prayers. As I look upon the sisters around me, I
realize we miss our beloved Sister Eliza, who on all
such occasions was with us. In the providence of
the Lord shewas taken from us. She mingles
with those above; we revere her memory. As this
is our first meeting of this kind I hope we can
unite our hearts as one that the Lord will bless us
in so coming together. May everything be agree-
able that takes place here this evening."
	Romania B. Pratt, the assistant secretary, then
read the totals of the general statistical reports,
and the names of the Stake presidents of the
Relief Society. On account of existing circum-
stances Prest. Zina Young had written what she
wished to say, and it having been approved by 
Prest. Woodruff, Mrs, Wells then read the paper.
PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	The Relief Society, under whose auspices we
have met together here to-night, to receive in-
struction, and advice in our several duties, was
first organized nearly half a century ago, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith; after the pattern of the
Holy Priesthood, and under its direction, to dis-
pense temporal blessings to the poor and needy:
and to give encouragement to the weak, and re-
strain the erring ones, and for the better develop-
ment, and exercise of woman's sympathies, and
charities, that she might have opportunity to at-
tain spiritual strength, and power for the accom-
plishment of greater good in the work of the re-
demption of the human family.
	We should be diligent in all the duties of life,
as mothers and wives, and as members ot the
Church, remembering to attend the meetings of
the Saints, including our Fast-day meetings, and
pay willing offerings to the poor, and our dona-
tions to the Temple; and with whatever belongs,
especially to the mothers, observe the law of
Tithing that the blessing promised may follow,
and that the little children may be taught this
important principle by example and educated in the
path of duty, which is the path of safety. Teach

[Second 2]

them to keep the "Word of Wisdom," and to be
temperate in all things; avoiding all evil habits
and pernicious practises, that they may have
strong bodies, and be entitled to the promise that
follows obedience to this commandment.
	Let us be careful to speak with wisdom before
our little ones, avoiding fault-finding, and slang
phrases, and cultivate the higher attributes of
our nature, that will tend to elevate, refine and
purify the heart, and make the home the centre of
attraction, where the spirit of love, peace and
unity will dwell, and that sweet charity that
thinketh no evil will ever abide; that we might
always be possessed of that heavenly principle
embodied in the song "Nay speak no ill."
	We should take the utmost pains to teach the
children of Zion to be honest, virtuous, upright
and punctual in all their duties; also to be indus-
trious and keep the Sabbath day holy; not to be
rigid or too severe, but as far as possible make all
duties pleasurable. Mothers should never speak
a word detrimental to the father's best interest
before the children, for they are close observers.
Sow good seeds in their young and tender minds,
and always prefer principle to policy, thus you will
lay up treasures in heaven.
	Our sisters who have been called to preside in
a Stake capacity, over several branches of the
Relief Society, should plead for wisdom from
above to direct their efforts, that the greatest
possible good may be accomplished. They
should visit each branch society in the Stake at
least once a year, and oftener if circumstances
will permit. Where sisters can do so, it would be
desirable and we think profitable, to visit each
other's organizations and become acquainted; it
will tend to union and harmony, promote confi-
dence, and strengthen the chords that bind us to-
gether, for there is more difference in our manner
of speech, than in the motives of our hearts.
	If the President of the society cannot be pre-
sent to preside, it is her duty to see that one of
her counselors attends to take charge of the meet-
ing, for the success of an organization depends
very much upon the efficiency and promptitude of
its officers. When a vote is required one of the
Counselors should make the motion, and after it
has received a second, the President shonld pre-
sent the motion, and call for the vote. President
Joseph Smith's instructions to the Relief Society
were, that the meetings should be conducted in a
parliamentary manner.
	President Young, in great wisdom we believe,
established the custom of holding quarterly con-
ferences, for the more perfect unity of interest in
the Relief Society, and President Woodruff ad-
vises us to continue in this respect as we have
been doing in the past. We should also keep
correct minutes of our meetings, that we may 
have a complete record, and then with very little
trouble exact reports can be made to the General
Conference.
	I trust the sisters will not neglect or grow
weary in the duty required of them in storing
up wheat. If it needs changing to preserve it,
the Presidency advise, in the case of loaning it,
the giving of written security, by the Bishop,
for the full amount, and something added to
allow for shrinkage, that the loan may be a safe
business transaction, and that all interested may
be satisfied.
	When Relief Society Conferences are to be
held, the Presidency of the Stake and the Bishops
should be informed of the time, and invited to
attend the meetings, that harmony and union
may exist, and strength and encouragement be
given to the diligent sisters, and that others see-
ing their good works, might be induced to come
to meeting, and enjoy the same good spirit and
feeling, that pervades the hearts of those who
meet often one with another, to be instructed in
their duties, and to gain spiritual strength and
wisdom for the various ylcissitudies of life.

[Column 3]

	It is the privilege of the sisters, who are faith-
ful in the discharge of their duties, and have re-
ceived their endowments and blessings in the house
of the Lord, to administer to their sisters, and
to the little ones, in times of sickness, in meek-
ness and humility, ever being careful to ask in
the name of Jesus, and to give God the glory.
	Do not find fault with the Providences of God,
it will not better our condition and only make
our burdens heavier to bear; but rather be
patient through all the trials of life, and speak
not against the Lord's anointed.
	It is our duty to be self-sustaining, and to foster
and encourage home industries, and home manu-
factures, and patronize those institutions that have
been established for the best interests of Zion;—
the co-operative stores; and be careful not to use
the means we have been blessed with, to build up
those, who are seeking to destroy and overthrow
the work of God, and to plant discord, strife and
dissension in our midst.
	The silk culture is one of the branches of home
industry, that demands our earnest attention. I
have never yet doubted, but, that it would event-
ually become a fruitful source of revenue to this
country. In the first sermon that I heard Brigham
Young preach in this valley, he remarked "there
is silk in these elements," and I have heard a
number of silk weavers say, "Utah silk was the
best fibred silk, they had ever seen." Sisters do
not be discouraged in any of the duties we have
undertaken to perform; I am aware we have many
responsibilities resting upon us, and also realize,
that we all have great need to be diligent and
prayerful. The Deseret Hospital is one of the insti-
tutions that needs to be sustained, in order that we
may have a place where the sick and the afflicted
among our people, may go when it is necessary,
and receive the medical and surgical care, nursing
and attention suited to their condition; and where
they can have the Elders of the Church to ad-
minister in the sacred ordinances of the holy
priesthood. We should not forget, or neglect our
duty to this charitable institution; keep up your
monthly donations for the Society, and continue
to be members of the Association, and remember
"he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord
and He will repay."
	We should use our influence, too for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of educational institu-
tions, in which our children and young people,
may be taught the true principles of the everlast-
ing Gospel; and discourage any tendency to out-
side influences, calculated to lead them into doubt
or unbelief. In all things possible, let us en-
deavor to cultivate our home talent and stimulate
our sisters to read, and to write, that they may be
intelligent wives and mothers; read good books,
especially the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants. The EXPONENT, is at
present, the only paper we have where the voice
of woman is sent forth especially, to instruct us in
our duties, and encourage the brave and deter-
mined ones to persevere in the midst of difficulties,
and also to give expression to the views and
opinions of the women of Zion on subjects of vital
importance. And we recommend that the sisters
subscribe for it, and read it, that they may be
posted upon the condition, growth and progress of
the various organizations of the women in Zion,
and elsewhere; and become familiar with the
efforts being put forth, for the uplifting, and
further advancement of all womankind; and of
the changes made from ttme to time in the direc-
tion of progress.
	Sisters, let us be as one grand phalanx and
stand for the right; let us be humble and firm,
honor truth, and be valiant in sustaining it, not
presuming, but trust-worthy in all things. Have
we not shouldered the cross of the world's scorn,
and braved its anathema with more valor, than
the warrior the cannon's fury? Death with him,
and then all is over, but we endure to live


[Column 1]

﻿eternally. Purity, love and integrity, let these
virtues live in our hearts; then the sunshine of a
loving Father's smile will be ours. Do not doubt
the goodness of God or the truth of the work in
which we are engaged; but learn obedience, it is
better than sacrifice; follow our file leaders and
fear not.
	May we do a work acceptable to our Heavenly
Father, and that will meet the approbation of our
brethren, who are called upon to endure for the
truth’s sake, what the Ancients did, when seeking
to establish righteous principles to benefit
humanity. May we as women of Zion, ever know
and honor our true position, and continue to grow
in grace, and abound in good works, until He
whose right it is to reign shall come.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards then said: "I trust
my beloved sisters, I may have an interest in your
faith and prayers for they avail much. I feel
many times that it is the greatest pleasure we
have—the privilege of praying—for no one can
rob us of this. The instructions from Sister Young
are such as we ought to adopt. I for one feel
like accepting them. We miss Sister Snow, and
although she encouraged us saying "Don't get
faint, go ahead," Sister Young now fills her place
and gives the same advice.
	I was thinking how befitting the words of
Sister Young in regard to the Hospital were. If
we do not have to go there, there are others with-
out homes coming a long distance, who find care
and attention in this place for the sick. The
greater willingness of the sisters, daily, betokens
an increase in our charity. The charity we want
is that which is manifested in kindness and for-
bearance towards one another. We frequently
do little things which try each other, and it is
then we should exercise our charity. Especially
should we be forgiving towards the young;
they have a long life before them, and if
in spending a few moments frequently with them
we probably can teach them to avoid mistakes we
have made, let us do so. Let us seek for the
spirit that characterized our Savior; in Him was
perfect kindness.
	I desire to say a word in regard to the EXPO-
NENT. In it, sisters, we can learn a great deal in
regard to our daily duties. It has been edited
with great patience by Sister Wells. Do we ac-
knowledge it as we ought ? I believe we have
been a little careless in this regard." The
speaker invoked the blessing of God upon the
congregation.
	President Zina Young stated she was anxious
to hear from those representatives who had come
a great distance.
	President Anna Ivins, president of Relief
Society of St. George Stake represented the or-
ganization of the same, stating that although the
country was hard, they possessed the necessaries
of life if not the luxuries. "The attendance in the
twenty four wards of the Stake is small in com-
parison with yours in this section. It takes a
month for me to visit the wards."
	Counselor Martha Hammond of San Juan Stake
stated that in attending conference in San Juan
they had to travel over a hundred miles, neverthe-
less the sisters were true and faithful in attending.
The speaker realized that if we were blessed as
we expected, the settlements would soon grow
closer, thus easing matters and enabling the First
Presidency of the R. S., to visit them.
	President Hinckely from Bannock Stake said they
had fifteen ward branches. "The attendance with
some is regular with others not so. We need very
much the visits of the sisters of the presidency.
The speaker expressed great joy in receiving such
good instructions as were imparted in the meeting.
	Emery Stake was represented by President
Annie U. Larsen who stated that she in company
with several others had recently visited the seven
branches in that Stake and found them in fairly
good order. They had grain on hand. There

[Column 2]

could not be found any destitute among their
portion of the church. In several instances the
Relief Society had assisted missionaries.
	Counselor B. W. Smith expressed great joy in
meeting with the sisters as they were assembled.
"When the Relief Society was first organized
as I well remember, there were but few, but those
few had a good spirit. I can hardly realize it to
have grown so much. We should set an example
before every one worthy to be followed, being
punctual, diligent and charitable. We should
cultivate the Spirit of the Lord and thus avoid be-
ing led astray."
	The General and Stake authorities of the
Relief Society were then presented to be sustained
by vote by Sister Sarah Kimball, the vote was
unanimous.
	The roll of stakes was called and responses
made as follows: Bannock, Bear Lake, Box
Elder, Davis, Emery, Juab, Kanab, Millard,
Oneida, Salt Lake, St. George, San Pete, Sum-
mit, Weber, Morgan, (presidents.) Beaver,
Parowan, Panguitch, San Juan, (counselors.)
	(Sister M. I. Home then spoke, saying she con-
sidered it a great privilege to meet together,where
by the blessing of God correct principles could
be advanced and we learn to become more per-
fect. She realized that Sister Eliza's mantle had
fallen on Sister Zina just as Elijah's desended
upon Elisha. Sister Eliza had been with us long,
and we felt her absence, and there was another
associated with us formerly whom we missed,
Mother Whitney, who had so often in our meet-
ings sung in the gift of tongues in the language
spoken in the Garden of Eden and blest us all
and lifted us for the time above the cares of the
world, and we cherish their memory in our hearts,
their loving words and wise counsel can never be
forgotten. The reward for our labors is not to
be obtained in this life but awaits us at the gates
of Heaven. The speaker bore her testimony to
the fact that, in the face of the seemingly most
insurmountable difficulties it was the duty of the
sisters to press on in their good and noble work.
These difficulties appear when our minds are
clouded with unstable thoughts, but if we but
think, we can see the munificence of God's bless-
ings on every hand. The Lord is our friend and
helper and in trusting in Him are we aided.
	The Kingdom of God is a kingdom of order.
Joseph Smith's instructions in regard to the con-
ducting of our meetings were, that parliamentary
rules should be observed. Always transact your
business first. Then bear your testimonies. The
Secretary should be very particular in taking
minutes, not necessarily long, but complete. The
Secretary and Treasurer just before a conference
should meet and compare notes, making their re-
ports perfect.
	President Young invoked the blessings of God
upon the congregation, after which, the meeting
adjourned for six months. Congregation sang on
page 107 "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."
Benediction pronounced by Sister Harriet Snow.


