WOMEN OF SAMOA.

	The women still love to dress in the natural
products of the native bush. Around their
throats they wind necklaces formed of a dry
scarlet berry, or shells sewed upon a strip of
cloth. Sometimes a fringe made from the rib
bones of a fish is attached to this necklace, and
often a spiral boar’s tusk forms a handsome
though barbaric ornament. Like their civil-
ized sisters the Samoan belles will endure any
amount of pain and discomfort in order to be in
the fashion, but, unlike them, they enjoy leap
year privileges all the time and exercise the
right of choice, for time or for eternity, with

[Column 2]

perfect freedom from a suspicion of unmaiden-
liness.
	The Samoan women, as a rule, are good
looking, but every village boasts its "beauty."
"Tampo" is the Samoan name given to the
village queen. Generally she is the ruling
chief's own daughter, or one adopted by him.
She is at all times a girl of high rank in the
place itself, or in that of her parentage. From
the first day of her installment to the day of
her departure, marriage, elopement, or dethrone-
ment for bad behavior (which in quite recent
times was effected with a club), she is virtually
the queen of the place. It is she who receives
strangers on arrival in her town, makes kava
for them, and personally sees to their comfort
and entertainment. Never, from one year's
end to another, is she permitted, to be out of
sight of her attendants. When abroad she is
invariably accompanied by as many of her
youthful companions as are available for the
service. They follow her in single file where-
ever she goes. She heads all processions, and
visits and takes the leading part in all "swas,"
or native dances.
	Her attire on gala days is of the gayest de-
scription that the town can afford; and every-
thing is ungrudgingly sacrificed that can add
to the glorification of her personal appearance.
It is she, on these occasions, who has mainly
to uphold the prestige of the town. It is only
when dressing for any ceremony that she ap-
pears to have no will of her own. On such
occasions, a long time before the commence-
ment of the ceremonial, the old women take
entire possession of her. On them devolves
the exercise of the mysteries of the Samoan
boudoir. Everything is done for the proud
damsel, who stands patiently suffering any
amount of coercion, one tithe of which she
would not permit for a second were it not part
of her duty as the beauty of the town. She
is first taken in hand by two or three of her
attendants, who briskly shampoo her all over
with sweet scented oil until her warm colored
skin shines like satin. Another will energetic-
ally brush her jet black locks, and afterward
plait or otherwise arrange them in the manner
that the combined wisdom of the old people,
assisted by the suggestions of twenty or thirty
of her youthful companions, may dictate.
She will then be ready to entertain "the stran-
ger" and prepare for him the kava.
	Above all things the native women excel in
the art of dancing and posturing. The most
popular dance among them is the "Siva,"
which is performed by four or five maidens to
the accompaniment of a tuneless song and
drumming on the tom-tom. It consists of
posturing and movements of the body and
hands, which are made in unison and in time
with the music. Some of the figures are ex-
ecuted while standing erect upon the feet, but
in most of them the dancers sit cross-legged
upon strips of matting spread upon the ground.
The postures are many and varied. Some-
times the right hand rests upon the neigh-
bor's left shoulder, and left hand upon the
dancer's knee, and sometimes this motion is
reversed. One position is with the right hand
spread upon the ground in front, and the fingers
of the left hand touching the biceps of the
dancer's right arm. Another is a more
thoughtful attitude. The right hand supports
the left elbow, while the left cheek rests upon
the index finger of the left hand. Of all the
graceful Samoan dancers none can compare
with the daughter of Patua, one of Metaafa's
most prominent chieftains. Her movements
are so exquisitely graceful and full of such
dreamlike motion that Europeans and natives
alike have combined in naming her "The
Dream."—Sacramento (Cal.) Report.


A girl's club for the study of domestic
economy has been formed in St. Louis.


