UTAH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Y. L. M.
I. A., was held in the Provo meeting house, at
2 and 7 p.m., with President Zina Lyons pre-
siding. The afternoon was occupied in reading
the semi-annual report of the associations, and
hearing reports from the various wards show-
ing the majority in a flourishing condition.
	Territoral President Elmira S. Taylor felt
proud of the progress made, and interest
manifested in the association, and instructed
the presidents in regard to the programs.
	Sister Annie K. Smoot, spoke of her early
experience in the Church, and the circum-
stances that caused her to join; also of the evil
resulting from bad associations.
	In the evening, after a few opening remarks
by Counselor Grace Smith, Stake president,
Zina Lyons instructed the congregation in re-
gard to sorrounding circumstances; advising
them to be examplary in all their actious.
Thought they could find more pleasure in the
performance of their religout duties than any
other way.
	Bishop H. H. Cluff thought the young ladies
were of Holy lineage and needed to watch and
pray in order to be kept in the right path that
they might gain the glory promised to the
faithful, which would cause them to sacrifice
earthly things which could not be understood
in any other way, and knew of no pleasure as

[Column 2]

satisfactory as that derived through its work-
ings.
	Brother D. John spoke of the noble mission
of woman, and the future happiness in store
for the faithful daughters of Zion; and con-
sequences resulting from evil associations,
	Presidhnt E. S. Taylor advised all to have
pure thoughts, and desiers to lead lives of
honor. Many had come among us for what
they call a refining purpose, instituting schools
of learning in our midst, and proving they
are not followers of the meek and lowly Jesus.
They are as restless as the tides of the ocean
because of the pleasure they are seeking which
is not as lasting and enjoyable as that experi-
enced through our most holy religion. Desired
the young ladies to verse themselves on the
scriptures in order to have a weapon that they
might defend themselves, God being their
helper. Counseled them in regard to choosing
a companion; not allowing themselves to give
their affections until they know of God what
was right; and to select one that would lead
them onward and upward in God’s kingdom.
Closed by bearing a firm testimony to the
truth of the work.
	An unusual portion of the Holy Spirit was
enjoyed during our conference, and the interest
ef the young people is increasing in the work
of Improvement.
		ZINA LYONS, President.
		EVLYN BILLINGS, Secretary.

