EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The minutes of the Woman Suffrage Meeting
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, on Thurs-
day April 11th, came too late for this issue, but
will appear in our next.
	The General Conference of the Church held in
the Tabernacle in this City April 6th, 1889 was
probably the largest Conference ever held since
the organization of the Church. It was an event
of very great importance and will never be for-
gotten by those who were present especially the
meeting on Sunday afternoon when the various
quorums of the priesthood seated according to
their order, and all the members of the Church
voted for the reorganization of the First Presi-

[Column 2]

dency and to sustain  all other officers in their
several positions and callings. The First Presi-
dency as sustained by the Conference are Wilford
Woodruff President, George Q. Cannon, First
and Joseph F. Smith, Second Counselors.
	The Annual meeting of the 8th Ward Primary
Association was held March 19th in the meet-
ing house, Mrs. Jane Cowan presiding. Visitors
present were Mrs. Louie Felt President of the
Central Board of the Primary, Mrs. Lillie
Freeze her First Counselor, and Mrs. Ellen
C. Clawson and Lydia Ann Wells of the Stake
Board, also Mrs. E. B. Wells and Elizabeth
Howard. The house was nearly filled and the
exercises were of a very edifying character besides
being well rendered. A class of little ones re-
eited  "The Floral Alphabet," which was an interest-
ing feature of the occasion. The children all per-
formed their parts in a creditable manner. Re-
marks calculated to inspire faith and stimulate to
good works were made by Mrs. E. B. Fletcher and
Mrs. C. Palmer, and also by Bishop Sheets and
Elder John Needham. A tempting collation was
spread for all; the children had their picnic in an
adjoining room where they made merry to their
hearts content in feasting.
	Seven of Drs. Shipp students in obstetrics
graduated March 30th, and received their Di-
plomas from the examining committee, and they
were also blessed and set apart for their work as
practitioners among the people, at the Historian's
Office preparatory to leaving for their homes.
Their names and places of residence are as fol-
lows: Miss Emma Hillstead, S. L. City, Miss Mary
Sawyer, American Fork, Utah Co., Mrs. Parthenia
A. Holt, Hoytsville, Summit Co., Mrs. Christina
Peterson, Scipio, Millard Co., Mrs. Mary Sorenson, 
Teton Bingham. Co., Idaho Mrs. Louisa Gibbs,
Paradise, Cache Co., Mrs. Libbie Bybee, Hooper-
ville, Weber Co. There was an interesting pro-
gramme for the evening's entertainment in which
recitations were given, songs were sung, instru-
mental music on the piano, and speaking by
several of the brethren and sisters who were
present. Dr. Milford B. Shipp, President
Zina D. H. Young, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Mrs. E.
B. Wells, President A. M. Cannon, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze and others. Congratulations were ex-
pressed and good advice given to the fresh grad-
uates. Ice cream and other delicate refreshments
were served and the evening passed off pleasantly.
	The friends of Mr. and Mrs. George Alder of
this city offered their congratulations on the
twenty-fifth anniversary of their marriage on Mon
day evening April 8th, at their residence on South
Temple Street at which time the happy couple
celebrated their Silver wedding. It was also the
forty-fifth anniversary of the marriage of Mrs.
Alder's father and mother, who were present, and
received their share of the congratulations and
good wishes of the company of relatives and dear
friends, assembled to do honor on the happy
occasion. The bride looked charming and as
happy as though it was really the wedding day and
the sons and daughters were kept busy enter-
taining the guests. The parlors were brilliantly
lighted and handsomely decorated, and everything
betokened joy and festivity. Miss Margie Dwyer
rendered in her happy stlye some instumentalt
music on the piano, and Messrs. Alder, Barrat
and Dwyer, sang one of their favorite pieces.
Miss Dean Caine also favored the company with
one of her choice selections in song. Refresh-
ments in rich abundance, with ice cream and
wedding cake were tastefully served during the
evening and all went merry as a marriage bell.
The usual supply of wedding gifts from particular
friends were received, and there seemed nothing
wanting to add to the happiness of either host or
hostess or their sssembled guests. May their
future life be serene and happy, and their ex-
periences ever unite them still more closely to-
gether and their children rise up and call them
blessed.


