After an absence of several months, Ben sent Ann a sum of money. She decided to use this money as part payment on her passage to Utah. The decision was made hurriedly, as it was now April and the last company of Saints to leave that year were to sail May 2nd. It took more than five months to reach Utah and the trek across the plains had to be made before the cold weather began. It was impossible for Ann to take her entire family with her. Mary, now twelve years old, was left in the care of some distant relatives by the name of Pie, who operated a factory where china was burned and decorated. It was agreed that she should work as an apprentice for her board and keep.
A Brother and Sister Tovey had recently joined the Branch, coming up from Scotland where they had "embraced" the gospel. Little was known about them but Ann felt that anyone who had become a Latter-day Saint was to be believed in and trusted, and so it was that she left behind, in charge of this couple, her five year old son Henry. Annie and Thomas the baby she took with her.
IT was a long hard journey—many weeks on a sailing vessel, where the baby contracted "Ship fever"—then torturous days in railroad cars, and then the long tramp across the plains. Little Thomas was very ill now—wasted away by the fever to almost a skeleton. Ann carried him in her arms as she trudged along beside the covered wagon train. Before she reached the mountains he died, and for the first time, Ann's all but dauntless courage failed her. She could not endure the thought of placing in the ground the body of the little son for whom she had visioned so splendid a future.
It was Horten Haight, Captain of the Company, who came to her rescue. Taking from his wagon a wooden bread box he improvised a coffin, and helped Ann prepare the tiny body for burial. A simple service was said over the little grave, and with leadened feet and a heavy heart she continued the journey.
UPON reaching Utah Ann went immediately to a small settlement eight miles north from Salt Lake City, known as Bountiful. Here she had friends—Saints she had known in England—and here she opened a shop where she made hats and did sewing and tailoring; hoping thereby to not only support herself and daughter Annie, but to accumulate enough money to bring her children to Utah.
ANN had a keen appreciation of the beautiful, a fine artistic sense of line and color, and a love of the nice things of earth. Poverty she had endured, but the crudeness of life in this mountain village often appalled her. It was a painful thing—this slow process of a people from an old civilization taking root in a new land.
ANN was blessed with an abundance of vitality and she worked early and late, often sewing far into the night, in her struggle to get warm clothing, bedding and money enough to send for the children, but nearly three years had passed before Ann had accomplished her purpose. The clothing and bedding were sent to New York, the money to England, and Mary now a girl of fifteen was prepared for the journey, but no trace of the boy Henry could be found. And so it was that a great search was set up in the Branches of the Mormon Church throughout the British Isles.
Chapter II
THE TOVEYS, tireing of the restrictions placed on them by the teachings of the Church, appeared shortly after Ann left England, taking the boy Henry with them. Their sole earthly belongings were a violin, a Bible and a bundle of clothing. It was Summer time and on foot they went through the green lanes of England. They worked a little at odd jobs and begged, and at night they slept huddled together under the hedges. But when cold weather came they sought the cities where shelter could be had at low cost, and where Mr. Tovey, who was a stonecutter by trade, would sometimes find employment.
BOTH Mr. And Mrs. Tovey were given to drink and many hours were whiled away at Taverns where Mr. Tovey played his violin and Mrs. Tovey sang in a cracked voice, in return for which they were given free drinks and sometimes food. They taught Henry a number of old English ballads, and he would stand on a table and entertain the patrons by singing in a sweet childish treble, afterwards passing his hat for pennies.
One day some soldiers noticing the splendid rhythm of the lad suggested that he would make a good drummer boy for the army. When Henry was seven the Toveys, who had now changed their name to Gaily, quarreled seriously and decided to separate. Mrs. Gailey, Henry learned from their conversation, wanted to join a brother who had recently finished a term in prison, and Mr. Gaily not wishing to be encumbered with a small boy and evidently remembering the comment of the soldier, took him to near by Barracks where he was accepted as a drummer boy in the British Army. Measurements were taken for his uniform, and Mr. Gaily was to return with him the following day, but that night as Henry slept his Mother's face appeared before him. She was weeping and the promise he had made at their parting flashed into his mind—"Promise me," she had said, "that if I am unable to send for you, that you will, when you grow to be a man go to Utah." The dream awakened him and something within him said, "if you serve in the army you will never get to Utah." He got up quietly and taking his clothing in his arms crept down the stairs and out into the dark street. He stopped to dress, and then started on his pilgrimage back to Thorplton where he thought he could find the Elders who had known his mother.
FOR many weeks he wandered about. Eating when he could find food and sleeping with other street urchins in empty boxes and doorways. He inquired everywhere for Mormon Elders, but no one seemed to have heard of them, and so overcome by loneliness and longing for the healing influence of the familiar he retraced his steps back to where he had lived with the Gaileys. They welcomed him back and life for him settled back into the old groove.
ANN EVERINGTON had been in America four long years, and Henry had passed his ninth birthday when the Elders found him. He was a sturdy lad like his mother in appearance—the same clear blue eyes with the wide setting, the same fine head line, and the same air of serious earnestness. He could neither read nor write, nor did he know the letters of the alphabet, but necessity had made him a keen observer, and he was far older than his years. He joined his sister Mary at Liverpool and late in April, 1866, they set sail for America.
MUCH could be told of that long journey. Of the wonderful weeks at sea, where the boy made fast friends with the sailors, and so spent all of his waking hours on deck, and where to his great delight one of the sailors tattooed a blue anchor on his right forearm. There were the days at Castle Gardens and more days in dirty crowded railroad cars that carried them to the middle west, but it was when they reached the plains that a new world opened up to the lad. There were the great stretches of land, and a sky that met the land at its outer rim—he loved to lie flat on his back, to feel the broad earth under him, and watch the wind blow the prairie grass that stretched out miles and miles before him. The wagon train with its drivers, its confusion and noise was a constant delight to him—and there was the campfire when the dark closed in around them. He slept with the other men and boys under the wagons, shivering in the cold because the bedding sent by his mother had been lost, and the only covering he had was the flannel petticoat of his sister that was dropped down to him when she went to bed inside the wagon. He was up early and out to the campfire to warm himself, he liked to watch the sun pulling itself up over the edge of the earth, its coming meant warmth and comfort.
During the day he made tours of inspection that often led him far afield. Once he was left behind and forced to swim the Missouri River before he could rejoin the wagon train. It was there that he lost his coat and shoes—a loss that filled him with a sad foreboding. He had lovely remembrances of his mother. Her clothes made by herself often from cast off garments of her rich customers, had a line and a style that gave her a fine appearance, and Henry thought her very beautiful. He remembered her exactitude about clean hands, well brushed hair, and neat clothing, and the sight of his bare bruised feet made him miserable.
Then one evening a kindly providence came to his rescue. Along the trail they came upon a cluster of log cabins that had been burned, and were still smouldering. Henry stayed behind to investigate—sticking out between two burned logs, were the charred legs of a man, and on those legs were a practically new pair of shoes. He pulled and tugged until the shoes were free from the dead feet, then running swiftly he caught up with the train and climbing quietly into the back of a provision wagon, he hid his precious find against the time when he should meet his mother—A great burden had been lifted from his heart.
IN October they reached the "Valley." As the long wagon train slowly wended its way through Immigration canyon, Henry hurried ahead and climbing to a high cliff, caught his first glimpse of Zion. There was the great dead sea basking in the rays of the setting sun—to the right was the small city, snuggled up against the mountains, and to the left were the green cottonwoods. It seemed a small world to the boy who had already seen so much. The wagons rolled into the city streets, and at last the great moment had come. The lad rushed to the provision wagon where his treasure was hidden. They were a man's shoes, much too large for him—but they were shoes, and slipping his bruised and swollen feet into them, he marched at the head of the procession up Main Street to the Tithing Office where his mother awaited him.