New Year Call (A Monologue) By Estelle Webb Thomas
WHY, how-do-you-do, Mary! How fresh you look! How do you do it? Such a bitterly cold day, too! I haven't ventured to put my nose out of the door today, this fire looks more attractive than calling, to me, and I'm so fagged out after the holiday, always, that I can hardly exist! Terrible bore, aren't they?
"Oh, you like them! Well, you certainly must have more pep than I have—or fewer friends! I believe if I have to entertain another guest or go to another party, it will simply slay me!
"Oh, yes, the presents are nice! Did you get many, this year? Draw your chair up to the fire and I'll show you mine.
"This bathrobe and slippers are John's gift. Original, isn't he? I told him if he couldn't do better next time, he could just give me a check. I could surely find something I'd like! And I gave him the loveliest silver service, just the thing for a formal dinner!
"Those pillow slips are from Ethel. I wonder if she thinks I can't recognize cheap, machine-made embroidery, when I see it! My gift to her cost easily five times as much! The beautifulest hand-drawn collar and cuff set!
"That's from Gladys. Hold your nose! When did Gladys ever know me to use such cheap perfume! But I'll get even with her! I'll send it back to her next year!
"Those guest towels are from Elinor. They are really rather nice—but do you know where she got them? They are precisely the same, box and all, that her rich aunt in Chicago sent her last Christmas! I suppose she doesn't remember showing them to me! Of course, it wouldn't really matter, but you can't tell me they haven't been used and laundered at least half a dozen times!
"Just look at these statuettes from Sue! Doesn't she know those things went out with tidies? But I suppose if one can pick up a bargain at the five-and-ten, it doesn't pay to turn it down!
"Sam sent this book. You'll notice he waited till it got into the popular edition so it wouldn't cost so much! And it's by his favorite author, though he knows I abhor the man! He'll be over to borrow it in a day or so—save buying for himself, you see!
"And what do you think! Clara merely sent a card! Oh, I know they lost everything this year, but when she remembered that my gift to her last year, cost five dollars, you'd think she would feel obligated! Oh, well, I sent her only a card this time, too, I just had a feeling—
"And Aunt Jennie! When I think how I've waited on that woman, and pampered her and stood for her whims! And, believe it or not, her Christmas check to me this year was for ten dollars! I never dreamed it would be less than a hundred! I'd counted on it to cover all my outlay for gifts! And mind you, she gave it to me just as she was leaving, so I'd be just as nice as possible to her all the while she was here!
"Oh, those other things! There's really nothing worth looking at! Not one of them is anywhere near as valuable as the things I sent. And I had supposed some of those people were my best friends, too! Well, you never can tell!
"Oh, by the way, dear, thanks, so much, for the card case! It was lovely. So much like the one I gave you two years ago, isn't it?
"Yes, some people actually say they enjoy Christmas! To me, the whole thing is so irritating I'm simply prostrated for a month afterward! So much fuss and bother! And to hear John rave about the bills one would think I simply spent money for spite! Why, I've got to where a piece of tinsel will throw me into hysterics, and I can't bear the sight of my dearest friend!
"What! Going? Well, I've certainly enjoyed your call, dear! Come again when we all recover from the holiday rush! Good-bye!"