Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke X—LIGHTING YOUR HOME
EVERYONE who is interested in beautiful interiors, and this should include everyone who is interested in making her own home beautiful, realizes the tremendous importance of correct lighting. However carefully furniture and draperies may be selected the ultimate result can be largely negatived by inappropriate lighting. Artificial light has a peculiar charm possessed by no other medium and by its skillful use in decoration delightful results are obtained. Indeed the beauty of a room at night as well as its comfort depend in a large measure on the choice and placement of the lighting fixtures.
The first light was probably the glow from the hearthfire, followed by the glimmer of burning rushes held in wrought iron devices. Centuries later we find oil and tallow candles used. The home of the French peasant and the palace of Versailles differed only in the number of candles. Next came the oil lamps, the first of which we find exemplified in the "Betty" lamp of New England, an open boat affair filled with oil and a wick coming through a spout at one end. Only a hundred years or so ago gas lighting was introduced and this was considered a revolutionary advance. Finally, in comparatively recent times we have electricity which has reached real heights of perfection and usefulness.
There are two systems of electric lighting—direct and indirect, both having their good points and their adherents. The direct system throws the light directly on the room and its furnishings or on the spot to be lighted. The indirect throws the light on the ceiling from where it is reflected back in the room. It gives a soft pleasing light near the floor but lights unduly the ceiling, which is the last place in the room that should have brilliant light. Although this system may be advocated by doctors and eye specialists as very fine for the eyes it is not particularly artistic.
Another indirect method is cove lighting. A metal trough is placed around the walls about one foot from the ceiling. It is lined with white and decorated on the outside to suit the room. In it are placed lamps at regular intervals, the ceiling acts as a reflector which diffuses the rays. This and other schemes of concealing the light are used a great deal in modern decoration where the idea seems to be that light and its sources should be integrally a part of the room, not an added effect. It seems, however, a little mechanical and gives an effect of coldness. We cherish an open fire as a symbol of home, so with light, to actually see a friendly glow of light is to give one a feeling of satisfaction.
To really light a room efficiently and ideally provision should be made for soft lights for mellowness, adequate and concentrated lights for special activities and well-distributed light for general use. The secret of good lighting is in artful and gradual contrasts of light and shadow. Therefore, good lighting is not necessarily quantity lighting. Every room should be as a picture. Place the lights so there will be good composition, centers of interest and balance of light and shadows—illusory shadows which play about the walls and ceiling for beauty. No room is lovely with too brilliant lighting, either natural or artificial, everything seems harsh and defects stand out. Shade the source of light and the romance and beauty return.
ALL lighting falls into two groups, fixed and portable. The first includes the lights that are incorporated in the architecture, in the construction of the walls themselves. Portable lighting gives more freedom for individuality in interior decoration. Fixed lighting includes chandeliers, lanterns and wall-brackets. The first of these, the chandelier, is a doubtful contribution to the decoration scheme of the ordinary small room as it throws the light too high. Artificial light should come from approximately the same level as natural light and that is obviously not the ceiling. So it is usually a safe rule to leave it out of consideration except in a very high ceilinged room, ballroom, hallway or French room, where a crystal chandelier is a part of the period decoration. If you desire to install a center chandelier or light to provide brilliant light for a party or when a large crowd is assembled it is permissible, but there should also be side lights at a lower level for general illumination. If both a center fixture and wall brackets are used they should be of the same type.
Hanging lamps and lanterns give more latitude in handling than do chandeliers. There are many admirable designs in both types. The lantern is very important in the hall where it is a dignified and suitable method of lighting. The Colonial hall has always been lighted by a lantern. An elaborate hall calls for something elaborate in a chandelier or wrought iron lantern. For a delightful yet inexpensive effect use a Chinese paper lantern over a simple electric drop.
THE most successful way of lighting a room is by means of side lights or sconces well placed about the room with proper regard to openings, panelling and balance. A particularly suitable place for wall brackets is on each side of the overmantel or mirror (unless portable girandoles or candlesticks are used on the mantel). They may be placed on either side of an important picture, door or window or at sides of panels or in centers of small panels. Be sure the electrician does not set a bracket off-center or in the middle of a panel, thus interfering in the hanging of pictures or placing of furniture. They should carry the light in a balanced, even distribution around the room. Side lights make a glow part way up the walls of a room. When below them there is a sufficient number of table and floor lamps the whole room will be properly lighted in the pleasantest and least obtrusive manner. The proper height for wall brackets is slightly above shoulder height, or about five feet in the average room.
Portable lighting includes table and floor lamps, torches and candles. Lamps if placed for use will prove of decided importance in the furnishings of any room. In buying a lamp never consider it apart from its ultimate environment, no matter how beautiful it may be in itself. If it does not fit practically and decoratively into the scheme it will only bring discord.
In choosing a table lamp consider it first in relation to the table, its shape and color in relation to the room. Use white lamps only in a room of very delicate hue. Be careful in using decorated lamps, remembering the light will be thrown down on the decoration and emphasize it. Chinese pottery, urns, vases, figures and carvings come in jade, woods and metals for us to choose from. Most of the very fine lamps are expensive, to be sure, but if it suits your room scheme a fine lamp is usually a worthwhile purchase. A very lovely vase, a pottery bowl, to a certain extent spoils the personality and individuality they possess.
The floor lamp is a modern development. As a piano lamp it first found a deserving place. The reading lamp by an easy chair is indispensable; the adjustable bridge lamp is splendid for use at a game table, secretary or desk. Lamps should be placed to the left of a desk.
Lanterns and candelabrum mounted on poles and standards are used with good effect in halls and dining rooms. The secret of a good floor lamp is to select shafts that are as simple as possible. Elaborate carving should be avoided. Heavy ironwork should have a heavy base so it will stand firmly. Either floor or table lamps should be placed in relation to furniture. A light should be on or near the desk, on the most important table in the room, one near every easy chair and by the chaise-longue or couch. Practical and beautiful effect may be had by the use of a pair of lamps on a long table. A davenport should be equally lighted at both ends. This may be accomplished by a large lamp with a shade adjusted so the source of light will not shine in the eyes.
Candles and candlesticks provide a strong decorative note. There are many lovely candlesticks, especially of period form, made of wood, carved and gilded, of pottery, silver, brass, glass and other materials. Candlesticks should always hold candles, even though they may not be used or the obvious purpose of the article is disregarded. The wax candle itself is a beautiful thing and contributes no small item to a room's decoration. Decorated candles may be used occasionally, however, elaborate ones are so obviously not intended to be burnt that their use is questionable. Colored candles often provide an interesting note. No light is softer or more beautiful than is candlelight, and in its use on the dining table we are giving expression to an innate dignity. Candelabra on the buffet, dining table or mantel holding two, three or more candles are very lovely. Although nothing has ever equaled in beauty and charm the glow of a candle there are now on the market tiny electric bulbs with a flickering flame which prove delightful substitutes for real candlelight. Never use a shade on real candles or on these imitations if you want true elegance and distinction. Always complete the candle's perfection by the use of a bobeche, which is a small saucer-like affair into which the candle fits at the top of a candlestick meant to catch the drippings.
A BARE electric bulb is not a thing of beauty and should have a shade. In choosing any electric bulb remember its primary purpose is to provide light in desired intensity and location. The type of illumination that will give the best results is determined by the needs of the room, but to be consistent use bulbs of such intensity that they will give only the same amount of light the original media did in the period which the fixture represents. This can be illustrated by the following example: In some of the lovely French chandeliers hung with crystal pendants the idea of the prisms was to magnify the light from the candles. To use them today with globes of considerable intensity does not give the same results. Avoid glare. A number of dim or subdued lights are preferable to one or two blazing bulbs. In selecting fixtures be sure they are suitable to the room for no fixture is beautiful if it is disproportionate or too prominent. Lamps beautiful and suitable to the room are not only decorative in themselves, but add charm to the article or furniture with which they are grouped.
Lampshades are very important. They should be lovely in themselves, yet inconspicuous, and let light filter through them in a gentle diffused glow. "The perfect lampshade should be so related to its surroundings, so harmonious, so inconspicuous you forget its presence and only enjoy the service it gives." Never choose shades of erratic lines. Usually a shade wide across the bottom is best as it gives a larger spread of light. The shade should conform in period, scale and design with the lamp. It should not be set too low on the lampstand, nor so high it shows the lighting machinery. The lines of the shade and lamp together should make a graceful and pleasing design.
Materials suitable for lamp shades are China silk, georgette, taffeta, chiffon, pongee organdy (especially good for bedroom lamps), gold and silver cloth, chintz, chiffon, velvet, Dresden silk, leaded glass, metal mesh and parchment. Highly decorated shades are never good. A well-done mural on a parchment shade is good as are many of the Venetian scenes. Simple pleated, tailored silk is most tasteful, or parchment. The latter is especially suitable on wrought iron. The texture of the material should agree with the textural treatment of the room and its furnishings. For brilliant light shades should be lined with white.
Shields on wall brackets (if not imitation candles) are appropriate and should be made very simply. An excellent idea is to use two or three thicknesses of the glass curtain material bound with material like the overdrapes, thus tying them up with the rest of the room. If candles or sconces are placed to light a picture they should be shielded so as to throw light on the picture. Bead fringe or other ornate decoration is not good as the light is deflected by the fringe and distracts the eye.
Sometimes a room is very charmingly completed by making the lampshades of the same chintz that is used in the curtains. The chintz is first starched then bound and accordion pleated, a silk cord may be drawn through the top to hold it in place, or it may be made on a wire frame. A paper shade may be made in the same way. Some pleasing lampshades have been made by mounting old prints on them and cutting away the paper behind so the light will show through and bring out the colors. Old costume prints often make very charming shades of this sort.
A Spanish Galleon shade is made by pinning a piece of wrapping paper smoothly around the frame and trimming close to the wires, allow 1/4 inch overlap. Unpin and use as a pattern for a parchment paper covering, lay flat on table, apply a transfer decoration in ship design. Let dry, give front and back two coats of white shellac. Sew over and over to the bottom and top rings of the shade frame and cover the stitches with a binding of black velvet ribbon.
IN introducing color into the lighting by means of colored shades on lamps the color scheme of the room should be considered. Apparently many prefer bright red wall covering if one may judge from observations. This is usually a matter of not knowing, but extremely bright and pure colors in lighting effects are very much like living with a brass band. If a room is decorated for natural lighting then, logically in artificial lighting it should receive the same color, but sometimes other color introduced in the lampshade may relieve a monotonous scheme. Slight tints of rose and yellow may add something pleasing, but deep yellow, orange or red form a garish note as well as have an obliterating effect upon the flesh tints of the face. Blue should always be avoided unless it is very pale and lined with a warm color. Tans, creams and yellow tints are excellent giving mellow and soft light without absorbing any of it. Rose and rose tones are good in the bedroom, but unless in a very dark oak room never use red shades.
Where a room is of definite period throughout the lighting fixtures should, of course, follow that period. Although it is impossible owing to lack of space to go into this subject at any length, brief mention might be made of some of the styles. Spanish and Italian rooms call for wrought iron fixtures of a candle type. Star lanterns are suitable in either Venetian or Spanish rooms. Adam and Georgian decoration call for mirror reflectors as well as crystal pendants. Queen Anne fixtures also use brackets with mirror backs which twinkle back the lights in front of them. Old ship's lanterns and lamps of punched tin are good in Early American rooms. Tole is equally suitable in Empire and Directoire, as well as fitting in with modern decoration. French Louis XV and XVI used delicately carved and gilded brackets and crystal chandeliers. The old-fashioned oil lamp type of brass or pewter with cut glass shades and with or without crystal prisms is correct in a Colonial room. Many styles of early lamps have survived to the present day and as electric fixtures find use in modern homes.
Each room presents a different problem in lighting and we might summarize some of these needs briefly. In the hall, or at the front entrance a lantern sounds a note of hospitality. The hall may or may not have standard lamps or wall brackets at either side of a hall table. The living room needs side lights, a pair of lamps for a long table, a desk lamp and each easy chair should be within the circle of light from a table or floor lamp. There may be candlesticks or girandoles on the mantel, and a bridge lamp is very convenient for the game table. The dining room should have wall lights, lights on sideboard and candles on the table. If you feel there should be a light over the dining table use a simple hanging light with a deep shade or a shade that is covered to conceal the bulbs from the bottom. The library needs table and reading lamps and a light which may be turned on the bookshelves to help in finding a desired book. The bedroom should have first and most important a bedside lamp, then wall brackets or small boudoir lamps at either side of the dressing table, a lamp by the boudoir chair and by the desk if there is one. The nursery should have shaded light, which, if turned on while a baby is asleep, will not be disturbing. The bath needs only a light at the mirror and one in the center if it is a large room. The kitchen needs light on the working surfaces. A daylight lamp in the center of the ceiling, with drop lights over sink and stove will usually provide that. Outlets at least every twelve feet around the baseboard are very desirable to permit of the placing of portable lights wherever you may need them.
Far from constituting a problem the choice of the most interesting as well as the most correct lighting fixtures for any scheme of decoration is nowadays an opportunity to add the final touch of completeness, and always striving for beauty and perfection of decoration never forget or sacrifice that essential homey quality necessary for a satisfactory result.
Next Month: Pictures and Bric-a-brac.
Relief Society Conference
THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS By Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of the Twelve
I HAVE been asked to say something in relation to the Doctrine and Covenants. First I will give, briefly, some thoughts in regard to the early history of this book.
Shortly after the organization of the Church the members were desirous of obtaining copies of the revelations given up to that time. In the summer of 1830, the Prophet, by Divine commandment, commenced to copy and prepare the revelations, no doubt with the thought in mind of having them published. Some of the Elders were carrying copies in their pockets, as far as the Lord would permit them, for there were some revelations at that time they were forbidden to publish to the world.
On November 1st and 2nd, 1831, a conference of the Elders was held at Hiram, Ohio, when it was decided that the revelations should be compiled and published. On the first day of the conference the Lord gave approval to this plan by giving a revelation which he called his "preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth." While this was not the first revelation given to Joseph Smith, it appears as the first revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants, naturally, as it is the custom to place the preface of any book today in the beginning of the volume.
Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer were appointed to carry the revelations to Independence, Missouri, where they were to be published. The Prophet made haste in the choosing and preparation of these revelations so that the brethren could start on their journey to Missouri about the middle of November. W. W. Phelps, one of the early members of the Church, was by trade a printer. He had gone down into Missouri. The printing press and type were brought down the Ohio River from Cincinnati where it was purchased, and across the country to Independence, and the revelations which had been selected by the Prophet were set in type, that is, most of them.
But this was slow work. We must remember that they were living in pioneer times, that Kirtland was about as far from Missouri as we are here from Winter Quarters, from which point the pioneers started on their journey to the Rocky Mountains. We do not stop to think of that, and so it took some time. By the Summer of 1833 most of these revelations had been printed, but not all. At that time trouble arose, and a mob destroyed the press, scattered the type, and destroyed most of the copies that had been printed, however, a few were saved. This was known as the Book of Commandments. As I have said very few of the sheets were preserved so that there are very few copies of the book, so far as it was completed, in existence. I only know of five or six copies that are to be found today.