In the year 1834, a committee was formed, consisting of the Presidency of the Church, and some others, for the purpose of again preparing the revelations and having them published. This selection of revelations went on, and in 1835 was presented at a Conference of the Church held on the seventeenth day of August, and there was approved. When the Prophet made this selection, he made the statement that he prized these revelations beyond the wealth of this whole earth. I want to read to you just a word or two of the testimony of the Council of the Twelve in relation to these revelations, which were accepted on August 17, 1835:
"We, therefore feel willing to bear testimony to all the world of mankind, to every creature upon the face of all the earth, that the Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men and are verily true.
"We give this testimony unto the world, the Lord being our helper; and it is through the grace of God the Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, that we are permitted to have this privilege of bearing testimony unto the world, in the which we rejoice exceedingly, praying the Lord always that the children of men may be profited thereby."
Each man signed his name, beginning with Thomas B. Marsh, then President of the Council, and ending with Lyman E. Johnson, the youngest member.
At this Conference it was decided to include in this publication of the Doctrine and Covenants seven Lectures on Faith. These lectures have been given before the Schools of the Elders in Kirtland during the years 1834-1835. In accepting these seven Lectures on Faith, it was made very clear to that Conference that they were not received on a parallel with the revelations, but were accepted as helps in the study of the doctrines of the Church, and so they were added to the Doctrine and Covenants with that understanding.
At this Conference two other articles were also received, read, approved, and ordered to be printed in the Doctrine and Covenants, one on Marriage and the other on Laws and Government. These two articles appeared in each edition of the Doctrine and Covenants from the first edition in 1835, until 1876. We should remember that these lectures on Faith were not revelations, and were not considered so in the beginning. These two articles, one on Marriage, and the other on Laws and Government, were not revelations. I want to impress this upon you, because this question comes up constantly, especially by members of the Reorganized Church, who accuse us of taking a revelation out of the Doctrine and Covenants. This article on marriage was not a revelation and I want you never to forget it.
I hold in my hand a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants published in 1869, one of the last before that article was taken out. Do not forget what I am going to tell you, that at this Conference held on August 17, 1835, Joseph Smith and Frederick G. Williams, one of the Counselors in the Presidency, were not present, they were in Michigan. That is a matter of recorded history, we know where they were because we have it in the documentary history of the Church. So this article on marriage, and this article on Laws and Government in General, were written by Oliver Cowdery in the absence of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Prophet knew nothing of the action that was taken ordering them printed with the revelations. These were not revelations, and never were so considered, and were ordered printed in the absence of Joseph Smith, and when Joseph Smith returned from Michigan, and learned what was done, I am informed by my father, who got this information from Orson Pratt, the Prophet was very much troubled.
Orson Pratt and Joseph F. Smith, my father, were missionary companions, they traveled together, and my father learned a great many things from Orson Pratt of these early days. When the Prophet came back from Michigan he learned of the order made by the Conference of the Church, and let it go through. Now the Prophet did know something about these Lectures on Faith, because he helped to prepare them, and he helped also to revise these lectures before they were published, but these two other articles, he had nothing to do with them.
In the days of Nauvoo, the Lord gave Joseph Smith a revelation on Marriage, that revelation appears under date of July 12, 1843. That is not the date that the revelation was given, but the date when the revelation was recorded. That revelation on Marriage was not placed in the Doctrine and Covenants until 1876.
In the year 1876, the first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants published in the west was published by David O. Calder of the Deseret News. Orson Pratt, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, had added to the body of revelations, a great many others as we have them now in the Doctrine and Covenants, that were not in these earlier editions, and this section known now as Section 132, was among those so added. It would not have been consistent to have allowed that article on Marriage to stay in when it contradicted the revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, so they took it out, and very properly. That is a matter of history that we ought to be familiar with.
I want to read from this article on Marriage to show you that it is not a revelation and could not be:
"According to the custom of all civilized nations marriage is regulated by laws and ceremonies: therefore, we believe that all marriages in this church of Christ of Latter-day Saints should be solemnized in a public meeting, or feast, prepared for that purpose;"
I do not believe that at all. We solemnize marriages in the Temple of the Lord, at an altar. We do not have a crowd, and it is not a feast.
"And that solemnization should be performed by a presiding high priest, high priest, bishop, elder, or priest, not even prohibiting those persons who are desirous to get married, of being married by other authority."
I do not believe that. I believe every marriage in this Church should be performed by a High Priest who is appointed by the one who holds the keys to perform that ceremony for time and eternity, at the altar in the House of the Lord, and it ought not to be performed anywhere else. Of course they had no temples and no understanding of the ceremonies for time and eternity in the year 1835, so we will have to excuse Oliver Cowdery for that. However this article is not the doctrine of the Church, and cannot be, you can see that.
"We believe that it is not right to prohibit members of this church from marrying out of the church, if it be their determination so to do, but such persons will be considered weak in the faith of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ."
Of course we do not believe that we should prohibit people from marrying outside of the Church, we cannot go to that extent, and prohibit them from doing it, but we should counsel against it, and teach against it, and try to persuade them not to do that sort of thing.
"Inasmuch as this church of Christ has been reproached with the crime of fornication, and polygamy; we declare that we believe that one man should have one wife; and one woman but one husband, except in case of death, when either is at liberty to marry again."
Of course there was no doctrine of Plural Marriage in the Church in 1835, but Orson Pratt said (I get this from my father who was his missionary companion) that the Lord did reveal to Joseph Smith, before 1835, and before 1834, and as early as 1832, the doctrine of plural marriage. The Prophet revealed that to some few of the brethren, and Orson Pratt was one of them. He said the Prophet told him that, but it was revealed as a law or principle that was not at that time to be revealed to the Church, or made public, or practiced, but something that would yet come, that was future. I have the confidence that Orson Pratt spoke the truth. So it would be inconsistent, I say, to keep that article in here, when the revelation known as Section 132 came to the Prophet Joseph Smith and was added to the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants.
IT is not necessary for me now to go into further detail in regard to the history of these revelations more than to say this, that in 1876 Orson Pratt divided the Doctrine and Covenants into verses as we have it now. Before that it was not divided, and then it was sent to England to be published—both the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon, as we now have them divided into verses and the Book of Mormon into chapters, also with the foot notes. This was in 1879 when the first editions of the Doctrine and Covenants and Book of Mormon, with footnotes, were published in Liverpool, England. All of the printing of the Church works, after we were driven from Nauvoo, until 1876, was done in Great Britain.
The Doctrine and Covenants, that is the title of this book, and how much more significant it is than "The Book of Commandments." A Book of Commandments means, if we accept the title at its face value, that it contains only commandments. But this title which the Lord gave when they got out this edition—let me refer to the title page; "The Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," is very significant, and tells the story of what this book actually is. It contains the doctrine of the Church; it contains the covenants the Lord will make with the Church, if we are willing to receive them.
In my judgment there is no book on earth yet come to man as important as the book known as the Doctrine and Covenants, with all due respect to the Book of Mormon and the Bible, and the Pearl of Great Price, which we say are our standards in doctrine. The book of Doctrine and Covenants to us stands in a peculiar position above them all.
I am going to tell you why. When I say that do not for a moment think I do not value the Book of Mormon, the Bible and the Pearl of Great Price, just as much as any man that lives—I think I do. I do not know of anybody who has read them more, and I appreciate them, they are wonderful, they contain doctrine and revelation and commandments that we should heed; but the Bible is a history containing the doctrine and commandments given to the people anciently. That applies also to the Book of Mormon. It is the doctrine and the history and the commandments of the people who dwelt upon this continent anciently. But this Doctrine and Covenants contains the word of God to those who dwell here now. It is our book. It belongs to the Latter-day Saints. More precious than gold, the Prophet says we should treasure it more than the riches of the whole earth. I wonder if we do? If we value it, understand it and know what it contains, we will value it more than wealth, it is worth more to us than the riches of the earth.
I heard a brother say he could not read the Doctrine and Covenants because it was so much like a dictionary. We have heard practically that expressed here this afternoon. It is not a consecutive story—it changes the subject, and so on—well of course it does.
ABOUT thirty years ago, when I was a president in a Quorum of Seventies—and in those days we did not have any supervision so far as our study was concerned—it was decided by that Quorum of Seventies that they would study the Doctrine and Covenants, and I was appointed to be the class teacher. We took it up section by section. You are not going to get all there is out of it in any other way. You may take it up if you want to by topics, or doctrines, that is good, but you are not going to understand the Doctrine and Covenants, you are not going to get out of it all there is in it unless you take it up section by section, and then when you do that you will have to study it with its setting as you get it in the history of the Church. When we studied the Doctrine and Covenants in those days, we did not take the Doctrine and Covenants for our text book, but we took the Documentary History of the Church. The first volume had just been published, and it contained the greater part of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, with their setting, so that we got the reasons why this revelation was given, and that revelation was given, and with this background, so there was greater interest in the things we were studying than there would have been if we had taken the revelations in some other way. And so we studied it for a number of years. I do not remember now how long, but we were still studying it when I was called out of that Council to the Council of the Twelve.
May I say that the family I belong to, for five or six years, I do not remember just how long, has been holding meetings practically monthly, and we have been studying the Doctrine and Covenants, taking it up revelation by revelation, we have got over to about Section 88. I have been trying for years to get the Priesthood of the Church to study the Doctrine and Covenants. I partially have succeeded, but they are not doing it (with all due respect to you brethren of the Priesthood) as they ought to. Every man who holds the Priesthood in this Church ought to be familiar with it and know its contents.
I WANT to call attention to something here. In this Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, which was given November 1, 1831, the Lord has something to say that I think is very significant, because he tells us why this book is published. "Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together." There is the trumpet call to the Latter-day Saints, and to the people on the islands of the sea, and in every land, to give ear, for the Lord has something of importance to say. And then he goes on to tell how every heart will be penetrated, every ear shall hear and every eye shall see, and the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken from the housetops and their secret acts shall be revealed.
I want to show you here from this very revelation why these revelations are given, so I am going to read from verse 17:
"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments.
"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets—
"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh—
"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;
"That faith also might increase in the earth;
"That mine everlasting covenant might be established;
"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers.
"Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding.
"And inasmuch as they erred it might be made known;
"And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed;
"And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent;
"And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time."
That gives you an idea of why we have the Doctrine and Covenants, and this is given not only to the Church, but to those on the islands of the sea, in foreign lands, and to everybody. These are the reasons: that faith might be increased; that the everlasting covenant might be established, that the gospel might be preached, that men might be brought to repentance, and understand the things of God.
Two days after that revelation was given, at the close of the Conference, the Lord gave another revelation, and since it was given after the close of the Conference, it was called the appendix, now section 133. In this the Lord says:
"And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the power of his Spirit.
"And for this cause these commandments were given; they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh—
"And this according to the mind and will of the Lord, who ruleth over all flesh."
Just another word in regard to the value of these revelations. In another revelation the Lord said this:
"And again, I will give unto you a pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived; for Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the nations—
"Wherefore he that prayeth, whose spirit is contrite, the same is accepted of me if he obey mine ordinances.
"He that speaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek and edifieth, the same is of God if he obey mine ordinances."
THE Lord says he will give us a pattern to follow that will protect us from false spirits and doctrine, and we need it today as we have never needed it before in the history of this Church. Pointing out the value of these revelations, and what they mean to us, in this first revelation again I call attention to this one thing. Here is the word of the Lord in a commandment to every member of this Church:
"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.
"Search these commandments," that is the thread that runs through this preface to this Book of Commandments. I tell you there is nothing you ever attempted to study equal to this, and you will never find anything quite equal to it. You have only scratched at it, that is all you have done. Of course it is not my place to dictate to you and tell you what to do, but it is my place to warn the people and tell them that the Lord has commanded them to search these things.
I am reading this book all the time, scarcely a day passes that I do not read something and ponder over it and the other standards in doctrine. The Lord has given this book to us; it is our book, it contains the doctrines of the Church and the commandments and the covenants. Many of the covenants could not be written and put in a book, you get these in the Temple of the Lord, but I am reading these things because I want to know what the Lord has to say, and what He would have me do. It is a wonderful study, and there is not anything in all this world more pleasing, more delightful or that brings greater joy, not anything.
May the Lord bless you and guide you in this labor, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
CARE OF THE FEET By Dr. B. H. Blackham
WE, as Latter-day Saints believe in keeping our bodies as perfect as possible, so that they may be temples for the Spirit of God, as well as for our own spirits, and it is only natural that through perhaps misunderstanding, or not really knowing what we are doing, that we cripple this body of ours. The bodies of our children, will be my biggest plea today.
Ninety per cent of the children come into this world with perfect bodies. At the age of 21 it is found that sixty-five per cent of them have defective feet, and it is only through educating the people to this that we can prevent this great wrong to the generations that are coming.
At the age of one to three, the child is learning to walk. The over-eager parent begins pushing the child, and trying to teach it to walk. This is a very bad practice inasmuch as we must consider the bone formation has only started. At birth the child has only one-third of each individual bone formed, and the rest is a soft substance which is very pliable, and it is easy to shape these small bodies into the forms that we wish. If we want to deform them, it is very easy to do it. So we must watch through childhood days to see that there is no undue strain upon these small bodies. At the age of ten to twelve the biggest danger is past, the bones are rather hard, not fully completed, but enough to eliminate deforming very easily. If the child is left alone and given the proper opportunity it will gradually develop its bone and muscle and body structure to the degree where it can stand alone and walk. Some children walk sooner than others—let them gradually develop their bones and muscles to the degree that they can carry their weight, and do not try to push them.
The thing I wish to emphasize is the proper fitting of shoes and stockings. So many people say, "Stockings?—I have heard about shoes, but what do stockings have to do with it?" I have found that there are more bad feet, crippled and deformed bodies, caused through bad fitting stockings than through short shoes. The proper fit of the stocking should be half an inch longer than the foot when the person is sitting, then when the person stands it allows for the elongation of the foot. The shoes should be one quarter to half an inch longer. For children half an inch, because their feet grow so fast, that if you do not get them long enough they will soon grow out of them. The type of shoe with a thick sole is best, so that when the child stands, it stands naturally with the feet flat on the ground.
If a child seems to have flat feet at the age of from one to five years, do not be alarmed, because as a general rule 50% of the children have this appearance, but if this does develop at the age of six or seven, then it is time for the condition to be remedied.
When buying shoes parents often choose a shoe one quarter to half an inch longer than the foot, and have the child wear this shoe for best for six weeks to two months, until it appears to be short, then they will allow the child to wear these for every day in school. If you must have your children wear short shoes, be sure that these shoes are worn the days when they are not on their feet, e.g. Sundays, and make the little ones stay in the house and sit down. The longer shoes should be worn every day, for when a child is on its feet, playing, it needs to have plenty of length.