[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Anna Prince Redd]
Where Trails Run Out
Anna Prince Redd
CHAPTER 6
[The incidents of this story are true, and the characters authentic. The information has been carefully gleaned from diaries, journals, and personal interviews.—Ed.]
Synopsis: A company of twenty-four young men and two families—James L. Davis, his wife Mary, and their four children, Henry H. Harriman, his wife Elizabeth, and their five children—are called to explore a route from Cedar City, in Southern Utah, to San Juan County. The two families are to remain in San Juan and, at a point where the Montezuma Creek comes into the San Juan River, are to establish an outpost and prepare for the coming of the main company of settlers, members of the San Juan Mission. The twenty-four scouts are to return to their homes and report their findings. The purpose of the mission is to cultivate and maintain peaceful and friendly relations with the Indians, who are almost the sole occupants of the large isolated county.
While driving her team at night, across a gulley, menacing desert, Elizabeth has a frightening experience with a mysterious Indian. She feels that she will see the Indian again and that he will know if she needs help. The company travels over rough and dangerous country and after much suffering, finally reaches Moenkopi, an Indian outpost and a supply point for traders and pioneers. The Davis family remains at Moenkopi and the others go on toward the San Juan. The white man's "water magic," in the form of a move well digging, saves the lives of the company. Moving steadily onward, building their road as they go, the company halts while scouts explore for water, and a way out of a box canyon. The scouts, almost unconscious from thirst, get back to camp and report that there is no water. A strange, long-drawn-out warning, and misgiving.
THE long night hours wore on. Restless and feverish, the suffering company saw the sun come up, and prayed for respite.
Bad as the night had been, with its cold stars and its dry winds, it was preferable to the glare of the sun and the blistering sand that freighted the air. The guards came down from the lookout points and new ones took their places, to scan the horizon for a sight of the other water scouts, now long overdue.
What was the strange, long call they had heard from the ledge the night before? Was it human? No one could say. And all that the guards knew was that it seemed to come from a crevice in the rocks, near where they stood. Yet they had seen no one. There had been a quality to the call that made it seem to come from a long way off, yet everyone in camp was convinced that it came from someone—or something—near. The uncertainty of it increased the tension that gripped the company, and made fear thirst and inactivity harder to bear.
What had happened to the water scouts? Did the strange long call have anything to do with them? Do the minds of the leaders, it was unthinkable to move far in any direction without a report from the water scouts that water was to be found, for, without water, the company would surely die. The exertion of travel would exhaust what little reserve strength the teams and stock had, and gain nothing. There was no alternative but to wait for the scouts.
"Can you see the water scouts, Henry?" Elizabeth asked. "Surely, surely we have not come this far only to fail in our mission. This is a lonely place to die."
"I can see nothing but heat waves," Henry answered. "And I can hear nothing but the wailing of the squaws and their papooses."
"If the scouts had found water they would have come back to tell us," Elizabeth decided. "They'd have been back long ago."
"Look, Elizabeth!" Henry pointed to the sounds that were just going on duty. "They are signalling something to the camp! It's the water scouts!" he cried, and ran toward the two human figures that had staggered over a knoll, not far from the camp.
The guards began firing their guns—three salutes—the signal that the scouts are in.
A shout went up. "The scouts are in! The scouts are in!"
But the scouts had sunk to their knees. They were crawling, and falling by turns toward the camp.
"They have not found water!" Elizabeth sobbed, and she began to pray. Her arms went out to her children, holding them in a sadly frightened little group, against her skirts. "Oh, heaven help us!" she prayed. "What will become of us now!"
The men raced toward the knoll where the scouts had fallen. Strong arms lifted them and carried them to the camp. And she, the only woman, could not cry out. Yet she could not bear the agonizing conviction that the scouts had died.
"Darlings, be quiet," she hushed her children. "Wait with mother. When your father comes, then we will pray."
It was she, the woman, who sparingly bathed the faces and parched lips of the water scouts. She who put clean shirts on their bodies and shaded their eyes from the sun. It was she, the woman, who waited while the leaders of the company talked and pounded tones, weighing the report of the thirsty scouts.
"No water — none anywhere. Three days travel—you will not find any water," they had gasped.
"No water, no water. . ." The words were burned into their eyes, and they kept repeating it.
"We cannot live three days longer," Elizabeth said to herself again and again, as she worked over the scouts. "We cannot travel, and we are dying here." But to the scouts she kept repeating that President Smith and her brother would find a way to save the company and the mission. And as she repeated the words, they took on meaning for herself, as well as for the water scouts.
"There is no way, Lord," she prayed. "No way except it be a miracle. Let the Indians' prayers be heard, too, Lord, we are all thy children."
FOR days the Indians had sent up prayers to their rain-gods, had sung and danced for the rain to come. But often their praying and dancing had been interrupted by imprecations against the white men, whom they held responsible for their suffering. It was the white men who had made the rain-gods angry. It was the white man, the palefaces, who should be punished.
"This is a desperate situation, George," Silas murmured. "We have got to try digging for water again, though it may cost us our lives. The Indians are in no mood to see us fail."
