[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: A Place in the Country Jones]
A Place in the Country III-WATER Ruby Scranton Jones [This is the third in 4 series of five short-short stories. Ed] AS Ellen Martin washed the supper dishes, she looked out the window and saw her husband talking to Mr. Hawkins, their neighbor on the north.
When he came in, John said, "It's our turn to irrigate at eleven tonight. Mr.
Hawkins says he'll turn the water in when his time is up. He's been taking care of this place, you know."
"But John! Eleven! How can you see to do it at night?" Ellen objected.
"Oh, I'll take that old lantern I found in the garage." John sat down and rested his arms on the table. Ellen noticed how tired his eyes looked. She thought he was even thinner than when they came.
"You can't do it," she said positively. "You were too tired to eat your supper after working on that fence all day. Let it go."
"I can't do that," John answered, just as positively. "We get the water only two hours in about two weeks and you know how dry the orchard is. It's just one of those things that every farmer expects."
"Then I'll do it." Ellen hung the dish towel on the rope stretched over the stove. "You can tell me how."
"No!" John got up and started for the door. "I won't have my wife doing man's work. You do far too much as it is."
"Nonsense." Ellen caught John's arm and pulled him back to the chair. "Every farm woman expects to help out wherever she's needed. I'll get the lantern and fill it."
After the children were in bed, John wearily explained the little he knew about irrigation. "And do see that those peach trees back of the garage get plenty. I've an idea they'll bring in more than all the other trees put together. And we're sure going to need that fruit money."
When Ellen was lighting the lantern, he added, "You'd better take your sweater. There's a cool breeze at night."
So, wearing her oldest shoes and sweater and carrying the lantern and the hoe, Ellen started out. Immediately swarms of mosquitoes circled around her head and settled on every exposed bit of flesh. She could even feel them bite through her heavy cotton stockings. She pulled the sweater up around her neck and buttoned it, even though she was already too warm. She was glad John had not thought about mosquitoes or he would have made even more objections.
As she reached the far corner of their place where the water came in from the canal, she saw dark streaks down the first two ditches. In stepping over one of these she slipped and sank into mud over her ankles. 462
She set down the lantern, pulled her feet free, and started to direct the water with the hoe.
