[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: Essentials in Home Training Preview 497; Obedience Elder Joseph Jacobs]
A  home,  a  place  for  their  loved  ones  to  go, 
A  spot  to  worship  as  God  may  commend, 
That's  the  promise  which  lives  at  the  journey's  end. 
Their  courage  has  given  to  us  this  space, 
Where  cities  mingle  a  garden's  grace, 
And  though  covered  wagons  will  roll  no  more, 
Their  ghosts  still  crowd  at  the  cottage  door.

Sixty    Ljears  Jxgo 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponent,  July  1,  and  July  15,  1887 
'For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
TIMELY  REFLECTIONS:  Aslant  the  misty  morning  air,  through  glittering 
circlets  of  rainbow  hue,  comes  the  glorious  orb  of  day  peeping  o'er  yon  snow-capped 
mountain  peak,  casting  its  brilliant  sheen  o'er  the  teeming  valley  below,  where  myriads 
of  happy  songsters  are  pouring  forth  their  glad  welcome  in  a  grand  concert  of  tuneful 
melody.  .  .  .  My  spirit  gathers  renewed  strength  and  buoyancy,  and  from  my  inmost 
soul  springs  forth  an  anthem  of  thanksgiving  and  praise  for  my  birthplace,  Zion,  in  whose 
development  and  progress  my  greatest  desires  are  centered. — Sun  Flower. 
FROM  ONEIDA  STAKE,  IDAHO:  We  should  be  kind  to  each  other,  and 
especially  to  those  who  are  left  to  provide  for  their  families  without  the  aid  of  father  or 
husband.  .  .  .  We  should  be  very  wise  in  counseling  our  children,  for  they  are  our  hope 
and  our  all.  .  .  .  Mothers,  I  say  to  you  all,  read  good  books.  . .  .  You  should  guard  against 
all  things  which  are  injurious  to  your  health.  Do  not  neglect  your  duties  in  the  Relief 
Society  for  your  work;  if  you  wait  for  the  time  when  you  have  nothing  to  do,  you  will 
never  go,  for  a  mother's  work  is  never  done. — Counselor  Mary  Hawkes,  from  her  address 
at  stake  conference. 
LET  US  WORSHIP  GOD 
Let  us  worship  God  on  the  mountains, 
In  the  valley,  on  the  hill, 
Where  the  wild,  free  harps  of  nature 
With  the  grandest  music  thrill, 
Let  us  worship  him  with  singing, 
And  with  the  voice  of  prayer, 
And,  as  he  is  ever  present, 
Let  us  worship  everywhere. 
—Belle  Bush 
A  FEW  THOUGHTS:  How  like  the  olden  times  is  the  present.  Then  it  was  a 
band  of  Pilgrims  fleeing  from  arbitrary  rule.  .  .  .  How  like  to  the  little  band  of  saints 
who  left  their  homes  in  the  East,  driven  from  state  to  state  ....  and  when,  after  sur- 
mounting untold  difficulties,  braving  a  thousand  dangers,  and  suffering  the  pangs  of 
hunger  and  sickness,  they  found  a  home  in  these  mountains,  and  with  their  love  of  liber- 
ty unfurled  the  stars  and  stripes  to  the  breeze,  and  pledged  their  lives,  their  honor,  their 
all  to  defend  it.  What  a  noble  band!  ....  And  now  we  have  made  the  Valley  to  blossom 
as  the  rose,  and  the  barren  waste  a  fruitful  field.  .  .  .  We,  like  the  Pilgrim  Fathers,  put 
our  trust  in  the  Supreme  Ruler,  knowing  he  will  defend  our  rights  and  deal  out  justice 
and  equity  to  all.  We  know  that  God  lives  and  that  he  has  revealed  himself  to  man  in 
this  day,  and  we  know  we  have  seen  his  power  made  manifest,  and  make  bold  to  declare 
it  to  all  nations. — S.  A.  Fullmer. 
OUR  RULERS:  I  always  prefer  and  would  vote  for  those  rulers  who  obey  God 
and  keep  His  commandments.  I  feel  at  home  in  their  presence  because  I  know  what 
to  expect  from  them. — M.  E.  Kimball. 
Page  464

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
EPRESENTING  the  three  wom- 
en in  the  original  band  of  Utah 
pioneers,  Mrs.  Acel  Richardson 
(Nora  P.),  Mrs.  Richard  Kedding- 
ton  (Dorothy  Kimball),  and  Mrs. 
Byron  Waldram  (Norma  Wil- 
liams) will  accompany  their  hus- 
bands on  the  Sons  of  the  Utah  Pio- 
neers trek.  Charming  and  talented, 
all  three  are  of  Utah  pioneer  stock. 
The  143  men,  three  women,  and 
two  children,  simulating  the  first 
company,  will  leave  Nauvoo,  July  14, 
1947  in  seventy- two  cars  with  cov- 
ered wagon  tops  and  ply-board  oxen. 
Camping  in  the  open  at  historic  sites, 
they  will  enjoy  programs  of  drama- 
tizations, addresses,  and  singing,  and 
will  enter  the  Valley,  July  22,  as  did 
the  vanguard  pioneers  in  1847. 
PHOSEN  by  three  out-of-state 
judges,  from  among  all  the 
queens  representing  the  various 
counties  of  Utah,  Centennial  Queen 
Calleen  Robinson,  brunette  from 
American  Fork,  and  her  maids,  red- 
haired  Marie  Burnett  from  Salt  Lake 
City  and  blonde  Mary  Louise  Gard- 
ner from  Spanish  Fork,  will  ride  in 
the  magnificent  Centennial  float  on 
July  24th.  The  parade  will  climax 
months  of  strenuous  activities  for 
the  Utah  beauties. 
jy|RS.  LAWRENCE  GOLD,  born 
Ruth  Knowles  Emerton,  of 
Logan,  was  chosen  Daughters  of 
Utah  Pioneers  Queen  Mother,  by 
the  Salt  Lake  County  Daughters, 
and  will  ride  in  state  in  the  parade 
on  July  Twenty-fourth.  In  ten  years 
of  married  life,  Mrs.  Gold  has  borne 
seven  beautiful  children.  She  is  ef- 
ficient and  talented  and  loves  her 
work  as  mother  and  homemaker. 
nPHE  Golden  Rule  Foundation 
chose  as  American  Mother  of 
the  Year,  Mrs.  Frederick  G.  Murray 
of  Iowa,  seventy-two,  author,  lectur- 
er, and  mother  of  five  children.  Utah 
State  Committee  of  the  Foundation 
chose  Mrs.  Wilford  Woodruff  Rich- 
ards of  Logan,  born  Emily  Randall, 
as  Utah  State  Mother.  Left  a  wid- 
ow, she  reared  twelve  children.  All 
have  been  well  educated  and  some 
are  professional  musicians.  Mrs. 
Richards  has  been  active  in  M.I.A., 
Relief  Society,  and  Primary  Associa- 
tion work,  and  as  worker  in  the  Lo- 
gan Temple. 
rHILE      HELEN      KELLER, 
blind,  deaf,  and  formerly 
mute,  was  in  Europe  aiding  her  fel- 
low-sufferers, her  home  in  Westport, 
Connecticut,  was  destroyed  by  fire. 
Ruined  were  her  irreplaceable  library 
in  Braille,  the  furniture  designed  for 
her  special  needs,  and  the  garden 
planned  for  its  variety  of  fragrances, 
which  were  her  delight.  A  few  years 
ago,  when  visiting  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation on  Temple  Square,  Salt 
Lake  City,  she  displayed  great  inter- 
est in  the  pioneer  relics.  As  her  sen- 
sitive fingers  explored  an  oxen-yoke, 
she  remarked,  "It  is  very  heavy.  Now 
I  understand  why  Jesus  said, '.  .  .  my 
yoke  is  easy  and  my  burden  is  light'." 
Page  465 
W1

EDITORIAL 
VOL    34                                                         JULY  1947                                                             NO.  7 
[Pioneer  sbxample  of  \^)beatence 
^THROUGHOUT  the  Lord's  deal-  the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto 
ings  with  ancient  Israel  in  the  {t  <Isaiah  2:2)' 
centuries  that  followed  the  exodus  When  the    pioneers    arrived    at 
from  Egypt,  there  was  ever  kept  alive  their  destination,  it  did  not  appear 
in  the  memories  of  the  children   of  as  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  hon- 
Israel   the  loving  kindness   of  the  ey.    Had  the  prophet  leader  not  pre- 
Lord  to  them,  manifested  in  spar-  viously  been  shown   the  appointed 
ing  the  lives  of  their  first-born,  de-  place  in  vision,   there  would  have 
livering  them  from  bondage  to  the  been  nothing  to  indicate  to  mortal 
Egyptians,  and  bringing  them  to  a  eye  that  the  parched  land,  baking 
promised  land.    Those  events  were  under  the  hot  sun,  with  a  salt  sea 
memorialized  by  the  institution  of  shimmering  against  the  horizon,  was 
the  Feast  of  the  Passover,  observed  the  land  of  promise  for  the   weary 
by  Christ  during  his  earthly  ministry  wagon    train.     The    pioneers    had 
and  still  commemorated  by  ortho-  traveled  through  greener  lands  and 
dox  Jews.  they  knew  that  greener  lands  lay  be- 
In  these  latter  days,  as  in  former  yond,  but,  obedient  to  the  word  of 
times,  the  Lord  guards,  protects,  and  the    Lord,    their    leader    Brigham 
cherishes  his  chosen  people  in  so  far  Young  declared  that  the  forbidding 
as  their  obedience  to  his  command-  place  was  the  right  place.  That  Valley 
ments  allows.  of  alkali,  of  sagebrush,  without  vege- 
The  year  1947  is  being  observed  tation,  burning  under  the  rays  of  a 
by  Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  July  sun,  where  a  living  must  be 
world  in  remembrance  of  the  good-  wrested  by  toil  and  sweat,  where 
ness  of  the  Lord  to  his  people  when  long  hours  of  back-breaking  work 
he  led  them  to  their  promised  land  would  be  needed  to  eke  out  an  ex- 
one  hundred  years  ago.  istence,  was  declared  to  be  the  right 
By  the  year  1847  the  saints  had  place.     A  place  which  offered    no 
been   persecuted  and   driven    from  worldly  wealth  but  was  destined  to 
state  to  state  but,  like  the  children  provide  a  richness  in  eternal  values. 
of  Israel,  they  were  finally  permitted  Viewed  from  the  eminence  of  a 
to   leave   their  persecutors  behind  hundred  years,  it  is  easy  to  trace  out 
and  journey  to  their  promised  land  reasons  why  the  Lord  instructed  his 
—a  place  foreseen  by  Isaiah:  prophet  to  settle  his  chosen  people 
in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.  But 
And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in   the  last  •         1  •     .1  ^  i-  i  .n  ^r  QTr~„#.0  j.,„„e 
,        ,,   .   .,             .  .   v  r    .,      T     ,,  viewed  in  the  lights  ot  events  trans- 
days,  that   the  mountain  or    the    Lord  s  .  .        .                ,&       , 
house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  Pmng  m  that  <%>  tnere  were  some 
the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted  above  who  questioned   the    dicta    of    the 
466

PIONEER  EXAMPLE  OF  OBEDIENCE  467 
Lord's  prophet,  not  only  as  regarded  ceeding  years,  the  love,  honor,  and 
the  place  of  settlement,  but  likewise  respect  of  the  Lord's  chosen  people 
in  subsequent    decisions    and    pro-  will  be  poured  out  on  those  faithful 
nouncements  by  Church  leaders.  pioneers  who  laid  the  foundations  of 
Latter-day  Saints  living  today  con-  this  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of 
tinue  to  be  warned,  exhorted,  and  the  Rocky  Mountains.  Likewise, 
instructed  by  the  Lord's  prophets  as  one  hundred  years  from  now,  to  that 
to  their  daily  conduct  and  dealings,  number  so  honored  will  be  added, 
Some  members  of  the  Church  take  in  remembrance,  faithful,  obedient 
umbrage  at  advice  which  to  man's  Latter-day  Saints  living  today  who 
wisdom  may  seem  foolish  and  un-  do  not  place  man's  wisdom  above 
necessary.  Such  people  may  know  the  will  of  the  Lord  as  revealed 
that  their  influence  and  example  will  through  his  prophets.  When  that 
melt  away  and  vanish  in  the  coming  numbering  takes  place,  may  it  corn- 
years  as  snow  on  a  summer  moun-  prise  the  great  present  body  of  the 
tain  side.  Church! 
On  this  July  24,  1947  an<^  m  suc"  M.C.S. 
(general  [Hoard  Expresses  KjLpprectatton  to  LKeuef 
Society    1 1 lemoers  for    vi/ork  in   \_slothtrig   'Jjonation 
HPHE  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  extends  grateful  appreciation  to  the 
members  of  Relief  Society  throughout  the  stakes  of  Continental  United 
States  for  the  great  contribution  the  sisters  made  in  the  recent  donation  of 
clothing  and  needed  articles  for  the  European  saints. 
Relief  Society  visiting  teachers  are  highly  commended  for  delivering 
the  message  of  the  General  Board  to  Latter-day  Saint  families,  calling  at- 
tention to  the  donation,  and  Relief  Society  ward  and  stake  members  who 
received,  listed,  sorted,  and  helped  label  and  pack  the  articles  into  boxes, 
are  especially  thanked. 
The  General  Board  recognizes  and  appreciates  the  willingness  of  the 
sisters  of  Relief  Society  to  freely  donate  their  services  to  any .  and  every  call 
made  upon  them  by  the  Church.