[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneer Stories and Lyman]
Page 451
Pioneer Stories and Incidents PIONEER WOMEN President Amy Brown Lyman [This is the tenth in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947
Utah Centennial celebration —Ed.] ONE hundred years ago this month the pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley.
With the group of brave and courageous men who entered the Valley, there were nine brave and courageous women.
Three of these women had accompanied the original band of pioneers from Winter Quarters, leaving there April 16, 1847, and the other six women were members of the company of Mississippi saints who had wintered in Pueblo, Colorado, and joined the pioneer company on June 1, at Fort Laramie, and journeyed into the Valley with Brigham Young's company. The three women who journeyed from Winter Quarters were Harriet Page Wheeler Young, age forty-four years, wife of Lorenzo D. Young, who brought with her two children, both boys; Clara Decker Young, age nineteen, her daughter, wife of Brigham Young; and Ellen Sanders Kimball, age twenty-three, wife of Heber C. Kimball.
Ellen was a Norwegian, born at Thelemarken, Norway, and she and Hans Christian Hansen were the only Scandinavians in the company. The six women of the Mississippi Company were Elizabeth Crow, aged fifty-two years, and her five daughters: Martilla Jane Therlkell, who had a small son; Harriet Crow, Elizabeth J. Crow, and Isa Vinda, Page 452 and Ira Minda Crow, twins. The Mississippi Company was composed of a group of Latter-day Saints from Monroe County, Mississippi, who, at the request of President Brigham Young, had been organized to accompany the pioneers to Utah. It was expected at that time that the pioneer journey would be made in 1846, and this Southern group was directed to meet them on the plains. The call by the Government on June 26, 1846, for the Mormon Battalion to assist in the Mexican War changed the plans; but the Mississippi saints were already on their way, having left their homes on April 8.
When they were a few miles south of Fort Laramie, they met a company from California who told them there were no Mormon companies on the route ahead of them, so, on July 10, they decided to go south to Pueblo for the winter and wait there to hear something definite about the main body of the Church, and there they remained for one year. On July 29, just five days after President Brigham Young entered the Valley, the number of pioneer women was increased with the arrival of a group of saints from Pueblo, including a number of Mormon Battalion families and the remainder of the Mississippi Company.
