We would be young, when We grow old Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER?The little kindnesses of life bring more happiness than costly gifts. MABEL VERNON, of Delaware, directs a campaign to obtain signatures on a mandate to end war. The women of Amsterdam parade the streets as a gesture for world peace, and an American delegation at Geneva propose a fast day on Armistice day to promote peace; while in Spain, in the maddest of wars, women and children are being slaughtered. Has the world forgotten "We shall not sleep in Flander's fields?" MRS. ELIZABETH HAYWARD, of Utah, rejoiced over the issue of the Susan B. Anthony stamp. She introduced the resolution in the state senate to ratify the 19th Amendment. MRS. JANE WEST HERRICK, of Utah, died last September. She was founder of a school of Dramatic Art in Denver. QUEEN MARY, in the tradition of England's widowed queens has moved her personal treasures from Buckingham palace and taken up her residence in Marlborough house., PRINCESS JULIANA, of the Netherlands, and her sweetheart, Prince Bernhard Biesterfeld, will be married next spring. MESS SUSAN STURGIS, of Boston, president of the Association of Bank Women, says women are daily proving themselves most capable in financial matters. CLARA KATHRYN VAN HORN, age 12, of Ohio, was more frightened when the president of the United States gave her the medal of the army and navy Legion of Valor, than when she saved the lives of the two boys speeding towards an oncoming train. RUSE JANIS, movie star, has dedicated her fortune to charity, even auctioning her stage costumes. Her new career is living to make others happy. BABY DOE TABOR, who starved and froze to death in a mountain cabin last winter, left 17 trunks filled with costly dresses, cloaks, hats and lingerie, worth thousands of dollars, which now form an unrivalled costume collection in the Colorado State Historical Museum. MRS. BERYL MARKHAM, English socialite, was the first woman to make a solo flight westward across the Atlantic. The plane crashed in Nova Scotia, but the aviatrix was unhurt. BETTY BROWNING, of Kansas, won the Amelia Earhart trophy race, at the national air races in September, and Mrs. Louise Thaden won the $15,000 Bendix trophy race. AMELIA GALLI-CURCI is to return to opera this month with the Chicago Opera Company. SONJA HENIE and Katherine Stammers, two noted sports women, have both accepted contracts for moving pictures. PRINCESS ASFA GILMA, of Ethiopia, has written a biography of Haile Selassie.