GENERAL AND STAKE OFFICERS' MEETING Thursday, October 1, 1936
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
MY heart is filled with gratitude this morning to our Father in Heaven that He has permitted us to meet again today. As you know, Sister Amy Brown Lyman has gone to preside over the European Mission Relief Societies, and while we shall miss her, we rejoice that our sisters in Europe will have a member of the General Presidency there to help them with Relief Society. We regret to state that one of our beloved Stake Presidents has passed away since our April Conference? Sister Anna S. Blackham, of the Moroni Stake.
Visiting Teachers' Books: For years it has been the policy of the Relief Society General Board to require that all Visiting Teachers use the report books, and this has been quite an expense to the Wards as the price of the book has been twelve cents per copy. We know it is quite a task for the Wards to raise the necessary funds, so we have decided to present to them their Visiting Teachers' Books free of charge. This will be a gift from the General Board of about Five Thousand Dollars to the Ward Relief Societies throughout the Church.
Pictures for Literary Lessons: Yesterday in the Literary Meeting it was announced that we would have sets of pictures illustrating our literary lessons that would be given to the Stake and Mission Presidents or representatives. There will also be one set for the Stake Board and one for each Ward or Branch. This is another gift from the General Board, and it comes to you with our love.
Membership Cards for 1937: We also have our Membership Cards ready for 1937, and these will be supplied upon request.
Alcohol Education: We have for distribution a limited number of leaflets containing the address given by Judge Oscar W. McConkie, on Alcohol Education. There is a nationwide movement headed by the W. C. T. U., to place Alcohol Education in all of the schools. We are very deeply interested in this, which is not a political matter, but purely a Christian work. We shall be happy if you will give it your support whenever the opportunity presents itself.
Time of Relief Society Meetings: We have had a number of requests for our Relief Society meetings to begin in September and close in May, rather than begin in October and close in June. We have asked, and the majority of the Stakes still desire the nine lessons, and we should like to have these nine lessons used. It is a bit late now for you sisters who wish to begin in September to make this announcement, but in the future you may work to that plan, if you prefer it. We wish, however, that all the Wards in the same Stake begin and close at the same time.
Relief Society Funds: There have been a great many questions asked by the new officers about the difference in the Relief Society General Fund and the Charity Fund. We think that there are some of the organizations who are taking the contributions that are made by the people to the Visiting Teachers, and placing them all in the General Fund. We would rather you would not do this. People who give to the Visiting Teachers usually give for the benefit of the needy, and we would like that used for the Charity Fund. I think you will have an increase in donations if the people know that it is used for the poor. For years we have asked that the Visiting Teachers do not ask for funds, but we think Stake Presidents and Supervisors can work out some plan that will make an appeal to the people, illustrating the needs of the Relief Society. When a Visiting Teacher enters a home, aside from her message, she should include invitations to attend Relief Society meetings, and then it would be quite proper for her to say, "We are having a great many needs in our Ward, and we want to take care of those who require comforts."
We hear frequently of the most distressing cases of deserving people where the common necessities of life are lacking, but usually these can be met when the proper request to the people is made. Do not tell of conditions in your own Wards, but have some appeal that the people may know the need, for Relief Society does take care of the needs of the people.
In some of our Wards and Stakes there have been discrepancies in accounts. It is not because of dishonesty. We have had some very embarrassing situations where the women were perfectly honest, but I believe I will repeat again what I have said before. We suggest that you have your books audited. Your Stake Clerk should audit your Stake, and your Ward Clerk should audit your Ward record books yearly, and when your books are turned over to a new secretary they must be audited so that the new officers will know just the condition of affairs.
Duplication of Officers: There is a great deal of difficulty arising from the duplication of officers. I have lived in a small country town, and I know it takes real ingenuity to get the organizations officered without duplication, but I am wondering if we try hard enough to get inactive people to work. It takes faith, and prayer sometimes, for us to see the possibilities of some of the women who are not working. One of the best pieces of work you can do is to stimulate our sisters to participate in our activities.
Cooperation of Women's Organizations: We are never going to accomplish all we can until the three women's organizations of our Church are working closely together. The closer we work together the more efficient we will be.
Music Institutes: The Church Music Committee has organized a plan for developing music in all our organizations. Letters will go out to those Stakes where they are ready to begin. I think now they are only organized in the Salt Lake district, but as they are ready we will inform you, hoping you can cooperate.
Presidents Urged to Give Attention to Material Sent From Office: We would like you to please notice the communications from the office, rather than those from advertisers. It will save a lot of trouble and postage if you will realize that if there is anything for the benefit of the women, that goes out officially, we will let you know from the General Office. We will appreciate it very much if you will carefully read the instructions which come from the General Board, especially those in reference to the Stake conference-conventions.
Stake Conference - Conventions: We have had some of our conventions held, and have gone to quite a bit of expense and trouble to hold a class leaders' meeting all over the Church in response to requests from the Presidents, who feel the need for this help. We prepared what we consider a very fine program, and sent it out with a General Board member, and in some of the Stakes there were no class leaders to receive it.
Stake Visits to Wards: Some of our new Presidents have wondered how often the Stake Board should visit their Wards. There was one very fine Stake President who said, "We cannot get along very well without visiting our Wards once a month, but we understand the General Board does not approve of this." That is a mistake. We are very glad to have you visit your Wards once a month. This is not compulsory. Where the Wards are scattered hundreds of miles apart it is impossible to do so, but wherever it is possible once a month is not too often. We would advise you to alternate the visits to the Theology, Work and Business, Literature and Social Service Departments, so that you will know the conditions of your Wards in all subjects.
Relief Society Employment Bureau: We have a free employment bureau in the Relief Society, and are very glad to be of service in placing Latter-day Saint girls in good homes, but we would like to have them write in and tell us what their qualifications are before they come to Salt Lake.
Membership: There has been a misunderstanding about our Membership. Names of inactive members are not taken off the roll, they are still members of Relief Society and it is to the credit of the organization to get these inactive members on to the active roll.
Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions: There has been some misunderstanding in reference to the basis of the 100% Magazine subscriptions. We therefore refer you to the material contained in the August, 1936, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, which explains the details covering the 100% subscriptions. This is based on the entire membership of the Relief Society. We had a sister in the office from a very small branch in Wyoming which had been recently organized. I asked her how she was getting along, and she said, "Just splendidly. We have nine members and before I left we had sixteen subscriptions, but we are going to do better than that, we are going to have 200% before the close of the Drive." That is given just as a little stimulation to all of us to put forth our best efforts.
Standard of Entertainment: We want you to have good times, but have them in a way that establishes and upholds the standards of Relief Society. Some of the Wards have just beautiful programs, and some feel that they must do some things that are not quite up to our standard. We do not want our Relief Society women to blacken their faces for a minstrel, nor to make burlesques of any fine ideals.
Committee for Meeting Preparation: A helpful suggestion to Stakes and Wards is to appoint a committee to look after the Stake and Ward places of meeting?see that towels are in the washrooms, and other necessary conveniences are available. The General Board has found such a committee to be very helpful and to add greatly to the comfort of our gatherings.
ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
DURING the past year there have been several new organizations and a great number of reorganizations. To those who have served Relief Society so long and so well, President Robison and the General Board desire to extend their hearty thanks, and to those who are entering the field for the first time in the capacity of Stake President, we extend a cordial welcome.
ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President May, 1936 Long Beach Pearl C. Miner (Taken from Los Angeles) April, 1936 Pasadena Sadie E. Williams (Taken from Hollywood)
Missions Spanish-American Mrs. O. C. Williams (Taken from Mexican)
REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Sept., 1936 Bear Lake Hazel R. Shepherd Margaret S. Hoge Sept., 1936 Deseret Inez B. Allred Vera S. Hilton August, 1936 Emery Margaret M. Peterson Clara A. Wickman July, 1936 Highland Nellie O. Parker Jennie B. Duffin Sept., 1936 Panguitch Elizabeth W. Henderson Sarah C. Ipson August, 1936 Weber Katherine G. Wright Charlotte Kay
Mission Released Appointed President Czechoslovak Martha Gaeth Martha S. Toronto European Emily T. Merrill Amy Brown Lyman Hawaiian Verna F. Murphy Cassandra D. Bailey Norwegian Vivian C. Knudsen Margaret M. Peterson Samoan Agnes M. Sears Olivia S. Waddoups Tongan Martha E. Wolfgram Evelyn H. Dunn
GUEST SPEAKERS
IN the Officers' Meeting, the Relief Society was highly honored in having as guest speakers President Ruth May Fox, who discussed "How the Relief Society can Strengthen the Y. W. M. I. A." In addition to the deeply spiritual tone so characteristic of Sister Fox, her address was full of practical suggestions of how the organizations can work together in the great program assigned to each by the Church. Another inspirational address was "How the Relief Society can Strengthen the Primary Association," by Assistant Superintendent Edith H. Lambert, who made a most eloquent appeal for cooperation in the interest of children. Miss Myrtle Davidson, Superintendent of the Extension Division, Utah Agricultural College, offered the services of the college County Agents, and expressed appreciation for the work of Relief Society.
THE CHURCH SECURITY PROGRAM President Louise Y. Robison
I AM sorry there has not been a clear understanding on the matter of credit given in Relief Society, but the policy has been, to place no cash value upon used clothing which is donated nor upon bottles of fruit. Make a count of the number of articles and the amount of fruit and enter it as items of history. This has had the approval of the General Authorities, and it has come from Bishop Cannon just this morning. Let me read this. The question we asked, and the answer has been given:
"We have been informed that placing a cash value on all contributions is advocated. The Relief Society has always discouraged this practice. We have instructed our organizations to make a count of the articles of clothing contributed, to count the bottles of fruit and vegetables, but not to place cash value as there is so great a discrepancy in what the Wards throughout the Church consider the value of articles. It has long been recognized that Relief Society funds are to be kept for use within the organization. Instructions to this effect are printed in the Ward and Stake Record Books. We took it up with the General Authorities recently and they have reiterated the statement that the Relief Society funds belong to the Relief Society. We have been extremely sorry to hear that in some places the General Fund and even the Charity Fund has been used this Summer for making quilts, canning fruit, etc. Now sisters, we are all Latter-day Saints, and we are deeply interested in this Church Security Program, and we agree to do everything that is in our power, but it is not helping the Church to take our little means and divert them into another channel. The idea of this Church work is to raise extra funds to take care of the extra needs, it was not to come out of Relief Society. If some of you have your funds depleted, I deeply regret it, but please read your instructions, and remember your Charity Fund cannot be touched, except for charity. Some organizations have turned everything they have into the Social Security supplies, but the Relief Society Stake President is in the Stake Committee, and the Ward President is on the Ward Committee. As such they are members of the governing board, and have a voice as to how that work shall be conducted. Where you have been in the habit of holding bazaars, you may still continue to do so, and keep the funds for your treasury that you receive from these. Advise your Ward Presidents and remember you yourself, will have to go to your committees and ask permission to retain for bazaars what you would normally have had for your Summer's work.
Please do not feel that we are not absolutely back of the Church Security Plan. We are so proud of what you have done that we are going to ask each Stake President, or her representative, to meet at the close of the four o'clock meeting when buses will be at the West Gate to take you to see a sample of what has been done in one Stake, and this, too, without using Relief Society funds. What funds have been used have been created through the Church Security. This demonstration is an example of what cooperation between the three women's organizations can do. Then if we have time we would like to take you to one of the other Stakes, which is perhaps very much like your own. This is a Stake where there has been little money, but where they have made over, cleaned and pressed men's clothing, 571 pieces; boy's clothing, 469 pieces; women's clothing, 881 pieces; girls' clothing, 887 pieces; making a total of 3,139 articles, including 103 quilts, and this has been made, as it has been in many of your Stakes, through the efforts of Relief Society. This work is typical of what has been done all over the Church.
It was our understanding that those who required relief were to be given the opportunity to work in the sewing and canning projects. The report is in practically all localities that our Relief Society women, especially the officers, are being overworked. This is creating a most unfortunate situation, as the women are for the most part the mothers in the homes, and they find it difficult to discharge these additional duties. It is reacting very unfavorably upon their Relief Society work. What do you advise in this matter? We have had more resignations of Ward Presidents this Fall than we have had at any other time. Of course in starting anything new it is necessary to get back of it and not think of ourselves, but now we hope that our Relief Society officers will not have to do the work. We hope that the work can be supervised, and women who are in need of help will be given pay for that work and relieve our splendid Ward Presidents. Relief Society will do the work it has been doing for years. It will be your responsibility to see that the sick sisters have little delicacies, that they have warm quilts, and it seems to me, if the brethren will permit it, it will be a good thing to keep in your treasuries and storerooms just about what you have kept for the last several years. There is no real change in our work, we will just take care of our own in the same way we have done, and as Latter-day Saints contribute to the Security Fund.
I think you have given nobly, wonderfully to the cause, and I think now we will still carry on, for we are every one of us Latter-day Saints. May the Lord bless you, bless you in your homes, bless you in your Relief Society, give you power and wisdom. O, do keep close to the Lord, you sisters. We do need Him now above all times. Keep close to the Lord and He will give you influence with the people with whom you work. Keep in harmony with your Bishops, and tell them your needs. Let them know what you Stake Presidents advise your Ward Presidents to do. Let the Bishops know what our plans and needs are, they are interested in us, but they sometimes do not understand our wants. You Stake Presidents make your needs known and explain the Relief Society situation, for we are eager and willing to help the Church Security. We have all our lives upheld our hands to sustain the Authorities of the Church, and I believe this is one of the revelations from God. I believe He has spoken through the leaders of our Church, and they have established the Church Security program. It is the thing we need for every member of the Church, whether we have an abundance or whether we are in poverty, it is the best thing that has come, and I believe the saving principle of our Church. I think if we enter into this wholeheartedly and never count the work or time we give, but give our best to the Lord, that is the very least that we can do. If we can do this we will have peace and harmony, and will be really sustaining the Authorities of the Church. I have heard President Grant say, "We sing 'We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet,'" but I believe now the women of the Church are showing President Heber J. Grant that we do sustain him as a Prophet, and we are willing and eager to help. May we feel this and carry the message back to the women, for the only thing that will save us is strict obedience to the Prophet of the Lord. May we feel this and carry the message back to our Wards, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.