HOW to conduct a successful department at Union Meeting is of importance to every Stake Social Service class leader. Success should be measured in terms of "helpfulness to the Ward class leaders." How to be most helpful must be largely determined by the Stake Leader herself as she best knows the needs, interests, abilities, etc., of the ward membership of her Stake as well as those of the Ward class leaders with whom she is working. We are all agreed, however, that the Union Meeting should be essentially a preparation or study period. It should do more than merely present the material contained in the magazine. It should first give the class members a vision of the course in its entirety and convert them to the value of such a course in the educational program. Then the relationship of the lesson in hand to the course as a whole must be decided upon. The Union Meeting may guide to more purposeful teaching by determining clearly defined immediate objectives. Recognizing the fact that the magazine material is the groundwork for our lesson and must be given the most respectful consideration, still we also recognize that "the effective teacher must have accessible more material than can be found in the magazine." The Stake Leader may guide the class toward additional authoritative and available references. Where a Stake Leader has access to a reference not available to her class it is often advisable to copy and distribute quotations from that reference. We all appreciate the importance of securing and maintaining attention in the learning process. We know this is best accomplished through interest. Consideration may be given to this very important phase of teaching. Good points of contact, visual aids, illustrative stories, striking quotations, etc., may be presented. It is sometimes necessary to assist in organization of lesson material. This may be accomplished in various ways, the most common method probably being the placing of outlines in the hands of the class. This is not always necessary or desirable, neither is it to be expected that when outlines are given the Ward Leaders will follow them tenaciously. However, they often prove helpful in the selection and logical arrangement of subject matter. The preparation of the Stake Leader should be extensive and intensive enough to enable her to anticipate turns the lesson might take or problems which might arise in presenting it, that would tend to defeat the purpose of the lesson. She should be qualified to fortify the class to adequately cope with these. Guidance may also be given in how best to present the lesson in the ward; to secure class participation; to properly make assignments, etc.
The success of the Union Meeting is not entirely dependent upon the Stake Leader. The Ward Leader has a definite responsibility. She should come to Union Meeting thoroughly familiar with the lesson as contained in the magazine. She should be willing and prepared to make helpful contributions. The Stake Leader should provide opportunity for these contributions. All lessons do not lend themselves to the same type of Union Meeting preparation, neither do all Ward class leaders require the same kind of help. A great responsibility rests with the Stake Leader, not only in having an extensive knowledge of the subject matter with which she is working and the underlying principles of good teaching, but also in knowing the women who constitute her class. Their attitudes, interests, needs, and abilities must guide her in the conduct of her department.
"It is through the successful conduct of the Union Meeting Department that the Stake Board worker justifies her elevation from a position of usefulness in the Ward to one of broader influence in the Stake."
LITERARY DEPARTMENT Marcia K. Howells, Chairman
BIOGRAPHY Mary C. Kimball
OUR literary course for this year will be the study of three great biographies?Alice Freeman Palmer, Julia Ward Howe and Abraham Lincoln. Because people are so interesting, biography has a great hold upon readers. Biographical interest is as ancient as history. The old men of a tribe delighted in orally rehearsing the deeds of their ancestors, also of their living heroes, and these stories were handed down from generation to generation. Biography fundamentally is to perpetuate the memory of a life. The truths of one's life are not simple things. Life is made up of days, months and years and during each the personality alters. The biographer must catch the subtle changes that go on and reveal them to the readers.
While the art of biography goes back nearly 2,000 years, it is generally regarded as being merely in its infancy. For long periods of time, no worthy biography was produced, and there are only a few life stories today that all critics rank as great. Plutarch's Lives will ever form absorbing reading for those who would make biographical study. For hundreds of years after this great Greek writer, no biographer stands out. Benvenuto Cellini holds a prominent place in biographical study, and many critics have rated his work as one of the greatest autobiographies in the world. Pepys' Diary also holds a high place. His description of the Great Fire and the Great Plague, of first nights, of players on the stage, of the nobility in the boxes, the bits of gossip that came to his ears, will ever be intriguing. Boswell's Life of Johnson is of the highest rank. Although Boswell was but 23 years old and Johnson 54 when they first met, they became the closest of friends and this biographer understood his hero thoroughly. He loved and admired him, cherished his virtues and was not blind to his faults. Painstaking in his effort for accuracy, he would often run half over London to fix a date correctly. Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography, published in 1791, is rated as America's greatest contribution in this line.
The modern biographer goes at his task scientifically. He rids himself of all pre-conceived notions, searches in every possible field for information, then portrays his subject as he sees him. The old biography tended to be photographic, portraying the subject as he looked. Modern biography attempts to paint him as he is. The old deification that may be noticed in the biographies of the saints and of many other characters is lacking in this new biography.
Maurois well says that the characteristics of modern biography are: first, "the courageous search for truth," second, "the insistence on the complexity of personality," and third, "the modern reader longs to find in his reading, brothers who share his troubles." The modern writer believes in the evolution of the individual spirit as firmly as he believes in the evolution of the race.
By many critics Gamaliel Bradford is rated among the first of American biographers. He had a marvelous gift in making generalizations; for instance, in his sketch of Woodrow Wilson, after making abundant quotations from the President's own statements, he says, "He knew, he knew, he always knew, for he was a creature of brains." Of Theodore Roosevelt he said, "He killed mosquitoes as if they were lions and lions as if they were mosquitoes."
Lytton Strachey, another modern, delights in his search for the truth of personality. The reading of good biographies is most beneficial. It leaves one a better person. Biography is today competing with fiction as a best seller. Historians delight in it to aid in their field. Readers hail a new book in this line. Many, many today realize that "the proper study of mankind is man."
Suggestions
1. See that the class reads the material in the Magazine and as far as possible the textbook.
2. Make the three lessons on one character a unit. Tie them together by summaries or questions.
3. Get each class member to have a notebook in which she will jot down: "What I enjoyed most in the life of..............." and "Valuable lessons in the life of..........."
4. Every teacher should bring out the development of the character studied. The class should be able to trace how wonderfully radiant was the spirit of Alice Freeman Palmer, how Julia Ward Howe, the aristocrat, became interested in the every-day concerns of ordinary men and women, how exquisitely beautiful and transforming is the life of Abraham Lincoln. Notes could profitably be made where the character shows courage and achievement.
5. Be sure to read some of the finest lines and have as many as will memorize some of them.
6. Make it a point to collect material and file it where it may be readily used. Each ward will be presented with a set of pictures to be used in the lessons on Alice Freeman Palmer and Julia Ward Howe. We know that pictures of Lincoln can easily be secured from papers and magazines. Make a study of these pictures and let them enrich your knowledge of the lives of these people.
ALICE FREEMAN PALMER Alice L. Reynolds
IT was to the work of educating women for the life dawning for them that Alice Freeman Palmer devoted her life. When she was a girl she attended Windsor Academy, and after being graduated from that institution she looked about for a university in which a woman could train. She told her father that she wanted to go to college and he hesitated before he gave his consent because he had only one son and three daughters and he felt if anyone went to college it should be the son. However, Alice promised that if he would send her she would assist in the education of the other children. This promise she kept.
In casting about for a college she selected the University of Michigan as it was the first State university to open its doors to women. She was not prepared to enter, but President James B. Angell took her case under advisement, and after chatting with her a while vouched for her ability. She made good and in 1877 was teaching history in the Saginaw High School. Two years later at the age of 24, she was teaching history at Wellesley, and at 26 she was made President of the institution. In the same year, 1882, she received her Ph. D. from the University of Michigan.
No sooner had she become the administrator of Wellesley than she began to reorganize its courses and make of it a standard college. She provided both feeders and dormitories for the institution to insure its growth. Her discipline was a matter of comment, but she controlled more by her fine personality and love than in any other way. At her invitation Professor George Herbert Palmer of Harvard came to Wellesley to deliver a course of lectures. Soon after he met Miss Freeman socially and later they became engaged. He gave her her ring on her birthday, which put her tact to the test as they dared not let their engagement be known. At Commencement, she told the board of trustees of her engagement and asked to be released. This caused nothing short of a social upheaval. The people interested in Wellesley asserted that no man had a right to marry a woman with her talent for managing and inspiring young women. Her devotion to Wellesley made her feel the criticism keenly. Mr. Palmer insisted that her marriage would give her an opportunity for more work, not less, in her chosen field. In the end a compromise was effected, and they were married at Christmas time. She was at once made Trustee of Wellesley, and also devoted much time to Radcliffe College, and was placed on the Massachusetts Board of Education, a position which she retained until her death.
When the University of Chicago was ready to begin work, it looked about for a suitable woman to be Dean of Women. No one appealed to President Harper except Alice Freeman Palmer. In order to get her, he offered her husband a place on the faculty of the University of Chicago, at a salary of $6,000 a year, and offered Mrs. Palmer the same salary. Mr. Palmer was receiving $4,000 at Harvard. This offer would mean an increase of $8,000 per year to the family budget, but it was rejected. Yet so eager was President Harper to have Mrs. Palmer's services that he arranged to have her come three weeks at the beginning of each term; her assistants carried on in her absence. Finally she went to Europe to enjoy one of those years with her husband that were so satisfying to both of them. While there she died. On her husband's return memorial services were held at Harvard University. Four college presidents paid tribute to this extraordinary woman. Among them were her own President Angell of Michigan, President Eliot of Harvard, and President Hazard of Wellesley. Music was furnished by a group of young women from Wellesley, and a young men's glee club from Harvard.
It was not the important positions Mrs. Palmer held, not the ability with which she was endowed, that marked her for the great woman she was. It was her deep spirituality. She was deeply religious, and nothing revealed this spirituality as did the effect she had on others. Her husband tells us that when she was in a room all eyes were upon her. An eminent scholar wrote: "When I last saw Mrs. Palmer, I was in a hopeless state, caring little for writing. It is a deep regret that her death prevents my putting into her hands the most elaborate and influential book I have ever written and saying as I do it, 'this have I done because you helped me by casual words of encouragement.'" A farmer's wife said of her, "To meet her at the Boxford's station in the morning made the whole day bright. If she passed me in the late afternoon on the long hill, she seemed the fairest object in all that stretch of sweet country."
The quality that lighted up all the qualities of her being appeared to be sympathy, and sympathy has been called the finest of all the qualities that combine in any effective personality. On November 10, 1920, she was elected to the Hall of Fame. One must have been dead ten years to receive election to this Hall, but her personality, always so penetrating and pervading, brought to her this distinction.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN Julia A. F. Lund
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, the "figure of an age," is the life which has been, and is the favorite illustration of those who seek to emphasize the possibilities of American citizenship. A life that cannot be classified ?farm boy, backwoodsman, storekeeper, surveyor, lawyer, orator, man of letters, statesman, all these, yes, but something far above and beyond any or all of them. Shall we say the heart of America in its tenderest, sweetest, loftiest expression?
Born in the frontiers of Kentucky, his boyhood spent in Indiana, his maturity reached in Illinois, he was a Southerner by birth and training, a Northerner by sentiment and principle, a Westerner by sympathy and vision. In the very unusual and delightful biography which it is our pleasure and profit to study this year, we trace the forebears of Abraham Lincoln through the colonial years, and the subject of the book, from his birth until he leaves for the White House. "The Prairie Years," as they are most appropriately called, cover all but the last four years of his life, and during these prairie years the man was trained, and the character formed, which types for us one of the best and noblest Americans. The magnificent materials used with such unequalled force were gathered during his prairie years. The books at his command were few but the very best in the world, and he mastered them so thoroughly that they became a part of his very being. Biblical quotations abound in almost everything he wrote. Shakespeare and the Bible were the literary treasures of his frugal home. He was also very fond of Robert Burns. A volume of Pilgrim's Progress, the most beautiful allegory in our language, was among his most prized possessions. He was influenced by the lofty principles as well as the smooth, fine diction of these matchless authors, and his own statements roll forth with the majesty of scriptural utterance. George Washington was the idol of Lincoln's patriotic fervor all through his life, and the example he always sought to follow. Like all great writers, Lincoln saw the glory in the commonplace, and was direct, simple and sincere in his expression. If "brevity be the soul of wit," no man ever lived who exemplified this more perfectly or said more in fewer words. He had a poet's power of expression in his spirituality and the fine shades of meaning in words. The matchless pearls he has left us in his letters and speeches clearly express his love of humanity and his philosophy of life. If we had to select his predominant qualities, we would undoubtedly name justice and mercy. Never did the glory of Lincoln shine brighter than it does in our strife-torn world of today. In answer to the "songs of hate" from all parts of the earth, his words fall like a benediction.
BIRTH OF A SONG Ida Peterson Beal
IN the early days of the Civil War Julia Ward Howe tells of returning from a review of troops near Washington. Her carriage was surrounded and delayed by the marching regiments. She and her companions sang to beguile the tedium of the way, the war songs which everyone was singing in those days, among them?
"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the grave, His soul is marching on."
The soldiers liked this song, "Good for you," they cried, and sang the chorus with its rhythmic swing. "Mrs. Howe," said Mr. Clarke, "why do you not write some good words for that stirring tune?" "I have often wished to do so!" she replied.
Waking in the gray of the next morning, as she lay waiting for the dawn, the words came to her.
'Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord."
"She lay perfectly still. Line by line, stanza by stanza the words came sweeping on with the rhythm of marching feet, pauseless, resistless. She saw the long lines swinging into place before her eyes, heard the voice of the nation speaking through her lips. She waited till the voice was silent, till the last line was ended, then sprang from the bed, and groping for pen and paper, scrawled in the gray twilight the "Battle Hymn of the Republic." When she had finished she crept back to bed and as she fell asleep she said to herself, "I like this better than most things I have written."
The poem was published in the Atlantic Monthly in February, 1862. "It was praised on its appearance, but the vicissitudes of the war so engrossed public attention that small heed was taken of literary matters." It found its way to the camps and was sung in chorus by the soldiers. The hymn rapidly made its way. "It was sung, chanted, recited and used in exhortation and prayer on the eve of the battle. It was the word of the hour and the Union armies marched to its swing."
"Among the singers of the 'Battle Hymn' was Chaplain McCabe, the fighting chaplain of the 122nd Ohio Volunteer Infantry. He read the poem in the Atlantic, and was so struck with it that he committed it to memory before rising from his chair. He took it with him to the front and in due time to Libby Prison whither he was sent after being captured at Winchester. Here in the great bare room where hundreds of Northern soldiers were herded together, came one night a rumor of disaster to the Union armies. A great battle, their jailers told them, had been fought a great Confederate victory won. Sadly the Northern men gathered together in groups, sitting or lying on the floor, talking in low tones, wondering how, where, why. Suddenly, one of the negroes who brought food for the prisoners, stopped in passing and whispered to one of the sorrowful groups. The news was false, there had, indeed, been a great battle, but the Union army had won, the Confederates were defeated and scattered. Like a flame the word flashed through the prison. Men leaped to their feet, shouted, embraced one another in a frenzy of joy and triumph, and Chaplain McCabe standing in the middle of the room, lifted up his great voice and sang aloud,
'Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord.'
"Every voice took up the chorus, and Libby Prison rang with the shout of 'Glory, glory, Hallelujah!'"
So this great song was given to us in an hour of inspiration. It has established for itself a fitting place in our group of patriotic songs. Our appreciation of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," has grown with the years. We gratefully remember Mrs. Howe for her marvelous contribution.