President Heber J. Grant By Dr. John H. Taylor of the First Seven Presidents of Seventy
WHENEVER we hear or read of President Grant, we usually find mentioned his splendid quality of determination. When the boys made fun of his baseball playing, calling him "sissy," this made him determine to some day play on the champion team of the territory. To do this, he threw a ball at a mark on the side of a barn so many times that it was necessary for his mother to bind up his arm in order to alleviate the pain, but he kept throwing the ball and in the end became so expert that he accomplished his purpose and became a member of the championship team. When some of his school companions saw his writing and made fun of it, he resolved to some day become a teacher of penmanship at the University of Utah. By constant practice he finally succeeded in doing what he had determined to do. He decided to learn to sing notwithstanding every natural obstacle was against him. By going over and over the songs hundreds and thousands of times, he finally was able to do what he wanted to do. Perhaps that spirit of determination is the reason for his success in life. He was willing to work for the things he wanted and to give the time necessary to accomplish his purpose. This characteristic of determination he got from his mother in a large degree. The story is told that when the bishop came to visit President Grant's mother he noticed pans on the floor to catch the water as it came through the roof. The bishop kindly offered to have the roof repaired as a contribution from the ward but the mother said, "Never mind, bishop, I will be able to take care of that myself and some day when my boy grows up he will build me a new house." Before President Grant was twenty-one years old he had built her a very substantial new home.*
THESE stories, of course, are very wonderful and stimulating to both old and young, but as interesting as this quality is, may I bring to you another side of the character of this wonderful prophet of ours; a side of his life that is not so well known but perhaps is the more beautiful of the two, although one could hardly have existed without the other. We read in the Scriptures that "it is more blessed to give than to receive" and I am quite certain that President Grant has carried with him the spirit of this message and made use of it all the days of his life. Even as a boy he was always desirous of doing something for someone else. He never sought praise for the things that he did but was satisfied and fully compensated by the happiness and joy he *See picture of this house on our cover.
brought into people's lives because of his helpfulness. When President Grant one Christmas heard that a former stenographer was greatly in need of money and that the family home was in jeopardy of being sold because of a mortgage, he wrote to all of his children and told them that while he usually sent them a check for Christmas (and it was always very generous) this year he thought that they could go without it, and he would use the money in helping to save the home of his former secretary; he also invited his children to contribute and help things out, which they did. His generous nature is not confined to the individual but often takes in groups of individuals, companies and industries. He not only does splendid things himself but he seems to exert an influence on other people so that they also want to be generous and helpful. If some institution was in financial trouble and he had friends connected with it, he was the first to head the subscription list with a generous amount in order that the institution might be saved and the stockholders' investments protected. In this line you all know of his love for home industries and how he has been one of the chief exponents of helping to establish them and has given generously of his time and money to accomplish this purpose. When the Contributor, an organ of the M. I. A., was discontinued, President Grant decided that the organization needed a magazine. He, therefore, went out and got subscriptions, donated a large amount himself and helped establish again an M. I. A. Magazine. Not only was he satisfied that the people at home should have the benefit of it but he also thought that the missionaries should have free copies and through his efforts, the missionaries in the field have since that time been supplied with the magazine. One time one of his daughters was telling him about a poor widow who was having rather a hard time. President Grant asked her name. His daughter gave it to him and he said, "I'll send her some money." She said, "But you don't even know her." President Grant said, "That is not necessary, she needs help and I am glad to do it." He has always been that way. Widows, orphans and men who have needed help have been the recipients of his many kindly acts. It was not a question of whether he knew them or not or whether they had been entirely faithful or not, he just loved to do something for them whenever it was possible for him to do so.
HIS generosity extends from the men of high standing to the most humble in the world. He has always been blessed with the ability to accumulate money, but he always wants to share it with other people. If he had wanted to keep it all for himself and his own family, he would be a very rich man but that is no pleasure to him. Money to him is only to be made to use and to help Zion grow and increase and her people to find happiness and comfort. No one will ever know the number of students, artists, and singers who have been befriended and encouraged by a sympathetic interest, as well as by financial assistance. If there ever has been a more generous man in the Church or in the world, in proportion to the money that he had, I do not know his name. Perhaps when his life's work is finished, it will be said about him that he was like Abou Ben Adam, whom he so often quotes, "He loved his fellowmen."