Why Build Monuments? By Mary Grant Judd
ON Sunday morning, September twentieth of this year, a glorious monument was unveiled in an old Mormon cemetery in Nebraska. To our people this spot will ever be "Winter Quarters," though now the small community is known as the town of Florence. This impressive monument is the second piece of sculpture unveiled by the Church in the last year and a half, the statue to the Angel Moroni at the Hill Cumorah being the first. Just what is the mission of these monuments? What can they, so far away from Utah, do for our Church and people? I would answer that each of these splendid works of art declares a particular message to this and future ages, and that, standing as each one does, on a significant spot historically, the full force of that message comes to the beholder with added meaning. This is true not only to our own people, but to those hundreds of other visitors, some of whom come out of curiosity, others in real sympathy and understanding of our feeling towards these sacred spots.
At the last October Conference, Elder Rufus K. Hardy, speaking of his pilgrimage to Winter Quarters, said: "Even in the last two weeks has come to me a testimony of the Gospel which in no other way could come. There, upon that sacred hill, made sacred by the bodies of hundreds who laid down their lives when it was virtually a wilderness, there came from their ashes and their dust a spirit which breathed into the lives of the men and women who attended the exercises, a something which bore to them the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. Surely, I said to myself, this is virtually a whispering spirit from the dead."
Not so long ago the burial ground of the Mormon pioneers at Winter Quarters was a spot where tangled brush and weeds hid from view the few mounds that had not been obliterated with time, an occasional rough stone, but this was all that was left to tell of the more than six hundred refugees who had perished in this "city built over night." Owing, as many of us do, our western heritage to those dauntless pioneers, and deeply touched though we may be by the tragic story of Winter Quarters, how many of our own people, having an hour or more to stop over in Omaha, en route to the East, have taken the trouble to call a taxi and visit this memorable spot? Very few, I dare say, and yet the ride, going pleasantly through a shady park for part of the way, takes only twenty-five minutes each way, and makes a welcome break in the day's travel. And if this soul-stirring spot had not attracted our own people, it had scarcely existed for those outside the Church. Now, through the monument, all that is changed. A guide about Omaha made this statement, "We used to show tourists our city, now we take them out to see the monument."
Overlooking the green hills of the surrounding country, the cemetery stands on a slight eminence. This naturally impressive setting has been enhanced by beautiful landscaping, lawns and evergreens having replaced coarse grass, rank weeds and brush. Many of the trees have been left intact, notably two old sentinels planted by the pioneers, which, we learned at the ceremonies, have been lovingly tended and fenced by the gardener in charge of the place.
Come with me in imagination on that pilgrimage. As you approach the cemetery and pass the small city park you know that you are nearing your destination, for the home occupied by President Brigham Young is pointed out as well as a huge tree, still flourishing, which was planted by that great leader. Alighting from the car you enter the cemetery along a path flanked on either side by stone pillars, on each of which is a bronze plaque impressively carved with the figure of an angel. You pause to read the inscription on the first pillar: "In loving memory of the six thousand devoted pioneers who died on the plains between 1846-1869, The bodies of six hundred of those brave souls were buried in this locality." And then you turn to the pillar on the right, and your spirit is attuned to the uplifting experience in wait for you by these words: "I am the resurrection and the life." "For they shall rest from all their labors here and shall continue their works."?Doc. And Cov. 124:86.
Wending your way up the winding path, you soon glimpse ahead a mass of bronze, which is the monument. And then, with a catch in your throat, you stand before it and feel the full pathos of the sculpture, and of this place which, more and more, will be immortalized by this really great work of art. This, as I understand it, is the mission of the sculptor?to translate into imperishable materials, through purposeful characterization, his own feeling towards some event, that farther and farther though future generations may be from the initial circumstances, they will yet grasp its true purport. In his statue "Winter Quarters," Avard Fairbanks has done this magnificently. It is peculiarly appropriate that this exceptionally talented Latter-day Saint artist should receive the commission to execute the statue, for here, at Winter Quarters, lie buried his great grandfather and grandmother on his mother's side. At the exercises was Avard with his father, who is overjoyed at the success of his son, for which the father is in no small part responsible. An artist of merit himself, John B. Fairbanks recognized, when his son was a mere lad, that the boy had unusual talent. When Avard was thirteen, the father was in New York doing copying at the Metropolitan Museum. He had the boy come to him there although he could not afford to give him the money for lessons. Together they would go to the Metropolitan Museum, the son getting his training from copying as he saw the father doing. Here one day a reporter from the New York Herald discovered the lad, and was so intrigued that a picture of the boy, with his story, was soon decorating the front page of his paper. Avard soon showed that his particular forte was modeling. Still unable to afford lessons he went to the zoo at the Bronx Park in New York City and there modeled the animals from life. These studies were of such worth that through them he won a scholarship in the Art Students League in New York. His father, recognizing the genius of his son, borrowed money to take him to Paris, but after a year's study the World War drove them home. At this time Avard applied to his own State University for a position as teacher, but was refused. However, the University of Oregon accepted him. After years of hard effort and struggle against heavy odds his ability was recognized by the Guggenheim Foundation, and by them he was sent for a year's study in Florence. Since then success has come to him. This comparatively young artist, and father of seven sons, holds four college degrees, one of them being that of Doctor of philosophy, which makes him so far as his family knows, the possessor of the highest degree held by any living artist. He is at present on the faculty of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
"The Tragedy of Winter Quarters," which is one of Avard Fairbanks' outstanding pieces, represents a pioneer father and mother who have just laid away a loved child in a prairie grave. The father's arm is placed protectingly around his wife, but his hand still holds a shovel, mute evidence that his heart-rending task is not yet completed. The wife accepts his protection as she leans towards him, her face almost covered with a loose shawl which one hand grasps while the other is held to her mouth as if to stifle a sob. With fine feeling for restraint the sculptor does not show the open grave distinctly. If you stand at the proper distance to appreciate the monument you would not even know it was there. But when you approach the piece to read the dozen or so inscriptions which have been placed in the wide circular walk surrounding the statuary you discover that directly below the parents is the open grave of their child. Peering down you behold what is just the suggestion of a tiny form. It is then that you seem to almost hear a low moan escape from the throat of the mother.
From this contemplation of grief you are led, through reading the inscriptions referred to above, away from the story told by the monument, away from the tragedy of Winter Quarters to its victory. For, as President Grant announced in his nationwide broadcast which preceded the unveiling, "There was no tragedy here, for tragedy spells defeat and disaster. This was the victory of Winter Quarters, for here were faith and hope and charity raised to their loftiest pinnacle, while greed and selfishness were brought low." Then he went on to say: "We are met here to dedicate a stately memorial to the trials, to the hardships, and to these victories of Winter Quarters. This heroic bronze set up here figures the last sacrifice of loving parents. In their faces is seen the anguish of parting, but in their hearts there are the comfort and solace of a knowledge that this parting is but for time, and that, in the eternity to follow after time will come an eternal life together of peace, joy, and love without ending."
Of the more than a dozen quotations, executed in large bronze letters, and set into the encircling stone about the monument, I have space to include but three here:
From the Bible: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and they that hear shall live."
From the Book of Mormon: "But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all things."
From the Doctrine and Covenants: "For after much tribulation cometh the blessing. Wherefore the day cometh that they shall be crowned with much glory; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand."
Contemplating this work of art, and absorbing its spirit, reading these inscriptions surrounding it, and considering the history of this sacred spot, I doubt if any individual could go from this place the same person who came. Mute sentinel though the monument may be, its very silence is eloquent, for it speaks to the soul.
Relief Society Conference OPENING SESSION September 30 and October 1, 1936 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City September 30 and October 1, 1936. There were six sessions. The four Departments covering the formal educational courses were held the first day, in the following order? Teachers' Topic, Theology, Social Service and Literary. These meetings were held in the Assembly Hall, and were attended by a large and enthusiastic gathering of Class Leaders and Stake and Mission Officers. The two sessions of the second day consisted of a meeting for General, Stake and Mission Officers and Board Members, in the Assembly Hall, and a General Session for the public in the Tabernacle.
The following is the attendance at the Officers' Meeting: 107 Stakes and 9 Missions were represented. Mission Presidents 9; Stake Presidents 79; Counselors 115; Secretaries 49; Board Members and Class Leaders 373; Total 625.
The Ushers for the Conference were courteously furnished by the following Stakes?Ensign, Granite, Grant, Highland, Liberty, Salt Lake.
The music was an especially attractive feature. Congregational numbers were led by General Board Music Chairman Ida Peterson Beal, accompanied by Janet M. Thompson. The Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, were, as usual, outstanding, and were assisted by the following artists: Alta B. Cassity, Frank W. Asper, William M. Hardiman, Alvin Keddington, Bessie Marley, Margaret S. Hewlett, Inez Robinson Preece, Dorothy Rosebraugh and associates. President Louise Y. Robison presided at all sessions, with Counselor Kate M. Barker, Chairman of the General Board Educational Program, conducting the Department Meetings.