GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison
"TODAY all our sessions will be devoted to the work of Class Leaders. It is a glorious privilege to be called to teach?not merely to tell things which one knows, but to influence people to have higher, more stimulating thoughts. Ideas have power. In the end, right ideas will rule the world and you have the privilege of helping to bring this change about. To have sympathy for those whom you teach, to prayerfully understand their needs and to earnestly try to help, gives to the Class Leader a richer, fuller life?a life worth sharing. A leader in Relief Society must have unusual qualifications. Scholastic training, although very important, is not sufficient. High schools and colleges can supply this, but Latter-day Saints, in addition to educational training, should have a message which is distinctly a spiritual one, which should be incorporated in every lesson and story. Not only should words be inspired, but the lives of Leaders must conform to the ideals and standards of our Church, if we would have influence with those whom we teach.
"No man can tell what trend or bent His life to his neighbor's creed has lent."
Let us ever remember the power of prayer, for we know the things of the spirit can be understood only by the Spirit.
TEACHERS' TOPIC DEPARTMENT Amy W. Evans, Acting Chairman
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR AND THEIR APPLICATION TO DAILY LIFE President David O. McKay
PRESIDENT ROBISON, Members of the General Board and Sisters of the Relief Society:
A word which connotes the sweetest, most precious thing in life is "Mother." One of the most encouraging promises ever given to people who love service, is that made by the Savior in these words, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." It is because the Relief Societies of the Church include generally our mothers, and because they are devoted to the service of God's children, that this organization merits first place among the auxiliaries of the Church of Jesus Christ.
I grew to manhood before I realized the significance of the service that is rendered by our sisters in this Church. In fact I had to go on my first mission before I had a glimpse of the magnitude and beauty of the service that is rendered by our sisters of the Relief Society. It is with the feeling of appreciation and gratitude that I stand before you this morning, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may prompt what I have to say, that it may be applicable and helpful to the teaching work of this great organization. My subject has been announced? "The Parables of the Savior and Their Application to Daily Life." I am informed that the application of Jesus' parables will be your message for the coming year as you go from house to house teaching, encouraging, blessing, administering to the Church; for your organization comprehends the entire Church.
A PARABLE is a religious allegory. "An allegory is setting forth of a subject under the guise of another subject, or of a suggested likeness." The word "parable" comes from the Greek, and means a setting side by side?a comparison. If I say "he is like a lion," I make a comparison. A parable, however, eliminates all comparative words such as "as" or "like"; it states the comparison as if it were an actual fact, but always has a religious significance. The use of the parable is a most effective means of teaching religious truth. It conveys to the listener or reader just what he or she is capable of comprehending? note that. That is why the Savior uses it so freely. He spoke in parables at one time in order that, so he said, some "having eyes may see not, and having ears may hear not." He knew that there were others who were sufficiently spiritually minded to comprehend the significance of the spiritual truth which He gave, but to some it would appear merely a story, denoting characters and incidents narrated therein. To another, more enlightened, it will connote fundamental, glorious principles of faith and conduct. Thus, the parable "is suited alike to simple and learned. The variety of its imagery charms many classes and many minds, teaching all to find divine truth in common things."
THE bible dictionary draws a clear distinction between the interpretation of a parable and the application of a parable. We are going to consider this morning the application, but we must keep in mind the difference between the interpretation and the application, and you teachers would do well to keep that in mind when you present these parables during the coming year. "The only true interpretation of a parable is the meaning which it conveyed or was meant to convey when first spoken. The application of a parable may be infinitely varied in every age and circumstance. In many cases, too, the meaning grows and deepens by the lessons of history and by the teachings of science."
Let us illustrate that. In one parable in Luke (it is also given in Matthew), we have "A House Divided Against Itself." You may all have it in mind, but let me read it quickly:
"But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils. "And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand: "And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand? "And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. "But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you. "Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? And then he will spoil his house. "He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad."?Matthew 12:24-30.
Now the interpretation of that parable takes us right back to the scene in which it was given. Jesus had performed a miracle; the Pharisees condemned him, and in order to justify their condemnation accused Him of being a prince of devils in casting out devils. "Why," he said, "should a devil try to cast out a devil? A house divided against itself cannot stand." And so He rebuked them, confounded them from their own mouths.
Now the application?The parable may be applied even today, over nineteen hundred years after it was spoken. For example, if members of an organization begin to fight one another, then the power of the organization is weakened. We may apply it in political circles, in a Ward, we may apply it in a household?a house divided against itself cannot stand. We may apply it to a father and mother disagreeing before their children. It is a universal lesson which can be applied in all ages, though the interpretation may take us back to the scene nineteen hundred years ago.
I have made a list of the principal parables of Jesus. I have listed forty:
The wise and foolish builders?Matt. 7: 24-27; Luke 6:47-49. Two debtors?Luke 7:41-47. New cloth on the old garment?Matt. 9: 16; Mark 2:21; Luke 5:36. New wine in old wine-skins?Matt. 9:17; Mark 2:22; Luke 5:37-39. House divided against itself?Matt. 12: 25-29; Mark 3:23-27; Luke 11:17-22. Rich fool?Luke 12:16-21. Servants waiting for their lord?Luke 12:35-40. Barren fig tree?Luke 13:6-9. Sower?Matt. 13:3-9, 18-23; Mark 4:1-9, 14-20; Luke 8:4-8, 11-15. Tares?Matt. 13:24-30, 36-43. Seed growing secretly?Mark 4:26-29. Mustard seed?Matt. 13:31, 32; Mark 4: 30-32; Luke 13:18, 19. Leaven?Matt. 13:33; Luke 13:20, 21. Hidden treasure?Matt. 13:44. Pearl of great price?Matt. 13:45, 46. Drag net?Matt. 13:47-50. Unmerciful servant?Matt 18:23-35. Good Samaritan?Luke 10:30-37. Friend at midnight?Luke 11:5-8. Good Shepherd?John 10:1-16. Great supper?Luke 14:15-24. Lost sheep?Matt. 18:12-14; Luke 15:3-7. Lost piece of money?Luke 15:8-10. Prodigal and his brother?Luke 15:11-32. Unjust steward?Luke 16:1-9. Rich man and Lazarus?Luke 16:19-31. Importunate widow?Luke 18:1-8. Pharisee and publican?Luke 18:9-14. Laborers in the vineyard?Matt. 20:1-16. Pounds?Luke 19:11-27. Two sons?Matt. 21:28-32. Wicked husbandmen?Matt. 21:33-44; Mark 12:1-12; Luke 20:9-18. Marriage of the king's son?Matt. 22:1-14. Fig tree leafing?Matt. 24:32, 33; Mark 13:28-29. Man taking a far journey?Mark 13:34-37. Ten virgins?Matt. 25:1-13. Talents?Matt. 25:14-30. The grain of wheat?John 12:24. Vine?John 15:1-8.
I have also here the list of the parables which are peculiar to each evangelist, i.e., Mark has included some parables which are not mentioned of Matthew, Luke or John. I am going to read these for you:
St. Matthew The Tares. The Hidden Treasure. The Pearl of Great Price. The Drag Net. The Unmerciful Servant. The Laborers in the Vineyard. The Two Sons. The Marriage of the King's Son. The Ten Virgins. The Talents.
St. Mark The Seed Growing Secretly.
St. Luke The Two Debtors. The Good Samaritan. The Importunate Friend. The Rich Fool. The Barren Fig Tree. The Lost Piece of Silver. The Prodigal Son. The Unjust Steward. Dives and Lazarus. The Pharisee and Publican. The Ten Pieces of Money. NOW, it is apparent that we can take only a few of these to see how they may be applied in daily life. Let me preface what I say with this thought, even at the expense of repetition-?that a parable contains a universal truth, and it is that truth which is applicable throughout the ages. I shall say no more about the interpretation, but emphasize the application. Let me now take three parables which you will find in Luke, Chapter 15. It starts out thus: "And he spake this parable unto them, saying, "What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?" I will not read the entire parable; you know how they rejoiced when they did find it. 692 "Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?" And having found it she calls in the neighbors, and rejoices, and so on. Third, He said: "A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "T will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants." You know the story of how he returned home and was welcomed. What application may we make of this ?several?but here is one. We are all teachers, and we are parents, and we have boys and girls and some of them are indifferent to religious things, they are indifferent towards their parents, and so on, but there is not one of them who cannot be reached if we approach him in the right way. I may not be able to do it, you may not, but somebody may, and I believe in these parables we have a guide to the method of reaching those who are wayward, not only in the home but in the Church, in the Relief Society, Sunday School, Priesthood Quorums. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Here are three persons and things which got lost. First, the lost sheep. He had wandered from the fold seeking a legitimate living, and did not do wrong, he was so eager upon getting that which his body needed, that he unconsciously, not wilfully, wandered so far away from the flock that when darkness came he could not be found, and was lost. Keep that in mind. The second is a lifeless coin, not responsible for its acts. It gets lost, but through carelessness of another. The third deliberately chooses the riotous living, and he leaves home and comes to starvation and sorrow. Now there are three ways in which people become indifferent and sin. There is the young man who is engrossed in business, he is thoroughly wrapped up in it, it is the means by which he may accumulate wealth, and he has lost interest in the Church; he has not time to go to his quorum, but he is not a sinful man, his interests are in business, and if I want to bring him back I must approach him in that business field. Don't you see it would be wrong for me to condemn him for doing something which is legitimate? His indifference in the Church is not due to sinfulness. Here is another boy, (and I have. One in mind who is on the downward track )?he is not interested in business, he does not know what to do, he has not chosen his vocation. Why is he indifferent? His mother died when he was only six years of age. His father is smoking, drinking and living a careless life. The day-school teachers are indifferent as to his attendance in that little town in which he lives, and so he does not even go to school more than three or four months in the year. The Sunday School teacher has never visited his home, and is, thoughtlessly, indifferent whether the boy attends Sunday RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE School or not. So there is a lost coin, lost because of the indifference of somebody else. What he needs is love, kindness and somebody to show an interest in him. And here is the third who is taking to his smoking, drinking, loss of morality and lives a riotous life. I am afraid we cannot reach him until, like the prodigal son, he finds himself, and we must help him to find himself. To bring him back or convert him, we shall just have to say, "My boy, don't you see where this is leading you?" But, he must find hunself, and come back and say, "Father, I have sinned." There are your three applications. They will be applicable to any quorum, any organization in this Church. Let us take another. The sower went forth to sow, and the seeds fell in stony places; other seeds fell on thin soil, and sprang up and died; but some seeds fell in rich soil, and produced one hundred fold. There is the interpretation, what about the application? The seed is the Word of God in any dispensation in any time. The Bible contains that word ?the New Testament, the Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants. But sometimes that seed falls in minds that have not the background of religion. They are in school five days a week, and they are thinking about things which are really contradictory to the truths of religion, and so when you say something to them about religion in the home or Sunday School, it just dies, is choked out. They go back to school and find that prayer is ridiculed (I speak knowingly). Seeds of doubt are planted in the hearts of the youth. Some of the seeds fall among thorns and are choked out. What are these thorns? The Bible tells us the tares of the world, deceitfulness 693 of riches, lust of other things. Luke names three?tares, riches and pleasures of life. Seeds of truth fall among people who are interested in these things, and are choked out. That leads us to another parable which should be applied, and that is the Parable of the Tares. A man went out and sowed his seed and expected a good harvest, but at night an enemy came and sowed weeds or tares right in the midst of the corn, so that when the crops grew there were the tares and weeds right with the corn. The application here is wonderful, I should like to give it to the whole Church. There are tares in the Church, indifferent, not sinful people, who deal unjustly and unrighteously with their neighbors. For example, we received a letter at the President's Office the other day naming a certain man, saying, "If you do not handle him you may take my name, and the names of my children, off the Church records."" What is the writer of that letter doing, even if his accusation be true? He is looking at a tare, and he forgets this, that Ananias and Sapphira were members of the primitive church; Judas was even a member of the Council of the Twelve. It is folly to say to the President of the Church or to say to the Presidency of the Relief Society, '""You remove that man, or you remove that woman, or else I will stop coming to Church." The Savior said no, do not pull up the tares or you will destroy the corn; let them grow together and in the time of harvest bind your tares to be burned and harvest your good crop. O, what a beautiful message! Again, consider the parable of The Hidden Treasure. A man was farming and found that hidden treasure, the greatest of all things, and sacrificed everything for it. Sometimes people are absorbed in getting the gain of the world and lose sight 694 of that treasure which is hidden right before them. "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" Then there is the parable of the foolish man?the rich fool. He said, My harvests are so great that my barns and granaries will not contain them. I will tell you what I will do. I will tear down the old granaries and barns and build greater, more spacious granaries, more extensive barns. The Savior said, "Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee." That is called "The Parable of the Rich Fool." His aims were no higher than the beasts of the field. God had given him these things, and he did not even pay his tithing or express his appreciation, but said, "I am going to take these things for my own.' In keeping with that is the parable of the Wedding Garment. A certain king had made a great wedding feast for his son, and many were invited, and there was one there without a wedding garment, and the host said, "Why are you here without a wedding garment? Take him and bind him, and cast him into outer darkness." It seems harsh, doesn't it? But it is not when we think of the application. We are invited into Christ's Church, with Christ at the head, those who are there possessing pure characters. One whose character is not pure is not fit for that company, and of his own volition he will find himself eager to escape and get out somewhere else where he will be more in harmony with his surroundings. The wedding garment is a pure, spotless character. Teachers, you can carry that into every home. The parable of "The Good Samaritan"' I will pass because I see you have that on the program, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE application of which is that a right example will do more to benefit the world than high professions. The good neighbor is he who performs neighborly acts. The "Laborers in the Vineyard" will probably be difficult for some of you to explain. You will remember that the men were hired for so much in the morning, and were placed in the vineyard. About noon the owner went out and hired more men and paid them a stipulated amount, and on the eleventh hour he found some more and brought them in, though they worked only one hour, yet he paid them the same as those who had worked all day. That does not seem fair, and those who had worked all day protested, and said, We have worked all day, and you are giving to these men who worked for only one hour as much: as you are giving us. Do you remember what the owner of the vineyard said? Have you not received all that I promised you? They had received full compensation for what they had given. If I wish to pay these men the same as you, are you deprived of any blessing? They would have to say "No." What was the lesson Jesus wished to teach? That those who are prompted by selfishness receive pay for only that which they give, but those who were hired last would have been as willing to serve all day but did not have the opportunity. They accepted the call with appreciation and gratitude and willingness to serve, and God, who rewards by the heart, rewarded them even more than He rewarded those who entered into it selfishly. There is a guide for you teachers and Bishops in this Church Security plan. You do not know how to discriminate between those who merit assistance and those who do not. There are some whom you say are not worthy of help. Are they willing RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to cooperate with you? Are they willing to come in here and help? If so, let them give, but if they sit by, find fault and claim something is due them, then you may judge accordingly. Finally as an illustration, I am going to give the parable of the two sons. The father said to one son, "Will you please do this," and he said, "I will not," but afterwards he did it. He said to the second son, "Will you do this work," and he said, "I will," but he failed to do it. Which of these two sons deserved the reward? That was the parable. What is the application? That there is virtue in doing, not in promising. It is the doing that the Lord wants, not the mere promise. Let me quote, as a summary of this latest parable which I have given, this expression in verse. It is applicable to all of us in the Church: "T'd rather see a sermon than hear one any day. I'd rather one would walk with me than merely point the way. The eye's a better pupil and more willing than the ear, Fine council is confusing, but examples' always clear. And best of all the preachers are the ones who live their creeds. For to see good put in action is what everybody needs. "I soon can learn to do it, if you'll let me see it done. 695 I can watch your hands in action, but your tongue may too fast run. And your lecture you deliver may be wise and true, But I'd rather get my lessons by observing what you do. For I might misunderstand you in the high advice you give But there's no misunderstanding how you act and how you live." "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. "And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell: and great was the fall of it." In conclusion I want to bear you my witness that the teachings of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, contain the true philosophy of living. I make no exception, I love them. There are men who say they are not applicable to this day. They are as applicable today as they were when He spake them, and because they contain eternal truths they will be applicable through all time. God help us to understand these eternal truths, and may He give us power to live them I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. "THE PARABLE OF THE Good SAMARITAN" Mrs. Ida F, Nielsen, Shelley Stake WHENEVER Jesus wanted to impress a truth on the minds of the people he did it by telling a story. These stories were called parables. One day while he was teaching the people he saw a fine opportunity to teach one of God's commandments in a way that would never leave the minds of the multitude gathered there, one of the great saving principles of his Gospel, a principle that 696 the whole world is sadly in need of today, is contained in the great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." When we hear those words we wonder as those people must have wondered, who is my neighbor? Is it the family next door? Or is it only those with whom I like best to associate? The teachings of our Savior point the way for us in this problem. The beautiful parable of the Good Samaritan clearly shows us what our attitude should be. True happiness comes only through service. The thrill of a good deed done to another not only lightens the load of a neighbor but brings peace and happiness into our own lives. And when we perform any little service for another, even if it is just a word of encouragement in time of need, we are being a neighbor to them whether they live near or far, and whether they are lowly in the sight of man or have reached the top of the ladder of success. I can imagine as people listened to the words of our Savior they would fall into the habit of calling him the teacher. One day while he was teaching the multitude, a learned man stood up in the crowd and asked, "Teacher, what shall I do to win. Eternal life?' And Jesus answered, "What do the Scriptures say?" And the man replied, "Love God with all your heart, and your neighbor as yourself." Then Jesus said, "Do that and you will win Eternal Life." But the questioner, wishing to justify himself, asked, "Who is my neighbor?" In answer Jesus told the story of the Good Samaritan. So often we pass our neighbors by when they need our help, too busy with our own problems to stop and give even a word of encouragement to neighbors in trouble when just a kindly smile or a pat on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE back might be the very stimulus they need to meet the trials before them and send them on their way rejoicing. I have a neighbor who lives just a few short miles through the fields from the ranch which is home to me. Her name is Agnes Just Reid and she wrote this little poem which lightens my load every time I read lt: "Across the fields lives my neighbor, I seldom see her but I rejoice that she is there. Out towards the sunrise I see the smoke from her chimney And she sees mine, silhouetted against the evening sky. I know when the apple trees bloom in her orchard,; I know when the grain in the lowlands is ready for the reapers, She, too, knows these same things about me; I know that when trouble comes to me, she will be the first to share it, She is my strength! She points the way to God? She is my neighbor." We have such a wonderful opportunity at this particular time to put into practical use the message of the parable of the Good Samaritan by adhering to the council of those in authority over us and doing all in our power to make the Church Security Program a living monument to the teachings of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. And Oh, the joy and happiness that will come to us in the knowledge that we have been given the privilege of supplying the right kind of food to those less fortunate than we, that we, in our own weak way have helped to clothe the needy, that through our efforts some child may be given the chance RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to develop physically, mentally and spiritually. Truly we can say as Emily Dickinson has said, "If I can stop one heart from breaking 697 I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin, Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain." "Tar PARABLE OF THE GOOD SAMARITAN" DISCUSSED FROM THE VIEWPOINT OF THE VISITING TEACHERS Mrs. E. D. Sorensen, Bonneville Stake "THE story of the Good Samaritan embodies the very principle for which the Prophet organized Relief Society?to seek those in need. Due to the variety of problems a visiting teacher encounters in each home, it is necessary that she be resourceful and fully equipped to deliver her message successfully to each individual. In introducing her topic she must choose some method which will arouse general interest in her subject and one which the listener can associate with her own experience. Successful teachers have found that the most satisfactory method of filling these two requirements is by an example?in other words a story?simple and direct which will illustrate clearly the topic they wish to put over. Everyone loves a story?and this will immediately arouse the listener's curiosity and interest which is the first step in putting over the lesson. Stories arouse interest because they deal with everyday experience, things which could happen to anyone, and with very little difficulty one can find very fine examples which illustrate clearly the lessons which we, as Visiting Teachers, must take to the homes. There are many tales or fables which illustrate the story of the Good Samaritan. These are familiar to all, and may recall to the listener's mind a similar experience where she had an opportunity to do a good deed to some one; or it may suggest to her mind some kindness or good deed which she may be able to perform this day. Therefore, by associating the lessons with problems each one of us may meet, will instill a desire to follow the example of the figure in the story. Each one of us can find peace and joy in kindness to others. THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT Lotta Paul Baxter, Chairman "THE DIVINE SPIRIT IN OUR THEOLOGY? Annie Wells Cannon, Member of the General Board text this morning will be from Luke 17:21, ''Neither shall they say lo here! Or lo there! For, behold, the spirit of God is within you." The ministry of the Savior is our subject for the lessons for this year. It is the most wonderful story in the world, for Jesus was the greatest teacher in all history, the most perfect exemplar. Knowing himself to be the King of Kings, yet he was the 698 humblest of all men. In all humility he taught that "He who -is least: among you all, the same shall be greatest." In approaching our task let us endeavor to have the "spirit of God within us," with this humble attitude and the philosophy that beneath the unrest and materialism that surrounds us there is still among us the best life in the world a steadfast faith that we will be able to counter all skepticism and succeed in the work. What happiness it will be to you, if sometime someone will say, "She was my teacher and she has been an inspiration to me all my life." Nothing quickens the soul of man like the divine Spirit. It helps along every path in life and it is ours for the asking, for Jesus said, "Ask and it shall be given you." Prayer is the key, and faith the door by which one may enter into the richness of wisdom, knowledge and understanding. This is our pearl of great price. The first and best help in our work is naturally a careful reading of the gospels as told by Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Aside from the good this will do you as teachers, it will also give you a better and clearer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciation of the works of the great masters in art and literature with which you may enrich your lessons. In seeking to enrich your lessons by secular reading, use pictures or music, the best that can be found. Men have given years of thought and endeavor to produce a single canvas, oratorio, book or poem which would portray their ideal conception of the personality and majesty of the Lord Jesus. It is my belief that these great master minds have approached their work with an absolute faith and clean hearts, even as the poet, Edwin Arnold, said in his poem, "The Light of the World," when the Sovereign voice inspired him to write, that he felt himself "Not meet, one word of that sweet speaking to repeat," and the voice said, "Wash thy lips clean and sing." So must it have been with all who have written, sung or painted of the Master?so must it be with those who teach. In your teaching avoid argument, have the Spirit of God within you; "study to show thyself approved of God, a worker that needeth not to be ashamed" and there will be happiness in your work and joy in your soul. THE VALUE OF THE GOSPEL TO ZION'S YOUTH Donna D. Sorensen, Member of the General Board SAYS one of our historians: "The life of Jesus Christ must ever remain the noblest and most fruitful study for all men of every age" and from the gospels, "meaning the good news of God" we derive almost the whole of our knowledge of the life and teachings of Jesus. I should list the paramount value of the gospels to Zion's youth to be, first of all, a source for the promoting of an individual testimony. In these great books all may come to a more complete understanding of our Father and his love for us. We have also in the gospels that which holds a hope for man and is an inspiration to righteousness, for all four of the books contain predictions of Jesus concerning his own death and resurrection and all four of the writers speak of the actuality of Christ's resurrection. Here is indeed something to stir the souls of men and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE quicken the gift of faith and an answer to that age-old question, "If a man die, shall he live again?" As a second value of the gospels I should list: their influence in the shaping of a guiding philosophy of life. Many are called upon to live their lives under situations that call for constant patience, endurance, resistance and fortitude. The life of the Master sounds a courageous call to all of us to judge not, to be merciful, to lose our life that we may find it. Here in the gospels is that information which all are seeking: the way to treat our fellowman; the knowledge which should direct and temper every act. Here we may gain the proper perspective that will help us to see things now as they will seem forever, to discriminate between things that are little and things that are big before it is too late. A third value of a knowledge of the gospels would rest in their literary 699 excellence. Intent as Matthew, Mark, Luke and John were upon the truths they sought to utter they expressed themselves in beautiful language. True, the story of Jesus as contained in the gospels, is simply told and is not too difficult for even the less-educated to read, neither is it less satisfying in its literary excellence to the best educated. "Many have since attempted to tell the same story, adorning and -elaborating it with all the resources of literary skill. Yet we always fall back on the gospel narrative not only because it is the earliest but because it is incomparably the best." Much of the great literature of the world contains Biblical allusions and much of it is based on scriptural themes. To understand the literature of the gospels is to approach other great literature with a more understanding heart. SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT Emma A. Empey, Chairman THE DEVELOPMENT OF SPIRITUALITY THROUGH THE SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT Amy Brown Lyman, Counselor, Read by Emeline Y. Nebeker, of the General Board IN social service work there are two fields of action; one is helping individuals who are already in trouble, out of their trouble and is thus curative in its nature; the other is helping to keep people out of trouble. Relief Society is interested in both these fields. It gives help to families and individuals in need through its welfare work which is carried on in all the wards; and it has instituted a department of study in Social Problems and allied subjects with the object of helping its members to understand their social surroundings and to increase their knowledge of human relationships so they as a group may be better able to plan, and to give better service to humanity and to be vigorous, effective workers in preventive and constructive work. Believing that the Glory of God is intelligence, Latter-day Saints have always fostered education; and believing in a life beyond the grave where we take with us all that we learn here, they have sensed the 700 importance of placing emphasis on those things which are spiritual in nature and permanent in value. The object of the Relief Society courses of study, as I see them, is to help its members to better their own lives and the lives of others; to teach them how to live as fully and completely as possible; to furnish them opportunity for the gaining of knowledge and culture, opportunity for character education, and most important of all, for spiritual development. These objectives can be obtained in any and all of our educational departments. But special attention is called to our Social Service lesson where the particular field of study for this year is Sociology. And what is Sociology? Sociology is defined as the study of human relations. It is a combination of economics and philanthrophy and is the foundation for effective social work and sound citizenship. It is a comparatively new study. Not until 1850 did people begin to seriously study human relations, and it was no doubt taken up with the hope of finding out what was the matter with almost everything. It was not until 1890, however, that Sociology as a subject was placed in the college curriculum. Today this subject is taught in every high school and college in the land, and every student is required to take it. The text used in Relief Society is divided into three parts: Trends in American Society; Major Social Problems; and Major Civic Problems. Under the first division is discussed among other things the drift to the cities, transportation, the spread of the machine process, the transformation of the home. Under the second division we have the family, child welfare education, crime, poverty, disease, etc. Under the third division we have civic problems RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE such as: willing obedience to law; promotion of peace among nations; the labor-capital struggle; the support of government; the place of the political party; the citizen as a voter. Why should not women study these important subjects? Pure religion and true social service are so closely related that they seem almost one and the same thing. The Scriptures are replete with passages confirming this thesis. They tell us that faith without works is dead and that works without faith are inadequate. To quote James, "Show me your faith without works and I will show you my faith by my works." The 2nd great commandment says: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Another passage says: "If we love not our brother whom we have seen, how can we love God whom we have not seen?" To save and rescue human beings is the strongest motive one can conceive, and this is a religious ideal. It is one of the ideals set up by the Prophet Joseph Smith for the Relief Society. It is also the chief object of social work. And in the process of saving and rescuing human beings, both those who help and those who are helped are stimulated, lifted up, purified and spiritualized. The closest relationship between religion and human welfare (or charity) has existed from the beginning of time, and the influence of religion upon the benevolent instincts of mankind is apparent in any study of either religion or charity. The saying of the Savior, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me," especially inspires all Christians to be truly charitable and helpful. Religion with its inspiration and enthusiasm touches the essential human values in ourselves and in others, the sacredness of human life, the divine qualities in every man? his fundamental value and rights. It stimulates the study of human problems and human welfare work itself, which latter in a large degree is work with human souls. And in our own studies and our own work we constantly pay tribute to the spiritual values. The Church as an institution has a passion for righteousness, a feeling for the kinship of mankind, a recognition of human brotherhood; and it can instill in the individual a passion for righteousness that will not only be the contributing factor in his own life, but the contributing factor in inspiring him to human helpfulness.
Shaler Matthews, former dean of the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, in speaking of the helpfulness of churches to social service said that those communities without churches seldom establish welfare agencies at all and are never so forward looking regarding social justice as those which do. On the other hand, benevolence and "good works" lead back to religion. I am convinced that those who study and work for the imparting of knowledge, who work for the relief of human distress, for the healing of disease, for the building up of universal standards of health, have confidence in the essential divinity of every man. Their devotion proves this.
UNION MEETING SUGGESTIONS Belle S. Spafford