Lesson Department (For First Week in January) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson 4 FUNDAMENTAL QUALITIES OF LIFE (The Beatitudes) Helpful References Matthew, 5:1-6; 5:7-12. III Nephi, 12:1-6; 12:7-12. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17. King, The Ethics of Jesus, Chapter 6 Rall, The Teachings of Jesus, p. 69 f. Bennion, Moral Teachings of the New Testament, Chapter 28. Findlay, The Realism of Jesus, Chapter 6. 1. Beatitudes Point Out Qualities of Character, Happiness, and Influence. | T has been pointed out by some | able men that the Beatitudes lead us into a new realm of morality. Characteristically, the Savior got down to bedrock in the realm of the spirit, and defined for His disciples the fundamental qualities essential to character, to joy, and to moral power. Henry Churchill King, speaking of the Beatitudes, said, "In them the supreme artist in living, facing the whole problem of the life for all men, distinctly challenges the ruling conceptions of his time, and definitely points out the qualities of character that must mark the citizen of the coming civilization of the brotherly men; and declares that these qualities are at the same time the supreme conditions of happiness, and that they contain as well the secret of all powerful influence for good." After pointing out that the Christ was disappointed with the false standards and acts of men, President King adds, "he has begun his preaching with the charge: Repent, get a new mind. That new mind and character he defines in the Beatitudes." 2. Definition of "Blessed." It is usual for us to associate the word "Beatitude" with "blessed." But unfortunately the latter has now come to have little meaning for us, because it is used as a technical religious term. New Testament scholars almost despair of adequately translating the Beatitudes. It is almost necessary to paraphrase them if they are to be made readily understandable. It will not do to substitute "happy" for "blessed," because to our age "happiness" does not connote the same thing as the "blessedness" of which the Lord spoke. "What is apparently meant is 'to be congratulated upon their prospects'; the men and women described in the sentences which begin with this word are likely candidates for the Kingdom, as the 'rich' and 'well-fed,' 'the strong, the easy, and the glad' are not.": 3. First Group of Beatitudes deal. With Inner Personal Qualities. In discussing the Beatitudes we shall divide them into two groups of four each. The first four Beatitudes have mainly to do with inner personal qualities; the second group with social matters?our dealings in relation to others. In the first Beatitude the Lord deals with the '"'poor in spirit." These seem to be lowly folk who, somehow, are out of tune LESSON DEPARTMENT with the bustling, giddy, restless life about them. They are they who have a deep sense of spiritual deficiency and dependence upon God. These are they who "have no will of their own before God, only a perfect and contented submission to him." These are they who are "the humble, the teachable, the open-minded, and include as well the trustful." This Beatitude as reported in III Nephi 12:3 specifies that the above "who come unto me" are the heirs of the "kingdom of heaven." Such people are truly "blessed" and "to be congratulated upon their prospects." Those who mourn, are the subject of the second Beatitude. This class is made up of those who are deeply concerned for their sins, who mourn their defects, and who are truly repentant. These may be contrasted with those who are without conscience or scruple, who make no effort toward self-examination. The word "meek" in the third Beatitude is very difficult to render in modern speech. It was almost better to point to a man like President Wilford Woodruff as an example of it than to attempt to define it. -The Old Testament meaning seems to be "humble." "Easy to get on with," "unassuming," "ready to make allowances," "gentle," "patiently persistent," are terms that define various phases of it. Professor Findlay in defining the "meek" says, "They are men, who, with great ends in view, are willing to give way and make allowances in matters of smaller moment; they have that rare faculty, the ability to distinguish trifles from what is of serious importance. All quarrelsome people justify themselves on the ground that the thing is a question of principle with them; the meek man knows by instinct where he must fight and where he can safely yield ground." Those who "hunger and thirst after righteous- 723 ness' as mentioned in the fourth Beatitude have "the insatiable desire for character itself, the unfailing pursuit of the best in conduct and inner spirit." Such in their inner desires and outer actions attempt to conform to the will of God. Seemingly this Beatitude as reported in Matthew is not complete. III Nephi 12:6 indicates that the subjects of the Beatitude ''shall be filled with the Holy Ghost." A better guide to fulfil their desires could scarcely be found. Professor Rall sums up the spirit of the first four Beatitudes as follows: "The central thought of the first four Beatitudes is one: the spirit of humility regarding onesself, the spirit of longing toward God." 4. Second Group of Beatitudes Deals with Man's Relation to his Fellows. As pointed out above, the second four Beatitudes deal more especially with man's relation to his fellows. It should be constantly kept in mind that the first four do not necessarily exclude ali relations with one's fellows; the emphasis is placed rather on the individual and his inner qualities. The second group with which we now deal emphasizes that righteousness does not exist apart from our fellows. The fifth Beatitude deals with the "merciful." This word carries with it a sense of "brotherly" rather than "pitiful." The merciful man has pity, of course, but he has as well a sense of courtesy and kindness that far transcends the "compassionate conde-. Scension of a superior to one beneath him." The Good Samaritan in the tenth chapter of Luke is the type of the merciful man. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves? And he said, "He that showed mercy on him." (Italics ours). The word "heart" of the sixth Beatitude has reference to the "mind" in our current 724 speech. The "pure minded" as suggested by one writer are those who in their quest of God "desire nothing else, they are set free from the hindrance of competing motives, unlike the rest of us who want so many things at the same time that we never really get anything." They have inner purity which comes by reason of their reverence of the sacredness of the person. "The pure in heart recognize the child of God in every soul, and treat him, accordingly, not as a thing, but as a holy person." Dr. King quotes a certain writer as saying, "Reverence is the root from which purity grows; and never was the essential nature of purity set in more vivid contrast with that blind and brutal profanity which is its opposite, than in Christ's striking utterance, 'Give not that which is holy to the dogs.' The "peacemakers" of the seventh Beatitude are not to be regarded simply as "keepers of the peace." Such men are "those who seek to call their fellows away from the distraction of the desires which divide them and set them against one another." These actively seek to reconcile men and nations and promote the cause of peace. "The peacemaker not only withstands hate, but positively promotes the reign of love among men." Truly such men "shall be called the children of God." The eighth Beatitude deals with the reward of men valiant in the service of God. Persecution is the badge of such service and ought not to be regarded as a penalty. Every prophet, pioneer, reformer, and scholar knows that the path leading to truth and righteousness is beset with difficulties. Such men "have been willing to endure hardness, to face the trying experience of the pioneer in every realm, to give the one incontestable proof of love that is found in sacrifice and suffering."  . Every Beatitude is Necessary. It will be seen, in conclusion, that every Beatitude is necessary in the formation of a complete character. The order of the Beatitudes, it will be noted, is remarkable. Each leads one a step higher on the difficult road of spiritual achievement. If love in its broadest sense be compared to a diamond, then each Beatitude is a facet reflecting the qualities that make it up. Questions 1. What is meant by character? Joy? (2 Nephi 2:25). Happiness? Pleasure? 2. What is your estimate of Ruskin's statement: "I believe the first test of a truly great man is his humility"'? 3. What is the importance of getting a clear conception of the meaning of the Beatitudes? Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit) 1. Show, if you can, that the Beatitudes are progressive, i. E., that each one naturally leads up to the one that follows. 2. Learn what you can of the late Jane Addams. Discuss her life in the light of the Beatitudes. 3. Determine as far as you can, the great movements now in the world to promote the cause of world peace. What is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints doing to promote this cause? 4, Let the class determine by discussion and research the possibilities and importance of newspapers and periodicals in promoting ideals and human fellowship. To what extent are these agencies performing their function in the direction of the ideals expressed in the Beatitudes? 5. Point out incidents in the life of President Wilford Woodruff, that show his meekness. TEACHERS' TOPIC (For January, 1937) THE PARABLE OF THE TALENTS (Matthew 25:14-30) OR the kingdom of Heaven is as a F man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained cther two. "But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. "After a long time the lord of the servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behcld I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things, enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I know thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed. "And I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth; lo, there thou hast that is thine. His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed. "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." The story is true to the Oriental life of the period, for when a wealthy man was leaving his home for awhile he might leave his confidential slaves to act for him, letting them till his soil and use his money in trade. There was an understanding that the servants would be rewarded for their faithfulness. The talent was about $1000 in our money; so ten talents represents a large fortune. The master gave the servants time to make good use of the talents. He returned after a long absence to call them to account. According to the ancient law all that grew on a man's land belonged to him, even though he had not sowed or planted. It was in this relation that the servant accused the master of harshness and greed. Keeping in mind the definition of a parable, "An earthly story with a heavenly meaning," we know that our Lord does not mean money, but the natural gifts and opportunity for service. If we fail to use our gifts and take advantage of our opportunities we naturally forfeit them and "from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." For the one who uses his 726 gifts and takes advantage of opportunity and responsibility for service devoting himself to the Lord's work is the "one who hath" and to him shall be given more responsibility and ability. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Discussion What is the meaning of "the more of love we give the more we have"? What are the opportunities for development through service to others? WORK AND BUSINESS REPAIRING, REMODELING, REPLENISHING, CLOTHING, BEDDING AND HOUSEHOLD LINENS THE old saying, "A stitch in time saves nine,' surely is worth consideration, especially when so many synthetic materials of various kinds are used for every purpose in the home. Properly repaired articles, at the right time, require less replenishing. Remodeling may or may not be result of poor repairing. Following the holiday seasons when the daily routine of work is more or less off schedule, is a good time to take an inventory of the household stock. It is between seasons and many wardrobes especially those of school children, show signs of wear, and with some changes in several articles they can be made to last the few remaining weeks of winter. Also preparation for the remodeling of the past summer, clothes can be done to meet the needs of the warm days which soon follow. Then, too, many department stores and smaller shops have taken inventories of their stock and are advertising sales of various kinds with as high as 75% off on some articles. While it is not economy to buy anything unneeded or non-usable because it is cheap, many good buys can be made at this time, especially of linens and bedding, and whose household does not need replenishing from time to time? Careful planning not only saves money and energy but many hours of tedious work entailed in keeping up family standards. Whether repairing or remodeling worn fabrics, or buying new ones it is the smart and clever woman who knows her textiles, how best to use and to care for them. With the large amount of rayon consumed 250,000,000 lbs. Of fabrics yearly is the estimated amount produced) every customer who uses it should be informed as to what will or will not wear or wash well. The weave is the gauge by which its cleanable qualities are measured. The close fine even weave lends itself best to proper care and is usually washable. Not all fabrics are preshrunk and to save shrinkage after laundering it is best to wash material before it is made up. Colors often make a costume and should last the life of the garment. Sunlight, washing, perspiration and other conditions cause fading, be sure colors are fast or the effort in matching materials and accessories will be lost. Stretchy materials often cause baggy skirts and droopy hems. Pull the fabric firmly between fingers; if it gives much and does not go back in place chances are it will stretch when washed or worn very much. For the woman who sews fashion and pattern designers and fabric manufacturers are cooperating better and each month brings beautiful new designs and fabrics adapted to meet the various needs. Home sewing and remodeling is being revived. The active women of today require a full and varied ward- LESSON DEPARTMENT robe and a larger supply of household linens. Mean extravagance or economy; it is the latter most women are choosing. They have discovered that few things are necessary to make sewing easy and enjoyable. With good material either new or renovated, an easy-to-follow pattern, a suitable design, sharp cutting scissors, a tape measure and a few good pins most women can create for themselves and their families clothes of beauty and distinction. You, too, may get satisfaction from so doing because you may choose just the pattern you like, make it in the fabric you want, have your fabrics any design or color, be sure of proper fit, and pay as much or little as you desire. For best results in repairing any fabric, the same kind of material in weave and texture and thread in size and color should be used. Especially is this true in mending stockings and lingerie. The dainty appearance of the latter may be preserved by occasional tinting. A faded blue garment will tint a delicate or- 'chid with pink dye. A pale yellow will shade into a delicate green with blue dye. Many other combinations can be produced with little experimenting, but only small quantities of dye should be used for pastel colors. White woolen blankets which have become yellowed with age or unproper washing may also be dyed pink, rose green or any favorite color, and when bound with material with same or contrasting color they are pretty as well as serviceable. Sheets that show signs of wear will give longer service if torn apart down the center, the salvage edges turned to middle and sewed with a flat seam, and the torn edges finished with a narrow hem. Cotton sheet blankets may be treated the same way. Unbleached sheeting bought by the yard and hemmed at home will wear longer than ready-made sheets, it soon bleaches out white.
Materials to be remodeled should be cleaned according to their characteristics and carefully pressed before using. If in doing the latter the fabrics become scorched it may be removed from light woolen material by spreading French chalk or moistened cornstarch over scorched place and let remain until starch is thoroughly dry. If on linen wash with soap and water or wet with lemon juice and place in sun. Moistened bicarbonate of soda will remove it from light silk. White felt hats may also be cleaned with moistened starch, paste of magnesium and water, dry cornmeal or art gum. Brush carefully; either method is used.
Crushed nap or pile of such material as velvet can be restored by placing spot over basin of hot water, the wrong side next to the water or by using a moderately hot iron on wrong side while material is in hanging position. Sometimes just exposure to air will restore it.
If dry cleaning has to be done at home every precaution should be taken to avoid accidents. Friction often causes explosion and starts fires. Do not use washing machine for such purposes. It is never economy to combine new with old material unless it is for parts of article where there is extra or excessive wear.
Time spent in selecting clothes, bedding and linens saves time in caring for them. Let quality, durability, adaptability, and usability be guides in accomplishing this.
References
Article, "Will it Wash," Aug., 1936, Delineator. Article, "Imagine Wearing That," Sept., 1936, Delineator. Better Buymanship Pamphlets, Household Finance Corp., 1919 North Michigan Ave., Chicago.
LITERATURE (For Second Week in January)
Lesson IV ABRAHAM LINCOLN
AT the services for Will Rogers at the Hollywood Bowl, Rupert Hughes said that a word used to describe Abraham Lincoln could perhaps best be used to describe Will Rogers. That word was "homespun." If it be true, then the word "homespun" is an exalted word; for it looms large in the lives of two of America's most unique citizens, and has helped to build two of the most characteristic and beloved men of our Republic. Both disdained the conventional demands of dress; both could tell good stories; both knew the value of a sense of humor, and both had an understanding of human nature so rare that from it there evolved a compelling and keen philosophy of life.
The life of Abraham Lincoln written by Carl Sandburg, American poet, is entitled "Abraham Lincoln, The Prairie Years." And that is exactly what it is, for it does not follow him to the Nation's Capitol. It is a volume of 908 pages and carries with it the history of the settlement of the Prairie Country. It is one of the great volumes of American pioneer life, vitalized by a discriminating and plentiful use of detail.
Abraham Lincoln's father's name was Tom. He lived in a country where when "they wished to speak of lighter things, they could talk about pancakes." It was a saying that a woman who was clever "could toss a pancake off the skillet up through the top of the chimney and run outdoors and catch it coming down."
Tom Lincoln was looking for a wife. His eyes fell upon a brunette sometimes called Nancy Hanks and sometimes Nancy Sparrow, who lived with the Sparrow family. Lucy Hanks had given birth to Nancy in Virginia, in 1784, "and had traveled the Wilderness Road carrying what was to her a precious bundle through Cumberland Gap and on into Kentucky."
"Tom Lincoln had seen this particular Nancy Hanks living with the Sparrows and noticed she was shrewd and dark and lonesome. He had heard her tremulous voice and seen her shaken with sacred desires in church camp-meetings; he had seen her at preachings in cabins when her face stood out as a sort of picture in black against the firelight of the burning logs. He knew she could read the Bible, and had read in other books. She had seen a few newspapers and picked out pieces of news and read her way through.... Her dark skin, dark brown hair, keen little gray eyes, outstanding forehead, somewhat accented chin and cheek-bones, body of slender build, weighing about 130 pounds, these formed the outward shape of a woman carrying something strange and cherished along her ways of life. She was sad with sorrows like dark stars in blue mist. The hope was deep burned in her that beyond the harsh clay paths, the everyday scrubbing, washing, patching, fixing, the babble and the gabble of today, there are pastures and purple valleys of song."
"She believed in God, in the Bible, in mankind, in the past and future, in babies, animals, people, flowers, fishes. Everyday came scrubbing, washing, patching, fixing. There was so little time to think or sing about the glory she believed in."
Nevertheless, on June 10, 1806, she married Thomas Lincoln, according to the rites of the Methodist Episcopal Church. It was a Kentucky wedding where bear-meat, venison, wild turkey and ducks' eggs, wild and tame, and maple sugar lumps tied on a string to bite off for coffee or whiskey were served. Nor was this all. A sheep had been barbecued over coals of wood burned in a pit. It would seem that the whole village attended the wedding and that whiskey was much in evidence. She was a June bride. Her husband put her on a horse and they rode along the red clay road to Elizabethtown, where they settled in a cabin close to the courthouse. The new husband was a carpenter who made cabinets, door-frames, window sashes, and coffins. His reputation was that of a solid reliable man whose word could be depended on.
While living in Elizabethtown their first child was born, a girl who they named Sarah. In blossomtime of the year 1808 Tom and Nancy with little Sarah moved to a farm of George Brownfield. "The smell of wild crab-apple blossoms, and the low crying of all wild things came keen that summer to the nostrils of Nancy Hanks."
Later the Lincoln's moved to a place about two and a half miles from Hodgenville. "The floor was packed-down dirt. One door, swung on leather hinges, let them in and out. One small window gave a lookout on the weather, the rain or snow, sun and trees, and the play of the rolling prairie and low hills. A stick-clay chimney carried the fire smoke up and away."
One morning in February, 1809, Tom Lincoln came out of his cabin, stopped a neighbor and asked her "to tell the 'granny woman,' Aunt Peggy Walters, that Nancy would need help soon....
"On the morning of February 12, a Sunday, the 'granny woman' was there at the cabin, and she and Tom Lincoln and the moaning Nancy Hanks welcomed into a world of battle and blood, of whispering dreams and wistful dust, a new child, a boy."
Later Tom Lincoln threw some wood on the fire and an extra bearskin on Nancy and went up the road to where Tom and Betsy Sparrow lived. He was met at the door by Dennis Sparrow, an adopted son of nine years of age. On hearing the news, Dennis hurried to the Lincoln cabin where the mother lay "on a bed of poles cleated to a corner of the cabin, under warm bearskins."
"What you goin' to name him, Nancy?" the boy asked.
"Abraham," was the answer, "after his grandfather."
Soon after came Betsy Sparrow, who washed the baby and put on him a linsey shirt and a yellow petticoat, "cooked dried berries with wild honey for Nancy, put the one-room cabin in better order, kissed Nancy and comforted her, and went home."
Dennis and Betsy were there next morning. Dennis asked to hold the baby, who cried, so he handed it to Betsy, saying as he did so, "Aunt, take him! He'll never come to much."
"So came the birth of Abraham Lincoln that twelfth of February in the year 1809?in silence and pain from a wilderness mother on a bed of corn-husks and bearskins?with an early laughing child-prophecy he would never come to much."
The family lived on Knob Creek farm from Abe's third to past his seventh year. At that time the boy walked four miles a day to Knob Creek school to learn to read and write. In 1816 his father was appointed road surveyor. Yet as time went on poor white men were having a harder time to get along. So when Indiana was admitted into the Union as a state, the Lincoln's took note of it, and resolved to move again.
They traveled, coming in time to the Ohio River. And finally Tom Lincoln, his wife, his son and daughter arrived at Little Pigeon Creek, without horse or cow or house. "Naked they came into the world," says Sandburg, "and almost naked they came to Pigeon Creek, Indiana."
Here they faced pioneer life in all its rigors and there they lived for fourteen years. Lincoln's world was a narrow world, but the moon that looks on all things had seen many changes in those days. For one thing, in 1816 it had seen sixteen thousand wagons come along one turnpike in Pennsylvania; up the Mississippi River that year had come the first steamboat to curve into the Ohio River and land passengers at Louisville. Wagons and the iron horse were coming, ingots, iron, steel, were being made in Pennsylvania, and a sheet copper mill was starting in Massachusetts.
A new cabin was built in the new state, and when the early frosts came the Lincoln's moved into it. The children had to walk nine miles to school. Nancy cleaned Abe's ears, where he had failed, and combed the tangle out of his sandy black hair and said: "Abe, you go to school now, and learn all you kin." And he said, "Yes, mammy," and started with his sister through the forest haunted by bear, deer, coon, and wildcats. One day they heard a crash in the timber of horses and wagon and looking out saw Tom and Betsy Sparrow and their seventeen year old boy, Dennis Hanks.
But a year had scarcely passed when Tom and Betsy were taken with the "milk sick," beginning with a tongue coated white. Both died in October, and were buried on a little hill nearby. Then one day Nancy had the burning in "her vitals," and her tongue too was white. Her feet and hands grew cold and her pulse slow. She called her children to her bedside and told Abe he must be good to his sister and father. So on "a bed of poles cleated to the corner of the cabin" like the one on which Abe was born, Nancy lay with the fire of a pioneer mother in her eyes and the pinch of want about her mouth. The children came and cried, "Mammy, Mammy," but there was no reply as their voices faded into silence. Nancy Hanks was dead. At thirty-six years of age the wilderness had claimed her life. Her little son assisted in making the crude coffin and she was laid to rest on the hill beside Tom and Betsy Sparrow.
Note: Further detail may be found in chapters one to twelve of "Abraham Lincoln," by Carl Sandburg.
Questions
1. In what state was Abraham Lincoln born?
2. What were the names of his father and mother?
3. What was his father's reputation?
4. How would you characterize his mother?
5. Describe "little Abe's" first clothes.
6. What is the difference between the way our babies are dressed today and the way "little Abe" was dressed?
7. What would we fear if we dressed our babies that way today?
8. What Christian virtues characterized these early pioneers?
SOCIAL SERVICE
The Spirit Of Service In Industry, published in the October Magazine, will be the Social Service lesson for the fourth week in January, not in December as published, as it is not expected any association will meet so near Christmas.
CHILD GUIDANCE
Lesson IV FEAR
FEAR is perhaps the most common emotion which human beings experience, yet it is extremely doubtful if the child has any inherent fears at birth. Most fears are produced by some experience through which the individual has had to pass in early life. In dealing with children we are very prone to speak of their foolish fears, yet they are foolish and unreasonable to us as adults simply because of our inability to understand how certain experiences have left upon the mind of the child impressions and feelings which govern conduct for a long time. A large number of parents frighten children either as a punishment or as a means of obtaining desired conduct, and perhaps only a very few parents take the fears experienced by their children seriously enough. They do not make inquiry into their cause nor make efforts to eradicate them by careful explanation.
There appear to be two distinct types of fear?what might be called objective and subjective fears. The first are fears of things which can be seen or heard, like animals, policemen, doctors, lightning, guns and high places. The subjective fears are more intangible, and the causes are very hard to find. They are based on the feelings and attitudes of the child to something which he has heard and upon which he has brooded without daring to express his fear.
Objective fears are usually more easily recognized and comparatively easy to overcome. Sometimes the child has forgotten the experience with which the fear was associated in the first place, but if it can be recalled the fear can be taken out of it by a straightforward explanation. Some children are afraid of anything new or strange, but they soon become accustomed to it if they are allowed to do so gradually. It is a mistaken notion that a child should be pushed into a situation where he is afraid in an effort to "train him." A little child who cries at his first experience of bathing in the big ocean is not helped by being thrown in, but on the contrary gets an experience of dread and fear of water which may not be easily overcome.
Fear of animals may occur at a very early age but usually passes off as soon as the child becomes accustomed to the sight of them, unless he has some especially unfortunate experience in being frightened either by the animal itself or by threats that the animal will get him if he is not a good boy. Many children are threatened with the policeman or the "bogie man." Sometimes mother speaks to the ragman and asks him to take a naughty boy away in his bag. It is particularly unfortunate when mothers use a threat of the doctor to frighten their children into obedience, for the time may come when a child's life may depend on a doctor's being able to get him to take treatment without crying or struggling. "The doctor cuts the fingers of little boys who touch things" is not good preparation for such an emergency.
Often fears are due to unpleasant experiences for which the parents are in no way to blame, and may even extend to things which are merely associated with the unpleasant experience. For instance, a child who has been hurt in a doctor's office may be afraid to enter any place which looks like a doctor's office. A book agent, with his black bag, may be a terrifying figure to such a child.
This is a very different thing from fears that are produced in the child's mind by threats, or the fears based on a real situation or by appealing to the child's courage to face his fears bravely. Children quickly adopt the attitude of their parents, be it one of bravery or fear. Many mothers wonder where their children get their fear of lightning or animals, forgetting that they themselves have shown fear when they thought the children were not noticing. Such was the case with little Ellen. Her mother thought the child inherited from her a fear of the dark and everything strange. Ellen would awake screaming at night, saying some one was climbing in at the window. Her mother compared this in the child's hearing to her own fear of being left alone of an evening when she thought every sound meant a lurking marauder. The mother had heard many ghost stories in childhood, and though she denied that she had ever told them to Ellen, she talked quite freely about them in her presence. It is not hard to see where this child's "inherited" fears originated.
If the child develops a fear of loud noises and flashes of light, such as thunder and lightning and firing of guns, he can overcome it only with the help of intelligent suggestion from the parents. He must see from their attitude that there is no occasion for fear. The mother who is terrified by these situations and whose fear is openly demonstrated before the child can be of no assistance to him. Imitation clearly plays an important part in the development and control of fear. This may be seen, for instance, if things go wrong at sea and a ship is in danger. One panic-stricken person may start a stampede for the lifeboats, whereas one calm and fearless officer can quell the impending panic and control the situation.
The subjective fears are very hard to trace back to their cause and to overcome. They are often so vague and intangible that an adult would not dream that a child could be thinking of such things. As Victor Hugo says in his "Recollections of Childhood," "But a thing once said sinks in the mind; that which has struck the brain often, from time to time comes back again, and in the breast of simple infancy lives unexplained full many a mystery."
For example, vague and poorly formulated ideas about death are the basis of more mental anxiety in children than is generally supposed. To one child death meant being buried in a hole, another child had a fear of being buried alive, and many children are disturbed by the line in the evening prayer which is familiar to most children. "If I should die before I wake." It would be impossible to state all the vague fantasies of childhood about this ever-present problem of death, but it should not be difficult to give the average child a conception of death and the hereafter which will do much to allay the common fears surrounding this mystery.
Another common fear which children have is that of being deserted by their parents. This undoubtedly is brought about in many instances by their having been told at some time or other that if they were not good their parents would go away and leave them. Some parents even wrap them up and say they are going to give them away. One mother, who had to go to a hospital for a week's treatment, told her little girl, 3 years old, that she was going out to buy a loaf of bread. The child watched at the window for her mother to come back, and when hour after hour passed she became terrified. Once she was taken past a huge building where she saw her mother in a bathrobe sitting at a window but could not speak to her. Weeks later, when mother was at home and well, this child could not sleep at night fearing that her mother would go away again if she closed her eyes. Fear of being deserted is not often expressed in words but more often in the attitude of the child toward the mother, so that separation, even for a moment, produces an unpleasant scene. A child with this hidden dread may give up games with other children in order to stay close to mother's side, and, even up to the age of 10 or 12, may return home frequently to make sure that mother is there.
Things said in jest may cause great anxiety to a little child. A man, now a college professor, relates how he suffered for weeks in boyhood because some one told him that if he ate bread and molasses, horns would grow on his head. He at once gave up eating that delicacy without explaining to anyone through fear that he would be laughed at. Then he imagined that he had lumps on his forehead. In a frenzy of anxiety he asked his mother if she could feel the horns, and she, thinking it was a part of some game, said, "Yes, I believe I do." The grown man still feels the pain of that experience.
Fear is a driving force in human conduct. It makes us do things; it keeps us from doing them. It protects from danger, and without a reasonable amount of fear mankind could not live. It is useless to talk about eradicating fear, but in training the child every effort should be made to see that fear does not become a curse instead of a means of protection. A child should fear punishment, danger, loss of the approval of those he cares for, and, when he becomes old enough to appreciate it, loss of the approval of his own conscience. He should not have to spend his early years weighed down by fears which make him nervous and sleepless at times, afraid to play happily or work with enthusiasm, all because some one found it convenient to get him to obey through fear or failed to help him by wise understanding and explanation at the right time to get rid of unpleasant experiences.
Problems for Discussion
1. Cite from your own experience examples of fears you suspect were learned by contagion from others in your family. To what extent do you think they are based on genuine danger?
2. What effect on the child's attitude toward you do you suppose using fear as a means of discipline has?
3. How would you go about helping a child to overcome fear of other people (timidity)? How could mutually shared projects, such as group games and toys enjoyed in common re-condition a child so that fear would be replaced by enjoyment in associating with others? Show how unpleasant social experiences might have the opposite effect on the shy child.
4. What would you expect the effect to be on the young child when the mother is constantly anxious and fearful? What would be the likely effect on a child near maturity? Discuss the mental hygiene and significance of "courage is contagious."
5. Why should a child who must go to the dentist and be hurt not be told there is nothing to fear, that it won't hurt? How would you fortify the child against such inevitable experiences?
6. Did Christ teach the Gospel by using primarily love or fear? What do you think this fact has had to do with the great influence Christianity has had over mankind?