An Appreciation By Dessie Grant Boyle lections is of my fifth birthday. My mother put a new dress on me, made my curls and tied them with a new blue ribbon, sat me on her lap and said, "Now you are getting to be such a big girl that Iam going to tell you a great secret." After explaining what a secret is she told me my real name was not "'Pattie Harris" but Dessie Grant, and that "Uncle Eli" was my father. I AM father's fifth daughter and the oldest child of my mother? Emily Wells. I was born after father was made an apostle and during the years when raids and persecutions were being waged against the general authorities because of plural marriage. For this reason it. Was necessary for mother to live away from home until I was six years old, and for our identity to be kept a secret. As I look back on those first years of mother's married life and think of how timid she was, how she loved home and family, I marvel that she ever endured being away. I think there were three things that made it possible for her to be cheerful and reasonably happy. They were, her great faith that everything would work out for the best and that she was doing right; her keen sense of humor that made her an optimist and able to laugh at the inevitable; and greatest of all, her love - for, and confidence in father. She knew that he did everything he could to make her life as easy as possible. She felt always that what he did was right and that as long as he lived everything' would be well with her and with us. And it was. The recollections of father's and mother's life together and their influence upon my life are among my happiest and most sacred memories. I have far too many blessings to count them, but I feel sure that my two greatest are my testimony and my parents. Father has been the strongest influence in my life, first through my mother, who kept him ever before us when we were young, and later through my intimate associations with him. The fact that we lived away and seldom saw father leaves me with no childish remembrance of him. He never played or romped with us, or told us stories, or carried us on his back to bed. Mother did these things. But he was nevertheless an influence in our lives from our earliest childhood. I BELIEVE my first consciousness of him is of his great generosity and that he liked to make lots of 'people happy. The first Christmas I can remember we were living in Southern Colorado, many miles from the railroad. It was difficult to send things there, and, I suppose, very expensive. But one day shortly before Christmas a wagon stopped in front of our house,?an event did you say? Mother said she only saw two strange wagons all the time we lived there and this was one of them. A man got out of the wagon and began unloading boxes, sacks, barrels and packages. There were oranges and bananas?great delicacies for that day,?there were apples and candy, nuts and raisins. There were lovely dolls and toys and new dresses and a seal skin coat for mother. The most AN APPRECIATION thrilling things imaginable! This arrival of things from father not only completely changed our Christmas but that of all the people in the town, for they were all invited to share with us. There was plenty for everyone. SOON after this, Grandpa Wells died. Although it was taking a great chance father let us come home to live. Thus we ended our days on the "underground." I had only seen him a few times, but burned into my childish consciousness were the truths that father was the most generous, kindest, most considerate father any little girls ever had, and that he would do anything, or make any sacrifice for the good of his family. This was because he loved us so much, and we must never do anything to make him sorry or ashamed of us. MY sisters and I were young when mother died, but one of the things she bequeathed to us was her great love for father and her belief that he was a tower of strength to lean upon in times of sorrow or trouble. We already knew this, but her death brought it forcibly before us. ~We looked back upon her long, sad illness with the realization that father had not left one stone unturned to bring peace, comfort and ease to her, nor to us. HIS example of how to act in time of sorrow was the greatest possible comfort and help to us. We 673 were proud to be his children and partook of his love, faith and courage. He has taught us to love life, but not to fear death; to be happy even in the face of trials and to make our Heavenly Father our best Friend. He has given us every educational advantage: schools, travel, pictures, books, music, plays. Busy as he has always been, he has never been too busy to plan for our welfare, and that of his grandchildren, great grandchildren, his close and distant relatives and his friends. He has always listened with an understanding heart to our troubles and has helped us out of them. As I have grown in years and faith and understanding I stand amazed at father's accomplishments. I could tell of his honesty and fairness, his courage and fearlessness. I could tell of his gentleness, his great humility and his abiding faith, of the wonderful example he is to his family and his Church. Or I might tell of his work for the dead or his life as a great missionary. But it seems to me that the thing that will be said of him as he stands before his Maker to be judged will be, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast kept My two Great Commandments. Thou hast loved the Lord, thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself."  These pages contain the inscription that President Grant wrote in the volume of the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants that he presented to his daughter Rachel and her husband. They reveal his beautiful character, his great love for the Scriptures, his testimony of their divinity, the comfort and joy he gets from perusing them. Thousands of books has he inscribed with helpful messages.