GENERAL SESSION
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THERE are but three types of government which have been developed in the history of civilization. The centralization of power has invariably produced the dictator and ended in tyranny. The decentralization of power, when pushed to the extreme, has been inefficient and ended in anarchy. The organized balancing of powers is the result of mankind's efforts to find a workable plan that will keep power centralized enough to achieve efficiency without tyranny, and decentralized enough to achieve freedom without anarchy. This was the plan chosen by our American forefathers and charted by the Constitution of the United States.
During the Revolution a common danger united the States. When this, however, came to a close, it must not be supposed that our national life was secured. It is far more correct to say that the most critical period of our country's history embraced the time from 1783 to the adoption of the Constitution in 1789. After much opposition and debate Congress finally invited the States to send delegates, and in May, 1787, the Constitutional Convention held its meetings in that plain brick building in Philadelphia from which the Declaration of Independence was published to the world. There were fifty-five men assembled in this remarkable group. Benjamin Franklin, then eighty-one years of age, was one of Pennsylvania's delegates, and at his suggestion George Washington was made Chairman of the Convention. On September 17, 1787, the Constitutional Convention adjourned, on the 20th of September Congress received this Document accompanied by a letter from Washington. It was submitted to the States for ratification, but took two years to obtain the approval of enough States to put the Constitution into effect.
The formation of the Constitution of the United States was one of the most important events in history. It gave to mankind the first adequate type of government by the people, capable of being extended to the greatest of nations, and established the union of the states upon a foundation on which was actually reared this mighty nation of ours. It is "We, the people" who ordain this Constitution quite as much today as it was in 1789, for the Constitution of the United States is the fundamental laws or principles of government by which the people of this nation agree to be governed, resting, as it does, upon the principles that all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed.
George Washington said, "The basis of our political system is the right of the people to make and to alter their constitution or government," and Lord Bryce added: "The American Constitution has stood unbroken because it has submitted to a process of constant, though scarcely perceptible change, which has adapted it to the conditions and need of each new age." It is the greatest contribution of the Anglo-Saxon people to the science and practice of government.
TALK Counselor Kate M. Barker
IN the spirit of service, a group of women in Nauvoo asked the Prophet Joseph Smith if they might be organized that they might serve better. He answered that he had a plan for a woman's organization much greater than any they had in mind. Having effected the organization, he said, "I now turn the keys for you in the name of God." Thus the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet of the Lord for the development of the women of the Church and through inspiration the outline of the work was given by an all wise Father. The Prophet said, "If you live up to these principles how great and glorious! If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Do the women of the Church believe this? If so what should one expect in the way of active co-operation and loyalty? Yet this is a report from one stake which is rather typical of all? L. D. S. Families........1140 Membership in Relief Society... 500 Average attendance.................. 195 We are living in an age where we need the value that alone can come from regular and sincere worship and from a fellowship where love and service prevail. We are living in an age when an organization such as the Relief Society needs its whole strength. There is need for a planned and strong eftort on the part of the faithful members? carried on in the spirit of love?to give each woman of the Church the joy and opportunity which active membership offers, and greater power to the group. ? How shall we enlist their interest and support? We can make known the time and place of meetings, special events and activities, and we can make known the message of Relief Society. We must recognize that our organization is judged by the character and attitude of its members. If we are filled with enthusiasm, if we are regular in attendance, if we hold our heads high, if we come from our meetings as though we had been somewhere, if we feel and act as though it was a great honor to belong, if in our living we show we are better and happier for belonging, then we clothe the organization in the greatness it deserves. We must bring the Relief Society into such a commanding position that all women will feel the power of its unity and love. The finest kind of advertising is the personal word. It is through such personal testimonies that our 716 Church has grown. Let us appeal to the hearts of the women, to their loyalties to an organization with such a rich heritage of sacrifice and service! Let us appeal to their sense of fairness?it was organized for them ?they are adult women of the Church. Let us appeal to their loyalty to their Father in Heaven who organized it for them! But after these appeals?if we reach them?can we make our organization so effective that we strike still deeper roots of loyalty. Loyalty which endures is the loyalty which comes from having a hunger of the soul satisfied. The hunger for friendship is one of the deepest longings of the human soul?friendship which lasts through sorrow and joy?such a friendship as missionaries develop under the influence of the spirit and in a common devotion to the highest ideals of service. The Relief Society has all the opportunities for developing such friendship. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Another fundamental need of the soul is for spiritual food. One teacher can take facts, and they appear cold and lacking in inspiration, another takes the same facts and by spiritual insight makes them mean gloriously, so that they put worth, dignity, joy, hope and faith into life. It is in this spiritual interpretation of all our educational courses that the Relief Society stands supreme among woman's organizations. It is such teaching that makes possible the satisfying of another soul hunger?that of service?of longing to do something for some one. Such service is a fundamental part of Relief Society. If we can get the women to just once taste the joy of such service the roots of loyalty will go deep enough to hold. (Elder Melvin J. Ballard's address will be published in a later issue of the Magazine. ) ADDRESS James H. McClintock, Director in Charge of Finance, American Red Cross I ASSURE you I esteem it the greatest personal honor of my life to stand in this place. Certainly it is something I never expected to do. At our luncheon this noon we had the pleasure of the presence of your President, even on this busy day. I am glad to have this chance to return her call, and to extend to you in your work the warmest greetings and the profound appreciation from the American Red Cross for the great support and cooperation which we have always had from this great Church, and particularly from your organization. We deal with common problems, and we have learned to admire profoundly the success with which you are carrying on your great achievements. I am going to say just a personal thing as I stand in this place. I am not a fan who writes letters, and I never dreamed I would have the opportunity to stand here and express for myself, and thousands of others, the appreciation for that one great program of all the week that comes from this place. I believe the people who listen to that are not the kind who write letters, and I want to speak for myself and for them, and thank all you who have any part in it for something which, if nothing else, justifies the radio. Again my warmest greetings and best wishes.  ADDRESS Louise Y. Robison, President GHORTLY before his death, President Anthony W. Ivins made an impressive address at a Priesthood meeting. It seems an excellent standard for all Latter-day Saints by which to measure their own lives. May I read the opening paragraph of this sermon: "T was thirteen years of age when I was ordained as Elder in the Church, I can never forget how seriously the responsibility which came to me at that time was impressed upon my mind. I remember thinking that. I could no longer be my own self, this mortal boy that I was, thinking very much of things that concerned me; that I could not talk as I talked when I was myself, but that I must submerge myself in the Church, because it seemed to me upon accepting this responsibility that I was in a sense, a very modest sense, of course, the Church. I was a part of it. I thought to myself, if I do an idle thing, people will see in that the fruits of the Church of which I am a member. If I say improper things they will take the same view of what I say. I must live, I must speak, and I must act as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That impression has never left me. As I grew older, and other responsibilities came to me, that first deep impression always returned." I have been wondering what membership in the Church means to each of us today. Has it changed our manner of life? Has the joy of service and sharing, come to members of Relief Society? Our Heavenly Father is ever giving us opporutnities to prove ourselves, to learn if the Gospel of Jesus Christ has made us stronger in overcoming temptation; if we have greater faith to sustain us in defeat and to inspire us to further endeavors; if it has given us the power of patience, of endurance and the 'assurance of final victory. Within the last six months the Authorities of the Church have in- ? troduced a wonderful plan for the development of all the members of the Church ? those who have an abundance of material interests, those who are in moderate circumstances, and those whose burdens are too heavy to carry alone. The benefit will come to each individual just in proportion to the acceptance of the plan. The voice of the Savior is speaking to each one of us today?not alone to the rich young man in the parable?but to those who have little and to those who have nothing?the challenge is as great as it is to the wealthy. In the Church Security Plan there is an opportunity for each person to follow the Master. The Relief Societies all over the Church are to be congratulated upon the response made to the call of the General Authorities of the Church. In some Stakes the Y. W. M. 1. A., the Primary and the Relief Society have worked together, and the result is marvelous. We hear these glorious reports from most of the Stakes of the Church. Many have worked beyond their strength during the past few months, but the establishment of any great movement calls for valiant workers. Those who have made the greatest effort are those who have and will receive the greater blessing. This is ever true. The word of the Lord never fails.. There are many other opportuni- 718 ties given for our advancement, in all of them the same rule holds good. The Relief Society Ward President, or other officer who questions the advice of her Stake President, and who thinks her way of conducting affairs of the Society is superior, always defeats her purpose. I never remember one such officer developing or being called to a higher position. Class leaders who condemn the type of lesson prepared by those who are called to do that work, after careful and prayerful study, never have really successful classes. It is cooperation which brings success? criticism always brings unhappiness and failure. Dr. Ashley Day Leavitt says: "Not until in the midst of work to be done a man has said, "This is my task'; not until in the face of a problem has he said, "This is my opportunity'; not until in the great field of life, which is the field of religion, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he has said, "This is my cause'; has his soul come to life." May we live in the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that we shall be able to feel and say, as the Prophet of old, "O God, thou art my God." Then peace will come, no matter what the conflict in the world; then joy and happiness, development and eternal progress will be ours. At the close of our conference, I want to tell you how much we have appreciated your presence here. Although we have worked hard this Summer, we are never weary, for it is in the service of humanity. We are working for the Savior, and His promise is sure, that He will make our burdens light and our yokes easy. May you have this experience that your testimony may be developed I humblv pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.