The Book of Mormon x The September issue of the Magazine emphasizes the centenary of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, but we hope that in practically every issue during the year something may appear to expand the knowledge and emphasize the worth of this volume. We chanced to be in England during the tercentenary of the publication of the King James edition of the English Bible. Everything that the British nation could do to emphasize that fact was done. Special editions of the Bible were on display in the British Museum and at a special ceremony the king was presented with a beautiful edition of the Bible bound in royal blue. At Albert Hall addresses were made by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the British Premier, the American Ambassador to Great Britain, and other speakers of note. All this was highly appropriate and 'most' fitting. We shall do well to emulate their example and in every way that can be devised show forth the glories and the beauties of this precious book that was delivered to us by the hands of an angel from God. We congratulate the Mutual Improvaiient Association on its Sunday evening session that has been produced in the EDITORIAL 491 convention conference in many stakes, already. It is highly appropriate. It is in all probability sowing the seeds for something either in drama or pageantry that will in days to come characterize the Church as being the inspiration of great and notable art. The Relief Society Magazine wishes to do "its bit" in furthering this great work. - A Poet's Message Sara Teasdale is very greatly, and very rightly, much beloved by persons who read English poetry. We know that she is enjoyed by our readers for many of the members of the Relief Society, at various times and on various occasions, have told us so. One of her poems entitled "Barter," has an especially beautiful message, so beautiful we think, that it is worthy of discussion in our editorial columns. BARTER Life has loveliness to sell— All beautiful and splendid things, Blue waves whitened on a cliff, Climbing fire that sways and sings, And children's faces looking up Holding wonder like a cup. Life has loveliness to sell— Music like a curve of gold, Scent of pine trees in the rain, Eyes that love you, arms that hold, And for your spirit's still delight, Holy thought that star the night. Spend all you have for loveliness, Buy it and never count the cost; For one white singing hour of peace Count many a year of strife well lost. And fer a breath of ecstasy Give all you have been or could be. While. The entire poem is essentially good and beautiful, we would draw attention in particular to one or two lines. Little children are pretty generally a source of delight. All who have and know little children, realize what an ever present joy they are. A few days ago a young man who had put his baby in bed, came back saying, '""My! A father does get a thrill 
 when he tucks a child in bed." The upturned face of a child is beautiful as the tender little thoughts of its soul appear. Sara Teasdale knows this and asks us all to think about it, that we may the better know that "children's faces looking up," do hold "wonder like a cup." Continuing she says: Spend all you have for lovliness. Buy it and never count the cost; Tor one white, singing hour of peace, Count. Many a year of strife well lost. Her admonition is in line with the sage advice that we do good for evil, banish strife by imparting peace. é A No-Tobacco League The No-Tobacco League of America has just closed a convention held at Winona Lake, Indiana. It reports that over three thousand were present and states that in the various sessions held were people enrolled from twenty-two states, four provinces of Canada, Australia, China and Japan. Also that Professor F. M. Gregg, head of the Department of Psychology of Nebraska Wesleyan University, was re-elected president and Charles M Fillmore, Indianapolis, was elected general secretary for his eighth year. There certainly has never been a time in the memory of man when a No-Tobacco League was as necessary as it is at the present time. It is regrettable in the extreme to have men smoking. Few things have ever caused some of us to feel more sorrowful than the fact that throughout the world many men of importance and real standing use tobacco. And now, added to this comes a new fad for smoking cigarettes that has been all too generally adopted by women. In the light of our progress in science, in the art of making comfortable habitations, it is a sorry commentary that these up-to-date homes are often vitiated not alone by smoke exhumed from cigars and cigarettes in the mouths of men, but now in this new age in the mouths of mothers, wives and daughters. It is high time that people who appreciate the gravity and depravity of this practice should combine to stop its growth and do as much as possible to eradicate the practice. God speed the No-Tobacco League in its good work.