[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Hansen]
Rewarding Sime Elsie Sim Hansen HILE waiting impatiently \Xy for a bus one crisp autumn morning, a red and orange maple leaf came floating gently down from the maple tree across the street, and for a few brief seconds it paused on the brim of my brown felt hat. "What a delightful trimming," a pert, little, gray-haired lady standing beside me said, as she carefully removed the leaf and held it in her hand. I smiled and nodded briefly, and then again became absorbed in my thoughts. "It's beautiful isn't it?" "What?" I asked absent-mindedly. "This leaf I have in my hand. A person would never suspect that these rich autumn hues were present in this leaf all summer, but were so dominated by the green of the chlorophyll in the leaf that they could not be seen. Now for a short period of time we have been permitted to enjoy these gorgeous colors before the tree discarded the leaf," she remarked, glancing up into my face to see if I was listening. "How interesting, and also how depressing," I said, surprised into answering by the elderly lady's knowledge. Encouraged by my remark, she rejoiced. "It really isn't depressing at all. It is merely fulfilling the measure of its creation." "Yes, I suppose so, but I dislike to see the leaves and flowers turn brown and die every fall, as if nature no longer had any interest in the earth." "That is because you do not understand. Instead of nature losing interest, it is quietly preparing the earth for a newness of life. Instead of autumn being a period when some people feel sad, it should be a time of great rejoicing," she said, her face lighting like a child's. "Perhaps you are right, but to me spring always has, and always will be the most refreshing and delightful time of the year," I stated emphatically. The woman smiled a warm, comforting smile, and then said, "That is because you are young. Spring is for youth. It is a period of beginnings. But to older people, the autumn may seem a rewarding time. With the coming of the fall, we receive just payment for all the efforts we have put forth. If we have made thorough preparation during the preceding months, our harvest is bountiful."