[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
Notes TO THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned &vening Mleeting of Fast Sunday in ITlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 1, 1959, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. A suggestive program for this meeting has been sent to the stakes in pamphlet form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops lmmediately to arrange for this meeting. Suggested songs for the Singing Mothers are: "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings," by Liddle; "The Lord's Prayer," by Gates, or "The Lord's Prayer," by Malotte. If music is not available in your local stores, it may be purchased from music dealers advertising in this issue of the Magazine. Suwate, Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have becn audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the ycar 1958 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1959. Bound Volume of 1958 Tlagazines ELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1958 issues of The Relicf Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 70.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.80, including the index. A limited number of the 1958 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1958 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Page 34 No, Thank You! Tum First ANp Grear DEcIsIONn rcererem Ail:: Be Honest with Yourself HEN once we have charted our course, and have decided on a lifetime goal, the results of which are even more far-reaching, even into the unlimited boundaries of eternity — then all the small decisions that must be made each day are but the unit building stones in the structure of our lives. Fach accessory decision becomes, with practice, almost automatic, and requires less and less weighing of alternate possibilities. It is the solving of the first problem, and the setting of our direction that is most important. 'The realization that our bodies are the temples of our spirits, and that they arc most precious to us, leads us to a desire to keep them as beautiful and as healthy as may be within our power. It is true, as must be known to us, if we are observing, that all are not given equally strong bodies to begin with, but all of us can try to maintain the strength and vigor which is originally given to us, and in many cases we can greatlv increase that health and energy by obeying the laws of well-being — instructions which are simple and plain in their implications and in their purpose. The cultivated lands, and even the untilled earth, provide for us a great abundance of wholesome food and drink. Recall the gold expanse of wheatfields, reaching to far horizons; the orchards bending with a harvest of fruit; the garden rows in green splendor. 'Think of autumn and the squash and pumpkins heaped high, corn drying in the sunlight, apples ready for the frozen months of winter. Perhaps we should think more often of "Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving.... All grain is ordained for the use of man... To be the staff of life. All grain is good for the food of man." (D & C 89: 11, 14). It is our privilege and our blessing to rejoice in the richness of the earth and to select the foods and the drinks that will make our bodies strong and beautiful. We should be able to say "No, thank you!" for it is not a characteristic of wisdom nor an attribute of happiness, to barter the lasting blessings, and the great rejoicing, for some temporary compliance with the offerings of those who do not know of the discipline and the promise. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF! Page 35 Recipes olfom the California Nlisston Submitted by Alta H. Taylor HE Southland, comprising the California Mission, is truly a melting pot, with many nationalities living in the area. No matter where one's homeland may be, he can find his native foods being featured attractively in many restaurants. Because of this mingling of peoples, there are no dishes typical of the mission. In this land of sunshine, sca foods, fresh fruits, vegetables, and nuts abound in all seasons. Within the boundaries of the mission, are centers for the production of some of these foods. Indio is the date center of the world, with grapes and citrus fruits also being produced on a alrge scale. The area around Fallbrook, Vista, and Escondido is famous for avocados, fruits, and vegetables. The recipes we have selected as representative of the California Mission feature these foods we enjoy in such abundance. Fruit SALAD 2 c. Fresh pineapple (diced) 1 ¢. Miniature marshmallows 1 c. Fresh orange sections 1 c. Commercial sour cream 1 c. Shredded coconut Prepare fruit, drain, and chill. Just before serving, combine quickly with soured cream. (Canned pineapple chunks and canned mandarin sections may be substituted for fresh fruit.) PrcaNn PIE 3 eggs "2 ¢. Sugar (scant) 7 C. Pecans 1 c. White syrup 1 tsp. Vanilla Whisk eggs lightly, don't beat. Add vanilla, nuts, sugar, and syrup. Pour into unbaked crust. Bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees, reduce to 350 for 30 minutes. Frozen Lemon DESSERT 1 c. Crushed vanilla wafers 2 tbsp. Butter (melted) 2 tbsp. Sugar Combine and press into refrigerator tray. Reserve some for the top. Filling: 1 15-ounce can of sweetened condensed milk "2 ¢. Lemon juice 7, tsp. Almond flavoring 1 tsp. Grated rind 2 eggs, separated Beat egg yolks until thick, add to milk, stir in lemon juice and rind, add flavoring. Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold into milk mixture. Pour into tray and freeze. BROILED AVOCADOS Choose medium-sized avocados, peel, and quarter them. Make a filling of diced ham, shrimp, or crab meet, combined with chopped celery and hard boiled eggs. Moisten with mayonnaise or white sauce. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and broil 2 minutes, or until] crumbs are browned. Spicep Nuts Mix together in saucepan: 1 Cc. Sugar ¥/, c. Diluted canned milk / tsp. Cinnamon Page 36 RECIPES FROM THE CALIFORNIA MISSION 37 Boil until a soft ball forms in cold water. Remove from fire and add 1 c. Nuts (almonds, walnuts, or pecans), 1 tsp. Vanilla. Turn gently until well coated. Pour onto wax paper and break into pieces. 7s Y, > a NY FS WN OraNnGE Date Nut Breap C. Orange juice "4 tsp. Salt c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder c. Chopped dates "2 tsp. Soda tbsp. Melted shortening 1 Cc. Sugar tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Chopped nuts beaten egg 1% tbsp. Grated orange peel c. Sifted flour Pour orange juice in bowl and add hot water. Add beaten egg, melted shortening, dates, and vanilla. Then add the dry ingredients which have been sifted together. Beat well and stir in chopped nuts and orange peel. Bake in loaf tin at 350 degrees for one hour. O«~ip-e Deserted Si arm Yard Maude Rubin Their red boards dulled by the brush of years, The barn doors idle on rusted hinges; The creek runs free through fallen weirs, The water-wheel stilled. When carmine tinges The western sky, six half-grown quail Follow their mother out of the grass— Their sheltered lee near the old fence rail— And pecking briskly while shadows mass, Finish their peaceful meal... No cock-crow wakes Next morning's hush. No lowering call; No milk-pail swings; on the cedar shakes White frost; empty the old corral Only the creak of the old red doors Reminds me again of morning chores. ~>- HANDY HINT Use a tail or wing feather of a chicken or waterfowl to clean lint from the sewing machine. — Mabel S. Cordon You Can Sew, = (Bound Buttonholes Jean R. Jemiings O you always shy away from making bound _ buttonholes, even though you know they are the best kind of closing for the dress or suit you want to make? Many women do so, feeling that they are too hard to make or too much trouble. Bound buttonholes need not be a stumbling block in your dressmaking. With this new casy and sure method, it is possible to have professional buttonholes every time. Remember, though, that this is possible only when care is taken to have absolute accuracy at all times. Some garments lend themselves to the use of bound buttonholes more than others. They are hard to mike successfully in fabrics that have a loose or open weave. Nor are they successful in dresses that are to be laundered repeatedly. The agitation of washing tends to cause the corners to fray out. Make them in fabrics that will not find their way to the washing machine. Practice making your buttonholes in a sample of material until you are sure of yourself and know how to do them right. Never try making them the first time on the garment itself, for you cannot do them over to correct any mistakes. The section of the garment in which the buttonholes are to be made should be reinforced. The interfacing on a jacket front is not always satisfactory for this purpose. Such interfacings as tailor's canvas and pelon are too stiff. It is better to use a strip of fine muslin or cotton wigan underneath the buttonholes to reinforce and support them. Page 38 SO T = CENTER pane cn mom comm ab Cub ame ease wee wee oe Oe Oe eo ow eee oO FIGURE 1 LOCATION LINES FOR BUTTONITOLES Tue First Strep After the backing has been basted in place, mark on it two parallel lines indicating the length of the buttonholes. 'Transfer these to the right side by stitching over them with machine basting in a contrasting thread. Cross the parallel lines with location lines as illustrated in Figure 1.