[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: No]
Four dry lakes and Blue Lake nearby gave the town its name. Xk kk S the bus rolled along, LaRue strained her eyes for a glimpse of the valley. It was hard to believe that somewhere — behind the weird arrangement of pink and yellow cliffs, a lush, summertime land of blue lakes and fertile fields would appear. There were miles and miles of barren land to which gray tufts of grass clung stubbornly. She studied the wind-etched patterns in an ocean of sand, and wondered why Amelia had longed to go back to Arizona. As the bus crossed the miles of arid Indian Reservation country, she studied the rude hogans of the ancient peoples, and wondered that they could survive on sand and sun. LaRue was glad she did not have to stay in Arizona! Then, suddenly, the valley appeared, cupped between towering mountains. She could scarcely believe her eyes. She thought, amazedly: It's like those desert plants I've read about — lifting their heads to blossom when the rain has passed. No wonder Amelia had found it a good place to live! Yet, even as she made this small concession to her sister's judgment, LaRue could not accept the valley 26 as her own. The pastry-like contours of the hills made her think of a cake — baked eons before — to mse on one side and fall on the other, as if the oven had been imperfect. She saw yucca and Joshua trees that looked like odd-shaped Marsmen. 'There were saguaro and tall, straight cacti which looked like the pipes of an organ. In some places they were actually planted to form a sort of fence. There were small, spiny cacti crouched menacingly among gray boulders as if waiting to spring out upon the unwary. She saw tiny green lizards slithering into the sand to escape the turning wheels. She did not see, but her vivid imagination painted in_ her mind, pictures of tarantulas and Gila monsters. LaRue shivered again. Homesickness tugged at her like a leather thong. The beauty and fascination of San Francisco rose in her memory and she could almost smell the Pacific breezes, almost hear the roar of the skyscraper canyons. She knew with uneasy clarity that she could never make this oasis in Arizona her home! When the bus rolled into the station, she wanted to keep her seat and return to the Coast. But her baggage — one suitcase and an overnight bag — was being unloaded by a _ rough-looking, scragglybearded young man in a plaid shirt and Levis. He saw her staring at his face, and grinned, scratching his thin beard. "You'll see a lot of 'em, Lady. Every man around here is getting ready for the Founding Festival. By the time it rolls around, I'll have one of the best beards in the county!" He whistled as he set her bags inside the station. When her bus disappeared in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 LaRue _ followed The station was unpretentious. 'There was a_ cafe with green plastic-covered counter. There were Mexican and Indian dolls with intricately decorated costumes, ranged on shelves. Aztec gods glowered down at her from brass and tin masks, and she remembered that Fivelakes was close to the Mexican border. On the walls she saw murals of pink and orange cliffs which reminded her of castles and fortresses. As the one or two fellow passengers disappeared ito waiting cars, LaRue realized that no one had come to meet her. Panic seized her. It had been almost two weeks since she'd written Herb that she would come. She had not heard from him. Could all of them be ill? Or moved away? Or.. Something was surely wrong. Muted distance, her bags. HE looked out of the window at the road which ran hike a gray artery into the town of Fivelakes. 'The highway was being widened. From where she stood it seemed that the town would surely be gobbled up by the machines which sent clouds of acrid dust into the air. The chugging of scoop-shovels, the pounding of rollers beat dully into the cafe. She gazed through the brilliance of the blazing sun, and her head ached. The man behind the counter — bearded, frightening almost, in his western garb — watched her quietly. When he spoke, she jumped. "Get you a cab, Lady?" At her nod he went to phone. "Be here in a minute," he assured her lazily, running his fingers through his dark beard. "Raising this beard for the Founding Festival," he explained smilingly. THE SILVER LEASH She thought it was awful, but she didn't say so. She wasn't really interested in the festival. She'd read about such things. 'There'd be a Kangaroo Court, of course, in the middle of town, where frontier justice would be handed out. Women would wear the traditional swirling skirts of their Mexican neighbors, or the traditional sunbonnets of the pioneers. It would be a fiesta! He taxi, which had been a spinning, orange fleck in the distance, arrived at last in a cloud of dust. The driver put LaRue's bags into the back. When she gave him Herbert Vetterlv's address he stared at her in frank amazement. "Why, you're the sister Mrs. Vetterly talked about! You're not a bit like her. Your hair is red." H[e amended quickly, "I mean, auburn." LaRue laughed. Freckles," she said, and was glad that wide-spaced gray-blue eyes, dark brows, and long, dark lashes, compensated for the row of freckles across her nose. Amelia used to call them "sun-kisses." Oddly enough, she hadn't thought of the word for years! 'The taxi lurched back towards the town, the driver skillfully avoiding loose gravel and hot oil. He chatted easily. "Mrs. Vetterly was a very fine woman. She worked in the Church, in Relief Society. She belonged to the Gencalogical Society. She was very proud of her family and of the fact she was a Harding." "I know very little about the Hardings," answered LaRue weakly. She thought, I know so little about my sister. Even her taxi driver knew more! "Red hair and 27 LaRue could remember Amelia, as she had been seventeen years before, when she left Aunt Mettie's to marry Herb. But all the years between were closed to LaRue. Trying to see Amelia's face as it had been during later years, was like looking at the wrong side of the negative, misty, blurred. I'm a Harding, she thought confusedly, yet not one of them at all! She tried to shake away the feeling that she was just a pinprick of personality, with no beginning, no end, floating aimlessly into a place called Fivelakes. 'The driver was explaining how the town had got its name. "Four of the lakes dry up during the summer."" He pointed. "But Blue Lake is deep and clear, fine for swimming and fishing." It lay like a silver tureen in the distance. He advised LaRue, smilingly: "Stay for the Founding Festival and see some fun!" LaRue smiled politely. But her mind refused to think of remaining so long. 'Vhe driver was still giving her a tourist's glimpse of the valley. "Over there, just under the shadow of Coyote Peak is the Lawson Dairy Farm. Frank and Ellen Lawson are wonderful people. 'Uhey've adopted five children. Now they are expecting one of their own." ARUE looked at the neat, white buildings outlined against the gray of the mountain, and smiled. But again her mind turned down the possibility that the Lawson farm would ever — could ever — mean anything to her! On one side of the highway the land rose in a rolling knoll, topped by a very old, yet dignified house. LaRue had a queer feeling that she 28 had seen it before. 'Then she realized that she was probably remembering it because Amelia had talked about it. It was two stories high, with small attic windows. 'There were wide, comfortable porches, and so much gingerbread trim that LaRue thought of gingerbread cookies. The driver saw that she was interested and explained, "It's almost one hundred years old. The oldest house in the valley. It used to belong to one of the Hardings. But now it belongs to Clyde Rutherford. Everyone calls him "Grandie,' because he's Dr. Alan Rutherford's grandfather. He does not live in the old house. It's for sale. Grance lives with the aid of a day-housekeeper in that small red-brick cottage nearby." They had passed the old house, but LaRue could still see it raising its proud old head to look out over the valley. It had belonged to a Harding, and for that reason she promised herself that someday she would see it close up. The taxi turned abruptly into a tree-lined street and stopped before a neatly kept white bungalow with maroon trim. 'The driver took LaRue's bags from the car and put them on the porch. 'Then he touched his cap, and the taxi disappeared around a corner. LaRue stood there, feeling strange, awkward. Was no one expecting her? She put out her finger to reach the doorbell, but before she pushed it, a small girl with flying brown braids, came racing from the back yard, followed by a tan and white dog. She stood there, her hands loosely clasped behind her, her large, blue eyes wide open, curious. 'The dog sniffed at LaRue's red sandals. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 After a long, embarrassing scrutiny, the child spoke. "Are you my Aunt LaRue?" Then, as LaRue managed a smile and a nod, she added critically: "You don't look at all like my Mommy looked!" LaRue swallowed nervously. Must be Connie?" She held out her hand. But the "You child did not move to take it. She called to the dog. "Come here, Atlast." At LaRue's frank look of puzzlement, she explained: "He was a stray. Daddy let me keep him. So I have a dog — at last!" LaRue smiled. One?" Connie did not answer, just opened the screen and beckoned LaRue inside. "Where is every- "Daddy can't walk," she said simply. LaRue found the house neat, comfortable, with the bedrooms on one side of a long hall, the living rooms on the other. She looked around. So this is where my sister lived, she thought painfully, these are the things she touched. Her heart was heavy with questions. How many times did Amelia's hands polish this furniture? How many times did her laughter ring through these quict rooms? CONNIE was tugging at her sleeve. They went into the living room. At fs LaRue thought it was empty. Then a man with wide shoulders, very dark, crisp hair, rolled his chair from the shadows, and she saw Herbert Vetterly for the first time. Hus dark eyes, sunken with pain and distress, surveyed her carefully. It was a moment be- THE SILVER LEASH fore he put out his hand. "Amelia would be glad to know that you have come." He tried to hide it, but LaRue caught a tense criticism in Herb's voice. She wanted to make him understand. Wanted to make him know those long, busy years with the aunt who had taken the place of her mother. But they were over. No need to speak of them now. Perhaps some other time. ARUE was aware that someone else had entered the room. She turned. For an instant she thought it was Amelia. The same soft pale hair, the same lovely blue eyes. "How are you Aunt LaRue?" asked the girl, and LaRue knew her to be Erma. She would have put out her arms, but Erma's blue eyes were unfriendly, her tone distant. LaRue kept her arms at her sides. Then Joel came in. He was tall, dark like his father. "Tll take your bags, Aunt LaRue," he said politely. His coolness chilled his aunt. He went out upon the porch, came back with her bags swinging easily from his large hands. He carried them to one of the bedrooms. LaRue stood there awkwardly. Herb pushed his chair back into the shadows. Erma moved out of the room. Joel left the bedroom door ajar. He tweaked one of Connie's 29 brown braids and she followed him out. "Perhaps you'd like to unpack," said Herb from the shadows. LaRue crossed the hall, feeling the temporary briefness of her unwelcome visit. I'll only stay a little while, she told herself, swallowing hurt, angry tears. Yet she did not blame any of them for not wanting her. She knew by the daintiness of the curtains and furniture that this had been Erma's room. She had moved, no doubt, into Connie's room. LaRue felt more than ever the intruder. She decided to unpack only the most necessary things. Almost surreptitiously she hung one or two of her cotton frocks in the empty clothes closet. Her hands shook as she put her handkerchiefs into an empty drawer and a small, amber cut-glass bottle, with a tiny golden cap. Her movements were unsteady as she unscrewed the cap. 'The fragrance of white carnations flooded the room. Amelia had given LaRue the pretty bottle the day she had left for Fivelakes. The words she had said, then, were engraved on LaRue's mind: "... So you'll never forget me, darling, and always remember that love is everlasting...." (To be continued) - Oieccenee June N. Ashton The wind, Sweeping, swirling, Raising dunes of powder Across lonely prairies of snow Ceases. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1899 "For tHE Ricurs or THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY IN OMAHA, NEBRASKA: I Sister Jane S. Richards expressed her joy and satisfaction in being present.. Referred to the time when the society was organized with but a few members, in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then they endured many hardships... Subsequently finding a peaceful home in the valleys of the mountains where the society was reorganized by President Brigham Young and has spread and grown until now a society is found in almost every branch and ward of the Church, numbering in all about thirty thousand. Sister Richards said Sister Zina D. Tf. Young who now presides over the society in all the world, would be pleased to hear of an organization in Omaha. Ay 'L. Hatch SARAH] E. CARMICHAEL: As lofty mountains whose crests ever glisten with eternal snow and hear strange and weird music... So with the poet who hears music in the floating wind whispers in the forest; to whom the sea tells its wonderful secrets, seeing glory in the sunsct, feeling peace in the moonlight, and intuitively understanding the melody of birds. Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E. Carmichael's... To her inspired soul the Bible was an open book.... She need not to go to Switzerland to see the majesty of God displayed in her wondrous snowclad mountains, her wild scencry, her ravishing sunsets. —Lydia D. Alder WORDS THAT BLESS. The world of hope in which you live, The words of comfort you often give, The kindly letters your hand has penned To son or brother or distant friend, Not only brighten the jeweled crown Which you in heaven will wear, But help to swell the throng who hope To meet and love you there. —Alofa HOME OWNERSITP: Homes of their cwn for the common people was the sentiment Brigham Young tried to inculcate and practically to demonstrate in these mountain vales during the period of early settlement here. Who does not know that the home is the center from which springs the best in life and in government?... The home which is our own is the ideal one, the children enshrine it in their memory.... —FEditorial GRADUATION EXERCISES FOR A NURSES' CLASS: The nurses' class taught by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts... For the last six months or more, held its graduating exercises on 'Tuesday, December 20th.... Dr. Roberts gave the instructions free in the interest and under the auspices of he Relief Society.... The members of the class acquitted themselves admirably, and the Dr. Herself read a very able and highly constructive paper. Counselor Annie T. Hyde on behalf of the Stake Board presented to Dr. Roberts in a neat and happy speech a handsome rocking chair in appreciation of her labors... And the class presented a silver cake dish filled with lovely flowers. —News Note Page 30 EST Germany has encouraged women (whose civil rights and opportunities were drastically curtailed during the war) to develop themselves to the highest degree possible. Many now fill top positions in the fields of law, medicine, education, journalism, industry, and the arts. In May and June of 1958 the Government acted as host to ten outstanding women _ from America, selected and invited by the German Parliament. They represented a wide cross section of American women's achievement. A mutually beneficial exchange of ideas and national understanding and friendship resulted. GALLY CARRIGHAR'S exciting travel book "Moonlight at Midday (Knopf, New York), describes Alaska as a land of "enormous invitation," where the native people are the world's supreme example of co-operation and skill in mastering a difficult environment. Many thoughtful suggestions are offered for helping the Eskimos through a time of transition as they adjust to the ways of the Forty-ninth State. Miss MARGARET L. COIT is the author of Mr. Baruch, chosen by the National Council of Women as its Book of the Year for 1958.