[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Portrait | Author: Atkinson]
second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Mabel Law Atkinson, Dayton, Idaho, for her poem "Portrait of Lincoln's Second Mother." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her poem "Parting on the Prairie." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Hill appears for the second time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Atkinson is a second-time winner; and 1958 marks the third time that Mrs. Young has placed in the contest. There were 156 poems submitted in this year's contest. Entries were received from thirty-one states, with the largest number coming, in order, from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, and Texas. Fintries were received also from Canada, Mexico, Scotland, England, New Zealand, and Australia. 'The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. 'The General Board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. 'The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights of the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. Page 7 Prize-Win ning Poems Gliza R-Snow Poem Contest LAEL WOOLSEY HILL First Prize Poem She Selling Lael W. Hill ",.. She went and told them that had been with him " (Mark 16:10). How kingly to the rising day Where I had lowly come, he came Along the ferned, unfolding way Of morning golden as his name. Page 8 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 9 I felt the look he looked on me Like spring in willow-wanded green, I saw his smile begin to be, Like birds with sudden sky between. And how a breathless word was I— An almost fear, an almost flight But for those birds upon that sky Where he stood tall with light! He came to me in sun-up glow, As trees leaf out from dust and stone, As winds that orchards breathe and blow, Warm flesh on living bone. 'Time spun around me green and blue, The world was all a garden room, And when he spoke my name, I knew Why stone gives way, and lilies bloom. <-< Lael Woolsey Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, was awarded second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest last year, and has frequently contributed poems to the Magazine. She tells us that she would truly appreciate having this year's biographical sketch ''make most mention of the original verse form (so far as I have been able to determine) in which my poem '