[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 20—"A Principle With Promise" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, April 28, 1958 Objective: To illustrate the importance of health and recreation in finding "'a fullness of joy." HE Latter-day Saint religious philosophy represents an unusual combination of the temporal and the spiritual. We believe that man's temporal life is a vital part of his spiritual progress; that the body, though mortal, will be eternally associated with the spirit in its resurrected state.. Spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy (D & C 93:33). The warmth and glow of the individual's personality are heightened with good health and satisfying recreation. In this lesson we shall consider how each of these contributes to the development of the individatenlh Because the Lord is interested in our temporal welfare, he gave to us, his children, a "word of wisdom," one of the best prescriptions for good health ever written. (See D & C 8g.) Although this "principle with promise" was "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints," many of us have never yet taken the time and trouble to have this prescription filled in its entirety. 'To the extent that we have used it, we are a healthier, happier people. Because of its wise provisions, we are more "health conscious" than we would otherwise be. To achieve and maintain good health we should have: 1. Proper food and nutrition 2. Regular health habits 3. Physical and moral cleanliness LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Exercise—including work and _ play 5- Sufficient sleep and rest 6. Protection from evils (products or practices) which make us susceptible to disease and accident. 7. Good mental health — a peaceful mind 8. Regular medical and dental checkups. Prudence in Health Practices The Word of Wisdom admonishes us to follow its teachings with "prudence" (D & C 89:11). Prodence is the ability to regulate and discipline oneself through the exercise of reason. It contemplates the use of caution, circumspection, knowledge, skill, and wisdom in discerning the most suitable course of action and in avoiding rash or illadvised decisions. With the specific "do" and "don't" aspects of the Word of Wisdom as a basis, the Lord expects that our prudence will guide us the rest of the way in planning a substantial health program for our families. If such ls the case, we will seek and apply additional health truths. The scriptures often suggest rules of good health: Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (D & C 88:124). Do not run faster or labor more than you have strength... (D & C 10:4). (This advice was given to the Prophet while translating The Book of Mormon.) Knowledge and wisdom concerning good health practices will fortify our households against useless or harmful products offered by designing men for family consumption. The use of proved knowledge concerning food, its balance and preparation, in avoiding illness and de- 65 veloping strength and vigor, should be an integral part of family procedures. The wise use of rest should be a part of each person's health program. Growing Up With Ease A happy, normal life requires good health, which begins at home. Health of the parents lays the foundation for family health. If sickness curtails the routine, the household must adjust and work harder to build a health program. Generally speaking, if a "healthy attitude toward health" is developed early, our emphasis will be on staying well, not on being sick. If sound health habits are practiced from the beginning, family members are equipped to meet the strain of middle and later life more adequately. Too often as we grow from one stage of development to another, we have difficulty accepting physical changes as a part of the normal growing-up process. Some _ stages of growth and maturity can seriously warp the personality unless understandingly accepted as part of nature's plan. 'The toddler who ls ever moving during his waking hours must move for proper muscle growth and co-ordination. The awkwardness and distortions of adolescents will not become causes of youthful unhappiness or maladjustment, if parents and others deal with them wisely. The lovely prelude to motherhood, while often accompanied by discomfort and anxiety, can be a choice experience for all family members. 'The slowness of pace and the lessened resistance to bodily ills of the aged call for special family understanding. Physical changes and differences should be accepted in a natural, comfortable 66 way, so no one feels self-conscious, awkward, or embarrassed. When this is the case, people mature and age gracefully without dread of the future, but with an intelligent outlook and zest for living. Good health can mean lengthened years and useful old age. What is age? A perfectly well man of sixty has a body made up of tissues, organs, and cells that have seen many years of service. All these suffer bodily changes which, added together, result in "aging." A man ages as a whole and he ages in parts. Organs age unevenly. A. Sixtyyear-old man may have a_forty-year-old heart, fifty-year-old kidneys, and an eightyyear-old liver. And he may try to live a thirty-year old life (Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 130, page 6). A Part of Prudence The wise family will take preventive steps to lessen their chances for illness and accident, and to prepare for emergencies that may arise. The regular medical and dental checkups can curtail both sickness and expense by locating trouble at its outset. Choosing a family doctor who is competent and in whom the family has confidence is an important safeguard. Immunization and isolation against disease should become a routine procedure. A record should be kept of type and date of immunization of every family member. Hospital and medical insurance on a pre-payment plan is a wise investment for any family. Home safety is a part of family health, for to be healthy we must be relatively free from accidents. Many accidents occur at home because of poor management of "'time —space—and traffic." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Special Health Problems Overweight and underweight problems of an extreme nature constitute special health problems. 'The body does not function best under these conditions. Most people are overweight because they overeat. This may be due to habit, family tradition, sociability reasons, convalescence, or emotional problems. If the overeating stems from loneliness, lack of love, worry over money, job, family relationships, or social standing, the emotional problem must be solved before the diet can be successfully controlled. Some unknown physical condition may need attention, as is often the case with underweight cases. In either situation, a physician should be consulted and the problem corrected under his prescribed diet and exercise. Family co-operation can greatly help in such projects. Food should be purchased and prepared with such needs in mind. The physically handicapped member of a family presents a singular problem. Such cases call for a skillful diagnosis and the best possible treatment. If the patient can remain in the home, he should be accepted wholeheartedly as part of the normal life of the household. If institutional care is required, close contact with family members should be maintained to give encouragement and incentive for recovery. Alcoholisin is an increasing health problem which may touch most of us only indirectly, but as a community problem it affects everyone. It is estimated that 70,000,000 Americans drink — including 4,500,- 000 alcoholics. This does not include so-called "hidden alcoholics." The cost of wages lost, crime and LESSON DEPARTMENT accident involved, hospital and medical care, and jail maintenance cannot be estimated. Six men to one woman fall victims to this illness, and eighty-five per cent of those men are between thirty-five and fifty-five years of age, with children. Drinkers become alcoholics when they lose their "choice" powers. 'This disease is not caused by a bug or germ, but by emotional or psychological factors. Alcohol's victims are now being approached as sick folk worth helping. Research, knowledge, and understanding have been combined in an effort to achieve complete recovery. Climics are now available where medicines, psychotherapy, and psychiatry can assist and supplement the patient's own efforts in conquering this handicap. Mental illness is a health concern which is increasing much too rapidly, and we are well aware that if mind and body are to work well together, good mental health is a must. The Lord suggested the importance of good mental attitude in the Word of Wisdom when he cautioned us to guard our health and take proper nourishment with a spirit of "thanksgiving." The need for a cheerful, happy, grateful atmosphere in the home cannot be overemphasized in building good mental (and physical) health. When this is found, confusion is reduced to a minimum and children are free from worry and tension. Opportunity should be given for family members to talk problems through and "let off steam" through proper channels, rather than bottle up emotional tension and resentments.