[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Good | Author: Wrathall]
[Good Bye and Good Luck, Mrs. Kelsey—First Prize Story Norma A. Wrathall]

Bates says that I never look as fierce as I think I do. "Thought Pd come over and tell you the news," she began, not waiting for me to invite her in. [I thought that her face was more relaxed than usual. "We got a letter from Pa's brother up in Oregon. Wants us to come up there. Says he has a steady job lined up. So we'll be moving right away." It took me a moment to find words. "That's wonderful. For you, [ mean. But — that's a long trip. Will your old car make it?" "Oh, very likely it will. Pa's out there working on it now. He's pretty good at fixing things, if you 18 can get him at it." She started away, then paused and lifted her head, a thin flush spreading up under her cheeks. "Guess the neighbors will be glad we're moving. Guess it might be the best news they've had!' "Oh why no " I fumbled; but she was already halfway down the path. The news ran like quicksilver over the party lines. A sort of glad relief surged over the neighborhood, and with it a trickling of belated good will. We had all snubbed the Kelseys, and as far as I know, no child had been allowed to play with Benny or Pete But guilty feelings bring out strange behavior sometimes. One after another of us took over some little friendly offering. Dorothy Driggs took some good cotton 'Tshirts which her boys had outgrown; old Mrs. Bates took a blanket she had stored away and never used. The wound still hurt when I thought of my dahlia. But, after some deliberation, I gave Mrs. Kelsey a new dress which my sister in Chicago had sent me the previous year. I had never worn it, because, as my sister should have known, I can't wear yellow. [ll never forget the look on her face when she held itup. "New," she breathed, "brand new." Even Verner Hals stopped by to tell me that he had found four good retreads for their car at his brother's garage. "Couldn't risk having the trip fall through for lack of transportation," he said. "That's a kind act, but it lacks a charitable motive!" I told him. He raised an eyebrow, "Who's calling the kettle black?" he said, and laughed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 HEY were scheduled to leave on Saturday. On Friday morning, Mrs. Kelsey was again at my door. She's come to say goodbye, I thought, and resolved to send her away with a kind feeling. I asked her to come in and sit down, and passed a plate of oatmeal cookies. As she talked, her large, strong hands, usually still, pleated the side of her dress. "Mrs.