[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Spafford]
'Therefore, there is no sounder approach EDITORIAL for Relief Society in meeting its responsibilities toward good community life, than vigorously to function in the building of citizens of strong moral character. The place where good character is most effectively built is the home. This has always been true; it is true today. If attention is not conscientiously and continuously given to this important matter in the home, it is not to be expected that it will be accomplished elsewhere. Good character is developed through love, acceptance, and feelings of security. It is engendered in children through wise teachings and through discipline that leads toward self-discipline. It is tremendously influenced through parental attitudes and examples. A lack of restraint and self-discipline on the part of the parents can outweigh all their good precepts and adversely affect children throughout their entire lives. As Relief Society helps its members toward proper attitudes, as it 33 guides them in their homemaking, as it teaches them the doctrines of the Church particularly with regard to home and family life, as it awakens in them a sense of responsibility to maintain their homes and guide their children in harmony with Church teachings, as it helps them to see the relationship of what they do to what their children are most apt to do—to this extent the Society will help them to be indhividuals of strong moral character themselves, and it will also be an effective agent in helping them to rear children of strong moral character. 'hus, Relief Society best meets its responsibilities to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Ours is not necessarily the role of the campaigner against one or another of the existing community evils; ours is the role of the steady, consistent builder of men and women of integrity and moral fortitude who will uphold and promote virtuous community life. —BSS. Sour color Covers—A lew Seature for the Reliof Society lagazine HE General Board of Relief Society calls attention to the use of four colors on the covers of The Relief Society Magazine. 'This feature was initiated in November 1958, with the use of the plaque in the Relief Society Building, the same picture which was used for the program of the Relief Society General Conference.