Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Soints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magozine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
Deseret Book Relief Society Reading Course Volume OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS —An Anthology of Literature, Volume I (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here it is! The first in a series of analysis of fine world literature. Out of the Best Books, Volume I, is the exciting, new Relief Society course outline for the '64-'65 and '65-66 years. Great literature from the pens of men like Robert Browning, William Wordsworth, Robert Burns, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and many others come to life with more meaning in this exciting volume. Here is a valuable addition to every LDS library! $2.9° T Deseret Bc Book I COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Deseret Book Company 44. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Dear Sir: Enclosed please find $3.10 for my copy of Out of the Best Books Volume I. Money Order (1, Check((], I have an account, please charge [_] a I — Z SS ML Residents of Utah add 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Have you ever seen a bonafide check for $19,433.17? Neither had Mollie Hobson. Life had little to offer Mollie but hard work and loneliness. Well past fifty and a widow, her last boy, Jerry, was forced to seek employment asa farm worker in a community a considerable distance from home. Jerry failed to mention his purchase of a $10,000 Beneficial insurance plan, but in the few blinding seconds before the fatal automobile accident which took Have you ever seen a check for hilife, peiMapacthetnalieeaee that fortunate purchase flashed $19,433. 77? Through his mind. Since the policy carried accidental death benefits doubling the face amount, the proceeds would have been $20,000, except for the fact that in settling proof of death, it was discovered that Jerry had misstated his age as somewhat younger than his actual age. It was necessary, therefore, to deduct $550.56 to adjust properly the discrepancy in age. A grateful mother will now enjoy some modest comfort and freedom from worry thanks to the foresight of a loving son and the wisdom and miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Srscrance GE Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 600 million dollars of life insurance in force.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_08_03_The Home_House_Singley.txt) ===
song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads. THe Singing Mothers of New York and New Jersey Stakes, under the baton of Sister Ellen Neilson Barnes, gave a spiritually moving and impressive experience on May 8, 1964, to the hundreds assembled in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria, New York, at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc. This luncheon honored the American Mother of 1964, Mrs. Cora Stavig, and the other forty-nine State Mothers. These hundred singers, a third of the group which sang at the New York World's Fair on June 24 and 25, were invited by the American Mothers Committee, whose able and gracious President is Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, to provide musical selections at the luncheon. Five numbers were rendered: "America the Beautiful," 'Dear Land of Home," ''Give Me Your 572 Tired, Your Poor," "No Man Is an Island," and "You'll Never Walk Alone,' with Melva Barborka, soprano, Louise Pratt, harpist, and Clara Neu, accompanist. Mrs. Barnes typifies the ideal Singing Mother conductor. She conducted the numbers in an impressive but restrained way which focused the attention on the glorious music which poured forth. No applause was allowed between the numbers, but an encore "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was called for, followed by a standing ovation from the densely standing audience. The Singing Mothers were grouped at the back of the dais and hidden by elegant draperies which parted to reveal the Singing Mothers. A backdrop depicting a rainbow set off the four rows of Singing Mothers in their white blouses. The ballroom presented a Relief Society Singing Mothers at the Awards Luncheon For the American Mother of the Year Waldorf-Astoria, New York City, May 8th The conductor Mrs. Ellen Barnes stands in the center (in dark dress); Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President, American Mothers Committee, Inc., is seated at the left of the WaldorfAstoria sign; seated at the right of Mrs. Lewis is the American Mother of the Year, Mrs. Cora Stavig of Sioux Falls, South Dakota: Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and a Director of the American Mothers Committee, is seated third from the left in the second row. The Singing Mothers in the picture are Relief Society members from New York and New Jersey. Beautiful rainbow setting with each of the tables, seating ten, being ringed by rainbow-colored candles. There were four graduated rows of officers and honored guests seated on the dais. A highlight of the luncheon was the Procession March of the Mothers, each carrying a candle. In addition to honoring American Mothers, special citations were made to "Three American Patriots": Mr. Russell De Young, Chairman of the Board, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company; Mr. Conrad Hilton, President, Hilton Hotels and Hilton International; and Mr. Frank F. Samford, Chairman of the Board, Liberty National Life Insurance Company. President Belle S. Spafford has served on the Board of Directors of the American Mothers Committee Inc. For eight years. Mrs. G. Stanley McAllister, Chairman of Music, is the wife of the President of the New York Stake; and Mrs. David J. Wilson, a VicePresident, is the wife of Judge David J. Wilson, and was formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board. The attractive program includ-

ed the following information on Relief Society: The one hundred-voice Relief Society Singing Mothers Chorus singing at this Rainbow Awards Luncheon is from adjacent metropolitan areas of the New York and New Jersey Stakes of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_08_16_SpFt_Promotion_Keeler.txt) ===
amMmoo Ww EXERCISE 1 Copy these letters, using guidelines and following numbered strokes as indicated. <lg8 EXERCISE 2 Draw faces in these balloons, using guidelines for eyes, nose, mouth. Guidelines should be erased later, when faces are drawn. EXERCISE 3 Read this message. Reword for a poster. Use concise, effective statements. "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every home. It is helpful for homemakers. It has interesting articles, poetry, and stories to interest the family.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_08_34_The Home_The_Coles.txt) ===
Hundred Five Mrs. Lizzie Dell Merrill Hillsboro, New Hampshire One Hundred Mrs. Chloe C. Spencer Aurora, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Annie Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Mina Vernettia Williams Twitchell Spokane, Washington Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah Mrs. Harriet L. Bronson Woodland Ogden, Utah Mrs. Josephine Robinson Harris Provo, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Alice Spillett Gregory Union, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Rachel Fowles Peterson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Chelnecha Damron Barron incom, Idaho Mrs. Lillie Potthouff Strache Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Fredonia Lloyd Baker Bicknell, Utah Mrs.