[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 626 | Home | Work Meeting — Health and Its Influence on Happiness Winnifred | C. Jardine]

WORK MEETING    Molding a Happy Life

Winifred C. Jardine

Discussion 2: Health and Its Influence on Happiness

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

For Second Meeting, November 1964

Objective: To examine common-sense ways of maintaining 
good within the family.

HEALTH and happiness are often mentioned in the same breath. And well they might be, for while it is possible to have happiness without good health, more often than not happiness seems to hinge upon the observance of good health habits — practices within daily living that enhance feelings of buoyant good health, abounding energy, and zestful living.

President Belle S. Spafford in remarks at the presidents session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1963, counseled the mothers of the Church to take good care of themselves physically in order that they may remain well and strong to care for their families. She appealed to the sisters to get sufficient sleep and rest, to eat properly, and to refrain from pushing themselves beyond their physical endurance.

To promote good health within the family and the general feeling of well-being that goes with it, we need to observe a few rules with persistence and determination. Family members who fail to do so may suffer from malnutrition, exhaustion, and fatigue, and may be so irritable, cross, and unreasonable as to offer serious threats to family happiness.

Four rules of health that go a long way towards keeping a family in a state of general good health and, consequently, in a state of happiness are as follows:

1. Proper Food and Correct Eating Habits

To provide the wide variety of proper foods needed for the nourishment of the family, menus should be planned regularly around the Basic Four Foods. The following should be included in each day's menu:

A. DAIRY FOODS — milk, cheese, ice cream, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk.

626

LESSON DEPARTMENT

B. MEAT GROUP — meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese — with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates.

C. VEGETABLES AND FRUITS — include dark green or yellow vegetables; citrus fruit or tomatoes.

D. BREADS AND CEREALS — enriched or whole-grain. Added milk improves nutritional values.

A wide variety of these foods eaten in reasonable and moderate amounts is the best possible protection against nutritional disease.

Meals should be eaten at regular hours each day. The body is set for sustenance at certain times, and when there is a break in that routine, tempers become short, patience is exhausted, and family equilibrium is upset.

It would be well to serve family members only enough food to maintain proper weight for height. Overeating is a common failing. Stress the eating of fruits and vegetables and avoid too frequently serving rich desserts and excess sugars and starches. Provide snacks of vegetable sticks, fruit, fruit drinks, and milk, cheese, deviled eggs, etc., rather than candy, cookies, and cake.

Serve an adequate breakfast and encourage all family members to eat it. Breakfast should include 1/4 to 1/3 of the total calorie needs for the day. Tests have proved that children and adults, alike, are more compatible, less accident prone, better students and workers, and have quicker reactions if they have eaten an adequate breakfast.

Special effort should be made to have family members eat together at a well-laid table and in an atmosphere of peace and harmony.

2. Regular Exercise and Fresh Air

Daily exercise and fresh air are important to good health and a feeling of happiness. Walking to work, to church, to market, to school, on errands, etc. provides opportunity for exercise. Exercise develops muscles and improves the general tone of the body. Games, walks, outdoor chores, such as gardening and mowing the lawn are all good forms of exercise.

3. Adequate Rest

This should include two things — sufficient sleep at night and adequate rest during the day from tensions and drive. Both are important to good health and to a general feeling of peace and happiness within oneself.

Adequate sleep — depending upon the individual — is necessary for all adults, and an hour or two more is needed by young people. Authorities say that for optimum health the regularity of sleep should not be broken too often. Mothers often think they are too busy to take an afternoon rest, and yet the more one has to do, the greater the need to plan for regular rests in order to accomplish the work.

4. Regular Medical and Dental Care

Physical defects in family members should be corrected, then regular check-up visits made.

Departing from these four basic rules of healthful living can bring on unhappy and even tragic practices. Latter-day Saint parents must be vigilant against the formation of any addictions in themselves and in their children, and they must be alert to signs

627

AUGUST 1964

pointing toward them. Even in times of stress, it is usually best to depend upon our own good health and good health habits to carry us through. We should use medication only on the advice of a physician and withdraw from its use at the earliest possible time. Whenever our bodies become fatigued and weary, we should give them rest rather than stimulants.

We as Latter-day Saints, should respect our bodies — giving them proper food at proper intervals, getting sufficient rest and sleep, exercising and getting fresh air, and visiting the doctor and dentist at regular intervals for check-ups.
