[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 564 | Special Feature | For the Blessing of the Lamanites Boyd | K. Packer]
[the Indians]

For the Blessing
of the Lamanites

Elder Boyd K. Packer
Assistant to the Council of the Twelve

IN March of this year almost two hundred teen-age Indian boys and girls gathered in Sandy, Utah, in a youth conference of the Indian Student Placement Program of the Church. They represented almost twenty Indian tribes, and they came from reservation areas spread over a wide area from Mexico on the south to Canada on the north. For the school term they had lived with non-Indian Latter-day Saint foster families throughout Utah and Arizona. The theme of their conference, selected by the students themselves, was "Our History Foretells Our Future."

Those who visited the conference and observed the display of talent and leadership during the two days of activity would have agreed that a brightening future awaits these young people. In many ways they reflect the development and progress which is being achieved to an increasing degree by Indian people throughout the land. In fulfillment of Nephi's prophetic words (see 1 Nephi 15:13-14), the Lamanites in our day are, indeed, being restored to their rightful place in the House of Israel. By their obedience to the principles of the gospel, they are beginning to receive the blessings promised to their ancient fathers.

In devising a theme for their conference, the Indian boys and girls gave recognition to the illustrious history and achievement of their forefathers, recounted in The Book of Mormon. Following the time of the Savior's visit to this hemisphere, the Nephite-Lamanite remnant reached a peak of perfection and righteous achievement. Fourth Nephi records:

"And it came to pass . . . the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. . . .

"And now, behold, it came to pass that the people of Nephi did wax strong, and did multiply exceedingly fast, and became an exceedingly fair and delightsome people. . . .

"And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.

564

FOR THE BLESSING OF THE LAMANITES

"There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God" (4 Nephi: 2, 10, 16, 17).

TODAY thousands of Lamanites are coming into the Church. More than one hundred Lamanite branches have been organized among the stakes and within the missions. In many of these branches the leadership is provided by the Lamanite members. They are the branch presidents, the teachers, the auxiliary leaders, the music directors. With increasing effectiveness and with characteristic humility and devotion, they are carrying forward the program of the Church. Lives are being transformed. In some cases whole Indian communities are being affected.

In the small Paiute Indian settlement near Cedar City, Utah, a beautiful new chapel points its spire to the sky. The building, faced with colorful native stone, is a monument to the dedication and energy of members of the Cedar Indian Branch. Much of the work on the new chapel was done by the branch members themselves. To provide a lovelier setting for their chapel, the Indian people have undertaken a community improvement project. Homes and outbuildings are being painted; yards are being improved; fence lines and empty lots are being cleaned of weeds and debris. A new sense of pride and industry seems to pervade the little community.

The development taking place among these people has been reflected in yet another way. Recently the branch presidency was reorganized, and Franklin Benn, an Indian elder, was installed as the new president, the first Indian to serve in this capacity since the branch was organized.

A growing number of Indian boys and girls are accepting calls to serve on full-time missions. At the time of this writing there are more than thirty Indian missionaries laboring in the two Indian missions. An added number are serving in other missions throughout the world. The Muddy River Indian Branch in the Moapa Stake, with a membership of fifty-five, has three missionaries in the field.

If one were to visit the Pomo Indian Branch in the Santa Rosa Stake (California), the Omaha-Winnebago Branch in Nebraska, or the Cattaraugus Branch in New York, he would find capable Indian members serving as Relief Society presidents, Sunday School superintendents, and branch leaders.

MORE than six thousand Indian boys and girls are attending special Seminary classes which are being conducted across the Nation from New York and North Carolina to California and Oregon. Forty-seven Indian students were enrolled in the Brigham Young University during the 1963-64 school year, and there were hundreds in other institutions of higher learning.

But the work is only beginning. There is a great deal yet to be done, and all of us share in the responsibility. Brigham

565

AUGUST 1964

Young charged the membership of the Church in his day to press forward with the work of redeeming Indian Israel. Speaking to a group of the saints in the Provo area, in 1855, he said, "Now, if this people, male and female, feel to school them [the Indians], spend time and pains to instil into their minds correct principles, to divide land with them . . . and will go to work and restore them to the knowledge of the truth the Lord God will bless them, and they will have nothing to fear. If you live up to this you will rise, while those who do not will go down. If this people will observe this covenant, and follow it one and all . . . thousands and hundreds of thousands will embrace this Gospel, and for ought I know scores of thousands will become members of this Church" (J.D. 9:228-229).

Nephi, seeing in vision the important role which the non-Indian members of the Church would have to play in this great latter-day work, said: "And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to do a marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great worth unto our seed; wherefore it is likened unto their being nourished by the Gentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders" (1 Nephi 22:8).

The work in behalf of our Lamanite brothers and sisters must go forward. They have waited long years for their restoration to the blessings of the gospel. The Lord has placed a direct responsibility upon the members of the Church to see that the great work of redemption does not falter. Every Latter-day Saint should be a friend and a champion of the Indian people. We must be certain that blessings are not withheld because of any indifference or intolerance on our part. Our patient labor in behalf of Lehi's seed can help them to reclaim their inheritance in this land.

"And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of God?

"Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural branch of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree" (1 Nephi 15:15-16).

And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the Father made with your fathers . . . (3 Nephi 20:25).

566

INDIAN
ARTS

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Gusher Branch, Utah, Indian Relief Society (Ute)

Front row, left to right: Emma Cireech; Eva Burson; Maryetta Reed, visitor; Vonnie Dahlberg; Stella LaRose.

Back row, left to right: Uintah Stake Relief Society Presidency: Norda Cook, Second Counselor; Elouise Turner, President; Helen H. Walker, First Counselor; Sister Hardinger; Vera Olsen, former president, Gusher Indian Mission Relief Society; Zelda Reynolds; Bertha Staugh; Mary May Murray.

Most of these sisters subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine and enjoy it very much.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Owyhee Branch, Nevada, Relief Society Work Meeting

567

[PHOTOGRAPH]

District and Branch Presidents, at Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society Convention
Holbrook, Arizona, July 1963

Front row, left to right: Ester Belabody, President, Moencopi Arizona Branch Relief Society; Helen Sekaquoptewa, Oraibi, Arizona, First Counselor in the Mission Relief Society Presidency; Bonnie Marseing, President, Tuba City District; Vera Price, Supervisor, Arizona Indian Relief Societies.

Back row, left to right: Elizabeth M. Baird, Supervisor, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society; June Young, Chinle, Arizona, President, Central Navajo Relief Society; Bertha D. Paice, Supervisor, New Mexico Indian Relief Society; Alice Overson, President, Keams District Relief Society; Judith Chemema, Counselor in the Indian Branch, Holbrook, Arizona.

Some of these sisters traveled more than 150 miles each way to attend the convention.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Omaha-Winnebago, Watt Hill, Nebraska, Relief Society Handwork and Sewing Projects

568

[PHOTOGRAPH]
Cedar, Utah, Indian Branch Social

[PHOTOGRAPH]
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Relief Society Work Meeting Committee
(Navajo and Pueblo)

[PHOTOGRAPH]
Northern Indian Mission, Wolf Point, Montana, Lamanite Relief Society
Displays Bazaar Items

Front row, left to right: Vonda Rae Beauchman; Velma Tramblee.
Back row, left to right: Emma Beauchman; Leonard C. Red Elk; President, Wolf Point
Branch Relief Society; Evan A. May; June N. Ashton (former editorial assistant, Relief
Society Magazine) President, Hi-Line District Relief Society; Louise R. Christensen, missionary.

Many of the sisters were absent when this picture was taken, as the temperature
was 25 degrees below zero (in November 1963). Beautiful handwork and quilts are
specialties of these sisters.

569

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Tucson Branch, Arizona, Lamanite Relief Society (Papago)

Seated in front, left to right: Lucille Palino; Margaret Tso; Ruth Norris.
Standing at the back: Irene Leonard, President, Tucson Lamanite Branch Relief Society; Bahe Billy, President, Tucson Lamanite Branch; Rafaela Garcia.
Faithful Lamanite sisters hold all the offices in the branch Relief Society. The sisters are very artistic and skilled in their native crafts.

Maria's Return

Lottie H. Singley

(Through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' Indian Student Placement Program, Maria has lived in the home of Mrs. Singley's daughter, Carma S. Crosby, for the school period during the last five years. She is as dear to the family as any child could be.)

How could one help but love her,
This child of the desert plain;
Maria, lovely Maria, is our
    little Navajo's name.

She ran as fleet as a young fawn,
Wind wafting her raven hair;
The light in her eyes did pirouettes,
Her feet balleted supple and bare.
Her teeth shone as white as goat's milk,
As I cuddled her quivering form;
Neither could speak as we clung cheek to cheek,
Oh, Maria! my Navajo born.

570
