[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 597 | Home | Pretty Pillows, Useful, Too | Shirley Thulin]
[Pretty Pillows, Useful, Too Shirley Thulin]

Pretty Pillows useful tool!

Shirley Thulin

Pillows, pillows, pillows! Some are pretty, some useful, some just for fun. Make these easy pillows and start right away to enjoy them.

HANDY TRAVEL PILLOW

The neatest trick in a long while is this pillow bag made of ribbons. Toss it on your bed as a pillow with pajamas inside, make it as a welcome gift, or as a traveling aid.

The pillow bag may be used as a laundry bag for nylons and lingerie, as well as a daytime hiding place for pajamas. It is convenient for traveling, holding clean clothing on the way and light laundry when returning.

Materials Needed: To make the pillow bag, you will need 3 yards of grosgrain ribbon 1 inch wide, and 6 yards of woven edge taffeta ribbon 3 inches wide.

Cut the 3-inch ribbon into four strips 1½ yards long. Cut the 1-inch ribbon into 6 strips 1½ yards long.

Procedure: Starting with the narrow ribbon, top stitch the strips together lengthwise at the edge, alternating widths. Now sew the outside edges together to form a tube. Gather one end tightly together, and attach a six-loop bow made from one of the remaining 1½ yard lengths of the 1-inch ribbon.

At the other end, fold the top narrow ribbon strip in half and stitch on the inside, making a hem to hold the remaining 1½ yards of grosgrain ribbon which is used as the drawstring (figure 1).

SICK-ROOM PILLOWS

Pillows can play an important part in the caring for a person who has to remain in bed for awhile. There are several different sick-room pillows.

[ILLUSTRATION: Shows a gathered circular pillow with decorative bow on top]

(fig. 1)

All of them should be made with removable covers, for easy cleaning.

Back-rest Pillows. There are two back rest pillows which are handy to put at the patient's back while she sits up. The first one is a pillow arm chair, and should be made of a sturdy fabric such as denim. You could also use a heavy plastic material.

Make back first. From a piece of material about 22 inches wide and 26 inches long, cut a rectangle, rounding the top two corners (figure 2). This is the front of the back rest. Now cut a similar rectangle, only make it 31 inches long (figure 3). This is the back of the back-rest. Cut 2 triangles about 26 inches long and about 12 inches wide at the base (figure 4). This forms the sides of the back-rest. The bottom of the back-rest is a piece 22 inches long by 12 inches wide (figure 5).

[DIAGRAMS: Shows 4 pattern pieces labeled as figures 2-5, with measurements:
- Fig. 2: Front of back rest, 22" wide x 26" tall with rounded top corners
- Fig. 3: Back of back rest, 22" wide x 31" tall
- Fig. 4: Side of back rest, triangular piece 26" long x 12" wide at base
- Fig. 5: Bottom of back rest, 22" wide x 12" tall rectangular piece]

597

AUGUST 1964

Sew the two straight sides of the triangle pieces to the 26-inch sides of the front piece. Now join the back of the back-rest to the front and sides by sewing it along the slanting side of the triangle and along the rounded top of the front of the back-rest. Now sew the bottom of the back-rest in place, leaving an opening for the stuffing. Be sure to take deep seams all around. Stuff this pillow very firmly, or use a solid piece of foam rubber.

Make arms of back rest. Cut four rectangles of fabric 26 inches long and 7 inches wide. This makes the sides for two arms (figure 6). You will now need 2 pieces 66 inches long and about 8 inches wide. These can be pieced. They form the top, front side, bottom, and back side of the arms.

[DIAGRAM: Rectangle labeled "Cut 4" showing 26" width and 7" height, labeled "(fig. 6)" and "arms of back rest"]

Stitch one arm together by beginning at one corner of the folded rectangle. Begin also at the end of the long strip. Now sew the strip all around the four sides of the rectangle (figure 7). Now sew the two ends of the long piece together. Next, sew the other rectangle on the other edge of the long piece in the same way, leaving an opening for the stuffing. Make the other arm the same way. Now you have two arms, or pillows, which are long and narrow. Join them at a corner edge to the back rest with heavy thread in an overcasting stitch (figure 8).

[ILLUSTRATION: Diagrams showing "(fig. 7) making the arms for the back rest" and "(fig. 8) joining the pieces of the back rest"]

Triangle back rest. This pillow serves somewhat the same purpose as the arm-chair pillow, only it is a simpler one. You will need one rectangle 26 inches long and 25 inches wide, one rectangle 31 inches long and 25 inches wide. These make the front and back. Cut a triangle the same as for the arm-chair pillow also a bottom. Stitch this pillow together the same as the back-rest for the armchair pillow. Also stuff this pillow very firmly.

Elbow Pillows. It is very comforting to a bed patient to have small soft pillows on which to rest arms or legs. These can be used to vary a person's position while lying down, when the patient is too sick or too weak to hold his arms or legs in various positions by himself. These pillows can be placed under the elbows, knees, or at the back, or under the person's neck. They are simply made of a soft material, such as flannel, or other soft cotton, and are made in various sizes, not over 14 inches square. They must not be stuffed very full. Old nylons or shredded foam rubber make good stuffing for these pillows. Square ones are best, but they can also be round.

KNEELING PILLOWS

If you are one who still scrubs her floor on hands and knees, or if you kneel in your garden, you will enjoy using this pillow. Use a strong fabric, such as upholstering fabric, or denim. It should be made of a dark-colored cloth. You can buy some squares of foam rubber which make ideal stuffings for these pillows. You can also stuff them with used nylons, or other soft materials.

Make your kneeling pillows about 24 inches square. This means, then, that you will need two squares about 25 inches square, allowing for seams. Now you will need a long piece (which can be pieced) 100 inches long and about 5 or 6 inches wide. Sew this pillow together the same as the arm pieces to the arm-chair pillow.

FANCY BED AND SOFA PILLOWS

Whether square, round, triangle, rectangle, or heart-shaped, fancy pillows always add a certain pleasure to

598

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

a bedroom or living room. These pillows also make wonderful gifts, either for birthdays, Mother's Day, or for a shower.

In choosing the fabric for your fancy pillows, remember that the prettier, the better, so satins, taffetas, velvets, or bright corduroys are good. The colors can be bright or pastel, mixing or matching, and the sizes can vary from tiny ones about 8 inches square to large ones 40 inches square. To make a professional looking pillow, stitch a cording all around your pillow. This is very easy to do and will add greatly to the appearance of the finished product.

You will need a heavy string, or you can buy cording at drapery departments. Cut a narrow strip of your fabric about one-half inch more, or more narrow, for daintier pillows. Using your zipper foot, machine stitch the strip around the string, sewing very close to the string, and leaving the seam on, to be sewed in with the pillow seam (figure 9).

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 9 showing a cross-section of cording construction with labels for "stitch", "string", and "making cording"]

When you sew the cording on the pillow, be sure to put the covered string part inside between the two right sides of the pillow back and front, and the raw edges of the seam edge even and horizontal with the edges of the pillow material. Then pin or baste so that you will stitch along the same stitches that you sewed the string inside the material with. Thus, when you turn the pillow to the right side, the cording will be neat all around the edge of the top of the pillow. You can also put a cording all around the bottom edge if you desire (figure 10).

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 10 showing a pillow with cording around the edges]

Shiny Satin Pillows. Buy different shades of satin that complement your room, and shades that pick up the hints of color in the wallpaper, or in the drapes, or even in your favorite painting. Make these pillows about 16 inches square. If you want to make the cording around the edge, it will add attractiveness. Sometimes a cording of a contrasting color gives a pleasing accent. You also could sew a fringe of matching or contrasting color in with the seam. Stuff these pillows with discarded nylons, and make them sturdy and plump. If you want an even fancier satin pillow, cut the top square of the pillow larger and then shirr it before sewing it to the back square.

Make a Tube Pillow. A very useful and attractive pillow for your couch is the tube pillow. You will want two just alike, one for each end of the sofa. You can make them of corduroy or velvet. Just make the pillow as long as your sofa is deep, so that it will fit along the end, by the arm of the sofa. You will need a piece of material as wide as your sofa is deep, usually about 22 to 26 inches, by 22 inches wide.

The pillow should be about 7 inches in diameter. You will need two round pieces 7 inches in diameter for the ends. Stitch the rectangle on to the two round pieces, making a tube with the ends. You can sew a tassel to the center of the round end, if desired (figure 11).

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 11 showing a cylindrical tube pillow]

BABY PILLOWS

These pillows are attractive and appropriate to give at a baby shower. They are just for show, since, in most cases, it is better for babies not to sleep on pillows. These pillows may be placed in the corner of the crib or carriage. The favorite shape for a

599

AUGUST 1964

baby pillow is a heart (figure 12) but it could be round or square as well.

[ILLUSTRATION: Heart-shaped pillow with decorative embroidered design and ruffled edges, labeled "fig. 12"]

Make a pillowcase or cover, to slip over the pillow. This should be made of a soft dainty cotton, or batiste. Pure white is prettiest, but it could be a pale pink, or blue, or yellow. It should not be very big. About twelve to sixteen inches square is a good size. Draw tiny flowers, dainty birds, or other designs on the front of the pillowslip. You can trace these designs from magazine pictures, or buy an iron-on transfer pattern. Embroider the design with pastel shades of cotton thread or white. Stitch lace or satin ribbon where desired.

The back of the pillow is made of two pieces 7 inches by 12 inches, if the pillow is going to be twelve inches square. Along one of the twelve-inch edges on each piece, make a tiny hem (figure 13).

[ILLUSTRATION: Rectangle showing dimensions 7" x 12" with "small hem" labeled, marked as "fig. 13" and "baby pillow"]

Now, putting right sides together, sew both back pieces to the front piece by lapping over the tiny hemmed edges in the center, making sort of a split down the back (figure 14).

[ILLUSTRATION: Rectangle showing back of pillow cover with split opening, labeled "fig. 14" and "back of pillow cover"]

Now turn right sides out and stitch two or three tiny white snaps along the split to keep it closed until wash day.

Make the back of the pillowslip the same style no matter what shape you are making the pillow. Make the pillow of white cotton, and make it the same shape as the pillowslip, only a little smaller so the cover can go on easily.

SAD OR SUNNY PILLOWS

This is a child's just-for-fun pillow, but it also is practical. During the day it holds his pajamas. On one side of this pillow is a bright sunny face and on the other side is a sad face. The child will love to display the face which best suits his mood for the day. After seeing this cheerful pillow, each morning, the sunny face will most always win out.

Make a funny face. This pillow can be made of unbleached muslin or other suitable material. Draw a big circle for the pillow and make big comical features, a sad face for the back, and a happy one for the front (figure 15). Make the eyes and the mouth large. You can make the features from suitable colored felt or paint them on with your textile paints; embroider the face with six-strand cotton thread.

Place the front and back together, right sides together, and, beginning at the eye, pin along the seam line around to just at the opposite eye. Now take a strip of brown or black felt three inches wide and cut a fringe about two inches deep for the hair (figure 16). Place this with the fringe

600

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

[ILLUSTRATION: Two circular pillow faces - one happy with radiating lines around it, one sad with messy hair-like fringe]

(fig. 15)
sad or sunny pillows

inside between the front and back of the pillow and continue to pin the seam on around, catching the unfringed edge of the felt. Machine stitch all around, leaving an 8-inch opening at the top of the head to push the child's pajamas into. You can sew snaps along the opening or a zipper.

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of fringe or tassels in a row]

(fig. 16)

If you would like to use yarn in place of the felt fringe, sew 2-inch lengths of yarn along a one-inch strip of cloth and sew the same as with the felt fringe.
