[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 580 | Special Feature | Our Board Goes to Conference Marjorie | M. Reeve]

Our 
Board
Goes to
Conference

Marjorie M. Reeve
President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society

Among many of the blessings of being a stake board member is the privilege of going to Relief Society General Conference each fall. Our stake was organized in October 1956. We had just missed being able to attend conference. Immediately we made plans for the following year. We were ready to leave early on a Saturday morning. Friday evening a telegram arrived telling us that conference was cancelled because of the flu epidemic. Another long year to wait.

Now each year we make plans in November for the coming trip the next fall. Board members make plans early, always using the positive approach. When a new member comes on the board, she is asked to plan to go to Salt

Lake City for the Relief Society Annual General Conference.

Traveling a round trip of 2500 miles in a car is about the best way to get acquainted with one another. The trip takes two days each way. It is looked forward to with anticipation, to meeting friends—yes, but most of all to be spiritually fed. What a thrill it is to kneel in prayer night and morning with these sisters. The driver knows how careful she must be. We have, indeed, a precious group.

We are always busy doing something. Eating is such a pleasant, fattening pastime for women, and believe me, we do plenty of it! We plan it for weeks. Hot postum, bouillon, chocolate, soup, crackers, cheese, tomatoes, car-

580

OUR BOARD GOES TO CONFERENCE

rot and celery sticks, sandwiches, chips and dip, and fruits of all kinds. Well, you name it, we take it. One year a board member was expecting her ninth child and was unable to make the trip. She colored hard-boiled eggs and put our names on them. Easter in October! We felt so appreciative that we carefully peeled the eggs and sent the shells back to her, arranging them in her cleverly decorated carton.

LAST year one ward bazaar was to be held soon after our return. We crocheted two afghans while riding to and from Utah. If a sister became ill from looking down while working, she soon found herself driving, so the other five could work. No shirkers are allowed to make the trip. The second morning at 7:30 A.M. we were going through a small town in Colorado, just two blocks ahead of us was a 50-mile sign. The driver started to resume speed, and soon we heard a siren (the only time we have been stopped). The policeman was overcome at seeing five women busy at work with materials spread all over the car. He just cautioned us to drive carefully, and wished us a safe journey. We were so impressed with his courtesy that on the way home we wanted to thank him. It was noon when we arrived at the police station and the policemen were home to lunch. We explained to the receptionist that we wished to thank the officer, not knowing this small town had more than two or three on duty. Each rider naturally gave a different description of the officer. The confused receptionist phoned for the chief, as she seemed to think he might fit the officer whom we so feebly described. He arrived in due time, probably leaving a hot meal. As soon as he got out of the car we knew he was not the man in question. We have wondered if our officer friend may have been rebuked because of his kindness to us, and our desire to reciprocate.

Songs have been composed, plans for the Relief Society year made, and once a complete PTA skit program was organized. We have learned a great deal as the years have passed. For instance, at first our songs after the first line or two were finished with la, la, la, all wishing we could remember the words. Now we take song sheets, pamphlets, and songbooks. Our singing has improved tremendously. We have learned, when leaving on a Sunday, how far we must travel before stopping for sacrament meeting. Our first theology lesson is given in the car, and a testimony meeting follows. We always plan an evening in the temple. The first year that I sat in the temple with these dear sisters, I cried most of the time. It is indeed a thrill to be able to sit in the house of the Lord with sisters with whom you work so closely and love so dearly.

THE return trip is most inspirational. As we drive up through the scarlet-covered mountains, our hearts are overflowing with the glorious things we have been told, the inspired program for the coming year, the well-portrayed playlets, the beautiful reception. All these have filled our hearts. The board members stand outside the Tabernacle for hours to be able to

581

AUGUST 1964

attend the Church General Conference. I actually weep when thinking of the testimony it gives those who have always lived in the mission field. I wondered, did I truly appreciate this while I lived in the Bee Hive State?

A long dream has now come true. Our stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are going to be able to attend Relief Society General Conference in 1964 as a group! We are going to sing Wednesday morning at the Officers Meeting. Plans have been made—temple excursions, a planned trip to the Brigham Young University, and General Conference. Yes, we must keep busy. We plan to have a stake opening social on the chartered train. Each ward and branch will present a part. It will be conducted on the order of a road show, going from car to car.

Some husbands and children are going, as they are new converts and will be sealed. What a wonderful wedding we can all attend.

If you wish to strengthen your stake board, go to conference. Partake, as we do, of this great and glorious program. Listen to our dear presidency. The sisters in your stake need this strength you receive, don't deprive them of it.

Yes, our board goes to Relief Society Conference. We couldn't afford to miss it. We need to be spiritually fed, we need to have our batteries recharged. What a thrill it is! But the biggest thrill is to return and kneel in prayer with your family and thank the Lord for the safe trip, and the support of the loved ones left at home.

Our Singing Mothers Pep Song

(Lively March Tune)

We're gonna — go, go, go to Salt Lake City.
Come on, Singing Mothers, let's go — —
We're gonna sing, sing, sing in Salt Lake City.
Relief Society Conference, you know — —
With great anticipation, with plans and preparation,
We'll have a wonderful time — —
We'll have to practice often, our husbands we will soften
To get out ev'ry nickel and dime — —
We're gonna go, go, go, to Salt Lake City,
Come on, Singing Mothers, lets go — —!

Some eyes see beauty where others do not think it can be found. For what are you looking? There is the great difference.
                                                — Zara Sabin

582
