[Vol51 | August 1964 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: 633 Social Science — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Ariel S. Ballif Poet']
'/mi/{ 
I  enjoy  very  much  to  receive  every 
month  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
It  is  thanks  to  my  best  girl  friend  Ann 
Reynolds,  who  lives  in  Ogden,  Utah, 
that  I  get  it.  I  like  very  much  the 
stories,  recipes,  and  lessons.  I  was 
very  happy  to  meet  President  Belle  S. 
Spafford  when  she  was  traveling  in 
Europe.  I  felt  her  sweet  spirit  and 
could  see  that  she  was  inspired  by 
the  Lord  in  all  that  she  does.  \  am 
twenty  years  old  and  a  member  of  Re- 
lief Society  for  almost  two  years  now. 
I  would  like  to  tell  all  my  sisters  who 
are  working  for  Relief  Society  I  love 
you  all  and  pray  that  God  will  bless 
each  of  you  with  his  Spirit  and  with 
the  blessings  that  you  need. 
Elaine  Gasquy 
Liege,  Belgium 
The  article  by  Olive  W.  Burt  con- 
cerning the  patchwork  skirt  (June 
1964)  was  of  special  interest  to  me, 
since  i  spent  a  couple  of  pleasant 
evenings  working  on  the  skirt  in  Mrs. 
Burt's  home.  I  have  since  made  a 
skirt  of  my  own. 
Helen  Fletcher  Collins 
Dugway,  Utah 
I  feel  I  must  write  in  explanation  of 
an  important  point  in  my  story  "Mama 
Lives  in  the  Kitchen"  (February  1964), 
brought  up  in  the  April  "From  Near  and 
Far"  section.  In  writing  the  story  I  did 
not  mean  to  imply  that  the  mother  was 
"overwhelmed  by  kitchen  work,"  or  even 
felt  that  she  was  ....  Her  kitchen  was 
the  heart  of  the  house  —  and  a  sunny, 
happy  heart  it  was.  The  fifteen-year-old 
daughter  In  the  story  thought  her  moth- 
er was  abused  because  she  was  a  ro- 
mantic-minded girl  whose  ideas  about 
marriage  ended  with  the  wedding  .... 
Perhaps  I  did  not  emphasize  my  point 
strongly  enough,  and  I  am  grateful  to 
Sister  Robinson  for  bringing  it  up.  I 
enjoyed  the  April  issue  very  much,  es- 
pecially "More  Blessed  to  Receive" 
(story  by  Nita  Ellis),  with  its  compelling 
theme. 
Lael  J.  Litti(e 
Monterey  Park,  California 
The  evening  after  I  had  read  the 
story  "The  Storm,"  by  Lila  Spencer 
in  the  April  Magazine,  I  was  walking 
with  a  dear  friend  who  had  been  denied 
the  privilege  of  meeting  two  of  her 
grandchildren.  "It  just  doesn't  pay  to 
get  attached  to  anything,"  she  said.  For 
a  moment  I  was  at  a  loss  for  words. 
Then  I  remembered  the  story  "The 
Storm."  "No  love  is  ever  lost,"  I  said, 
"no  love  is  ever  wasted."  I  pointed  out 
that  her  grandsons  were  better  off  for 
having  known  her  love  through  the 
years,  and  that  she  herself  had  grown 
from  giving  it.  Thus,  this  grandmother 
was  cheered  and  comforted.  I  cannot 
count  the  times  that  I  myself  have  been 
comforted,  cheered,  and  inspired  by  the 
Magazine. 
Donna   Monzeilo 
Reseda,  California 
The  article  "How  About  a  Get-It  Done 
Day?"  (by  Vera  Stocker,  In  the  April 
Magazine),  inspired  this  letter  and 
others  that  I  have  written  this  morn- 
ing. I  read  with  emotion  the  story 
"More  Blessed  to  Receive,"  by  Nita 
Ellis,  and  can  understand,  because  I 
was  on  the  receiving  end  this  past 
winter  while  family  and  friends  waited 
on  me,  when  I  would  rather  have  been 
up  and  doing  for  them.  The  Magazine 
contains  such  choice  material.  Recent- 
ly, while  visiting  a  friend,  someone 
called  at  the  last  minute  and  asked  her 
to  give  a  spiritual  thought  In  MIA  that 
night.  She  asked  me  for  suggestions 
and  I  immediately  thought  of  the  April 
Magazine  I  had  just  finished  reading, 
and  suggested  the  short  thought  "Ap- 
plication," by  Louise  Murray.  In  my 
teaching  in  Church  and  at  home  I 
frequently  find  myself  referring  to 
stories  and  articles  in  the  Magazine  to 
enrich  the  lessons. 
Rosalie  S.  Wells 
Promontory,  Utah 
I  really  appreciate  the  wonderful 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  As  a  mother 
and  wife  I  need  the  help  that  the 
Magazine  gives  me. 
Mrs.  Meivin  Billings 
Provo,  Utah 
562

The    R^li^f   Society  Magazine 
Volume  51      August  1964      Number  8 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp  Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
564     For  the  Blessing  of  the  Lamanites     Boyd  K.  Packer 
572     Singing  Mothers  Present  Music  at  the  American  Mother  Rainbow  Awards  Luncheon 
Marianne  C.  Sharp 
580     Our  Board  Goes  to  Conference     Marjorie  M.  Reeve 
592     Promotion  Posters  for  The  Relief  Society  Magazine     Gertrude  Keeler 
575     Mr.   Lewis  and  the  Ravens — Part  I     Ilene  H.  Kingsbury 
588     The  Someday  Vacation     Alice  Gubler  Sabin 
604     Your  Heart  to  Understanding — Chapter   7     Hazel  M.  Thomson 
562     From  Near  and  Far 
583  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
584  Editorial:    "Compassion  Becometh   a  Woman"     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
586  In    Memoriam — Alice   Bitner   Castleton 
587  Notes  to  the  Field:   The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference 
587     Picture   Kit  for   the   1964-65  Theology  Lessons  Available 
587     Visual  Aid  Packet  Available  for  1964-65  Literature  Lessons 
611     Notes  From  the  Field — Relief  Society  Activities     Hulda  Parker 
640    Birthday   Congratulations 
The  Home  -  Inside  and  Out 
596     Raw  Apple  Cookies     Florence  L.  Mecham 
596  Butter  Mints     Dorothy  Scott 
597  Pretty   Pillows,  Useful,  Too     Shirley   Thulin 
602  Gleanings  From  the  Summer    Nancy  M.  Armstrong 
603  Pauline  B.  Wale's  Hobby — Seventy  Years  of  Quiltmaking 
618     Theology— The  Vision    (Continued)    Roy  W.  Doxey 
624     Visiting  Teacher  Message — "And  He  Who  Receiveth  All  Things  With  Thankfulness  .  .  ." 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
626     Work   Meeting — Health  and  Its  Influence  on  Happiness    Winnifred  C.  Jardine 
628     Literature — Literature  "Tasted  .   .  .  Swallowed  .  .  .  Digested"    Robert  K.  Thomas 
633     Social  Science — The  Function  of  Divine  Law  in  Family  Relations     Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Poet'