Love's Vitamins By Wilford D. Porter The world speaks of diets of various types, To reduce or to build up your weight, And yet there's one diet that's failed to appear From the pen of the medics, to date. Though I haven't an M. D. Or title to give A force to the things I shall tell, There's a diet discovered for husband and wife, Which will keep their "Love" healthy and well: Each morning, just when the dawning breaks, And you rise to greet the new day, Take an ample amount of "The Tenderest Kiss," For that's lovers' vitamin "A." Your wife has burdens of care on her mind— The children from sickness to free; Then give her kind words, in doses, not few— For that is love's vitamin "B." And during the rush of the mad, busy world, Forget not the "Gallant" to be, Supply her with chocolates, flowers, and smiles; For these are love's vitamin "C." ry Although you not always agree with your wife In regard to her likes; you should see That your system is full of the "Give and the Take" — Thus you'll hand her love's vitamin "D." Of course there are many good supplement foods To the vitamins "D," '"'C," "B," "A," But "Love" will grow healthy and hearty and hale If this diet is followed each day. Turn About By Ivy Williams Stone Y nine o'clock on a lovely April morning Mrs. Ellen Mower had finished all her morning tasks, and settled herself to do some worthwhile self culture. She had reached that time in life where some * suppressed desires could be gratified. The hectic days of being laundress and seamstress, cook and nurse, playmate and teacher, were past. The once over-crowded darning basket was empty; there were no eager little hands to reach into the cookie jar; she no longer rose at dawn to wash nor ironed far into the night: Her five, eager, active babies had grown into men and women with babies and domestic problems of their own. Mrs. Mower felt that, with father on a simple diet, she could enjoy a well earned leisure. She had joined a literary club. In calm prospective she saw her declining years filled with cultural activity. The things she had always wanted to do were now possible. She need not become a dull, drab, unlettered old lady with no contacts with life. "Suttee: India's Deplorable Practice of Widow Burning." Mrs. Mower looked at her initial line with satisfaction, but somehow the subject did not fit the morning. The mild April sunshine did not seem kin to the sweltering heat of far away India. The odor of hyacinths and daffodils did not suggest a funeral pyre. On such a glorious morning it seemed incongruous that in a distant heathen country a widow —perhaps a mother—should offer up her life because her husband had died. - But the club president had assigned the subject, and Mrs. Mower felt she had a reputation to make.; "Suttee is the name given to a Hindu practice of voluntary death by fire, regarded as evidence of great wifely devotion." Mrs. Mower read the line aloud to an imaginary audience and leaned back with disgust. "Due to the vigilance of the British soldiers, the ceremony must be conducted with the greatest secrecy. The victim adorns herself with borrowed jewels, rides in state to the chosen spot, amid the plaudits of the villagers." "Suttee,' scoffed Mrs. Mower in disgust, "I never heard of such a dreadful, barbaric custom. Whatever becomes of the children? With their father dead, they need their mother all the more." She chewed the rubber from her pencil, broke off the point. While her brain floundered for more descriptive adjectives, the back screen slammed and her daughter Lucille hurried in, breathless and perspiring. She sank into a chair, her thin, wiry body taut with eagerness. "Mother, I have the most wonderful plan! I'm not going to Chicago with Tom, as I'd planned. Ive seen all those places, and I've arranged for the boys to go instead. 'While they're gone, I'm going over to clean house for Agnes!" "Did Agnes invite you?" queried Mrs. Mower dubiously. A vision of the slack Agnes giving such a task to her zealous sister was disquieting. "Agnes clean, house?" smiled Lucille. "I guess not. She never really cleans; she just wipes off the 568 high spots. Mother, I sometimes wonder how two such different women as Agnes and I could possibly be sisters." "Perhaps Agnes same thing." "Agnes and the children are going on summer location with Jack," Lucille preferred to ignore her wonders' the mother's gentle irony, "they intend' to close the house, and I'll have a wonderful opportunity to work. I ran over last night to take her some extra nice cream puffs and Agnes said, 'Your cookies look nice!' And can you imagine what they were doing?" Lucille's face became animated with joyous anticipation at telling a truth that seemed incredible. "The dinner dishes were still on the table. The entire family were outside, where Jack had a stepladder on top of a work bench. He was draping a tarpaulin over that precious cherry tree, for fear it might freeze the blossoms. He was in grave danger of breaking his neck. The doctor's bill would buy a ton of cherries!"" "Is it a Bing or a Napoleon?" asked Mrs. Mower mischievously. "Cherries are only cherries to me, I can't tell one kind from another. The tree is so close to the house that the noisy robins would send me distracted. And when they had completed that ritual it was too dark to work outside, so they all came in to eat. Their supper was milk and baker's doughnuts. Then the whole family turned in and washed up an accumulation of dishes. My family had spinach, veal cutlets, hot biscuits and cream puffs. I tell you, Mother, people are talking about the way Agnes neglects her house."' Lucille wore a virtuous expression. "Last fall they talked about her wonderful flower display at the fair," added Mrs. Mower. "I'd be i RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rather cautious," she continued, feeling that the courage of the Hindu women was insignificant beside this daring of one daughter to march upon the domain of another. "Cautious! I'll make that house over. I'll empty the sink of dishes, bleach her dish towels, iron her sheets. I'll empty those vases of withered flowers that litter every room. There's a spider's web in the north-east cofner of the basement window that my fingers itch to sweep down. The little closet under the stairs is crammed full of empty paper bags; sacks that held innumerable doughnuts and cinnamon rolls and baker's bread. It's a fire trap; wonder they're not cremated!" | - Mrs. Mower felt her important paper on India was not life. She forgot the value of personal leisure. The combined needs of all her five babies had been nothing compared to this daring scheme on the part of the determined Lucille. Agnes would be angry, aggrieved and hurt, but it was useless to argue. Chicago had no lure to take Lucille away from the joy of making over her sister's household. After a few more explanations she departed, righteous service showing in every one of her energetic steps. After their simple'mid-day luncheon, Mrs. Mower again started to complete her paper. The occasion was auspicious. Her first appearance on the program meant so much to her future in the club. ' If her paper "went over," she would receive flattering compliments, the correctly gowned president would call upon her, and Mrs. Mower's social future would be assured. She would not drift into senile old age, knowing only the activities of her children and grandchildren. If Lucille was determined to precipitate trouble bv TURN ABOUT meddling with Agnes' affairs, she would have to take the consequences. When your children married, you were certainly privileged 'to 'stop worrying over them. "The practice ls exceedingly old and is accompanied with mystic rituals. The villagers turn out en nuasse—"' The front screen opened cautiously and Agnes peered in, looking intensely relieved at sight of her mother. She sat by the open window and turned her palms upward so Mrs. Mower could see the earth stains. "T've been weeding," she laughed, "but it got rather warm, so I came over to tell you of my inspiration." She settled herself comfortably, while her mild, even tones blended with -the promise'. Of plumpness which her figure suggested. "T'm not going on summer location when Jack goes, Mother. He'll be there all summer and I'll get enough of it by going later. He and the girls can stop at the hotel for two weeks. I'm going to stay over that long and make Lucille a garden!" "Merciful Heavens!" Mrs. Mower almost stuttered, and the sheets on Hindu customs fluttered to the floor. "T knew it would surprise you!" Agnes smiled complacently. "But Lucille and the boys are going to Chicago with Jack, and while they're gone I shall remove the pretense of lawn and flowers which they have planted, and do some landscape gardening. That beautiful home of theirs is deserving of better grounds. Do you know, Mother," Agnes leaned forward in her eagerness, "do you realize their lawn is dying for lack of proper soil? No wonder it dries out, parches and dies. Do you know they planted cedar trees in sheltered, protected corners, and 569 everyone who knows anything at all, knows cedars must have wind? Lucille wonders why her pansies never get large and velvety like ours; she plants them on the south, against the cement wall. Yesterday I took her a bunch of my double narcissus and she said, 'what beautiful lilies!' It is an honest fact, Lucille and Tom can't distinguish between asters and chrysanthemums. They call all evergreen trees Christmas trees; to them flowers are merely things which smell nice. They consider time spent in a garden as wasted."; "Lucille's a wonderful cook and housekeeper,' defended Mrs. Mower. "Food," replied Agnes with dignity, "is a means of bodily sustenance. I eat to live." Mrs. Mower had a mental picture of the determined Agnes marching upon the neglected garden of Tom Rhead and re-making it according to her own ideals. She would be so engrossed, so filled with a sense of service that she would not even approach her own home until her allotted task was completed, knowing that the Spillsberry boy could be depended upon to care for their own garden. That morning Mrs. Mower had felt the women of India were brave beyond comparison. Now _ their courage dwindled into insignificance. Death by fire would, at least, be quicker than the disaster her two daughters were inviting. To change the home, to re-make the garden of another woman! It was preposterous! | the days that followed Mrs. Mower learned the inner meaning of the word strategy. As in the days when her children were small, leisure again became an unknown luxury. -Tom Rhead and his 'sons 570 left for Chicago, bound to secrecy but openly skeptical about the success of Lucille's plans. Jack Howard went to summer location as scheduled, feeling that even ten years of matrimony had not taught him women's moods. Mrs. Mower led a frenzied existence, worrying lest Lucille discover Agnes in her garden, lest Agnes find Lucille in her home. She carried daily provisions to Lucille every night; and every morning she stealthily took a like portion to her daughter Agnes. Like a conquering army Lucille marched upon the premises of Jack Howard. She did not see the graceful, lacy cut leaf birch tree which was the pride of the neighborhood. She did not see the symmetrical blue spruce which graced the back yard, nor the velvety lawn where no dandelion dared to sprout. The flowering catalpa and the tulip trees held no attraction for her. The Norway oak, whose seed acorn had lain two years before sprouting, did not seem unusual. A little, spindling evergreen, carefully guarded by trustworthy stakes and labeled "Sequoia Gigantea,' produced only the terse comment, "Another Christmas tree!" But she did see that the windows were a dull, faint gray; that in the haste of departure the sink was still full of dishes; the front porch. Light shade held the skeletons of last year's moths. Vases of withered flowers added an unpleasant odor to the house. The fringe on the parlor rugs had come unsewed; the magazine rack was cere with old numbers; the piano so dusty that Lucille stalked righteously over to it and wrote "DIRT" in bold, defiant letters. One corner of the parlor was piled high with newspapers, while the' bathtub held a huge Bes of unironed clothes. ' RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE "T suppose I can be grateful they're not damp and left to mold," cried Lucille indignantly.: "That Spillsberry boy can lend me a hand. Ill build a fire with all these newspapers and paper bags and while I'm in the basement Ill sweep down that spider web. I can't tolerate spiders!" -For ten days she worked at high tension, begrudging the time necessary to eat the food which her mother provided. Soap and polish, varnish and paint were her daily companions; vacuum and brushes, mops and brooms were her implements of warfare. The breakfast nook changed from pale grey to a vivid green. The bath room walls became a smallpox yellow. Gay shelf paper adorned the kitchen cupboards. The Spillsberry boy was kept so busy beating carpets and polishing floors that he had scant time for the garden. Lucille polished and re-arranged all the furniture, cleaned wall paper until the whole house was spotless. She lived strictly within the house, intent only upon her one objective. While her sister stayed within four walls, Agnes Howard gazed over Tom Rhead's heterogeneous garden and planned her line of attack. "That maple is still young enough to move, it's too close to the house. They should have known better than to plant a mother boxelder, the seeds will scatter for miles. The lawn must be fertilized and the dandelions are thicker than the grass. Those poor hydrangeas are worm eaten and the elm trees must be sprayed. The peony buds must be covered with bags before it gets too hot. The privet hedge needs pruning; the pansies must be transplanted farther from the house, 'and there are weeds everywhere! I'll have to work hard TURN ABOUT and fast to have the place looking as it should when they return from Chicago. I'll put a miniature lake in the center of the back lawn— water lilies will look beautiful there." During the following days she worked side by side with two gardeners. The sun was never too hot, or her body too weary for the allotted tasks. The days were far too short. Under her practised eye the hedges leaved out after pruning; the elms found new life in the spray, the daffodils and narcissus really bloomed, on tall, graceful stems. Since it was early in the season, Agnes watered everything unstintedly. She was so eager to sleep at dusk in order to rise at dawn, that she scarcely noticed the food her mother brought, but fell into Lucille's guest bed unconscious of embroidered sheets and down quilts. The clarity of the windows made it necessary to draw blinds. The dainty muslin curtains gave her no thrill. The highly polished floors were a menace to safe walking. She was unaware that the shiny linoleum had been polished with milk, and the lustre of the tiled bathroom seemed cold and repellant. The absence of - potted plants and vases of cut flowers gave her a distinct shock. The methodical precision that marked the arrangement of cupboards and closets seemed a waste of time. To Agnes Howard, accustomed to com-. Fortable untidiness, the spotless order of the entire house created a sense of uninviting stiffness. "It makes me feel like I dare not sit down!" she mused. "Never saw anything so poison clean in all my life. It's too tidy to live in." It was almost time for the important paper on Hindu widow burning. Mrs. Mower had been too disturbed over the activities of her 571 daughters to study the references. The outcome of their queer venture was still unsettled; it was inevitable that they would meet, for Tom Rhead was soon due home. It seemed so unreal to be studying foreign customs with life pulsing at her elbow. Everyone knew that to suttee meant voluntary death by fire. Only pagan people would do such a horrible thing. By sheer force of will, however, Mrs. Mower forced herself to the task of writing her paper. She spread out her sheets, bit her pencil, puckered her brows and began to write. "The British Government. Has been so untiring im its efforts to suppress this lamentable practice that—" The front screen opened unceremoniously and Lucille dashed in, breathless, hatless and indignant. Her once white house dress held faint stains of green paint. "Some officious person has been making our garden over!" she gasped. ' "They changed all our grounds. They've made a pond where Tom was planning a miniature golf course." She was still talking when the back screen slammed and Agnes appeared, her hands stained with dandelions, her sun hat much battered, her shoes caked with mud. "Mother," she began, blinking her eyes against the subdued light, "some uninvited person has cleaned my house. They've re-arranged all the furniture; they've burned those newspapers I was saving so carefully; the whole place smells of varnish and polish and paint. My breakfast nook is ruined with a gaudy green paint!" In her agitation her voice became excited, and then she saw Lucille and the paintstained house dress. 572 "T thought you were in Chicago!" gasped Agnes. "T thought you were in the forest with Jack," countered Lucille, casting suspicious glances at Agnes' dandelion-stained hands. "You stayed home to clean my house!" accused Agnes. "You stayed home to make over our garden!" came the retort. "You burned my paper bags; you killed that rare spider we hoped to photograph; you put on that abominable paint." "You put bottles of wet flowers, I mean wet bottles of flowers on my polished tables and ruined the varnish. You made that old fashioned pond in our back lawn. What will we do for a golf course?" "Our Sequoia Gigantea is nearly ruined for lack of water,' wailed Agnes. "Those trees are rare. Some are still living that were saplings when Moses led the Children of Moses to freedom." "Did you know," Lucille tried to be satrical and failed, ''that we have a water meter? You let that hose run day and night. Do you intend to pay the bill?" "You took the Spillsberry boy to help you wash windows and rugs and curtains, and our garden is nearly dried up." "You cut a lemon on my sink," countered Lucille, "and it's eaten the enamel off." "You put that silly pink paper on the kitchen shelves," retorted Agnes, "and you moved everything in the house. I can't find a thing." "You dug those dandelions out of the lawn, and we loved them so; you trained that creeper thing—" "Boston ivy, to be exact," interrupted Agnes. "Well, whatever its name is, you trained it to go around the window frames, and we thought it so much RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prettier to let it seek its own course." "T doubt if another spider will ever build in that corner," said Agnes, dropping into a chair from sheer exhaustion. ''Here I've toiled for ten days to make you a beautiful garden, and you repay me by spoiling my house and letting my garden run to ruin." After this thrust Lucille also felt the need of a support. She sought a chair before she gave answer. "Here I've labored ten days to make your house livable and systematic, and you repay me by spoiling my tables with wet bottles and making a garden we did not want, and running up a bill." Agnes leaned toward Lucille; Lucille leaned toward Agnes. Agnes raised a forefinger that was stained with dandelions from her sister's lawn. Lucille raised a forefinger that was stained with paint from her sister's breakfast nook. "Nobody asked you to do it!' they cried in unison. Mrs. Mower lost all interest in the lives of Hindu widows. If unChristian people on the other side of the world wished to practice self extermination, that was their business. She was powerless to help. She did not care whether she made an impression on the Self Cultural Club or not. Breaking into the upper social circle held no attraction. She did not want leisure for self culture. But she did want the two 'women before her—her daughters, her one time babies, to lose their animosity. She pushed her penciled, interlined sheets on "'Suttee" into the waste basket. She began to laugh. "Girls—girls," she was almost hysterical. "I've been all fussed over your queer ventures. I've been watching each of you work yourself into a frenzy. Ag- TURN ABOUT nes making an unwanted garden for Lucille, and Lucille making Agnes's house uncomfortable for the folks who have to live in it. You're extremists—both of you. Also, you're throwbacks. Agnes is like her great-grandfather Mower. He planted a grove of pines when he was eighty years old. My father's mother was so clean her neighbors called her 'Pisen Priscilla.' It takes all sorts and conditions of people to make a world. I want you to kiss and make up." Mrs. Mower pushed their two chairs closer together. "YT might have known Agnes wouldn't appreciate my efforts. I ache all over from so much reaching and scrubbing." Agnes smiled complacently and retorted, "If you want to know what a real ache is, get down on your knees and dig dandelions." The hand that was stained with green paint reached out to the hand that was stained with dandelions. 573 "Never mind, Sis,'"' added Lucille, "T can re-varnish those tables. I hadn't done it for a month, so they needed it, anyway." "And the way we eat, Lucy," replied Agnes, "I can soon have another batch of paper bags saved up 1? For my peonies! Mrs. Mower had a visionary, faraway expression. She suddenly reached for one of the crumpled sheets of paper and began to write. "Here," she cried triumphantly, "Tf I can't write literary papers, I can compose poetry. Listen to this: Before you plan your neighbor's days And have him re-arrange his ways You'd better change your mind; For when you've told him what to do He's apt to come right back at you, And pay you back in kind! Let's eat; we haven't had a decent meal for two weeks!" Hollyhocks By Lizzie H. Welker I'm going to keep our hollyhocks, back there in a row; Although I know Dame Fashion has decreed that they shall go. And all the gardeners, up-to-date, in any town I know Have dug up all their hollyhocks, and burned them long ago. And in their place, Miss Dahlia, stately aristocrat doth grow, Or, perchance, somie queenly lily, or some zinnias gay will glow. So, while backward, a bit farther, each season mine must go. I know I'll keep our hollyhocks, our little girls love them so. On winter days, so lonely, when we have a lot of snow. And sly Jack Frost is hiding in the wint'ry winds that blow; They sit and plan for summertime, little faces all aglow, When they'll make dolls from hollyhocks and have a baby show Of dollies with long dresses on, a standing in a row. Of red, of white, of pink, of rose, and some of gay yellow. So while others raise more stylish flowers, and have a flower show, I know I'll keep our hollyhocks, our little girls love them so. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon HE attractive new cover of the Relief Society Magazine is bringing forth many favorable comments. Pews deeper, richer colors of autumn are replacing the dainty pastel shades, so popular during the summer months, in fabrics and styles for women. OMMON sense clothes for street and office are featured in the fall exhibits leaving the "old-fashioned fripperies" for afternoon and evening wear. The ridiculous Eugenie hat is one of the "fripperies." ARY COLLINS of Caldwell, Kansas has been a mail carrier for twenty-five years, never missing a single day. OS ANGELES expects to curtail its charity fund a million dollars by cutting down on the "parasites." One wonders where these unprovided for will go this winter. WHITE BIRD FLYING?" is the significant title of Bess Streeter Aldrich's new novel. It carries on the saga of "A Lantern in Her Hand" to a later and more modern period. ARGARET AYERS BARNES' last novel "Westward Passage" may not win the Pulitzer prize, but it is praised by the critics equally with "Years of Grace." ISS ELIZABETH FITZGERALD of Utah led the American Delegation of Business and Professional women to the International Conference held in Vienna this summer. The delegates were entertained at the different American embassies in Amsterdam, Munich, Florence and Rome. The group were also granted an audience by the Pope. OROTHY ARZNER, Paramount director, claims that there are many productions where a woman is better equipped than a man to direct because of the deeper emotions which come through the screen. It would seem this advice follows for all stage productions as other American stars will have their own theatres and own repertory this fall. Katherine Cornell takes over the '"Bassetts" in the old Belasco playhouse; Alice Brady will produce a cycle of dramas in her father's playhouse in New York; Pauline Lord is to be a producer in her own theatre, and Jane Cowl will manage her own plays, mostly Shakesperian works. ENRIETTA SCHMELER, the brilliant Columbia co-ed, lost her life this summer on an Apache reservation, where she had ventured to live among the Indians to gather first-hand information for a thesis. Rather costly knowledge that. A NEW YORK heiress, Miss Ethyl Clyde, saved from eviction 59 families of the striking coal miners of West Virginia by guaranteeing a year's rent. The wives and children of these families trudged their way through the heat and dust for miles seeking relief. One wonders why a few more heiresses of millions couldn't see the light and help a little. Evelyn Bronx By Edythe C. Robbins ELL, I must be going, or mother will be waiting for me. I promised to go shopping with her." 'Arlene 'Argyle rose, pulled on a close fitting gray hat, fastened a winter suit of the same color, adjusted her fur around her shoulders and commenced drawing on a pair of suede gloves as she sauntered toward the door. Helen Brown Trent had followed her and opening the door placed a hand in the other woman's gloved one. "Thanks, Arlene—maybe you're partly right after all." She could hardly fight back the tears. "Helen dear, forgive me if I've hurt you too much—I only raved on that way for what I thought was your own good. I know I've no right to judge my married friends this way, being only a sort of old maid myself," she laughed, it was a wistful sort of laugh—"but even old maids think they can see a few things from the side lines. And— dear girl, it seems to me you have been such a crazy thing. Think it over if you care to, but don't worry a lot. Call me again if I can help you." Helen smiled, 'Don't be surprised if I do call you." "Lovely. Helen, this was one of the most delicious luncheons I have ever eaten. Thanks. ''Goodbye." She almost ran down the big' stone steps to her green roadster. The woman at the door stood peering through the glass until her friend, car and all had disappeared from sight. Turning, she entered the long living room and dropped into a chair facing the dying embers of the grate. She felt numb, a trifle ill, and of a sudden, wearily old. Point by point she turned over in her mind all that her friend had said. There was the case of Ruth Greeley, a former school-mate, who until her recent death, just a few months previous, had been the highly respected wife of Tom Greeley. This same Tom Greeley was president of the company of which her husband was vice-president. That was bringing the thing nearer home. Apparently Tom had already announced his intention of marrying Evelyn Bronx. No doubt Evelyn was all right—Helen had never met her to judge. They said she was fascinating, unusually educated, though not beautiful nor striking. Helen had always thought Ruth and Tom were devoted. Had Ruth failed after all in some of the essentials that she should be forgotten so'soon? It was disappointing at best. — here were her own problems too. No time for them now, however. Bob and the girls would soon be coming from school. She glanced at the little Swiss clock on the mantel. It was five minutes to five. She rose quickly and started for the kitchen. There was dinner to prepare. It was Martha's afternoon and evening off and the girls seldom came from the University in time to help, so she couldn't count on them. She hoped at least they would come in time to eat. It had always seemed so jolly to have the whole family together for dinner. At seven-fifteen that evening C. Howard Trent was seated at the head of his table carving a leg of lamb, assisted at his right by their oldest daughter, the lovely Mariane. "Like any parsnips tonight, Mother?" 576 Helen looked up from her end of the table. 'No, dear, just a few peas—yes, part of that potato will do." She would have to eat something. "Gee, Mom, how do you get that way? No appetite—you ought to get out and train a couple of hours after school." This from Bob, already five-feet-eleven and only in third year High. "Wish Dad would hurry up with my part of that roast. I'm almost starved." Fair-haired Ruth glared across the table in disgust. "Why Bob, anybody would think you were still in the grades." Ruth (now a fullfledged University '"frosh') was really quite grown up. "Thought you were learning manners. One of these days you will, don't worry." She winked at her Dad. "Ah, lay off a fellow. Ill take three of those brown spuds, Mariane, and rush the service!" He fairly grabbed for his plate. "Um, is this food good?" "Bless his heart," thought Helen. If things could only taste like that to her again. She wondered what was keeping Howard, Jr. So long? Just then the front door burst open and in strode a dark, broadshouldered youth. Tossing his bag on the nearest chair, he made for the dining room. "Well, looks like the whole family's waiting for me." "Sure thing! You better shake a leg if you know what's good for you, Big Boy." Bob had just passed his plate for a second helping. "Gee this food's good!" The eldest son gave his Dad a pat on the back, his mother a peck on the cheek and took his place beside Ruth. "Say Howd," she leaned toward him, "got something to tell you tonight." "Good girl," he whispered back. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He loved this pretty blond sister of his. "What kept you so long, tonight, son?' his father asked, a trifle concerned. "Oh, just a little extra dissecting up in the Lab. The Professor let Greg and me in on something special because we seemed interested. Let me tell you though, a fellow who makes his senior year in Medics, even from a Western U, doesn't do much loafing. "Bad as that?" asked Mariane, as she piled his plate high. "Worse!" "Oh, by the way, Mother, "have you ever happened to meet a Miss Evelyn Bronx?" Bob glanced up quickly. "Oh, she's—" "Did you know I made peachcobbler for dessert tonight Bob?" Helen asked quickly. There it was, out for the second time that day: first from Arlene, then Howard. How it hurt! But she must forget now. Must get through dinner. She must think by herself later. * ok K Ok OX The clock in the hall struck eleven. Helen. Trent peered anxiously into the mirror of her dressing table. The revelation was not flattering. Point by point she judged herself. She was forty-five—she looked fifty-five—or more. On the face, once really lovely, were lines— tired, discouraged lines, careless lines. Her skin—(no wonder the girls had said what they had) looked sallow and lifeless. The eyes were not bad, they were blue—but there wasn't much sparkle to them. (Perhaps that was the reason Howard had stopped mentioning them. ) Her hair was still brown, but looked as lifeless as she felt. Naturally she always had it shampooed and waved for an occasion, but not regularly EVELYN BRONX as she might have done. (Maybe the hair-dresser had been right in scolding as she had.) Her figure— well, it really was the one thing she might be proud about. At least she'd been active and wise enough to keep that right. There might be something to build on after all. Passing over all the details it boiled itself down to this: Arlene had been right—as the wife of a man like Howard Trent, she had been a fool. He was already wealthy in a moderate way, vice-president of the same company as Tom Greeley—this same Tom who had so quickly forgotten his Ruth in favor of Evelyn Bronx. Just because it had been necessary to give up things when they had less and the children were babies, was no excuse for the same thing as time went on and conditions improved. She had felt it much more important to stay at home fussing with the girls' clothes, cooking the boys' favorite dishes herself, despite the presence of the ever faithful Martha, than to join them in a course at the University, take a treatment for her hair or her skin, read the latest book or buy a new suit. She had no time to flatter, coax, laugh, or take a trip with that big husband of hers. (He did so like these things, too.) It was all very clear now! She rose quickly. It was a desperate situation. She must solve it desperately. She knew exactly what to do—even Arlene was not necessary now. The woman pulled out her only suitcase from the further end of her clothes closet, dusted it and laid it on the bed. Opening the drawers of her dressing table and chest, she surveyed her possessions. "Not much for a rich man's wife," she murmured to herself, "Never mind, there may be 577. Better times coming, when I once get started! "What was that?" Howard was coming up the stairs, she knew his tread. Quickly the suitcase went under the bed and she closed the drawers just in time to reach the door before he tapped. "Still up, Mummy?" You'd better go to bed. You look about all in." He barely touched her lips as he kissed her good night. "You may be wanting more than this before long," she thought. * oe Ok kk Helen Trent settled herself against the plush and linen of the Pullman seat—a smile of satisfaction and relief crept over her features. She thought over the crowded events of her day: breakfast, bidding Howard and the children their casual goodbye, phoning for trainschedules, a hurried trip to town. There she had arranged for the necessary money, drawing from the bank account she had laid by for the children's college and the girls' trousseaus. Luckily she had access to this, as it had been placed there by her, in her own name. Helen knew it really wasn't needed for it's first purpose. Everything simmered down, the boys and girls too, for that matter would appreciate it more if they had to earn at least part of what they spent. This piece of business had been followed by a little shopping, sending a telegram to her friend, Lulu Bransford at San Diego, and dashing home to find Howard detained in town for lunch. After her meal she had sent Martha to town, hurriedly finished her packing, called a taxi and caught her train. She couldn't help chuckling again as she thought of the note left behind and the surprise it would cause. 578 "Dearest ones," it had read, "Above all things do not worry. I am well, happy and sane! Am taking a much needed trip, but it's a secret. Best of luck in your work and play. You will hear from me again. 'Love, "Mother." x Kk Ok Ok Ok Six long, lonesome (perhaps profitable), weeks had passed. To C. Howard Trent, seated at his mahogany desk, they had seemed more like six years. There had been an occasional optimistic card received, but always without a return address and always with a different postmark. Just a few more days of this suspense would drive him to a detective agency for help. His door opened—an efficient secretary stepped in. "Telegram, Sir." *k ok * *k x The following afternoon found C. Howard, Sr., Jr., Mariane, Ruth, and even Bob Trent, standing on the platform, tense and_ breathless, watching for one familiar form to descend from the steps of a newlyarrived passenger train. Minutes that seemed hours, passed by. Surely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the last had alighted. Despair was creeping into five faces—no 'Mother! Bob and his father had started —and then—what a vision of loveliness! A trim little figure of a woman, exquisitely gowned in soft yet modish browns and creams (even wearing flowers), fresh and smiling started toward them. Why it couldn't be! Yes—it was —Mother! For the space of so many minutes, events in the lives of six people were too poignantly glorious, too beautiful, to seem real. * oF * KK That night in their joint room, safe and warm in her husband's arms, she murmured, "'Howard." "Yes dear." "You remember asking me something about an Evelyn Bronx? I met her while on the Coast, she was selecting some trousseau things. I think she's lovely." a Yes—really? But do you know there is, and always will be, just one lovely woman in all the world for me? Her name happens to be Helen Brown Trent." He said it slowly and convincing enough, to leave absolutely no room for either doubt or argument. My Precious Gifts By Mary H. Mitton The precious little children are Sweet messengers of love; Bringing pure joy and happiness Dear gifts from Heav'n above. The tender little arms and hands Entwined about my throat, Their prattle's like the song of birds A thrill in ev'ry note. The dear sweet kisses shower down Like petals from the rose, And tired little baby heads Upon my cheek repose. Just the touch of a little hand To cheer me on each day, Dispelling sadness from my heart While at my knee they play. *Twas just a little gleam of Heav'n When each one came to earth. Father keep them pure and holy Just as they were at birth. Notes to George Washington Bt-Centennial Programs WE congratulate the stakes and wards for their extensive tree planting. So far as the visits of the General Board have extended this year, it is found that all stakes and most wards have planted trees, to be dedicated on the bi-centennial of the birth of George Washington, Feb. 22, 1932. More trees will be planted this fall. It is hoped that all wards and stakes will have at least one program for this memorial. "These points should be emphasized with respect to the Celebration of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of George Washington next year: "1. It is sponsored by the United States Government: Congress created the George Washington Bicentennial Commission and the President of the United States is its chairman. "2. It will not be a world's fair or exposition, and it will not be held in any one place. "3. It will be a nation-wide, even a world-wide series of celebrations in which every state, city and town —every organization and institution, every home and individual—in this country, together with Americans and others in many foreign countries, will participate. Every community is expected to plan and carry out its own program of events, in cooperation with the United States Commission and the State Commissions. "4. It will last from Washington's Birthday, February 22, 1932, to Thanksgiving Day, November 24, the Field 1932, with special local and national celebrations everywhere on all holidays, anniversaries, or~other days which can be connected with the life of George Washington. "5, While the ceremonies on February 22 should be especially elaborate and impressive, as marking the actual Two Hundredth Anniversary of George Washington's Birth, arrangements also should be made for public gatherings, pageants, plays, processions, musical festivals, tableaux and other events at various times during the entire period of more than nine months. Every program should relate to the great life and work of the First President and - Founder of the Republic. On Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and other national and local holidays or anniversaries there should be special programs, but the celebration should not be confined to these days. "6. It 'will take time to prepare the local programs and arrange for the local celebrations. The United States 'Commission 'urges mayors and other officials of every city and town in the country to appoint George. Washington Bi-centennial Commissions or Committees, in order to prepare for the events of the Bicentennial Year. "7, All organizations and institutions of whatever character—civic, business, labor, educational, religious, fraternal, literary, social and others—are urged to plan for a 'George Washington Year' in 1932. "8. The United States George Washington Bicentennial Commission, Washington Building, Washington, D. C., will send literature and suggestions for local programs 580 to any committee, organization or group that will write for them." This literature includes suggestive patriotic programs, pageants, plays, appropriate music and songs, specially prepared sermons for sacred services, cuts for newspapers, extensive biography,; and _ separate papers on various phases and incidents in the life of George Washington. Song Book For years our organization has very much enjoyed the Relief Society Song Book. Some months ago the last copy was sold. Through the advice of the Church Music Committee it was decided not to reprint it, as they desired that the adult members of the Church would, as far as possible, use one song book, The Latter-day Saint Psalmody. It should be understood, however, that those who still have the Relief Society Song Book should use it and are in no way obligated to get new books. A List of Valuable Books Mrs. Claire S. Boyer, a teacher in Liberty Stake, has kindly sent in the following list of books which she feels sure the social service leaders in the Relief Society would enjoy and could use profitably in their work. The list is published, not with the expectation that our teachers generally will purchase these books, because the text and lessons in the Magazine furnish more material than the time allotted for this work allows to be presented, but many are anxious to further enrich their minds and ask what other books they can read along this line. Personality, Spillman; Personality, Carman; Psychology of Personality, Valentine; Directing Mental Energy, Aveling; Conquest of Fear, King; DevelopRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing Personality in Boys, Borman; Personality and Health, Sadler; About Ourselves, Overstreet; Influencing Human Behavior, Overstreet; Beyond Behaviorism, Courtney; Initiative Psychic Energy, Hiltan; The Doctor Looks at Love and Life, Collins; How to Live, Bennet; A Laugh a Day Keeps the Doctor Away, Cobb; Brain and Personality, Thompson; The Education of Children, Adler; Keeping Mentally Fit, Jastrow; Piloting Your Life, Jastrow; Health Through Will Power, Walsh; The Human Mind, Meninger; Training for Power and Leadership, Kieiser; Think, Hunter; Pep, Hunter; He 'Can Who Thinks He Can, Marden; Power of Will, Haddock; The Thinking Machine, Herrick; Psychology, Martin; The Meaning of a Liberal Education, Martin; The Dance of Life, Ellis; The Good Life, Russel; Happiness, Phelps; Intelligent Living, Riggs; Mind and Personality, Brown; The Psychologist Keeps House, Gordon; Personality, Gordon; The New Generation, Calverton; Every Man's Genius, Austin; Progress of. Culture, 'Woel;. The Psychology of Loyalty, Royce; Creative Understanding, Keyserling; New Girls for Old, Blanchard; Modern Conversation, Hall; Kingship of Self Control, Jordan; Handsful of Living, Norris; The Religion of Beauty, Bell; The Joyful Heart, Chauffler; The Psychology of Thinking, 'Miller; The Meaning of Culture, Powys; Self Cultivation in English, Palmer; The Creative Spirit, Brown; Art of Thinking, Dimnet; Exploring Your Mind, Wiggam; Memory, Phelps; Laughter and Health, Walsh; Preface to Morals, Lippman; How to Use Your Mind, Kitson; Charm, Wilson; Human Nature, Schoen. Music The glorious days of autumn are here; vacation time is ended. Relief Society workers everywhere are approaching their labors with renewed courage and appreciation. Choristers and Organists have you determined in your own minds just what you desire to do in a musical way this year in your organization? Have you formulated a plan which will help you to improve the music in your community? Now is a good time to put a good plan into action. Would it be too difficult to aim at NOTES TO THE FIELD a new song learned each month, with a heartier singing of the old songs? Encourage those who sing alto to sing alto along with the sopranos, so that two part singing may be developed. Now is a splendid time to begin trio work. This could be done best 581 by special rehearsals by selected singers, Let your slogan be "More and Better Singing in the Relief Society Organizations." We hope every organization will learn at least six new songs during the year. Notes from the Field Moapa Stake: Te above lovely picture is that of the Panaca Ward Relief Society, and is the portrayal of the pageant "Women of the Bible." This very interesting event was staged in the Panaca Auditorium in June, 1931. The names of the sisters in the picture are: Top row, left to right, Ruby Lee, Amy D. Mathews, Winifred Cutler, Maribah Edwards, Katherine Heaps and Josephine Wadsworth; lower row, left to right, Belva Edwards, Afton Mathews, Dollie Wadsworth, 'Ruth Lee and her baby, Ruby, Annie H. Mathews, Emma Hansen, Addie Blad and Romola Lee. The event, so artistically staged, was a very great success from every point of view. The interpretation of the Biblical women was very splendidly done, and efforts of this type prove beyond doubt the versatility and the artistic trend which the 'Relief Society does so much to cultivate among the women of the organization. 582 Idaho Falls Stake: I. May the Idaho Falls stake Re- ' lief Society gave a most interesting celebration in which the history of the Relief Society work in that stake was presented in pageant and drama form. This began with the first stake board organization in 1895, and depicted the work of the first stake board, with special emphasis on the efforts among the sick, ' when visits over a sparsely settled country were made, horses and buggies being the medium of communication. The characters were represented by women dressed in the costumes worn during the period. Two of the original members took their own parts, Sister Elvira C. Steele, who had been a counselor, and Sister Alice Boomer, the treasurer of the Relief Society. The different administrations from the beginning to the present were represented, and the progress of the work, with all the features that have developed, and the special activities, were shown. About fifty women and many children took part in this program, enhanced by music and songs, which did much to add to the success of the entertainment. The scene of this very interesting event was the Stake Tabernacle, and was presented to a group of more than 700 people. It was particularly interesting as the pageant with the drama accompanying was written by local women, and directed by members of the stake board. Curlew Stake: @e tainty the Relief Society of this stake is to be congratulated on the very fine work done in the field of child health and protection. Word comes to the office of a clinic, just completed in this forward-looking stake where 164 children were examined by the docRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tor, and 155 were inoculated for diphtheria. It is quite in line with the recommendations of the General Board of Relief Society, that the health of the children be safeguarded and the splendid preventive measures now available be used to ensure the health of the little ones before entering school for the coming year. The advancement of any people is measured by the care given to the children, and we certainly extend our sincere congratulations to our stakes in many parts who are acting in accordance with this wise vision of future benefits. Box Elder Stake: 'Box Elder Stake Presidencies, 1911-1931 Wy Ne ee afternoon, June 17, 1931, at the 5th Ward Chapel, past President Lula B. Call and her retiring board members were delightfully entertained by the Relief Society Stake Board and Executive Officers of the fourteen wards of the Box Elder stake. Floor baskets and summer bouquets were used to make the hall attractive, while the banquet table formed as a large U, was made beautiful with a color scheme of blue and gold—the official Relief Society colors. These colors were carried out in candles and bowls of DelPhinium, Bachelor Buttons, and lovely Yellow Coreopsis. President Vera D. Sederholm presided. Community singing was led by Stake (Chorister, Romina Jenson. Mrs. Abbie R. Madson, of the stake board, was toastmistress. Toasts were given to the past presidents by Mrs. Louie B. Call, president of the 3rd Ward Relief Society, and past presidents Sarah P. Stohl, Minnie H. Jenson and Lula B. Call re- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 583 BOX ELDER STAKE PRESIDENCIES, 1911-1931 sponded. A toast to the retiring Lillian D. Lillywhite. Musical board members was given by Leah Reeder of the stake board, followed by responses from Mae Tyson and Annie H. Littlewood. Counselor May M. Horsley presented an appropriate gift to the six guests of honor, who were: Lula B. Call, Annie H. Littlewood, Mae Tyson, Ada L. Johnson, May N. Balls and numbers 'were rendered during the serving, consisting of steel guitar. Solos, by Carrie L. Baird, president of the Ist Ward Relief Society; and a vocal number by Mrs. Connie M. Peters. An unusual item of interest was the presence of four complete groups of successive stake executive officers. 584 Franklin Stake (Franklin Ward): ENTERTAINERS AT "WORLD TOUR" N the afternoon of August 11, 1931, the Franklin Ward Relief Society carried out a very entertaining and highly educational program. Ninety members, and the entire Bishopric, were taken to four different homes, each of which represented a country of the world. At Mrs. G. L. Wright's, in a cleverly designed tea-garden, Japan was featured. Mrs. Kanow and her three daughters in beautiful native RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE costumes, entertained in song and dance; the mother sang in native tongue, accompanied by Japanese koto. Mrs. A. H. Parkin, and daughters Melba and Marjorie, entertained in true Holland fashion. At Mrs. Isabel Scarborough's Lucile Staley and Hazel Olverson in a dialogue as "Pat and Bridget," and the 'Blarney Stone," furnished ripples of laughter at the same time creating a keen sympathy for the dear Irish folk. On the wide lawn at Bishop B. R. Parkinson's, with flowers in every nook and corner, Hawaii was successfully represented. Luana and Lera Packer, with steel guitars and real native dress, entertained charmingly with appropriate songs, while five small girls danced around as daughters of the "Sunny Isles." At each of these homes, refreshments typical of the country represented, were served by the hostess, assisted by some of the visiting teachers of her district. Japanese rice sandwiches and puffed rice, root beer, potato salad, and Hawaiian fruit cocktail, constituted the main part of the menu. The cooperative spirit manifested was very commendable. Cars were provided for all. This speaks well for the Bishopric and the Relief Society in this busy farming community. The stake board of Relief Society was represented by two members. The Cup By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman I have known palmy days of enchantment and bliss, I have thrilled with life's zest and its joys, I have known love's enrapturing ravishing kiss; And it all has been mixed with alloys. I have known sorrow and I have known pain, I have known death again and again. Brimming the cup and I drank to the lees— It has brought me to God—on my knees—on my knees. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto-—Charity Never Faileth ' THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. MRS. MRS. MRS. Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrg. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion LOUISE YATES ROBISON - AMY BROWN LYMAN - - JULIA A. F. LUND - - Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - -_ Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen 2 President First Counselor - - Second Counselor - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs, Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs Lizzie (Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Miter - - - - - - - - Manager - 5 3 - - ' Assistant Minecuer - c 5 - f Mary Connetty KimpBatui Louise Y. Rosison Amy Brown Lyman' VoL. XVIII OCTOBER, 1931 No. 10 EDITORIAL The Harvest "By what things a man sinneth by these he is punished." —Solomon. "Be sure your sins will find you out." S we look at the fields of A ripening grain, at the vineyards with their abundant yield, at the vines with their luscious melons, at the trees laden with fruit, we rejoice in the bounteous harvest. As we behold the flowers with their varied hues, the brush and trees turning gold and brown and red, we revel in the beauty we behold in mountain and vale, on river bank and craggy steep. As we read of "Ye passing of the aged who have labored long and faithfully and who have departed leaving memories of their many good deeds and worthy accomplishments, and who leave a numerous posterity of worthy descendants, we rejoice that the harvest of their lives has been so bounteous. B UT not always is the account so satisfying to contemplate. Many are forfeiting their lives in their mad pursuit of excitement and pleasure. They are paying a terrible price for the gratification of their appetites, lusts, and passions. Each day as we read the papers we are appalled at the loss of life, and still more disturbed when investigation dis- 586 closes what preceded the tragedies —smoking, drinking, gambling, loss of modesty, failure to hold sacred sex relationships and standards have all too often paved the way for the catastrophe. Auto accidents add a high toll to the mortality lists, and a big percentage of these are caused through wild and careless driving. All too often the innocent are injured or killed and the reckless ones escape. Boating and swimming add to the casualties because proper precautions were not taken. Life is a sacred, precious gift. It should be guarded so that the years of the earth span may not be shortened but profitably spent. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE W HILE mothers cannot compel their children to observe the laws of life, while they cannot make them walk the paths of rectitude and safety, yet they can and are obligated to teach them the beauty and safety of right living and to point out the evils that follow wrong doing. Every child in his own home should have impressed upon him the inevitability of law. He should learn that "he that sows to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption," while "he that sows to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting." He should be taught that goodness and righteousness are beautiful, that sin is ugly and that the lasting satisfactions of life result from right living. Back to Our Routine UR vacations are over. Weare all back to the routine of our lives. The auxiliaries are again offering wonderful opportunities. We are going to get out of the work much or little in proportion to what we put into it. We hope our Relief Society women will determine first to study more systematically, thoroughly and continuously this winter than ever before; and secondly, that they will carry out their good resolutions. They are busy women and will have to systematize their work in order to get the time from household routine for mental refreshment. It will help them to reach this desired end if many superfluities are banished, if time is allotted for much desired study, and the schedule adhered to. A Concrete Suggestion E call 'our readers' attention to a delightful little story, "The Old Teapot," on page 554 of this issue. Sister McKenzie, the Magazine agent in Wasatch Ward in Salt Lake City, writes that she has had difficulty in securing many subscriptions because the sisters say _they haven't the money. Her experiences suggested the story which, she writes, is her first, and she is now sixty-five years of age! We think she has been hiding her talent under a bushel. The suggestions offered will be a boon to many who are hard pressed. All too many college boys. And girls are turned forth from the schools without having been trained to think. They may know a language or two, some history, etc., but they haven't been led to think things through. Sister McKenzie has demonstrated that she can think a problem through and find a feasible solution. We hope more of our readers will send in concrete suggestions for helping out in this time of depression and financial need. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (Tirst Week in December ) Select Readings: Second Nephi, chapters 1 to 4 inclusive. Make notes, first of the prophecies mentioned, and next of the doctrines taught. Tue Boox or MorMon—LITERARY ASPECTS or THE NEPHITE RECORD It is sometimes urged that the Book of Mormon has no literary merits at all. This is said because in its superficial aspects that volume does not conform to the standards which we have acquired in writing. The book, we are told, abounds in errors of grammar, it uses too many words to tell its story, and its structure is not what it might be. All this we must concede, if we are to be honest with ourselves. But what of it? Scott and Cooper and Dickens are by no means impeccable in their grammar and rhetoric, and much that they say could be left out with no loss to the effectiveness of their stories. Are we then to throw these authors into the discard, quit reading such books as Ivanhoe, the Last of the Mohicans, and David Copperfield? Not at all. Because these writers have qualities that are far higher than mere grammatical and _ rhetorical correctness. They all tell capital stories, they all have interesting situations, they all have vivid characterization, and at least one of them has rare humor and pathos. Stevenson and Walter Pater have perfect style, but as story tellers they are not in the same class as Scott, Cooper, and Dickens. It is much the same with the Bock of Mormon. Although the work may be deficient in some of the minor qualities of style, that is no sign that it has no literary values whatever. For the fact is that the Nephite record has some very striking and beautiful expressions, and it abounds in a variety of characters that stand out in the mind. Perhaps it will not be amiss here to inquire how it came about that the literary style of the Book of Mormon is what it ls, especially since its literary defects have been made the basis" for attacks on its divine origin. Is the language of the Nephite record the Lord's or Joseph Smith's? If, on the one hand, the language is the Lord's how is it that he does not speak in the most perfect English, as one would naturally expect that he would? The fact that the style of the 'book is imperfect, on this assumption, would go to throw doubt on its divine origin—in the estimation of adverse critics. And then, on the other hand, if the language of the work is the Prophet's, how can we reconcile that fact with its claim to being an inspired product? Here, then, is our problem. The only solution of the problem is to admit that the language is the Prophet's, although the thoughts, the material, of the book was revealed. It is a safe assumption that the Lord does not do for man what man can do for himself. That would be to dwarf man's powers, to stay his development. 'Joseph Smith did not know, and could not know, anything 588 about the Lehites and the Jaredites. So God revealed it to him. Likewise the Prophet knew nothing of the language they used. Hence the Lord prepared the urim and thummim for the purpose of enabling him to understand that ancient tongue. He did know English, however— the English that! Was spoken in his neighborhood, the English that one in his circumstances could have got without training. Here is a passage from the Doctrine and Covenants which shows indirectly how the translation of the Book of Mormon was accomplished: Oliver Cowdery wanted to trarislate. He asked the Propliet for the privilege. His request was granted. But when he tried, he failed to get the required results. Then caine the explanation in a revelation to him. Through Joseph. "Behold, you have not understood; you ire supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right. But if it be not right, yeu shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong; therefore you cannot write that which is sacred save it be given you from me. Now, if you had known this you could have translated." And here are some conclusions that we must inevitably draw from these statements: First, that the way described in the passage was most likely the way in which the Prophet translated. Secondly, the translator having got the thought on the plates, he set it down in such language as he had at his - forceful way. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE command, endeavoring to express it exactly as it was on the plates. Thirdly, after it had been set down, the translator was to decide whether it was absolutely correct or not by the way he felt; if it was right, his bosom "burned within him," and if it was wrong he had a "stupor of thought." Fourthly, the whole process was carried on under the divine influence and power, because it was "sacred.". Incidentally it may be remarked here, as growing out of the statement made above, that the circumstancés connected with the appearance of the Book of Mormon and the effort put forth in the translation of it, was a primary means of educating Joseph Smith in the work he was to do in the world.—}- First, his long wait for the plates taught him patience, obedience, and knowledge of the ways of the Lord. Secondly, the effort he expended on the translation of it trained, dise¢iplined his mind in the same ways the mind is always trained and disciplined. Thirdly, the time he spent on the translation, coupled with the effort he put forth, gave him a knowledge of the principles of salvation that, it would seem, nothing else could have given. For it is well known that to translate a work of any kind, especially if it be a work containing thought, forces one to think clearly. And in the case of the Prophet the mind was, in a way, checked up in its thinking. So far as matters of style are concerned, three things may be said of the Book of Mormon. One has already been suggested—isolated expressions of truth in a rather A second is the theme. Is this high or low? And the third is clearness, as compared with the Bible. Vigor, clearness, and a high theme are literary qual- LESSON DEPARTMENT ities that are not to be overlooked in writing. Let us take up each of these in turn. Some of the rather striking things in the Book of Mormon—purple patches, in fact—may be given here. Not all that can be found there by any means, but enough to give an idea as to whether, in point of phrasing alone, the Nephite record is as contemptible as is sometimes represented. 1. "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy. 2. "I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing. ") 3. "The Lord giveth no erond ment unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth of them. 4. "O, that I were an angel and could have the wish of my heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people. /7.. 4 / 5. "Ye have called me your king; and if I, whom ye call your king, do labor to serve you, then ought ye not to labor to serve one another? And also if I, whom ye call your king have spent his days in your service and in the service of God without meriting any thanks from you, O how you ought to thank your Heavenly Father. 6. "I will tell you of the wrestle which I had before God, before I received a remission of my sins. Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forest; and the words of my father, which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my 589 heart. And my soul hungered. And I kneeled down before my Maker, and cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication. And all the day did I cry unto him, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens. And there came a voice unto me, saying, 'Enos, thy sins are forgiven, and thou shalt be blessed.' And I knew that God could not lie; wherefore my guilt was swept away. 7. "If it were possible that you could have just men to be your kings, * * * then it would be expedient that ye should have kings to rule over you. * * * But because all men are not just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you. For behold, how much iniquity doth one king cause to be committed, and what destruction. * * * Ye cannot dethrone an iniquitous king, save it be through much contention and the shedding of much blood. For he hath his friends in iniquity, and he keepeth his guards about him. He teareth up the laws of those who have reigned in righteousness before him, and enacteth laws after the manner of his own wickedness. Thus an unrighteous king doth pervert the ways of all righteousness. It is expedient that such abominations should come to an end. "Therefore, choose you by the voice of this people, judges, that ye may be judged according to the laws which have been given by your fathers. It is not common that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right, but it is common for the lesser part of the people to desire that which is not right. Therefore, this shall ye observe and make it your law—to do your business by the voice of the people. And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose 590 iniquity, then is the time that God will visit you with destruction." These passages are well worth attention from more than one angle. They are not inappropriately worded. They are crystal clear on their face. The thought in all of _ them points to the universal in human life—to truths, that is, which hold good under all conditions of life. And at least one of them, the first, suggests an answer to an ageold question as to the purpose of life. Observe the use of the word "Joy" instead of "happiness." Every book has a general atmosphere, by reason of which it is good or bad or merely neutral in its effects. Ifa book is wholesome, it is largely because it has a good atmosphere. And atmosphere is created and sustained by means of ideas and characters chiefly. What is the atmosphere of the Book of Mormon? That atmosphere is well put by one of the early converts to "Mormonism''—George Cannon, father of the late president George Q. Cannon. He said, "No wicked man could write such a book as this; and no good man would write it, unless it were true and he were commanded of 'God to do so." Every book, if it can be called a book at all, has a theme also. A theme is a general thought, or purpose, running through jt like a thread; it is the thought for which the work was produced. Whether the book is a work of fiction, an historical narrative, or the development of a subject through explanation or argument, it must nevertheless have a theme by which the details are tied together. And the work is valuable, other things remaining the same, according as its theme is high or low, universal or local in its appeal. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The theme of the Book of Mormon is expressed in what may be called the preface to that volume, written by Moroni. It is "the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations." } If there can be a higher theme than that, one would be hard put to find it. First, it clears up an ambiguity of the New Testament as to the divinity of Christ. And then, secondly, it shows the universality of idea of God's interest in mankind. As for the characters in the Book of Mormon, the topic is too large for treatment in this place. So this aspect of the subject is left to a question, and may be dealt with at the discretion of the/teacher. Questions 1. How important is the form in which an idea or a book is cast as compared with the idea or the theme? Explain with reference to the Book of Mormon. 2. Read or quote some of the statements of the Record, to show (a) their good phrasing, (b) their truth, and (c) their universality. 3. What is meant by a theme? Give the themes of works like Silas Marner, by George Eliot, or /nfluencing Human Behavior, by Overstreet. Why is the theme of the Book of Mormon a high one? 4. Take some one of the characters in the Nephite Record and, after reading all that the Record says about them, work up an essay or a short speech in which you give (a) a brief account of what the characters did, (b) what they said and thought, and (c) what they were in their qualities. Be sure, however, not to make anything up, but to have authority in the text for everything you say. . How do you account for the errors in grammar and composition in the Book of Mormon? What 591 bearing does the answer to this question have on the claims to divine origin for the work? Work and Business (Second Week in December) WVatchword: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be unto this house."—Luke 10:5. Text: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God."—Mark 10:14. TEACHER'S Topic FoR DECEMBER From this text we may draw three lessons. The first is our duty to our children in directing them to Jesus; the second, in keeping ourselves active and interested in, and devoted to the Church; the third, that in order to enter the kingdom of God one must have childlike faith, humility and love. Interpreting the meaning of our Savior into modern language, we would translate the text into words something like this: "Encourage and teach your children to come to me; persuade them by a righteous example and influence to love me; do not hinder them, nor cause them to turn from me by your own thoughtlessness and indifference; because children are naturally full of faith and sweetness and _ friendliness and love." Children, in their early years, live in a world apart from ours. They are very near to heaven and things spiritual. Before they are very old, however, they begin to feel their own personality, and the possibilities of self. In developing this new found individuality they are certain to become self-willed and intractable. These early human tendencies checked and directed in a jproper manner will avert improper thoughts and the forming of little habits which may lead into disobedience and sin. While they are young it is a simple matter to instil into their eager, searching minds, the lovely truths of our Gospel. They can be readily brought to understand that cleanness is more attractive than foulness; that honesty is more gratifying than dishonor; that harmony with parents and with Jesus is more delightful than the unhappiness which discord and opposition bring. There is small danger of children disregarding the admonition of their parents if they have been taught to love, honor and obey them. Children need love and sympathy. They should always have the deep consciousness of the love their parents have for them. Without lowering our standards or retracting from our position of integrity, we would do well to try to understand the modern viewpoint. While still holding fast to our ideals, we should acquire a sympathy for the struggles of youth. Afraid of life and ignorant of its problems, they assume a bravado which they do not feel. Assailed on every hand by doubts, skepticism, and iniquity, unless they are held securely in the bonds of love, they are bound to wander. Youth resents regulations and restrictions unless back of these is the love that will make them appreciate and understand the reason for guidance. It is impossible to ry 592 legislate virtue into people. We cannot force righteousness on anyone. Jesus taught us that. All through the Bible, and our other Church works, we read exhortations to parents to lead their children in the ways of God. "And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. "And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: "And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shall talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. "And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes. "And thou shalt write them upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the posts of thy house, and on thy gates." —Deuteronomy 6:5-9. "Only take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life: but teach them thy sons, and thy sons' sons;'—-Deuteronomy 4:9. Environment, example, and attending of meetings are necessary and vital. But there must be something more. For every flower in your garden there are perhaps a thousand weeds. For every holy thought in the world there are a thousand vicious, destructive ones. Children, more than adults, come in contact with these. Unless young people are securely grounded in faith, and trained in discrimination, they will succumb to the influences by which they are constantly attacked. Literature (Third Week in December ) THE SHorT STorY IN SWEDEN Sweden has given at least three world figures to literature in this last half century: August Strindberg, a novelist, dramatist, and story writer of contemporary Scandinavian life; Selma Lagerlof, known best for her novels and tales that depict the soul of the northern peasant, and who writes with imagination and spiritual fervor; and Per Hallstrom, a scientist who evolved an almost perfect form of writing short stories, the greater part of which dwelt on the theme of death. All of them belong -to the twentieth century, Strindberg, the oldest, dying in 1912, and the other two still living and writing. In the text there is a story from each, but because Selma Lagerlof, whose writing is nearest our own beliefs is a woman and one of the great world figures, she will be given the major consideration in this lesson. It is doubtful if any class instructor will want to use the Strindberg story. He was the leader of Swedish Naturalism and his "Love and Bread" is Naturalism in one of its most unpleasant forms. In addition it would take a great deal of studying to understand him. He was a restless soul—an atheist, a simple believer in the Bible, an intense Socialist, an extreme anti-Socialist, a worshipper of Nature, a devout follower of civilization, a humanist, and one of the greatest woman haters of all history—and three times married. All his life he was LESSON DEPARTMENT a solitary man, stricken with a persecution mania, and never finding peace. But his influence will be felt, not only in our time, but also in the ages to come. His genius touched all forms of writing; it was greatest in the drama. There have been few writers who have been able to throw aside men's thin surface personality and get down to the elementary human as has Strindberg. However, he is not for every reader. It was in the 90's that Per Hallstrom became the great master of short story writing in Sweden. He was born in Stockholm in 1866. While he was still a young man he came to America and lived in Chicago as a scientist. Even in his youth he was ruled almost solely by his intelligence, and he did not find America to be a land of promise— for him at least. He went back to Sweden and began to write seriously. He can describe the realities of life well enough, yet his imagination rules his writings. Swedish subjects did not always give him enough play for this quality, and from time to time he ventured into the lore of the Southern countries and into the life of the Middle Ages. Some of his best known stories are: "Stray Birds," "Purple," "A Secret Idyl,"' "A Humble Tragedy," "Melchior," and "The Falcon." Death, in some form moves through all of them. "The Falcon," found in the text, is a masterpiece of the Medieval story. In it beauty and horror are almost inseparable. From the standpoint of short story, technique— smoothness of plot, handling of characters, harmony of style and content, and touch of fantasy~—it could scarcely be bettered. Each word is chosen as carefully as an old master selected his colors. It is the story of a cruel nobleman who caused the death of a peas- 593 ant lad, because the lad had rescued the nobleman's favorite falcon and failed to return it. Hallstrom uses a favorite device of Medieval stories —very much like the one Shakespeare used in "The Merchant of Venice." He has the selfish nobleman resurrect an ancient law, one whereby a person who had stolen a falcon with the mark of a knight on his foot must pay a sum of silver or six ounces of flesh, torn from his ribs by the beak of a famished falcon. The story is filled with wordjeweled pictures: the Iceland falcon flying, Renaud's joy in this noble bird and his mysticism, the proud Medieval ladies who came to see the death scene, and a dozen others. The last sentence makes a perfect ending. It shows the viciousness of the nobleman, the cruelty of the boy's death, and the meting of justice to the falcon that had dared to forget its master. Some instructors may prefer this story because of its perfection of form and style, but there are two reasons against its choice. It is not representative of Swedish life and its pervading tone is that of sadness. Selma Lagerlof reveals the country people of Sweden. She was of the country herself, born in Vermland an 1850 on the estate. Called Marbacka. Her family had lived in Vermland for hundreds of years; she grew up loving and revering her home and its customs, its legends, and its people. During her younger years the upper class to which she belonged still lived a festive and hospitable life on the country estates. The influence of these years is found in many of her books. It was Miss Lagerlof's intention to become a teacher. She went to Stockholm to prepare for the examinations which all prospective teach- 594 ers must pass. As she studied, she thought often of the old stories and decided to combine them into a novel. The Northern countries in those days were writing with sober realism, and her book was to be filled with gayety and knightly chivalry. Not until the 90's, when she decided to forsake the ways of contemporary realism, was she able to produce her book. "Gosta Berling's Saga" was its title, and it is one of the great books of all time. It is a story swarming in characters and plots, and all are bound together by the charming and shiftless figure of Gosta Berling. In the fairy tale she has also won a permanent place. In this form she gives most of her psychology and philosophy of life. Like Hans Christian Anderson she gives a character to animals and life to inanimate things, but her tales have one serious drawback. She sometimes overdoes the moral and she occasionally falls into child-like sentimentality. She has a deep and cheerful faith and her books all teach love and charity and tolerance. She is extremely popular in Sweden. In 1909 she was awarded the Nobel prize in literature, and since then her fame has gone into many countries. Critics say that four of her books, at least, will become part of the world's literary heritage: "Gosta Berling's Saga," "Jerusalem," a story of the religious movement among the peasants, "The Adventures of Nils," collections of Swedish fairy tales and folk lore, and "The Christ 'Legends," charming tales of miracles. Briefly summing her characteristics, she is a vigorous and original writer with a vivid and inventive imagination, and imbued with a true Christian regard for her fellow men. For this series of lessons it would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have been fortunate if the textbook authors had chosen one of Miss Lagerlof's Christ tales in the place of "The Eclipse." However, the "Christ Legends" is available in translation and some instructors may be able to find the book and use a different story. "The Christmas Rose," found in the collection or in a book called '"Sweden's Best Stories" is beautifully told and will be an especially appropriate subject for this time of year. "The Eclipse" is the story of an old peasant woman and tells of country life in a wild and solitary region. In the guise of the old country woman the author gives her philosophy of life—faith in the new day; courage to live it; and thankfulness for every manifestation of God no matter how humble a person's circumstances may be. Prosaic as the subject is, Miss Lagerlof shows us a glimpse in old Beda's worship of the sun, of the mysticism that permeates all her writing. Miss Lagerlof's description of the people in this story will remind some of us of life in the remote villages of Utah and other western states a few decades ago: the men working all day in the fields; the children in school; the older children gone from the village to far away places; the women working in their cabins but anxious for companionship.; and the peaceful Sabbath. But there is one great difference. These Swedish people, living close to the dark mountains, were often without the sun. Another difference was the women's fear of pleasure, merely for the sake of pleasure. They must have some good reason to come together for an afternoon of talk and eating of specially prepared food.. And it must never be on a holy or Sabbath day. Old Beda wanted to give a party, LESSON DEPARTMENT but she could think of no good reason to have one. She had only a cat—and anyone knew it was foolish to give a party for a cat. In her searchings she found that there was to be an eclipse of the sun. She gave a party; yet she was a little fearful of giving the explanation. It was not until the warmth of the newly eclipsed stn touched the women and made them cheerful that she dared to sing: "Thy shining sun goes up again, I thank thee, O my Lord!" This story with its one well-defined character and its lack of plot is quite typical of part of Miss Lagerlof's work. It portrays the people in a sympathetic light; describes the country she loves; and is as simple and sincere in style and structure as the people of whom she wrote. Because it is a story of character and local setting, it must be read and not re-told to be appreciated. Questions on "The Eclipse" 1. In what ways is this story typically Swedish? In what ways does it have a universal appeal? 2. What do you know of Miss Lagerlof's philosophy of life from reading this story? 3. Will you be able to recognize other of her stories after reading' this one? Why? 4. Does this story contain any of the mysticism that runs through her works? 5. Was Beda a pleasant, well balanced person? Give reasons for your answer. 6. Why did Beda choose to celebrate the day of the eclipse? How did she make the other women appreciate her feeling for the sun? 7. Why was it necessary for the women to find a special day before they could celebrate? 595 8. What things in this story show the seriousness of the Northern people? 9. Briefly describe the every-day lives of these people. 10. Which is emphasized the most in "The Eclipse," plot or character? *Annunciation Day, the 25th of March, sometimes called "Our Lady's Day.' Supposed to be the date when the angel Gabriel announced to Mary the incarnation of Christ. Suggestive list for further reading in Scandinavian literature (English translations ): Bjornson—"T hree Comedies," "Armljot Glline,' "Beyond Our Power," "The New System," "Poems and Songs." Bojer—'"The Face of the World," "The 'Great Hunger," "A Pilgrimage." Hallstrom—*Selected Short Stories," Hamsun—"Children of the Age," "Dreamers," "Growth of the Soil," "Hunger." Ibsen—'"'Collected Works." Lagerlof—"Christ Legends," "Gosta Berling's Saga," "Emperor of Portugallia," "From a Swedish Homestead," 'Further Adventures of Nils,' "Marbacka," "The Holy City." Nexo—"Days in the Sun," '"'Pelle, the Conqueror." Rolvaagt—"Giants in the Earth," "Peder Victorious." Strindberg—''Plays," First Series, Second Series, Third and Fourth Series, "Married." Sigrid Undset—''Jenny." Modern Swedish Masterpieces-— "Norway's Best Stories," "Sweden's Best Stories,' 'Denmark's Best Stories." Social Service (Fourth Week in December) PERsoNALITY Stupy: INFLUENCING PEOPLE By LETTERS AND CONVERSATION (Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 71-139) What degree of ability do you now have to use your mother tongue correctly and effectively in the various situations of life? Are you making any really serious efforts to further improve whatever of this ability you may have? Since most of us have little occasion to write for publication or to deliver public addresses we may do well in this discussion to confine ourselves to the more common matters of letter-writing and conversation. Much has already been said and written about how to improve our use of language. Most of these discussions, however, take up literary matters—things we must know about grammar, composition and the more mechanical aspects of the problem. It is our purpose to emphasize another important point of view—one that is seldom given the prominence that it should have. It is that both writing and speaking are essentially psychological enterprises. Language is an important form of human behavior. It is the chief means we use to stimulate our associates so as to influence their behavior in some desired manner. Also by means of language we respond to many of the stimuli which affect us. It is a means we have of expressing our personalities. Our text has a good deal to say about this point of view. How foolish it is to believe that the mere matter of taking one or more courses in rhetoric, composition or oral expression is enough to make one's writing and conversation worthwhile, artistic and effective! The lack of such opportunities do not mean that one has nothing of genuine worth to express nor that one cannot cultivate the ability to say it well. Overstreet is quite in agreement with other thoughtful writers when he insists that it is the person behind the words that counts. _ Consider' Lincoln's Gettysburg address and "note how inevitably personality shines through the printed words." "Whether we will it or not," says Overstreet, "it is the personality back of the writing which gives the writing such power or lack of power as it possesses."' And then he adds, "the problem of effective writing is most deeply of all psychological." Professor Suzzallo recognizes that back of all worthwhile communications are always worthwhile personalities for says he: ok & > there can be no cultivation of the power to use English without an adequate development of enriched thought to be expressed. * * * We cannot transmit the power of using English. In the last analysis good English usage is a matter of selfcultivation." It will be recognized that we are again stressing the main theme of our courseée—the importance of livwing a rich and abundant life. This is where Jesus placed the emphasis, for he says, "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly." (Jno. 10:10). And we must not substitute the ability to repeat this or sim- LESSON DEPARTMENT ilar phrases for a sincere effort to actually live the life. Now of course this "life" or personality enhancement that we so frequently bring to the front has many different phases and we shall be unable to discuss here more than a few of these. Just at this time we | wish to make a few observations about the tendency we all have to) go to seed in relation to language problems. Be quite satisfied with superficial evidences of life such as the ability to walk about, to eat three meals a day, and so on. In significant respects we may have died years ago. We may have gradually lost the evidences of life and youth. When did you experience your last real enthusiasm? To what extent are you playful? How often do you afford pleasant surprises to those who know you best? Do you tend to conserve your energy so much that you avoid energy-consuming hobbies? How many useful new words have you recently added to your vocabulary? Do you object to using a dictionary or encyclopedia? Are you content to have someone else do your thinking for you? Do you act on the theory that social progress takes place automatically? Do you lazily wish for God to force the Millennium upon us and to begin solving our problems for us? Do you think that all radical changes in point of view, say in politics or religion, should be made by the other fellow—not you? Do your habits of thought and action tend to be of the ready-made and sober variety—such as befit a very proper average man? Is your speech and letter writing crowded with cliches, (pronounce kle shays) those stereotyped and commonplace expressions that we meet with on every hand? Would your friends We seem very prone to 597 tend to class you as a bromide or a sulphite? (See Magazine for November, 1930, pages 631-632.) Perhaps we have been helped by these questions to see that we have [2 need to resist tendencies which give us away to our friends as being more dead right now than we should like to admit. It is obvious that we should not be too self-satisfied and that we should impress people as being really alive—as being breezy and refreshing to be with. We must \ be willing to pay the price in docility, activity, growing pains, and sincere efforts to keep growing and developing. If we but try persistently enough we can all make significant progress in developing the kind of personality traits that will make our letter-writing and _ conversations have something back of them which will be readily recognized as interesting and of great worth. We come now to another fundamental consideration. It is that the successful speaker or writer must understand and appreciate the probable emotional and intellectual responses of his listener or reader. As we have already intimated the problem is not merely one of self-expression, but it is also one of communication. It is important to measure one's success in terms of the effect that is likely to be produced upon the person or persons to whom we are writing or speaking. » The content and style of a well- 'written letter is influenced quite as much by the personality of the one who is to receive it as by the one who writes it. Who will deny that congregations have much to do with the kind of sermons that are preached to them? [Even art and literature cannot wholly escape being judged by their contribution to life and the kind of life lived by the appreciators of art and literature 598 will in turn be reflected to some extent in the products presented for their enjoyment. In writing a letter we should do our best to put ourselves in the place of the one who is to receive it. Just what particular things will he want or need to know about? What are his hobbies, interests and desires? What are his dislikes? How is he likely to take this or that particular bit of news? What is the probable nature of some of his recent experiences? What are his sentiments toward me and the things that I like especially or dislike. Will he be bored by the various things I tend most frequently to mention in my letters to other correspondents? What is his background of experience and education? Will I make the wrong impression if I adopt a chatty or familiar style? Have I shown due regard for his sincerity and earnestness in those matters where we might tend to disagree?. It is a fact that many letters are uninteresting and fall short of being as effective as they could be, simply because their writers have failed to even try to consider the persons to whom they were sent. They may be quite well written if judged wholly from the point of view of self-expression. Only a supreme egotist could assume that he has no obligation in a letter to consider anyone else than himself. The Golden Rule applies here just as it does in other social relations. (Matt. 7:12.) The writer was impressed recently with the ability of the psychologist, William James, as a letter-writer. Although he was a person of great achievements and had a right to assume that others would gladly attend to whatever he had to say, he could adapt himself even to the thought processes of a little child. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I quote here part of a letter to his eight year old son. "The young man of the house had shot a little wolf called a coyote in the early morning. The heroic little animal lay on the ground, with his big furry ears, and his clean white teeth, and his jolly cheerful little body, but his brave little life was gone. It made me think how brave all these living things are. Here little coyote was, without any clothes or house or books or anything, with nothing but his own naked self to pay his way with, and risking his life so cheerfully— and losing it—just to see if he could pick up a meal near the hotel. He was doing his coyote-business like a hero, and you must do your boy-business, and I my man-business bravely too, or else we won't be worth as much as that little coyote." We see here how Professor James was able to write a choice letter that no doubt the little boy was glad to keep and re-read many times. What do you think about the probability that it actually influenced the boy in the way that the father desired? In the art of conversation the same principles apply. We need to be worth listening to and we need to have due regard for the listener. Conversation should be easier than writing for we can adjust more readily to the likes and dislikes of our listeners. Appropriate physical expression and a pleasing voice help a good deal. Then too we can extend the courtesy of being good listeners and that predisposes the members of the group to listen with consideration to what we may have to say. Conversation at its best is certainly a very high accomplishment. A person can be recognized as being well-educated when he uses his language "with power and _ beauty." When we have such people engaged in friendly conversation we have what has been called "the supreme and ultimate product of civilization." Contrast this with what one hears much too often. There may be LESSON DEPARTMENT harsh rasping voices sometimes even fairly yelling at each other. Or one may be carrying on in a dull monotone while the other occasionally merely grunts a very brief answer. Slang and profanity sometimes crop out and mar what is said. At least they are to be regarded as confessions of weakness rather than evidences of power. Nice shades of meaning are not expressed because of the very limited vocabulary possessed, or because the words that are known are overworked or used carelessly. Sometimes there is not even an attempt to say very much. At other times what is said is mere worthless gossip or even slander. Let us make a genuine and persistent effort to improve the character of both our letter-writing and our conversations. Some Problems for Discussion 1. Kimball says, "In the art of speaking and writing good English there is no tool of so great importance as a good authoritative dictionary." Study such a dictionary for about an hour to find out the different types of help one may obtain from it. List your findings and report briefly to the class. Do you agree with Kimball's statement? Give reasons. 2. In a recent magazine article these are the things mentioned to include in your conversations and letters if you want to be sure to make people hate you: "I don't agree with you at all. * * * I don't like your friend. * * * Anybody could do that. * * * I know better. * * * Tl tell you exactly where you failed. * * * As I was saying. * * I used to think so a while back. * * That is nothing but prejudice," etc. What do you think of people who do this? What sort of phrases would you substitute for these if you wished to make a better im- 599 pression? What more fundamental change would likely be necessary than a mere change of phrases? 3. Comment in relation to this lesson upon the following description of the educated man by J. H. Newman: "Fle knows when to speak and when to be silent; he is able to converse, he is able to listen; he can ask a question pertinently, and gain a lesson seasonably, when he has nothing to impart himself; he is ever ready, yet never in the way; he is a pleasant companion, and a comrade you can depend upon; he knows when to be serious and when to trifle, and he has a sure tact which enables him to trifle with gracefulness and to be serious with effect * * * He can recollect to whom he is speaking; he guards against unreasonable allusions, or topics which may irritate; he is seldom prominent in conversation, and never wearisome." 4. Many people believe and act as though "our greatness and welfare (were) proved by our being very rich." Contrast this standard with the conversation standard referred to in the lesson or with the following from Matthew Arnold: "Consider these people, then, their way of life, their habits, their manners, the very tones of their voice; look at them attentively; observe the literature they read, the things which give them pleasure, the words which come forth out of their mouths, the thoughts which make the furniture of their minds." 5. Explain what type of person is referred to as a bromide; a sulphite. Explain and illustrate what is meant by a cliche. 6. Give the best practical suggestions you know of for improving one's written English. (See Magazine for October, 1930, page 575, problems 7-8.