			CANTON, ILL. Feb. 14, 1877.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	I thought I would inform you of our lit-
tle organization in Canton, that you may
learn of our prosperity and desire of be-
coming united with the sisters in Zion.
	We were organized into a Relief Society
by Elder D. M. Stuart, assisted by Elder
Middleton, at a conference held December
31, 1876. We meet every two weeks and
are abundantly blessed with the holy spirit,
engaging in singing, prayer and conversing
upon the pure principles of the gospel that
are calculated to exalt all those who are

[Column 3]
humble and obedient enough to receive
them.
	We read the EXPONENT in our meetings
which is truly interesting and edifying,
and it has proven to be a most valuable ar-
ticle in this vicinity in removing a great
deal of the prejudice existing in the minds
of many, who have been blinded by the
false reports that are circulated abroad by
some who have at one time known the
truth and turned from it and by others who
are totally ignorant of the Latter-day work.
We take great pleasure in reading the let-
ters from the Relief Societies in the differ-
ent settlements of Utah stating their pro-
gress and the good spirit enjoyed, and wish
we were there to listen to the wise counsels
of our sisters who are experienced.
	We are quite a distance from Zion but
we feel to exert our influence for good
though our numbers are small, and we real-
ize that we can do but little, being sur-
rounded by those who are opposed to the
doctrines we advocate, we find a great
many influences to contend with; but all
the sisters seem to be united and desirous
of doing all in their power for the good of
the cause in contributing their means for
the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, and
we trust that if we are faithful and diligent
in our efforts, we may be instrumental in
bringing some to a knowledge of the truth
of the Gospel which the world terms "Mor-
monism."
	We desire to be kindly remembered by
our sisters in Zion. Praying for the success
of your little paper and all institutions of
Improvement, I remain your co-worker in
the cause of Truth.
