EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Feeling a deep interest in the welfare of
the young ladies of Utah, I deem it a priv-
ilege to address them through the columns
of your valuable and interesting paper,
through which we learn of the grand im-
provements and enterprise of the sisters
from year to year.
	Young ladies you must perceive now
that you have superior advantages to im-
prove your minds and advance in the scale
of intelligence to those who have lived a
generation before you. It is necessary you
should hasten to step forward and qualify
yourselves for usefulness in life; house-
work to most young girls comes first in
every day experience; and every girl should
strive to acquire a full knowledge of all the
duties of the household; she should be
taught how to work as she is taught how to
read; there is art and skill in the proper use
of the broom; activity and cleanliness both
belong to its use; order and refinement are
required in the chamber for the arrange-
ment of the bed and furniture, but still
more varied and numerous are the duties
of the kitchen. Girls require most training
and the largest experience in the kitchen
which is a laboratory where chemicals are
compounded in the preparation of whole-
some food for the family. If there is one
thing more than another that is really nec-
essary for health it is for a woman to under-
stand how to prepare and cook food. The
necessity of industry, the obligation of
each girl to work for her living, her happi-
ness and her home, nothing is more valua-
ble than to learn to work systematically and
economically; and when extravagant fash-
ions give way as they inevitably must, to
sensible and prudent management in do-
mestic and social circles, the industrious
young woman with consistent ideas, sound
common sense, and adaptability, will hold
the front rank of the women of Utah; such

[Column 2]
will be the ones chosen for friends, wives,
and mothers, to act as counselors with the
brethren.
	Your birth and mission, young girls, is
co-equal with that of the young men, they
are your brothers, and your destiny is alike
eternal. Having been born you are not ex-
empt from the duties life involves, there-
fore study to realize the importance of the
course you pursue here, and do right in
spite of all annoyances and vicissitudes.
Life abounds with opportunities that are
within your reach of improving your minds
and enriching your hearts. Obligations
rest upon each of you for self-improvement,
this obligation in its binding force will run
parallel with your existence through all the
succeeding years of the future; then forget
not that our Father in heaven will require
you to improve, to cultivate yourselves for
it is an obligation he has imposed upon all
His children.
	My dear young ladies, I beseech you to
read history; select the best books that have
been written by the best men and women,
and you may obtain through careful train-
ing of the mind, great wisdom, and make
life a success. Choose the best society, lay
aside light reading, and when you read
sacred things and works of importance,
write on the tablets of your minds the im-
pression given, this will give you wisdom
to act well your part as wives and mothers
and to instruct your children in the paths
of virtue and happiness, and teach them to
walk in your foot prints. When you make
choice of a companion for life, select one
that is in good standing in the church and
kingdom of God, and do not accept of one
who frequents drinking saloons, and places
of that sort; or one who chooses the society
of those who do those things. Shun such
men as you would the poisonous adder, for
they will embitter your whole future exist-
ence.					D. F. Cox.
	Beaver, Feb. 4, '77.


