				AT ROME.

	St. Peter's is the work of an idea, of a
religion, of the human mind in its entire
extent at one period of the world. It is no
longer an edifice destined to contain a vile
people, which we are considering. It is an
edifice destined to contain all the philoso-
phy: all the prayers, all the grandeur, all
the thoughts of man. The walls seem to
rise and to swell out no longer in the pro-
portions of a nation, but in the proportions
of a God! St. Peter's is truly an apotheo-
sis in stone, a monumental transfiguration
of the religion of Christ. The architects
of the gothic cathedrals were sublime bar-
barians, Michael Angelo alone is a philoso-
pher in his conceptions. St. Peter's is
philosophical Christianity, from which the
divine architect banishes superstition and
shadows, and into which he introduced
space, beauty, symmetry and floods of in-
extinguishable light. The incomparable
beauty of St. Peter's at Rome, consists in
in its being a Temple which may be used
by all worshippers—a God-like Temple, if I
may venture to employ that word in rela-
tion to stone. It seems destined to clothe
the idea of God in all the splendor of which
it is capable.
	Were Christianity to perish, St. Peter's
would still remain a universal, eternal, and
rational Temple of whatsoever religion
should succeed the worship of Christ, pro-
vided that religion were of humanity and
of God. It is the most abstract Temple
which the human genius, inspired by a di-
vine idea, has ever constructed here below.
When a visitor enters it he knows not
whether he is entering an ancient or a mod-
ern Temple; no details obstruct the eye, no
symbols distract the thoughts; men of all
sects and creeds enter it with the same re-
spect. They feel that it is a Temple which
can only be inhabited by the idea of God;
and which no other idea can fill.
	Change the Priest, take away the altar,
pull down the pictures, carry off the stat-
ues, nothing is changed, it is still the
House of God, or rather St. Peter's is in
itself alone, the grand symbol and type of
that eternal christianity, which, possessing
in its morality, and in its holiness the germ
of the successive developments of the re-
ligious ideas of all ages and of all men, ex-
pands along with the human reason in pro-
portion as God develops it, holds commun-
ion with God in the light, spreads wide,
and towers aloft in proportion of the human
mind, as the latter expands unceasingly,
and collects all nati[---] into the unity of
one adoration, every [---] more and more
rational, shapes out of all divine, forms one
God alone, and out of all nations one only
humanity. Michael Angelo is the Moses of 
architcetural Catholicism, and as such he
will one day be understood. He has erect-
ed an imperishable ark for future times, a
pantheon of reason purified and rendered
divine.


A SEVERE RETORT.—Fletcher, the Bish-
op of Nismes, was the son of a tallow-
chandler.  A proud duke once endeavored
to mortify the prelate by saying, at a levee,
that he smelt of tallow; to which the other
replied: "I am the son of a tallow-chandler,
'tis true; and if your lordship had been the
same, you would have remained a tallow-
chandler all the days of your life."


