EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The interesting subject of silk raising is
of much importance; and silk may be cul-
tivated as a profitable industry to many of
the inhabitants of this community; the
mulberry tree will grow in most places in
this Territory. If the cultivation of silk
were commenced by this people generally,
an industry for the rising generation would
be created which would be a source of very
great wealth to them in the near future.
What shall be done to find employment for
the coming generation as well as the pres-
ent? The silk industry would provide
many with profitable labor; silk raising,
reeling and manufacturing would employ
many and profit the community.
	The total manufacture of silk in value, in
1874 in America, was twenty million eighty-
two thousand, four hundred and eighty-two
dollars. Would not Utah do well to make
an effort for her share of this immense in-
come? All industries have their commence-
ment, and should have their progress. The
following is said to be a report for 1874:
"Of the different branches of the silk in-
dustry, thrown and spun silk embrace
twenty-six establishments, half being
in New Jersey, with machinery of one
thousand and three horse power, one hun-
dred and twenty-nine thousand, one hun-
dred and seventy-eight throwing spindles;
the number of hands employed in 1874,
was four thousand and twenty-six; amount
of wages paid, nine hundred and forty-five


[Column 1]

thousand, seven hundred and ten dollars;
capital invested, forty-one million two hun-
dred and fifty-two thousand, one hundred
and fifty-two dollars; total product, three
million, eight-hundred and sixty-two thou-
sand, three hundred and twenty-five dol-
lars; including tram and organzine, two
million, nine hundred and eleven thousand
and fifty-five dollars; spun silk, eight hun-
dred thousand dollars; fringe silk, one hun-
dred and nine thousand, two hundred and
seventy dollars, and floss silk, fourty-three
thousand dollars; total weight of product,
five hundred and forty thousand, eight hun-
dred and four pounds."
	This extraordinary and stupendous pro-
duction had its origin, like all other indus-
tries; and other places may follow after and
progress. New Jersey, like many other
places in times past had no silk industry;
but according to preceding facts, immense
wealth has been accumulated. Tooele is a
very fine location for the silk industry, as
well as many other localities. Many of the
people in Tooele no doubt, are very favora-
ble to the cultivation of silk, and we hope
soon to see them commence in the cultiva-
tion of it.
	Salt Lake City has set a good example,
and all other places would do well to form
working committees. One acre of mulberry
trees planted two feet distant in rows and
six feet asunder will be three thousand,
four hundred trees, which method is prob-
ably as good as any (Mr. Hoag, of California,
planted as above stated, and raised two
thousand dollars worth of silk to the acre.)
	Suppose that fifty pounds of silk is raised
to the acre, and worth when reeled twelve
dollars per pound, fifty multiplied by twelve
makes six hundred dollars worth of silk.
The manufacturers will give twelve dollars
per pound reeled, and when it is manufac-
tured into silk goods is worth eighteen dol-
lars per pound, when sold to wholesale pur-
chasers then twenty per cent is added to the
eighteen dollars, which makes twenty-one
dollars and sixty cents. and then the retail
sellers mostly add about thirty per cent,
which makes five dollars and forty cents
more to the first cost, making a total of
twenty-seven dollars.
	Fifty pounds of silk sold at twelve dollars
per pound reeled, is worth a hundred dollars,
when the manufacturer's pay is added and
twenty per cent added by wholesale pur-
chasers makes one thousand and eighty
dollars, then the retailers cost added
amounts to one thousand four hundred and
four dollars. Any family or community,
who have the facilities to raise and reel and
manufacture the productions of one acre of
silk may make a satisfactory profit in its
cultivation. The question is asked is there
any money in it? Undoubtedly there is
wherever there is a market for its sale; if
one thousand dollars in silk can be raised
per acre, which is only one half that has
been accomplished in California; the manu-
facturers will add about one third for their
remuneration, which will then amount to
one thousand five hundred dollars, and add-
ing in this case sixty per cent for the whole-
sale and retail profits, will run up the amount
to about two thousand four hundred dollars.
Those who understand the wholesale and
retail charges in trade, will not think this
calculation overrated.
	 No time ought to be lost in commencing
this valuable industry. The object to be ac-
complished, is to raise, reel and manufac-
ture the silk and then all the benefit of it
will be secured.
	If Mr. Hoag's treatise on silk raising
were read, very much information would
be obtained. Improvement will continue to

[Column 2]

be made in silk as well as in all other
branches of business, until it arrives at a
good standard of perfection.
	JAMES I. STEEL
Lakeview, Tooele Co.


