 HOUSE, Nov. 12, 1876.

	Present—Presidents D. H. Wells, John Tay-
lor, and Joseph F. Smith; Bishop C. Layton
and counsel, the officers of the Society, and a
whole house full of Saints. The choir sang,
"This house we dedicate to Thee."
 Dedication prayer by Elder John Taylor as
follows:
 "O God the Eternal Father in the name
of Jesus of Nazareth we present our-
selves before thee at this time; we have assem-
bled in this place for the purpose of dedicating
this hall which has been built for a Relief So-
ciety house wherein thy daughters and hand-
maids may meet to attend to the various du-
ties devolving apon them in a quorum capac-
ity; we ask O God that thy blessing may be
with us on this occasion, and that the words
we may say may be dictated by thy spirit.
We have gathered together in this place to
dedicate and set apart this house unto thee; and
we ask that thy blessing may rest upon us.
 We dedicate this house and all its surround-
ing unto thee. The ground on which it stands
we dedicate unto the Lord of Hosts, to be holy
unto thee, the stone, the mortar, and every-
thing that enters into its composition--the
brick, the lime the sand, and all the various
articles that enter into its composition, that it
may be sacred and holy, the boards and nails
of the floor, and the joists it rests upon, and
everything connected therewith, we conse-
crate and make holy unto the Lord our God.
We dedicate the roof, the shingles, the nails,
the rafters and sheeting, and everything con-
nected therewith unto the Lord; also the ceil-
ing, the plaster, the lath and lime, and every-
thing connected therewith we sanctify and
make pure unto the Lord God of Hosts. We
dedicate the doors, the windows, the frames
and fastenings thereof, the glass the putty, the
paint, and everything that enters into the com-
position of this house to be sanctified and holy
unto thee our God; and we ask that thy spirit
may dwell here, and that pure principles may
dwell here; and when thine handmaids shall
meet to perform any duty or office, may thy
spirit be with them, to direct, enlighten, and
assist them, and whatever office or calling they
shall undertake, we ask, O God, that their acts
and sayings may be such as God and angels
will approve. We dedicate this house for the
purpose for which it was designed. May thy
daughters and handmaids feel it a delightsome
place to assemble in. Bless also the young sisters
in their organizations; may thy peace be here,
and the spirit of God to attend them in their
administration. Bless the Bishops, the Elders,
the Priests, the Teachers, and the Deacon's,
and all thy servants in the Holy Priesthood,
and whosoever has built or contributed toward
the building of this house. Bless the sisters
in their labors in providing for the poor, coun-
seling or instructing or whatsoever they may
set their hands to do.
 We now dedicate this house and ourselves
unto thee, and all who shall take part in the
labors therein. Lead them we pray thee in
the paths of life, and ultimately save us in thy
CELESTIAL KINGDOM, we ask it in the name of
Jesus. Amen."
 Remarks by Elder John Taylor; I remember
the organization of the first Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Emma Smith was president and sis-
ter Whitney, (wife of Bishop Whitney,) and
sister Cleveland were her counselors. Eliza R.
Snow was secretary and Elvira Cole treas-
urer. A good spirit prevailed, and the pro-
phet Joseph spoke on the occasion. Some time
after Emma got sorely tried. It was the time
when men were commanded to take more wives
It made us all pull pretty long faces sometimes,
it was not so easy as one might think. When
it was revealed to us it looked like the last end
of Mormonism. For a man to ask another
woman to marry him required more self-confi-
dence than we had. I will not confess the sins
of others but I will tell you some of my own.
I was riding out one day by the old grave yard
where I met Joseph. Said he to me, 'Elder
Taylor stop, look at me,' speaking of the reve-
lation lately given on CELESTIAL MARRIAGE,
he said, 'These things must be entered into or
the keys will be turned, and the church of God
go on no further.'
 There was nothing previous to that revela-
tion by which men and women could be joined
together for eternity. We had a good religion
to live by, but it would not do to die by. We
were not prepared to inherit a celestial glory
without doing the works of Abraham, for the
man is not perfect without the woman, nor
the woman without the man. No mat-
ter what I wished, there was no other expedi-
ent that would answer but to obey the com-
mandment from God. I have talked about it
since that time to senators, congressmen, lords,
nobles and congregations in the prominent
cities of the earth, but have found no one who
could say anything REASONABLE nor SCRIPTU-
AL against it. The United States Govern-
ment has not succeeded in overthrowing
it. God has sustained us, and we have come
off victorious. Many intelligent men look
upon the marital relationship as a problem
which the Mormons will solve, hoping they
will solve it successfully, because the intelli-
gent men I speak of know the nation is going
to the bad. But to return to my subject about
Emma Smith. Emma Smith, at first profess-
ed having faith in the revelation on celestial
marriage, but afterwards forsook it, using her
influence to pervert the minds of the sisters,
and set them against it. She tried it with my
wife. The sisters in these days are like some
of the wives of the patriarchs of old. There
was some trouble in their families we are told
in the Bible. The good sisters in Nauvoo said
'they believed the revelation, but—But
what? But as the Savior said, 'if it is possible
let this cup pass, but Thy will be done, no
mine.'
 My wife told me many things Emma Smith
had told her.  When I met Joseph I said, Bro-
ther Joseph, do you know that sister Emma
has been talking thus and so to my wife, and
telling her such and such things, and said that
you have denied the revelation yourself? Said
Joseph, "Brother Taylor, sister Emma would do
throne Jehovah himself, if she could, for the
accomplishment of her purposes."
 Women in these associations should not use
their position and power to pervert good; if
they do so, evil is sure to follow and come on
their own heads. When the sisters come to a
place of this kind they ought to feel the spirit
of their mission, enter into the sympathies
of the people, consider the wan[-]s of the
poor and provide for them, and n[-]ver never,
entertain harsh feelings towards on another,
but forgive as they would be forgi[-]en.  Wo-
men any more than men, have no right to
speak evil; a great deal is committed to their
care, they are required to train their child-
ren in the [-]ays of God. And what honer is 
theirs if they only seek it. We should not
let our children see in us actions, or hear
from us words that we would be ashamed of
again. When your husbands are absent you


[Column 1]

sisters should ask God's blessing that He
should lead you in the paths of life, and fur-
ther, you should lay hands on your sick child-
ren and rebuke diseases in faith and power
and God will hear you. Let us fear God and
work righteousness, and I pray that the spirit
of peace, and the blessing of God may rest
and abide with you in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Prest. D. H. Wells:—The Relief Society of
this place has performed a very creditable
work. The sisters are coming up towards the
mark in their sphere of usefulness, more than
they have been. They are a power in Israel,
and a great one, too. It has bren said by the
world that the women in Utah were kept in
subjection and bondage by the male sex, and
that if they were enfranchised they would
liberate themselves &c. They were enfran-
chised, and I am glad that the sisters by their
works show that they appreciate their privi-
leges. They have done exactly what I expect-
ed they would do. Our enemies thought the
women would vote down PLURAL MARRIAGE.
	The sisters are quite a power in the wards in
assisting the bishops. Some of our city bish-
ops say they would not know what to do, now,
without the aid and assistance of the sisters in
looking after the poor, and other duties; to some
it looked curious to have to ask the advice and
aid of the sisters, not only in the duties I have
mentioned, but in taking measures for the
saving and storing of grain. Why should it
be? Should a famine come the women would
have to suffer hunger as well as the men. In
saving and storing up grain the men have been
tried for years, but they have continued to let
the grain go; now we want to see if the sisters
will be more successful in storing the grain.
It is a good time now to store up for a time of
need. The grasshoppers are here, and we can-
not tell what they may do. It is wisdom that
we should treasure up our grain. The sisters
have the power to help us in doing this.
These things are within the province and law-
ful sphere of the sisters' Relief Societies. The
women are just as much interested as the men
are and their salvation and welfare are just as
much concerned. I like to see the sisters bear
their proportion of the labors of the kingdom,
that they may share in its blessings. Women
are more susceptible of receiving the truth
than men. More women in proportion
obey the gospel than men. I merely state this
as a fact which has come under my observa-
tion, and I believe that they have a more re-
fining influence in a community; they might
extend this influence in many ways. For in-
stance, the girls could resolve never to marry
a man who is addicted to vicious or degrading
habits. This would have a good tendency, I
think, to prevent drunkeness and rowdyism,
the use of tobacco. etc., although it is the duty
of our young men to abstain from these habits
without such an incentive.
	Marriage is very important. Our women's
Societies should seek to reform our young men.
It might hurt the feelings of a young sister to
risk losing the man she likes, but you may de-
pend upon it, that a man will be more apt to
reform before marriage than after. I cannot
blame a woman for leaving a man who will
continue to be a drunkard. Drunkenness
brings ruin and degradation to the family.
The drunkard destroys his family, sacrifices
house, home and interests, until, finally, he
kills himself, and leaves his family in poverty.
It is a true saying that there are many men
in the world who deserve no wife at all, and
the time will come when they will not have
wives.
	This house is a credit to the sisters of Kays-

[Column 2]

ville. I hope they will work harmoniously
together for the best purposes. Can we
really find a people on the earth who will
uphold the principles of the gospel, and bring
up their children in the nurture and admoni-
tion of the Lord, and sustain his kingdom that
it may stand and abide forever? Yes the time
has come when it will be done. With this
people and those who will spring from them,
and through their instrumentality, the Lord
will establish his kingdom and sustain it on
the earth. The children of this people who
have been trained in the light of the gospel
will bear off the kingdom, though many of
them may go to destruction, the remainder
will stand faithful to the end. In so doing
they will have to withstand temptation.
	We need to become self-sustaining, who is
better qualified than the sisters to bring this
about? The kingdom of God, like any other
kingdom, requires space, territory, and people
to be subjects of it. Building, manufacturing,
agriculture, etc., are just as much needed in it,
as in any other kingdom, and any man or wo-
man who is engaged in any of these callings
with pure motives, is just as much on a mis-
sion as if preaching the gospel. Every man,
woman and child has a mission. What was
God's purpose in bringing us here at this par-
ticular time? One purpose was for us to obtain
tabernacles for our spirits to dwell in; another
is for us to pass through the ordeal and prove
our integrity; another is to establish a holy
and righteous seed in the earth, and to sustain
those principles of salvation that God has re-
vealed and will reveal. The accomplishment
of these purposes requires determination, skill,
application and perseverance. In carrying out
some of these purposes women are indispensa-
ble; in others they can render great assistance.
It is their glorious mission. Let us go forth
then, and let this be our motto "God and His
Kingdom before all other things." The mere
fact that we are engaged in this work is a tes-
timony that we are different to all other peo-
ple.
	We are rapidly increasing in numbers and
strength in these valleys, spreading abroad
and becoming a mighty nation in the midst of
the desert, which has been made to blossom as
the rose, as the prophets foretold. Whenever
we want to find a country for saints to dwell
in we have to seek out such places as Utah
and Arizona.
	Are we growing in the principles of the gos-
pel in proportion to our increase in numbers
and substance? Are we preparing to be self-
sustaining while Babylon falls, or are we drift-
ing after Babylon? These matters belong to
the duties of Relief Societies; so does the pre-
serving and storing of the fruits and grains of
the earth for our sustenance. The men have
been and are selling all the grain to pay mer-
chants, bills, etc., should a famine come it will
be a terrible thing. We could hardly bear to
see our friends and neighbors suffer for the
want of food, and should they have to depend
on us, they will be a heavy tax on us. The in-
stinct of many animals and insects impels
them to hoard up food for winter; why should
not the human race do the same?
	God bless us all, and particularly you, my
sisters, and help you to continue in the good
work you have begun, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.


