	MILL CREEK, S. L. Co., Feb. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our honored President Mrs.
I. J. Walters, I will undertake to write
you a brief report of the proceedings of our
Retrenchment Association. On account of
the resignation of our former president,
we were reorganized Feb. 16, 1876: the As-
sociation now stands as follows: Mrs. I. J.
Walters, president, Misses E. Carlisle, Jan-
net Park, Sarah A. Walter s Adelade How-
ard, Amelia B. Morgan and Mrs. Clara J.
Hawley, Counselors; Misses Melinda H.
North and Mary E. Spencer, Secretaries;
Mrs. Margaret M. Spencer, Superintendent.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks
and those of the girls who attend seem to
take quite an interest in the meetings and
are united.
	In our Superintendent we have a good
and able counselor, in whom we have entire
confidence; she teaches us many good and
useful things concerning our religion,
and also how to walk in our every day lives.
Our President takes great interest in the
Association and is fully alive to her duties.
We take the EXPONENT in our Association
and read selections from it and the Church
Works in our meetings. On the 16th of
Dec. last, we had a social party, which was
conducted in Leap Year style, being man-
aged especially by the young ladies of the
Association; beginning at 3 p. m. and
closing at 11 o'clock in the evening. There
was a full attendance and all seem satisfied
at the close, having had an enjoyable time.
The proceeds of the party are to be used by
the Association to buy grain.
	On the 24th of Jan. We were favored
with a visit from Mrs. Zina D. Young, and
Mrs. E. S. Barney. They gave us excellent
instructions on various subjects. Caution-
ed the girls never to say anything against
Plural Marriage, and exhorted them to be
self-sustaining as far as possible. They also
gave us some instructions pertaining to silk
culture; thought we might just as well dress
in silk as cotton. They exhibited some
specimens of beautiful silk fringe which
had been made to use in ornamenting the
St. George Temple, also a silk handker-
chief of home manufacture, all from the ele-
ments of Utah. Referred to the Woman's
Book. Gave us some instructions upon
prayer, showing the manner in which it
should be conducted etc.; spoke against
round dancing, thought the young people
had better listen to the counsel of a man of
seventy-five years experience and profit
there-by. Upon the whole we had an
excellent meeting a good spirit having per-
vaded throughout. All went away feeling
that they had beeu more than repaid for
coming.
	Hoping that ere long we will have anoth-
er visit from the fountains head, and wish-
ing success to all institution of improve-
ment, we remain your sisters,
	ISABELLA WALTERS, Prest.
	M. H. NORTH,
	M. E. SPENCER,	Secy's.

