THE MOTHER OF WASHINGTON.*

Long hast thou slept unnoted. Nature stole
In her soft minstrelsy around thy bed,
Spreading her vernal tissues, violet gem'd,
And pearled with dews.

			She bade bright Summer bring,
Gifts of frankincense, with sweet songs of birds,
And Autumn cast his reaper's coronet
Down at thy feet, and stormy Winter speaks
Sternly of man's neglect. But now we come
To do thee homage, Mother of our chief!

Methinks we see thee as in olden time,
Simple in garb—majestic and serene;
Unmoved by pomp or circumstance—in truth.
Inflexible, and with a Spartan zeal
Repressing vice and making folly grave.
Thou deemst it not woman's part to waste
Life in inglorious sloth—to sport a while
Amid the flowers, or on the summer wave,
Then fleet, like the ephemera, away,
Building no temple in her children's hearts
Save to the vanity and pride of life
Which she had wors[---]p'd.
			For the might that cloth'd
The "Pater Patrix"—for the glorious deeds
That make Mount Vernon's tomb a Mecca shrine,
For all the earth—what thanks to thee are due,
Who 'mid his elements of being, wrought,
We know not—Heaven can tell!

			Rise, sculptured pile!
And show a race unborn who rest below,
And say to mothers, What a holy charge
Is thine—with what a kingly power this love
Might rule the fountains of the newborn mind.
Warn them to wake at early dawn, and sow
Good seed before the world hath sown her tares;
Nor in their toil decline—that angel hands
May put the sickle in, and reap for God,
And gather to his garner.
			Ye who stand
With thrilling breast to view her trophied praise,
Who nobly reared Virginia's godlike chief—
Ye, whose last thought upon your nightly couch,
Whose first at waking, is your cradled son,
What though no high ambition prompts to rear
A second Washington, or have your name
Wrought out in marble with a nation's tear
Of deathless gratitnde—yet may you raise
A monument above the stars—a soul
Led by your teachings and your prayers to God.
								L.H. SIGOURNEY.
On laying the corner-stone of her monument at Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia.


