WHAT TO DO WITH OLD MAIDS.

	What 900,000 English, and 30,000 Yan-
kee old maids—"What shall become of us
poor old maids?" It does seem to me that
this subject is more asked about than acted
upon. Woman's Suffrage, Woman's Rights,
Woman's influence, Woman in office, etc.
	Now it has always been a matter of won-
der with me that man, woman, or sensible
child, should be troubled to find occupation,
in this busy, bustling world. I have always
recommended to persons out of employ-
ment to take right hold of the first thing
they saw in their way that was left undone
by some one else. But few persons like to
do this. Their habits always having been
to reach after that business which pays best,
and is easiest on the muscles. We have a
fine variety of examples of this in S. L.
City. I have, when visiting there, been
much amused at the little "world displayed"
on Main Street. Being a country woman,
I read the signs, cards and shingles, and al-
so listen with wonder to the multitude of
voices; men from every nation under hea-
ven trailing out here after the Mormons—
and I have said to myself "what went ye
out into the wilderness to see?" Eager,
anxious restless ones why are you here?
I look not at surplus women, nor surplus
children, but surplus humanity. When I
see vast unappropriated resources, and a
vast number of people not well employed;
or perhaps not employed at all, I marvel as
an American should marvel, at the leg-
islation which does not lay hold upon such
as have no means of support and regulate
their conditions and relieve the country
of vagrants and beggars, and bring in a
revenue to the government.
	Coming back to the matter, the unmar-
ried, and perhaps very sensible ladies refer-
red to. The English people we have noth-
ing to do with, and therefore need not af-
flict ourselves on their account. The sub-
ject I would discuss is our own nation of
people. As to matrimony nothing on earth
is worse than a bad marriage. Let that go
by for the time; 30,000 unmarried women
in a country where there is the most intel-
ligent class of inhabitants, is no misfortune,
In my judgment there is a finer opening
for enterprises for women now, than ever
before.
	Were I of the class referred to by Bessie
Bramble, I would surely make an effort to
induce Government to take the same inter-
est in her White children as her Black or
Red ones. I would lend my utmost ability
to the work, feeling that it was a mission
from divine authority and must succeed.
	Look through our Eastern cities and see
if Victor Hugo could not find children of
the street there as well as in Paris. Why
might not these honorable unmarried women
of the world combine together, petition
government to set them off a tract of land
and lend them at first other necessary aid
and protection. Go into the large manu-
facturing districts in the heart of this na-
tion and gather out mechanical talent, the
starving, helpless ones, possessed of bone
and sinew and muscle, who are now out of
employment, and found a colony on some of
the vast expanses of unoccupied land where
soil is fertile, the climate medium, water
plenty, and timber, perhaps coal, near at
hand. Women of intelligence and ability,
such as the unmarried women of America

[Column 2]

attain in the present day, could, with tact,
energy and their indomitable perseverance,
so manage as to divide to every class of tal-
ent its peculiar business or work, and every-
thing be done upon a systematic principle.
When Romulus founded Rome he so divid-
ed the community, the Army, Agriculture
and Arts, that they were justly proportioned
and all were defended, all were sustained,
and all were employed.
	When Solomon built the Temple and en-
riched Jerusalem, he simply so divided the
people that there was no idle surplus, and
there ought not to be in our country a sur-
plus of even one child ten years old that is
in good health.

	Why should there be a question of What
shall 30,000 unmarried ladies do, if they
have got pluck and shrewdness enough and
will work together and pioneer, by the as-
sistance government may lend them, a vast
unsettled country. Of course it will take a
strong determination and undaunted cour-
age, but they will be so engrossed in their
work, and anxious to accomplish the pur-
pose designed, that there will be no time to
bemoan their unhappy fate.
	Having obtained the consent and protec-
tion of government, gather up the desti-
tute children and take them where they
may labor and live, where they may be
taught honesty and virtue, for is it not a
disgrace and a blemish upon the escutch-
eon of this nation that there are thousands
of helpless children in this boasted land of
liberty and freedom, with its unoccupied
millions of acres of fertile lands, crying to
starving mothers for bread?
	Gather up these little innocent ones as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, and call them from degradation and
hunger to honest labor, education and hap-
piness, and of you then, will it not be said,
"Thy children shall make haste." Lift up
thine eyes and behold all these gather to-
gether and come unto thee; "Sing, O bar-
ren, thou that didst not bear, for more are
the children of the desolate than the chil-
dren of the married wife. Enlarge the
place of thy tent and stretch forth the cur-
tains of thine habitations, and make the
desolate places to be inhabited," by the vo-
taries of virtue, honor, peace and plenty,
who would otherwise, perhaps, continue in
vice, beggary or crime.
	There is a place, ladies, for your neglect-
ed talents; see if there is among you Wo-
man's Rights Advocates' statesmanship to
found a colony and return money to the
treasury by the results of your Political and
Economical ability.
	My hands are full of work (as for me I am
not surplus), and so are those of every Lat-
ter-day Saint that is living her religion, but
for the world at large no better plan than
this could be entered upon, granting that
Government would lend such patronage as
it is willing to give to fallen races.
	Share no sympathy with such benevolent
societies as give money to the poor; it en-
courages idleness and beggary, and is sim-
ply ruinous to a child's sense of morality
and honor. It implants in the minds of
children that the poor are to live by gift
and patronage from the rich. Give money
only to the sick and aged, to others the
privilege of honest labor and honest pay.
Cast out from any community waste and
extravagance, and keep God's command-
ments, observing "Six days shalt thou la-
bor," and so forth.
	These are, Mrs. Editor, the honest
thoughts and convictions of a
		COUNTRYWOMAN.
	York Station, Jan. 14, 1877.


