EXCELLENCE.
	It is scarce expected in this probationary
sphere that any person will be perfect. Faults
and foibles seem to be the accompaniments to
whatever merit human nature is capable of at-
taining. In many different positions and pla-
ces weaknesses are more plainly apparent be-
cause the person occupies prominence, and the
whole community look on and judge, watch
and criticize. Not only is this true as regards
those who hold offices and positions of power
and trust, it is also true of editors and writers.
	It would be advisable for some of those per-
sons who are so ready to judge and condemn,
if they would for a moment, "Put themselves
in his (or her) place." It is just possible that
they might not think it such an easy task to
please everybody. Although we desire to keep
in the direct channel of purity and truth, and
pray that we may be guided right, we must
leave the success of our efforts as "Bread cast up-
on the waters;" and if we are blamed and scof-
fed and sneered at what of it? It is but a
breath, and when we are sure our motives and
efforts are to sustain those divine principles
which will lead all who obey them back into
the presence of God the Father, what need we
care if we are not understood by those who do
not see as we do? Pope said,
"Let such teach others who themselves excel,
And censure freely who have written well."
	Our paper aims to represent the true senti-
ments of the women of the church of Latter-
day Saints, in strict accordance with the spirit
and interests of the Gospel. We have no de-
sire or ambition to achieve the transient honor
or praise of the world outside of that. "Vault-
ed ambition overleaps itself." And all who
are seeking the applause of the world should
consider how changing is the tide of human
affairs.
	Humility is the safest condition for one's
self; devoid of that, even genius and talent lose
half their excellence.
	We desire not only to be just but charitable,
acting after the pattern of the Golden Rule "To
do unto others as we would wish them to do
unto us;" but we will if possible at all times
maintain the right. Our paper is not the re-
pository or receptacle of all the ramblings of
persons who have no knowledge of principle.
 We do not publish everybody's ideas and
opinions, it would be utterly inconsistent, if
we did. It is our object to disseminate such
principles as are elevating and purifying in
their nature and practise. The interest of home
institutions, organizations and improvements,
particularly among women, are what we con-
sider it our duty to represent truthfully, re-
gardless of the aspersions and criticisms of
those who would impugn our sincerity and
earnestness.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


