	PLEASANT GROVE, Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting Feb. 1st,
there were a goodly number of ladies in
attendance, also Bros. Thomas Wooley,
Lewis Harvey, and James Ballenger, who
came by invitation of our President Mrs.
E. Brown.
	Opened by prayer singing and the usual

[Column 2]

reading of minutes and the annual report.
After a few remarks by Mrs. E. Brown, the
meeting was ably addressed by the brethren
named above; they spoke highly of the ef-
fort the sisters are making in saving grain.
Thought perhaps that President Young in-
tended to shame the brethren for their
slackness in obeying couusel, for many
years he has been trying to have the people
lay up the grain. Was pleased to see
the Society progressing their little mites
were accumulating to a great amount with
which they might be able to do a great deal
of good; spoke of our living in unity and
oneness and trying to keep all the command-
ments of God; gave many good counsels
that will long be remembered by all who
had the pleasure of hearing them.
	Report of the year ending Jan. 17 1877.
	Received, in sundries, donation, and div-
	edends from store..................	$	115 57 1/2
	Cash.......................................		  11 20
	Disbursed for fencing and
	plowing lots...........................		234 95
	To the poor.............................		  55 75
	For the Temple.......................		  50 00
	Organ for Meeting House......		  13 50
		Capital Stock:
	Shares in Co-op Store............		515 38
	Provo Factory.........................	118 00
	Three City lots........................	400 00
	Property in the treasury...........	  55 75
		Total				$    1080 13
	President Mrs. E. Brown then addressed
the meeting; said that through unavoidable
circumstances we did not commence saving
grain as soon as we wished to; but we have
selected our purchasing committee and
have on hand about sixty bushels of wheat
and are making arrangements to secure
more, if our Heavenly Father blesses us
with a bountiful harvest the coming season,
we will then try to buy up grain enough
that our little ones may not cry for bread;
and some of the beautiful mornings of next
summer the sisters that have agreed to
make a raid on the harvest fields and gath-
er the golden heads of grain that the harvest-
ers have dropped, will be showing by
their presence there they are earnestly en-
gaged in this great work.
	We have three city lots fenced and ready
for growing mulberry trees; some sprouts
that were planted last spring are doing well,
and we expect to plant more this coming
spring.
	May the spirit of God inspire every Lat-
ter-day Saint to do His will that they may
receive His blessings.
	MRS. F. E. STUART,
		Ass’t. Scc’y.

	Minutes of a meeting held in Logan Dec.
5, 1876, for the reorganization of the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association. Meet-
ing having been called to order Mra. Eliza-
beth Benson, president of the Relief So-
ciety of Logan was appointed by unanimous
vote to act as president of the meeting,
Miss Kennie Bailiff, secretary "protem."
	After the usual exercises of singing—and
prayer (by Bishop Preston) the president of
the meeting arose and said she was very
thankful that the sisters had come from S.
L. City, to visit and to reorganize the young
ladies, that she hoped all would be united
in the object before the meeting.
	Mrs. E. Howard then addressed them up-
on the subject and said that the time had
now arrived for the daughters of Zion to
turn their attention to many things pertain-
ing to the interests of the kingdom of God.

[Column 3]

	She counseled the girls especially to keep
the "Word of Wisdom" and to read good
books; gave much excellent instruction.
Miss E. R. Snow said that before proceed-
ing with the reorganization she wanted to
know whether the young ladies wished to
be organized and if so to make it manifest;
the vote being unanimous, it was then
moved, seconded and carried that Miss El-
len Ricks be appointed president, and
Misses Sarah J. Card and Caroline Olsen,
Counselors; Miss Lydia Crochett, Secretary,
Miss E. R. Snow then explained that as
the president chosen was absent, and it was
her privilege to choose her counselors her-
self, it would be wise to leave the choosing
of the other Counselors until the president
herself was present. She also advised them
to choose a Treasurer. Miss Snow then
continued her remarks by explaining the
many ways in which the young sisters
could make themselves useful and help in
building up the kingdom of God. She en-
joined upon them punctuality in attending
their meetings, and to be united together
in whatever they undertook. Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, president of the Weber Co. So-
cieties spoke very encouragingly to the
young girls, advised them to be ever kind
and obedient to their mothers and do all
they could to help and comfort them. Mrs.
Zina D. Young then spoke a few words, she
did not wish to detain them, thought the
time had been well spent, but would like
to advise the girls to set out mulberry cut-
tings and raise silk-worms, thus making a
small beginning towards the manufacture
of silk.
	The meeting closed by benediction from
Bishop Preston.
	Since the meeting mentioned above the
remaining officers have been chosen: Mrs.
Emeline Jones, and Misses Esther Leish-
man, Ruth Clarkson, Martha Bittens, Coun-
selors; Miss Julia Baliff. Ass't Sec'y., and
Miss Isabella Davidson, Treasurer.


