				THE 19 WARD.

	I heard my name put down for an essay
last Wednesday, but I think the few re-
marks I am about to read will scarcely bear
that title. I have been engaged every mo-
ment since we last met and have not much
time for writing, but I have thought much
of you all, and the motive of this little as-
sembly. I have throwm a few of my ideas
rapidly together to read to you this after-
noon, agreably to your request. Last meet-
ing a few words were dropped upon dignity
of character, and I wish to define a little
clearer what I comprehend is contained in
these three words. Some imagine pride
and exclusiveness is meant by them, but I
do not so understand them. Dignity of
character is simply self-respect, in which I
see many young girls are deficient; this
arises from thoughtlessness or a poor edu-
cation, that is in early training. One who
possesses this requsite, will be modest and
quiet in her deportment, will never be
guilty of rudeness to any one, even her
young associates; will be ever respectful to
her parents and teachers or persons older
than themselves, and consequently more
experienced. They will enter all places
quietly and with respect, especially any
place set apart for the worship of God.
They will behave in like manner during
the service, leaving the house in the same


quiet manner, and I want you to remember
that very few boys would be rude if girls
conducted themselves with grace and dig-
nity; women and girls make and control
manners in a great measure, and they also
have a mighty and powerful influence in
forming morals; you can scarcely realize in
how great a degree; but try it my young
sisters with your boy-friends, and see if
they will not respond to your good man-
ner, and respect and esteem you for them.
Try it and years hence you will remember
my words, and say I spoke truth. A lady
is not made by fine clothes, or a fine house,
by no means. She may be clothed in home-
ly apparel, and have a very humble dwell-
ing, but if she respects herself and her as-
sociates, in which consists "dignity of
character" she shows that she is a true lady;
and no one has a right to that title but
those who earn it. You need not be pre-
cise, formal or repellant. No, show that
you are a happy and contented girl by your
pleasant, free, agreable manners, and you
will then be known as a young lady possess-
ing "dignity of character."
					HANNAH T. KING.
Jan. 23, 1877.


