THE MORAL EFFECT OF HURRY.

	To the thoughtful, the moral conse-
quences of tension and hurry are very sad-
dening; to the physician their results are a
matter of profound concern; their grave
evils come under his daily observation.
No evolution of force can take place with
undue rapidity without damage to the ma-
chine in which the transformation is effect-
ed. Express railway stock has a much
shorter term of use that reserved for
slower traffic. The law is inversely propor-
tioned. It is therefore no matter of sur-
prise that the human nervous system is no
exception to the law. The higher salubrity
of rural over urban life is not a matter of
fresh air and exercise. Rural life involves
leisure and pause in work, which are very
essential to the maintenance of the ner-
vous system in a state of due nutrition.
Unremitting spasms soon cease altogether.
	The tension of life produces weakness at
the very place where life is most needed.
The damage done to the health of the most
valuable part of the community, the best
trained thinkers, the most useful workers,
is incalculable. Work and worry, though
not proportional, are closely connected, and
an excess of the former soon entails an in-
crease in the latter beyond the limits which
the nervous system can bear with impuni-
ty, especially the condition under which
the work has to be done. The machinery
for organizing the work of a community
has to be rigid and inflexible, and in the
strain involved in bringing a changing or-
ganism into harmony with a machine, the
former must inevitably suffer.—London
Lancet.


When Garrick was beginning his career,
his great rival was Quin. Garrick was
bright and natural, Quin was formal and
pompous. It was evident that the death
struggle between the old and the new
school was about to begin. At last it was
decided that they should appeal definitely
to the public. "The Fair Penitent" was
chosen. Garrick performed Lothario and
Quin Horatio. The first act took up a full
hour, for the house was full of the advo-
cates of both schools, and both were loud
in their plaudits. At last a trivial and lu-
dicrous, but, as all must have felt, a signifi-
cant circumstance gave Garrick the victory.
In the last scene of the second act Lothario
challenges Horatio "Two hours ere noon to-
morrow I expect thee." Quin with his
usual pompous stateliness, paused so long
before he gave an answer, that some sim-
ple fellow in the gallery, really excited by
the position, cried out, "Confound you, you
coward, why don't you tell the gentleman
whether you'll meet him or no?"


There are many of the greatest deeds
done in the small struggles of life.


