WHY PLURAL MARRAIGE IS FOR-
			BIDDEEN IN THE BOOK OF 
					MORMON. 
					--------------
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I desire to submit a few thoughts suggested up-
on reading the article entitled "Some facts plainly-
set forth," published in numer 4, vol 14, of your
valuable paper.
	To obtain exact chronological dates of events 
that transpired as recorded in the Book of Mor-
mon is, perhaps, impossible, but a very close ap-
proximate can be arrived at.


[Column 1]

	﻿It was while dwelling in the valley of Lemuel
that the sons of Nephi, and also Zoram, the
former servant of Laban, took each one a wife of
the daughters of Ishmael, whose family had ac-
companied Lehi and his family into the wilderness,
there were exactly five men and five women who
were married at this time. (See I. Nephi,
chap. 16, verse 7.) The two sons of Ishmael
brought their families with them, but it is to be
supposed that they were of youthful age as neither
of their sisters were married until this time. These,
with Jacob and Joseph, who were afterwards born
to Lehi, with Sariah, their mother, and the sisters,
of whom mention is made in II. Nephi, chap. 5,
verse 6, together with Ishmael's wife—for he had
died in the wilderness—constituted the entire colo-
ny that took passage on board the vessel that con-
veyed them to the land of America. But a divis-
ion in the colony took place some time afterwards,
for we read that Nephi and his family, Sam and
his family, Zoram and his family, Jacob and Joseph,
his younger brethren, and Nephi's sisters (how
many is not mentioned) seperated from the rest
and became the people of Nephi, and afterwards
bore that name.
	Now, these people did not marry at the early
age we do today, but should they have done so, at the
time that Jacob was speaking concerning the sin
of whoredom among his people, there could not
possibly have been more than three generations of
married people, for it was immediately after the
death of Nephi that Jacob commences his record,
and starts out by saying that fifty-five years had
passed away since Lehi left Jerusalem, and in the
second book records: "The words which Jacob,
the brother of Nephi, spake unto the people of
Nephi, after the death of Nephi," a portion of
which was a denunciation of the sin of whoredom
indulged in by the people, as well as a reference
to a former command, that no man among them
should "take more than one wife."
	My object, in reviewing the early history of this
people, is to show that there could not have been
a great disparity in the sexes at this time, hence
the consistency of the command as given by God
to Lehi, (see Book of Jacob, chap. 3, verse 34,)
is very apparent. But for the crime of which
they were guilty. Jacob says they excused them-
selves "because of the things which were written
concerning David and Solomon, his son." What
was the sin of David? The Jewish record says:
"In no one thing did he sin against me, save in
the matter of Uriah, the Hittite." And the Proph-
et Nathan, when rebuking him, told him how the
Lord had given him many wivess, even the wives
of his master Saul, and further says, "If that had
been too little I would moreover have given
unto thee such and such things." This, then, was
the only sin of David, and is it not presumable,
that because God did not immediately destroy
David, but put away his sin for the time being,
that the people of Nephi took advantage of this
leniency to justify themselves in their wicked acts?
What was Solomon's sin? In marrying strange
women—taking them outside of the authority of
God, and these women led away his heart, inso-
much that to please them he burnt incense and
sacrificed to their Gods, which was an abomina-
tion to the Lord. Previous to this the Lord had
told Solomon that he would bless him above all
men if he would walk in the ways and keep the
statutes and commandments as his father, David,
had done. It is recorded of him, in connection
with his taking these strange women, "And Solo-
mon did evil in the sight of the Lord, and went
not fully after the Lord, as did David, his
father."
	Then, the sin of the Nephites, against which
Jacob spoke so forcibly, must have been either in
appropriating the wives of others, or in taking
wives outside of the marriage covenant, for it
would be impossible for a man to commit whore-
dom with wives God had given him, neither could

[Column 2]

the chastity of woman, about which Jacob spoke
as having been violated,be imperiled only outside
of that covenant.
	The law given to the Nephites confined a man
strictly to one wife, consequently no man of God,
no matter what authority he possessed, could have
given more than one wife to one man. Then, to
take more was a crime before God, and this was
the crime of which these men had been guilty, and
which Jacob denounced in such strong language.
It was this unrighteous conduct which broke the
hearts of these men's wives, and caused sorrow
and mourning to the fair daughters of the people.
How unlike the law that was given to Moses—to
protect plural wives in their rights of marriage;
also how unlike the action of Laban, which was
sanctioned by God, in giving his two daughters to
Jacob, and whose issue were mighty men, wield-
ing both kingly and priestly power.
	The Lord understood the purposes of His own
mind, when He gave the law limiting the men of
the Nephites to one wife, and He also understands
His purposes in commanding His people to-day to
take more than one wife, and as it was a sin
against God then to take more than one wife, we
would be equally culpable in rejecting the law
commanding plural marriage to-day. A late revela-
tion says, "By law are ye justified," and the re-
velation upon plural marriage says that the an-
cients were justified in taking more wives because
this was the law; and further, "And in nothing
did they sin, save in those things which they re-
ceived not of me." If I were writing for the bene-
fit of unbelievers, I would offer some other ex-
planations of this (seemingly ambiguous) passage
in the Book of Jacob, but suffice it to say that it
is made quite plain in the revelation on celestial
marriage, and it was a commandment given
specially to the people of Nephi for the accom-
plishment of God's own purposes, and related to
them exclusively, as did the building of an ark in
Noah's time, or the crossing of the Red Sea by
Israel especially related to them, and was for their
salvation in each instance. Unbelievers, fault-
finders and opponents of the truth, will take ad-
vantage of every technicality and will trip them-
selves upon the stumbling blocks that have ap-
parently been left by the Almighty for this very
purpose. But a true Latter-day Saint will not
cavil upon these points, for they know that there is
a most beautiful harmony and consistency in every
command given by God, and that they are exactly
adapted to the circumstances and condition of the
people, and the evil one knows this full well, too,
hence his increasing attempts to thwart the pur-
poses of the Almighty, and especially is this mani
fest in regard to plural or celestial marriage to-day
	Our enemies, who know nothing of the spirit
or genius of our religion will pick out and quote
such savings as that contained in the Book of
Jacob, that have no more reference to this dispen-
sation, or the law of the Lord as pertaining there-
to, than the law of Moses as given to ancient
Israel, would be aplicable to our condition to-day.
For the Lord (as intimated by Jacob He would)
has commanded His people in this last dispensa-
tion to take more than one wife to raise up seed
unto himself, and all the sophistical reasoning upon
the subject, nor a denial by any number of per-
sons, cannot alter the fact, for God's word "will
not return unto Him void, but will accomplish that
whereunto it has been given."

