R.S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	BEAR	LAKE	STAKE.
	Minutes of the Fourteenth Semi-annual
Conference of the Relief Society, held in St
Charles, July 11th, 1885, Prest. J.P. Lindsay
presiding. After the exercises of singing and
prayer, minutes of the previous conference
were read and accepted. 
	Prest. J. P. Lindsay made a few opening
remarks, in which she said, she regretted that
she had not visited the different societies this
summer; it was the first time she had failed
since they were organized.
	The different branches of Relief Society
were reported as follows: St. Charles, Prest.
Lizzie W. Rich; Fish Haven; Francis Howell;
Garden City, Ann Gook. Lake Town, Mrs. C.
Walstrom; Bloomington, Prest. Greenhalgh;
Paris 1st Ward, Coun. Margaret Sutton; 2nd
Ward, Ruth Sparks; Liberty, Jane Tanner;
Cottonwood, Sister Oakey. Randolph; Wood-
ruff, Bennington, Montpelier, Preston, George-
town and Soda Springs, not reported. The
statistical and financial report was then read
by the secretary.
	Sister Sarah I. Holmes made very interest
ing remarks, and said there was a difference
between exaltation and salvation. If we are
exalted we must obey a celestial law. Did not
feel satisfied with a salvation only; was desir-
ous to perform all the duties and responsibili-
ties devolving upon her, and to gain an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God.
	Sister Nancy E. Pugmire spoke of the great
responsibilities resting upon the mothers and
daughters in regard to examples,being set be-
fore the little ones around them.
	Sister Toomer spoke of some of the trials
she had passed through; thought we should
live so as to enjoy a portion of the spirit of
God, to enable us to give good counsel to our
sons and daughters.
	Prest. Lindsay made closing remarks—was
grateful for the good instruction which had
been given. Stated the cause of her Counselor,
Sister Collings, not being present, as she was
working in the Temple, and stated that the
Primary would meet in the afternoon. Singing.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. Benediction
by Elder Sutton.
	2 p.m.—adjourned session. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop J. A. Hunt. Sacrament adminis-
tered, during which, the hymn, "O God, the
Eternal Father," was sung; after which Coun.
L. M. Hart made a brief address, in which she
said, “We are ignored by the world and our,
rights are encroached upon more and more
every day, but if we are faithful all will be
well with us. There are some who think they
could do better if they had not been wronged,
or if some one else were in office; but we should
not let such considerations stand in the way of
our keeping the commands of God. Many of
you who are before me to-day have been
gathered from the four quarters of the earth,
and all for a similar purpose. The finger of
scorn is pointed at us, and many are cast into
prison for their religion."
	Sister Amy Cook compared our condition
now with that in the early rise of the Church,
and said, “Although their trials were great
they did not feel to falter or turn back again
to their homes in the old world. We are to
be tried as gold seven times in a furnace.”
Bore a faithful testimony.
	Prest. Lindsay said she often thought if
this had not been the Church and kingdom of
God she never could have had the strength to
hold her position in the Church, or stand before
so many people. If we put our time to good
use we can do more than we think we can. We
have got to overcome our selfishness. We
cannot live in the law of celestial marriage,
and live in peace; unless we have the Spirit of
God.” She felt it to be a sacred principle.
	'The time has come that we must go forward
or backward; we cannot stand still. I do not
know what we would be good for if we were
never tried. We should try to be-self-sustain-
ing, for the time will come when we will have
to be. We should keep our means among our
people; we should not sustain those who are tak-
ing from us all our rights and liberties; we must
live by faith, and let our works correspond.
We were told that when the Temple was com-
pleted our mission would be to attend to the
poor and the sick; but besides this, we should
try and assist in building the Stake Taber-
nacle.” Wished to remind the sisters about
saving grain; did not wish to slacken in this
labor. Believed the predictions that had been
given about the famine, “and in as much as
the prospects are good for an aoundant har-
vest, let us do all we can toward saving grain.
God will let our enemies go as far as He sees
fit in His wisdom. We must examine our-
selves and see if we are Saints in very deed; it
is through sacrifice and affliction that we are
brought to be worthy of the blessings of hea-
ven.
	The stake stationery account was read by
the secretary, when it was moved and second-
ed that each settlement donate the amount al-
lotted to them each year, and send it to the
Corresponding Secretary, Julia Budge.
	Bishop J. A. Hunt presented the presiding
officers of the stake and the different branches
of the Relief Society, which were sustained by
those present. The Bishop stated that be had
highly edified in listening to the instruc-
tions that had been given. We should be dili-
gent in our prayers, in our donations, in look-
ing after the poor, the sick and endeavoring to
comfort those in trouble. Felt that we had had
a good time in our conference. 
	Bishop Wm. West felt to endorse what had
been said; had long been convinced that the
young ladies could have a great influence with
the young gentlemen. "There is nothing to
look forward to with more pleasure than the
improvement of our sons and daughters.”
Bore a testimony to the good time we had had
in conference.
	Conference adjourned until the second
Saturday and Sunday in January. Choir sang
an anthem—“The Lord Reigneth.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Wm. M. Allred.
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec.,
		JULIA BUDGE, Ass't Sec.


