WHAT OF SCIENCE?
	Would you suppose for a moment that per-
sons well educated, those who had arrived at
great attainments in science, could doubt the
existence of a God, an  alwise Ruler or Crea-
tor of this vast universe, with all its varieties,
which charm the eye and gladden the soul?
	I do not believe that any sane person would
become an infidel because of his education, un-
less he obtained it just to make a show and ac-
complish some special object. Such a charac-
ter would serve the God of this world and look
no higher, accordingly could not enjoy the in-
spiration which a higher aim would bring to
him.	
	But one who studies to benefit himself will
benefit others, and also appreciate every facul-
ty of mind and body which has been given
him, as also the fountain of light and intelli-
gence, from which knowledge is obtained and
through which those faculties are developed.
Could such a one doubt the existence of a
Creator? No!no! He would increase in love
and admiration as he advanced in science.
Knowing everything is governed by laws,
there must have been a great first cause or de-
signer, whose purposes are beyond our compre-
hension, yet not beyond the reach of obtaining
that intelligence if we live aright and persevere,
honestly to ourselves and our aspirations, ever
upward and onward. Then we gain little by
little, for such are our capacities.
	Only a short time ago a young lady
read to me a lecture by a reverend
gentleman, delivered in Brooklyn. He quoted
Scripture fluently, and correctly,too; but what
did he do with it? I listened with disgust
while he took passages given in the Old Testa-
ment by the prophets to govern society at that
time, and again in the days of Jesus and His
disciples, which every lover of true principle
venerates, and made them clash in the most
ridiculous manner. "Why," said the lady,
“does not he quote it correctly?'  “Well,” I
replied,‘I will answer you by asking a ques-
tion. The furniture in this room is all useful,
and ornamental, too. If I should take this
lamp and dash it at the mirror, and a chair at
the sewing machine and take the dishes and
dash them at everything else in the room, what
would be the result?” "Confusion,” she re-
plied. "Yes, and destruction, too,” said I”
“That lecture,” said I, “has the same effect on
the human mind. It may answer for fun and
pastime for those who are given up to frivoli-
ty, but it would lead to lunacy. It will con-
fuse, you will admit; you would expect him to
give you a more beautiful picture, but he
leaves you without anything to love or admire
in our Heavenly Father’s words; and yet, the
young and thoughtless will listen and drink
into such absurdities, and grow reckless. May
put young people become more sound in mind
and pure in principles, is my prayer.
	This scientific preacher has so perverted the
Bible that I would never wish to read it, if I
had not previously read if for myself, I am
thankful, however, that I have a knowledge of
its contents, and I know that this popular
scientific lecturer quotes correctly. But why
did he study it so thoroughly? Was it only
to pervert its sacred pages? for sacred it surely
is to those who have learned the two spirits—
the good and the evil. To those who know
the Lord hears and answers prayer as He did
in the days in which the Bible was written; to
those wno have been healed by the prayer of
faith, and have been blessed, even as Job was,
and suffered, also, almost as Job suffered, know-
ing not believing only, that this has been done
in wisdom to prove the faithful Saint, for such
may one well be called who lives in accord-
ance with the law of Christ. Such an one
learns for a surety that He is the same yester-
day, to-day and forever.  Those who lived be-
fore Christ learned the same lesson by obey-
ing the laws of God given to them, and thus
understood the struggle between good and evil;
accordingly they had their experience recorded
for the benefit of their children, and others 
who should come after.


