AUTOBIOGRAPHY
			OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
			Concluded.
	We had considerable sickness that summer;
sometimes all but me were on the bed sick,and
it was all I could do sometimes, to keep up.
[Column 2]
But as the weather began to get cooler, we im-
proved in health. Our neighbors began to
move away- some went on to Winter Quarters,
others moved into the timber on the river bot-
tom, where fuel was plenty; and besides it
was much warmer for their cattle. The
weather began to be extremely cold, and we
were left quite alone, and the howling of the
wolves, as they prowled around at night, made
us feel very desolate and unprotected. We
made a fire in one end of the room, but there 
was not much wood women could pick up. It
was at Mt. Pisgah that I cut down my first and
last tree.  It certainly looked very much as 
though we should perish now, but the Lord
was still mindful of us.
	After the brethren had got their families
comfortably settled in the timber, they joined 
together and built us a small hut and moved
us into it.  They then hauled and chopped
wood, enough to last us all winter; they also
divided their cornfodder with us, so that we
had feed for our milk cow.  So after all  we 
spent a very comfortable and pleasant winter;
and I prya God, who is the father and friend
of the widow and orphan, and the desolate, to
bless those brethren who put forth a helping
hand to assist us in the great time of our need.
	In the spring wagons were sent from Winter
Quarters and we resumed our journey; and
when we arrived at the Missouri River,opposite
Winter Quarters,, and could look over and see
the camp of the Saints, it seemed as though
we had got almost home; for where the Saints
dwelll, whether it is in a city or a desert, a
palace or a hovel, there is my home; and may
God grant that my home may always be with
this people.
	When we crossed the river we found our
friends on the bank waiting for us.  It was a
happy meeting, for we all had endured much
suffering since our separation. Soon after my
arrival at Winter Quarters the pioneers started
fro the Rocky Mountains.  They were absent
through the summer, and returned in the fall;
and in the following spring they started with
their families to cross the plains.  We had a
long and tedious journey before us, and with
the heat and dust, the poor water, and plain
and scanty food, the journey could not be
otherwise than hard.  But I am not going to
give a description of this journey; I will leave
it for Sister Helen Mar Whitney, she can do
it so well.  But one might almost think that
she was having a pleasure trip, when compared
with some in other companies.  But however
long and tedious the trip, it came to an end.
When we got where we could look over into
the valley, it appeared as though it might be a
resting place for the weary exile; but as we
entered it looked more forbidding. Nothing
was to be seen but sagebrush and a few cotton-
wood trees along the course of City Creek. The
fort could be seen in the distance, and one
could not help but wonder where it was
possible to find so much timber as built the
fort. 
	We arrived in the valley in the fall of 1848,
making it almost three years that we were
pilgrims in the wilderness.  We necessarily
had to endure many privations and much suf-
fering.
	Now our journey was ended, but not our
trials; we were in a new country, and much
labor had to be done; our food and clothing
was scarce, and we were without almost every
comfort of life; and being so far away from
anywhere that we did not expect ever to have
anything again, except what we brought with
us, or such as would be raised or manufactured
here in the valley.  But God knows best how
to provide for His Saints, and His ways are
marvelous. When we look back and comtem-
plate the history of this Church from its
rise until the present time, who can doubt that
the hand of God has been over us, and pre-
[Column 3]
served and provided for us, and sustained us
in all our afflictions, and that everything has
tended for our best good, and in accomish-
int the purposes of the Almighty?  And al-
though our enemies have followed our footsteps,
and are still seeking our overthrow, yet the
same God reigns to-day that reigned forty and
fifty years ago, and He will turn and overturn,
until His purposes are all accomplished, and
the wicked can go no further than He permits.
When we entered the valley we had rooms in 
the fort, where I remained through the winter,
until the first day of March, 1849, when I
moved into a room in the house of Brother
Lorenzo D. Young; about nine o' clock that
evening my eldest daughter, Emily Augusta,
was born.  I have had seven children, two
boys and five girls. Five are living (1885.)
My Nauvoo boy died when he was about seven
years old; my youngest daughter, Luna, died
at seven months.
	In 1872 President Young deeded me a house
and lot in the Twelfth Ward, and before his
death he made provisions and arrangements
in his will for me to have a comfotable sup-
port while I love. I feel very grateful to
President Young and family for every kind-
ness they have shown me while sojourning
with them; and may the Lord reward all who
have extended to me their favors.
	I will now conclude this short sketch with
the blessing that I received here in this valley, 
under the hands of Uncle John Smith, on the
26th of June, 1849; it is as follows:
	Sister Emily, by virture of the holy priest-
hood, I place my hand upon thy head in the
name of Jesus of Nazareth, and seal upon thee
a patriarchal or father's blessing, for thou art
of the blood and lineage of Joseph, through
the loins of Ephraim, and a lawful heir to the
priesthood, which shall be conferred upon thee
in fulness in due time.  Thou hast seen trials
and afflictions, and thy heart has been weighted
down with sorrow; but the Lord loves thee,and
because of the integrity of thy heart He will
lift thee up.  Thou shalt be exalted to inherit
a kingdom and dominion that shall never end.
	Therefore, sister be patient, for the Lord
has great blessings in store for thee.  And I 
seal upon thee all the blessings of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob.
	Thy posterity shall be numerous, so they
cannot be numbered for multitude.  None
shall be greater in the house of Israel. Thou
shalt be blessed with riches, even all the riches
of heaven and earth; and thy name shall be
had in honorable remembrance in the house of
Israel till time shall be no more.  Thou shalt
be blessed with health and peace, and every
blessing which thy heart desires; shalt live un-
til thou art satisfied with life; shalt enjoy all
the blessings, beauties and glories of Zion;
shall come forth in the first resurrection with
all you father's family and friends that have
gone before thee, and inherit eternal lives; even
so.  Amen.


