ESSAY READ BEFORE Y. L. M. I. A.,

	BURNHAM, San Juan, July 24th, 1885.
MY DEAR FRIENDS:
	As my name is on the programme for a reci-
tation, I beg leave to read the following
thoughts instead:
	In endeavoring to find something for the
present time, one's mind is so bewildered with 
such a mixture of ideas that it is difficult to
gather the better ones together so that they
may be readily understood; however, as I claim
to be neither a speaker or a writer you will not
criticise my attempt with too much severity,
and I trust that the little here presented may
be done so by the Spirit of God, for I know
that without this same Spirit it is impossible to
interest.
	It is certainly time that we, as Latter-day
Saints, old or young, should be alive to the
duties devolving upon us as mothers, wives or
daughters. We each have our part to play in
the great drama of the present day, when the
prince of darkness, with his hosts infernal, are
plotting to destroy the Kingdom of God, and
tempt the Saints to break the covenants we
have made with each other and our Heavenly
Father; and unless we are humble, Satan will
have more or less power over us; but if we
strictly attend to every known duty and be
very prayerful, dedicating our all to God, we
will come off victorious, though the struggle 
may be long and hard. We may sometimes
feel, as His daughters, that we are given more
trials than we are able to overcome, and that
the sacrifices we are called to make are very
great, even more than we can bear; and they
would be, were we not led by that sweet spirit
that whispers peace and comfort to every heart.
What our Father has given us to bear is for
our eternal happiness and glory in the great
hereafter; and even here, were we to view it
from a truly unselfish standpoint, God requires
nothing at the hands of His children, man or
woman, only that which would be for their
greatest good, physically, intellectually and
spiritually, if we would accept it as given.
Then He has given us our weaknesses to over-
come so that we may not forget our dependence
on that mighty arm that never groweth weak.
We are also blest with faithful husbands, on
whom we can lean with perfect trust, knowing
that we will never be forsaken as long as they
remain true to the principles of the Gospel,
for deserting wives and innocent children is
not one of the creeds of Mormonism, and
though our best men are brought before courts,
where, it seems, Lucifer himself rules, where
our faith is mocked at, the sacred relationship

[Column 2]

we hold to each other is ridiculed, delicate
women insulted, innocence outraged, the in-
mates of loved homes driven as fugitives,
while the same courts will turn adrift the
adulterer, the murderer and the perpetrators
of the most damning crimes, and yet an intelli-
gent world will not say it is unjust; but we
know and say, that though prison walls may
stand between what God has united, and death
itself stare us in the face, or even come with
all its grim terrors, they cannot separate us
from our loved one only for a time, for our
union of heart and soul is an eternal tie,
bound by the power of heaven, and even hell,
with all its legions, cannot tear it asunder, if
we ourselves keep our obligations.
	Why our sisters of the world really pity us,
but they can never know how much more we
pity them, and would not give up our humble
faith in God and our quiet homes, for their
millions and dazzling splendor, for well we 
know it is a hollow mockery. The happiness
many of them feign, and the smooth surface,
often only covers a seething torrent of wretched-
ness beneath.
	We should feel, and I believe we do, that we
are a highly favored few. How could we live
and know that the fathers of our innocent
babes were destroyers of virtue, ruiners of
happy homes, and their very pretence of honor
was a living lie of the blackest hue? Yet some
who so kindly sympathize with us feel that the
man they call by the sacred name of husband
or father, is unworthy and their better
nature shrinks from the luring serpent;
but they are bound with the chains of Baby-
lon, which are linked with fear and pride, and
in time they learn to crush all the true in-
stincts of pure and true womanhood. While
we develop the love and desire for children,
many are bringing down the curse of an offend-
ed God on themselves, by destroying this in-
nocence before it is given birth.
	If, instead of condemning us without know-
ing why, they would study to find out the real
motives that govern our people, they could
partially understand that we willingly share
the love and comforts of our homes because it
is a command; that, being convinced of its
truth, we dare not disobey, and we have learned
that we can overcome our selfishness to the
extent that a willing obedience to this law will
bring greater joy than any other earthly condi-
tion could possibly do, and we can love the
ones chosen even as natural, and I believe
there is often an affection surpassing this; but
if we do let the evil one creep into our hearts
and magnify every fault, hatred and untold
misery will fill our bosoms, instead of that
sweet peace, which we can have if we choose.
I think I not only speak the feelings of the
few sisters in our isolated home, but all
through our fair Utah, that we, as a band of
sisters, are made more determined by the
present persecution to live nearer to God,
while we will do all we can to rear our child-
ren so they will follow in the footsteps of those 
who so nobly lead the way.
	The events of this memorable day, many
years ago, will ever remain green in the hearts
of the Saints, and they will bleed anew over
the sufferings of our noble pioneers, and the
trials and privations of our parents who set-
tled the once sterile, but now lovely Deseret.
	Shall we not strive to become worthy such
parents, and say, "God bless and protect them,
and our honored leaders, and all the loved
ones, from the clutches of that wicked one,
who is ever on the alert to lead us from the
principles of right and justice.
