ANNIVERSARY GATHERING
	The Annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the Nineteenth Ward was held in the meeting
house on Tuesday, July 21st, at six o'clock. Three
tables were spread in the adjoining hall, and over
one hundred ladies sate down to a sumptuous re-
past.  Choicest fruits and beautiful flowers graced
the tables, and young girls in dainty muslin caps
and white dresses, fluttered about waiting upon
the tables, looking very charming, indeed. Mrs.
Mary Irvine, President of the Association, and
her Counselors, Miss Agnes Underwood and Miss
Bessie Deane, were seated at the head of one of
the tables.
	At half past seven p.m. meeting commenced in
the large hall, Mrs. Mary Irvine presiding. Opened
by singing, "Gladly Meeting."  Prayer by Elder
John Irvine.  Singing, "Did you think to pray."
Minutes of the last annual meeting were read and
approved; then an excellent opening address by
Coun. Agnes Underwood.
OPENING ADDRESS.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
	We have met here this evening, as you all know,
to celebrate the anniversary of our Young Ladies'
Association, an association which we hope to
make one of the best of its kind.
	And we feel, though we are only two years old,
our influence bas been felt, and that for good.
True, our progress may have been slow, but I
think the careful observer must admit that it has
been equally sure.  Our hope and aim is to here
form the characters of some of the noblest women
that have ever graced this fair earth, that future
generations may not only thank us for our weak
endeavors, but feel to bless him who was instru-
mental in the hands of God in organizing these
Associations.  All honor, then, to our lamented
Prophet, Brigham Young.  We can truly say,
"Though thou art absent thou art not forgot-
en."
	We, as Latter-day Saints, believe in woman’s
rights, and we mean to maintain them.  We claim
it is our right and our duty to become conversant
with the topics of the day, that we may be able to
cope with the oppression that may be brought up-
on us by our enemies—striving to become intelli-
gent and bright, and never neglecting home duties
—where the heart of every true woman should be.
We have material here for a noble structure, and
if property cared for will be one of which we can
be honestly proud.
	And in this Association we will, by the help of
our Heavenly Father, strive to learn and teach
those things that will enable us to associate with
the good and noble of this earth, and fit us to
dwell with the angels and the Gods; and we will
strive so to spend our time here, that we shall
be missed when we pass away, and those who
have been associated with us will be the better for
our influence. 

“May each rosy morn, dressed in mantles of peace,
Shed health o’er our dwellings and our blessings increase."
	A Recitation by Miss Emily Deane, "Jennie
McNeal;"  Organ Solo, Miss Vilate Nebeker;
Essay on Character, Miss Jane Albrand, which
contained some very excellent ideas; Song, Miss
Bessie Deane, “Forgive and Forget;” Lecture on
the Mind, Miss Ella Nebeker; one of the best
productions on the subject that we have ever
heard given, and would bear repeating in every
Association in the city.
	Brief addresses, upon subjects suitable to the
occasion, the elevation, improvement and educa-
tion of the youth of Zion, were then made by Sis-
ters M. Y. Dougal, Nellie Colebrook and E. S.
Taylor, after which  the “Song of the Seasons”
was rendered, and following that, remarks were
made by Sisters M. I. Horne and E. B. Wells;
then closing remarks by the President, who mani-
fested a deep and heartfelt interest in the ad-
vancement and progress of the young girls over
whom she presides.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “Sowing." Bene-
diction by Elder Henry Bywater.


