EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Children's Primary Fair of this stake, will,
it is anticipated,be held in this city,about the time
of the Quarterly Conference in September. The
little folks in each Primary Association should be
making preparations so as to make a good show-
ing. The place of holding it has not yet been
decided upon,but due notice will be given through
the papers.
	We regret exceedingly to learn that Helen
Hunt Jackaon the celebrated author H. H. is re-
ported to be dying in San Francisco where she
has been declining in health for the past four
months. Mrs. Jackson is one of the most intelli-
gent women of modern times, and one of the
most charming women in manner and con-
versation. With a superior education and a
world-wide celebrity as a writer she has no such
affectation as many distinguished people display
in their association with the the people. Her work
and travels among the Indians was one that told
the story of her genuine feeling for the oppressed
her keen sense of injustice with which they had
been treated.
	We hope to hear that Mrs Jackson is recover-
ing for she is one of those whose life is valuable
to the world at large.

[Column 2]

	WE trust the sisters in the country settlements
as well as those in the city and throughout the
several Stakes of Zion will take notice of the an-
nouncement in this issue made of Dr. E. R.
Shipp's class in midwifery and will use their in-
fluence in behalf of medical students from the
vicinity in which they reside, that those who need
from time to time the attention of nurses and
physicians may have those in their own neighbor-
hoods capable of officiating under any circum-
stances. Dr. Shipp has had considerable ex-
perience in teaching and has a pleasant manner
of imparting instruction, and of adapting her
language to the comprehension of her students
using short and simple words and phrases easily
understood, instead of those difficult terms which
require so much explanation afterwards. She is
sympathetic in her nature and enters into the feel-
ings, desires and ambitions ot the students.
	It is an excellent opportunity for obtaintng
knowledge that can be applied for the good of
humanity and it is a profession for which the
world will always have a place. Young women
who wish to obtain knowledge of the human
organism would do well to attend these lectures
even if they never made other use of the intelli-
gence except in the matter of caring for themselves
and their own offspring. Dr. Shipp has proved
herself a thoroughly competent teacher, and ought 
to have a wide patronage.
	THE circular of the Brigham Young Academy
at Provo, of the tenth academic year has been
received and glancing through it we find every-
thing is taught there that it is desirable for the
young people to learn. Arts and Sciences music 
and needlework are included. There is also a
Theological Department conducted with the ut-
most care and there is a grand opportunity for
religious training which is a proper balance to 
all other studies. Professor Karl G. Maeser is
the principal of the institution. He has had a long
and wide experience as a teacher and is pro-
foundly thoughtful as well as educationally pro-
ficient on all subjects mental, moral and spiritual.
	WE have also received the circular of the 
Brigham Young College at Logan of the
eighth collegiate year. The circular contains a
historical sketch of the founding and progress of
the college since its commencement, also its re-
ligious features, and Preparatory,Normal, and ad-
vanced Courses and Graduation. Terms Vacations
and names of students of 1884-1885 and of those
who received certificates etc. Concluding Remarks 
upon the present capacities and facilities of the col- 
lege. Both these institutions offer excellent oppor-
tunities for the young people of the Territory boys
and girls alike and are situated in towns where there
are ample accomodations for students and where
provisions of all kinds are reasonably cheap.
Board costing only three dollars per week. It is
a source of congratulation to a new territory like
Utah to have three such fine institutions of'
learning as the Deseret University in Salt Lake
City, Brigham Young Academy in Provo and the
Brigham Young College in Logan, where all the
highest branches of learning are taught by teach-
ers eminently qualifiied for the positions they
have been chosen to fill.


