WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Since this noted preacher has learned so
much of the spirit of the world, and how to
please the world, by recklessly destroying and
misconstruing that which was given us for
good, to keep our feet in the straight and
narrow path, he should learn as much of the
opposite spirit, and I would promise him if he
would be as diligent in the pursuit as he has
been in the other, he would be a wiser and a
better man. He might even become as great
as St. Paul was, if his desires are to serve God
in all that he does, as St. Paul did.
	My sincere prayer is that he may become
acquainted with that good spirit which the
Savior said belonged to little children. Had
he died when a child he would have inherited
a glory which he will lose if he does not re-
form and seek after the wisdom and intelli-
gence he so much needs. After rooting out
iniquity, he needs wisdom and intelligence to
give all things their proper value, and also
their proper place. When he can do this he
will find that he has not lived in vain; he will
then be so happy he will wish to live forever,
and the righteous have this promise, while the
wicked must taste the second death, because
they choose evil, though they were made good,
and choose to follow the workers of darkness,
in preference to those of light and greater in-
telligence. It may be that this lecturer will
tire in this pursuit and want something better.
	Too many of our young people have swal-
lowed this rubbish because the gilded bait was
science. We are all lovers of science, but
while we admire the principles which control,
and the laws which govern the universe, shall
we ignore the Author of all this stupendous
machinery, which moves in such perfect har-
mony? No! no! Those who know Him most
should admire and love Him best.
	The Bible has always been a source of
pleasure and satisfaction to me, because written
for our guidance when the opposite spirit ap-
pears, for we must inevitably meet the opposite
while in our sojourn here, and it strengthens
us if we know we are right. In the common
affairs of life we cannot always tell a servant
to do the same thing at  another time, but we act ac-
cording to circumstances, and our Heavenly
Father does the same, and all for the good of
His erring children.
	The Lord always gives light and intelligence
to a people whose hearts are right, and minds
pure before Him. And now, since there is a
people upon the earth who are determined to
serve Him to the best of their abilities, behold,
how much light has been given to the human
family in the last fifty years. Shall we not
acknowledge His hand in all this, or shall we
say, my own skill did it?
	If we cannot acknowledge the hand of an
alwise Parent in the discoveries of science to-
day, I fear that darkness will overwhelm us
again; and if it does it will be because of our
stupidity in not acknowledging the hand of
God in all things.
	A people who will not do this - what need
they expect, and in fact what do they deserve,
if they possess so much vanity that they take
all the glory to themselves? And again, the
Lord has promised that "in the last days He
would pour out His Spirit upon all flesh," etc.
I would advise those who wish to treat the
subject indifferently, to read the thirteenth
chapter of St. Matthew, beginning at the
thirty-eighth verse, and reflect.
	M. E. K.
	July 15, 1885.


