ADDRESS

[Written for the entertainment given of Mesa City, July
15th, 1885 in honor of the brethren who have been im-
prisoned at Yuma for obeying God's holy law.]

	The daughters of Zion, who believe in the law of celes-
tial marriage, and feel to firmly stand by their brethren in
keeping this law, and uphold them by their faith and
prayers.
	To all those, who have been, are now, or may be im-
mured in prison, or are exiles from their homes and loved
ones, because of their belief in, and practice of the holy law
which God has commanded His priesthood to obey, or they
shall be cut off from His presence.
		Brethren—
Among the noblest ones that ever graced the footstool
Of our God, with feelings akin to love we greet you;
And while we do rejoice that you again are free,
Our hearts are filled with praise to Him
Who rules above, and holds within His hands
The destinies of all.
		We feel to give great honor unto those
Who being called of God to bear His holy priesthood
On the earth, obedient, enter into covenant with Him
To keep His laws and serve Him all their days,
Willing to bear the cross that they may wear the crown.
	What nobler sight can we behold
Than that of men who firmly stand for principles,
God given, nor flinch, nor grow weak kneed,
But bear the penalty inflicted by oppressive laws,
With consciousness that they have done no wrong,
That they should be immured in prison house
Among the vile, condemned for crimes
		Of darkest dye.
	Like honor, also, unto those who wisely keep
Themselves aloof from those, their bitter foes,
Who, in the name of Law, twist and untwist,
And overturn their own decisions,
Determined to convict, at any cost,
All those whom they may get within their power.
		Can he forget, whose body bears
The marks of the assassin's ball that, when
The honor of a state was pledged, it was no safeguard
To God's chosen ones to shield them from the fiendish
	mob,
Who sought their lives, tho' innocent of crime.
		And shall he yield himself into their hands,
When well he knows the course they would pursue,
Tho' he has sought to honor unjust laws in his own life,
But has not sent his loved ones forth, nor broke
His sacred covenants with them?
		May God forbid,
	And shield the lives and liberty of those
Whom He has called to lead His people on the earth,
And give them power to counsel by His will
In things pertaining to the Zion of our God.
			From women's hearts,
		As virtuous, pure and true as ever lived upon the
	earth;
They who have lived this law, and they who have not,
Who know by revelation to themselves that 'tis God's law,
Which he will yet defend, and bring to nought
All those, who do oppose, and cause
That "all iniquity shall stop her mouth,"
While the "righteous shall rejoice,"
And from "affliction He shall set the poor on high,"
"And make Him families like a flock."
	From thousands such as these,
Daily and hourly prayers ascend to Zion's God,
For those who're called to bear these things,
That they have power to endure unto the end,
And firmly stand for every principle of right,
That when the Lord shall bring to pass His promises,
Then they may reign and rule in righteousness
		With Him.	T. L. H.
	Lehi, Arizona.


