MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	On the same day that the funeral of Gen. Grant
was being solemnized in New York City memori-
al services were also held in all the large cities
throughout the United States. The funeral of
this great General and Ex-President was un-
doubtedly the grandest and most imposing of that
of any American however distinguished he may
have been. Full descriptions of the ceremonies
and complete reports of the addresses delivered
are published in the Eastern journals and news-
papers.
	Memorial services were performed for Gen.
Grant in Westminster Abbey on the 4th of August
No greater compliment could be paid to hi.
memory by the English people. Canon Ferrar
one of the most celebrated divines of modern
times delivered an address which embodied the
most delicate sentiments of affection and friend-
ship and admiration for his genius as a soldier in
battle and his devotion to his country in times of
peace. His own countrymen could scarcely do him
more justice or offer truer praise than the tribute
this eminent preacher paid to his goodness and
greatness.
	Preparations on quite a grand scale were begun
in this city at an early date, the matter being in
the hands of a committee of the G. A. R. The 
same day that the funeral of Gen. Grant took
place in New York, memorial services were held
in Liberty Park in this city in which thousands
of people joined. The procession was quite an
elaborate one, and made an imposing display as
it wended its way through the streets on the
route to the Park, with muffled drums and funeral
marches. All the principal personages were
seated on the platform which was quite handsome-
ly draped in black, enlivened here and there with
white garlands, wreaths, crosses and other orna-
ments of choice flowers were displayed,
crape and ribbon, black and white, were wound
around pillars and in suitable places giving the
platform a very handsome appearance as a tribute
of beauty as well as symbol of mourning.
	A very large and elegant painting of Gen.
Grant by Dan Wiggeland of this city was con-
spicuously placed at the back of the stand so as
to be noticable by all the people assembled. It
was heavily and gracefully draped in crape. An-
other smaller painting was on the speaker's table
which was tastefully draped in crape with ribbon
and flowers.
	Several bands of music were in attendance
disposed in different parts of the assembly and
played alternately. The first part of the pro-
cession arrived at the park about 11.30 and the
last after 12. Soon after Commander Hoffman
called the meeting to order and the Opera House
Band played in a very feeling and pathetic style
"Nearer my God to thee." Chaplain of the day
Rev. John Walker Jackson made the opening
prayer, at the close repeating the Lord's prayer
in which all the members of Grand Army of the
Republic joined.

[Column 2]

	Governor Murray was then introduced as Presi-
dent of the day and delivered the opening ad-
dress, a written one, after which he announced
the Ritual Service of the Grand Army to the
Record of the Dead by James B. McKean Post.
	At the command "Attention" from Commander
Hoffman the members of the G. A. R. all rose to
their feet and were asked by the Commander, for
what purpose was this meeting called, and also
if they had a record of the services of the hon-
ored dead in the cause of our country etc., to
which they replied in the affirmative and formally
and politely requested comrade Murray to read it.
Governor Murray then read The Record of the
Dead, a very graphically written and elaborate
paper containing historical data and incidents of
his military life also his presidential career and
closing with some telling paragraphs, laudatory
of his life and character as a soldier, a statesman
and a citizen of the world. At the close of the
reading Commander Hoffman said: "The record
is an honorable one, and as the memory of all
faithful soldiers of the Republic should be
cherished, and their record preserved. I direct
that it be placed in the archives of the Post for
future reference.
	The Ritual service of the G. A. R. by the
Chaplain responded to by comrades was the next
exercise in the order of the day, after which
Governor Ramsey gave a written speech very ap-
preciative and eulogistic of the great General and
his friendship for the man. Judge Bennett's was
the next written address and was more elaborate
in composition than any of the others. His man-
ner in delivering it was strikingly emotional. W.
C. Hall was next on the programme, his speech
was short and comprehensive.
	Hon. Arthur L. Thomas made the closing address,
and speaking without notes and in a very earnest
tone of voice with an impressive manner seemed
really the most inspirational of all the speeches
delivered. The Chaplain pronounced the bene-
diction and the exercises closed with music by
the band. The several bands played some very
inspiring music at intervals during the exercises
and altogether the gathering was a very creditable
one in every respect except for the entire absence
of vocal music which made one feel that some-
thing was lacking.
	The day was a perfect one and there was not the
slightest inharmony in anything to annoy or weary
those who assembled to pay a fitting tribute to the
honored dead.


[Column 1]

