OBITUARIES. 

	It is our painful duty to record the deaths of Claymore,
who departed this life July 3rd, 1885, also Parley, who
breathed his last July 5th, 1885, sons of John. F. and
Elizabeth Snedaker.
	They were faithful members of our society, always ready
to perform every duty. They were beloved by all their as-
sociates and friends, who grieve their loss, but not without
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Dear children, we miss you from our midst, but you
have left an influence that will be felt for good by those
whom you have left. Your knowledge far exceeded your
years, and you have gone to perform a work behind the
vail.
	Our deepest sympathy is extended to Brother Snedaker
and family, and we pray the Lord will comfort their heart
in their great distress.
				FRANCES HANSON, President. 
				H. V. CARLISLE, Secretary.
Mill Creek Ward, 3rd District Primary Association.

	It is the painful duty of the Eighth Ward Relief Society
to record the death of another sister, who has labored with
us as a teacher many years- Sister Mary Golightly. Her
death was very unexpected. She leaves a son and daugh-
ter to mourn her loss. She was a kind and indulgent
mother. By her death the children are orphans, the
father having died many years ago.
	We feel to deeply sympathize with the bereaved ones,
praying God to protect their youthful steps in the paths of
virtue and peace. May they prove faithful to the principles
of the Gospel, which she faithfully taught them. 
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary Go-
lightly, who departed this life August 2nd, 1885. 
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to remove
by death our beloved sister, we, the sisters of the Eighth
Ward Relief Society
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sister
the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher, that we
deeply sympathize with the bereaved family in the loss of
an affectionate mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
minutes, a copy be presented to the bereaved family, also
to the EXPONENT for publication. 
			ESTHER B. FLETCHER, Prest.
			CATHERINE PALMER,
			JANE COWAN, Counselors.

