R. .S. AND Y. L. MEETING. 
	﻿The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 11th, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W.
Wilcox. Singing.  As the minutes of the last
meeting were not brought, minutes of the 5th,
Ward P. A. were read, and remarks were made
by the President on the condition of the people at,
the present time, and the outlopk, etc. 
Brief remarks were made by Sisters H.-M.
Whitney, M. A. Hyde, President of Relief Society 
Sanpete Stake, L. W. Kimball, M. W. Wilcox,B.
W. Smith, Hicks and Sinah Bishop; Sister Dyer
also spoke in tongues, and Sister Bishop gave the
interpretation. Sisters E. Paul and Dr. E. S.
Barney made instructive remarks, and a lady in 
the congregation spoke a few words, after which
President Horne reviewed what had been said,
and adjourned the meeting. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Sister Elizabeth Stevenson.

 Meeting at the same hour and place, on July
25th, Mrs, M. I. Horne presiding. After singing, 
prayer was offered by Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read by Miss Sarah
McGregor. Minutes of the P. A. from the 21st,
11th, 19th and 17th Wards were read, after which
Prest. Horne made some timely remarks, and was
followed by Mrs. E. B. Wells,who addressed most
of her remarks to the young.
	Mrs. Clara A. Cannon bore a good testimony,
and alluded to the imprisonment of her husband,
and that she was denied the privilege of visiting
him in prison, because she was a plural wife.
	Sister Julia Howe bore a good testimony. A
verse was then sung by the congregation, and
Sister Jane Fowler made a few remarks, and sang
a verse of a hymn.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke upon the things
transpiring at the present time, and to the young
in regard to purity of character.
	Sisters Dyer, Kettle, Wheeler, and others,
whose names were not known, made a few re-
marks.
	Sister Mary Smalie spoke very impressively of
her feelings at the present crisis, and referred to
those who were our enemies here, and had made
their money off the Mormons; thought it very
wrong to deal with them at all. She also said
she had seen three rainbows in the western sky
on Friday morning, about five o’clock; they were
very beautiful, and thought it a good omen.
	A sister, name not known, and Sisters Ann
Richards and Annie Snow, and one or two others,
bore faithful testimonies, and Prest Horne made a
few closing remarks and adjourned the meeting
for two weeks. Closed with singing. Prayer
by Sister H. M. Whitney.
		REORGANIZATION Y. L. M. I. A.
	A special meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. held in the
Eighth Ward meeting house July 9th 1885 for re-
organizing.Present by invitation Bishop E.F. Sheets
and Counselors McMurrinand Brockbank,arid Sis-
ters M. Dougal,Nellie Colebrook, E. S. Taylor and
our former president M. S. Leaver. The officers ap-
pointed are as follows: Mrs. Mary Pratt Young,
Prest., Mrs. Jeanett McMurrin and Miss S. A.
Hawkins, Counselors, Miss Eva Morten-
son Secretary, Miss Lizzie Chamberlain
Assistant Secretary, Miss Kate  How-
ard Treasurer. After a short programme, 
remarks were made by the invited guests. A vote
of thanks was then tendered Mrs. S. M. Leaver,
for the efficient manner in which she had held her
office and performed her duty.
		EVA MORTENSON, Secretary. -


