	A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	I read, not long since, an address delivered
at Denver by Bishop Tuttle, in which he gives
the "older Mormons" the credit of being "un-
selfish, prayerful and unworldly minded," and
says: "I can't see that Mormonism is less strong

[Column 2]
﻿to-day than it was eighteen years ago. The
strength of Mormonism is a marvel. When I
first went to Utah I had an idea that Mormon-
ism was destined, in time, to be destroyed by
its own elements of weakness, and in time it
would fling the institution to its death.” He
expresses what has been the world’s opinion for
fifty years or more, but they seem no nearer
to solving this great problem than when they
first began. 
	The testimony of Bishop Tuttle should have
some weight. He testified that from his first
acquaintance with Brigham Young and the
"Mormons,” he had never been unfairly inter-
fered with. He gives his own ideas concern-
ing polygamy, and why it is such a “strength
to the Mormon system,” and says: “The ties of
kindred are very strong, and if we were Mor-
mons we should be very apt to do very much
the same thing.” He has manifested a Chris-
tian spirit, and certainly he ought to be be-
lieved, as he has lived in this city years enough
to become better acquainted with the people
than those who have been but transient visi-
tors, and have sought notoriety, by describing
“Life among the Mormons.”
	He gives one of the strongest testimonies to
the Godliness of Mormonism, though uninten-
tional on his part, but we accept it in that
light. It is no wonder to us that it is so hard
for other sects to convert adult “Mormons.”
Mormonism is a “marvel and a wonder,” but
its destiny is marked out in that ancient record,
the Bible, by inspired prophets, and seers, and
the day is here which so many longed to see,
but died without the sight.
	The same spirit and power that moved them 
to speak of things which they foresaw—
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith—whom the
Lord took while an untutored boy, before his
mind had been warped by the ideas and doc-
trines of men, that He could reveal His will
to the poor and the meek, who were to be
gathered from all nations, kindred, tongues
and people, and we see them flocking by
thousands to our standard, in fulfillment of the
Scriptures.
	There appears such a spirit of fearfulness,
especially among the ministers of the various
denominations, who seem aware of their ina-
bility to stop this work. But Jesus says, “My-
sheep will hear my voice,” and His shepherds
can be easily distinguished from those who
preach for hire and divine for money. They
go forth as commanded by Jesus and trust
Him as their paymaster when they have ful-
filled His command.
	There is one great peculiarity in Mormonism,
which may be noted. Those who have
adopted the faith of the Latter-day Saints,
never go back to enjoy their former religion,
but almost invariably fall into infidelity or
spiritualism. The most of this people have
been converted from the different sects, and
are well posted in the tenets of the various re-
ligious doctrines of the day, but when they
have received the light of this Gospel, that
which they had formerly received fades, and
becomes as a dim taper before the more glori-
ous light which penetrates and fills every part
to the exclusion of all others, which it casts
forever into the shadow of the past. The most-
illiterate “Mormon” is able to comprehend and
explain the principles which they have es-
poused, because they have received a portion
of that divine power that was enjoyed by the
ancient Saints. It brings with it all the


[Column 1]
﻿spiritual gifts and blessings of the Gospel of
Christ, instead of shutting up that fountain of
light and inspiration, from which i[-] is the
privilege of every soul to drink freely, without
money and without price, and contenting
themselves with inferior lights, or the little
that uninspired men may think proper to deal
out.
	The religion called Mormonism takes in all
that belongs to the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
while other churches receive only a part, and
add to it their own vagaries and still call
themselves Christians; and they hate and per-
secute those who have received the true light
which has driven away the darkness that had
shrouded their minds, in regard to this great
and glorious work, and which it would have
been impossible for them to comprehend, had
they still been contented to worship an un-
known God, without body parts or passions,
though we are plainly told in the Scriptures
that He begot Christ in the flesh, and that He
was the express image of His Father, differing
only in age and authority, and that He ate
and drank with His Saints, and taught His
Apostles all that He desired them to teach to
the world, and which, if obeyed, would eventu-
ally bring the human race up to that perfect 
standard, which means nothing more nor less
than the Godhead. This Gospel contains the
keys which unlock the mysteries that per-
tain to the past, present and future, but which
none can understand, nor obtain only by faith
and humility, with constant study, and the cul-
vation of the attributes of the Deity, which
He has implanted in every man and woman.
And they can advance or they can remain
in a state of ignorance. Satan has substituted
spiritualism for the true Gospel, to deceive
those who have a craving for the mysteries,
but have not the key which unlocks the true
mysteries, in which there is a substance and a
reality without fanaticism, or the religious
frenzy which follows other than the true and
genuine Gospel. We "can force no man to
heaven," and Satan is determined to prevent
all he can from finding tho true path, which
is so straight and narrow that few there will
be who will find it. 
	The glorious mysteries which this Gospel re-
veals, and are continually opening to our view,
as we advance in this mortal state, are calcu-
lated to strengthen the weak against temptaion,
and make them more willing to endure the
trials and persecutions, which they are called
to pass through for the Gospel's sake, than to
yield it up to gain the favor of the whole world.
This is the great problem, and which they can-
not solve, because they refuse to accept the
true key.
	The people of God were to be hated of all
men, and we have every reason to believe
this to be the true church, as we now see the
whole world arrayed against it. For this rea-
son we have more cause to rejoice than any
other people; but it is a sad thought that so
many evils have crept into the midst of a
community who have enjoyed such great bless-
ings.  But those who are walking in the true
light are more or less prepared for the events
which are now transpiring, and can hold up
their heads, and endure, knowing that it is only
for a little season, and by these things the pur-
poses of the Almighty will be more quickly
accomplished.	
	The fates, at present, seem against us, and
the clouds may still press down heavier, even
till they assume the blackness of midnight,
still the God of Our fathers will be in their
midst, as He has been from the beginning—
pouring oil upon the troubled waters, and
whispering peace to those who sought Him
early and found Him. Were the world able
to comprehend these things, or to  see the
wealth and exaltation that awaits His faithful
children, there would be a rush from every

[Column 2]
quarter to obtain it. But these things are
hidden "from the wise and prudent,” and only
revealed “unto babes,” who have held on to
every spark or beam which has lain within
their grasp, that they might attain to that per-
fection which is required before we can enter
or dwell in His holy presence.
	Not many days hence and the power of the
oppressor will be broken when the poor and
meek, whose garments have been made pure
through suffering, will reap their reward, and
all the remnants of Israel, and of Jacob, who
have been smitten and driven to the ends of
the earth, will be converted to the fulness of
the everlasting Gospel, and the hearts of
thousands and tens of thousands will be made
glad, and rejoice together in the blessings that
will be poured out upon Zion, when she comes
forth out of the wilderness and shines “forth
fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible
as an army with banners,”
	H. M. WHITNEY.
August 10th, 1885.


