PARLEY. P. PRATT.]

Age after age has rolled away,
Since man first dwelt in mortal clay;
And countless millions sleep in death,
That once supplied a place on earth.

According to the fate of man,
Which God had fix'd in His own plan,
So age must come, and age must go,
Till work complete is here below,

Which has been seen by Saints of old,
And by the prophets was foretold;
Which wondrous things are drawing near,
That Enoch saw and Saints did cheer.

Enoch, who did converse with God,
Stood on the mount and stretched abroad
His soul, wide as eternity—
He rent the veil and heaven did see.

With mighty faith he did expand—
O'er earth and heaven, o'er sea and land;
Till things above and things below,
He did behold, yea, did them know.

His heart he tun'd to notes above,
His soul o'erwhelmed with boundless love;
He sang a song in heavenly lays,
While angels' tongues joined him in praise.

With finger ends God touched his eyes,
That he might gaze within the skies;
His voice he raised to God on high,
Who heard his groans and drew him nigh.

[Column 2]

With joy and wonder, all amazed,
Amid the heavenly throng he gazed;
While heavenly music charmed his ear,
And angels' notes removed all fear.

"Hosanna!" he aloud did cry,
"To God who dwells above the sky,"
Again "Hosanna" did resound
Among the heavenly hosts around.

His voice, he raised in higher strain,
Echoed, and re-echoed again;
Till heaven and earth his voice did hear,
Eternity did record bear.

The trump of God around the throne
Proclaimed the power of God anon;
And sounded loud what should take place;
From age to age, from race to race.

Among the heavenly hosts he sang
God's scheme of life for sinful man;
And for the Gospel's saving grace,
He praised the Father face to face.

The end of all his labors here,
Were all unfolded to him there;
His city raised to dwell on high,
With all the Saints above the sky.

He saw before him all things past,
From end to end, from first to last;
Yea, things before the world began,
Or dust was fashioned into man.

The place of Adam's first abode,
While in the presence of his God;
Before the mountains raised their heads,
Or the small dust His balance weighed.

With God he saw his race began,
And from Him emanated man;
And with Him did in glory dwell,
Before there was an earth or hell.

From age to age whate'er took place,
Was present then before his face;
And, to the latest years of man,
Was plain before him heaven's plan.

His eyes with wonder did behold
Eternal glories yet untold;
And glorious things of latter time,
Which angels have to tell to man.

He then did hear, in days of old,
The message that to John was told;
The Angel who the news did bring,
He heard him talk, and heard him sing;

And knew before the days of John,
What glories were on him to dawn;
The message which he did receive
He heard, and saw, and did believe.

He knew full well what John should hear
Concerning times and latter years;
When God again should set His hand
To gather Israel to their land.

The Gospel then from darkest shades
Should rise and go with rapid strides;
Till nations distant, far and near,
The glorious proclamation hear.

The Angel that this news proclaims
Should come and visit earth again;
Commit the Gospel, long since lost,
To man, with power, as at the first.


[Column 1]
