Clothing for Women. Underwear and Corsets. The Two Sarahs. Why do we wear underwear? As a protection and covering for our bodies. Pure, clean, white underwear is truly an expression of refinement of the highest type, for, "cleanliness is next to godliness." And it should be the pride of every woman's heart be.to have the garments which are hidden just what they should The one-piece garment is most generally worn by us, and should be considered as the most important of all our wearing apparel, and must not be mutilated or changed in any way. Hence, there is a two-fold reason why the purchase of it and the care we take of it should receive our special attention. Cotton is preferable for this garment. The person is fortunate, indeed, who does not have to wear all-wool garments, because of the shrinking qualities of wool when laundered. The cotton ones can be scalded and made perfectly sanitary. The undergarment worn during the day should be removed at night, thoroughly aired and made fresh for the next day, thus removing all chance of unpleasant odor. The skin contains between two and three million pores, all throwing off waste material — two pounds or more a day. By sleeping in the under garments we have worn all day, we absorb into the blood at night all that the skin has worked hard to throw off during the day. In speaking of proper clothing for our protection, a prominent physician was heard to remark that the result of the prevailing fashion among our girls, of being so thinly clad, would be a financial benefit to the doctor, but oh, what a tragedy for the girl. And he asked, "Why don't the mothers assert their rights, take a strong, united stand, and see to it that their daughters dress in keeping with the season, climate and altitude." "If they don't," he said, "the answer to the cry of where are the girls of yesterday will be, they are in the hospital or the cemetery." For our daughters, no article of underwear surpasses m beauty and comfort the combination suit of corset-cover and skirt. For our mothers, the old-fashioned chemise is a very essential article of clothing for women. The high-necked corset cover with the lace or embroidered yoke is quite the thing for women who have been in the Temple to wear. We will find it economical to buy the daisy outing flannel for 
 night gowns; five yards is the amount needed for one gown, and pink is the best color, for it stands the laundering better than blue. Line the yoke with bleach; it wears better. Black woolen tights are a great protection in winter. Slip a piece of elastic through the band for convenience. With this garment, one underskirt is all that is required. A good quality of sateen with silk ruffles make a durable and economical petticoat. Launder your old dress skirts; they make good underskirts, when mended and cleaned, and are neat and economical for the house dress. Buy a good grade of hose for the different seasons. Keep them well darned and gartered. Nothing else wears like the old fashioned hand-knitted stockings made of Germantown wool, like our mothers made for the father and son. An important part of the woman's wardrobe is the corset, or underwaist. Again, I will say, the best is the cheapest; they keep their shape, and can be laundered. For the stout woman the long corset is the most desirable. Medium high bust is a support, as well as a protection. Keep on hand two pairs; one for the house and the other for dress occasions. The large waist being in vogue, the modern corset is less injurious than the old style. The Goodwin make is comfortable for the stout woman. Many wear the H. & W. corset waist; also, the waist girdles often take the place of the corset. Some use heavy canton flannel, underwaists, well boned, for the house, which gives a neat appearance, and they are economical and comfortable. Don't waste money on underwear. Good sense should characterize our choice and use of clothing. Use good material, have your sewing well done, and prettily trimmed, but avoid extravagance and useless expenditure in this as in all other parts of your wardrobe. DAIRYMEN SUFFER HEAVY LOSS IN MILK BOTTLES. Thousands of dollars are lost annually by dairymen through the non-return of milk bottles left with patrons, according to statistics compiled by the Department of Agriculture. In one city alone, in the space of three years, 1,500,000 bottles were rescued from municipal dumps by a milk-bottle clearing house. The average bottle, it is claimed, makes 22 trips before it is lost, which, at a price of 32 cents per bottle, would mean a yearly loss of $5,575 to the dairyman delivering milk to 10,000 customers a day. It is contended that in reality only a few of the bottles are broken, the greater number of them being thrown into ash barrels by persons ignorant of their value.