Grain Saving in the Relief Society. The following interesting history of the origin and continuation of the grain movement was prepared, eight years ago, by Sister Annie Wells Cannon, who was Chairman of a Committee appointed by the General Board, in 1906, to do this work. Since that time, this vast store of wheat has been added to until, at the present time, we have 157,000 bushels of wheat on hand, with granaries owned by the Society, valued at over $33,000; while, during the year 1913, $6,000 was received for wheat funds, and $22,000 was received for wheat sold. Wheat is turned over in the bins, and is also sold occasionally at the end of two or three years, and replaced with fresh wheat. Now, more than ever, the sisters engaged in this enterprise should consider the call for saving wheat as that of divine inspiration. We still have with us, as a very precious historical figure, the woman who was chosen by revelation to President Brigham Young, as a leader in this wonderful grain saving movement. Like Joseph of old, she has stood as a beacon light for the women of this people in this glorious work. President Emmeline B. Wells will be 87 years old, on the last day of February, and it is in compliment to this marvelous woman that we have made the February number of our Magazine a special wheat number. The Magazine contains not only this excellent report which follows, but also a full article on wheat and bread from the pen of Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, who is a member of the General Wheat Committee, while other writers treat upon this subject in the various departments of the Magazine. We join with every woman in this Church in saluting our beloved President, on this auspicious occasion, and in offering up our love and gratitude to our Heavenly Father that she is spared to see this day. A day when, no doubt, she will be able to see clearly through the devastating wars which are now raging in Europe, that the mission which was given her, so many years ago, was not in vain. Many hungry babies will be fed, many starving mothers will be rescued, no doubt, through the faithful integrity of President Emmeline B. Wells and her associated sisters in this Society, in saving grain for famine need. The report which was printed in circular form in 1906, follows: GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 
 Prepared by a Committee of the General Board Appointed by the General President, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Early in the fall of 1875, President Brigham Young sent for Sister Emmeline B. Wells to come to his office, as he had something important to tell her. Sister Wells was then the associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, and she supposed the question was something relating to her work on the paper. When she met the President, he told her he wanted the women of Zion to begin to save and store grain against a day of famine, and that she was to lead out in this matter, and also through the columns of the Exponent must agitate this question. Following President Young's counsel Mrs. Wells wrote an editorial on this question and published it in the Exponent of October the 15th, 1876. This editorial was submitted to President Young and approved by him, before published. The editorial referred to, entreated the sisters to be in earnest, repeating the counsel of President Young, his warning concerning the time of famine that would one day extend over the land. President Young said the Relief Society and cooperative organizations in which some of the sisters were interested, had means at their disposal from time to time and they could use such means in buying and caring for the grain. He further advised the sisters to enter into such arrangements as are applicable to their circumstances in their various districts and settlements, to build storehouses for the storing of grain in the sections of the country as they shall divide off or apportion to certain localities, also that they solicit donations from their husbands and the brethren to assist them in carrying out this enterprise, both for the building of the storehouses and in obtaining grain to fill them and preserve it for future need. The enterprise thus started was talked about in the different gatherings of the sisters from time to time, both Relief Society and Retrenchment organizations, and the signs of the times at that time seemed to point to a realization of the prophecy of a famine, for the grasshoppers had made great havoc among the farms and fields of the husbandmen, and for two years these little pests nearly devoured all the grain, but the people conquered them and again the harvests were plentiful. On November 1st, 1876, Mrs. Wells published a second article in the Exponent, which like the first one was submitted to and approved by President Young, strongly urging the societies in the different localities to go to work immediately in this matter and send in reports. At this time it was quite evident that decisive steps be taken towards forming an organization for the special purpose of storing grain. Accordingly, at a regular meeting of the Retrenchment Society, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly 
 Rooms, held November 11, 1876, and presided over by Sister Eliza R. Snow in the absence of the President, Sister M. I. Home, all the leading sisters present spoke upon the matter, and by motion of Sister E. R. Snow and the unanimous vote of the meeting, Sister Emmeline B. Wells was appointed chairman of the Central Grain Committee, and she then selected Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith as her assistants. Elizabeth Howard was made secretary and Priscilla M. Staines, treasurer. At this meeting Sister Snow read a communication from Bishop R. T. Burton in respect to storing the grain in the General Tithing Office, stating that the different wards that have not suitable storehouses could store their grain there, but would be expected to attend to the arrangement themselves, as the hands employed there had no spare time. The Central Committee were supposed to be kept posted in regard to the different ward and branch committees, in order that there might be a concert of action and a complete system of management. At this time it must be understood that the grain storing was not given to the Relief Society, but to all the women of Zion. On November 17th, 1876, a meeting of the Central and Ward grain committees was held in the Social Hall. At this meeting a Central purchasing committee was appointed. The committee were Sisters Elvira S. Barney, Elizabeth Howard and Sarah M. Kimball. The presidents of several Relief Societies spoke, all favoring taking immediate action towards getting grain and learning the best methods of caring for it. The chairman, Mrs. Wells, said Bishop Hunter had told the sisters there would be plenty of room in the Tithing Office for their wheat, both for the Central Committee and the Wards. Sisters E. R. Snow, L. G. Richards and others argued in favor of having all the wheat in bulk and at one place, and under one committee and not in the several wards. Sister Eliza R. Snow addressed this meeting as follows: "It is a very important occasion that has called us together, probably such as never occurred on the earth before. The Lord, through his prophet, has called the mothers of Israel to prepare for a famine, which makes the subject we are called on to discuss a grave one. We are well assured that the time is fast approaching when the Lord will pour out his indignation on the nations, and although we should escape, we will feel the effects in a national capacity. Our hearts must be hard indeed if we will not feel for those who may come to us for help. The Lord showed his servant Joseph that such things would come, and it was of such a nature and so distressing and revolting to humanity to witness, that he asked the Lord to close it up. We can see from what has passed that the predictions of the servant of God have been GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 53 fulfilled to the letter. The prophet of today has now called on the women of Zion to purchase and take care of wheat, and I hope we may act with wisdom that the blessing of God may rest upon our labors." Though there was a Central Committee and Central Purchasing Committee, still the several wards were also allowed to have committees, and each ward had the privilege to choose whether to save and store with the Central Committee or by itself. It was reported at this meeting that Manti had already stored about seventy bushels of wheat, and other towns reported a beginning in the matter, while Morgan, Summit and Wasatch counties reported their wheat crop nearly all destroyed by early frosts. Early in the year of 1877 reports came from various wards that grain committees had been organized. These usually consisted of a number of sisters to visit through the ward or settlement and solicit means with which to buy grain, and the ready response made to this call was quite remarkable. Within the first three months Mendon, Wellsville, Riverton, Smithfield, each reported 100 bushels; Mill Creek 100 bushels and $13.00 with which to buy wheat; Gunnison reported 344 bushels and that they had resolved to add weekly to the amount. The Bishops in the different wards loaned the use of bins in their own storehouses until the sisters could build granaries. The Retrenchment organization joined the Relief Society in this movement and even the children helped gather the wheat. 
 At the dedication of the Kaysville Ward Relief Society House, President Daniel H. Wells, in speaking of the work of the sisters in their various duties, said: "To some people it may seem curious to ask the assistance of the sisters in taking measures in the saving and storing of grain. Why should it? Should a famine come, the women would have to suffer hunger as well as the men. In the storing of grain the men have been tried for years, but they have continued to let the grain go. Now we want to see if the sisters will be more successful. It is good to store up for a time of need. It is wisdom that we should treasure up our grain." In April, 1877, the Exponent again published the editorial containing President Young's counsel and advice to the sisters on the grain storing. Also urged the Saints that their prayers might be offered up in behalf of a fruitful year that our harvest would be plentiful. This year, 1877, the sisters not only bought wheat and exchanged the labor of their hands for grain, but after the harvesting went in to the fields in large parties and gleaned, thus very materially increasing the amount of wheat in their storehouses. The Bishop of Gunnison called for volunteers every Sabbath among the brethren to take their teams and carry the sisters to the fields and home again. The gleaning was considered a clear gain and was carried on for some years. During this year the leading sisters in Relief Society work, namely, Sister E. R. Snow, Z. D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah M. Kimball, M. I. Home, E. Howard, Phebe Woodruff, Jane S. Richards and others, visited the different wards and settlements throughout the Territory and urged the sisters to be unfaltering in the work, and the columns of the Exponent contained much counsel on this subject. From one article, "To Women's Organizations Interested in Storing Grain," we make the following extract: "It must be understood by all who heed the counsel of President Young in this matter, that the grain is being stored for Zion, that no person, or committee, or president of society, has the right to draw out or dispose of any of it, for any purpose. The design is to secure as much as possible, to garner it carefully and when the right time comes to use it; the proper method of disbursing will be revealed by those who hold in trust for Zion, in as plain and simple a manner as was the counsel to purchase and store it." In August, 1877, President Young died, but his advice was heeded just the same, and on November 17th, the same year, the annual meeting of the Central Grain Committee was held, this time in the Council House. The chairman, Mrs. E. B. Wells, then reported the aggregate amount of grain in good condition stored within the year, since November 17th, 1876, to the present time, November 17th, 1877, as 10,465 bushels. Of this amount GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 55 2995½ bushels were gleaned by the sisters, 59 bushels were bought with Sunday eggs saved by the sisters of Deweyville, Box Elder county. Also 7,358 pounds of flour, and cash on hand with which to buy wheat $329.10, besides quilts, carpets, and other products of the sisters' work, which they intend disposing of to buy wheat. Granaries had been built in the 15th and 11th wards of this city. This report included Salt Lake, Utah, Millard, Beaver, Sanpete, Sevier, Summit, Tooele, Davis, Weber, Morgan, Cache and Box Elder counties. There were several settlements not reported. Present at this meeting were President John Taylor, Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter, Sisters E. R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe Woodruff, Elizabeth A. Whitney, M. I. Home, Z. D. H. Young, E. Howard and a large congregation of women of this city and near localities. Bishop Hunter made the following remarks: "It has been said that bread is the staff of life; when we first came to these valleys, and indeed since then, we have suffered for the want of it. We don't want to go through so severe a trial again; at all times we should have wheat on hand. The Lord has been merciful to us, he has blessed us with much grain and much of it has been wasted, but in the future I hope we will be more careful of what the Lord has so abundantly blessed us with. Our Relief Societies are doing much good. They have saved much suffering and have been a great help to the Bishops. They have the Priesthood, a portion of Priesthood rests upon the sisters. They are doing a good work and particularly the storing of grain is commendable." President Taylor's remarks on this occasion were quite lengthy and full of wise counsel to the sisters on the various lines of their work, but about the grain he spoke as follows: "I consider this gathering and storing of wheat as of great importance. I am pleased to find that you have succeeded as well as you have, yet you have not a great deal, considering the size of the Territory, but you will increase. It puts me in mind of the history of Joseph. It took seven years in that day to prepare for the seven years that were to come. We have not any defined time, but we will have to keep pace with our families, which you know are increasing rapidly. If you sisters can help us and succeed in saving wheat for a case of emergency, it will be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship that could occur. We have been careless, we did not save our wheat as we should have done, and now if the sisters take heed to these things the men will find out that their wives have been wise in doing this thing according to counsel. I am pleased to see that the young ladies are taking an active part in the work." Remarks were also made at this meeting about the gathering 
 and care of the grain by the prominent women present, and the sense of the meeting was that greater exertions should be made the following year, and that the wheat and wheat money should be kept entirely separate from other accounts. Also that the wheat donated should not be taken for building storehouses, but that the brethren should be asked to help in this matter. In 1878 the sisters were advised to plant and store beans as well as wheat, as they were said to be easily raised and harvested and required less care in preserving them, than any other product. They are said to contain more nutriment than any other food, and mice and weevils are never found among them. The Relief Societies who have land at their disposal, where it is not convenient to raise wheat, were advised to plant beans. November 23rd, 1878, the annual grain meeting was held, this time in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Chairman Mrs. E. B. Wells presiding. The report this year was 14,535 bushels of wheat, 1,658 pounds of flour, and seven bushels of oats, added to the report of the previous year made a total of 25,000 bushels of grain. At this time thirteen granaries had been completed by the sisters. November 15th, 1879, the fourth annual grain meeting was held and much of interest about the grain gathering was said by Sisters S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith, Phebe Woodruff, S. M. Heywood, Sophia Nuttall, Hannah T. King, Prescinda Kimball and others. About this time several settlements sent in reports of granaries built and wheat saved, and gleaned, which had not before reported. At the different stake conferences the sisters received much encouragement from the Presidents of Stakes. At the Jubilee Conference, April, 1880, the sisters voted to loan the wheat to the Bishops for the poor. On this question the sisters were requested to vote first separately. It was the woman's part of the blessing to the poor in the jubilee year, but the Bishops were the responsible parties and gave receipts therefor, with the promise to return the same quantity of wheat to the sisters' keeping. After this step the question often arose, "Can the sisters loan the wheat and receive so much on the bushel?" The question was answered editorially in the Exponent in this way: "Providing the transaction is perfectly just and business-like, it might be done and the store increased, but no such counsel has ever been given by authority, and were the sisters to pursue this course, some unforeseen need might arise, and the wheat be loaned out just when most needed. The counsel at first given and never recalled, was that the wheat was to be kept stored up until GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 57 it was called for by the presiding authority of the Church, and it was not proposed to traffic in it." — Ed. May 15, 1881. About the time of the organization of the Mutual Improvement Associations, which embraced the societies known as Retrenchment organizations, the storing of the wheat passed entirely under the management of the Relief Society. The central organization of the Relief Society was effected, or perfected, by President John Taylor, in June, 1880, and our perfect system made this more advisable. Therefore the work of the Central Grain Committee was absorbed by the Relief Society; but each Society was told to have a separate secretary and committee for the grain. This arrangement has since been done away with, and the grain is now classed along with other holdings under one single organization. Doubtless owing to the bins having been opened at the Jubilee time and the loaning of the wheat to the brethren for seed the close care of the grain heretofore maintained was no longer kept, and frequently the sisters were called upon to either loan the wheat or sell it and loan the money to assist in building or repairing ward and stake meeting houses, and for other purposes. The Relief Society feeling this to be an important matter appealed to the First Presidency for advice, and the following was given to them, which resulted in the trusting of the grain to the care of the Relief Society organization as follows: 
 "Salt Lake City, July 9th, 1883. "To the Bishops of the Various Wards: "Complaints have reached us to the effect that in some of the wards of the territory a disposition has been manifested by some of the Bishops presiding, to take possession of and disburse the wheat which has been collected by the members of the Relief Society. "This wheat has been collected by the members of this society in the various wards at considerable trouble, and they are the proper custodians thereof, and responsible therefor to the parties from whom it has been obtained. "No Bishop has any right, because of his authority as a presiding officer in the ward, to take possession of this grain. It belongs to the societies who have collected it, and it is their province to dispose of it, for the purpose for which it has been collected, and it should not be appropriated or disposed of by the Bishop for any other object. "John Taylor, "George Q. Cannon, "Joseph F. Smith, "First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Up to the present time the Relief Society has continued to save grain and build granaries, and our report for the years 1905-6 is as follows: 153,753 bushels and 43 pounds of grain. 15,323 dollars and 7 cents cash. We have no record of the exact number of granaries, but there are many. Sanpete Stake reports that every ward in that stake owns a granary and they have always had a plentiful supply of wheat. While up to the present time no universal famine has come upon the land, there have been instances among our own people where the sisters' grain has been the means of preventing suffering. In Parowan Stake, in 1898, and again in 1901, there was a drought, and the people had no crops. The Relief Society was called upon and opened their granaries and gave out 2,000 bushels of wheat to the people. Respectfully submitted, Annie Wells Cannon, Emily S. Richards, Rebecca E. Little, Harriet B. Harker, Committee.