Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. NATIONAL. Stimulants in National Affairs. — At a convention of representatives of life insurance companies held in New York, December 10, it was shown by carefully collated statistics that habitual users of alcoholic beverages, even to a so-called moderate extent, shortened their lives materially by the habit. Notwithstanding this additional warning to the whisky-tipplers, and to others who cultivate like injurious habits, such as do the cigarette and drug fiends, a widely developed human depravity seems to lead most of them along the same suicidal route, either secretly or openly, as opportunity affords. Careful training in, youth to antagonize those bad habits has proved thus far to be the most effective weapon in destroying this downward tendency. A young man strong in moral habits seldom becomes an old man weakling therein. Panama Canal. — Col. Goethals, American governor of the Panama Canal zone, asked the national authorities at Washington to send three torpedo-boat destroyers to the canal at once, to protect its neutrality. If the United States would protect the neutrality of the Panama Canal a larger naval force than this country now has at its command, for this purpose, will be necessary in times of hostilities between other warring nations whose situation may be such that a disregard of that neutrality might be of advantage to them. R. R. Increase. — Leading government officials are expressing the view that an increase of five per cent in railway rates, granted by the United States Interstate Commerce Commission, will do much to revive business conditions throughout the country; this is a concession of business depression heretofore grudgingly admitted. Mexican Affairs. — Mexican contempt for the United States has been in greater evidence than ever since the formal protests against firing across the American border at Naco, Arizona, were filed with the chiefs of the contending Mexican factions. From present indications, promising alternately quiet and disquiet between the two countries, there is being developed a strong probability that matters will drift along with uncertainty until actual war will threaten seriously before the end of 1915. Our Preparation for War. — Discussion of the prepared
 ness of the United States for war has been occupying much public attention of late. There is no doubt that this nation is illy-prepared for a death-struggle with any other great nation; neither does there appear to be any particular possible need for such a struggle. A kind Providence has fortified the United States against all other nations to a very great extent, by its location in the middle of the North American continent, stretching from "eastern shore to western sea." A strong growth of militarism in the United States might readily become an internecine menace. Predominance in the arts of peace rather than in the art of war, is vital to the security of the great American Republic; although a fair degree of preparedness for war's emergency cannot be neglected with safety. INTERNATIONAL. The European War. — A truce between the warring nations for Christmas-time would have been a most desirable accomplishment, if there had been any possibility of prolonging it into a lasting peace; but the mere cessation of hostilities for Christmas festivities, then a resumption after the holidays of the murderous work of war, would have savored strongly of the ridiculous. Egypt of Today. — Great Britain's establishment of a protectorate over Egypt and the Soudan is a further extension of the prophecy of Ezekiel made twenty-five centuries ago and in evidence by actual conditions in the land of the Nile, viz.: That idols and images should be eliminated and there should be "no more a prince of the land of Egypt." Under Turkish rule, and for centuries prior thereto, idolatry had been suppressed and' princes of other nations had ruled Egypt. Now that the Briton has taken hold thereof, the continuance of this condition is made more apparently permanent than ever. In connection with this event, it would not be surprising if Palestine should become a British colony as one outcome of the present European war, instead of being a province of Turkey whose doom as a nation of special influence seems to have been sealed. Lord Beaconsfield's dream of Britain being in possession of the Syrian coast, along the eastern limits of the Mediterranean northward from the Suez canal, seems about to be realized, since, in addition to the Soudan and Egypt, Great Britain has taken possession, within the past month, of the greater part of the Sinaitic peninsula, including the Wilderness of the Wanderings. With the Holy Land under British sovereignty, Jerusalem still would be "trodden down of the Gentiles," yet would experience a much longer stride toward its successful re-occupation by the house of Judah than it has known at any one time since the days of the Caesars.