MARIE JENSEN. Clothing for the Woman Past Forty. The Two Sarahs. MATERIALS. Clothing materials are chiefly products of the animal and vegetable kingdom, and may be classified as follows: Animal: wool, hair, skins, silk, feathers; vegetable: cotton, flax, jute, hemp, and India rubber. Wool. silk, linen, and cotton, form the foundation of all textiles; and are the principal fabrics used for clothing materials. Wool is the skin appendage of the sheep, and has been used for clothing purposes from the earliest times. As a non-conductor of heat, wool takes the foremost place in clothing fabrics. It also quickly absorbs moisture, and does not readily become damp with perspiration. : Its open, rough structure makes it further capable of holding a certain amount of air as well as of allowing free ventilation. It is also strong and durable, and possesses the best characteristics of good dress material. Owing to its elasticity, it greatly resists outside forces, besides retaining its original softness during wear. Many woolen fabrics are reversible. Serges are the most popular of all woolen goods. They are capable of resisting very hard wear; as a rule twilled materials are the best for general service. Cotton is a vegetable fibre obtained from the downy lining of the seed food of the cotton plant. When blended with wool, it is extensively used in the making of cheap clothes; its power of conducting heat is greater than either wool or silk. Linen is obtained from the flax plant — a small, delicate, annual, with a tiny blue flower. As a clothing material, it should not be placed in close proximity to the skin, as it is a very good conductor of heat. We sincerely hope the "made-in-the-United States of America" movement has come to stay. Our leading merchants are showing some of the new spring styles, — the short flare jacket Avith ripple skirts, and the flaring model with yoke made of gabardine, serge and broadcloth. The revival of covert cloth has brought about a return of gray and brown. The full skirt has come to stay, and we are once more permitted to move with ease and grace. The waist line is now up and now down. One fashion book has said the waist-line is mad as a March hare. Some of the popular colors for spring wear are sand color. Belgian blue, battle-ship gray, and putty. The following materials will be used for the summer sea CLOTHING FOR THE WOMAN PAST FORTY. 181 son: Foulard in polkadot and check designs; also crinkley satin, satin crape, stripped and dotted crape-de-chine, falle — a new taffeta made in the United States. For sheer cotton materials, marquesette, voile, net, and soft silks and ratine are appropriate. Long, close-fitting sleeves made of shadow lace, or other transparent material, lined with net or chiffon are used for evening wear. The longerie blouse has come to us once more, with revived popularity. Shoulder yokes of one kind or another are shown; chiffon composes the blouse, and satin the deep crushed (girdle. When making a silk waist, stitch a crescent-shaped piece of the same material under the arm. It will wear longer, and when the outer side wears out, it will look neater than a patch. To work button holes on lace, place a piece of thin goods underneath where the button-hole is to be worked, baste in place, cut the button-hole through the lace and goods after it has been worked. Cut away the goods so that it will not show. Slip a piece of pasteboard three or four inches long into the hem when sewing braid on a dress. You can sew more quickly, and your stitches will not show on the right side. REGARDING INSURANCE. Word has reached this office that unscrupulous life insurance agents, throughout the state, have been trying to hinder the work of our Burial Insurance Committees by saying that the Beneficial Life Insurance Company had sold out to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. All of this is absolutely false. The Beneficial Life Insurance Company is one of the most stable institutions in this state, or in the West. It is headed by President Joseph F. Smith, and the officers are men of known probity and integrity. Surely, our sisters do not need any further guarantee of good faith. If you can be converted to the need of burial insurance, we invite you to insure with the Relief Society agents, and thus provide for yourself and families in case of your death.