Early Development of the Textile Art. Rose H. Widtsoe. THE EVOLUTION OF SPINNING AND WEAVING. Perhaps nowhere in literature do we get a more satisfying picture of ideal home life than is described by Longfellow. He portrays the entire family seated around the great, open fire-place, the father reading alound out of the family Bible, the mother or an older daughter, accompanying the reading with the gentle whirr of the spinning wheel. Unfortunately, the poetic side of primitive home industries is only half the story. Contrasting strongly with homes where this very slow, arduous work was done under pleasant conditions, we have facts which picture to us the hut where the weaver's family lived and worked, without conveniences, without good air, without satisfying food, and without much intelligence. Drunkenness and theft made many homes the scenes of crimes and want and disorder. Superstition ruled the workers. If a certain member of a family, endowed with more virtue and intelligence than the others, tried so to conduct himself as to secure at least self-respect, he was either abused or ostracised by his family and by his neighbors. The reports of the Poor Laws Commissioners of England are truer exponents of the actual conditions existing among people who depended upon these slow hand-industries for a livelihood, than any other authority; and they show the demoralizing agency of pauperism and of all the evils which were so prolific under the hand-system of work. The art of spinning and weaving were very slow in their evolution. History has never discovered the beginnings of these two industries. We are convinced by means of relics and unwritten history that these industries were in existence many years before Christ. The spinning wheel is supposed to have been introduced into Europe about 1530, and from time to time, little changes were made which improved it. The loom of the eighteenth century did not differ greatly from that of the tenth century, and the spinning wheel of 1830 was still in use. Spinning is the process whereby fibers are combined in such a manner that they produce a continuous thread. The simplest method of making a thread is to draw out of a clump of wool or other material a small amount of the fiber, twisting it as it is drawn. The thread thus drawn is then wound on a stone or other convenient object. It was gradually discovered that if the thread were fastened to the stone and the whole twirled, the thread 
 could be twisted faster, and one hand would be left free to draw the fibers out from the mass. Among ancient relics, sticks, or spindles, as they are called, are found with a slit or hook at the end in which the thread was caught. The spinner, holding her wool in one hand, drew out a twist of fiber and fastened it to the hook in the end of her spindle which she then rubbed between her palm and her hip, causing it to revolve rapidly. She then dropped the spindle, and with her free hand regulated the amount of fiber it should draw out. Soon it was discovered that a full spindle revolved better than an empty one, so a disc of clay or wood, called a whort, was attached. This simple tool was used in all parts of the world for many centuries. The next step in the evolution of the spinning wheel was the addition of a simple device to hold the unspun fibers, a stick called a distaff, which could be slipped into the belt or held under the arm, thus leaving both hands free to manage the thread. Not for several hundred years was the spinning wheel invented. This combined the spindle and the distaff in one machine, which had a large wheel, turned sometimes by a foot-treadle, sometimes by hand. The wheel was connected by a string acting as a belt, with the spindle, which in this case was placed in a horizontal position. In the end of the bench which holds the wheel and spindle, and just above the latter, was the distaff on which the raw fiber was placed. The spinner stood or sat before the wheel and with skilful fingers drew the fiber out into a fine thread. In Colonial days, every household had its spinning wheel, and the daughters of the family were eagerly taught to spin. Amongst our own pioneers, the spinning wheel was a common possession. In the early days, in Europe and in our own country, linen and woolen were the fibers most used. Cotton is much more difficult to spin by hand than Hnen or wool. Cotton was not generally used in this country until a much later date. The Hindu, however, has used cotton for hundreds of years, and still spins the finest yarns without a spindle. To show how expert the spinner might become, it is "stated that in England one pound of cotton fiber was spun into one hundred and sixty-seven miles of yarn; but it was impossible to weave it. To prepare wool for hand spinning, the mass of fibers was untangled by cards, which were made of wires set into wood or more often leather, and were used like brushes. By the old method, the wool was often grown, sheared, washed, carded, and spun by one household. By the modern machine method, the long series of processes is carried on by many different machines. The mill that spins the yarn may be far removed from that which weaves it into cloth and still another may bleach and dye it. Flax was more difficult to prepare. The woody fiber surrounding  DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTILE ART. 191 the flax had to be removed by a process of rotting or wetting in water, then breaking and combing. Although the method has been improved, the principles were the same as used at the present time. The Hindu method of separating the seed from the cotton fiber is interesting. The cotton gin consists of two teak wood rollers, fluted longitudinally, revolving nearly in contact, much like the modern clothes wringer. The cotton fiber is put at one side and drawn through by the revolving rollers, which leave the seed behind. The next process, called bowing, consists in cleaning the cotton by means of a long bow, made elastic by a complication of strings. This bow is laid on top of a pile of fiber, then struck with a mallet, and the vibration jars the dirt out of the cotton and also opens the knots. After bowing, the yarn is spun without carding. Weaving is the process of interlacing two sets of parallel threads at right angles to each other, to produce cloth. The art of weaving has gone through an evolution similar to that of spinning. As in spinning, so in weaving, the early stages of its development are lost in past ages. The intertwining of the branches of trees may have suggested weaving in more branches, to form shelter, or tree huts. The rushes from the river bank may have become entangled and suggested the weaving of mats; whatever their source, slowly the suggestions developed and grew in the mind of man, until eventually woven cloth was the result. What a wonderful accomplishment in the growing civilization of man I The implements necessary to supplement the skill of human hands were few and simple in the beginning of this art. Pictures on the walls of ancient Egypt show a very simple arrangement of threads stretched between two bars. Two weavers worked at one loom, which was too wide for one to reach across, and no shuttle was used. The threads woven in were only as long as the width of the loom, and thus a fringe was formed on each side. The early Greek woman stretched lengthwise her threads or warp between two bars, and stood before them interweaving the weft of her beautiful tapestry with painstaking care. The Navajo Indian loom furnishes the simplest type of loom at the present time. It consists of two poles between which the warp is stretched, one pole being fastened to the limb of a tree or to the top of two uprights set in the ground, while the other is fastened to the ground. The weaver sits on the ground in front of her loom, and, beginning at the bottom, works in her differently colored yarns, with the assistance of a shuttle. Alternate threads of the warp are fastened by a cord to a rod which, when raised, makes an opening for her filling thread. The rod is called the heald the opening the shed. The shed for the next filling thread is opened by a stick which passes between alternate threads of 
 the warp; a' heavy stick serves as a batten to beat the filling threads together. As she progresses with her blanket, the weaver rolls it up on the lower rod, and the top is lowered. As is the case with most primitive weaving, the cloth is woven the size desired and there is no cutting. Step by step, devices have been added to the loom; originally, the threads were beaten into place by a stick called the batten, then a rude comb was used. Finally, came the reed, a device much like the comb, but consisting of a frame, or lay, which might be swung back and forth to beat the threads into place. The heddle replaced the heald rod and consisted of a frame of wooden rods with a hole in each, one thread going through the hole, the next through the space between the bars. Alternate threads, by means of this implement, could first be raised above to pass through; then pushed below the others making a different shed. Thus, with one device, plain weaving could be accomplished. The modern harness performs the same function, but two harnesses are used to accomplish the work of the heald, each being raised in turn. The harness consists of a frame in which wires are strung, each wire having a loop in the center for the thread to pass through. The warp threads are put through two harnesses alternating, first one then the other; thus where one harness is raised half the warp is raised; with the other harness, the other half of the wrap. By having more than two harnesses and varying the threading of the warp, different weaves such as the twill weaves, sateen weaves, etc., can be made. For hundreds of years these crude implements were used for spinning and weaving. It was not until the middle of the eighteenth century that a great industrial revolution took place. It was in connection with the cotton trade that new life came to spinning and weaving. A series of remarkable inventions for manufacturing cotton cloth by machinery, revolutionized the whole textile industry as their use spread to wool, flax, and silk. Thus have the arts of spinning and weaving developed from a fireside industry to one of the greatest manufacturing industries of our time. AN OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. An old galvanized tub, turned upside down, and with a hole cut in its bottom to suit the kind of boiler to be used, makes an ideal outdoor fireplace for washdays. A small half circle is cut out, on the upper side, at the back, for the smoke, and another is cut in the lower side, at the front, for putting in fuel, and for draft. — Contributed by Mrs. Julia Bertelsman, San Angelo, Texas.