Current Topics. B\ James H. Anderson. STATE. It is to be hoped that, in view of the present food outlook, the tillers of the soil in this intermountain region will have a specially large area of wheat from which to reap an abundant harvest for 1915. The "wheat number" of the Relief Society Magazine was a most timely issue, as those can testify who took the hint therein and garnered a supply of grain before the marked rise in prices which occurred shortly after that number was issued, and was caused by conditions which few people had foreseen only a few weeks before. For several months past the wife of Utah's senior Senator, Mrs. Allie Smoot, has been seriously ill in Washington, where her husband has an arduous duty to perform as a leading representative of his native state. Sister Smooth's illness is truly regrettable, for she has -been a potent factor in aiding her husband to meet and bear the heavy responsibilities which have rested upon him, and ever to Utah's credit. The many thousands of her sisters of the Relief Society will hope earnestly for her speedy and complete restoration to health. The development of an Indian trouble in the mountainous region of southeastern Utah causes deep regret in all parts of the State. A posse of officers failed to surprise the Indians who were lying in wait for them, and several persons, most of them Indians, were killed in the fighting which ensued. Later, efforts were made to persuade the Indians to submit, and also to give up the one of their number for whom a warrant of arrest had been issued on a charge of murder. In dealing with the red men in early times, when the Indian question was of really great importance in Utah, President Brigham Young insisted on giving the persuasive treatment first and determined trial, and found his policy usually crowned with success. international. The Russian ukase which forbids the manufacture, sale, or use of "vodka," or intoxicating liquor, is simple and effective. It places under the ban all spirituous, vinous or fermented liquors that carry over five percent of alcohol and are in any form to be used or converted into a beverage. This eliminates entirely all CURRENT TOPICS. 183 strong drink, while it permits mild drinks from either grains, fruits or herbs. Six months ago, Germany demanded that Italy should join her in the war. Now, Germany insists that Italy shall remain neutral. The trend, however, seems to be for Italy ultimately to enter the war as the direct antagonist of Austria. "Germany is fighting starvation," is the way some leading German newspapers describe the present European situation. This is a state of affairs very different from the popular idea of six months ago that Germany could subsist for five years with her internal production of food. With its earthquakes and floods, Italy has suffered more severe losses lately than in any of the recent wars in which that nation has engaged. In this connection, it is notable that now, for the first time in history, there has been a great war and great earthquakes and floods in the same vicinity at the same time. For many decades Great Britain and France have been the real support of Turkey, on the theory that the latter government was necessary to the "balance of power" in Europe. Now that it has attempted to throw the "balance" against those nations, the Ottoman empire is to them no longer useful as a government of influence, and it is likely Russia will be given access to the Mediterranean through the Dardanelles, while the Holy Land will likely come under Christian influence for the first time in many centuries. This latter influence, too, has undergone a change from the former conditions, and is friendly to the Jews, rather than hostile. The international discussion over the steamship Lusitania, an English-owned passenger vessel, using a neutral flag — that of the United States — to avoid destruction by a German submarine, has proved a "tempest in a teapot." There was no misuse of the American flag in this instance, notwithstanding the clamor, since it is an unbroken international custom for passenger vessels to protect their non-combatant human cargo in times of emergency by flying a neutral flag. This was done by American vessels in the Civil war, and has been done in every war of magnitude where maritime powers have been engaged. Further, in this instance, the American passengers on board the Lustitania were strictly within their rights in demanding the hoisting of the Stars and Stripes, since they had as much right to protection on a foreign ship as in a foreign country when that flag is hoisted as a shield to Americans who may be in danger.