Beautiful Flower Gardens at Cosy Home on South State Street. 
 Beautifying the Homes of Relief Society Women. We have devoted the few pages of space, which are not otherwise occupied in the Magazine, to articles on the home gardening movement among our sisters. We have three articles from experts of the Utah Agricultural College, and one on Civic Improvement by our own Janette A. Hyde, full of splendid suggestions. Cosy Home of Thrifty Wage-earner on South State Street. Vegetables  and small fruits supply the family table and^ return profits from sale. 
 Profitable Crop of Cabbage and Celery on a Small Truck Garden in Suburbs of Salt Lake City. PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS FOR CIVIC IMPROVEMENT. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. We have accomplished some things, we hope to be able to accomplish many more things; and, indeed, we may say, we hope to achieve all things within the broad scope of Relief Society work. And after all, this work embraces most things that are really worth the while. So this being the case, we are now launching out on a home gardening, home improving, and home beautifying campaign. We invite all Relief Society women to join us in this movement, not only to have cleaner yards, better lawns, and flower-gardens for our own homes, but to broaden out and try to improve the grounds --round about our Churches and our Relief Society houses, and, in fact, all public places. If our sisters, at one of their meetings, would appoint a committee to meet with the City officials of their respective towns, and have plans formulated for improving the grounds of the meetinghouses and other public buildings; offer to furnish the refreshments for those who do the real work; get the digging done, and the ground ready for lawns, it would create much interest in the cause. If you have not the conveniences for sprinkling, have the lawn made in furrows, so it can be irrigated. Plant a few trees — the Georgia poplars will grow almost in any climate, are beautiful 
 and will furnish plenty of shade. Put in a few rose bushes, and at either side of the walk, have rows of sweet elysium or candy tuft, or dwarf nasturtiums. Sisters, if you will buy the seeds and trees, you can easily get the brethren to do the work. Make an effort this spring to improve, at least on the public land. In this, as in all other undertakings of the Relief Society sisters, let us make a success. Let us all work together for improvement around our own homes, and all our places of worship, as well as other public buildings and grounds. Beautiful Flower Garden Raised by the Mistress of this Attractive City Home, Located at Burton Place on State Street. CIVIC BEAUTY.  Hazel Love Dunford of the State Agricultural College. In a recent magazine article, a writer of note said that "most western towns and villages bear an unkempt aspect that requires a touch of twilight to give them kindliness." This is sad indeed and, I fear, too often true, not only of western towns but of America in general. Those who have visited in the Old World, say that in the long settled corners of Europe, men's fields, lanes, 
 ' roads, houses, churches, and even whole villages and towns seem to combine with nature to produce a scenery of a more lovable type than nature alone could offer us. It is quite the reverse in many parts of America. Our yards, lawns, fences, streets, etc., certainly show a lack of a love for civic beauty. In the last thirty years, a great deal has been done in this country to bring up our standard of living. Improvement leagues, civic associations, betterment leagues, etc., have been formed with the express purpose of beautifying our homes, towns and country places. "We are learning how essential an element beauty is in the good influence of the home, in the effectiveness of the school, in the holding and transforming power of the church," says one writer. Many men have realized this in their factory work, and have done much to improve the places of employment to make them beautiful, and thereby keep their employees happy and contented. The love of beauty is natural to every human being, and those who are living without it, are deprived of that which makes for beautiful, happy lives. The importance of pleasing surroundings cannot be exaggerated. It comes closest to the home-life of the people; it builds for good honorable characters. It is a direct agent for the prevention of ignorance, crime and disease, and for the promotion of health, usefulness, and good morals. I wonder if we cannot do something, say, first, in our own yards? The spring is close upon us now. Can we not get the children to help and have a general clean-up day? Make a good time of it, and you will feel better for the out-door exercise. Don't fail to have a good dinner in your plans, — something extra to pay for the effort put forth by the children. Plant some flowers, and get some shrubbery started, if you have none. If one individual on each street would do this, it would act as a leavening agent; you know there is nothing so contagious as a good example. Soon the whole ward will look "spic and span." Many of our meeting houses are sadly in need of a little work about the grounds. I knew of a ward in Salt Lake City that had had a meetinghouse built for twenty years before a lawn was put in. This is a shame to the people of that ward. They were indifferent to their love for civic beauty. One day given to the work, by all in the ward, — say perhaps a spring holiday — and the work could all have been done, — lawn, cement-walks, and flower-beds, laid, and the house of worship changed from an eyesore to a thing of beauty. Nothing can be done without organization; the thing must be done by the community as a whole. With a concerted effort, on the part of the sisters, I know wonders could be worked. The staking of animals, or allowing them to run loose does much to mar BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. 171 the beauty of our streets. In some of the country places, broken vehicles are allowed to stand, year in and year out, about the barnyards, and even in public places. Teach the children (for in them our future hopes lie) to say, "I will not throw paper or other rubbish where it should not be." Think of the money that might be saved if this one little thing were observed, in public parks and resorts. Let us look about us, and see where we can show greater love for civic beauty. A group of men and boys cleaning and beautifying the grounds of the Twentieth Ward meeting-house grounds, on Decoration Day, 1914. THE LAWN. By B. L. Richards, Instructor in Botany, Utah Agricultural College. The lawn, where possible, should be the accompaniment of every effort on the part of man to beautify the surroundings of the home. With the great movement toward the suburban and rural life there has come a corresponding increase of interest in the principles of making and maintaining the lawn. Lawn-making is not alone a problem of rural districts but equally that of the urban home. Every barren or weed-producing spot immediately surrounding the land-limited city home, though it be but a few square feet, should produce a mat of green grass. In its aesthetic effects there is nothing equal to it. The lawn to be a success must have permanency and beauty. These qualities demand a careful consideration and study of some of the fundamental principles of lawn-making. In all the operations 
 of home-beautifying there is none that demands more careful study. The lawn once planted, no matter what care it may receive, can never meet the demands of its owner unless a certain amount of preparation has been made for the seed. No amount of attention and care can compensate for defective soil. The making of lawns is ultimately a local problem, but there are a few general principles applicable to all conditions. In lawnmaking we are concerned, first of all, with the home of the plants; second, with sufficient food for their growth, third, with the preparation of a seed-bed, and, finally, with the selection and planting of the right kind and amount of seed. Carelessness in any one of these steps results in a permanent defective condition that can never be corrected. In the home of the plant we are concerned primarily with the soil. But few localities ever provide ideal soil for the establishment of good lawns. Ordinarily, the lawn is immediately surrounding the residence. The soil in this locality is usually far from being the normal soil of the region. It is greatly modified by debris from building operations or the process of filling. The problem of the lawn-maker is not, therefore, the converting of normal soil, but abnormal soil into a suitable place for the growing of grass. In the outset, it is safe to say that soil which will not produce good potatoes, for example, or other crops profitably is unsafe soil for the lawn. In other words, soil in a cultivated condition is desirable. Soil around the home usually does not furnish this condition, and should be modified by covering or cultivating. Building debris should never be within three feet of the surface. If the refuse from building and other rubbish cannot be covered to this depth, it is more economical, in the long run, to remove it by some other means. The earth from the excavation should also be covered to at least a depth of six inches, as it has not the properties for plant-growth. Often the productivity of soils depends quite as much upon the nature of the soil or underlying soil as upon the soil in which the grasses are placed. Where soil is hauled in, it should always come. from the upper layer of some productive field, preferably from some cultivated area, as this gives an additional protection against weeds. These factors are too often overlooked, greatly to the disappointment of the owners of lawns. The type and texture of the soil has much to do with the water-holding capacity, which is the one big factor in lawn production. Where there is much modifying of the soil it is imperative to keep this factor in mind. Even though this is not so important where water is plentiful, yet provision for the disposal of excessive moisture through proper drainage and the rapid supplying of water from the greater depths furnishes ideal conditions BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. ' 173 for all the natural processes in the soil, such as creation. sanitation and the activity of the lower forms of life, all of which are necessary for plant growth. Soil textures are exceedingly variable, and although productive can be modified greatly to the increased growth of lawns. The soil when productive and well drained is very well suited for the growth of a permanent and even lawn. For the control of the moisture it is perhaps superior to any other type. The difficulty of cultivation and preparation of a good seed-bed can be overcome by an incorporation of a fine sand or sandy loam within the first two or three inches. This soil should also be provided with plenty of organic matter in the form of stable manure. A good clay loam is splendid for lawns, where a provision is made for the proper supply of organic matter. Coarse, sandy soil is unsuited for the lawn, as it is very low in its water holding capacity and especially poor in conduction of water when needed from lower depths. Such soils, however, can be greatly improved by thorough mixing with productive clay. Fine, sandy soil, when underlain with a clay subsoil, produces good permanent lawns, but this type of soil can also be much improved by the incorporation of class. Having provided a proper subsoil, and a productive upper layer of from six to twelve inches, the next problems, as stated, are the provision of plant food and the preparation of the soil for seeding. Fortunately in the Intermountain region nature has supplied her soils with plenty of the mineral constituents necessary for plant life. In most cases, however, it is necessary in the making of lawns to supply additional nitrogen in the form of stable manure. As the lawn is to be permanent, it is hardly possibly' to make the soil too rich in this ingredient which also helps materially in modifying the texture of the soil. From twenty-five to forty loads to the acre can be applied in most cases with safety. This manure cannot be too thoroughly mixed with the soil. The first step in the preparation of the soil for the seed is that of proper leveling. Where filling or the supplying of soil from other localities has occurred, the soil should be well rolled, or sufficient time allowed for settling. Great care should then be taken in making the soil perfectly level or of the desired contour. Grass seed is very small and every precaution should be taken to bring the seed in close contact with the «oil. This may be accomplished only by producing a very fine and homogeneous seedbed, at least three inches in depth. After planting, the ground should be thoroughly raked or rolled and then followed by a fine spray of water. The 3^oung grass seedings are very tender and should never be allowed to become dry after the seed is put into the ground. To prevent this drying out and killing of the seed
 Jings the lawn is often covered with a thin coat of straw or fine manure. However, when water can be applied daily this precaution is unnecessary, if there is sufficient organic matter in the soil to prevent baking. Upon banks where lawns cannot be established by the seeding method, it is often possible to remove sufficient sod from some place where suitable grass has become well established to cover the entire area. This process is successful but entails considerable expense and makes possible the introduction of undesirable grasses and other weeds. Only sod grown for this purpose can be used with safety. The best time for planting is as yet a disputed question. Some favor the spring and others the fall planting. This question must be solved by a consideration of the soil and weather conditions peculiar to the locality. Spring planting should be done as soon as the ground can be safely worked. September and October are both good months for fall planting. In either case seeding just before the occurrence of long dry-spells should be avoided or provided for. Lawn grass should never be allowed to go to seed. In order to secure a uniform sod over the entire area the plants should be kept in a luxuriant vegetative condition of growth. This can be done only by frequent use of the mower. As soon as the plants get two inches high the mower should be used. By keeping the grass at this height during the growing season, a uniform stand of grass can be obtained. If the soil is rich, the clippings may be removed, but if the soil is in need of organic matter, they should be allowed to remain on the ground. This latter method, if cutting is frequent, will not mar greatly the appearance of the lawn. The frequency of watering is entirely a local problem. The lawn should never be allowed to become dry. Owing to the rigid requirements made of lawn grasses those adapted for making of good lawns are few. The Kentucky bluegrass, redtop, and the fescue grasses have all been recommended for our region. The Kentucky bluegrass, 6 lbs. to 3 lbs. of redtop with 1 lb. of white clover as a nurse crop, have been frequently used; however, Kentucky bluegress and white clover are used more frequently and have given better results than any other combination in Utah. This should be planted in the proportion of one pound white clover to six pounds Kentucky bluegrass. One quart to the three hundred square' feet, or about one pound per square rod makes a good, close coat. The white clover produces a beautiful lawn quickly, and answers for a nurse or protective crop for the young, tender Kentucky bluegrass which does not become permanently established until the second year. 
 Nothing but seed of the purest type should ever be used. The introduction of weeds or other grasses with the seed often results in the destruction of the lawn. Guaranteed seed is expensive but is ultimately the cheapest. Jerries, Fruit Trees and Vegetable Garden on a City Lot. WHAT IS TO BE GAINED FROM THE HOME GARDEN By Perceny D. Greaves, of the Utah Agricultural College. The slogan "back to the soil" has started a great, world-wide movement, and we cannot afford to be blocks in the way, but be up and awake and ready to help it along. In all ages great improvements and reforms have been worked up slowly little at a time, taking years for the average person to recognize its worth. City kitchen and roof gardens, and also garden cities, have long been encouraged in foreign countries and in large cities, and it has spread until almost every progressive state is working in line with this movement. The Philadelphia Vacant Lot. Cultivation Association have published their report, for 1911, and its contents are so encouraging that I quote from it. The Association received more applications for land than it was able to fill, a fact which, although it indicates an unfortunate need of employment among the poor, shows, at the same time, the genuine interest which is being taken in this useful and healthful form of labor. As it was, three hundred and eight families, comprising eleven different nationalities, were assigned gardens during the year on seventy-two acres of land. 
 Every family can have a garden. If there be not a foot of land there are porches or windows. Wherever there is sunlight, plants may be made to grow, and one plant in a tin can may be a more helpful and inspiring garden to some minds than a whole acre of lawn and flowers are to others. The satisfaction derived from a garden does not depend upon its area, nor, happily, upon the cost or variety of the plants. It depends upon the temper of the individual. For one must seek to love plants and understand nature. Then gardening takes on new aspects, for if we stop to consider the marvelous changes which take place during the transformation of a seed to a plant, we find miracles as great as those recorded in Holy Writ. What a wonderful transformation it is that changes the inert soil and air into the constituents within the pungent pepper-cress or the delicious flavor of the strawberry! Furthermore, if we will but look within the dark, apparently unchanging, soil, we find it not a lifeless mass, but teeming with countless millions of tiny life toiling night and day to render it fit for the growing plant; and then, when we read Dr. Russell's admirable description of the struggle which is continually going on in the soil, and contemplate the marvels that are being wrought within it and within the body of our living plant, work in our garden takes on new and interesting aspects. This is not all, for we need but stop to examine the beauty, the form and symmetry, of the plants to realize the full significance of the words, "The meanest flower that grows contains marvels too deep for the human mind to fathom." The benefits resulting from this work are many-sided. Not only does it materially help to raise the standard of the individuals themselves, by giving to many families the opportunity to grow wholesome food and earn their own living under healthful conditions, but in transforming vacant and often ugly city lots and idle tracts of land into beautiful and productive areas, it benefits the whole community. How much better it would be for women to spend one of the early hours of each day tending a row of strawberries or raspberries, thus furnishing a beautiful and delicious dish for their table, and, at the same time, enjoying the pure air and health-giving sunshine, than standing over a hot stove in a stuffy little kitchen making pastry. Furthermore, it brings health to the children, who, if given fresh air and exercise, with their rich, red blood and strong lungs, are like little stone walls blocking the way of disease in time of contagion. Not only have the children been improved in health, but the men, women and children engaged in the work, get ideal exercise spending their time in the open air which not BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. Ill only affects the families directly connected with gardens, but it has a continual influence through their habits upon their neighbors. In these days when the importance of manual training is being forced to the front more than ever before, there has been found no method with greater educational powers than gardening. In addition to training the eye, the mind, and the hand together, in proper relations, gardening trains the worker to use great foresight. This is undoubtedly one of the necessary lines of training in preparing children for their industrial work. Then, there is the economic side of the question, for the vegetables as bought from the green grocer's are too often partly spoiled, over-ripe and the like, the inferior part often artfully concealed within a few fresh vegetables. But, what a disappointment when they are to be served! We find that what appears to be a nice bunch has dwindled down to a mere handful. This is not the case with the home-grown material, for it is brought directly from the garden to the kitchen, free from decay and mould which will always linger in the purchased vegetables. How much more appetizing are the fresh radishes, lettuce, pepper-cress from the home garden, than the wilted, sickly-looking, ill-smelling stuff which too often comes from the green-grocer's. But this is not all, for often the purchased vegetables, especially those which are to be served fresh, contain the germs of some deadly disease. There are numerous cases on record where typhoid fever cases have occurred and have been traced to the lettuce and radishes which had been grown in night soil. The Government has investigated several outbreaks of this disease, and has proved conclusively that it was carried from the soil by green vegetables. We may think, "Well, in my case I am so careful in the washing of the vegetables that this could never occur in my family." But we must remember that experiments have shown that even the careful washing in water, much more careful than is done by the housewife, is not sufficient to remove these disease germs. If it were only the few disease-producing germs which may happily to get into the soil that find their way onto the vegetable, we could probably neglect that, but how about those which come from the hands of the pickers while the vegetables are displayed in the open in the customers case many the green grocer's where they can receive germs from the many customers who are continually entering the store. And furthermore, the number and kind of germs are now and then increased by each whiff of wind which dirt picks the dirt from the sidewalk and carefully deposits upon the lettuce, or perchance the strawberries. And, in this case, we are not alone dealing with the typhoid germ, but the tuberculosis and possibly even worse invaders. The freshness of home-grown vegetables cannot be equalled. They are free from disease germs. If one raises just enough for 
 one's own use, he is saving' that amount of money. If one wishes to market the garden, one need only look around to see what is in demand. For instance, even in little towns, hundreds of dollars of 'parsley is sold, and this can be raised in almost any corner. Anyone can start a garden or a picture, but only an artist can finish one perfectly, for it is much easier, as everyone knows, to lay out pictures and to plan gardens than it is to bring them to satisfactory completion. The first bold, sweeping strokes and plans are always full of promise, appealing strongly to the imagination, but when each detail has been carefully worked out, the result is often disappointing. The average gardener, whether professional or amateur, finds greater joy in seeing his garden grow and respond to his care than to walk about in it after, it is all matured. It is well not to attempt to do in one year all the things that a garden spot suggests. Try a few things at a time and improve each year. A garden has a real value in dollars and cents as shown by the following: If we take, for example, a family of four persons, twenty cents per day would be very reasonable for vegetables and small fruit. For the garden season it would mean $32.50. Now, if one had a variety in one's garden he could easily use twice that amount. Then there are the flowers, and what a luxury it is to have flowers in the garden and cut flowers for the house. We must not forget the flower side pf the garden, if we cannot have any more than a row of poppies in the vegetable garden and a bunch of goldenglow or hollihocks in a corner. Can one guess the effect this will have on the child, who thus learns to love nature and sees beauties which to others are invisible! Then, when we have instilled into the child this love for beauty, all the ugly, vacant lots will soon be cared for. This subject has been treated mostly from the viewpoint of the child, for the older members of our state have always been taught to have a garden and keep close to nature and be self-supporting. In the first days of Utah, soon after Brigham Young arrived at Salt Lake, he plotted the land and allowed each head of family one and one-fourth acre and told him to provide for his family. Now, if the older people of today could but help start the next generation out in this line by setting the example and interesting the children, the young would do much more with the advice, sympathy and encouragement of their father and mother or older friends. LOGAN, UTAH. Thanksgiving. If life was what we made it, And brightest dreams came true, There'd be no sin nor sorrow, To burden me and you. But crosses come to every heart. And life will fade and die; Life's mission is for other things. To turn our thoughts on high. If you have worldly riches. Be thankful for your wealth. If you are free from sickness. Be thankful for your health. If you are down in poverty, 'Tis surely no disgrace; Be thankful, and with joy Life's toil and struggle face. While you are in life's morning. So young, so gay, and free, O turn your thoughts in gratitude For what God giveth thee; 'Twill make your pathway sweeter, 'Twill lead your hopes on high. The years will bring you greater joy. For gratitude can't die. And later, when life's scenes may change, When the bitter cup you drain. If all that made life bright seems gone. Your prayers are not in vain. If gratitude is in your heart. No sorrow can subdue That precious gift which God will lend To aid and comfort you. You'll find your sorrow you can bear. If you will thank your God Who sends forth rain and sunshine While you pass beneath His rod. Life's ills are Heaven's best blessings. They're sent in love to earth; Let's not forget who sent them. They'll prove what we are worth. BASALT, IDAHO.