[Vol25 | April 1938 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Hospitality]
Lindbergh flew over the home of Noel's mother in Oakley, Idaho, he dropped a greeting in honor of her illustrious son. Hospitality Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Department of Home Economics, University of Utah SPRINGTIME is here. The air has been thoroughly washed and is filled with that peculiar odor that comes only in the early spring.
Nature is giving the great out-of-doors its spring cleaning preparatory to putting on its fresh, green garb. Crocuses, daffodils, hyacinths and many other early spring flowers are adding variety of color and perfume. The inside of our homes are likewise undergoing a change, the grimy walls and soiled window hangings are giving way to clean walls and freshened hangings.
Rugs have been cleaned, floors, woodwork and furniture have been polished.
Everything is clean and orderly.
Instinctively at this time of year we think of our friends, and in our thoughts, crystallizes a desire to do something for them. The spirit of hospitality is in the air.
Hospitality is so much a part of human nature that it seems to be instinctive. It came very early into the life of mankind. The spirit of giving was its chief characteristic.
Throughout the ages it has mattered not whether it took the form of an elaborate, expensive feast given by tribal chiefs, the formal European dinner in honor of nobility, our elaborate occasional banquets such as characterize our Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners, or the sharing of whatever one has under the most humble conditions.
There is no doubt but that the spirit of hospitality, entering into the darkness and confusion of early times and continuing to the present, has made its contribution to the development of civilization. "THROUGH the generations of the development of hospitality it has had as its central theme —sharing food.
Later it came to include shelter.
Breaking bread together under the roof of. One's own home has long since been a symbol of friendship.
With the coming of Christ, great changes in the form of hospitality took place. Through His teachings of simplicity, kindliness and generosity, the extravagant, costly entertainments characteristic of the Greeks and Romans, gave way to the simple feast of the loaves and the fishes, the sharing of what-so-ever one had with those who had not. A splendid example of simple but wholesome hospitality has been set for us by the early Pilgrim Fathers, by the men and women who blazed the traiis on our many frontiers, by our pioneers who were held together by bonds of friendship and adversity. In modern life hospitality still plays an important role. It has assumed a variety of forms, but its chief characteristic is still closely connected with the sharing of food. The form of food service is immaterial, the spirit of giving is the main consideration. HE art of home-making has made wonderful progress in every detail. The home owner is taking greater pride in the kind of house, its setting, and its interior and exterior decorations. 256
Tandscape gardening and improvement of grounds has never before received so much consideration.
With hospitality in the private home has come pride in doing whatever is done, on a higher standard than ever before.
Since much of our home hospitality has assumed the form of luncheon or dinner service, the desire to do this well, to conform to conventions in so far as it is practical, has become very pronounced. In an effort to assist those who have this desire and who are not familiar with many of the accepted conventions the author has drawn heavily upon these rules of table service, particularly as compiled by society's outstanding authority, Emily Post.
Happily the modern trend is still further towards simplicity. The strictly formal dinner service has its place in society, but the occasions for such service are becoming fewer and fewer. The spirit of hospitality, the friendliness and charm may characterize the entertainment no matter how elaborate or how humble it may be.
Types of Dinner Service. THERE are three distinct classifications of table service which automatically place the dinner service in its proper place. First, the strictly formal or European service in which every detail is studied, from the selection of the guest list, to be sure that all will be congenial, through the thoughtful selection of a suitable menu, the faultless laying of the table, the skillful service of the food, and last but not least, a charming hostess who has perfect poise, tact, understanding and graceful manners. The second or semi-formal dinner, spoken of as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the American service, permits many modifications of the formal service. It may be very formal or it can be adapted to whatever is practical and sensible in terms of the family's particular circumstances. The third type of service or the family style is without the help of a waitress, where everything is served by the hostess at the table. A consideration of the formal service will give one a foundation upon which to build and to modify according to one's facilities.
While this service is not so generally used, it serves as a model in most details. Formal Dinner Service. The Guest List. HE responsibility of every hostess is to bring together only people who are congenial. The finest type of entertainment may be spoiled by discordant spirits. The number of guests should be limited to conveniences of space and equipment.
Custom no longer requires written dinner invitations, except the strictly formal ceremonious dinners.
