[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel Coral J. Black]

MOTHERS OF ISRAEL
By Coral J. Black
Mothers of Israel, come banish your grief,
Follow the reaper and bind up the sheaf ;
Succor the feeble, and nourish the poor.
Bright keep the beacon that marketh your door ;
Let the soul find its voice in a paean of praise
That you live and have part in such wonderful days.
Mothers of Israel, come summon your faith, i
Nor let fear encompass you 'round like a wraith ;
For the teachings of mothers and home shall abide
In the horror-filled trench, or the treacherous tide—
Your love for his buckler, your honor, his shield,
Shall bear him unscathed from the battle-scarred field.
Mothers of Israel, link arm within arm,
Oh let Love abide whilst we weather this storm ;
Let the weak be upborne by the strength of the strong.
Compassion our watch-word, and courage our song ;
And the brave love which reaches o'er tempest and foam,
May it bear its first fruit in the confines of home.
Mothers of Israel, cast out every fear.
For the time by the Prophets foretold, draweth near.
As the lightning's swift play, and the wind's sad retrain
Precedeth the fall of the life-giving rain ;
So the Earth must be cleansed in a deluge of flame
To prepare for His coming. All praise to His name !
Mothers of Israel, go forth in your strength.
For the day of your triumph is drawing at length ;
Fair Earth, torn and bleeding by man's ruthless heel.
The comfort and balm of your presence shall feel;
And the God of our Fathers, who watcheth above.
Will grant to you strength for your labor of love.
Mothers of Israel, He knoweth your cry,
'Tis the travail of Earth, but deliverance is nigh.
And the fair infant. Peace, shall live on through the years.
The fruit of your anguish, your suffering and tears.
And the grim god of War shall be banished again,
Scourged, trampled and scorned, by the Mothers of Men!
w^-V C-c O'^^-gJ*
EARNING THRIFT STAMPS
By Utah's Famous Cartoonist, Jack Sears.
THE
Relief Society Magazine
Vol. V. SEPTEMBER, 1918. . No. 9.
Women who have Lighted Pioneer
Home Fires.
MARY ELIZABETH GARDNER TURNER.
Bedford, Wyoming.
Mary Elizabeth, daughter of Archibald and Mary Ann Brad-
ford Gardner, was born February 1, 1850, at Mill Creek, Salt
Lake County, Utah. Her father being a great mill man, her
young days were spent partly in the canyons in summer and at
Mill Creek in the winter. Now the first thing that made a last-
ing impression on her was when they were preparing to move
South ; they let her help pack the flour in the boxes which her
father took with him and which he stored in what they called the
Flour House. They lived in this house until he could build a
better one. Sister Turner thinks they did it more to amuse her
than because of any good she could do, but she was proud to think
she could help get ready for the move. Another time she can
remember when she felt proud ; it was along about the time
when cloth could not be bought and their clothes were nearly
worn out, so her mother took her straw-tick — it was one of those
narrow-striped blue and white ones — and made three of the little
girls dresses. They braided wheat straw and made a hat out of
the braid and trimmed it with a band of green calico with little
yellow flowers on the calico. They also made what they called
pantalets : the tops were made of any kind of pieces they could
get, but the bottoms were made of the same green calico that the
hats were trimmed with. They came a little below the dresses to
keep the sun from browning their legs as they had neither stock-
ings nor shoes at that time. Their feet were washed nice and
clean and their best clothing put on, and hand in hand they would
start ofif for meeting. There was a saying that "Queen Victoria
never dressed better — all new clothes at one time."
This family did not stay long South before they moved
RRLIIiF SOCIIITY MAGAZINE
back. Her mother stopped at what is now known as Kiverton,
as the father had a hay-field there. The howling^ of the wolves
at nig-ht is well remembered by those early pioneers ; on one
occasion they came and stood with their front paws on the win-
dow sill and looked in at the family, but the mother made a big
fire in the fireplace, and told the children not to be afraid, as no
wild animal would come near a fire.
Her father was called as bishop of West Jordan, and the
family moved there and made that their home until the mother
died, January 27. 1864. November 25, 1865, Mary was married
to William Turner, son of James and Mary Ann Finch Turner.
They made their home on the east side of the river, which con-
sisted of a log room with a door and a twelve-light 10x12 window
in the west, and a six light of :". e same size glass in the east. For
Robert Gardner
Re^eccaOardner, MaryElizabethGardnerTurner
a cupboard they had two holes bored in the logs and pins put in,
with boards laid across. They did their cooking in the old-
fashioned fireplace. Their dishes consisted of a camp-kettle, a
bake-oven, frying-pan and a tin bucket for a teakettle. A table
was made of a large clothesbox put up on two pins in the wall
with a curtain around it, where different things were kept. A
bedstead was made by boring two holes in the logs, one in the
north' and one in the east side ; then taking a short piece of a pole
and boring two holes in it to match the others, then putting short
pieces of the pole in them and lacing it across and across with a
horsehair rope for springs (which they did themselves). How-
ever, they had a pretty decent set of dishes which her husband
brought with him the year before they were married, when he
went back after emigrants. Thev used benches for chairs and
irOMEX PIOXEHRS. 4^7
were happy in their love for one another, and they were a? well
fixed as any of their neighbors. While living on that side of the
river they had four children, but lost the first, a boy, when he was
two months old ; the second, when he was only four hours, and the
third when she was eighteen months. They began to think they
were not going to rear anv of their children. While still living
there her husband made another trip after emigrants. The next
child was born, February 19, 1870 [ the oldest living at the present
time), and when she was a little over a month old they moved
over to the west side of the river, about one mile
west and about a quarter of a mile south of the Jor-
dan ]\Iills, where thev took up some land. As they had started
to dig the first canal on that side there was nothing but sage
brush and no water fit to use nearer than the river, so they tried
to dig wells, but could get no water. While in that condition her
husband was called to go and help to haul the saw mill down to
]\Iount Trumbo, to saw lumber for the St. George Temple. He
was gone over six weeks, but S^ter Turner thought that long
enough as she had to carrv her baby, lead the cow and carry
water for house u?e. one pig and a dozen chickens, and there
were manv tramps roaming around as they were building the
railroad up to Bingham and that was not far from their home. As
they had no neighbors nearer than a mile, if she was not too tired
she would go to her father's at night to sleep, otherwise, she used
to take her bed out in the brush or in the grain after dark (as
they had seven acres of wheat that year), and n^.ake up her bed,
tpke her baby, go L«ackwards, straighten up the trail, and go to
-kep, as she knew if anybody came they would go to the house
and never think of looking there for anyone. One Sunday after
her husband returned home and while he was at meeting. Sister
Turner heard a noise, and thinking it was a terrible wind, she went
to the door, and to her great astonishment and dismav she saw- a
great swarm of grasshoppers, so thick that they darkened the sun
like a black cloud, and alight'id on the grain. Bv the time her
husband returned from mecang there was hardly enough grain
left to show there had ever been any. and there was no garden
left except where the onions were : there were holes left in the
ground, as the grass'.oppers had eaten all the onions but the little
roots.
So thev hooked ui> their cattle the next mornmg and went up
Mill Creek Canvon to her father's mill. Sister Turner cooked for
some of the men while her husband logged there till fall : then
thev went back home. Her husband was always a great man to
think of others. Thev lived between the two roads going to
Bingham, and if he knew of anyone being up there for wood and
did not get home before dark and a fog or storm came up. he
488 KliLIEF SOCUiTY M.IGAZJXE.
wuukl al\\a}-s liave the lit^lu in tlie window, so they could see it
if they got lost; and there has often been folks go to them and
say that they would surely have frozen to death if it had not been
for the light. At the time of the persecution. Sister Turner, with
others, used to visit the penitentiary about every two weeks to
visit the brethren ( who lived so far away that their own folks
could not get there), and take them such things as the law would
allow, and take their washing and do it for them. As they were
not allowed to see more than two at once, thev would stay until
their time was up. and would get the two l)rethren to give them
the names of two others in the same fix. They would do the
same for the next two, and so on. Sister Turner continued her
visits until they moved to Wyoming. Whew she came back the
next June she went to visit the brethren again. The man in the
office, where she went for the pass asked vvhom she wanted to see.
and she handed him a paper with six names on. and said she did
not care Nvhich two he gave her as she did not know either of
them. He said she must have come out of pity if she didn't know
any of them, and that she could see them all. That was the last
time she visited the penitentiarv.
Sister Turner ioinerl the T^elief Society when Sister Eliza R.
SnO'W and others organized the Relief Society in Jordan. She
was chosen president of the Thavn Relief Society when she went
to Wyoming and when that ward was divided was chosen pres-
ident of the Bedford Sccietv until the family joined the Grover
ward. She has since been chosen as one of the stake aids, which*
ln)<itinn she still holds.
S'ster Turner savs that her husband was never callel
on a mi-ssion to ])reach, but often was called to do work, and he
never refused or complained at what he was called to do or give.
He was called as a member of the first Hich Council of the Star
^'^allev Stake, and held that position until his death. October 17.
1O06.'
After the canal was finished in West Jorf^an, thev built a
lirick house of six rooms and lived there till the'r last chil 1 (the
tenth, a girl) was nearly ei^'ht years old. On account of the per-
secution her father cnu'd do nothing at home, so hearing they
needed a mill out in Star A'allev he went there and built both a
saw mill and a crrist mill. In August, 1890. they took a notion to
go out and see her father. Thev were gone about two weeks and
when thev got with'n a few miles of home her brother met them
and told them that the little girl had diphtheria. They got home in
time to see her alive, but she died that nirrht (August 28). Tt was
indeed a severe blow to the mother and father.
They fixed up their things and sold their home to President
George O. Cannon, and started for Star Valley in September,
WOMEN PIONEERS.
AW
where they arrived on the 25th. They settled on a nice stream
near the mouth of a canyon (Willow Creek). The family and a
young' man who was with them lived in a 10x12 tent and covered
wagon. While the men folks were cutting a road over a moun-
tain to get to Afton, where the saw mill was, in order to shorten
the distance instead of going around the regular road, the mother
with the younger boys and the girls went hunting a place to get
their winter wood, and were picking out a place to build their
house, and by night they had accomplished both. They got out
the log-s and with the assistance of a young man who came and
offered to help them, laid up the logs. Excepting for the one
day's help they did the work by themselves, but it seemed slow, as
the lumber had to be hauled ten miles over that rough road. Sis-
ter Turner assisted her husband while the rest were busy getting
wood and hauling hay, which had to be hauled eleven miles from
the north. In October of that year eleven inches of snow fell, and
those who had been there for some time said that it wouldn't go
off till spring. So to be sure of a home they went to Afton and
boug'ht a house and lot and also a cow. But in a few days the
snow was all gone, so they finished their house as they all went
to work with a will. One of the girls put on the roof and did other
work. Sister Turner made the door and window frames — one
panel door for the front and two batten doors for the back. In six
HOME .\ND SAW-MILL OF TURNER F.\MILV IN TURNERX'ILLE, WVO.
weeks they had their house finished and moved into it. They
also had a sheUer for their horses. They never used their home
in Afton, but brought the cow home and turned her out on the
Hat to feed, and one night Sister Turner went to get the cow to
milk her. Hearing something in the willows and thinking it was
the cow, she followed the sound, but could not see the cow, the
willows were so thick, but could hear its heavy tread and see the
grass straighten up ; so on she went till she came to a clearing,
when the animal raised up on its haunches and made a peculiar
sound, and to her surprise it was a large black bear. She was
not more than two rods from it, but never went any closer to it.
She went away and let the bear do the same. There were many
wild animals roaming the hills in those days.
When thev moved into their new home they needed furniture
and as there was no furniture store nearer than sixty miles and
to bring much that distance was impossible. Sister Turner herself
made a cupboard, a kitchen cabinet, bedstead, bookcase and other
things which the family are still using. She then made a spin-
ning wheel — head and all — on which her youngest daughters and
herself spun yarn for all their stockings besides enough to make
a piece of linsey forty yards in length. .\ dress made of the lin-
sey Sister Turner wore eleven winters, then gave it to an Indian
woman.
Sister Turner's oldest daughter came back to Utah to live.
After the family had been in Wyoming a few years the father
built a saw mill which he and the boys ran till his death. Then
the mother took charge of it and ^he and the boys have operated it
?very winter since. After the saw mill was built the father built
a new home, the picture of which is given here. According to
this sketch. Sister Turner has done all kinds of \vork. from
Imilding houses and running saw mills to doing her own house-
work. She has grubbed Ijrush. helped to ])low. fenced, watered,
hoed, cut the crops with the sickle and sc}1:hc. She is now sixty-
eight vears old and last year she helped to clear a little over half
an acre of new ground and put in potatoes. She then dug the post
holes and hel])ed to put the posts in and ]mt up the slabs around
it. She also dug a piece of land 148 feet long, one rod wide, and
put in her own garden. She does her own chores, feeds and tends
five head of stock, milks two cows, and tends to a span of mules
which she drives herself. She says that her father was a great
man for machinery and often said it was better to wear out than
to rust out. so Sister Turner is endeavoring not to let herself get
rusty, and with the amount of work she is doing at present, there
is little danger of such a thing happening to her. She feels that
she is greatlv blessed, as she has all of her family, excepting the
coldest dauirhter. around her — so near that she can make them
hear when she calls. She has seen them all married in the tem-
ples and has now forty grand children living and five dead, and
all that are old enough have been baptized. There is only one fam-
ily outside of their own who lives in their little valley, which has
been named after the family (Turnerville). The oldest son filled a
mission in the Southern States about twenty years ago. The
third son is on a mission now in West Virginia. The daughter
who lives there in that little valley is president of the Primary,
and two of Sister Turner's daughters-in-law are her counselors.
The other has charge of the Religion Class.
Sister Turner has done temple work for about 200 and still
hopes to do a great deal more, or pay for having it done.
A Short Biography of Mrs. Rhoda
Eldridge Merrill.
St. David, Arizona.
Belle Congress Wilds
In the year 1837, on the 20th day of April, there was born in
Brockletown, England, a little child who, at the early age of four
years, crossed, with her parents, the deep waters of the ocean
and settled in Nauvoo, Illinois.
In 1849 her parents immigrated to Salt Lake City, Utah, and
this child, then only twelve years of age, walked across deserts
and plains, a distance of a thousand miles.
When a young miss of seventeen she joined the Relief
Society and has been a co-worker with the .sisters wherever she
has been ever since, and although today she is nearly seventy-
nine years of age she loves to attend her meetings and do her
duty whenever and wherever she is called.
While living in Nauvoo, Illinois, she had the privilege of see-
ing the Prophet Joseph Smith and attending school with his
children. She helped take care of David, the youngest child of
the Prophet, who was born two months after the Prophet's death.
Her father rented a house from the Prophet's brother, thus
enabling them to form a most congenial acquaintance.
In the year 1878 this child, now a woman, once more was
called upon to go to other fields to labor and immigrated to the
San Pedro Vallev, Arizona, where she has become one of Ari-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
zona's pioneers, having lived there thirty-eight years, and where
she still resides.
She has performed a great labor in bringing souls into this
world. Not alone has she accomplished the highest work God
ordained women to do — that of bringing her own children to
earth — but she has helped other mothers, having assisted three
hundred other

mothers in midwifery, which she understood and practiced. The Lord having blessed her, she always met with success at such times, never having lost either a mother or a child. May God's richest blessings be with her whom we love and reverence, and may He give her health and strength to be with us yet for many a year, but, when at last God sees fit to call her to a higher sphere, may her crown be indeed one of glory for the good and noble acts she has done whilst here on earth and may God say to her: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." St. David, Arizona RHODA ELDREDGE MERRILL AND TWO SISTERS.