the General Board of Relief Society. WANTED: 25,000 WOMEN TO ENROLL IN THE UNITED STATES STUDENT NURSE RESERVE. The Government is calling 25,000 young women to join the United States Student Nurse Reserve and hold themselves in readiness to train for service as nurses. The war is creating an unprecedented demand for trained nurses. Only those who have taken the full training course are eligible for service with our forces overseas. These nurses are being drawn largely from our hospitals at home. Their places must be filled by student nurses enrolled for the full training course of from two to three years. Every young woman who enrolls in the United States Student Nurse Reserve is releasing a nurse for service at the front and swelling the home army which we must rely on to act as our second line of hospital defense. Upon the health of the American people will depend the spirit of their fighting forces. PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 521 Age.  The call is for women between the ages of nineteen and thirty-five. Qualifications.  Intelligent, responsible women of good education and sound health are wanted  the pick of the country. A college education is a valuable asset, and many hospitals will give credit for it. Credit will also be given for a special scientific equipment or for preliminary training in nursing, such as that given in special courses now being conducted by various colleges and schools. Some schools, on the other hand, do not even require a full high-school education. Enrollment.  Women will be given an opportunity to enroll in the United States Students Nurse Reserve in any one of three ways: (1) As engaging to hold themselves in readiness until April 1, 1919, to accept assignments to nurses' training schools. These women will be sent to the schools as fast as vacancies occur. Those of superior qualifications will be given preference, and it is, of course, possible that not everyone who enrolls will be accepted. (2) As desiring to become candidates for the Army N