[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Home | Title: Entertainments Home Entertainments for September Morag]

tunity to honor the parents of the largest family in your community. The "Patriotic Department" can be illustrated with a suitable tableau, and the entertainment for a successful "home evening" can represent suggestions division. Let some good reader give the editorial and current events, and a group of workers could demonstrate the various lessons and activities. Close with invitation to join the Society and subscribe for its Magazine. A small orchestra would add to the success of the social, or the ward organist could "play" the various pictures, and be sure and include some rousing musical numbers and community songs. For a delightful out of doors frolic, a watermelon party is suggested. If the object is to make money, an admission fee of 25c may be charged. The invitation: "A monster melon am going to be opened at (place), on Sept. de at 8 o'clock. Come and eat all you can hold and enjoy yourself. Only twenty-five cents to get in." A pleasant plan for the entertainment would be: Guests received and feasted with melon, games and athletic sports. Small green melons afford a funny race game where the fruit is pushed over the course with the toe of one's shoe. Award a ripe melon for prize. Conclude with a program of old Southern melodies or "darkey" songs, accompanied by mandolins and banjos. A "peach" party might prove popular, and peaches and cream, peach pie and shortcake with ice cream, lemonade or grape, could be served and sold. STAKE OFFICERS' PARTY. A very unique stake officers' party was recently held in one of the nearby stakes, where the program was so different, and the fun so genuine. The first half hour was spent in social converse, this was followed by a singing contest, participated in by the various bishoprics of the stake. Each group chose their own selection and the honor fell to a group who sang a funny nursery rhyme. Next a tug of war between presidencies of Seventies, and Elders quorums. A comical spelling bee followed between the members of the High Council and the ward clerks. Next a dancing contest, where the Young Men's Mutual officers paired off with the Relief Society Board, Patriarchs with Primary, Religion Class with Y. L. M. I. A.  this event, a prize step-dance, being won by a Patriarch of the old school. A suit case race between the stake presidency and their wives caused much fun. Instrumental and vocal music was interspersed between the various "stunts," and the punch bowl was very heavily patronized. The social concluded with dancing.
HOME ENTERTAINMENTS FOR SEPTEMBER. 513 HOME EVENING EXERCISE Book of Mormon Alphabet. A was a martyr for God and the truth. B was a prophet-king, righteous from youth. C was a Jaredite king left alone. D was a land of which little is known. E, while around him his people were killed, lived to see all his prophecies fulfilled. F, of all the flowers that bloomed 'neath the sun but one is mentioned, find out which one. G was a robber band wicked and vile. H was a builder whose ships reached far isle. I was an Ephraimite, from land far away. J was so faithful, the waves did obey. K was an anti-Christ seeking a sign. L was an Israelite patriarch benign. M gave a nickname to people of God. N in a vision saw the "Iron Rod." O righteous king with thirty-one offspring. P was chief judge when the Nephites were warring. Q was a queen converted by dream. R was a hill where records were seen, his people all murdered. S lost his head. T mighty general the Lamanites dread. U was a Bible king known by Isaiah. Z mighty city burned up with fire. BIBLE ALPHABET A was a traitor hung by the hair. B was a folly built high in the air. C was a mountain overlooking the sea. D was a nurse buried under a tree. E was a first born, bad from his youth. F was a ruler who trembled at truth. G was an angel sent with good word. H faithful mother, gave her son to the Lord. I was a new name received at the ford. J was a shepherd in Arabian land. K was a place near a desert of sand. L was a pauper begging his bread. M was an idol, object of dread. N was an architect ages ago. O was a rampart to keep out the foe. P was an isle, where a saint looked above. 
 Q was a Christian saluted in love. R was obscure yet a mother of kings. S was a Danite who did wondrous things. T was a city that had a strong hold. U was a country productive of gold. V was a queen whom a king set aside. W was a widow whose cruise was supplied. Z was a place where a man wished to hide. ANSWERS TO BOOK OF MORMON ALPHABET Abinadi, Benjamin, Coriantumr, Desolation, Ether, Flower (Lily), Gadianton, Hagoth, Ishmael, Jacob, Korihor, Lehi, Mormon, Nephi. Orihah, Pahoran, Queen of Lamoni, Ramah, Shiz, Teancum, Uzziah, Zarahemla. ANSWERS TO BIBLE ALPHABET Absalom, Babel, Carmel, Deborah, Esau, Felix, Gabriel, Hannah, Israel, Jethro, Kadesh-barnea, Lazarus, Moloch, Noah, Ophel. Patmos, Quartus, Ruth, Samson, Tyre, Uphaz, Vashti, Widow of Zarephath, Zoar. Find the chapter and verse for each. THE RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL. The Relief Society School for Nursing will open as usual in September. The course will consist of general instruction in nursing, and will include in addition practical demonstrations in nursing, and lectures on Invalid Cooking, First Aid, Sterilization, Drugs and Solutions, Contagious Diseases, Hydrotherapy, Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. The lectures will be given by specialists. Circulars containing information will be sent to Relief Society presidents. For further information address Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.