[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON II Work and Business]

LESSON II.

Work and Business.

SECOND WEEK IN FEBRUARY.

LESSON III.

Genealogy and Literature.

THIRD WEEK IN FEBRUARY.

RACIAL HISTORY.

HAM. HIS DESCENDANTS AND TRIBES.

The fifth chapter of Genesis gives us the genealogy of Adam through Cain. The descendants of Cain through one son are carried down six generations as will be there seen. After giving the names of Lamech's children, nothing further is said concerning them. It is interesting to know that the author of Genesis (Moses) speaks of the fact that the first city was built by Cain and named for his son Enoch; that Cain's son Jabal was the first Nomad herdsman; that Jubal, Jabal's brother, was the inventor of musical instruments both stringed and wind; and that Tubal Cain was the first artificer in brass and metals. Lamech's apostrophe to his wives is the earliest example of poetry extant. All of these facts warrant us in assuming that there was a high state of civilization developed in ante-diluvian times, through the descendants of Cain, and, similar to add, of the arts named, those of literature, music and workers in metals, belonged particularly to the descendants of the rebel Cain. We are told that Cain's blood was taken into the Ark through the wife of Ham. 2448-2350 B. C., when the Flood occurred, according to the Biblical chronology.

Ham's three sons are credited with the fatherhood of the races which inhabited parts of Asia, and nearly all of Africa. We invite a study of Bible history, of Josephus and of any good general history material here given of the so-called Hamitic races. Especially do we recommend Dr. Smith's Old Testament History.

Ancient Secular History. When history first open its doors to us outside of the Bible pages we are faced by the chronological conjecture of modern excavators in Egypt, Babylonia and Assyria. The conclusions of these scientists need not alarm us or cause a weakening of our faith, for while they generally unite in announcing a civilization thousands of years before the accepted time of Adam's birth upon the earth, we may comfort ourselves with the reflection that these same scientists have long refused to accept any Scriptural historical facts until forced to do so in recent times by discoveries in ancient remains. Furthermore, chronology is a study of modern times. The ancient and medieval peoples gave little attention to it. The fragmentary records of ancient times do not enable historians of our time to distinguish contemporary dynasties clearly from consecutive dynasties of kings. Excavations of ancient cities are constantly bringing this condition to light. And hence the chronology of the world is ever drawing nearer that of the Bible. Mind you, we refer to historical data and not to the conjectures and theories of men. They generally neglect, too, this sacred historical truth that besides God's being the Father of Adam, He was also his teacher in such things as religion and language. As Enoch wrote "a book of remembrance, we have written among us, according to the pattern given, by the finger of God, and it is given in our language" (See Pearl of Great Price). Therefore, our students will accept the data concerning Egypt, Babylon and Assyria with whatsoever mental reservations may be necessary. In this lesson we will consider the ancient descendants of Ham, the second son of Noah.

The Dark Continent. It is generally understood that the continent of Africa was settled by the descendants of Ham, yet this statement requires modification, for there were both Semites and descendants of Japheth who settled in the northern part of Africa and who are referred to under their tribal chapters.

The history of ancient Africa is the history of the few countries settled along its northern shores, for there was little known of the interior of Africa until the last century, with the exception of Abyssinia which lies at the southern end of the Red Sea.

With recent discoveries by travelers and students, the various negro tribes inhabiting darkest Africa have been divided and again subdivided. Among the black races are the Pygmy tribes in central Africa, the Congos, the Bantus, with the Bushmen and Hottentots. There is a considerable difference between this vast race of people, to those who make a study of ethnology. The various languages and the somewhat differing physical conformation of the black peoples is most interesting, if one has the desire to follow it up. The population of Africa at the present day consists of the following elements: the Bushmen, a race of short, yellowish brown nomad hunters. With them may be classed provisionally, the Hottentots, an agricultural people of medium stature and yellowish brown complexion. The Hottentots who live in what is now Cape Colony are a blend of the Bushmen and