Summer Vacations for Children By Lydia D. Alder
Summer vacations for children was an innovation in the work of the Welfare Department of the Relief Society. It was a big task, too. But the need justified the undertaking. In undesirable districts were children undernourished, ailing, restless from the heat. In homes of poverty were little ones languishing for the crisp and nourishing vegetables growing abundantly on farms and in gardens not very far away. There was hope for strength and vigor and happiness in the thought of a period of change and recuperation for this class of "kiddies." If only they might spend a fortnight where the out-of-doors is big enough for real play, and meals are served to suit the growing appetites!
After much deliberation, the appeal was made. The response was whole-hearted and big, as the response always is when helpless childhood calls. The announcement was made in the April conference?that there was a certain group of malnourished children who needed a vacation in the country. Soon letters began to come in from the various stakes offering accommodations for from two weeks' to a month's time, and in some instances for the whole summer; and the office force began immediately to prepare lists of those who would be most benefitted by fresh air and country food.
Each family visitor thought the children she knew, needed it more than the others. Competition was very keen. Surely not one of the little ones must be overlooked. After being assured of enough places for the children, the problem of finance was considered. Railroad fare for all the children was no small item. Also a great number of those who should be sent were destitute of clothing; and unless they could be clothed it would be impossible for them to go.
After giving the subject much thought, it was decided to call upon some of Salt Lake's prominent business people for contributions. Most generously they responded. Ample means for transportation and the needed clothing were provided. The railroads allowed rates and so gave a big boost to the enterprise.
In order that the children would not take any infectious diseases into the homes where they were to be guests, medical examinations were necessary. The doctors cooperated in this matter and each of the children had throat, heart, lungs, etc., gone over thoroughly. The malnourished children were given first place. After this group was completed, those having little opportunity for recreation, those whose mothers were forced to be away from


home a good deal were given next chance. One little lad who lives with his grandmother was thought particularly in need of the outing, and the grandmother in need of rest.
When a visit was made to the house to see if arrangements could be made for the boy to go, the grandmother gave her consent; but as the visitor was leaving she said wistfully, "You know, I have never been on a vacation in my life." The heart of the visitor was touched and she insisted grandmother must go on a vacation, too. She was sent to some friends in a town where she had spent her girlhood. There, for a period of fourteen days she visited and rested, and renewed her friendships, and lived again the joy of early days. One other adult was sent; a woman whose body was frail and weak. Her doctor had recommended a month in some quiet town where she would have plenty of nourishing food. She, too, was greatly benefitted by her rest. After the numerous calls from stake presidents, ward presidents, and individuals were received, the children were divided into groups; the oldest child in the group was placed in charge. They were escorted to the train by visitors from the Relief Society office and a telegram was sent to the stake president advising her of the time of the children's arrival. The president was left to see that the children should reach the homes of the people who had offered to take them. There were surprisingly few difficulties. A few lost pennies, a misplaced lunch box, perhaps the least little bit of homesickness, that was all. Nothing of a serious nature. The children who went ranged in age from three to fourteen years. The little three year old was the most plucky of the crowd. The people with whom she stayed fell in love with her and were loath to part with her when the time arrived. She was particularly interested in the train ride, since she had not been on a train before. She was not homesick. She did not cry for her mother. She was accustomed to being in a day nursery, while her mother' was employed, and this was better than the best day nursery in the world. She arrived home bubbling over with her new experiences and all decked out in new clothes given by the kind friends with whom she stayed. The experience of these youngsters will never be forgotten. To most of them it was the first glimpse of real life. To play in shady orchards; to wade in babbling brooks; to hunt bird nests, climb trees, and go trout fishing, were things they knew only from story books. Now they were real. Now they could watch the farmers get the sweet milk from "Old Boss." Perhaps they got some warm in a bright tin cup. Now they could go with little friends to gather the eggs that would be eaten for breakfast in the morning. And there was the garden, with turnips and carrots SUMMER VACATION FOR CHILDREN 81 and peas?"more than they can eat" as one younster graphically expressed it. A dozen stakes offered to take children, but only the offers of the first seven, which came early, could be accepted. One of the most interesting groups was the one sent to Minidoka stake. There were twenty-nine children in this group?twenty-nine scrawny, big-eyed kiddies?timid and bold, joyous and sad, loved and neglected. Because of the long distance they traveled it was deemed advisable to send with them one of the regular workers from the Welfare Department. When they were gathered at the Relief Society office, ready to leave, it was declared that such a happy group of children had never been seen before. Some had their clothes wrapped up in queer little bundles which they hugged closely, and some dragged suitcases too big for them to carry. All were eager to be off. The boys were talking about the ride on the train, the girls telling one another how their mother had to hurry to get them off. Most of them had never been on a train before, and to think of riding all night was quite unheard of! The following isa list of the stakes and the number of children they were able to accommodate: Minidoka 29; Oquirrh 10; Alpine 10; Box Elder 10; South Sevier 2; Yellowstone 2; Hyrum 1; making a total of 64 children who will remember the summer as one of the happiest in their lives. Many other stakes offered accommodations but it was not 'possible to accept all of the invitations, because some of them came too late in the season and the transportation fund was not adequate to send more than 64. The Welfare Department would like to make vacations for children an annual event. Since it was so successful this year, there seems to be no reason why it should not be adopted as a permanent summer activity. The people who so generously responded to this need of some of the "Little Ones," may never know the extent of the blessing they thus bestowed. If to one little waif there was opened a broader vision of life; if in the heart of one there was planted seeds of love and kindness from the peace of the home where entertainment was given; if one child undernourished and weak was started on the road to health and vigor?then there is no means of comparison between the good that may result and the effort that was made. The Relief Society is grateful to the philanthropic men and women who helped to put over the plan. If these could have heard the returning crowds in noisy discussion on the homeward trip, they would not grudge their contribution to the cause. "Gosh, it was fun to pick eggs," said one, and another answered, "But not half as much fun as watching the man grind milk."