EDITORIAL 39 dramatic act, to serve humanity in some prosaic way, does not always receive the enthusiastic response that a stirring challenge receives. But, by the continuous performance of certain commonplace acts, humanity is served just as truly as by. One dramatic self-sacrificing incident. Anyone who earnestly endeavors to better the conditions of a community, and who is sincerely solicitous of the welfare of his fellow-man, is as deserving of the plaudits of the world as is the hero of a battle. Both give their lives in the service of God and his children. There are opportunities to render humble service in almost any walk of life. There are, among us, certain unpretentious characters who, in their commonplace activities, are real benefactors of humanity. There is the doctor who, without thought of material recompense, can be relied upon to answer the call of the suffering, even though it means a long, difficult trip in the dead of night. There is the cooperative business man who has a real concern for the health, living conditions, and welfare of his employees. There is the school man who devotes his years in searching for truth, and in teaching the youth of his time, often scorning more lucrative positions. There is the lawyer who devotes his time to the administration of justice, and who is willing to renounce a remunerative case, in order to defend the cause of the exploited and oppressed. A beautiful type of service is rendered by fathers and mothers who have an infinite capacity to subordinate self and to work for the advancement of their families. In our Church there are hundreds of active members who give hours of willing, efficient, volunteer service, in conducting the work of the various organizations. There is the missionary who sacrifices personal desires and plans to serve in the cause of righteousness. There is the bishop whose time and energy are whole-heartedly given to the members of his ward, in guiding and directing both their spiritual and temporal affairs. There. Is the ward Relief Society president, who stands ever ready to assist her bishop in caring for the sick, visiting the distressed, and planning for the welfare of the community.  The giving of such service, undramatic, prosaic, and even irksome, often requires a braver heart and a more courageous spirit than does the service required in -a crisis. It is often a temptation to abandon the constant, unrecognized toil in the sphere of the commonplace, for the more alluring. Worldly activities. But he who is in earnest in his desire to serve humanity seeks to develop a stalwart spirit, a dauntless courage, and a strong faith, so that he may continue faithfully in his humble and unhonored labors.. At the beginning of the new year when we review the 
 events of the past months and contemplate the possibilities of the new year, it is especially fitting that we renew our faith in the gospel of service and resolve to remain steadfast in the face of rigorous and demanding duty. If we meet each day of the years before us with courage and patience and faith, we can, as we advance in years, look back on our days of usefulness with no regrets and no misgivings. In the evening of our lives, when in retrospect we view the deeds of our active years, can we survey the past with a serene countenance and a sanguine spirit? Will we be able to say, I answered the call of service however I could? I gave myself willingly to the cause of the Master?to loving service and brave living? I prayed and labored, humbly and hopefully, trusting that my reward would be, in this world, the peace of duty well performed and, in the eternal life to come, a place in the heavenly kingdom? W. C. T. U. ADOPTS WORLD PROGRAM The World's Women's Christian Temperance Union convention, held in November, at Philadelphia, adopted a three-year program to carry out the organization's ideals. The resolutions called for work toward abolition of the liquor trade in every land, for the teaching of scientific temperance to school children of all nations, a campaign to urge pledge-signing in all classes of society and encouragement of the compilation and study of scientific facts that relate to the welfare of the race. The W. C. T. U. Pledged itself, through international cooperation, to work for the establishment of world peace. A resolution was adopted urging a single standard of personal purity for men and women, on the ground that the strength of a nation lies in the moral integrity of its people. The Union also pledged itself to continue the work for the political equality of women in countries that have not yet granted. Them suffrage. In the countries where women have the vote it was decided to work out programs to promote the education for citizenship in the affairs of government. In addition, a resolution was adopted urging all the nations of the world to join an international campaign for suppression of liquor sales on shipboard, and copies of the W. C. T. U. Action will be sent to-heads of governments throughout the globe with the request that they place themselves on record for or against "bone dry oceans." Guide Lessons for March LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) GUARDIAN AND MINISTERING ANGELS The Necessity for Guardian Angels. When Satan was banished from heaven he made his way to the earth with his hosts of banished spirits. He evidently knew that none of the valiant spirits from heaven would have any inclination for any earthly existence if the privilege of being "added upon" or receiving bodies could not be obtained. Two of Lucifer's great objectives were the prevention of mortal life and the destruction of that life. To accomplish the first he attempted to have Adam and Eve perpetually separated, and to accomplish the second he has sought by disease, individual strife, and the destruction of war to depopulate the earth. Satan has no respectful regard for God's authority but he stands in fearful and submissive awe of the power that Divinity has for the enforcement of authority. The evil one has reason to know what it means to come in conflict with the angels. See Revelation 12:7-10. The prince of darkness is held in check by the knowledge that the same authority and power which cast one of his spirits out of man and permitted the evil spirits to possess the bodies of swine could banish him and all his hosts from the face of the earth. See Mark 5:1-16. If angels were needed as a power to preserve heaven from the grasps of Satan, how could the children of our Father be expected to survive on earth among the condemned without the protective presence of messengers from on high? Group Guardiansmip. The government of God provides for the meeting of emergencies by having in readiness or subject to call, valiant spirits for the defense of heaven's cause?beings trained in obedience through the law of love and loyalty; beings in whose presence wickedness quails and the emissaries of unrighteousness grow weak. These defenders of righteousness may not be visible, though 
 they be present on earth in multitudes and are part of heaven's power. See II Kings 6:15, 17; Matthew 26:53. Individual Guardianship. Among the duties of guardian angels are private revelation, protection,-comfort, admonition, and a watchfulness of the intentions and actions of enemies. The Angel Moroni, the guardian of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, revealed the existence and place of deposit to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Angel Gabriel revealed to her husband the foreordained motherhood of Elizabeth, (see Luke 1:11-20) and this same angel announced to Mary her marvelous mission. See Luke 1:26-36. Some angel with especial interest in the virgin mother's welfare, and undoubtedly by appointment, saved Mary from being misunderstood by her espoused husband, who stood between her and the contumely of society in obedience to Divine instruction. See Matt. 1:18-20. The guardian angel of Jesus was on the alert at the councils of the murderous Herod, read his thoughts, and reported his intentions to the foster father of the Babe of Bethlehem. See Matt. 2:1-14. Satan used his scriptural knowledge of the doctrine of guardian angels in an attempt to ensnare the Savior. See Luke 4:10, and Psalms 91:11. After the temptation was over, angels "ministered unto him." See Matt. 4:11. As to whether these angels witnessed the "temptation" contest as did the friends and the Father of the Redeemer witness the crime of all crimes at Calvary, we do not know, but this we know, that these angels brought the comfort needed by one who had fasted, fought and won. The Value of the Guardian-Angel Idea. A prominent physician in discussing religion made this remark, "I am glad my parents taught me the doctrine of guardian angels; it steadied my early life over many a chasm of temptation. The very idea itself is a protection to youth. "I need no argument to prove to me that to live in thought only with pure, powerful protectors will make of one something more than it is possible to be without the thought." But guardian angels are something more than imaginations growing out of beliefs. They are real, tangible entities whose influence may be felt and whose words may be heard and whose power may be exercised within the field of their appointment.