Questing Lights

Belle Watson Anderson

At last came the click of the old hedge gate, the familiar creak of its rusty hinges, and Jane knew her waiting was at an end.
Andrew Ramsay, her fiancé, was not one minute late, yet it had seemed to her that she had waited forever for his coming tonight. She opened the front door and saw him leaning against the luxuriant hedge that grew in front of the Allison home.

The moon was resplendent, silvering the beautiful village of King's Kettle.
Andrew called excitedly to Jane, "What a wonderful picture to carry with me to America!"
"Oh, Andrew, are you sure that you know what you are doing? Somehow I just can't feel the same way about it all that you do. So many things can happen over which we have no control—sickness, accidents, and even death."

Andrew turned anxiously to Jane. Her worry and fear were astounding to him.
She went on, "Perhaps I'm disappointing you when I tell you that I honestly wish things were just as they were before you joined the Church and made up your mind to go to Utah." Her face became serious—far too serious.

They stood silent for a moment, watching the moon sail in and out among the white clouds, like a silver shuttle weaving its way across the heavens.
"Scotland is a sweet country," she began speaking again, "good enough for any man's country. I have heard you say so many times yourself, and yet you are leaving it all."
Andrew turned and studied Jane for a few moments, the childhood sweetheart he had loved for so many years.
"Jane, I am sure you do not want me to stay on in Scotland, when the new world offers all the things I want from life—religion, security, a home of my own. I can never have those things here. Can't you understand, dear?"
"But Scotland would give you to me, Andrew," she answered wistfully. "That is all that matters, my darling."
"The new country will unite us, Jane." Andrew was trying hard to explain. "It won't be long before I can send for you, and then we will always be together in our new home."

Jane sighed a long, deep sigh.
Andrew turned and spoke tenderly. "Don't, Jane. No man is worthy of such devotion, but if a man can be, I am going to be that man."
Reassured, Jane looked up and smiled, sunshine bursting through a drift of clouds. She believed him. She had proved him so many times before.

"Come with me to tell your parents goodbye, before we attend the farewell party. I must get home early tonight to spend some time with mother, and I'll need to rise early if I get the coach in Dumferline tomorrow." 
A large crowd of friends, neighbors, and relatives were at the Rumgay home the next morning to wish Andrew good luck on his journey. Andrew was busy. He had borrowed a wheelbarrow from the foreman of the mine, where he had been working as cage-hoister. He was packing all of his clothing and books into a large brown kist that had belonged to his father. This was to be placed into the barrow, with his other belongings, and pushed to Dumfriesshire. Andrew loved books. Since he began working, every two pence that could be spared from his pay envelope had gone for the purchase of books. Jane had made several fruitcakes and some shortbread, and was waiting her chance to slip them into the kist unnoticed. Each member of the family came with a gift, something Andrew could use on the way, although it perhaps had cost only a halfpenny. His mother's gift was precious and a complete surprise to her boy. She had taken the fleece of a sheep, washed and carded the wool, and then spun the wool into soft yarn. With this she had knit him under-wear, a sweater, a tam, gloves, and a muffler. Andrew was deeply touched. He thought of Joseph's coat of many colors and knew now just how Joseph must have appreciated it. Taking his mother in his arms, he said, "Such a mother! And these hands! No others are as beautiful. I remember the day, almost the very hour, that every wrinkle was worn and beaten into them. Someday I hope to soften and adorn them, dear." He kissed them tenderly.

 

"It isn't easy to leave my loved ones, but while I'm away the weeans will work just a little harder, and be just a little kinder because I'm not here."
"I am sure they will," answered Mrs. Rumgay, drying the fast-falling tears on the hem of her apron.
"Don't fret about us, Andrew. We will get along grand while we are apart."

Andrew patted her stooped shoulders, lovingly looked at her, then turned back to his work.

Janet Rumgay was quite through with emotional demonstrations. She had patiently endured so many sorrows and hard trials since her husband had died. And there was no other way. Andrew had gone over it with her many times, had fasted and prayed about it, and always received the same answer. He did not wish to be selfish, but it was the one way out for them all. They would soon be together in a new land of opportunity.

Andrew was packed and ready. Jane could see something must be done about the next few minutes. She spoke to Mary, and then pushed the wheelbarrow in through the front door.
"Your coach is waiting, Sir. Now, we will bring in the horses."
Mary, Andrew's sister, walked around and stood by one of the handles. Jane took her place by the other. Andrew's uncles placed his luggage into the barrow while he began bidding all his loved ones goodbye.

"Now Pete and Bally, get up," Jane shouted.
The girls picked up the barrow, pushed it down the stone walk, through the gate, and into the long, QUESTING LIGHTS country lane that would lead them onto the highway to Dumfriesshire. Trying to remember all the loving admonitions and messages he had just heard, Andrew went running down the lane calling to the girls to wait for him.
When he did catch up with them they refused to turn the barrow over to him. They walked the old road together, the road where they had spent so many happy childhood hours and, since they grew older, had often strolled together on moonlit nights, passing to and from church at Dumfriesshire.

Young Rumgay was quite the Beau Brummel this morning, walking along fully a head taller than his companions. Jane and Mary could not keep their eyes away from him, he was so brave in his new black suit, white shirt, and black tie. He wore his mother's gift—the tam. The girls were breaking a tradition in wearing their Sunday clothes today.

Andrew had noticed it and appreciated the honor. Maybe his going away really meant a great deal to them. Mary looked up at Andrew and gave a quick roguish giggle. "When I am old and gray and have my grandchildren sitting around me, I shall tell them about today." Looking over at her brother, she added, "I shall tell them that when I was seventeen I walked to Dumferline with their Uncle Andrew, who is now a millionaire in America, and I wore my Sunday clothes. I can see them now, the darlings, inconceivably shocked, and...." "Hold on there, Mary," Andrew put in, "tell them I am a faithful Latter-day Saint instead of a millionaire. You've missed the purpose of my going away, my dear." "As you wish, my brother, but they shall be shocked." Fourteen miles walking and pushing a wheelbarrow is a trying experience, but no complaints were registered, for parting was at the end of the road. Jane was fine in her new Paisley cashmere, a clear tan background, colored with every delicate tint of spring. Mary's dress was a winecolored alpaca, with fitted basque, circular skirt, and creamy lace collar and cuffs. Both girls wore poke bonnets with ribbon ties. Jane's golden curls were forcing their way out of every curve and ripple of her bonnet.

* * *

Al Dumferline, they were met at the station by a young elder, Hugh Shand, who had been doing home missionary work with Andrew for two years. Now they were emigrating together. Andrew and Jane, with only a little time remaining, left the party and walked down one of the city's most beautiful flagged streets, to an old monastery. "Scotland's Westminster," drew quietly remarked. "Yes," returned Jane, "so many of the great people of Scotland lie buried here, among them Saint Margaret and Malcolm Canmore. Faithful in life—faithful in death." "These old walls could tell the real romances of Scotland, if they could only speak," Andrew responded. "They were always true and loyal to each other," Jane added. "That seems to be a virtue of the Scotch." She turned to Andrew wistfully. 238 "We will be just as true, won't we?" "We will'? Andrew assured her, taking her arm. Jane led Andrew to a stone bench near the old, time-worn wall. "I must tell you of a dream I had last night. Oh, I know you do not believe in dreams, and do not want to hear me tell them, but this one has kept me worried all day. I dreamed that you and I were in a deep fog, and we could not find one another. I could hear you calling me, and I think you could hear me calling you, but you were always beyond me. I never found you." "The dream was caused by your worry at my going away. Soon, when I have gone, you will get over fretting and the fog will clear away." He looked at his watch. It was time they were getting back to the station. Taking Jane's hand, he began running and pulling her after him. They were children again, as they had been in old King's Kettle lane, they reached the station, the coach came to a stop. Andrew caught Jane in his arms and whispered, "The dearest and most precious sweetheart that a man ever loved, and you will be mine through all eternity." He kissed her tenderly, and jumped on the moving coach. Andrew slumped into the first seat he reached. Hugh joined him. Neither spoke. Andrew had known it would be hard to part from Jane, but how hard he had never guessed. He turned and looked out of the window, watched one field and another mile pass by like a dream in a strange panorama. He studied the people about him, strained, work-hardened faces, men, women, and children crowded into the cheap compartment. He spoke to Hugh, "We little know what lies before us, but all the joy and sweetness of life have been worked out of these good people, the best that live on the earth." After awhile Hugh spoke, "Say, fellow, come out of it and listen to what I have to say." He shook Andrew and began laughing at the mood they found themselves in. "Say, let's forget it. Father was telling me last night of another Andrew who left Dumferline, sometime ago." "Who was it?" Andrew began showing some interest. "Did he belong to the Church?" "No. His name was Andrew Carnegie. He left and went to America to make money. He was doing all right here, but he could make it faster over there. Lots of men make fortunes over there." Both boys became silent for a time. Andrew spoke first. "My fortune, I hope, will be in spiritual values. I shall be content to live with the people of God, own my own home, and have enough to make my loved ones secure." "That's the way I feel, Rumgay." "It will be wonderful to be with those who love the things that I love, whose ideals and principles are those I have learned are true. They will by my people and my fortune." They traveled mile after mile, station after station, city after city, until they came to Liverpool. "Change cars for America," Hugh shouted, picking up his suitcase. "Yes," returned Andrew with enthusiasm, "Zion, we are coming!" (To be continued)