Ramona W. Cannon

'THE eight women elected this year to the Salt Lake City Council of Women's Hall of Fame are: Mrs. Anna Margaret Belliss, charter president of the council, inaugurator of the city clean-up campaign, advocate of re-forestation of landscape beauty centers. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells, philanthropist. General President of the L.D.S. Primary organization, a sponsor of the Primary Children's Hospital. Miss Rose Anna Jones, outstanding educator, founder of the nursery school movement in Utah, social worker. Mrs. Cornelia S. Lund, worker in Parent-Teacher Associations for twenty-five years, leader in Salt Lake City Women's Chamber of Commerce fight for smoke abatement. Mrs. Ella Napier Paul, organizer of youth groups to combat juvenile delinquency. Brownie Scouts worker. Miss Florence E. Ware, outstanding artist, consultant in vocational guidance, instructor in children's activities, director in Utah's Centennial art exhibits. Mrs. Grace Dorius Wahlquist, state director of Minute Women during World War II, chairman of Centennial Committee of the Council of Women. Mrs. Ruby Hazlet Wiesley, director of the women's division of Utah war bond sales committee, permanent chairman of the council-sponsored international peace garden.

Elections are held every five years; service to the community is the basis of choice.

MRS. AGNES OLSEN THOMAS, for nearly twenty-six years leader of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society chorus, and member of the Tabernacle choir for more than fifty years, passed away January 9. She was almost ninety-one years of age. Her contributions to the musical culture of Utah were invaluable. Although she was the mother of nine children, she still found time to sing at countless funerals—without recompense, and was frequently contralto soloist with the Tabernacle choir. In her native Christiania, now Oslo, Norway, she sang (at a Latter-day Saints Church concert) "Solveig's Song" from the Peer Gynt suite by Grieg. This was the song's first public rendition. The choir leader was a member of the Christiania orchestra which was rehearsing Grieg's work. The director of the famous orchestra was in attendance and was very enthusiastic about Miss Olsen's voice.

TACKINANNY is a story by Mrs. Lizzie O. Borgeson White and granddaughter Dianne Olivia White about two little girl friends, one Indian and one white, and their common interest in the story of the Book of Mormon.
TO be published in the National Anthology of Patriotic Declamation, 1948, is Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman's poem, "The Empire of the Free." Selected as one of the outstanding poems among 3,000 entries in the Thanksgiving contest of the National Poetry Foundation, it received a merit citation.

It has a fine, marching rhythm, and sonorous, ringing diction. Page NO. The Annual General Church Conference AS the season approaches for calling together the greatest assemblage held on earth—a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—all members have cause to reflect upon the deep significance of the occasion and the great responsibility resting upon the leaders of the Church and upon this people. It is a time appointed for the gathering in of the saints