Sweeter Than Any Story
HAZEL K. T todd
For a brief minute she looked at the rows of keys with their millions of unwritten words. But she was too tired. Instead, she went out on the porch and sat in the late daylight on the red porch chair that had been scratched by little feet climbing up and down. It was a relief just to sit for a few minutes with no babies tugging at her skirts and no immediate pressing task. The three smallest children were in bed. Peter and Beth, seven and nine, were playing with a group of neighbor children. Frank had not come home to his evening meal yet, so she had a few minutes before she cleared away the supper things. But she had no heart for anything but just to sit.
Since before the twins were born a year and a half ago, it seemed she had hardly had a night's sleep without uncomfortable feelings or crying babies. Then there was all the sickness of the past year, tonsils and measles, and little four-year-old Terry's ruptured appendix. Now, with the thoughts of a new one to nurse through cutting teeth and all the other baby hardships, she was filled with self-pity and resentment. Besides, there were all the stories she meant to write some day. How her fingers itched sometimes to tap out on the typewriter some of the things that came and went mystically through her mind while she ironed little dresses and sewed shirt buttons. She had thought, with the children growing older, she might have a chance. But now another baby was coming to take all her time.
Across the yard in the early twilight she could see Mrs. Nelson, her newest neighbor, working in her flowers. How carefree she looked, cutting roses, slim in her cool dress with a bright kerchief around her hair. Morning and evening she had time to trim roses or tie up sweet peas. But then, she had no children, never any little dirty faces to wash, or baby food to prepare.
Now. She was running across the grass to her husband, coming up the walk. Julie bit her lip. She used to run to meet Frank. Now she wondered if she would ever run again. She watched them standing by a half dozen lilies with long, slender stalks. She had seen Mrs. Nelson fuss with them often. She looked at her own shaggy garden. Only today the twins had made the kitten a bed in the middle of her double petunias. They lay mashed and broken, just a ragged mess of leaves and wilted color.
Suddenly hot tears sprang to her eyes. It was so easy to cry now.
SHE brushed the tears away and the hair that had fallen over her face. As she did so, her glance reached across the yard again. Mrs. Nelson was looking at her curiously. She was alone, now, holding a bouquet of sweet peas. Since early spring they had lived with only a lane between them, and there had been no more conversation than a few words of greeting. Once the babies had strayed through the gate someone had left open, and she had caught them just before they went into the Nelson's yard. As she had hurried them back, she had caught Mrs. Nelson looking at her strangely.
Afraid they would get into her flowers, thought Julie. Now Mrs. Nelson was coming toward Julie's own gate with the flowers. 
At the same time Frank came around the house. Julie stood up, a little confused. "I wondered if you would like a bouquet of flowers," Mrs. Nelson asked quietly. "I didn't think you had any sweet peas." Of course she didn't have any! How could she have sweet peas when at the time they should have been planted both babies were cutting teeth, and she could barely get them out of her arms long enough to do the necessary things. "That is very thoughtful of you," Frank was saying. "You have beautiful flowers, Mrs. Nelson." Juice at last found her tongue. "Oh, yes, of course," she said, her face pink. "I don't have any." At that moment Beth and Peter came racing through the gate with laughter and excitement. At sight of the visitor, Beth, always shy, stopped by her father. But Peter, seeing the flowers, pulled down his mother's arm and buried his nose into the blossoms. "Do you like flowers?" Mrs. Nelson asked, with an amused smile. 

" Oh, sure," he said and turned a somersault which landed his shoe against the visitor's leg so that she stumbled to keep from falling. "Go into the house!" Julie spoke sharply, in humiliation. "I'm so sorry," she stammered. "Oh, that's quite all right," said Mrs. Nelson. Then, as Julie still stood embarrassed, she added, "I think my husband is waiting for me." And, turning, she walked quickly down the path. "Seems to be a pleasant person," Frank remarked. Again Julie swallowed the tears back in her throat. "If I had nothing to do but fuss with flowers, I could be pleasant, too," she snapped back at him. Frank looked at her quickly. "Julie," he said, putting his arm around her shoulder, tenderly, "this isn't like you. I know you are not well. Why don't you go to bed and get some rest?" "Rest!" she retorted. "Probably one of the babies will fuss all night." Then, hating herself for saying it, she turned, leaving him standing baffled and hurt. ER work finished, she stopped again by the typewriter and let her fingers run lightly over the keys. But there was no use to try to think of anything now. You couldn't write stories when your mind was in a turmoil and your body was tired out. She must go to bed and try to get some rest. At the door was dark-haired Beth for a good night kiss. She came to her mother a little hesitantly. Julie kissed her and watched the little girl go to her room, her dark hair bobbing up and down on her neck. She stopped by the door of the room shared by the two boys. Peter had gone to bed without saying good night. Switching on the light, she saw them lying there side by side, Peter and little Terry who had had appendicitis when he was only four. She looked at them a few minutes and then walked slowly to her own room. The little girl, she pulled were so sweet and still so small, too small to be pushed aside by another. 

The next day everything went wrong. Frank had suggested at the breakfast table that she take the children to the carnival that was in town, "I suppose that would be a pleasure to drag five children around a carnival!" she had answered impulsively. So he had gone away without saying goodbye, just as Peter had gone to bed without saying good night. All day it had rankled through her mind unpleasantly. Then the twins poured a pitcher of water into the dresser drawer. Peter and little Terry trying to clean up 4 mess of soap suds and glass on the floor. "What in the world are you doing?" gasped Julie, with a shudder at the mess. "But Mother, I was going to do the dishes and all the soap came out at once and when I was going to dip it out with the bottle, it fell and spilled everywhere," Peter said. In exasperation she slapped his face soundly. He looked shocked and frightened, and then ran crying into the bedroom. The twins took up the chorus and screamed loudly at the unexpected things happening. Peter slipped silently through the kitchen door, and Beth began fearfully to pick up bits of glass from the floor.

When the confusion had subsided, Julie, out on the porch, tried to calm herself. She sat on the scratched chair and folded her hands in her lap. Fence. She watched the bright colors sway and nod gently, her body gradually becoming relaxed. In a few short seconds her thoughts were off and away, past the land of crying babies, broken dishes, and unprepared dinners. In her mind new characters came into existence, walked mistily through new paths, and spoke bits of fascinating conversation. But suddenly they were the wrong words. "See! See!" Then tiny muddy fingers caught hers and wrapped themselves around her own. Away flew the land of enchantment on wings of suddenness.

Before her stood a little girl and a little boy, each with a tall flower clasped in a muddy hand, a tall flower, 4 stem and dangling roots. "Oh!" groaned Julie. "Mrs. Nelson's lilies, the ones she was showing her husband!" She snatched the flowers quickly from the two little muddy hands that reached vainly into the air. Pushing them away, she started down the porch steps, the two whimpering babies following her.

This was something that must be explained, apologized for. But how could she make Mrs. Nelson understand that children, something she had never had, could do impossible things. She must have left the gate unfastened herself when she hurried back with the two older children. Oh, what in the world could she say? At the door she rang the bell and waited, the two babies hanging to her skirt with muddy hands.

At last the door was opened and Mrs. Nelson looked into her face quizzically, then at the lilies, "My babies—they must have slipped through the gate and, Mrs. Nelson, I am so sorry, they have pulled up your lilies!" Mrs. Nelson's gaze went from the flowers to the children. "Oh, so you pulled my flowers," she said.

The two crept farther behind the mother, and Mrs. Nelson laughed. JULIE was thunderstruck. Was she using this way to shame her for the thing her children had done! She put an arm protectingly around each little neck, "I cannot replace them of course, Mrs. Nelson, but I assure you that they shall not come into your yard any more." With a quick gesture she took the babies by the hand, biting her lip to keep back the tears.

But she was detained by a hand on her shoulder, "Please do not go." Julie looked up into the strange expression. "I didn't mean to embarrass you. Don't you see, I am not concerned about the flowers? I can have more flowers. I was wondering why you always take your children away from me so soon."

"I know you have a lot to do and cannot always keep track of them." Julie could hold back the tears no longer. Dropping on the couch, she buried her face in her hands and cried bitterly, while two scared little children clung to her skirts and whimpered. She heard Mrs. Nelson speaking to them in a quiet voice, felt her take them away gently, and presently she could hear her talking brightly about shoes and cars and airplanes from a magazine that rattled as she turned the pages. Then Julie felt a soft touch on her shoulder. "Can you tell me what is the matter?" Julie forgot her restraint. "It's just that I'm going to have another," she said through quivering lips, "another baby!" Mrs. Nelson looked at her in astonishment, "But surely that is nothing to cry about." "But I already have five!" wailed Julie. "Five to cook and sew for; I never have any time to do anything for myself." "She wiped the tears away. "Don't you see, there are things I should like to do too, like you plant flowers. Well, I have always wanted to write stories." The words tumbled out, one after another, and suddenly sounded so childish to Julie that she dropped her eyes miserably. Mrs. Nelson was silent. Presently Julie looked at her, but she was staring at the babies now, happily looking at magazines. She said without turning her eyes, "You know, I would give all the flowers I could ever raise, all the stories in SWEETER THAN ANY STORY in the world, if I could just have one little child like that!" Julie looked at her in amazement. "You mean you would like children? I thought...." "Yes, I know you thought I didn't want children because they would spoil my flowers. I raise flowers because I cannot raise babies. I can never know what it is to feel my little soft baby in my arms, and feel its tiny hand on my face as I have seen babies do. You," she turned and looked at Julie, and the anguish in her face wrenched Julie's heart, "you have had five babies to cuddle. Now you are going to have another one, but I must go on with my foolish flowers!" Her eyes were misty, and she wiped them quickly. "Forgive me," she said again. "I am sorry if I have sounded harsh. I know you are tired. But if I could just make you realize what priceless treasures you have." 

JULIE was ashamed. She had never been so ashamed in her life before. If it had been a gentle rebuke, she had certainly needed it. Now she saw how foolish she had been acting lately; how unfair she had treated Frank that morning; how irritable she had been with the children. The slim figure sat beside her, and laid her hand on Julie's. "Why don't you let me help you? It would be a pleasure to watch the children while you have a rest or go to a movie with your husband, and let me help you sew for the new one. What a thrill it would be to make little things for a baby! If you knew how hungry I have been to hold one of your twins, to brush little Jane's curls!" Julie felt fresh and new. "Oh, thank you so much, Mrs. Nelson!" "My name is Ruth, and let me call you Julie." "Thank you, Ruth." Then she remembered it was nearly suppertime. Frank would be home, and she wanted to have something he especially liked. Maybe there was time for an apple pie. "I'd better be going." She stood up and started for the babies. But Ruth caught her hand. "Please let them stay awhile." So she left them, still happy with their magazines. Then, as she came up the steps of the porch, she thought of little Terry. She had punished him because he had tried to help. A sudden need to have his forgiveness awakened in her. She found him on his bed asleep, his little tear-stained face streaked with dirt. His shirt was pulled out, revealing the long appendicitis scar, vivid to her now as a token of remembrance. How could she have scolded him for breaking a bottle of water? What did it matter if he had spilled a dozen bottles of water? How glad, how lucky, she was to have him. She dropped to the bedside and stroked the hair of his head tenderly. 

The child stirred in his sleep, then opened large brown eyes, unknowingly, first, then, seeing his mother's face friendly and close beside his own, he smiled warmly with no trace of past grievances, and gave her a big kiss on the cheek. "Mother, why are you crying?" Julie brushed the moisture away. "Oh, I guess I'm just happy, Terry." And she knew that the warmth of her arms around him was all he needed to understand why she cried when she was glad. Then, while she sat with him in her lap, she thought of the stories she meant to write some day. There would be long years ahead when the children would be grown and away in houses of their own, with their own little Terrys. Then she could write stories, and they would be filled with the smiles of little children twining around the heart, with the mischief of twins, and with dark hair bobbing up and down on a shy girl's neck. Oh, they would be sweeter than any other stories! Her thoughts were interrupted by Beth and Peter, who came trooping into the room, glad to find their mother in a happier mood. Then the twins came home, each with a clothespin doll. "See! See!" they said joyously, holding out the dolls in chubby hands. "Mother, read us a story." It was Peter, with his tongue in the vacant spot of his upper tooth row. "Please do," put in Beth, and the twins added, "Tory, Tory," as if they knew what a story was. It was here Frank found them when he came home, unheard. Julie looked up and saw joyous relief in his face. "What is this?" he said with a grin. "Daddy, daddy!" piped the twins racing to reach him first. "Mother, read us a story," announced Beth standing up and straightening her pinafore. "Yes," agreed Julie, "I was going to make an apple pie, but I read a story." "What I found tonight," - said Frank, with his eyes on Julie, "was sweeter than any story."