It's Fun to Make Pie
Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society

IT'S fun to make pie, and it is quick and easy if you use a pastry cloth and a rolling pin jacket! These can be purchased in any store, but it is much cheaper to make your own.

Buy a piece of white canvas at any farm store. The canvas comes in various widths from 30 inches to 60 inches. Two-thirds of a yard of the 30-inch canvas will make two pastry cloths. Cut the edges with pinking shears or turn a small narrow hem on the raw edges.

For the rolling pin jacket buy a small pair of child's white stockings, cut off the feet, and you have two rolling pin jackets. Pull one jacket over the rolling pin. If the stocking is too long turn the ends back in on themselves.

Before using, work or rub as much flour into the jacket and cloth as they will absorb. Do not leave excess flour on the surface. Also use the cloth and jacket to roll cookies, doughnuts, rolls, noodles, or any rolled dough. With this pastry cloth and rolling pin jacket you can handle a much softer dough as they never stick and the dough to the board and the rolling pin. They also eliminate frequent adding of flour when making pastry, thereby assuring you of lighter and more tender pie crusts.

Have you ever tried hot water pie crust? Here is a never-fail recipe:

1 1/2 cups flour
1 tsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. salt
1 cup shortening
1 cup boiling water

Pour boiling water over shortening and beat until creamy. Sift in flour, salt, and baking powder. Stir and roll out. Makes 2 crusts.

Many recipes advise chilling in the ice box, but with a pastry cloth this is unnecessary, and warm dough is easier to handle and makes a more flaky crust.

Bake at oven temperature suitable for the type and size of the pie, between 400° and 550° F.

The "Basic-Seven" Pattern for Nutrition
Bernice Stookey Linford Iron County, Utah, Home Agent

PHYSICAL health is necessary for mental and spiritual growth and well-being. We eat food primarily for nutrition. Food at best is expensive, but malnutrition is often found in families which spend the most money for food. This may be due to lack of information and poor selection or preparation. Many overweight people are malnourished because they do not have a balanced diet.

A food pattern for health is definitely included in the Word of Wisdom, as well as the harmful effects of the use of liquor, tobacco, tea, coffee, and drug-containing drinks.
". . . all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man—Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly . . . . All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth (D. & C. 89:10 ff.)."

"In the season thereof" may, in my opinion, refer to natural foods at proper maturity—fresh or properly preserved.

Each day we read warnings written by food specialists urging us to eat more natural foods, not only to ensure health, but to build resistance against disease. Disease always follows or goes hand in hand with hunger, the aftermath of war.

Vitamins are vital substances found in natural, fresh, and properly prepared foods. They regulate body processes and build up resistance against disease. "The destroying angel shall pass by them"—can this not mean that health could be so fortified that disease germs could be thrown from the body? Vitamin D, so potent in protecting health, is manufactured in the body by exposing the skin to direct sunlight.

Food, "in the season thereof," eaten raw, cooked, canned, or frozen, is rich in vitamins. The cost, in many cases, can be reduced more than 100%, and the food is more wholesome and better flavored if prepared at home. A well-balanced diet, including, each day, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, mineral salts, vitamins, and water will supply body needs without adding synthetic vitamins.

The following "basic-seven" pattern is recommended by the National Food and Nutrition Board. It is recognized as an ideal health pattern. Include some foods from each group in the diet each day.
Fluid milk (adults, 1 pint; children, ½ to 1 quart; expectant and nursing mothers, 1 quart)
If fluid milk is unavailable or unsafe,
Page 271 a 1-pint can of evaporated milk or ¼ cup dried milk are equivalent to 1 quart fluid milk. Ice cream and various types of cheese, too, can be used to make up this group—American cheese, and cottage cheese.

GREEN AND YELLOW VEGETABLES (One or more servings)
Cabbage
Broccoli
Lettuce
Carrots
Spinach
Sweet Potatoes
Asparagus
Yellow squash
Peas
Pumpkin
Beans
Yellow turnips

ORANGES, TOMATOES, GRAPEFRUIT (One or more servings)
Fresh or canned juices
Raw cabbage
Raw vegetables in salad

POTATOES AND OTHER VEGETABLES AND FRUITS (One or more servings)
Potatoes (at least once daily)
Grapes (fresh or canned, frozen beans or dried)
Cauliflower
Berries
Onions
Melons
Com Cantaloupes
Turnips
Peaches
Pears
Dates
Apples
Figs
Radishes
Prunes

MEAT, POULTRY, FISH, ECEs (One serving of meat, poultry, or fish daily)
One egg daily (at least four a week)
Dried beans: (an excellent source of calcium, as well as of minerals and protein )
Peas
Nuts
Peanut Butter

BREAD, FLOUR AND CEREALS (Enriched or whole-grain)
Bread, or its equivalent at each meal, according to age and energy needs of the individual.

 
Two to three level tablespoons. Serve some with each meal.
Other animal and vegetable fats as needed.
Six to eight glasses of water should be included in each daily diet. A glass of warm water taken early in the morning is beneficial.
'The juice of one half lemon added to the water and taken thirty minutes before breakfast, before any food is taken into the body, is an effective regulator and also corrects bad Families with low incomes may find it impossible to include as much meat, poultry, and butter as desired, but in all diets it is recommended to include liver, heart, or kidney, at least once a week.
Liver is our most valuable meat. Liver from calves, beef, pork, or sheep is similar in nutritive value. The milder the flavor, the higher the price. Stronger flavored liver may be ground and sage, onion, celery, and bread crumbs added to make liver loaf.
If changes must be made because of low income, natural molasses, soybeans, dried beans and peas, peanut butter, and rice—especially brown rice—should be included often. Increase the use of whole grains, as whole-wheat cereals and breads. Serve more fruits and vegetables, fresh, canned, frozen, or dried.
But most important, increase milk and milk products. Milk is our most perfect food. It supplies energy, protein, vitamins, and minerals. It is our best insurance against diet deficiencies. It is also our best source of calcium, which is essential for the functioning of every cell in the body, for building teeth, bones, and blood, and for all body processes.
When meat, cheese, and fluid milk are scarce, or unsafe because cows are not properly tested, dried milk can be used. Dried whole milk should be kept under refrigeration, since the fat becomes rancid. Dried skimmed milk may be used in many ways and is very reasonable in price. One half cup of dried milk contains milk solids equal to one quart of fresh milk.
Use it in creamed soups, breads, gravies, puddings, ice cream, cookies, and add it to cooked YELLOW VEGETABLES. Cereals.
Dried milk has the advantage, too, that an extra amount can be added, if necessary, for protection of health. For cooking, it is much easier and quicker to measure out the amount needed for the recipe, then mix or sift the dried milk with the dry ingredients, instead of putting it in with the moisture, as is usually done in recipes. The particles of milk absorb moisture very slowly; it takes a long time for the milk, if mixed with water, to make a smooth paste, but it can be done quickly by putting milk in a small (Continued on page 285)