Photograph submitted by Zelma S. Muir
Seated, left to right: Phylis S. Warr, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society; Lydia R. Smith, Welfare Counselor.
Standing, left to right: Marian Tolton and Alice Heslington, counselors in Beaver East Ward; Minnie Griffiths and Ruby Grimshaw, members of the Rug committee; Worth, Stake Employment Placement Counselor.

This interesting and successful Project has utilized many rags and much cast-off clothing that might otherwise have been wasted. Between and the end as the supervisor of the visiting teachers and is still directing this work with great efficiency. Regardless of weather, physical handicaps, or the sorrows that have been hers, Sister White has faithfully performed her duties. She is a Gold Star mother of World War II.

The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson).

Photograph submitted by Mae Matis
Left to right: First Counselor Vieno Tyren; Secretary Hellevi Niemi; President Ida Helio; President of Finland Mission Relief Society Mae Matis; Second Counselor Hilma Hellsten.

Sister Mae Matis reports that none of the articles in this bazaar were made from new material and yet each article was beautifully made and will be very serviceable. In commenting upon the activities of our Finnish sisters, President Matis writes: "From this faraway country the sisters of the Relief Society send their choicest greetings.... We now have four active Relief Society groups in Finland, at Helsinki, Turku, Larsmo, and Jacobstad. All the sisters are willing and anxious to do their part and we are looking forward with a great deal of anticipation.

'Two of the groups held bazaars in December. I admired their spirit to even try with so little material to work with. It is impossible to buy material or yarn of any kind here. The sisters unraveled old sweaters, socks, and shawls which had already been made over several times and remade them. They were happy with their efforts and it was a goal for them to work toward."

Photograph submitted by Naomi Chandler

Ten wards are represented in the miles to practice. Mary Gilchrist, the Idaho Falls Temple in , is president of the stake Relief Society. Naomi Chandler took a chorus from the Pocatello Ward and some of the sister choristers traveled fifty miles to sing in this conference.

Photograph submitted by Annie Parker

Elaine Miller;