[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Take Ye Heed, Watch and Pray" by Mary Grant Judd]

visiting teacher report book. Use your own judgment as to whether or not you will call upon non-members of the Church.
This is an additional possibility for subscriptions and may result in much good in bringing the gospel to other people. (The Relief Society Magazine was placed in the homes of eighteen non-members of the Church in the Firth Ward, Shelley Stake, in 1948.
Firth is a small town with 102
Latter-day Saint and part Latter-day Saint families. ) 4.
Have a goal representing what you would like to do. Latter-day Saints work for the highest degree. The number enrolled on the Relief Society record in your ward is the number of subscriptions you will need to obtain 100 per cent in your work. Seventy-five per cent will place you on the Honor Roll in Magazine work, but it takes the number of your ward enrollment at the close of 1949 to make 100% for your ward in 1950. 5: Make a definite study of the principal features of The Relief Society Magazine, so that you will be prepared to tell others about it. 6. You are now ready to begin your work.
Before going into the homes, be humble and prayerful and rely on the Lord in all things. Let your mind be open to inspiration and make use of new thoughts which may come to you for working possibilities. 'This is really the interesting part in connection with the work.
Have several copies of the Magazine with you and let the people see what you desire to tell them about the Magazine.: 7.
Wherever you go, let the visit be a pleasant one. Let the brief visit be one of happiness to you and to the one whom you contact.
Consider carefully refusals; there may be some way you can help. 'Take plenty of time to consider all details carefully, be tactful and suggestive, but never try to force others to see as you would like to have them. Generally, visits should be short ones, but on one occasion I took my crocheting with me ahd sat a while in each home visiting a few minutes. In our community everyone is my friend and I wanted to visit with them awhile and also I was walking and would have about three miles or more to go before the afternoon was over. I planned my homework so I could have every Monday afternoon on Magazine work, as it was needed. 8. Be "Magazine Friendly" with the people in your ward the year around. Ask the subscribers if they are getting their Magazines, if they are enjoying them. Did you read this article by —————, or that story by —————-?
Talk about the lessons or Page 520