["Just a Housewife" by Winifred N. Jones]

"Just a Housewife!"' Winifred N. Jones FELT I would explode. If I heard just one more woman on just one more radio program say just one more time, "I'm just a housewife!" She did! Why must women insist on being apologetic about being a housewife— or, if you prefer, homemaker?
Practically every woman spends most of her first twenty-five years trying to become a wife and housekeeper and then immediately starts feeling sorry for herself because she has what she wanted! Any woman who is a good homemaker has nothing on earth for which to apologize. She must furnish hard work, intelligence, ingenuity, and an unlimited amount of patience for the job.
Successful homemaking can and will give a woman enormous satisfaction if she will bring to it the same time, attention, and interest a job outside of her home would demand of her.
This belittling attitude so many women adopt toward homemaking breeds the very things that make it unattractive for them, carelessness and inefficiency and monotony and drudgery to household tasks. In contrast, the woman who keeps her home in shipshape order has time for activities that will keep her mentally alert and stimulated. She doesn't always have left-over jobs to do! The woman who opens a can of soup or puts together a tasteless sandwich at lunchtime for herself and children can't help feeling that cooking is a bore. But the lady of  the house who prides herself on always setting an attractive and appetizing meal on the table enjoys doing it.
Women are not honest with themselves about this thing.
They spend time daydreaming about being a big cog in an exciting office, when, in truth, they would probably be very small wheels in very monotonous jobs. A woman who wears houseslippers most of the day in her home frets about how ting her housework is. How long does she think those tenderized feet would last holding her up behind a counter all day! Has the woman who moans about the trial of having to wash dishes three times a day ever worked in a bindery where they handle thousands of identical sheets of paper over and over and over? Doesn't the woman who complains about her husband's desire to stay home evening after evening ever recall that the reason she married him was "'so we can be alone together'? It's up to her to make that time together as interesting now as it was then! She can— if she will insist on bringing attractiveness into: her home. HEAR women saying it can't be done on limited budgets. Nonsense. Of course having plentv to do with helps, but a little imagination and hard work pay higher home dividends. Let her forget what. Her neighbor has or has not in her house.
After all, she and her family must live in theirs! Adjust JUST A HOUSEWIFE the home necessities to the desires of the family. That's the strongest long-range standard. It is usually the woman who complains about a lack of clothes who remarks in the next breath, "IT never sew. It bores me." She is also the woman who doesn't realize that the most expensive clothes anil those selected by "best-dressed" women are those that are individually tailored, not those turned out by the hundreds in factories.
This same attitude is reflected in her relationship with her children. Picnics, parties, family reading hours, and established Christmas traditions are absent from the home of the woman who whines, "The children nearly wear me out!" 541
Women will argue that society doesn't expect every man to be a doctor, lawyer, or ditch-digger, but expects every woman to be a good homemaker. Very well, but society also expects every man to give his time, energy, and devotion to his job. Should less be expected of a woman? She chose to be a housewife! The woman who fails at being a homemaker and dreams of an exciting and successful career as a business woman fails to recognize that routine, application to detail, and performing an unpleasant job are also essential to a business career. She also forgets that she is working © for, and with the man whom she selected to be her companion in the building of an eternal home. Jo Carol On the Death of Her Mother Margaret B. Shomaker If words could pierce sorrow's brittle pain And touch the weeping heart, to ease its grief, My trembling lips would sing a sweet refrain In hope the tone would bring you sure relief. Then I would take a splinter from the moon And lead you from this sorrow, dark as night, To where the lips and heart caress a tune And tired eyes tum with courage to the light. But from my lips only a muted cry; Held in my heart the tone of silent song, Caught like a bird in prison from the sky. Please let me hold your hand in silence strong, For unsaid words will vibrate sorrow's air And you will understand my wordless prayer. The Washstand—1950
Versiant Kathryn Jane Collins IXTY years or so ago, when there was no hot water rushing from the tap at the turn of a handle, a small washstand with a pitcher and bowl standing on top was a prominent feature of almost every bedroom. At the washstand you scrubbed and polished yourself! Today, these very same wash- 'stands, when refinished in a simple and inexpensive way, add charm and beauty to our homes.
These small, low chests of drawers are very versatile and can be used in many ways. Usually, they have one long drawer across the top and the lower part of the washstand is divided into two sections, one side with a door and the other side with two smaller drawers. The wood is usually solid. The ones I have seen have been made of walnut, oak, maple, or cherry.
Since these washstands were so common, probably way back in your basement or hidden in your attic under all those things that such places usually collect.
Maybe you have an aunt or a cousin who has one. If these sources fail, perhaps the secondhand store might have one.
With a mirror hung.
Above the washstand to give you a glimpse of yourself or to give your guests a chance to straighten their ties and fix that wayw washstand makes a hall inviting. You can use one in the dining room as a useful server and store silver in the drawers and tall vases  you have one. Ard lock, the You will need rags and an old paint brush, which can be thrown away in the cabinet section. An excellent bedside table can be made from one, or an extra chest of drawers for all those things that seem to collect. For the lady who sews, it is just the place for all her sewing supplies. We use ours for a radio cabinet.
After removing the old varnish, I found the top to be a lovely piece of burl-grained maple. I removed the door panel and replaced it with a piece of ordinary wire lathe, the kind used in plastering. First, I gilded it, and the result is an attractive grilled door. The radio speaker will be hidden behind this grill, which will have a piece of tapestry tacked to the back. We plan to cut off the front panel from the upper small drawer and hinge it to pull down and expose the dials. The bottom drawer will hold the radio chassis and tubes. To refinish one of these pieces is very simple.
First remove any hardware and examine it carefully before discarding it. A little paint remover used on the hardware may reveal beautiful old brass handles and knobs. If not, you can purchase very nice copies of antique hardware at the store.
Before beginning the refinishing, protect your hands with gloves and protect the floor with newspapers.
After the work is completed.
Begin by removing the drawers and placing the washstand on its THE WASHSTAND—1950 VERSION back so that the front is horizontal with the floor.
Spread paint remover on generously with the brush and let it stand until the surface begins to crack. Then, working with the grain, use a putty knife or some similar object to remove the old paint or varnish. Get into the corners and flutings.
Then do the top, and the sides. 'Try to have each section in a horizontal position when applying the paint remover so that. It will not run off.
After all the old — finish is off, apply another coat and wipe off thoroughly with rags.
Then wipe all the surfaces with alcohol to remove any wax left by the paint remover.
Sand any surfaces with the grain of the wood. You may find that the whole - piece needs staining. If you wish to stain it be sure to try 'dipped in benzine. Rough - 543 samples of your stain in an inconspicuous corner before applying it all over.
After some searching, I found a mahogany stain in the lovely dark purple tones one finds in good furniture.
Stain the piece and let it dry thoroughly. Now you are ready for the final step. 'There are several ways to finish off the washstand. You can varnish the surface, then rub down with pumice and oil. To remove excess pumice, wipe with a cloth Then polish with a chamois. Or the waxed finish may appeal to you. Wax thoroughly; rub with steel wool and then with a chamois. Let this stand for a week; then wax and rub down again.
Continue until the piece has a lovely patina. I myself prefer the oil finish.
This finish takes much wear, will not scratch as varnish does, and brings out the grain of the wood. For it I mix two parts of linseed oil with one part of turpentine and bring to a boil. 'Then cool and, with a soft cloth, apply to a small section, rubbing it in well for five to twenty minutes on each section.
When you finish, the wood should be dry and unable to absorb more. 'Do not let the oil remain on top in a sticky film. Rub always with the grain of the wood.
Then wait a week and apply more. In another week, apply still more.
Four or five applications should give the finish you want. By now, the washstand, with glowing handles and a beautiful, mellow patina, is ready for a new and useful life. You will be greatly repaid for the small amount of time you have spent. She (Best Sime of Your Life | Ezra J. Poulsen 4 you were asked the question, "What was the best time of your life?" you should be able to answer, especially if you are past fifty, "Right now."
Your accumulation of experience, with its attendant wit and wisdom, gives you every advantage over those of less mature years. The old philosophy that life follows the ascending scale up to forty, then slowly declines to the end, is about as useful as ox-team transportation, typhoid fever, and superstition. Today, we ate capable of seeing brighter vistas. We might think of ourselves as travelers in a country of endless beauty and challenge, with the brightest prospects and most intriguing situations just ahead. To do this is to keep young and eager in spirit. Wouldn't it have been a tragic joke on the children of Israel if Moses, at the age of sixty or seventy, had folded up his tent and decided it was too late to engage in any important undertakings? Of course, we would never have heard of him; his real life's work hadn't begun at that age.
Like the palm tree, which produces its finest dates after it reaches the first hundred years, we should grow richer in production and maturity with the passing of time. The roster of fame is filled with the deeds of those in the upper barckets of years, who have gone jauntily on with their work and their dreams, too busy to stop and think. Of their infirmities. Benjamin West (1738-1820), the great painter, completed two of his most important productions, "Death on the Pale Horse," and "Christ Healing the Sick," when he might be considered to have been an old man. At the age of eighty, he was still - president of the Royal Academy. — William Wordsworth did not attain the office of poet laureate of England until 1843, when he was seventy-three. And Edmund Burke, the great English statesman, born in 1729, was nearly sixty when he delivered his masterful speech against Warren Hastings. Perhaps, we would not be very well acquainted with the name of Alfred Tennyson today if he had belonged to the "cult of youth," for he accomplished his greatest works, such as "Enoch Arden' (1864) and "The Holy Grail' (1869) when he was past fifty and in his sixties. "Crossing the Bar' did not see the light of day until 1889, when the poet was beyond eighty. 'hough the vears may require a reasonable slowing down of one's physical activity, they impair but little, if any, the mental and spiritual robustness of those who enjoy growth and service.
Even on the physical side, we are inclined to coddle ourselves too much. We do too much tapering off, and pinching out. General Winfield Scott was past sixty at the time he won his great victories in the Mexican war, and, in 1852 at sixty-six, he became a candidate for the presidency of the United States. Likewise, Zachary Taylor, the hero of Monterey, became President in 1849, at the age of sixty-four. Page 544 ® THE BEST TIME OF YOUR LIFE. 545
Many great mental achievements have flowered in ripened minds. Maria Edgeworth's novel Helen, comprising three volumes, was published (1834) when she was sixty-eight years old, and it is considered one of her best works. The time to be of good cheer, to enjoy one's friends, and to accomplish interesting and worthy achievements is always now, even if you are ninety years young. <_< Wrllowware Plate Irene Storey My eyes wander over A willowware plate And rest on Koong Shee, Who, the legends relate, Parted with Chang In the dim long ago, Still waiting the summons, For all that I know. Still stands the blue tower Beside the blue gate, At which Koong Shee Seems forever to wait. Undimmed and unchanged, Nor days seem to matter, As they drift into years On my blue willow platter. Se" ea "LEARN TO LABOR AND TO WAIT" Caroline Eyring Miner OVER and over goes the little tune (and the name tune is questionable). Helen, our eight-year-old, is practicing her piano lesson. She stretches her fingers and she halts in her tempo and withal she labors most diligently. 'The rest of the family? We grit our teeth and we wait—wait for the time when she will either give up or will be able to play at least two tunes in a fairly facile manner, but wait we must. But we are all learning an important lesson. If one is eventually to reap, one must sow, and that well in advance of the harvest. Success does not come easily. We have to labor, and with it we have to be patient until the harvest comes. The Curies in their search for radium worked and waited during the long years for their labors to bear fruit. They had sufficient vision and belief in what they were doing to keep them laboring and waiting. And such is the story of every great scientist, inventor, and artist. A little foresight and thought and ambition and desire, and we may launch upon a project of large or small dimensions. We may keep working and waiting until the projected dream becomes a reality. The Helens will continue to practice their scales upon the piano, the Jimmies will puff their cheeks until they fairly burst, learning to play the trombone, and we shall all await the day of the fulfillment of their dreams, and labor and wait also for the fruition of our own. From The F leld _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES. Photograph submitted by Jessie Reese SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FOURTH WARD BAZAAR November 1949
Standing, left to right: First Counselor Rachel Hillyard; President Vera Roskelly; Second Counselor Fern Heaps; Secretary-Treasurer Vera Noble; work meeting leader Afton G. Smith. Describing the activities which preceded the bazaar, this enthusiastic society reports: "Last fall we had one of the most successful bazaars ever held in our ward. We commenced in February 1949 by calling for all available used and unused materials which could be made into rugs or whatever else the materials might be suited for. 'The response was overwhelming and enough material was brought or sent in to keep the members very busy until the bazaar in November. The average summer attendance was between forty and fifty women and the increased activity brought the members closer together and the entire project resulted in a great deal of good accomplishment, both spiritually and financially." Alta C. Allen is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Page 546 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 547
Photograph submitted by Lucille H. Spencer NEBO STAKE (UTAH), SPRING LAKE WARD, FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT A VALENTINE'S PARTY, February 14, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: La Vona Thomas; Annie Menlove; Hortense Butler., Back row, standing, left to mght: Rhea Menlove, present president; Cecil Peery; Lucille Spencer. All Relief Society members over sixty-five years of age were especially honored at this social. Lucille H. Spencer is president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mima Hainsworth PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), COLONIAL HEIGHTS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED QUILTS AT THE BAZAAR, November 4, 1949
Laura Ross, assistant work meeting leader and Josephine N. Olsen, work meeting leader, are shown in front of the quilts. Also displayed were fifty aprons, a large number of towels, luncheon cloths, embroidered pillow cases, and a beautiful assortment of baby jackets, dresses, layettes, dolls, and dozens of other articles. Officers of the Colonial Heights Ward Relief Society are: President Alice B. Kraft; First Counselor Vera Remington; Second Counselor Nell B, Smart; Secretary-Treasurer Ethel Hurlburt. Mima Hainsworth is president of Portland Stake Relief Society. 
548 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950
Photograph submitted by LaVon Jacobson LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HOLLYWOOD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ASSEMBLED AT ANNIVERSARY DAY LUNCHEON, March 14, 1950
Left to right: President LaVon Jacobson; former presidents: Agnes Sloanie Nibley; Ella Perkins; Geneva Cooper; Isabelle Smith; Elizabeth Denhalter; Mary Watkins. Inset: Velma Richardson. Former presidents not in the photograph are: Kate Nielson; Irene McCullough; Frances Conover; Ida E. Nelson; Ethel Peterson (deceased). Dorothy Koer is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edna J. Kindred SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 14, 1950
Eileen Weaver, the accompanist, is seated at the left on the first row; Edna Kindred, Stake Relief Society President, is standing second from the left in the front row; Uarda Whiting, Second Counselor, is tenth from the left, first row. Blonda Knight, the chorister, stands at the right on the second row. Vera Hart, First Counselor, stands fourth from the left in the third row..
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 549
Edna J. Kindred, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the closing of a season of successful activities: "Tuesday, May 23rd, we held our stake Relief Society closing social, with about 200 women in attendance. We had a lovely program, followed by a display of handwork which included most of our 1950
Welfare sewing assignment, along with many other lovely things. We made a little souvenir booklet which we presented to each sister as she came in. We also have a stake Singing Mothers group, consisting of sixty-one members, who sang at stake conference (May 14th) and at our closing social." Photograph by Keith Studio, Bellingham, Washington Submitted by Birdie S. Bean SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON), BELLINGHAM WARD PAGKANT "MOTHERS OF MEN," March 17, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Bradbury as Rebekah; Ruby Smith as a pioneer mother. Second row, seated, left to fight: Emily Newberry as Eve; Etta Pratt as Sariah, Elma Hansen as a Pilgrim mother; Jule McEntire as a mother of today; First Counselor Ranghild Safsten as Lucy Mack Smith; Iola Kent as Nancy Hanks. Seated, center, rear: Mary Rowe, as Mary, the mother of Jesus. Back row, standing, left to right: Thelma Umphenour, accompanist; Elizabeth Salmon, director; President Rae Linde; Second Counselor Ella M. Petrie. Birdie S. Bean is president of Seattle Stake Relief Society. 
550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950
Photographs submitted by Amelia H. Robertson BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), VISITING TEACHERS OF LOVELL WARD, LOVELL WEST WARD, AND COWLEY WARD ACHIEVE A RECORD OF 100 PER CENT. Top photograph—Lovell Ward Visiting Teachers. Officers of the Ward Relief Society are seated in the front row, beginning with the second from the left, left to right: visiting teacher supervisor Aurelia Beddes; Counselor Thelma Corbridge; President Ida Shumway; Counselor Martha Gorbutt; Secretary Lorainne Fillerup. Middle photograph—Lovell West Ward Visiting Teachers. Officers of the Ward Relief Society, seated in the first row, beginning with the second from the left: Secretary Marcella Allred; Counselor Lulu Dillon; President Verda Asay. Seated in the second row, beginning with the second from the left: visiting teacher supervisors Edith Marshall and Kate Moncur. Bottom photograph—Cowley Ward Visiting Teachers. Ward Relief Society officers, seated in the second row, beginning with the second from the left: Counselor Iva Lewis; Counselor Pauline Stevens; President Geneva Stevens; visiting teacher supervisor Charlotte Mayer; Secretary Lamar Jensen. Amelia H. Robertson is president of Big Hom Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 551
Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie CALIFORNIA MISSION, WASCO BRANCH DISPLAYS FURNISHINGS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM. Front row, seated, left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Rae Hager; Second Counselor Rilla Honor; President Belva Edwards; First Counselor Flossie Hallmark; Louise Whedon.. Second row, standing, left to right: Chorister Barbara Baker; Zella MacDonald; Iris Dverksen; June Hawkins; Ruth Eaton. Third row, left to right: Ora Eta Gubler; Josephine Spilsbury; Florence Hallmark; Thora Landrum; Loretta Rose Stuart; Gertrude MacArthur. The photograph shows the Relief Society members and some of the furnishings of their Relief Society room. The lamps and rugs displayed in the picture were made by the women, and numerous other articles were made for bazaars and welfare work. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: President Isabell L. Curl; First Counselor Verla A. Marley; Second Counselor Ethel Aldous; Secretary Emma Puckett, who has been a member of the Ward Relief Society presidency for twelve consecutive years and in that time has missed cnly one meeting, this occasion being at the time of the death of her sister. Helen Pugmire is president of Pocatello Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Erma Croxall 52 SC RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950
Photograph submitted by Pearl Halverson GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), WEST GLENDALE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED AT THE NEW GLENDALE WEST WARD CHAPEL AT THE CLOSE OF THE SEASON'S WORK May 1950
Officers of the society are seated in the front row, left to right: President Pearl Halverson; Second Counselor Blanche Alvard; First Counselor Barbara James; SecretaryTreasurer Edith Cooper. Mary E. Cutler is president of Glendale Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Verna L. Dewsnup ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), HONORS ELDERLY RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, April 28, 1950
Front row, left to right: Cora S. Hagan; Jane Moss; Emma Riddle; Effie Dunham; Avery Jones; Julia Andrus. Back row, left to right: Mary Woodbury; Mary Reber; Ella Seegmiller; Emma S. Little; Anna M. Cox; Julia Graff; Ann Rinslasbaugher. The combined ages of these women, most of whom are still active visiting teachers, is 933 years, and the combined period of time spent as visiting teachers is 572 years. Verna L. Dewsnup is president of St. George Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD | 553
Photograph submitted by Faymetta S. Prows MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), FLOWELL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to nght, former Relief Society presidents: Martha F. Bushnell; Rozilpha C. Allen; Adeline A. Brinkerhoof. Inserts: (left) Rosanna Tucker; (right) Ethel B. Johnson (deceased). Back row, left to right, former Relief Society presidents: Nona C. Tomkinson; Faun W. Utley; Virgie W. Ivy; Fauntella D. Robison, present president. Faymetta S. Prows is president of Millard Stake Relief Society. Parting Christie Lund Coles Say it was something born of the night, Fragile as the shadow-lace of trees Lying on water, shimmering and bright, Say it was stars—Venus, the Pleiades, Say it was only, only these. Say it was night sounds, delicate, Whispered in the tall, dew-speckled grass; Say it was wind, sudden and intimate, Say it was skies, lu minous as glass. Say it was these and let it pass. LESSON Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 26—"The Trial and Condemnation" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 34.) For Tuesday, November 7, 1950
Objective: To demonstrate the matchless love of Christ by recounting what he suffered to save mankind. The Jewish Trial After his betrayal Jesus was taken first to the Jewish rulers.
Early in the night he was taken to the high priest, Caiaphas. The latter was little more than a tool to do the bidding of Annas, a deposed high priest to whom Jesus was first taken.
Evidently a meeting of the Sanhedrin had been called at the palace of Caiaphas. The chief priests and scribes awaited eagerly the coming of Jesus at that place. No serious student of Jewish or other law has ever attempted to justify the mockery of the proceedings that fatal night. No hearing or judicial trial involving capital punishment could be conducted except in the regular official courtroom of the Sanhedrin. The accused had a right to be confronted by the accusing witnesses and hear their testimony before a court could define the charges. Instead, the high priest began immediately to question Jesus concerning his doctrines -in an effort to make him testify against himself. The Lord made Page 554 a perfectly good objection to the procedure when he replied: I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing. Why askest thou me? Ask them which hear me, what I] have said unto them: behold, they know what I said (John 18:20-21).
Instead of receiving the reply, as would have been the case in any fair court, one of the officers struck Jesus a blow with the palm of his hand, saying: "Answerest thou the high priest so?" Again Jesus made an appeal for justice: "If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?" 'Though he spoke in gentleness, yet he leveled against them a keen legal weapon. If he had done wrong, where were his accusers which the law required? If he had spoken well, why was he treated thus by the officers whose sworn duty was to protect a prisoner? No, it was not to be so. "Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the LESSON DEPARTMENT _ council, sought false witness against Jesus, to put him to death." The time, the place and, in fact, the entire procedure was in direct violation of Jewish law. The Sanhedrin was a judicial body to hear only testimony. As in our own law, Cvery accused person was presumed innocent until proved guilty. In this so-called trial, the judges even sought false witness.
These dis.
Agreed among themselves until even the judge hesitated to condemn.
There was no coherent story, much less corroboration of a witness. The law required that two witnesses must testify against the accused or the case must be dismissed. The judges, however, had already decided that Jesus must be convicted and put to death.
Something must be done quickly as they wanted to take the prisoner before the Roman officials early on the morrow. "At the last came two false witnesses, And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days."
Other witnesses told a dif.
Ferent story: "We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands."
There was a vast dif.
Ference between saying, "I am able to" and "I will." In fact, a study of the text shows that Jesus was speaking of the "temple of his body."
They were seeking evidence against him and if he had threatened to do violence to their sacred temple, that was a serious thing.
Until that moment there was noth. Ing for Jesus to answer and he kept still.
This angered Caiaphas and, against all required procedure, he 555 angrily demanded: "I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God."
There had been no foundation laid for this question. It is plain that the high priest was going to abandon the sedition charge and change to the charge of blasphemy.
Jesus could have consistently disregarded the question as he had been brought before the court on an entirely different charge. However, he made an avowal that, in effect said: "I am what thou hast said."
This was enough. "Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? - behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy.
What think ye? 'They answered and said, He is guilty of death." (Read Matt. 26:60-66. ) This judgment was rendered by an unlawfully convened court on evidence consisting of a volunta statement made by Jesus. The Jewish law provided expressly that one accused of a capital offense could not be convicted on his own testimony unless it was amply supported by two competent witnesses. The decision of the high priest was rendered orally and no record is given of how the others voted, except by saying he was deserving of death.
Even the unanimous verdict in such cases was unlawful, because that indicated that the accused had no friend at the bar of justice. In this case, "...
They all condemned him to be guilty of death" (Mark 14: 64).
Luke tells us that early the next morning the chief priests and scribes came together and led Jesus "into their council."
This may 556 have been an attempt to correct the grievous errors of the night before. No student of jurisprudence will say that it did correct the mistakes of the night trial, even though they went through the form of a second trial—here again the only statements made were affirmations by the prisoner, given voluntarily, with no witnesses to corroborate.
Their first question, "Art thou the Christ?
Tell us," was illegal. The Lord, however, made dignified re ply: "If I tell you, ye will not believe: And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go.
Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God."
Then followed the vital question: "Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. And they said, What need we any further witness? For we ourselves have heard of his own mouth" (Luke 22:66-71).
They put an entirely different meaning to his words because it suited their purpose.
Perhaps nothing further need be said against the trial which was but solemn mockery. The arrest of Jesus was illegal; his preliminary examination was illegal; his indictment was illegal; his trial and conviction were illegal.
Jehovah has been vindicated by every unbiased mind who has studied the case.
Once rejected by his own, Now their king he shall be known. Peter's Denial of His Lord It willl be recalled that at the time of his arrest, Jesus had indicated to the eleven apostles that they should go and not follow him farther that night. However, Peter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 and "at least one other disciple" followed the Master. 'They persuaded the armed guard to let them enter the palace of the high priest and Peter "went in and sat with the servants to see the end." He was recognized by the attendant at the door, who was a young woman. As he sat among the servants, she said unto him: "Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee." This Peter denied and said he did not know Jesus. No doubt, Peter's conscience began to trouble him and he went out on the porch to get away from further detection; but another maid, as soon as she saw him, cried out: "This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth." Again Peter denied knowing the Lord. The third denial came after Peter had left the palace and gone out to sit with others around a fire which had been built in the court.
There some of the men sitting with him accused him of being a disciple of Jesus. Indeed, a kinsman of the man whose ear had been cut with the sword asked him point blank: "Did not I see thee in the garden with him?"
Peter seems to have completely lost his temper and declared: "I know not this man of whom ye speak." "And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord " Immediately thereafter, a cock crowed. "And Peter went out, and wept bitterly" (Matt. 26:69-72, and Luke 22:55-62).
Whatever may have caused the denial by Peter, we know that he soon truly repented. His life of devotion and service amply prove that his repentance was sincere and genuine.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Christ's First Appearance Before Pilate It has already been stated that no Jewish court had the right to inflict the death penalty. Pontius Pilate was at the time of Christ's crucifixion the Roman emperor's deputy over Judea. He had come from his official residence on the shores of the Mediterranean to attend the great Jewish festival in Jerusalem. As soon as their own mock trial was finished, the members of the Sanhedrin led Jesus to the judgment hall of Pilate. Note their inconsistency. 'They would not enter the Roman's palace for fear they might be near leavened bread which, during the feast, would make them "ceremonially unclean." 'They were at the same time eager to shed the blood of their Creator and lawful King. Pilate came out of the palace and inCopyright by Eugene A. Perry 557 quired as to the accusations against Jesus. Even that must have surprised the Jewish rulers as they expected a confirmation of their verdict. Noting their hesitancy, he was about to turn the Savior back for them to try him according to the Jewish code. They reminded Pilate that it was not "lawful" for them to put any man to death. John implies that these rulers not only wanted Roman sanction but also wanted the Romans to do the executing. Jesus had foretold that he would be crucified (John 18:28-32; 12:32). That was the Roman method, while the Jews stoned to death prisoners who were guilty of blasphemy. It will be noted that the Jewish rulers did not accuse Jesus of blasphemy before Pilate. That w ould have been useless to their purpose. There was no such crime in the From a Painting by Munkacsy CHRIST BEFORE PILATE 558
Roman code.
They changed again and accused him of high treason which was a capital offense under the Roman law.
They told Pilate that Jesus claimed to be a king and that would be dangerous to Rome. Of course, he had not been tried for treason before the Sanhedrin. The Lord had spoken no word to Pilate and did not do so until they entered the judgment hall.
Once within the hall, Pilate, without prejudice, asked: "Art thou the King of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew?
Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?" The answer was so eloquent and beautiful that we suggest that John 18:36-37 be read from the Bible in the class.
Pilate was so impressed with the Lord that he announced a verdict of acquittal: "I find in him no fault at all." | The chief priests and others in authority would not accept the verdict.
They fiercely cried: "... He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place" (Luke 23:5). Christ Before Herod The word "Galilee" suggested to Pilate a plan of escape from a decision he did not want to make. Herod, the vassal ruler of that province, was in Jerusalem and Pilate sent the Lord to him. But the Christ would not even speak to the vile creature who had caused the death of John the Baptist.
Herod could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 find nothing to condemn in the Lord and only as a further insult had him arrayed in gorgeous apparel and sent him back to Pilate. Christ Again Before Pilate When Pilate found that Jesus was before him again, he called together the chief priests and rulers and the people and told them that he had already examined the prisoner and the charges of sedition and treason were without foundation. The Roman governor wanted to be fair and just. He knew that the hatred of the Jewish rulers was because of envy and malice.
There was in prison at that time a notorious man by the name of Barabbas. He had been tried regularly and found guilty of sedition and murder.
Pilate knew that it was the custom among the Jews to release at the passover celebration one prisoner whom the people might name. He, therefore, suggested that inasmuch as he had found Jesus innocent that he be released and that Barabbas be put to death. But when the plan was put before the Jewish rulers it was rejected and they urged that the multitude cry out against Pilate's decision. In answer to the question, 'What shall I do then with Jesus? 'They cried, crucify him."
Seeing that they were de termined, Pilate washed his hands before the multitude, "saying, | am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye to it." But he did release Barabbas and turned Jesus over to the soldiers. "Then rose the awful self-condemnatory cry of the covenant people. His blood be on LESSON DEPARTMENT us, and on our children." How terrible has been the fulfillment of their request! Judas Iscariot When Judas Iscariot saw how terribly effective had been the outcome of his treachery, he became wildly remorseful.
Rushing into the presence of the high priests and elders, he implored them to take back the thirty pieces of silver, saying, "I have sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us?... And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, and went and hanged himself." 559
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Discuss the trial of Jesus. Tell why it was so flagrantly illegal. 2. Relate the incident of Peter's denial of the Lord. 3. What was Pilate's first verdict concerning Jesus? 4. What induced him to reverse his decision? References in the Gospels Matt. 14:1; 26:57-75; 27:1, 2, 8, 11, 15-31; 37:3-10. Mark 6:14; 6-20. Luke 9:7, 9; 13:31, 32; 18:32; 22:54-71; 23:2, 3, 4> 5°25. John 1:35, 40; 2:18-22; 11:49-50; 13:23; 18:8, 9, 13, 14, 15-24, 28-32, 39, 40; 19:1-16, 26; 20:2; 21:7, 20, 24. 14:30, 53-72; 15:1, 2, 7. Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 10—Take Ye Heed, Watch and Pray" (Mark 13:33). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, November 7, 1950
Objective: prayer. N these few simple words, "Take ve heed, watch and pray," (Mark 13:33) the Savior admonished four of his chosen apostles. As in those days, so today, we must watch and pray. A consideration of the subject of prayer is appropriate to the Thanksgiving season.
Believing in Christ, we must believe in prayer, for (in his miracles especially) he demonstrated over and over the efficacy of this form of spiritual activity. To bring out the vital power of prayer, and the need for habitual The Master did not tell us to pray occasionally, but enjoined us to "pray always" (Luke 21:36). He set the example in so doing. If our Redeemer, in his perfection, needed the help of constant prayer, how much more do we in our imperfection need it!
Before taking the important step of choosing his twelve apostles, "He went out into a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God" (Luke 6:12).
When im- 560 portant decisions face us, we might well say with his disciples, "Lord, teach us to pray" (Luke 11:1).
After feeding the five thousand, the Savior sent his disciples before him in a ship. "And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone" (Matt. 14:23). In times of weariness or discouragement, prayer can give us increased physical buoyancy, as we withdraw, for a time, from the pressure of the everyday affairs of life and regain our spiritual balance. "When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is im secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly" (Matt. 6:6). Dr. Alexis Carrel, famed the world over for thirty-three years of scientific research in the famous Rockefeller Institute, understood fully the power of prayer. He declared: Prayer is not only worship, but it is the most powerful form of energy that one can generate. The influence of prayer on the human mind and body is as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 demonstrable as that of secreting glands....
Prayer is a force as real as terrestrial gravity. As a physician, I have seen men, after all other therapy had failed, lifted out of disease and melancholy by the serene effort of prayer.
Many individuals, more to be pitied than censured, have no conception of the power of prayer.
They have not experienced the uplift, the solace, and the soul growth that comes to the eternal part of our natures through communion with our Heavenly Father. Elder Richard L.
Evans says: He who has ceased to pray has lost a great friendship, and he who has never prayed has never known the greatest companionship that can come to mortal man—the companionship of man with his Maker (Evans, Richard L., Unto the Hills, page 130). One writer terms prayer "the greatest unused resource in the world today," and another states that if there is to be hope for a better world, "prayer, the basic exercise of the spirit, must be actively practiced in the lives of common men and women." "Take ye heed, watch and pray."
More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of.
Wherefore let thy voice Rise like a fountain for me night and day. (Alfred, Lord Tennyson) LESSON DEPARTMENT 561
Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Color in the Home Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 14, 1950 (Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, chapter 34). OLOR is of vital importance in every phase of home decorating.
From windows, walls, and floors to furniture and accessories, the color in your home speaks boldly of your judgment and taste. No other decorating element so surely reflects your individuality and so definitely influences the charm, beauty, and comfort of your home. The use of color is one of the most challenging of all home decorating problems. It is challenging because, with no variation in the amount of money spent, a home may be dull, monotonous, and uninviting, or it can be a place of beauty, restfulness, and hospitality. It all depends upon individual good judgment and good taste.
While the study of color is a science, still the art of producing beautiful color harmonies in a room is not difficult if a few simple guides are followed. One of the chief reasons for the misuse of color is that many people are afraid of it. In your home do not be afraid of color.
Take full advantage of its magic to express your individuality and preferences. One of the first guides in the use of color is suitability.
Suitability means that color combinations should be selected in accordance with your own tastes and preferences and the needs of your home. The color scheme you decide on should be pleasing, restful, and relaxing to you and to your family, and yet, give you the necessary stimulation and spiritual uplift.
Color should not be used indiscriminately. 'Too many colors in a room produce an effect of confusion, while too few may produce a monotonous and usually dull effect. In your decorating, confine yourself to the use of three, never more than four main colors, and employ these in balanced proportions. An easy guide to remember is to choose one dominant color and use this in approximately fifty per cent of your room, such as on your walls, woodwork, and carpet. A secondary color should have about a thirty per cent proportion.
This could be used in varying light and dark tones on your furniture and draperies.
Then let the remaining twenty per cent be used as accent colors, perhaps on one chair, on lamps, and with accessories. An interesting color scheme is obtained only through the use of light, medium, and dark tones in the same room.
3. Discuss the importance of selecting a color source. Why is it important to decide on all the colors to be used in your room before doing any decorating.
4. Read and discuss chapter 34 in the text, The Complete Book of Sewing, page
232.
0 reams
Nelouise Fishei Judd
Take my youth —
I do not need it
Turn my hair to gray,
But, please.
Never, never,
Take my dreams away!

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Lesson ]0-Paraciise Regained and Samson Agonistes
Elder Biiant S. Jacobs
For Tuesday, November 21, 1950
TT is the budding scientific impulse within all of us which loves order, arrangement, classification.
It is such a desire which impels us to classify each other, particularly when we are children and almost entirely frank. **Slim," ''Red," and "Fatty" are common to every community. When we are older, oftentimes we type each other by a dominant trait or accomplishment. ''Oh,
I know him; he used to lead the choir," is a classification simple to make, easy to recall, but rarely a fair representation of the essential qualities comprising a person's character.
Thus it has been with John Milton. So ready are we to characterize the whole by examining only a part, that frequently Milton's classification begins and ends with the acknowledgment that he wrote
Paradise Lost. Rarely do we stop to realize that, if Milton had never written his "great" work, the two long poems he wrote after Paradise
Lost still would have assured him a place among the foremost writers of English literature.
Paradise Regained (not found in our text) has been defined as "Milton's most neglected great poem."
Because the form of its title so obviously parallels or balances that of the magnificent, epical Paiadise
Lost, Paradise Regained might logi-
JOHN MILTON cally be expected to correspond to the first great epic in brilliance, tone, and style, as well as in subject matter. When, instead, the supposed sequel is found to be subdued in tone, written in unspectacular poetic lines, and depicting hardly any action before it reaches a foregone conclusion, it is temptingly easy to classify it as an attempt at another epic in the grand manner, but one which should never have been made by a genius whose powers during his declining years were withering and wan.

564
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1950
Although from its publication, in 1671, Paradise Regained popularly has been remembered for its failure to be memorable, Milton, according to his nephew, "could not bear with patience any such thing" as even a suggestion that it was an inferior work. Such a statement might well be identified as that of a blind and touchy old gentleman who, having outlived defeat to survive in a world of loneliness and neglect, hoped to protect his creation from the same cruel indifference which he had known so well. This might be true in part, but a small part. Actually, in the years following Paradise Lost
Milton's mind and style matured and ripened, as is proved unquestionably by the power and flawless structure of Samson Agonistes^ published as a companion-piece to Paradise Regained, and surely written after it. If, then, his critical and creative powers were growing anything but dim, why should he himself have defended Paradise Regained with such vehemence? Perhaps the trouble lies with his readers, who tried unsuccessfully to force this round work into the square hole labeled "Epic."
Paradise Regained is a semi-dramatic poem portraying the temptations of Christ by Satan during his forty-day fast in the wilderness.
While it contains a very few Homeric similes, and occasionally uses the formal epic device to designate the speaker, it has no other epic machinery. The scene is bare; the language is simple and conversational, yet delicate and subtle. Its poetic quality in and of itself is high, worthy of the mature Milton. Through the successive temptations, Christ's manly courage and will power become increasingly evident; Satan is fawning, cunning, and persistent, as he offers Christ "a table richly spread," wealth, political power, and, finally, all the wisdom and philosophical supremacy of Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts
And eloquence. . . .
With Christ as the supreme example, Milton built Paradise Regained to best express the great truth that man is ready to conquer in the outer world of action only when he has first learned to rule his own will and heart; then he has achieved the "paradise within."
Yet he who reigns within himself, and rules
Passions, Desires, and Fears, is more a King;
Which every wise and virtuous man attains:
And who attains not, ill aspires to rule
Cities of men, or head-strong multitudes,
Subject himself to anarchy within
Or lawless passions in him, which he serves.
But to guide nations in the way of truth
By saving Doctrine, and from error lead
To know, and, knowing, worship God aright,
Is yet more Kingly. This attracts the soul.
Governs the inner man, the nobler part. ...
Paradise Regained, II, 466-477
Because Paradise Regained has a unity of tone and style, far surpassing that of Paradise Lost, and because its force is accumulative, as clever Satan and unimpeachable
Christ engage in brilliant logical combat, the poem does not contain many short passages which are quotable when lifted from the text. The following, for example, can well stand by itself, but in lifting it from

LESSON DEPARTMENT
565 context, we violate Milton's meaning in the larger passage.
... who reads
Incessantly, and to his reading brings not A spirit and judgment equal or superior .. .
Uncertain and unsettl'd still remains,
Deep-versed in books and shallow in himself
Paradise Regained, IV, 322-327
But, for those who love the exalted, high-singing note of true poetry Paradise Regained is a substantially rewarding experience.
Samson Agonistes
The title of this versified play
(which was never intended for performance) means ''Samson's Agony"; originally Milton thought of using the title, ''Samson, the Wrestler." In Samson Agonistes
(ag o nis' tez) he reveals most intensely his immediate personal convictions. Herein might well be a nearly complete cross-section of his mature mind, re-created in artistic form.
What some have called his most flawless work of art, Samson Agonistes was written in close imitation of the classical Greek dramas of Aeschylus (es' ki lus), Sophocles,
(sof o klez), and Euripides (u rip' i dez), "the three tragic poets unequalled yet by any." It is probable that he chose this form of expression for two reasons: first, he admired the rigorous, precise form which could be achieved only by honoring strictly the classical unities of time, place, and theme. {Samson
Agonistes, therefore, depicts only a few hours in Samson's life, occurs in one place, and is concerned with one main idea.) Second, by obeying such an exacting formula, and thus focusing intensely for a short time on a small area, he could best create the great surge of tragic power it was his purpose to achieve.
So successfully does he make the devices of Greek tragedy entirely his own, that his "Greek" drama, written in English, achieves a mood and tone and strength to be compared favorably with the original
Greek dramas when translated into
Enghsh. Instead of dividing his play formally into acts, he uses a chorus, or a group of Danite spectators, to provide us with vital details of Samson's past, to interpret the sequence of the action, or to generalize on the tragic sorrows of human existence. These chantings, spoken in a rhythm different from that in which the main action is stated, are interspersed between more intense passages, and thereby set them off. Often in his dialogue,
Milton uses another classical device: alternate speeches which are very short, and parallel in form; he also uses the question-and-answer method of the riddle. Prominent as well is his use of irony, the powerful classical device of saying precisely the opposite of what one intends. The dignified avoidance of any violent action on the stage is Grecian, as is the formula "all is best," which occurs at the end of the play.
As always, Milton's language is filled with beauty and music; it is also polished and terse. Herein are no false moves. Every stroke counts.
The meter is bold and unrestrained; the style, rugged, and varied at will.
But the real beauty of Samson
Agonistes comes from within. It is the bare, direct statement of a

566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1950 noble theme which causes this work the events which brought him to to sing within us as great Hterature serene maturity, he succeeded most must do. Nowhere does Milton admirably. On the other hand, this write more magnificently. play is probably Milton's most sub-
The chief emphasis in Paradise jective writing; almost as plausibly
Regained is on the need for attain- his goal might have been first to ing inner moral integrity; action is point out his own cruel suffering, to be distrusted. In Samson Agonis- caused by his blindness, out of tes, however, the hero, like Christ which he now rose to defy to the in Paradise Regained^ has achieved end his triumphant enemies, and As all of us know from the story *^ integrity, humility, and faith, in Judges 13-17, Samson's life was jVote to Teachers: To come alive, one of temptation, as is the play Samson Agonistes needs to be Samson Agonistes. But in Milton's read aloud, both in enriching your version, Dalila is not the supreme own insight and in conveying it to temptation. Rather it is the temp- your group. Read as widely from the tation for Samson to blame God, following and from the play itself and not his own weaknesses, for his as time will permit: suffering. It is the temptation to compromise with his conscience, Samson's opening lines, which, either by yielding to sensuality (Da- from his words to his guide. (1-3), lila), to the temptation to wield through his overwhelming condemhis brute strength for its own sake natio