[Literature: "Paradise Regained" and "Samson Agonistes" by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Lesson 10—Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 21, 1950 ig is the budding scientific impulse within all of us which loves order, arrangement, classification. It is such a desire which impels us to classify each other, particularly when we are children and almost entirely frank. "Slim," "Red," and "Fatty" are common to every community. When we are older, oftentimes we type each other by a dominant trait or accomplishment. "Oh, I know him; he used to lead the choir," is a classification simple to make, easy to recall, but rarely a fair representation of the essential qualities comprising a _ person's character. | Thus it has been with John Milton. So ready are we to characterize the whole by examining only a part, that frequently Milton's classification begins and ends with the acknowledgment that he wrote Paradise Lost. Rarely do we stop to realize that, if Milton had never written his "great" work, the two long poems he wrote after Paradise Lost still would have assured him a place among the foremost writers of English literature. Paradise Regained (not found in our text) has been defined as "Milton's most neglected great poem." Because the form of its title so obviously parallels or balances that of the magnificent, epical Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained might logiJOHN MILTON cally be expected to correspond to the first great epic in brilliance, tone, and style, as well as in subject matter. When, instead, the supposed sequel is found to be subdued in tone, written in unspectacular poetic lines, and depicting hardly any action before it reaches a foregone conclusion, it is temptingly easy to classify it as an attempt at another epic in the grand manner, but one which should never have been made by a genius whose powers during his declining years were withering and wan. 564
Although from its publication, in 1671, Paradise Regained popularly has been remembered for its failure to be memorable, Milton, according to his nephew, "could not bear with patience any such thing" as even a suggestion that it was an inferior work. Such a statement might well be identified as that of a blind and touchy old gentleman who, having outlived defeat to survive in a world of loneliness and neglect, hoped to protect his creation from the same cruel indifference which he had known so well. This might be true in part, but a small part. Actually, in the years following Paradise Lost Milton's mind and style matured and ripened, as is proved unquestionably by the power and flawless structure of Samson Agonistes, published as a companion-piece to Paradise Regained, and surely written after it. If, then, his critical and creative powers were growing anything but dim, why should he himself have defended Paradise Regained with such vehemence? Perhaps the trouble lies with his readers, who tried unsuccessfully to force this round work into the square hole labeled "Epic." Paradise Regained is a semi-dramatic poem portraying the temptations of Christ by Satan during his forty-day fast in the wilderness. While it contains a very few Homeric similes, and occasionally uses the formal epic device to designate the speaker, it has no other epic machinery. 'The scene is bare; the language is simple and conversational, yet delicate and subtle. Its poetic quality in and of itself is high, worthy of the mature Milton. Through the successive temptations, Christ's  manly courage and will power become increasingly evident; Satan is fawning, cunning, and persistent, as he offers Christ "a table richly spread," wealth, political power, and, finally, all the wisdom and philosophical supremacy of Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts And eloquence.... With Christ as the supreme example, Milton built Paradise Regained to best express the great truth that man is ready to conquer in the outer world of action only when he has first learned to rule his own will and heart; then he has achieved the "paradise within." Yet he who reigns within himself, and rules Passions, Desires, and Fears, is more a King; Which every wise and virtuous man attains: And who attains not, ill aspires to rule Cities of men, or head-strong multitudes, Subject himself to anarchy within Or lawless passions in him, which hie Serves. But to guide nations in the way of truth By saving Doctrine, and from error lead To know, and, knowing, worship God aright, Is yet more Kingly. This attracts the soul, Governs the inner man, the nobler part. Paradise Regained, II, 466-477
Because Paradise Regained has a unity of tone and style, far surpassing that of Paradise Lost, and because its force is accumulative, as clever Satan and unimpeachable Christ engage in brilliant logical combat, the poem does not contain many short passages which are quotable when lifted from the text. The following, for example, can well stand by itself, but in lifting it from LESSON DEPARTMENT context, we violate Milton's meaning in the larger passage.... Who reads Incessantly, and to his reading brings not A spirit and judgment equal or superior Uncertain and unsettl'd still remains, Deep-versed in books and shallow in himSelf, Paradise Regained, IV, 322-327
But, for those who love the exalted, high-singing note of true poetry Paradise Regained is a substantially rewarding experience. Samson Agonistes The title of this versified play (which was never intended for performance) means "Samson's Ag- _ ony"; originally Milton thought of using the title, "Samson, the Wrestler." In Samson Agonistes (ag o nis' tez) he reveals most intensely his immediate personal convictions.
Herein might well be a nearly complete cross-section of his mature mind, re-created in artistic form.
What some have called his most flawless work of art, Samson Agonistes was written in close imitation of the classical Greek dramas _ of Aeschylus (es' ki lus), Sophocles, (sof' o klez), and Euripides (u rip' i dez), "the three tragic poets unequalled yet by any." It is probable that he chose this form of expression for two reasons: first, he admired the rigorous, precise form which could be achieved only by honoring strictly the classical unities of time, place, and theme. (Samson Agonistes, therefore, depicts only a few hours in Samson's life, occurs in one place, and is concerned with one main idea.) Second, by obey- 565 ing such an exacting formula, and thus focusing intensely for a short time on a small area, he could best create the great surge of tragic power it was his purpose to achieve. So successfully does he make the devices of Greek tragedy entirely his own, that his "Greek" drama, written in English, achieves a mood and tone and strength to be compared favorably with the original Greek dramas when translated into English.
Instead of dividing his play formally into acts, he uses a chorus, or a group of Danite spectators, to provide us with vital details of Samson's past, to interpret the sequence of the action, or to generalize on the tragic sorrows of human existence. 'These chantings, spoken in a rhythm different from that in which the main action is stated, are interspersed between more intense passages, and thereby set them off.
Often in his dialogue, Milton uses another classical device: alternate speeches which are very short, and parallel in form; he also uses the question-and-answer method of the riddle.
Prominent as well is his use of irony, the powerful classical device of saying precisely the opposite of what one intends. The dignified avoidance of any violent action on the stage is Grecian, as is the formula "all is best," which occurs at the end of the play. As always, Milton's language is filled with beauty and music; it is also polished and terse.
Herein are no false moves.
Every stroke counts. The meter is bold and unrestrained; the style, rugged, and varied at will. But the real beauty of Samson Agonistes comes from within. It is the bare, direct statement of a 566 noble theme which causes this work to sing within us as great literature must do.
Nowhere does Milton write more magnificently. The chief emphasis in Paradise Regained is on the need for attaining inner moral integrity; action is to be distrusted. In Samson Agonistes, however, the hero, like Christ in Paradise Regained, has achieved the vital "paradise within," but this is preliminary to Samson's great deed. Here, then, action is central. Samson's death is tragic in the true Grecian sense of the word, for in his death-act he proves himself true to his convictions and his destiny. No longer is he eligible to be tempted by whatever tantalizing pleasures the world might offer. _ As all of us know from the story in Judges 13-17, Samson's life was one of temptation, as is the play Samson Agonistes. But in Milton's version, Dalila is not the supreme temptation.
Rather it is the temptation for Samson to blame God, and not his own weaknesses, for his suffering. It is the temptation to compromise with his conscience, either by yielding to sensuality (Dalila), to the temptation to wield his brute strength for its own sake (Harapha) (footnote page 694 of text), or to capitulate shamefully to the enemy as suggested by his weak father, Manoa. Milton's Samson Agonistes is entirely objective, since every thought and happening might well have occurred to the actual Samson. If Milton's goal was to illumine and enlarge the Biblical text by giving us in enriching detail his own insight into Samson's character and  the events which brought him to serene maturity, he succeeded most admirably. On the other hand, this play is probably Milton's most subjective writing; almost as plausibly his goal might have been first to point out his own cruel suffering, caused by his blindness, out of which he now rose to defy to the end his triumphant enemies, and to predict their pending destruction. If Samson Agonistes is to yield up its true significance, however, it should be read, neither as a record of a particular Samson or a particular Milton, but as an artistically powerful record of the universal human conflict between sin, pride, and remorse, as opposed to integrity, humility, and faith.
Note to Teachers: To come alive, Samson Agonistes needs to be read aloud, both in enriching your own insight and in conveying it to your group.
Read as widely from the following and from the play itself as time will permit: Samson's opening lines, which, from his words to his guide. (1-3), through his overwhelming condemnation of his own physical and spiritual blindness (66-110), at once reveal his consuming mental anguish. Lines 39-42 are notable, not only for their specific details about Samson's situation, but also for the bitter irony which characterizes Samson's words both here and throughout the first half of the play. Milton's skillful use of the Chorus to further deepen the tragedy ls seen in their first lines, particularly 115-126.
LESSON DEPARTMENT After Samson and Chorus review his life and destiny, Samson condemns corrupt nations who "love bondage more than liberty' and who deny the great souls sent to liberate them (268-276). Manoa enters, to blame both destiny and his own son, but in the magnificent reply "Appoint not heavenly disposition, father." (373-419), Samson blames only himself, and defines true slavery. Samson desires not ransom, but only his own just punishment (488 ff.). He then confesses his former pride, finds his situation hopeless, and asks that death be speedy (to 650). The Chorus rebukes God for seeming indifference to faithful and unfaithful alike, and Dalila's approach is described (to 724). Impelled by an aloof curiosity, she tries all her wiles to see which will take effect. Samson speaks his scathing contempt of her and finally, "At distance I forgive thee; go with that" (line 954), she is dismissed. Here is a scene of intellectual and emotional intensity rare even in great literature. 7
Harapha comes to taunt the filthy, vile-smelling Samson into attempting physical attack, but admirably Samson controls himself, knowing his strength to be not in his body, but "in the Living God" (1140). The Chorus predicts that the spurned Harapha will stir up further trouble, then sings the beautiful. Chorus which recognizes the new invincibility Samson has achis play? 567 quired by resisting all his tempters (1268 ff). The officer soon summons Samson to entertain his conquerors, but he refuses (to 1333). Suddenly realizing that he has at last achieved peace with his conscience, he feels a new rousing emotion within himself, then suddenly decides to go to his enemies to destroy them. Thus he vindicates his past sins and achieves integrity in death. Manoa, aided by the Chorus, worries about what will happen to his son, then dreams romantically of Samson's eventual liberation, even of a miraculous restoration of his sight. Suddenly a noise "tears the sky," there is a "universal groan," and the messenger comes to report the destruction of the Philistines and the death of Samson. Manoa praises his nobility, and the Chorus strikes the final note, "All is best." Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss various reasons why Paradise Regained has been called '"'Milton's most neglected poem." 2. Why did Milton write Samson Agonistes in the severe form of the strict Greek tragedy? Did such a narrow limitation intensify the drama and tragedy of If so, why? 3. The achievement of inner moral integrity is the theme of Paradise Regained. What is the theme of Samson Agonistes? Does Milton believe finally in action only? Text, page 677. 4. Discuss the play: (1) comparing it with the life story of Samson as recorded in the Bible; (2) as the self-reve- " lation of John Milton. 
568 
Sosial Science—The Progress of Man Part The Lesson of History Lesson 2—The First Earth Government Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text, The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 2; 6: pp. 79-80; 5: pp. 66-68; 3: pp. 39-40.) For Tuesday, November 28, 1950
Objective: To show that for the benefit of Adam and his posterity, God established upon the earth a perfect system of government of patriarchal pattern.