[Where Love Abideth by Alice Whitson Norton]

Where Love Abideth Alice Whitson Norton N the corner of Gay Street and Mulberry Avenue, as strangely out of place as a bird of paradise on the public market of any thriving city, was a flower shop. A small affair it was, but so bright were its windows, so spotless the inside, and so genial were the elderly couple that ran it, that one thought of the little shop in big proportions. It had caught my attention the first time I had passed by on a small, dinky streetcar that ran out on Gay Street to a substantial residential district, and somehow no matter how often passed, I rarely failed to cast a glance at the little shop. One day when I happened to be driving in, I stopped and bought a few flowers from the old couple running the place, and after that I was a frequent customer. On that first day I learned the elderly couple were depending on that little shop for a living, and earning a living at their age was not such an easy task when one grows one's own flowers.
They hadn't intended this to happen when the little shop and the bright garden were first started. Oh, no!
When the shop and garden were started there had been two sturdy boys with willing hands to do the manual labor of growing. 'Then came World War I and the sturdy young men went bravely marching off, each with a carnation in his buttonhole—and that was the picture the parents held of their sons.
When their names appeared  among the missing after a bloody battle on the Argonne front, the owners of the small shop found comfort for their wounded hearts in the earth that produced the blossoms and the little shop through which they marketed their wares.
They made no outcry against fate, nor did they go about with long, sad faces.
Their loyal sons had gone West in a great cause and the shop owners must carry on. For years they were up with the dawn, planting and hoeing, clipping and arranging the bright bouquets for the little shop; and far into the night a light could be seen moving over the fertile garden plot back of the small shop. But there came a day when I missed the old couple, and. Curiosity, mixed with genuine interest, prompted me to stop for flowers when I really didn't need them. The "Missus" was sick, a new keeper told me—terribly sick.
There were no funds to hire a nurse, so the old man had stayed at home to look after her, and this new man had taken over the shop. As time went by the little shop began to lose its brightness; the windows became dingy, the flowers wilted in their holders, and the customers in the habit of dropping by for their fresh bouquets began buying elsewhere, and finally one morning I looked out of the trolley window and discovered the door was closed, and on it a placard, "For Rent." WHERE LOVE ABIDETH HAT rent sign stirred my heart and set my feet in action, and a few hours later I was knocking on the door of the little house in front of a sadly neglected flower garden several blocks from the little shop. I knew by old Tolly's face that things were in a bad way when he opened the door for me, but he smiled as bravely as a soldier under fire. "Don't tell her," he warned, with a motion toward the room housing his invalid wife, "that the shop is closed. It would break her heart— and I couldn't stand that—" I nodded an agreement and followed the man into a dark room. "This is not my idea of living, Miss Ellen,' Mrs. 'Tolly murmured faintly, "but I have been very ill with fever and it's settled in my eyes. I may become blind—and—" her voice faltered slightly, "I—may never walk again." "Oh, but she speaks so foolish," chuckled the old man. "It is only a matter of time before she will see and walk again, and why.
Should she worry, with the little flower shop moving along so fine?" "She shouldn't worry," I comforted, pondering in my heart at the loyalty of the aged man. "Somehow, some way," he continued, "old Tolly will manage to grow and sell flowers, and care for the Missus." I felt a calloused hand clasp mine and looked down upon the tightly bandaged eyes of Tolly's wife. ~"Where love abjdeth, Miss Ellen," she said softly, "faith can work miracles. My husband has always been like that. His faith is great, and his love is wonderful. 523
Fifty years," she went on, "we have lived together, working side by side, in unity of thought and purpose— now—I am sick and he is carrying the whole burden." "A man," I managed to say, "is supposed to be the stronger of the species, and I am sure Mr.
Tolly will find a way to carry on and provide for you." "Only with flowers," she answered calmly, "can my Tolly earn a decent living for us, and I'm so glad he still has the little shop. Be sure to keep the windows bright, Tolly," she added whimsically. A few weeks later I learned that Mrs. 'Tolly would never walk again, © but her eyesight would be restored.
That was something we had scarcely hoped for. But not walking presented another problem—a wheel chair must be provided, but how? "You cannot know the sorrow in my heart, Miss Ellen," old Tolly whispered, when this discovery was made, "that I am unable to buy the chair. She doesn't dream our funds are gone and the little shop is closed.
What shall I do?' "It isn't what you shall do, Mr. Tolley," I answered, "but what can you do?" "I once made a living selling pencils and shoestrings on the street," he answered with a faint smile. 'But she must never know, Miss Ellen, maybe I can do that again. By leaving home early and coming in late she will think I am but working all the harder with my flowers, see?" "Yes," I said. "I see something I've never seen before—the endurance of true love." 524 FTER that I visited the little house often and listened with genuine joy to the stories Mrs.
Tolly told of her husband's progress in the flower shop alone. "Always," she said, "he brings me a bright flower when he comes in at night, and since he is running the garden alone he is growing many wonderful new species."
That he was buying these wonderful new species with money he had earned from selling pencils and shoestrings I never breathed. It was Tolly's way, not mine, of keeping his life partner happy. By and by the lovely wheel chair became a reality and in a remarkably short time Mrs. 'Tolly was moving about the place with surprising speed. And what she learned to do from that wheel chair would put to shame many a normal woman's effort. The little house was restored to its cheery atmosphere, dust gave way to shining corners and polished furniture; and a sense of quietude and peace enveloped the place to such a degree that I found myself lingering with every visit. Strange, spicy odors often filled the air when I entered the door, and I learned the invalid was at her old tricks of preparing delightful dishes for her household. "She makes them out of almost nothing,' the man informed me, when I sniffed the rich aroma escaping from a hot spice cake. "But he brings in the nothing I demand to make the spice cake out of,' the woman interrupted, "and that is why my heart sings so happily—to think my Tolly can grow and sell flowers," she added thoughtfully, "just as if I were right there RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 helping all the time! It gives me courage to undertake anything, Miss Ellen." A sudden demand for my presence in the East interrupted my little visits for a period of three months, but the first opportunity that came after I returned home to pay a visit to the invalid found me knocking on her door. That Tolly had kept his secret and was providing her with the necessities of life I felt assured at first glimpse of the room.
Fresh flowers filled the vases over the mantel and on the living room table, while the most heavenly odors imaginable penetrated the atmosphere. "What are you up to now?" I inquired after our visit was over. "You wouldn't think I could sit down and leave my Tolly the whole burden, Miss Ellen?" she asked softly. "T don't understand," I countered. "Perhaps you were in the dark, too, Miss Ellen," she whispered softly, "but I found out all by myself that Tolly had lost the shop and the flower garden and was earning a living for me by peddling shoestrings and pencils, and."
Suddenly her face lighted with a glorious smile and her hand closed over mine. "I, too, can play a game, Miss Ellen," she whispered eagerly. "T never let Tolly know I had discovered our loss, but just to pass the time away and make the days shorter when he must be away from home, I make the little spice cakes you smell and sell them through the back door."
Reaching for a little blue-flowered bowl under the edge of the pantry WHERE LOVE ABIDETH him enter a florist shop and a Strange emotion filled My soul. At last, eS ee light Song Lizabeth Wall Let all the noises of night be stilled.
Nothing must Waken my elfin-child, Sleeping where showers of stars have spilled, Nothing must Waken my elfin-child, She who lies curled like a slim, brown leaf, Hush, little night birds and wandering winds, Let all your songs be soft and brief. Hush, little night birds and wandering winds, Turn all your songs into lullabies, Nothing must Wwaken my elfin-child Till the morning kisses her shadowed eyes, R enascenc e Marian Schroder Crothers Grieve not, when I am gone, That I no more shall hear On some bright, cloudless day, The lark's song, crystal clear. My heart, temembering The lovely song he sings, Will joyously awake In some eternal spring.
Shings fo — ber Eleanor W. Schow Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" PRIDE, HOW SHALL WE DEFINE IT: In my opinion dignity and selfrespect belong to the Deity. Did not Jesus say, "Be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect?"' In this we learn that God is our Father. Accordingly, those who believe this and obey his commandments will obtain his spirit which when it is obtained they will find it gives them dignity and self-respect, for these are attributes of the Deity and not pride as one may suppose.
Vanity and self-conceit are dangerous properties. Why should one become vain because he has arrived at some attainment which another has not. He may fill another position the first is not capable of filling —Mary AN INTERESTING TIME: In company with Mrs. Jane S. Richards, First Counselor to Mrs, Zina D. H. Young, we left on Thursday, August 7 to visit the sisters in Iron County and attend Conference in that Stake. We reached Cedar City Friday evening after a drive of fifty-five miles.
Saturday we met with the Relief Society of Cedar. We met with the Relief Society of Beaver Stake and there were about as many men as women present. We noticed in the audience Elders Daniel Tyler, Wm. Fotheringham, Benjamin Bennett and other prominent brethren, among them Brother Shepherd an old-time Elder in Israel. 'Tuesday morning we left Beaver and met with the Relief Society at Minersville. We saw Mrs. Elizabeth Gilbert, one of the oldest members of the Church, the widow of Sidney Gilbert prominent in the days of Kirtland and also in the persecutions of the Church in Missouri. Mrs.
Gilbert has just passed her ninetieth birthday Aug. 7, she is not feeble as one might expect, she talks well, told us she was baptized into the Church in 1830 and had never been reproved or brought before the teachers or authorities in all those sixty years.
After the meeting in Minersville we turned our faces homeward. It is exceedingly pleasant and interesting to travel among the people and see them in their homes and assemblies. The Relief Society and other organizations are doing great good in the midst of the Saints wherever they are located. SUPPLICATION Lord thou who see'st all my heart, And know'st my every thought: Help me to do thy holy will And serve Thee as I ought. And when my path seems dark and wild, And hope burns low within; Look down upon Thine erring child, And keep my heart from sin. —Charity DEFINITION OF POLITICAL ECONOMY: There is no wealth but life. Life, including all its powers of love, of joy and admiration.
That country is the richest which nourishes the greatest number of noble and happy human beings; that man is the richest who, having perfected the function of his own life to the utmost, has also the wisest helpful influence, both personal and by means of his possessions, over the lives of others. A strange political economy founded on self-interest being the fulfillment of that which once brought schism into the policy of angels and ruin into the economy of heaven."—Ruskin Page 526 | wet E lst of this year, Mabel Young Sanborn, last living child of President Brigham Young, unveiled the statue of her father during impressive ceremonies in Statuary Hall, Washington, D. C.
This beautiful piece of work, created by Mahonri Young, grandson of Brigham Young, now takes its place among the statues of other great figures of American history. BBIE S. YOUNG is the only living daughter-in-law of President Brigham Young.
Married to Brigham Young, Jr., she was left a widow with seven children at the age of thirty-three. Now eighty, she still does beautiful needlework and is writing an autobiography and a biography of her grandparents. ARGARET CHASE SMITH, our Nation's only woman senator, recently pleaded the supreme need for a high sense of honor and justice, and a deep insight into our country's needs to transcend party loyalties.
There is talk of Senator Smith's being nominated as vicepresident of the United States. Much-enjoyed Latter-day Saint author, Merling Dennis Clyde, died last May. For many years she was a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine. Her poetry is parWoman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon ticularly uplifting and inspirational in tone. INNER of the Frank W. Darling Memorial Prize ($50) for a single sonnet, sponsored by the Poetry Society of Virginia, is our own Eva Willes Wangsgaard of Ogden, with her offering "No Barren Bough." | BiLLEN ROMNEY SCHOFIELD, eighty-six, recently died in Los Angeles.
Daughter of Vilate Ellen Romney and Bishop George Romney, Sister Schofield was active in Church work, particularly Relief Society, until her death, and left behind her a host of friends. HE general board has been happy to learn that the Female Samaritan Association, with aims very much like those of the Relief Society, has celebrated its one hundred and twenty-second birthday, having been organized in Portland, Maine, March 4, 1828. It is still active in spiritual and physical charities. So far as is known the Latter-day Saint Relief Society, organized in 1842, is the oldest women's organization of national and _international scope that has persisted. If anyone knows anything to the contrary, the general board would be glad to be given this information. Page 527 Q-> EDITORIAL ory 
VOL. 37 AUGUST 1950
Work is a Blessing "Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness."' HERE is a dangerous wave of thinking in our world today which regards work as punishment, as an evil to be avoided. The present tendency seems to be the desire to avoid work, to seek continually for shorter hours, fewer work days, easier tasks, less responsibility—all of these so-called "benefits" to be accompanied by higher compensation. The substance of the matter seems to be a philosophy of giving less and receiving more—of gaining something for nothing. This is a law of 'diminishing returns, a negative and a destructive philosophy. It is the philosophy of the destroyer—not the faith of the builder. Many rich rewards are promised by people who seem to think that wealth and happiness can _ be achieved without effort. We are told that in the perfect society very little work will be necessary. "The necessity of toil is a superstition,' some social planners would have us believe. "That man is expected to work for a living is an absurdity in this age. We must abandon the superstition of the morality of toil and the nonsense of trying to earn a living." Latter-day Saints, as well as other people all over the world, are being subjected to this type of philosophy, and some of them are giving crePage 528 —Thomas Carlyle dence to beliefs that are entirely alien to the teachings of the gospel. According to our doctrine, no earthly kingdom and no heavenly kingdom, can be built without sustained and noble effort. No individual can achieve earthly development or salvation in heaven without work. Rather than seeking to avoid labor, we should seek out the tasks which are commensurate with our strength and our ability, and we should seek even that work which is beyond our present capabilities that we may grow and become "rich in good works." From the very beginning of the Church we have been instructed in the gospel of work. Our communities were built and our valleys made fruitful by the labor of the hands of our forefathers and we shall ourselves become strong and happy only by our own efforts. Brigham Young explained this fundamental belief in simple words of great power: This people are increasing in the wis: dom which cometh from God, and their power to organize the crude elements... Into the necessities of life is in ratio to their increase of intelligence and application of labor.... I do not look for power from the heavens that will produce for us wool, cloth, iron, food, or anything we need, without being made with hands. We should understand what is required of us to sustain ourselves (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 262).
EDITORIAL We must all be as strong and as self-supporting as we can be, or there will occur a great disintegration of society caused by the dependence of too many people upon the few who have maintained their integrity through the use of their intelligence and their ability and desire to work. It is evident all around us that some people are cartying a great load of responsibility while others are not even doing their own share. 529
The great commandment which was given to our first parents has never been withdrawn, and its application is of equal force in this our time: And it came to pass that Adam began to till the earth... And to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow, as the Lord had commanded him. And Eve, also, his wife, did labor with him'' (Peail of Great Price, Moses 5:1). —V. P. C.
Centennials for 1950 HIS important milestone in the middle of the twentieth century marks the one hundredth anniversary of many events in Church history.
Several mission centennials are being commemorated this year, celebrating the carrying of the gospel to those far countries, honoring the memories of the first missionaries and the saints who have since become members of the Church. EK NE hundred years ago, on June 14, 1850, the Northland was opened as a mission by the apostle, Erastus Snow, accompanied by Elders John E.
Forsgren and George P. Dykes. Elder Peter O.
Hansen was already laboring among his relatives and friends in Scandinavia, and thus began the marvelous work which, over the years, has resulted in bringing much strength to the Church. When Elder John E.
Forsgren baptized his brother Peter near Gefle, Sweden, in July 1850, the first of thousands of converts accepted the gospel. Hans F. Petersen, the first missionary to Norway, arrived in that country in September 1851. A 1950 survey of 681 wards of the Church reveals that forty-four per cent of the membership was found to be of Scandinavian or part Scandinavian descent.
From these loyal and gifted people have come many of our ablest and most dependable workers in the wards and branches of the Church. In June i950, Elder John A.
Widtsoe sailed from New York City on his way to attend mission centennial celebrations in Copenhagen, Stockholm, and Oslo. * *K T' the small seaport town of Boulogne-sur-Mer in northern France, three Latter-day Saint missionaries arrived on June 18, 1850.
They were John 'Taylor, who was later to become President of the Church, and his companions, Elders Curtis E.
Bolton and William Howells. 'They were joined a few days later by Elder John Pack.
Many times during the century, work in this mission was interrupted and many obstacles blocked the path of the missionaries, but, in 1912, the French Mission was formally organ- 530 ized by President Rudger Clawson of the European Mission. In the ensuing years chapels were built, the mission paper, l'Etoile was printed, and considerable progress has been made. Xk k & mission to the Hawaiian Islands was established in December of 1950, when ten men, Hiram Clark, Thomas Whittle, H. W. Bigler, Thomas Morris, John Dixon, 'William Farrer, James Hawkins, Hiram Blackwell, George QO. Cannon, and Thomas Keeler arrived in Honolulu. The first branch was organized at Kulu on the Island of Maui by Elder George OQ.
Cannon in 1851. Elder Cannon translated the Book of Mormon into the Hawaiian language. Also, in 1851, two Latter-day Saint women accompanied their husbands to the islands.
They were Mrs. Philip B.
Lewis and Mrs. Francis A. Hammond. Later, Mrs. John S.
Woodbury joined her husband in Hawaii.
This mission has been continuous and one of the most successful in the Church. As Elder Cannon so well expressed it, the spirit of the gospel was carried with strength and conviction to the islands of the sea: My prayer was that the time might speedily come when all should know the Lord, and when His knowledge should cover the earth as the waters covered the deep; and I believed in uniting works and faith. * oe N this same eventful year of 1850 missionaries began to preach the gospel in several other countries. A small branch was organized in Dublin, Ireland, by Elder Edward Sutherland. Lorenzo Snow, an apostle, at that time, accompanied by EldRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 ers Joseph Toronto and Thomas B. H. Stenhouse, arrived in Genoa, Italy, in June, and began missionary work. Thomas B. Stenhouse, later in the year, was ordained to open the Swiss mission and, in December, he began to preach the gospel in Geneva. Jabez Woodard, who arrived in Italy in September, was called in November to preside over mission activities in that country. * Ke pss 15, 1950, was a memorable day for the Church paper, The Deseret News, which on that day celebrated the completion of a century of publication.
Beginning its work of inspiring, educating, and informing the people only three years after the arrival of the pioneers in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, this paper has accurately and vividly recorded the growth of a people and the establishment of a commonwealth in the valleys of the mountains; it has recorded, also, the history of the spreading of the gospel to the far corners of the earth and the gathering of many saints to the promised valleys. The News, while looking backward with pride on its outstanding achievements, is well aware of its responsibility to the future. The Centennial editorial presents a challenging preview: The century to come opens a vista of tremendously augmented power.... The 'proper use of that power—be it atomic, electrical, political, or spiritual—is man's responsibility. Man's wisdom in_ using increased power...
Will determine the shape of the century to come. In its | second century, the Deseret News proposes to continue its devotion to the tried and true principles: TRUTH AND LIBERTY.
EDITORIAL MONG other historical events important to Latter-day Saints in the year 1850 was the settlement of Lehi, American Fork, Pleasant Grove, Little Salt Lake Valley, Payson, and Ogden.
Many exploring parties traveled extensively over the Great Basin.
Hundreds of English saints arrived in Great Salt Lake Valley. In September the Congress of the United States passed an act establishing the Territory of Utah, and more than a month later the news of this event reached the Valley. Brigham Young was appointed governor. Parley's Canyon was opened to travel through the Wasatch Mountains, and Parley Pratt named this road "The Golden Pass." It became an important route for emigration to the Pacific Coast, and was thus established as a "golden" link 531 in the ever-widening frontiers of America. The University of Utah also cele brated its Centennial in 1950, and now, at the turn of its second century, looks forward to even greater service.
This pioneer institution was discussed in an editorial in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine. At this time, as Relief Society women, we are impressed with the accomplishments of our people in the past one hundred years, and we realize anew the importance of time, and of our own brief place in the swift passing of the years. The century that lies ahead will no doubt - give us and our children great opportunities and great responsibilities. —V. P. C. >< Mother---Pioneer Dorothy J]. Roberts From nine to ninety, what a light loaf grew Under her kneading into famous bread. And always at seven, twelve, and half-past-five, Sure, and good as seasons, was her table spread.
More than ninety years she held her beauty clean; And white and shining were her face and hair, And fresh as a maiden on an Easter morn, She graced, at ninety-one, her rocking chair. The fine, burled walnut of her bridal bed, Darkened with time into a soft repose, Still handsome, sturdy and unmarred by years, Blessed her slumber to its peaceful close. Complacent Beulah Huish Sadleir I have a handkerchief pinned to my dress— For fear I shall lose it, Like all of the rest. I have a memory pinned to my heart— No cause to worry— The pin is a dart. Beauty Gs in &verything Gene Romolo Beauty is in everything Molded by the hand of God, From mankind, his masterpiece, To the emerald-bladed sod, But only faith-filled cyes can see Its imprint of divinity, American Pottery and Porcelain Part I Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson OR a good many years Americans showed little interest in their native pottery makers.
From the day that Mary Chilton Winslow and Priscilla Mullins Alden set out their sturdy English pewter to receive the first meal cooked in their new homes, and, for almost a hundred years thereafter, hardly a mention is made of the men or establishments which supplied the earthen pots in which these good wives must have cooked their beans, the vessels which they used for carrying water, or the crocks for storing butter, pickles, or oysters. Yet, the Virginia Colony is supposed to have had commercial potteries by 1650, and lists of Dutch settlers in New York contain names of "Pot-Bakers" as early as 1657.
Perhaps the Pilgrim father accepted "pot-baking" as his responsibility during the cold and confining New England winters or, perhaps, a neighboring farmer turned out crocks to barter for other household necessities. At any rate, the task was not considered worthy of historical mention. In 1684, Daniel Coxe of Burlington, New Jersey, set up a pottery which, tradition states, turned out "white stoneware," probably of the salt-glazed type, which was being produced by contemporary Staffordshire potters. No known examples of his handiwork have come down to us. Page 232 A hundred years later a famous English potter, William Cookworthy, informs us that American potters were doing a high quality of work. He wrote to a friend in 1745, that the potters of Virginia were producing "china ware...." equal to the Asiatic from "petuntse and kaolin" to be found "in the back of Virginia." The Cherokee natives called the clay "unaker," and several English firms—Bow, Worcester, Bristol, and Wedgwood— seem to have been importing it for use in their china making. A number of Staffordshire potters immigrated to North Carolina and set up a pottery, and even the eminently successful Josiah Wedgwood was fearful lest they might eventually capture his large American market. He could not foresee that American housewives were to continue their prejudice in favor of English wares and against American for many generations to come. Josiah Wedgwood need not have worried! A hundred and fifty years later, the descendants of those Staffordshire immigrants were still practicing their family trade in the mountains of North Carolina, with their mountaineer neighbors as their only customers. One old potter, ironically enough, was named Josiah Wedgwood Sheffield! He pronounced it "Shuffle."
Potters from Staffordshire had settled in New York, Pennsylvania, AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN and New Jersey, also, and the socalled "Pennsylvania Dutch" ware, with its interesting tulip and bird designs, was inspired, probably, as much by the slip ware of Staffordshire as the faience of Germany and Holland. It was made in the same manner as its European forerunner, with yellow slip trailed onto red earthenware or, occasionally, a light background, decorated with a darker design.
Pieces marked "Mary's Dish," "Baby's Dish," "Mince Pie," "Shoofly," or merely dates and initials, indicate that much of this slip ware was made for gifts. HE Revolution started a "Buy American" movement and, for a time, it looked as though the American ceramic industry was to have its chance at last. A pottery established at Bennington, Vermont, in 1793, was one of the most successful. At first, ordinary red earthenware was made, but after the discovery of a kaolin bed at Monkton, Vermont, in 1810, better things were produced, among them, yellowware, made of clay which burned.
Buff color instead of red, Rockingham, which was_ yellowware with a dark brown mottled glaze, and Parian ware, the product which made the Bennington factory famous.
Parian is an unglazed white, soft porcelain or bone china, and had been a popular product of the eighteenth century French factories and, later, the Spode factory of England.
Lovely vases, pitchers, and small figures were produced at Bennington, many of them ornately modeled, and sometimes tinted t o resemble Wedgwood's jasper ware. In 1825, the Jersey Porcelain and Earthenware Company began mak- 533 ing the first true porcelain to be produced in the United States.
Other factories in New Jersey and around Philadelphia had hopeful beginnings, also, only to be spurned by the housewife for the floods of English cream-colored ware shipped over by Wedgwood and his fellow business men.
They catered to the patriotism of the new nation with portraits of Revolutionary heroes and battle scenes, even depicting their own generals in humiliated defeat, in their determination to retain the American market.
Then came the spacious days of the clipper ships, when American china cupboards were stocked with oriental porcelains which sea-faring BENNINGTON VASE Nineteenth Century American
534 PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH PLATE husbands brought home from their long voyages. "Buy American" was forgotten, and even the Bennington factory had to turn out its fine products unmarked, for fear that the ladies might turn aside unless they could be led to believe that it was made in England. White House china purchases reflected the attitude of the times. Martha Washington used gold and white Sevres for best and blue and white Nanking ware for everyday. Dolly Madison also favored French wares. During John Quincy Adam's administration, Congress passed a law requiring that White House furnishings be Americanmade when possible. In spite of this, no domestic china was considered suitable for formal State dinners throughout many administrations to come. The best that could be done in that regard, from Lincoln's to Garfield's era, was to use the French products of the American Mr. Haviland. At last, when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950
President and Mrs.
Wilson needed a new State dinner service, a true American product, Lenox china, was found to equal the finest wares of any nation, and, since that time, the White House has been proud ) to "Buy American." URING the years when the frontier was pushing westward, ¥ American ceramic efforts dwindled to the production of kitchen dishes, purchased from the peddler, who became the chief outlet for the potteries of the New Jersey, Ohio, and West Virginia districts.
Many of these kilns had been set up by immigrant potters from England, who saw no reason why the good clays of America could not be utilized with as much financial success as those of the Old Country.
They soon found that the transfer-printed wares of Staffordshire came first in the hearts of our pioneer grandmothers, even in the backwoods of Ohio and Illinois, so they confined their efforts to providing a serviceable white kitchenware which they variously called white granite, stone china, or ironstone.
Some of it was decorated with underglaze printing, but the great mass was of an ugly blue-white, without decoration of any sort. The idea that even common kitchen utensils could be beautiful had not yet taken hold. An ever-increasing population needed dishes, however, so the OhioWest Virginia potteries prospered. Today, this area contains around a hundred and twenty-five ceramic plants, turning out many varieties of wares, chiefly of the moderate to inexpensive type.
Hotel china, a hard and completely vitrified prod- AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN 535 uct, is made by many companies. Limoges Company are paying inFor home use, such firms as Homer creased attention to beautiful shape Laughlin, Steubenville, Salem Chiand graceful decoration, for even na Company, and the American their most inexpensive products. ANNA MAE BRANCH, PRICE, UTAH, MAKES HER COLLECTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES AVAILABLE TO CARBON STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS Anna Mae Branch has a hobby which is both interesting and useful. She makes her large collection of Relief Society Magazines available to anyone requesting references for lesson work, programs, histories, sermons, and addresses.
Whenever one of the Relief Society Magazines is listed as a reference, Sister Branch has it and is very generous in letting anyone have access to this valuable "Magazine library," which includes many bound volumes, and is complete for the past thirty-five years. Sister Branch, who has been an active Relief Society worker for fifty years, has found the Magazine ''a treasure house" in her activities. She writes: "The first volume of the Relief Society outlines or lesson work was called The Relief Society Bulletin and was published during the year 1914. 'The following year, _1915, the publication was called The Relief Society Magazine, and Susa Young Gates was the editor. In that year President Joseph F.
Smith sent the Magazine this greeting: 'Accept my sincere congratulations and heartiest greetings in honor of the birth of The Relief Society Magazine. May it enter upon its noble mission so firmly entrenched about by bulwarks of capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious.' " Dark in the Chrysalis Alice Morrey Bailey CuaPTER 8 (COoNcLUusION) DITH returned to the house alone after the funeral.
Cory had stayed at the cemetery to oversee the completion of his mother's burial.
Edith had overheard Mrs.
Hartley her home for dinner and thought that would be good for him, rather than to come back to this house, so deadly quiet after the great activities of the past three months.
Amanda came out from the kitchen when she heard Edith come in. "Would you like me to fix you something, Mrs. Ashe?" she asked. "No, thank you, Amanda," Edith said. She was more than just weary. She was wrung out. She sat at the telephone and called Kit. "T am ready to come home, Kit," she told him. "Of course you understand it is only until I find some other work." "Now, Mother," Kit said. "Don't feel that way. You know you are welcome here as long as you live. I don't like to think of you off working." "We'll talk about it when I get there. How soon can you come?" "Whenever you say, Mother.
Right away if you like." "Tl be ready in half an hour," Edith told him. "You're not leaving?" said Amanda when she hung up. "Yes, right away," Edith replied. "You see my job is finished. With Mrs.
Lewis dead and Linnie gone, there is nothing left for me to do." "Why, that's right," agreed Page 536 invite him to - Amanda wonderingly. "Somehow I just never thought of your leaving. You got so close to them it seemed like you was one of the family. It just seemed like Mr.
Lewis might—" "Might what, Amanda?"
Edith couldn't resist asking. "Well, I dunno.
Might keep you on, I guess. Laws, it's going to be lonesome and funny with you gone, too." "Yes, it is, isn't it?"
Edith agreed absently. She was thinking of herself and the days ahead. She was ready when Kit drove up. She had been careful to remember everything, in order not to have to return for anything. In a few days, when Cory had time to think, she would telephone him and find out when he would want her to take her furniture. She looked at it now, as she came around the curve in the stair. The late afternoon sun drifted through the Venetian blinds, slanted on the carpet, etching the graceful bannister with light and casting the lovely shadows of flowers on the walls.
Never before, and never again would she see her beloved furniture in such a setting.
Love of this house had grown on her until it was like leaving her own home, but it was more than the furniture that tugged at her now.
These walls were haunted with Linnie's slender grace, her fluted song and the gallantly eager lift of her head. And Grammy!
Almost any minute, now, it seemed, Grammy DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS would come wheeling out of the dining room, her black eyes snapping, her tongue ready with its wit.
Such profound things as marriage and death did something to a house. THEY had no more profound effect, however, than a house could have on its occupants.
Austere and chill and unbeautiful, it could stilt and frustrate the spirit.
Made into a home it could be a liberating agent, as this one had been iridescent wings for the hidden beauties of the soul. It was more than a matter of upholstery, fabric, wood, and the money to buy them. It was a matter of love and pride, of self-respect and artisanship, a satisfying of the hungers, human and divine, that were inherent in every person. It was a stage and a setting for drama. On this stair Cory's hand had touched hers; his voice speaking her name, had poised her here, suddenly still. It was best to go now, quickly, leaving this profound thing, which could not even be called her love for Cory, abortive and unfulfilled within these walls.
Beside them Annette's house was flat and utilitarian, and had less appeal than ever to Edith.
Annette hovered over her anxiously at dinner, straining to make her feel at home. "Why, Mother! How you have changed! I had no idea you were so pretty. I love the way you do your hair, and your new clothes are stunning. I didn't know you had such marvelous taste." Her words should have touched the joy of victory in Edith's heart, because it was obvious that Annette remembered her own indictment of her mother-in-law only a few months 537 previous. 'The words that had stung Edith so bitterly then stirred no feeling in her now. She had thought and felt so much since then, had had so much fulfillment that the little scene seemed long ago and far away. It held significance only in the fact that it had catapulted her into one of the richest experiences in her life. "Eat more of your dinner, Mother," Kit was. Saying. "Annie's fixed your favorite recipes." "Thank you, Annette," smiled Edith. "I'm afraid I am more weary than hungry tonight." "And.
Already talking about another job," Kit exploded. "Well, you can just forget that idea." "No, I think not, Kit. I found it quite exciting to earn my Own money, to be an individual rather than a parasite.
There are some things I must see to—get my furniture back home—" Annette looked stricken. "That room—" she said. "I've fixed it up for—" "No matter," sai d Edith. "I can store the furniture down town until I find something to do with it— take an unfurnished apartment, maybe. It all depends upon what I find to do." "Mother," Kit said, '"Annette's fixed the room for a nursery." "Kit! Annette!" said Edith, stirred from her lethargy of mind to real elation. "That's wonderful!" "I—we hoped that you would be here, well to see Annette through—" "Why, of course I will," said Edith. "That's what mothers are for."' "Then you can forget about go ing to work again.
This once was all right—a lark, but no more of it." "Nonsense," said Edith. "I have 538 no intention of sitting down here with you young folks any more. It will be months before Annette needs me, and then only for a few weeks of time." HE excused herself as soon as possible and went upstairs. A warm bath and to bed, she thought.
Sleep would relieve her mind from the terrible apathy that had descended upon it again after the excitement of hearing about Kit's baby. In spite of her brave words and her resolutions, life stretched bleakly into an uninteresting future, without beauty, without richness, with nothing real ahead, except old age. ~The bath did not bring sleep, and Edith lay, refusing to think, wanting not to feel, for either would bring the two things.
That she just now could not bear—homesickness for Cory's house, loneliness for Cory. "Mother," said Annette, knocking softly. "Yes?" said Edith. "Mr.
Lewis is on the telephone." "Mr. Lewis?" asked Edith, leaping up, excitement exploding within her.
Whatever this thing was in her veins it had to be stopped, wiped out, killed. "Probably calling about the furniture, or my last check," she said. "Tell him I've gone to bed— that I'll call him tomorrow." "T did, but he said it was urgent." "Oh, all right," said Edith, getting into robe and slippers.
After all it was only nine o'clock. _ "Thave to see you. Tonight," Cory said when she answered the telephone. "If it's the furniture—" began Edith. "Tt isn't the furniture," said Cory. "Or your check. How long will it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 | take you to dress?" "Not long. Fifteen. Minutes," said E: dith wonderingly. "Tl call for you," said Cory and hung up. | Fdith's fingers shook while she dressed and she was unable to control the slow pounding that began in her heart.
Cory was there in ten minutes, conversing with Kit and | Annette, his hat in his hand, when she came down. He looked perfectly normal with the exception of his weariness. He barely glanced at Edith, but got up, opened the door for her as he finished his conversation with Kit, and bade them good night, and followed her out. He put her in the car without a word and went around to the driver's side. | "Lean back. Relax," he commanded her, starting the car. It was good to do just that while Cory drove, letting the little fire of curiosity die down. 'The breeze that lifted her hair was pleasant.
Cory nosed the car to higher ground above the city until it lay below them like a lap of jewels.
Still he drove, entering a nearby canyon, turning and twisting on the road, silhouettes of pines and the steep sides of hills racing past them.
Finally he achieved a small plateau, turned off the road, and stopped. "This is a favorite place of mine," he said then, and went on talking dispassionately, tracing the canyons and watercourses from their point of vantage. HE just couldn't bear staying in the house, Edith decided. In all that emptiness.
This ride had no significance, no better reason. Of course it was urgent.
Losing his DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS mother, much as it might have been expected, by her age, was a cataclysm, one she well knew, but she had thought him adequately taken care of for the evening.
What had happened to dinner, and to Mrs. Hartley? "Look at the moon," she said, wondering how many millions of people had made that same observation. "In town the lights outdo it, make it look like a cheap prop, but out here it comes into its own." It looked close enough to touch and its white light bathed the world. "I hope it shines like that on Linnie and Paul, wherever they are. It's a real honeymoon." "My guess is the Canadian woods. Otherwise, some of my telegrams would have reached them. In a way, I'm glad they didn't. It will hurt Linnie not to have been here, but on the other hand, she will remember mother like she saw her last— happy and excited, and peppery as they come. Then, too, their honeymoon should not be marred."
Then that wasn't what was on Cory's mind, thought Edith, still casting frantically for clues to tonight's meeting. If it was that he just wanted to ease his mind and talk of June and the moon and nature, then she would humor him, she decided, but her next words betrayed her, as usual. "Cory, I know it's your mother. Iam so sorry. I feel that I neglected her to help Linnie. She might still be with you if I hadn't." "Don't say such a thing! Don't even think it," said Cory vehemently. "It was her time to go.
Mother was eighty-five, you know." "But if only she could have 539 stayed a month more, until Linnie and Paul were back to bear it with you.
Having them both leave the same day was too hard for you." "No one consults us about those things," Cory said. "My mother died happy, and she did so because of you. You know yourself that she was bitter, confined to the loneli-.
Ness of her room, longing for death when you came. "Look what you did!
Gave her an interest in life—got her out of that dark room, let her participate in the preparations for Linnie's wedding. She loved it, I tell you. She was happy right up to the last minute. She went to sleep happy, and she didn't wake up. I wouldn't have it different." "Then— what is it—troubling your" Edith asked, a_ horrible thought overcoming her. If he asks me to help with his wedding I just— "It's you, Edith." "Me?" asked Edith ungrammatically, her heart stopping dead still. "T've looked at this thing from every angle, argued myself black in the face, tried to put myself in Linnie's place. It isn't that I didn't love her mother. It all comes out to the same thing. It's as real as the back of my hand," Cory said, holding up his hand to look at it in the moonlight. "I love you, Edith. I want to marry you and live with you the rest of my life." DITH looked at him and could not speak for the waves of joy that shook her from head to foot. "Does that surprise you so much, Edith? I told Linnie right in front (Continued on page 574) "Just a Housewife!"' Winifred N. Jones FELT I would explode. If I heard just one more woman on just one more radio program say just one more time, "I'm just a housewife!" She did! Why must women insist on being apologetic about being a housewife— or, if you prefer, homemaker?
Practically every woman spends most of her first twenty-five years trying to become a wife and housekeeper and then immediately starts feeling sorry for herself because she has what she wanted! Any woman who is a good homemaker has nothing on earth for which to apologize. She must furnish hard work, intelligence, ingenuity, and an unlimited amount of patience for the job.
Successful homemaking can and will give a woman enormous satisfaction if she will bring to it the same time, attention, and interest a job outside of her home would demand of her.
This belittling attitude so many women adopt toward homemaking breeds the very things that make it unattractive for them, carelessness and inefficiency and monotony and drudgery to household tasks. In contrast, the woman who keeps her home in shipshape order has time for activities that will keep her mentally alert and stimulated. She doesn't always have left-over jobs to do! The woman who opens a can of soup or puts together a tasteless sandwich at lunchtime for herself and children can't help feeling that cooking is a bore. But the lady of Page 540 the house who prides herself on always setting an attractive and appetizing meal on the table enjoys doing it.
Women are not honest with themselves about this thing.
They spend time daydreaming about being a big cog in an exciting office, when, in truth, they would probably be very small wheels in very monotonous jobs. A woman who wears houseslippers most of the day in her home frets about how ting her housework is. How long does she think those tenderized feet would last holding her up behind a counter all day! Has the woman who moans about the trial of having to wash dishes three times a day ever worked in a bindery where they handle thousands of identical sheets of paper over and over and over? Doesn't the woman who complains about her husband's desire to stay home evening after evening ever recall that the reason she married him was "'so we can be alone together'? It's up to her to make that time together as interesting now as it was then! She can— if she will insist on bringing attractiveness into: her home. HEAR women saying it can't be done on limited budgets. Nonsense. Of course having plentv to do with helps, but a little imagination and hard work pay higher home dividends. Let her forget what. Her neighbor has or has not in her house.
After all, she and her family must live in theirs! Adjust JUST A HOUSEWIFE the home necessities to the desires of the family. That's the strongest long-range standard. It is usually the woman who complains about a lack of clothes who remarks in the next breath, "IT never sew. It bores me." She is also the woman who doesn't realize that the most expensive clothes anil those selected by "best-dressed" women are those that are individually tailored, not those turned out by the hundreds in factories.
This same attitude is reflected in her relationship with her children. Picnics, parties, family reading hours, and established Christmas traditions are absent from the home of the woman who whines, "The children nearly wear me out!" 541
Women will argue that society doesn't expect every man to be a doctor, lawyer, or ditch-digger, but expects every woman to be a good homemaker. Very well, but society also expects every man to give his time, energy, and devotion to his job. Should less be expected of a woman? She chose to be a housewife!
The woman who fails at being a homemaker and dreams of an exciting and successful career as a business woman fails to recognize that routine, application to detail, and performing an unpleasant job are also essential to a business career.
She also forgets that she is working for, and with the man whom she selected to be her companion in the building of an eternal home. o/o Caro/
On the Death of Her Mother
Margaret B. ShomaJcer
If words could pierce sorrow's brittle pain
And touch the weeping heart, to ease its grief,
My trembling lips would sing a sweet refrain
In hope the tone would bring you sure relief.
Then I would take a splinter from the moon
And lead you from this sorrow, dark as night,
To where the lips and heart caress a tune
And tired eyes turn with courage to the light.
But from my lips only a muted cry;
Held in my heart the tone of silent song,
Caught like a bird in prison from the sky.
Please let me hold your hand in silence strong,
For unsaid words will vibrate sorrow's air
And you will understand my wordless prayer.

The Washstand^l950 Version
Kathryn Jane Collins
SIXTY years or so ago, when in the cabinet section. An excelthere was no hot water rushing lent bedside table can be made from from the tap at the turn of one, or an extra chest of drawers a handle, a small washstand with a for all those things that seem to pitcher and bowl standing on top collect. For the lady who sews, it was a prominent feature of almost is just the place for all her sev^ing every bedroom. At the washstand supplies, you scrubbed and polished yourself! We use ours for a radio cabinet.
Today, these very same wash- After removing the old varnish, I stands, when refinished in a simple found the top to be a lovely piece and inexpensive way, add charm and of burl-grained maple. I removed beauty to our homes. These small, the door panel and replaced it low chests of drawers are very ver- with a piece of ordinary wire lathe, satile and can be used in many ways, the kind used in plastering. First,
Usually, they have one long drawer I gilded it, and the result is an atacross the top and the lower part of tractive grilled door. The radio the washstand is divided into two speaker will be hidden behind this sections, one side with a door and grill, which will have a piece of tapthe other side with two smaller estry tacked to the back. We plan drawers. The wood is usually solid, to cut off the front panel from the The ones I have seen have been upper small drawer and hinge it made of walnut, oak, maple, or to pull down and expose the dials, cherry. The bottom drawer will hold the Since these washstands were so radio chassis and tubes, common, probably you have one To refinish one of these pieces way back in your basement or hid- is very simple. First remove any den in your attic under all those hardware and examine it carefully things that such places usually col- before discarding it. A little paint lect. Maybe you have an aunt or remover used on the hardware may a cousin who has one. If these reveal beautiful old brass handles sources fail, perhaps the second- and knobs. If not, you can purhand store might have one. chase very nice copies of antique
With a mirror hung . above the hardware at the store, washstand to give you a glimpse Before beginning the refinishing, of yourself or to give your guests protect your hands with gloves and a chance to straighten their ties protect the floor with newspapers, and fix that wayward lock, the You will need rags and an old paint washstand makes a hall inviting. brush, which can be thrown away
You can use one in the dining after the work is completed, room as a useful server and store Begin by removing the drawers silver in the drawers and tall vases and placing the washstand on its Page 542

THE WASHSTAND— 1950 VERSION
543 back so that the front is horizontal with the floor. Spread paint remover on generously with the brush and let it stand until the surface begins to crack. Then, working with the grain, use a putty knife or some similar object to remove the old paint or varnish. Get into the corners and flutings. Then do the top, and the sides. Try to have each section in a horizontal position when applying the paint remover so that it will not run off. After all the old finish is off, apply another coat and wipe off thoroughly with rags. Then wipe all the surfaces with alcohol to remove any wax left by the paint remover. Sand any rough surfaces with the grain of the wood.
VOU may find that the whole piece needs staining. If you wish to stain it be sure to try samples of your stain in an inconspicuous corner before applying it all over. After some searching,
I found a mahogany stain in the lovely dark purple tones one finds in good furniture. Stain the piece and le t it dry thoroughly.
Now you are ready for the final step. There are several ways to finish off the washstand. You can varnish the surface, then rub down with pumice and oil. To remove excess pumice, wipe with a cloth dipped in benzine. Then polish with a chamois.
Or the waxed finish may appeal to you. Wax thoroughly; rub with steel wool and then with a chamois. Let this stand for a week; then wax and rub down again. Continue until the piece has a lovely patina.
I myself prefer the oil finish. This finish takes much wear, will not scratch as varnish does, and brings out the grain of the wood. For it I mix two parts of linseed oil with one part of turpentine and bring to a boil. Then cool and, with a soft cloth, apply to a small section, rubbing it in well for five to twenty minutes on each section. When you finish, the wood should be dry and unable to absorb more. Do not let the oil remain on top in a sticky film. Rub always with the grain of the wood.
Then wait a week and apply more. In another week, apply still more. Four or five applications should give the finish you want.
By now, the washstand, with glow-ing handles and a beautiful, mellow patina, is ready for a new and useful life. You will be greatly repaid for the small amount of time you have spent.