[The Jumpher Family Camps by Deone R. Sutherland]

The Jumpher Family Camps Deone R. Sutherland 66 J T'S ridiculous,' Mama said, "not to take enough things so we'll be good and comfortable." "But we're only going for four days,' Papa moaned. "I don't mind that camp stove so much, but Martin's rocker! Is he going to rock?"
Martin is the youngest in the family. He was rocking now on the edge of the sidewalk.
People turned out for him. "He might get tired," Mama said.
Then she whispered, "Besides, you know how attached he is to that little rocker. I doubt if he'd come without it."
Martin had got awfully fond of his rocker. He'd drag it all over the apartment with him.
Sometimes he'd sit in it with a little smile of blissful satisfaction curving his lips. He slept with it by his crib so he might reach out and touch it if he liked. "But where will we put it? We're so overloaded now," said Papa, "we'll never make it up the steep stretches of the canyon." "Well."
Mama looked reflective.
Then went over to the car. We were all standing around outside helping load the car, Papa, Mama, Randy, Richard, me, Martha Jane, and Martin in his rocker.
Occasionally people going by would slow their cars and look back, or else, if they were walking, turn their heads casually in our direction, then sharply.
Martin stared serenely back at the reluctantly diminishing forms of the passersby. My sister Randy hated it. "Honestly," she said, "we can't even take a trip like other people. We have to be a spectacle." But I noticed she stayed around.
Mama had climbed into the car. "Can't we leave these things home, Hugh? It would make much more room on the rear seat, and maybe we could put the rocker—" Papa groaned, "My fishing equipment! I might as well stay home as leave that. We'll have to put the rocker on top of that tent and bedding on the top of the car." We finally coaxed Martin to leave the rocker and get inside the car. It was crowded, but Papa said the canyon wasn't too far away. We were very excited. "I'm — starving," said Richard. "Trips always.
Make me hungry." "We've barely started," said Papa. "Hungry," moaned Martin.
Mama passed us a banana.
After awhile we ate the oranges.
Martin ate part of his and then rubbed it on the car window. "Now, I can't see out at all," complained Randy. "Tell us when we get to the canyon."
Martin reached over to rub his orange on Randy, but Mama caught him and pulled him into the front seat again. "This is a very lovely trip,' Mama kept saying. "It was very nice of Papa to insist on taking all of us with him when he went fishing this year." "We need a real outing together," Papa said emphatically.
Then he ordered in a loud voice, "Smell!" It was the canyon, The car began  516 going uphill. It had been overloaded; we could feel it. "Lean forward," Richard shouted, and we leaned. We kept having to stop for water for the engine. "We should throw off something," said Richard. "Let's start throwing things off so we'll make it." "No," said Mama decisively.
When we were going again, Mama kept pointing out nice places to stop. "Not me," said Papa, "we're not even out of civilization yet. Besides, I know the spots up ahead that are wonderful for camping where we can be all by ourselves." 'sy don't think the car will make it," said Mama softly. "Look at the trees, children." We all looked and smelled. It was wonderful. So much green, and real pine trees and a creek.
There were wild flowers and dense green places of more varied shades than we remembered existed. We sniffed the air again. 'T'here was a different odor, the odor of burning. "The engine," Mama called. "Hugh!"
Smoke curled out of the sides of the engine.
Papa drove off the road towards the creek. We got out and ran for water.
Puff went the engine and the paint on the top of the hood burned off.
Papa threw the water, and the fire was out. He got in the car and tried to start the engine. It didn't start. = think this-is a lovely place to mp,' decided Mama. Oo do I," said Papa, grinning. "These new cars," he shook his head. "Remember the Model T' we had when we were first married, Kate? We really could go up the hills in  that." He patted Mama's shoulder. "Hey," yelled Richard, "Martha Jane, get out of the creek!" "We ought to get the tent up," reminded Mama. "Yes," said Papa, plore a little." We ran about deciding where everything would go. We cleared a place for the bonfire.
Richard wandered off, and we went out to look for him. "It's getting dark awfully fast," said Randy. "Clouds," I said. "Blow over in a minute," Papa said. "Richard," he hollered. He finally heard us, and we all ran to get to the camp before the storm. Mama, Martin, and Martha Jane were dragging our tent to the campsite. "I believe we might have a little shower," said Papa, and Martin began to cry at the lightning. I jumped at a clap of thunder. We had no time to get the tent up. We crouched under it, watching the rain.
Mama opened a box of cookies she had brought from the car, and we ate them.
Martin opened his mouth to cry at the crash of thunder, but went to sleep instead.
Papa made beds for the smallest ones in the car, and the rest of us sat in the encroaching mud under the canvas of the tent. "It can't last long," Papa kept saying. It rained all night. We woke up stiff and muddy and fully clothed. "The bedding is ruined," Mama kept saying. "And so am I," she would say, feeling her hair. But the sun was shining, and the puddles would soon dry up, answered Papa. "Put let's ex- THE JUMPHER FAMILY CAMPS Martin loved the puddles. "Oh," he'd. Say. "Oh!" and reach out his foot to step in one. We kept having to pull him back.
Papa built a big fire, and we began to get dry. The smell of food made Richard say he was going to die of starvation, and the canyon trip began to be really fun after we had eaten. "We'll all go explore Cooter's mine," said Papa. "I'll make this a real outing for you kids." "Don't you think you ought to rest?" asked Mama. "After last night, I mean. You've been limping." "Just a crick in my leg," said Papa. "It'll go away. Now everyone come. I'll carry Martin." "No," said Mama, "Martin and I will stay here. Ill keep Martha Jane, too, and we'll fix things up a bit." Martha Jane screwed up her face, though she really didn't know what she wasn't going to get to do. "No," said Papa emphatically. "You rest with Martin, but I'll take Martha Jane off your hands.
Come on, kids. I need a good chance to get acquainted with my family. We'll be back in plenty of time for lunch."
Mama waved to us, but she looked doubtful. ARTHA Jane trotted along holding Papa's hand.
Richard kept prancing ahead, and then running back. "It isn't far," said Papa, "if I remember rightly.
Save your wind, Richard." "T feel fine,' said Richard, running up the trail. I got tired, and Randy got tired. "We should be there soon," said Papa. 517
Martha Jane sat down. "TI's tired," she said.
Papa carried her. He was puffing quite hard.
Pretty soon he quit talking and just set his jaw. "Haven't we hiked past this once before?" asked Richard, pointing to a pine tree growing through a rock. "I believe we have," said Papa, puffing. He set Martha Jane down. We rested., "Come on," said Richard, running ahead. In a moment he came back. "'There's a sign up here," he said, "pointing that way to the mine." He pointed back in the direction from which we had come. "Let's follow the signs," suggested Randy. We climbed along the side of | the mountain, Martha Jane on Papa's back. The mouth to the mine was small, and the huge logs holding up the entrance looked ancient.
Papa was too tired to talk about it. He got out his flashlight and a string for all of us to hold on to. Martha Jane wouldn't get down so Papa carried her.
Richard galloped ahead and back. The tunnel was damp and dark.
Water trickled down the sides of the leaning walls.
There were puddles on the ground, so we walked carefully along the cross ties. "Yow!" screeched Richard far up ahead. We heard a slide of rock. "Richard," called Papa, but there was no answer. "Richard, Richard!" called Papa, and we raced forward.
Papa handed Martha Jane to Randy, who staggered under the load.
Papa ran faster than I've ever seen him.
When we got up farther into the tunnel, we saw Papa lying flat in the wet, damp mud talking to Richard.
Richard had fallen 518 through one side of the track to a kind of cave beneath. Mud and debris partially filled the cave, but Richard still couldn't reach Papa's hand. "Gee," said Richard, "I guess you'll have to leave me here." We gathered around and looked down at him. Martha Jane began to cry. "Hush," said Papa. "We certain-. Ly won't leave him here after all the money we've spent on him."
Papa handed Richard the string, but it was only to steady him; it could never hold him. "You'll have to stay here with Richard," said Papa to Randy and me and Martha Jane. "I'll have to go out and hunt for a pole or something." 'Then he made us promise not to move one inch one way or another until he came back. "Anything might cave in under you at any time," he said. We were impressed. We sat perfectly still, though our legs ached, and we began to feel cold from the damp. "You can show people my skeleton," called Richard, "and charge." "Be quiet," said Randy.
Everybody felt gloomy, except Richard. He seemed very cheerful. Martha Jane cried herself to sleep on Randy. Our feet were wet and muddy, and when we had just decided to abandon Richard and try to find out what Papa might have fallen into, he came back. He was dragging two long limbs from trees. Branches, partially cut off, stuck out on the sides.
Papa had a bandage around one of his hands. "Just a slight scratch," said Papa. "I thought it would never stop bleeding," he added. We were too cold to be very sympathetic. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 ICHARD climbed out, after much slipping back and caving in of dirt. His hair was matted with mud. "Your mother will never know you," said Papa to Richard and then to us. He tied us together with string and took Martha Jane on his back. We went very slowly. "T'm hungry," Randy announced. "T don't want to hear about it," replied Papa. "Hungry," said Martha Jane, beginning to cry again.
Papa sang to her. "Oh, little Redwing, don't you cry. Oh, little Redwing." We didn't laugh. We were too tired. The sun made us squint when we got outside.
Papa blocked the cave aS a sign of warning and said he'd hike back with a sign since we didn't have any paper. "Today?" we asked with interest. "Not today," he said, looking away, "tomorrow." We slipped and slid and crawled down, down.
Randy and I moaned.
Richard galloped ahead, clutching trees and hallooing wildly.
Papa came down backwards, sometimes on his knees, holding Martha Jane tightly. We got back much faster than we went up, but it still took a long time. "Your mother will be very wortied," said Papa; "it's long after Junch.": We beat Papa and Martha Jane in by a mile, and Richard beat us.
Mama had lunch waiting and the camp all fixed neatly. We felt much better, though Mama was horrified at how we looked. "Did you all stand on your heads in mud?" she asked. We explained while we packed water to heat so THE JUMPHER FAMILY CAMPS we could get clean, which Mama said was going to be a job.
Papa got to the camp at last. He gasped and lay down on the ground. Martha Jane ran to Mama, and then she saw the swing. "Swing," she squealed. She ran in circles, toedanced to the swing. She seemed very happy and not tired at all.
Mama got out the first-aid kit and bandaged Papa's hand. She put merthiolate on his scratches while he groaned. "I'm dead," he kept saying. He revived to eat and wash and then lay down again on a blanket. He slept all afternoon while we explored.
That night he told us stories, and we roasted marshmallows around the campfire.
Mama took us for a short hike the next morning while Papa fixed the car. He had to flag someone and go to the city for parts. It took him all day. He hired a man to drive him back.
Then the next afternoon Papa wrote a sign about a very dangerous mine and cave-in and set off to post it.
Mama sent Richard with him to show him the way, though she whispered that part to Richard. Also, on no condition, were they to go into the mine. "Don't worry," said Papa. We hated to leave the canyon.
Papa was packing the car again, and we were helping. "Kate," he said, looking over a pile of bedding, "T never imagined in a thousand 519 years kids were so much work, that things pertaining to a family could be so exhausting." He looked at Mama with great admiration and shook his head. We all felt very conceited as if Papa had praised us. "T don't want to go," wailed Martha Jane, and Papa had to chase her. At last we were ready. "Oh, my pine cones,' Randy yelled, and leaped from the car and ran across the camp area. "I can't find them," she called. She disappeared from sight. 'There was a kind of squeak and shout.
Papa jumped out of the car.
Randy came up from the creek.
Rivulets of water dripped from her jeans.
Mama ran with a blanket. "I slipped,' Randy explained. "One more shock—" said Papa. We were off, finally, winding down the canyon. It seemed a long time since we had first come to stay, since we had been home. "It's too bad, Hugh, you didn't get to fish at all," sympathized Mama, holding Martin so he could see outside. "T don't mind," said Papa. "This was the best trip," declared Richard, "that we ever had." "Let's do it every summer," suggested Randy. "Promise!" we all shouted at Papa.
Papa promised. "We had a wonderful time camping," Randy said. We really had. My Thorn Maude O. Cook You say that your rose has a thorn? Why do you not try to transpose, And say without sorrow or scorn, "My thorn has a beautiful rose?"
Organizing the Relief Society ITlagazine Campaign N. Florence Hanny Former Magazine Representative, Firth Ward and Shelley Stake, Idaho 1.
Consider the calling which you have accepted seriously. Putting The Relief Society Magazine into the homes of the people in your ward is your work. 2.
Before beginning in any way, kneel in humble prayer before the Lord and tell him that you have been called to this work and that you have told those presiding over you that you would try to do it, and ask in faith for the Lord's help to guide you. 3.
Prepare a list of names of all women in your district, whether or not these women belong to the Relief Society organization.
Consult your ward Relief Society secretary for all names of Church members in your district which she has listed in the visiting teacher report book. Use your own judgment as to whether or not you will call upon non-members of the Church.
This is an additional possibility for subscriptions and may result in much good in bringing the gospel to other people. (The Relief Society Magazine was placed in the homes of eighteen non-members of the Church in the Firth Ward, Shelley Stake, in 1948.
Firth is a small town with 102
Latter-day Saint and part Latter-day Saint families. ) 4.
Have a goal representing what you would like to do. Latter-day Saints work for the highest degree. The number enrolled on the Relief Society record in your ward is the number of subscriptions you will need to obtain 100 per cent in your work. Seventy-five per cent will place you on the Honor Roll in Magazine work, but it takes the number of your ward enrollment at the close of 1949 to make 100% for your ward in 1950. 5: Make a definite study of the principal features of The Relief Society Magazine, so that you will be prepared to tell others about it. 6. You are now ready to begin your work.
Before going into the homes, be humble and prayerful and rely on the Lord in all things. Let your mind be open to inspiration and make use of new thoughts which may come to you for working possibilities. 'This is really the interesting part in connection with the work.
Have several copies of the Magazine with you and let the people see what you desire to tell them about the Magazine.: 7.
Wherever you go, let the visit be a pleasant one. Let the brief visit be one of happiness to you and to the one whom you contact.
Consider carefully refusals; there may be some way you can help. 'Take plenty of time to consider all details carefully, be tactful and suggestive, but never try to force others to see as you would like to have them. Generally, visits should be short ones, but on one occasion I took my crocheting with me ahd sat a while in each home visiting a few minutes. In our community everyone is my friend and I wanted to visit with them awhile and also I was walking and would have about three miles or more to go before the afternoon was over. I planned my homework so I could have every Monday afternoon on Magazine work, as it was needed. 8. Be "Magazine Friendly" with the people in your ward the year around. Ask the subscribers if they are getting their Magazines, if they are enjoying them. Did you read this article by —————, or that story by —————-?
Talk about the lessons or Page
520 ORGANIZING THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN 521 other features. By all means, if you place the Magazine in the home of a non-member of the Church, try to call again. Do not let her feel that you just called to sell the Magazine and take her money. Our president asked me to invite the non-members to come out with us, so I usually asked them to visit with us on work-meeting day. G. A good poster in your Church building may be helpful. In the Shelley Stake we have used many posters.
Each ward worker made one or more for her use, and we displayed them all together in a stake display.
Dramatize a feature of the Magazine in a ward Relief Society meeting.
Original or used songs may be presented occasionally by the chorister; songs featuring the Magazine can be introduced in connection with social events. 10.
Occasionally those already subscribing may like to send the Magazine to a friend or relative living in a distant place.
This is a good way to increase your number of subscriptions and also a way to help take the message of the gospel to others.
Last year a number of gifts were placed in homes within our own ward territory. If a person, financially able to subscribe, refuses with the statement that she is too busy to read the Magazine, ask her if she would be willing to make a gift of it to another person. 11.
Keep your work up to date.
Always have a working record for your own benefit as a Magazine worker, listing the expirations which will take place each month and also a list of prospective new subscribers.
Never leave the bulk of your work until December or you will be most certain to fall below the 100 per cent mark.
January is a good time to begin doing what you did not get done the year before. I like a January _Magazine Department in Union Meeting, wherein all ward workers can tell a few ways which they can see wherein they could have improved in their work. It is well to remember that if new subscribers can subscribe before the first of June, they will receive Magazines containing all of the lesson material for the coming year. 12. Let nothing cause you to be timid in your work. It may not be easy, but it is a work wherein there is great joy, and there is a way.
Memorize and repeat over and over to give you courage in your calling the words of Nephi: "And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go and do the thing which the Lord hath commanded, for I know the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them" (I Nephi 3:7). 13.
Work for 100 per cent.
Enjoy your work.
When you have reached the 100 per cent mark do not think that is sufficient, but try for one or two more subscriptions and then for one or two more and on and on as long as there is anything that can be done.
Getting the extra ones is where the fun comes in, and be sure you get in on the fun.
Little by little we climbed last year, in the Firth Ward, until, instead of the 68 subsbcriptions which made our one hundred per cent, we reached the 98 mark. At that point, one evening I was in the presence of our bishop and I mentioned how we had been blessed. The bishop said, "If you could get 102 subscriptions you would have 100 per cent for every Latter-day Saint and part Latter-day Saint family in the ward." I combed the possibilities remaining and went out to try, and the Lord blessed me in my efforts. > <@> «= Radiant Gift Ruth Harwood In the upwelling glory of my mood I would express my fervent gratitude For this dear gift of beauty in the heart, And power to give it utterance in art. Where Love Abideth Alice Whitson Norton N the corner of Gay Street and Mulberry Avenue, as strangely out of place as a bird of paradise on the public market of any thriving city, was a flower shop. A small affair it was, but so bright were its windows, so spotless the inside, and so genial were the elderly couple that ran it, that one thought of the little shop in big proportions. It had caught my attention the first time I had passed by on a small, dinky streetcar that ran out on Gay Street to a substantial residential district, and somehow no matter how often passed, I rarely failed to cast a glance at the little shop. One day when I happened to be driving in, I stopped and bought a few flowers from the old couple running the place, and after that I was a frequent customer. On that first day I learned the elderly couple were depending on that little shop for a living, and earning a living at their age was not such an easy task when one grows one's own flowers.
They hadn't intended this to happen when the little shop and the bright garden were first started. Oh, no!
When the shop and garden were started there had been two sturdy boys with willing hands to do the manual labor of growing. 'Then came World War I and the sturdy young men went bravely marching off, each with a carnation in his buttonhole—and that was the picture the parents held of their sons.
When their names appeared Page 522 among the missing after a bloody battle on the Argonne front, the owners of the small shop found comfort for their wounded hearts in the earth that produced the blossoms and the little shop through which they marketed their wares.
They made no outcry against fate, nor did they go about with long, sad faces.
Their loyal sons had gone West in a great cause and the shop owners must carry on. For years they were up with the dawn, planting and hoeing, clipping and arranging the bright bouquets for the little shop; and far into the night a light could be seen moving over the fertile garden plot back of the small shop. But there came a day when I missed the old couple, and. Curiosity, mixed with genuine interest, prompted me to stop for flowers when I really didn't need them. The "Missus" was sick, a new keeper told me—terribly sick.
There were no funds to hire a nurse, so the old man had stayed at home to look after her, and this new man had taken over the shop. As time went by the little shop began to lose its brightness; the windows became dingy, the flowers wilted in their holders, and the customers in the habit of dropping by for their fresh bouquets began buying elsewhere, and finally one morning I looked out of the trolley window and discovered the door was closed, and on it a pl acard, "For Rent." WHERE LOVE ABIDETH HAT rent sign stirred my heart and set my feet in action, and a few hours later I was knocking on the door of the little house in front of a sadly neglected flower garden several blocks from the little shop. I knew by old Tolly's face that things were in a bad way when he opened the door for me, but he smiled as bravely as a soldier under fire. "Don't tell her," he warned, with a motion toward the room housing his invalid wife, "that the shop is closed. It would break her heart— and I couldn't stand that—" I nodded an agreement and followed the man into a dark room. "This is not my idea of living, Miss Ellen,' Mrs. 'Tolly murmured faintly, "but I have been very ill with fever and it's settled in my eyes. I may become blind—and—" her voice faltered slightly, "I—may never walk again." "Oh, but she speaks so foolish," chuckled the old man. "It is only a matter of time before she will see and walk again, and why.
Should she worry, with the little flower shop moving along so fine?" "She shouldn't worry," I comforted, pondering in my heart at the loyalty of the aged man. "Somehow, some way," he continued, "old Tolly will manage to grow and sell flowers, and care for the Missus." I felt a calloused hand clasp mine and looked down upon the tightly bandaged eyes of Tolly's wife. ~"Where love abjdeth, Miss Ellen," she said softly, "faith can work miracles. My husband has always been like that. His faith is great, and his love is wonderful. 523
Fifty years," she went on, "we have lived together, working side by side, in unity of thought and purpose— now—I am sick and he is carrying the whole burden." "A man," I managed to say, "is supposed to be the stronger of the species, and I am sure Mr.
Tolly will find a way to carry on and provide for you." "Only with flowers," she answered calmly, "can my Tolly earn a decent living for us, and I'm so glad he still has the little shop. Be sure to keep the windows bright, Tolly," she added whimsically. A few weeks later I learned that Mrs. 'Tolly would never walk again, © but her eyesight would be restored.
That was something we had scarcely hoped for. But not walking presented another problem—a wheel chair must be provided, but how? "You cannot know the sorrow in my heart, Miss Ellen," old Tolly whispered, when this discovery was made, "that I am unable to buy the chair. She doesn't dream our funds are gone and the little shop is closed.
What shall I do?' "It isn't what you shall do, Mr. Tolley," I answered, "but what can you do?" "I once made a living selling pencils and shoestrings on the street," he answered with a faint smile. 'But she must never know, Miss Ellen, maybe I can do that again. By leaving home early and coming in late she will think I am but working all the harder with my flowers, see?" "Yes," I said. "I see something I've never seen before—the endurance of true love." 524 FTER that I visited the little house often and listened with genuine joy to the stories Mrs.
Tolly told of her husband's progress in the flower shop alone. "Always," she said, "he brings me a bright flower when he comes in at night, and since he is running the garden alone he is growing many wonderful new species."
That he was buying these wonderful new species with money he had earned from selling pencils and shoestrings I never breathed. It was Tolly's way, not mine, of keeping his life partner happy. By and by the lovely wheel chair became a reality and in a remarkably short time Mrs. 'Tolly was moving about the place with surprising speed. And what she learned to do from that wheel chair would put to shame many a normal woman's effort. The little house was restored to its cheery atmosphere, dust gave way to shining corners and polished furniture; and a sense of quietude and peace enveloped the place to such a degree that I found myself lingering with every visit. Strange, spicy odors often filled the air when I entered the door, and I learned the invalid was at her old tricks of preparing delightful dishes for her household. "She makes them out of almost nothing,' the man informed me, when I sniffed the rich aroma escaping from a hot spice cake. "But he brings in the nothing I demand to make the spice cake out of,' the woman interrupted, "and that is why my heart sings so happily—to think my Tolly can grow and sell flowers," she added thoughtfully, "just as if I were right there RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 helping all the time! It gives me courage to undertake anything, Miss Ellen." A sudden demand for my presence in the East interrupted my little visits for a period of three months, but the first opportunity that came after I returned home to pay a visit to the invalid found me knocking on her door. That Tolly had kept his secret and was providing her with the necessities of life I felt assured at first glimpse of the room.
Fresh flowers filled the vases over the mantel and on the living room table, while the most heavenly odors imaginable penetrated the atmosphere. "What are you up to now?" I inquired after our visit was over. "You wouldn't think I could sit down and leave my Tolly the whole burden, Miss Ellen?" she asked softly. "T don't understand," I countered. "Perhaps you were in the dark, too, Miss Ellen," she whispered softly, "but I found out all by myself that Tolly had lost the shop and the flower garden and was earning a living for me by peddling shoestrings and pencils, and."
Suddenly her face lighted with a glorious smile and her hand closed over mine. "I, too, can play a game, Miss Ellen," she whispered eagerly. "T never let Tolly know I had discovered our loss, but just to pass the time away and make the days shorter when he must be away from home, I make the little spice cakes you smell and sell them through the back door."
Reaching for a little blue-flowered bowl under the edge of the pantry WHERE LOVE ABIDETH him enter a florist shop and a Strange emotion filled My soul. At last, eS ee light Song Lizabeth Wall Let all the noises of night be stilled.
Nothing must Waken my elfin-child, Sleeping where showers of stars have spilled, Nothing must Waken my elfin-child, She who lies curled like a slim, brown leaf, Hush, little night birds and wandering winds, Let all your songs be soft and brief. Hush, little night birds and wandering winds, Turn all your songs into lullabies, Nothing must Wwaken my elfin-child Till the morning kisses her shadowed eyes, R enascenc e Marian Schroder Crothers Grieve not, when I am gone, That I no more shall hear On some bright, cloudless day, The lark's song, crystal clear. My heart, temembering The lovely song he sings, Will joyously awake In some eternal spring.
Shings fo — ber Eleanor W. Schow Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" PRIDE, HOW SHALL WE DEFINE IT: In my opinion dignity and selfrespect belong to the Deity. Did not Jesus say, "Be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect?"' In this we learn that God is our Father. Accordingly, those who believe this and obey his commandments will obtain his spirit which when it is obtained they will find it gives them dignity and self-respect, for these are attributes of the Deity and not pride as one may suppose.
Vanity and self-conceit are dangerous properties. Why should one become vain because he has arrived at some attainment which another has not. He may fill another position the first is not capable of filling —Mary AN INTERESTING TIME: In company with Mrs. Jane S. Richards, First Counselor to Mrs, Zina D. H. Young, we left on Thursday, August 7 to visit the sisters in Iron County and attend Conference in that Stake. We reached Cedar City Friday evening after a drive of fifty-five miles.
Saturday we met with the Relief Society of Cedar. We met with the Relief Society of Beaver Stake and there were about as many men as women present. We noticed in the audience Elders Daniel Tyler, Wm. Fotheringham, Benjamin Bennett and other prominent brethren, among them Brother Shepherd an old-time Elder in Israel. 'Tuesday morning we left Beaver and met with the Relief Society at Minersville. We saw Mrs. Elizabeth Gilbert, one of the oldest members of the Church, the widow of Sidney Gilbert prominent in the days of Kirtland and also in the persecutions of the Church in Missouri. Mrs.
Gilbert has just passed her ninetieth birthday Aug. 7, she is not feeble as one might expect, she talks well, told us she was baptized into the Church in 1830 and had never been reproved or brought before the teachers or authorities in all those sixty years.
After the meeting in Minersville we turned our faces homeward. It is exceedingly pleasant and interesting to travel among the people and see them in their homes and assemblies. The Relief Society and other organizations are doing great good in the midst of the Saints wherever they are located. SUPPLICATION Lord thou who see'st all my heart, And know'st my every thought: Help me to do thy holy will And serve Thee as I ought. And when my path seems dark and wild, And hope burns low within; Look down upon Thine erring child, And keep my heart from sin. —Charity DEFINITION OF POLITICAL ECONOMY: There is no wealth but life. Life, including all its powers of love, of joy and admiration.
That country is the richest which nourishes the greatest number of noble and happy human beings; that man is the richest who, having perfected the function of his own life to the utmost, has also the wisest helpful influence, both personal and by means of his possessions, over the lives of others. A strange political economy founded on self-interest being the fulfillment of that which once brought schism into the policy of angels and ruin into the economy of heaven."—Ruskin Page 526 | wet E lst of this year, Mabel Young Sanborn, last living child of President Brigham Young, unveiled the statue of her f ather during impressive ceremonies in Statuary Hall, Washington, D. C.
This beautiful piece of work, created by Mahonri Young, grandson of Brigham Young, now takes its place among the statues of other great figures of American history. BBIE S. YOUNG is the only living daughter-in-law of President Brigham Young.
Married to Brigham Young, Jr., she was left a widow with seven children at the age of thirty-three. Now eighty, she still does beautiful needlework and is writing an autobiography and a biography of her grandparents. ARGARET CHASE SMITH, our Nation's only woman senator, recently pleaded the supreme need for a high sense of honor and justice, and a deep insight into our country's needs to transcend party loyalties.
There is talk of Senator Smith's being nominated as vicepresident of the United States. Much-enjoyed Latter-day Saint author, Merling Dennis Clyde, died last May. For many years she was a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine. Her poetry is parWoman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon ticularly uplifting and inspirational in tone. INNER of the Frank W. Darling Memorial Prize ($50) for a single sonnet, sponsored by the Poetry Society of Virginia, is our own Eva Willes Wangsgaard of Ogden, with her offering "No Barren Bough." | BiLLEN ROMNEY SCHOFIELD, eighty-six, recently died in Los Angeles.
Daughter of Vilate Ellen Romney and Bishop George Romney, Sister Schofield was active in Church work, particularly Relief Society, until her death, and left behind her a host of friends. HE general board has been happy to learn that the Female Samaritan Association, with aims very much like those of the Relief Society, has celebrated its one hundred and twenty-second birthday, having been organized in Portland, Maine, March 4, 1828. It is still active in spiritual and physical charities. So far as is known the Latter-day Saint Relief Society, organized in 1842, is the oldest women's organization of national and _international scope that has persisted. If anyone knows anything to the contrary, the general board would be glad to be given this information. Page 527 Q-> EDITORIAL ory 
VOL. 37 AUGUST 1950
Work is a Blessing "Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness."' HERE is a dangerous wave of thinking in our world today which regards work as punishment, as an evil to be avoided. The present tendency seems to be the desire to avoid work, to seek continually for shorter hours, fewer work days, easier tasks, less responsibility—all of these so-called "benefits" to be accompanied by higher compensation. The substance of the matter seems to be a philosophy of giving less and receiving more—of gaining something for nothing. This is a law of 'diminishing returns, a negative and a destructive philosophy. It is the philosophy of the destroyer—not the faith of the builder. Many rich rewards are promised by people who seem to think that wealth and happiness can _ be achieved without effort. We are told that in the perfect society very little work will be necessary. "The necessity of toil is a superstition,' some social planners would have us believe. "That man is expected to work for a living is an absurdity in this age. We must abandon the superstition of the morality of toil and the nonsense of trying to earn a living." Latter-day Saints, as well as other people all over the world, are being subjected to this type of philosophy, and some of them are giving crePage 528 —Thomas Carlyle dence to beliefs that are entirely alien to the teachings of the gospel. According to our doctrine, no earthly kingdom and no heavenly kingdom, can be built without sustained and noble effort. No individual can achieve earthly development or salvation in heaven without work. Rather than seeking to avoid labor, we should seek out the tasks which are commensurate with our strength and our ability, and we should seek even that work which is beyond our present capabilities that we may grow and become "rich in good works." From the very beginning of the Church we have been instructed in the gospel of work. Our communities were built and our valleys made fruitful by the labor of the hands of our forefathers and we shall ourselves become strong and happy only by our own efforts. Brigham Young explained this fundamental belief in simple words of great power: This people are increasing in the wis: dom which cometh from God, and their power to organize the crude elements... Into the necessities of life is in ratio to their increase of intelligence and application of labor.... I do not look for power from the heavens that will produce for us wool, cloth, iron, food, or anything we need, without being made with hands. We should understand what is required of us to sustain ourselves (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 262).
EDITORIAL We must all be as strong and as self-supporting as we can be, or there will occur a great disintegration of society caused by the dependence of too many people upon the few who have maintained their integrity through the use of their intelligence and their ability and desire to work. It is evident all around us that some people are cartying a great load of responsibility while others are not even doing their own share. 529
The great commandment which was given to our first parents has never been withdrawn, and its application is of equal force in this our time: And it came to pass that Adam began to till the earth... And to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow, as the Lord had commanded him. And Eve, also, his wife, did labor with him'' (Peail of Great Price, Moses 5:1). —V. P. C.
Centennials for 1950 HIS important milestone in the middle of the twentieth century marks the one hundredth anniversary of many events in Church history.
Several mission centennials are being commemorated this year, celebrating the carrying of the gospel to those far countries, honoring the memories of the first missionaries and the saints who have since become members of the Church. EK NE hundred years ago, on June 14, 1850, the Northland was opened as a mission by the apostle, Erastus Snow, accompanied by Elders John E.
Forsgren and George P. Dykes. Elder Peter O.
Hansen was already laboring among his relatives and friends in Scandinavia, and thus began the marvelous work which, over the years, has resulted in bringing much strength to the Church. When Elder John E.
Forsgren baptized his brother Peter near Gefle, Sweden, in July 1850, the first of thousands of converts accepted the gospel. Hans F. Petersen, the first missionary to Norway, arrived in that country in September 1851. A 1950 survey of 681 wards of the Church reveals that forty-four per cent of the membership was found to be of Scandinavian or part Scandinavian descent.
From these loyal and gifted people have come many of our ablest and most dependable workers in the wards and branches of the Church. In June i950, Elder John A.
Widtsoe sailed from New York City on his way to attend mission centennial celebrations in Copenhagen, Stockholm, and Oslo. * *K T' the small seaport town of Boulogne-sur-Mer in northern France, three Latter-day Saint missionaries arrived on June 18, 1850.
They were John 'Taylor, who was later to become President of the Church, and his companions, Elders Curtis E.
Bolton and William Howells. 'They were joined a few days later by Elder John Pack.
Many times during the century, work in this mission was interrupted and many obstacles blocked the path of the missionaries, but, in 1912, the French Mission was formally organ- 530 ized by President Rudger Clawson of the European Mission. In the ensuing years chapels were built, the mission paper, l'Etoile was printed, and considerable progress has been made. Xk k & mission to the Hawaiian Islands was established in December of 1950, when ten men, Hiram Clark, Thomas Whittle, H. W. Bigler, Thomas Morris, John Dixon, 'William Farrer, James Hawkins, Hiram Blackwell, George QO. Cannon, and Thomas Keeler arrived in Honolulu. The first branch was organized at Kulu on the Island of Maui by Elder George OQ.
Cannon in 1851. Elder Cannon translated the Book of Mormon into the Hawaiian language. Also, in 1851, two Latter-day Saint women accompanied their husbands to the islands.
They were Mrs. Philip B.
Lewis and Mrs. Francis A. Hammond. Later, Mrs. John S.
Woodbury joined her husband in Hawaii.
This mission has been continuous and one of the most successful in the Church. As Elder Cannon so well expressed it, the spirit of the gospel was carried with strength and conviction to the islands of the sea: My prayer was that the time might speedily come when all should know the Lord, and when His knowledge should cover the earth as the waters covered the deep; and I believed in uniting works and faith. * oe N this same eventful year of 1850 missionaries began to preach the gospel in several other countries. A small branch was organized in Dublin, Ireland, by Elder Edward Sutherland. Lorenzo Snow, an apostle, at that time, accompanied by EldRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 ers Joseph Toronto and Thomas B. H. Stenhouse, arrived in Genoa, Italy, in June, and began missionary work. Thomas B. Stenhouse, later in the year, was ordained to open the Swiss mission and, in December, he began to preach the gospel in Geneva. Jabez Woodard, who arrived in Italy in September, was called in November to preside over mission activities in that country. * Ke pss 15, 1950, was a memorable day for the Church paper, The Deseret News, which on that day celebrated the completion of a century of publication.
Beginning its work of inspiring, educating, and informing the people only three years after the arrival of the pioneers in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, this paper has accurately and vividly recorded the growth of a people and the establishment of a commonwealth in the valleys of the mountains; it has recorded, also, the history of the spreading of the gospel to the far corners of the earth a nd the gathering of many saints to the promised valleys.
The NewSy while looking backward with pride on its outstanding achievements, is well aware of its responsibility to the future. The Centennial editorial presents a challenging preview:
The century to come opens a vista of tremendously augmented power. . . . The proper use of that power — ^be it atomic, electrical, poHtical, or spiritual — is man's responsibility. Man's wisdom in using increased power . . . will determine the shape of the century to come. ... In its second century, the Deseret News proposes to continue its devotion to the tried and true principles: TRUTH AND LIBERTY.

EDITORIAL
531
AMONG other historical events in the ever-widening frontiers of important to Latter-day Saints in America, the year 1850 was the settlement of The University of Utah also cele-
Lehi, American Fork, Pleasant brated its Centennial in 1950, and Grove, Little Salt Lake Valley, Pay- now, at the turn of its second censon, and Ogden. Many exploring par ties traveled extensively over the Great Basin. Hundreds of English saints arrived in Great Salt Lake Valley. In September the Congress of the United States passed an act establishing the Territory of Utah, and more than a month later the news of this event reached the Valtury, looks forward to even greater service. This pioneer institution was discussed in an editorial in the May issue of The Reliei Society
Magazine.
At this time, as Relief Society women, we are impressed with the accomplishments of our people in ley. Brigham Young was appointed the past one hundred years, and we governor. Parley's Canyon was op- realize anew the importance of ened to travel through the Wasatch time, and of our own brief place in Mountains, and Parley Pratt named the swift passing of the years. The this road "The Golden Pass." It century that lies ahead will no doubt became an important route for emi- give us and our children great opgration to the Pacific Coast, and was portunities and great responsibilities, thus established as a "golden" link —V. P. C.
» ♦ »
JUotAer—lPl ioneer
Dorothy J. Roberts
From nine to ninety, what a light loaf grew
Under her kneading into famous bread.
And always at seven, twelve, and half-past five,
Sure, and good as seasons, was her table spread.
More than ninety years she held her beauty clean;
And white and shining were her face and hair.
And fresh as a maiden on an Easter morn,
She graced, at ninety-one, her rocking chair.
The fine, burled walnut of her bridal bed.
Darkened with time into a soft repose,
Still handsome, sturdy and unmarred by years.
Blessed her slumber to its peaceful close.
L^omplacent
BeuJah Huish Sadleir
I have a handkerchief pinned to my dress-
For fear I shall lose it, "
Like all of the rest.
I have a memory pinned to my No cause to worry —
The pin is a dart. heartioeauty 0/5 in (bverything
Gene Romolo
Beauty is in everything
Molded by the hand of God,
From mankind, his masterpiece,
To the emerald-bladed sod,
But only faith-filled eyes can see
Its imprint of divinity.

American Pottery and Porcelain
Part I
Rachel K. Laurgaard
JlJustrations by Elizabeth Williamson
FOR a good many years Ameri- A hundred years later a famous cans showed little interest in English potter, William Cooktheir native pottery makers, worthy, informs us that American
From the day that Mary Chilton potters were doing a high quality
Winslow and Priscilla Mullins Al- of work. He wrote to a friend in den set out their sturdy English 1745, that the potters of Virginia pewter to receive the first meal were producing ''china ware. . . ." cooked in their new homes, and, equal to the Asiatic from "petuntse for almost a hundred years there- and kaolin" to be found "in the after, hardly a mention is made of back of Virginia." The Cherokee the men or establishments which natives called the clay "unaker/' and supplied the earthen pots in which several English firms— Bow, Worthese good wives must have cooked cester, Bristol, and Wedgwood— their beans, the vessels which they seem to have been importing it for used for carrying water, or the crocks use in their china making. A numfor storing butter, pickles, or oysters, ber of Staffordshire potters immi-
Yet, the Virginia Colony is sup- grated to North Carolina and set up posed to have had commercial pot- a pottery, and even the eminently teries by 1650, and lists of Dutch successful Josiah Wedgwood was settlers in New York contain names fearful lest they might eventually of "Pot-Bakers" as early as 1657. capture his large American market.
Perhaps the Pilgrim father accepted He could not foresee that American
"pot-baking" as his responsibility housewives were to continue their during the cold and confining New prejudice in favor of English wares
England winters or, perhaps, a and against American for many genneighboring farmer turned out erations to come. Josiah Wedgcrocks to barter for other household wood need not have wo rried! A necessities. At any rate, the task hundred and fifty years later, the dewas not considered worthy of his- scendants of those Staffordshire imtorical mention. migrants were still practicing their In 1684, Daniel Coxe of Burhng- family trade in the mountains of ton. New Jersey, set up a pottery North Carolina, with their mounwhich, tradition states, turned out taineer neighbors as their only cus-
"white stoneware," probably of the tomers. One old potter, ironically salt-glazed type, which was being enough, was named Josiah Wedgproduced by contemporary Stafford- wood Sheffield! He pronounced it shire potters. No known examples "Shuffle." of his handiwork have come down Potters from Staffordshire had to us. settled in New York, Pennsylvania,
Page 532

AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN
533 and New Jersey, also, and the socalled ''Pennsylvania Dutch" ware, with its interesting tulip and bird designs, was inspired, probably, as much by the slip ware of Staffordshire as the faience of Germany and Holland. It was made in the same manner as its European forerunner, with yellow slip trailed onto red earthenware or, occasionally, a light background, decorated with a darker design. Pieces marked ''Mary's
Dish," "Baby's Dish," "Mince Pie,"
"Shoofly," or merely dates and initials, indicate that much of this slip ware was made for gifts. nPHE Revolution started a "Buy
American" movement and, for a time, it looked as though the American ceramic industry was to have its chance at last. A pottery established at Bennington, Vermont, in 1793, was one of the most successful. At first, ordinary red earthenware was made, but after the discovery of a kaolin bed at Monkton, Vermont, in 1810, better things were produced, among them, yellowware, made of clay which burned buff color instead of red,
Rockingham, which was yellowware with a dark brown mottled glaze, and Parian ware, the product which made the Bennington factory famous. Parian is an unglazed white, soft porcelain or bone china, and had been a popular product of the eighteenth century French factories and, later, the Spode factory of England. Lovely vases, pitchers, and small figures were produced at Bennington, many of them ornately modeled, and sometimes tinted to resemble Wedgwood's jasper ware.
In 1825, the Jersey Porcelain and Earthenware Company began making the first true porcelain to be produced in the United States. Other factories in New Jersey and around Philadelphia had hopeful beginnings, also, only to be spurned by the housewife for the floods of English cream-colored ware shipped over by Wedgwood and his fellow business men. They catered to the patriotism of the new nation with portraits of Revolutionary heroes and battle scenes, even depicting their own generals in humiliated defeat, in their determination to retain the American market.
Then came the spacious days of the clipper ships, when American china cupboards were stocked with oriental porcelains which sea-faring
BENNINGTON VASE
Nineteenth Century American

534
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1950
PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH PLATE husbands brought home from their long voyages. ''Buy American'' was forgotten, and even the Bennington factory had to turn out its fine products unmarked, for fear that the ladies might turn aside unless they could be led to believe that it was made in England.
White House china purchases reflected the attitude of the times.
Martha Washington used gold and white Sevres for best and blue and white Nanking ware for everyday.
Dolly Madison also favored French wares. During John Quincy
Adam's administration, Congress passed a law requiring that White
House furnishings be Americanmade when possible. In spite of this, no domestic china was considered suitable for formal State dinners throughout many administrations to come. The best that could be done in that regard, from Lincoln's to Garfield's era, was to use the French products of the American Mr. Haviland. At last, when
President and Mrs. Wilson needed a new State dinner service, a true
American product, Lenox china, was found to equal the finest wares of any nation, and, since that time, the White House has been proud to ''Buy American."
TOURING the years when the frontier was pushing westward,
American ceramic efforts dwindled to the production of kitchen dishes, purchased from the peddler, who became the chief outlet for the potteries of the New Jersey, Ohio, and West Virginia districts. Many of these kilns had been set up by immigrant potters from England, who saw no reason why the good clays of America could not be utilized with as much financial success as those of the Old Country. They soon found that the transfer-printed wares of Staffordshire came first in the hearts of our pioneer grandmothers, even in the backwoods of Ohio and Illinois, so they confined their efforts to providing a serviceable white kitchenware which they variously called white granite, stone china, or ironstone. Some of it was decorated with underglaze printing, but the great mass was of an ugly blue-white, without decoration of any sort. The idea that even common kitchen utensils could be beautiful had not yet taken hold.

An ever-increasing population needed dishes, however, so the Ohio-West Virginia potteries prospered. Today, this area contains around a hundred and twenty-five ceramic plants, turning out many varieties of wares, chiefly of the moderate to inexpensive type. Hotel china, a hard and completely vitrified product, is made by many companies. For home use, such firms as Homer Laughlin, Steubenville, Salem China Company, and the American Limoges Company are paying increased attention to beautiful shape and graceful decoration, for even their most inexpensive products.