[Social Science: The First Earth Government by Archibald F. Bennett]

Government for the Benefit of Man LL mankind, both in this world and in the worlds to come, must be subject to law and regulation. The Lord has declared: All kingdoms have a law given; And there are many kingdoms; for there is no space in the which there is no kingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space, either a greater or a lesser kingdom. And unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions. All beings who abide not in those conditions are not justified (D. & C. 88:36-39).
This is just as true of the kingdom—or government—of man as it is of any other kingdom.
Government is instituted for the benefit of man.
Where there is no government anarchy and chaos inevitably rule. A despotic government is better than no government at all, although it is verily true that "when the wicked rule the people mourn" (D. & C. 98:9). Man has never learned to live without some form of government with authority delegated to representatives to enforce the law. Nor will such a condition ever come.
There must be laws and officers to enforce them, to secure to mankind any semblance of peace and safety, even where the most unsatisfactory governments prevail. The entire universe is governed by law.
Divine authority is manifest in the heavens. The perfect order by which the stars move in their times and seasons proclaims the majesty and power of the Almighty.
Divine authority is manifest in all the laws by which this earth is governed. We are wont to speak of this authority as that of the "laws of nature." 'The laws of nature are simply. The laws of God.
These laws are immutable because they are divine. It is impossible for a man to escape the observance of divine law. He may rebel against the keeping of one law, but in the violation of it he comes face to face with some other law which he is.
Forced to obey.
Thus he discovers that in the violation of law he is not justified., Of all our Father's creations men stand out practically alone as.
Rebellious against divine authority and commandment.
Notwithstanding the rebellious nature of most men, it is the purpose of the Lord | to make them as happy as he can LESSON DEPARTMENT in accordance with divine law. In keeping with the great work and glory of the Father, he will bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. Moreover, since the purpose of life is that man may have joy, the Father will give to all just as many blessings as it is possible for him to give according to their works. Man Is a Social Being, and Cannot Live Alone Man cannot live alone, isolated from all other human beings. It was decreed from the pre-existence that men should live in social relationships upon this earth. We lived that way in the spirit world. We will live in communities, cities, states, and kingdoms after the resurrection of the dead. The family is the unit of the social order. The family organization with its power of increase is a blessing reserved for those who enter the highest degree of the celestial kingdom. Nevertheless, there will be organization and government and obedience to law, and the enforcement of law, in all other kingdoms. The First Government of Divine Origin The Lord instituted the first government when he commissioned Adam and Eve and gave them dominion over all the earth. 'They were instructed by revelation and the appearance of heavenly messengers.
Celestial law was given them and they were commanded to teach it to their children. The gospel has been taught from the beginning.
Angels were sent to 569
Adam to proclaim it. Every principle of truth essential to man's welfare on this earth as well as in eternity was made known. All precautions and warnings necessary to guard him against temptation and evil were given so that he could, if he desired, know and walk in the truth. The gospel was received by Adam and Eve with gladness. This earth was prepared for the habitation of the sons and daughters of God, so that they could all pass through mortality and here gain the experience so essential to advancement on to perfection, after the resurrection from the dead. Adam and Eve were placed at the head, and given the responsibility of introducing the mortal life, and making it possible for all the spirits who were assigned to this earth to come in their proper times and seasons, to obtain the experience here awaiting them. When Adam was driven out of the Garden of Eden and from the presence of the Lord, because of his transgression, the Lord sent angels to instruct him. He was taught the plan of the gospel and how, in the meridian of time, Jesus Christ would come to make amends for that transgression. When this information was received Adam rejoiced, and the darkness and the gloom, which surrounded him after he had been driven out from the presence of the Father and had become spiritually dead, was dissolved, and he rejoiced saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. 570
And Eve, his - wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgression we never should have — had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:10-11). Adam Had a Perfect Government The Father conferred upon Adam the Priesthood, and_ established with him and his posterity a perfect form of government.
This government was a theocracy. Men holding the Priesthood ruled under direct revelation and commandment. Jesus Christ, who created the earth, was the rightful Ruler.
After the transgression of man the Redeemer became the Advocate for man with the Father, and from that day on was, and is, the rightful Mediator for all mankind.
Although he had not, at that time, obtained the stage of earth life, and had not a body of flesh and bones, yet he was the Creator and rightful Ruler of the earth. He it was who gave the law to Adam and to all the prophets, and while a government was established among mortals on the earth, yet it was their bounden duty to accept the rule and guidance of Jesus Christ. The government was patriarchal and the Priesthood ruled. Man was in all respects accountable to God, for "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof; the world and they that dwell therein" (Psalms 24:1). It is his, for he made it, and while rebellion has come and men have set up governments of their own, rejecting the divine guidance of the rightful King, yet he has never relinquished his claim and surrendered  his place to the authority of mortals upon the earth. The First Man Highly Intelligent The first man placed upon this earth was an intelligent being, created in the image of God, possessed of wisdom and knowledge, with power to communicate his thoughts in a language, both oral and written, which was superior to anything to be found upon the earth today.
This may sound very sweeping and dogmatic to those who hold to the other view, but it is not any more so than their statements to the contrary. The Lord has said it; and surely the Creator, above all others, ought to know! The first man was instructed by the best Teacher man ever had, for he was taught of God, and spoke the langauge of the Most High, in which angels conversed. 'This language he taught to his children. It is true that he was left to work out, through the use of his faculties, many of nature's great secrets; but the Lord did not leave him helpless, but instructed him, and he was inspired by the Spirit of the Lord. We should be humble enough to accept what the Lord has revealed to his servants, in preference to the theories of uninspired men, who in our great age of wonderful discovery, are ever learning, but never coming to a knowledge of the truth that saves.
They rely on their own judgment, and are often mistaken in their theories and led astray, being forced from time to time to modify, change, and even reverse their teachings, as new discoveries are made.
LESSON DEPARTMENT In the Pearl of Great Price— which every Latter-day Saint accepts as the word of the Lord—the following very significant statement is found: And then began these men to call upon the name of the Lord, and the Lord blessed them; And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration; And by them their children were taught to read and wnite, having a_ language which was pure and undefiled (Moses 6:4-6). All Races of One Blood All those who accept the scriptural story of creation understand that the peopling of this earth commenced after Adam and Eve were driven from the Garden of Eden after their fall. 'The Bible does not give us any adequate account of the fulfillment of the commandment given to our first parents to multiply. It mentions only three children born to this first couple, and all three of these were sons. The incomplete story of how Cain killed his brother Abel, and then journeyed to the land of Nod where he knew his wife, has led many to believe that there were human beings upon the earth other than the descendants of Adam and Eve.
Such a thought is in conflict with the thread of genealogical descent as it is portrayed in all ages of holy writ. In the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, these matters are made perfectly clear.
Adam and Eve were the parents of many sons and daughters, most of whom rebelled against the teachings of their 571 righteous parents.
Cain married his brother's daughter, and there were many who followed him. However, from this first family have come all the families of the earth, notwithstanding the great differences in race and color.
These variations in color and race have come because of transgression and because the Al mighty has placed marks upon certain tribes and peoples. - Thoughts for Discussion 1.
Have a class member read _ beforehand and report at this session on the character, power, Priesthood, and learning of Adam as revealed in these passages: Moses 6:4-6, 46, 51-59; D. & C. 29:39-43; 88:112-115; 107:40-43; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 157- 159, 167-169, 2.
Show the truth of this profound statement: "Government is instituted for the benefit of man."
Accepting this, name types of government which have flourished in the past, which have not benefited man, and hence were not acceptable. 3.
Prove that the universe could not exist without law and government. 4. Is a poor government better than no government at all? 5.
Describe the kind of government given to our first parents. Why did it not endure?
Would that system of government be effective today? 6.
Comment on the declaration: "Man cannot live alone, isolated from all other human beings.... The family is the unit of the social order," 7.
Define the terms "'theocracy," "joy," "immortality," "eternal life," "patriarchal government," "despotism." 8.
What facts have been revealed concerning the language of Adam?
Does this harmonize with the teachings of some scientists? G.
What new facts are found in the Pearl of Great Price regarding the family of Adam? 
572 
Mlusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1950-51
Lesson 2—'Baton Patterns and Their Application" Florence J]. Madsen Objective: To learn and apply the language of the baton. "The chief art of learning is to attempt but little at a time." Locke. A O learn baton patterns and to become able to use them artfully is accomplished only by careful and continual practice. The new lesson material will be better understood if the important points of the preceding lesson have been reviewed. 1. Preliminaries to Baton Technique (a) Obtain a baton of light weight and texture, about eighteen inches long. (b) Place the thick end or bulb of it against the palm of right hand and not merely between fingers (if left-handed, reverse procedure); close the fingers around it naturally. (c) Hold it firmly in the hand; raise to the front of you with outstretched arm; extend and point it outward on the level of your eye; raise it as high as your arm and baton will reach; lower it as far as it will go; repeat these motions several times; in the meantime, keep the arm and wrist from bending unnecessarily. (d) When this long - (maximum) stroke has thus been practiced, gradually reduce its length until only the forearm is necessary. (1). Avoid pressing the elbows against the body. Pressure of the arms against the side of the body limits the free motion of the baton; it restrains the natural responsiveness of the performers and disturbs the tranquility of the listeners. (2) Guard against upward and outward extension and motion of the elbows. 2. The Two-Four (2/4) Baton Pattern At the bottom of the vertical stroke make a curve in the shape of a fishhook, or a "J" turned to the right. Bring the baton back up out of the curve along the same vertical track in which it descended. Continue this motion up to the place where the down stroke was started. A continuation of these motions downward into the curve and back up establishes a definite track. This track is known as a baton pattern; this particular pattern ls called the 2/4 pattern. All rhythms with the figure 2 as the upper number of the thythm signature, and also the short Alla Breve, explained in Lesson 1, are conducted with this pattern. All rhythms can thus be indicated by certain definite baton patterns. In this connection, study chapter one in our textbook, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall. 3. Application of the 2/4
Baton Pattern (a) Turn to the following hymns: Latter-day Saint Hymns (green book), PPp- 13, 18, 25, 26, 44, 47> 51, 55> Deseret Sunday School Songs, pp. 3, LESSON DEPARTMENT 22, 39, 44, 48, 53, 56, 60, 240, 241, 277, 284. Hymns (new L. D. S. Book), pp. 7, 12, 17, 21, 35, 41, 62, 89, 138, 147. (b) Practice songs in the order listed. (c) Use baton as described and directed above. (d) Use maximum baton pattern for songs that require volume like "Praise to the Man"; use medium (forearm) baton pattern for those requiring less volume like "Come Unto Jesus." (e) Avoid rigidity in arm, wrist, hand, or fingers. (f) Use only the hand holding the baton for the present time. (g) Practice slowly at first, then increase the tempo (speed of rhythm) to the normal tempo required by the song. Practice frequently before a mirror. (See textbook, chapter 1, paragraph 8.) (h) 4. Correlation of Song Material and the Practice Periods (a) Select songs that will correlate with the different lesson subjects. (b) Use the two practice periods each month. Learn some new hymns from available song books. 5. Accompanists Accompanists as well as potential conductors should study and practice these lessons to become thoroughly acquainted with baton technique and interpretation. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What type of baton should be used for conducting? A. How should the baton be held? B. Discuss the purpose of its use. C. Name a few important factors in baton technique. 2. What difficulties result from the arm being pressed against the body while conducting? Bring your hymn books and baton to all music departmental meetings. 573
Favorite 3—ParteAnthems for Singing -Mothers 1451
Bless This House—Brahe $.15 20293
Eye Hath Not Seen—Gau_ 12 R2782
God Painted a Picture— DeRose.20 531
Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs.15 7876
How Beautiful Upon the Mountains—Harker 16 7002
Just for Today—Seaver.18 1776
The King of Glory—Parks.._.._.. 20 4071
The Lord Bless You—Lutkin.15 52
The Lord's Prayer—Gates 18 7987
The Lord's Prayer—Malotte.20 6050 My Task—Ashford -___ 12 4070
That Sweet Story of Old— West ___ --------------nnneenne-nnneeee 10 MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL Mail Orders Filled Promptly WE PAY POSTAGE We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. (> FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH: é MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 
514 
Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 539) of you. I meant to speak to you that night, but the girl gave me pause." "T thought you were talking about Mrs. Hartley," said Edith swiftly. "Jane Hartley?" "So did Linnie.
That was why she was displeased. She did not like Jane so very well. She said afterwards she wished I were the one—" "Oh," said Cory, light dawning upon him. "I should have known that if I weren't such a dunderhead. 'he crowd has been trying to marry us off, Jane and me, for years. I am afraid she contributed a little to the idea herself. I felt like a heel not to.
They are such good friends, and I like Jane—she's a fine woman. I felt a little obligated to—at least not to humiliate her in any way," he floundered. "I might have even wound up marrying Jane. Oh, I wasn't committed in any way, and I am a man who likes to do my own choosing, but I told myself a man could do worse, and the crowd wanted it so. And then you came. It was out, from then on. [t—that was the reason I wanted you to be the hostess at my dinner party—to sort of let the crowd know." "And they mistook me for sister-in-law," Edith explained. "They didn't!" "Yes, they did—from Linnie calling me Aunt Edith, you know. Mrs.
Gooding let me know that the match between you and Jane was in the offing. I think she wanted me to help promote it." your "Qh, horrors!" groaned Cory. "So that explains the sudden formality immediately after the dinner." "Exactly," said Edith. "Oh, I couldn't bear it, Cory. I was jealous through and through, and when Linnie—" "T know." said Cory. "I felt that way about her mother, that I would never love again. I searched my nature, and postponed talking to you for that reason as well as because | didn't want to complicate things for Linnie. It was her show. The obligation of the parent, you know." "T know." "It was a postponement, though, never a doubt. Not from that first morning when you shook hands with me. An ordinary person, applying for a like situation, would not have done that. I have thought of you since—putting your hand in mine." "IT must tell you, Cory—" "What—a past—?" "Yes, indeed—four sons, you know, and four grandchildren." "I knew about them. All fine fellows I am _ sure, all married, though—no real place in their lives for mother. Oh, it is normal enough, and as it should be. I can't wait to meet all my inheritance. I want to share them with you, Edith, as you have shared my Linnie. I guess a man always wants sons." "There's more," Edith told him fearfully. "I promised to help Kit's wife when her baby comes." "Soon?" "Not for months." DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS "Well, she can come to the house," Cory said comfortably. "That house needs a birth. We've gone through a marriage and a death in it.
Those are the roots that sink deep, Edith. But perhaps we'd rather sell it, buy a smaller, more modern one." "Oh, no!" said Edith quickly. "That house is home to me and to my furniture." "Oh, it is, is it?"
Cory asked, with a twinkle of pleased amusement. "And so you were jealous of Jane?" He reached for her then, his arm strong around her, his palm on her cheek, moving to tilt her face to his. "T knew it! I knew it!" he whispered. "You fit my arms as neatly as you fit my life, Edith. I have watched your graceful movements, the contour of your lips with a good deal of hunger, my dear." "And I," said Edith. "Oh, we're going to be a great pair, we two," Cory exulted. "With so much we can do together. Now, tomorrow—"' "Yes," said Edith, feeling the lift of wings, mentally.
Surveying the bright field of her future before her. "Tomorrow!" (The end) = +> Below the Tlounta in C. Cameron Johns I remember the highways - Reaching long arms to the world; I remember the rooftops multicolored, Covering the quiet people. I remember the willows, red-stockinged, Wading the reedy swampland; I remember all the wide valley floor And the unfettered spring of my youth.
575 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built —— All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Professional and Social Si fationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah From Near and Sar I like the January (1950) cover, those snow-covered pines look so peaceful, and the poem "The Singing Snow" (by Lael W. Hill) is a fine poem. I can close my eyes and see those majestic snow-capped peaks and that eagle soaring around. An outstanding article is "Relief Society Women as Mothers in Zion." I like this talk by President Smith and feel much better for having read it. It inspires me to try harder to be a better mother and makes my desire even 3 ae to be a member of the Relief Society.... The first prize poem "Desert Pioneer" is beautiful and I can just see the woman and live her life as she lived it, feel the anxiety, su-- spense, doubt, and the courage and faith to overcome. It is a mighty fine poem. I liked the first prize story "Grass in the Market Place" (by Dorothy Clapp Robinson). Also I like very much the serial story "Dark in the Chrysalis" (by Alice Morrey Bailey) and "You Can Learn" (by Katherine Kelly) is plenty interesting. ""Woman's Sphere" (by Ramona W. Cannon) is always entertaining and I like to see the pictures from the stakes in "Notes From the Field." In the February (1950) issue the article by Elder Ezra Taft Benson "Preservation of Our Blessings of Freedom'' is one of the best. If there were only some way to get every man and woman to read this address. The people of America are getting too careless and unconcerned. I fear greatly for American freedom if there isn't a change made. The article on oriental china (by Rachel K. Laurgaard) is interesting to me as I am a lover of antiques. But oh, the story "I Know Where You Are" (by Inez Bagnell), how I love that story. I can just see that precious little old lady sitting in her rocking chair. The "Letter From Mother'— how true and wise. And "Early Spring Planting" (by Hazel D. Moyle)—that is right up my alley as I think I was born with a "green thumb." —Mrs. Shelby Echols Glenwood, Arkansas /6 In the May issue of the Magazine (page 308), it reads that Toquerville, Utah, was named for a French explorer. This is not so. Scouts came through here in 1852 and in 1857 and in 1858
Brigham Young sent Joshua T. Willis and company here to make a settlement. When they arrived here there were Indians camping on the streams. 'There was an Indian chief living here in a hut made from cane leaves, etc. His name was 'Toquer—meaning black. The mountain east of us is black volcanic rock and it was a very fitting name. It was called Toquer, and later the ''ville' was added. Toquerville was never named after a French explorer. —Mrs. Rhea Wakeling, Toquerville, Utah I borrowed two issues of The Relief Society Magazine and, finding out how wonderful this Magazine really is, I feel I cannot be without it in my home. Enclosed is $3 for which please send a two-year subscription. —Mts. C. J. Rybok, Glenwood, Minnesota It will seem strange to you receiving a letter from me, but I really feel I must write and tell you how much I appreciate reading The Relief Society Magazine. I am an English girl, married during the war to a Dutchman serving in the Dutch Navy in England. When Holland was liberated we came to live here. One sunny day, I always remember it as that, two missionaries came to the door, and that day changed my life. I was baptized into the Church nine months ago, and by its teachings have learned to be more tolerant, kinder, and very much happier. One of the missionaries presented me with a year's set of Magazines from the Relief Society, and I can truly say I have and am still reading them with great pleasure. I am a member of the Dordrecht Relief Society. —Beatrice von der Werf Dordrecht, Holland A Gift of a Good Book pays a gracious com pl iment— add any of these to the library of a friend: ARTICLES OF FAITH BY JAMES E. TALMAGE Mission edition ___ --- 22----e--------$1.25
Library edition _ 200..222.22$2.00
Leather, gilt edge India paper edition JESUS THE CHRIST - BY JAMES E. TALMAGE Library edition ___ 000--00.-.2-------92.79
Leather, gilt edge India paper edition SHARING THE GOSPEL WITH OTHERS __o eee eee eee2.00 BY PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH ON THE WAY TO IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE.._ - 53.90 BY PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. MELVIN J. BALLARD His Sermons and Missionary Service BY B. S. HINCKLEY WAY TO PERFECTION BY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Deseret Book Company 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers PURE GRANULATED 48 UBS. NEY hai. X