CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES.

	THE Territorial conference of charities
was called by Mrs. Cornelia Paddock, sec-
retary for Utah of the National Conference
of Charities and Corrections, to meet in the
East Side Baptist church at 10 o’clock.
	At 10:30 a. m. Mrs. Paddock called the
meeting to order, and acted in the capacity
of presiding officer. Prayer was offered by
the Rev. Mr. Adams, after which Mr. Staf-
ford read a circular, stating the aims and
methods of the national organization. Mrs.
Paddock then said that some months ago
the president of the national conference
informed her that at the meeting next sum-
mer she was expected to review the history
of charitable work in Utah for the past
twenty years. She felt that she was un-
able to do so with the information then in
her possession, so had called this Territorial
Conference, and had invited those engaged
in charitable work to report what had been
done. The efforts of the national organiz-
ation were directed to the prevention of
crimes as well as to relieving the poor.
	Miss Emma McCornick presented a re-
port of the Young Ladies’ Aid society—
the report being made by the founder of the
society, Mrs. Miriam Godbe Brooks—as fol-
lows:
	The Young Ladies’ Aid Society, and out-
growth of the Ladies’ General Aid Society,
was organized Oct. 5th, 1886, with a mem-
bership of twelve young girls. As a non-

[Column 2]
sectarian institution its object was to aid all
cases of distress which came under its no-
tice, irrespective of age, creed or nationality.
It appoints each year a special visiting com-
mittee, whose duty it is to visit the homes
of these people and learn as nearly as pos-
sible their true condition, that they may be
helped accordingly.
	Since its organization the society has ex-
pended over nine thousand dollars. This
amount has been mainly spent for rents,
food and coal, but does not include a large
amount of clothing which has been made,
solicited and distributed among the poor.
It has given assistance to two hundred and
forty families. Some of these have received
aid every month since its organization;
others have been helped as occasion re-
quired. It has endeavored to secure em-
ployment for all who are able to work, and
has been the means of rendering many self-
supporting. Those assisted regularly each
month are either invalids or aged and in-
firm. Its income is derived from regular
monthly subscriptions and occasional enter-
tainments given by its members.
	The society’s membership has been in-
creased and limited to fifteen active mem-
bers, besides its associate members. The
officers for 1892 and 1893 are: Emma Mc-
Cornick, president; Fanny Hanauer, vice
president; Bertha Hemstead, secretary, and
Blanche Mackintosh, treasurer.
	Mr. L. Hyams then submitted the fol-
lowing report of the work of the Ladies’
Hebrew Benevolent society of this city, for
the past year, together with a brief history
of the work since its organization.
	The receipts during the year 1892 were
$749.10; disbursements, $757.12; the num-
ber of persons assisted being twenty-eight,
the majority of whom were transients.
	The Ladies’ Hebrew Benevolent society
was organized January 4th, 1888, with a
charter membership of twenty-one. Its
present membership is fifty-three. Al-
though the organization is sectarian in its
membership, it has always extended a help-
ing hand to all persons applying for aid.
Its income is derived from monthly dues
and the proceeds of social entertainments.
	The total receipts from all sources for the
past five years were $3,093.50; the expendi-
tures for same period, $2,416.50; leaving the
sum of $677 in the treasury. The total
number of persons that has been assisted
since the organization is ninety-six.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt reported the Deseret
Hospital had been unable because of pro-
fessional calls to complete a written sketch
of the institution, but this would be hand-
ed in. The lady stated that the hospital
was founded May 12, 1882, as an aid to the
Relief Society and other organizations
among the Latter-day Saints in caring for
the sick and those suffering from injuries.
During the past nine years, attention had
been given at the hospital to an average of
one hundred patients per year. The institu-
tion had met with good success in the treat-
ment of those placed in its care, the death
rate being low for the class of cases brought
in. The expense is between $500 and $600
per month, about one half of which is for
charity patients. The institution is well
furnished, and is supported partly by
contributions from the Relief Society and
Young Ladies’ associations among the Lat-
ter Day Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells reported the Relief
Society. She said the name of the organiz-
ation was now the National Woman’s

[Column 3]
Relief Society. It had existed from the
early days of the Mormon Church, though
during the emigration to Utah and settlement
here its work was carried on in a desultory
way. The people were then poor. As
settlements were established in the Terri-
tory branch societies were organized in
each ward. They had accomplished a
great work in providing for the poor nurs-
ing the sick, etc. At present the organiza-
tion is most complete, comprising in all
26,700 members. There is a general cen-
tral organization of seven members; then a
county or stake central board; and in each
ward a complete organization. These have
a corps of teachers, who visit the people
and report once a month. Thus the con-
dition and needs of every person in the
ward should be known. Most of the wo-
men of the Church are on its membership
roll. The organization owns real estate,
buildings etc. It also has a number of
granaries and a large quantity of wheat;
for its members have known the contingen-
cies which arise in this region to bring
scarcity of food, and have therefore pro-
vided for them. It is anticipated that the
society will ultimately be able to carry on
its work by means accumulated and &c;
though in the past it has called for some
from the public.
	Each branch society should contribute
$1 per month for the support of the Deseret
hospital. The society is educational as
well as benevolent, and has accomplished a
good work in qualifying its members for
the better performance of duties resting on
them. Mrs. Wells stated that her histori-
cal sketch of the society and its report for
1892 would be prepared and filed with Mrs.
Paddock.
	Father Scanlan, who was to have report
ed the Catholic charities, was not present,
and Prof. F. W. Metcalf, by request, read
an account of the circumstances which led
to the first establishment of a board of
supervision of state charities at Albany,
New York.
	Mrs. Jeannette Ferry, Mrs. McVicker,
and Mrs. S. Deamude each made a few
remarks on the charitable work being done
by women. Mrs. Deamude, who is re-
cently from Iowa, suggested that the insti-
tution of a Sunday school at the peniten-
tiary would be beneficial to the inmates.
The conference then took recess till the
afternoon.


