		SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of Quarterly Conference of
Sanpete R. S. held in Manti Dec. 10th,
1892.  Counselor Sarah Peterson presiding,
after opening exercises, of singing and
prayer, Sister Peterson addressed the
meeting.  Referred to the union existing
in regard to the World’s Fair Association
and also spoke of the picture which had
been decided upon as an exhibit from the
ladies of Sanpete.
	Sister Jacobs of Lehi referred to the
blessings she had received while laboring
in the Temple during the past week.  Spoke
in terms of praise of the President of the
Relief Society in Lehi and of her abiding
faith in the Gospel.  Also of the duties
and responsibilities of the Relief Society
in lightening the labors of the Bishops.
	Sister Peterson dwelt at some length up-
on the necessity of being liberal in giving,
and upon the duties of the sisters in visit-
ing the sick and comforting the afflicted,
the necessity of storing grain, and urged
the sisters to greater diligence in this mat-
ter.
	Sister Helena Madson of Gunnison
praised the energy and faithfulness of the
sisters of her Ward in Relief Society work
and also in the World’s Fair Association.
	Sister Wareham reported the sisters of
Manti North Ward as willing ones, ener-


getic in all their duties; esteemed it a privi-
lege that the women of Zion could be rep-
resented at the Columbian Exposition
through the World’s Fair Association, hoped
it would prove a grand success.
	Sister Dorius reported the sisters of
Ephraim, South Ward as being alive to their
duties.  Said the purposed World’s Fair
exhibit had met with universal approval.
	Sister Anderson reported the sisters of
Ephraim, North Ward, as being very dili-
gent in ministering to the wants of the poor
and afflicted.
	Sister Casto represented the South Ward
of Manti; the teachers were faithful and
diligent in performing their labors and the
poor were well provided for, bore testimony
to her abiding faith in the Gospel.
	Sister Minerva W. Snow was glad to
hear the report of their good works, and
was rejoiced to know that the poor were
provided for, felt that the sisters were blest
in their labors, because they were united
with the Priesthood.
	Prest. John B. Maiben bore testimony to
the good work accomplished by the sisters;
felt that all who were willing to respond to
the call would receive the blessing; thought
that the sisters of the Relief Society were
like Mary of old, and had chosen the bet-
ter part.
	Prest. Canute Peterson exhorted the sis-
ters to persevere in well doing that they
may receive the reward promised to the
faithful; was pleased with the reports from
the various Wards, thought they bore
strong testimony to the faithfulness and
diligence of the sisters.
	Sister Snow regretted the absence of
Sister Hyde, knew her to be a woman of
God; desired all to lift their hearts in pray-
er in her behalf.
	Conference adjourned until March, sing-
ing “Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.” Benediction by Bishop S. L.
Anderson.	L. A. Cox. Sec. Pro tem.


