KNOWLEDGE

	WE are told that knowledge is power. If
so, is it dangerous to have knowledge?
Most certainly if we have not wisdom to
control, this power, for it must be used in
wisdom to show its true value.
	St. Paul says, that knowledge puffeth
up, but charity edifieth.
	Here then is the danger of power with-
out wisdom to govern and control this
power: you will run too fast yes heedlessly, 
if you allow pride to lead you; because
pride will call your attention to see so many
things and also to see what impression you
are making upon others, that you grow
wild over your success before you have ac-
complished that which you undertake to do.
But wisdom will teach you to be careful and
be sure that you understand what to do and
how to do it, before being satisfied with the
undertaking.
	Here we can see the reason that a dull or
comparatively dull pupil will arrive at great-
er attainments than one whose intellect is
quick and bright, and all the time on the
alert, to catch some new idea of his sur-
roundings.
	He thinks oh, I can catch that idea at
any time when I give my attention to it,
but, now I am after something else,—In this
way he will accomplish very little because
he has too many irons in the fire, figuratively
speaking, and he is easily puffed up as St.
Paul once said, knowledge puffeth up, etc.
	I believe this is the reason so many
people are unsuccessful through life and al-
ways in want: because they have not wis-
dom to set a proper value upon time, or the
small amount of means that may give them
a start in life.

	But remember, if we use it by the in-
fluence of a wicked spirit it will prove a
curse instead of a blessing: as we some-
times see when a great fortune is left to a
spendthrift, how quickly he goes to ruin.
This is because wisdom is lacking. Well
did the wise king say, “With all thy get-
ting—get wisdom: for length of days is in


her right hand, and in her left riches and
honor.  Her ways are ways of pleasant-
ness and all her paths are peace." Proverbs
chapter 3. We need both. Your aged 
friend. M. E. K.


