IN MEMORIAM.

	RESOLUTIONS of Respect on the death of
Sister Jane P. Oldham, wife of Bishop Samuel
Oldham who departed this life Dec 18th 1892,
at Paradise, Cache Co, Utah.
	Whereas: Our Father in heaven has called from
our midst Sister Oldham, who was always
punctual in the performance of her duties in our
society, and had by meekness of spirit won the
respect and love of all who associated with her;
we feel to express our love for her in these few
lines.
	Resolved—that as a sister associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow sub-
missively to the will of him who doeth all things 
well, and say, "Thy will O Lord not ours be 
done."
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory and 
follow in the example she set us, that of being a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved husband, family and
relatives; that one copy of these resolutions be
presented to them, a copy be entered on the
minute book of our society, and they be printed
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	 Elizabeth Remington, Elizabeth Bickmore,
Isabella Obrey, Elizabeth Shaw.
		Com in behalf of Relief Society.
Desr Sister, in sadness we mourn for you here;
Mortality's weak and can bear not the loss
Of those whom we love, and the trembling tear,
	Will lighten the load of our burdensome cross.
We weep still we knew by the pow'r of our faithr
	Your mission was ended; you'd gain'd you
		reward,
Which was something like this where the good
		Father saith
"Enter into thy rest and the joys of the Lord."
We weep for we know that behind you remains,
	A tender young flock, that had need of thy care,
To guide them along over Life's weary plains,
By thy fond mother love, and thy e'er faithful
		pray'r
We weep for we know that thy husband's kind
	heart
	Was rent with the sorrow that came when you
		died,
And bitter indeed was the summons to part,
	From the wife who so faithful had walked by
		his side.
But yet do we know in that bright day to come,
You'll all meet again where no sorrow or pain,
Can mar the sweet joys of your Heavenly home,
	Or death from your midst take the loved ones
again.   F. W. JACKSON.


