		THE FLORENTINE REFORMER. 
	SAVONAROLA, a name known throughout
the civilized world, the great reformer and
Churchman, who looms up above the men
of his time in the renowned city of
Florence; was born in Ferrara, September
23rd. 1452, at the court of the Duke: and
was the grandson of an eminent physician,
which profession his parents intended for
him. Girolamo Savonarola was one of
a large but not a wealthy family, the one
however, it is said, on whom his kindred
had built their hopes. His contemporary
and disciple Burlamacchi says, "he was
such a diligent student, that he worked
day and night and attained great proficiency
in the liberal arts," then termed the polite
arts. Learned in the philosophy of the
schools, educated in the best institutions
of that day and age, he held a high place
in the estimation of the world of letters and
he had before him wealth, honor and
celebrity, but he was more seriously and
thoughtfully inclined, disregarding the views,
customs and opinions of those who were the
leaders of society, as it existed in Florence
at that period.
	Italy was at that time the prey of petty
tyrants and wicked priests; Dukes and
Popes vieing with each other which could
live most lewdly, most lavishly and most
cruelly; in fact like wolves among a help-
less flock. The subtleties of logic, the
discussions of Platonic society, and gram-
matical disquisitions were nothing to his
young soul, yearning for virtue and truth,
and with intense sympathy for suffering
and wrong.

[Column 2]
	As soon as he felt, “the stirrings of
manhood, within him a righteous sorrow
and burning indignation took possession of
him.” This profound appreciation of the
evils around him made the young Savonaro-
la sad, silent and even melancholy; he kept
himself retired and solitary wandering
much in lonely places, in open fields and
along the banks of rivers; sometimes sing-
ing, sometimes weeping, and in such ways
giving vent to the overpowering emotions
that burdened his spirit.
	His prophetic utterances were wonderful,
but the only mode of expression in which
he found relief then was rough and impas-
sioned verse. These early poems show
his depth of disgust at the state of society,
when learning and philosophy and the arts
of Italy and especially of Florence were at
their very height; "he looked upon the
world as turned upside down," as will be
seen by the following extract from one of
those ardent descriptive poems:— 

*   *   *   *   * in wild confusion tost,
The very depths and essence lost,
	Of all good ways and every virtue bright,
	Nor shines one living light,
Nor one who of his vices feels the shame;
	Happy henceforth. he who by rapine lives,
	He who on blood of others swells and thrives
Who widows robs and from his childrens needs,
	Takes tribute and the poor to ruin drives;
Those souls shall now be thought most rare and
		good,
	Who most by fraud and force can gain,
	Who heaven and Christ disdain,
Whose thoughts on others harm forever brood."

	While these things were boiling in his
heart, “the city raged or reeled behind him,
its streets running blood, or running wine;
according to the turn of fortune;” the
doctors of philosophy and men eminent for
learning babbling of questions of dead
grammatic lore, and no man thinking of
truth, mercy and judgment and the remedies
for evil and sin.
	In the midst of this state of things a lit-
tle episode of happiness came into the boy's
life which cast such a magic and glamour
over him that temporarily he was blinded
to the evils around him; the gates of an
earthly paradise opened to him and veiled
the horrors of the world. He had become
enamored of a young Florentine girl, the
daughter of an exiled Strozzi, one of the
proudest and most powerful houses in
Florence; this beautifnl dream was of short
duration and his biographers state, “that
it soon ended in sorrowful rejection on the
ground that his famiiy was not sufficiently
exalted to mate with that of Strozzi.”
	This was the culminating point to sepa-
rate him from the world, and he determined
then to enter a cloister. His reasons glven
in a very touching letter written to his
father were, “great misery of the world,
iniquities of men, so that things have come
to such a pass that no one can be found
acting righteously. I could not endure the
enormous wickedness of the blinded people
of Italy; and the more so because I saw
everywhere virtue despised and vice hon-
ored; a greater sorrow I could not have in
this world.”
	About this period Savonarola relieved
his mind by writing an essay, “Disdain of
the World,” he left it with some books be-
hind the window sill when he went away
partly in explanation of his singular con-
duct. His mother, according to biogra-
phers seemed to have been inspirational and
one sees in Savonarola as in Joseph Smith
the spiritual endowment of the mother's
nature.
	Savonarola was not only prophetic and


'poetical but gifted in music also, revealing.
'the finer elements and emotions, that ever
characterize, those sensitive souls who feel
much more than it is is possible to express
in the language of the world, and are never
quite understood, even by those with whom
they are intimately associated.
	On St. George’s day of the great festa at
Ferrara, the 24th. of April while all the
family were away sharing the gay festivities,
a day made sweet by the glorious spring of
Italy, he stole out unnoticed and left his
father’s house forever to enter a convent;
this was in 1475 when he was 23 years of
age, at that time he had no desire to be
either, a priest or a monk, he was melan-
choly and sick of the world. He crossed
the sunny plain to Bologna and presented
himself at the Dominican Convent; he
asked only to be a lay brother, to ease his
Soul with simple work in the garden, or to
make rude garments for the monks, which
seemed better to him than the vain questions
and doctrines of Aristotle; but soon after
taking refuge in the cloister he was made
lecturer of the convent, and found himself
in the same round of philosophy; but there
he was forced to obey. It is said, “he
obeyed with docility,” a sign of grace in
him not in keeping with his emotional tem-
perament.
	This plunge into the Church to escape
from the world was calculated to convince
the young man more readily of the cor-
ruption of the Church and in a way sharp-
er and more heartfelt than before. Pope
Sixtus IV. and many inferior prelates
caused him to see with critical eyes, and to
lament the sins of the Church. “He sees
the true Church in a vision, and sees her
place invaded by a shameless creature, sees
her bosom torn with a thousand wounds,
hears enough to make the stones weep of
the usurpation of the harlot.” For years
after he had to be silent and to teach the
novices, and lecture upon philosophy as if
there was no greater evil in the world than
a  defective syllogism, but his discontent
smouldered until the hour of conflagration
came. He made the best of a lot now
apparently unalterable and besides his
teaching wrote essays and poems of value,
among them a “Compendium of
Philosophy” an epitome of all the writings
of the Stagyrite. He began an elaborate
study of Plato which he after wards destroy-
ed. Seven years of this sort of life was the
interval of waiting before his real mission
came to him. After his obscure life in the
convent, he came forth strengthened, for
the burden that lay upon him. Toiling
across the rugged Appenines after his re-
lease from the bondage of the cloister, he
went to Florence with hopeful anticipations;
when the city was under the sway of
Lorenzo de Medici; and was pleased, yea,
delighted with that fair country the purer
language, the higher civilization of the
people, and when he saw Florence in its
beauty, in the rich garden valleys with
flowers, and olive trees, everything beauti-
ful in nature and noble in art, a sense of
coming greatness seems to have been per-
mitted him in face of the terrible fate he
was yet to meet.
	Lorenzo reigned in the midst of a lettered
crowd of classic parasites and flatterers,
“writing poems which his courtiers praised
and surrounding himself with those eloquent
slaves that make a prince’s name more
famous than arms or victories. A man of
superb health and physical power who

[Column 2]
can give himself up to debauch all night,
without interfering with his power of
working all day, and whose mind is so
versatile that he can sack a town one
morning and discourse upon the beauties
of Plato the next, and weave joyous ballads
through both occupations gives his flatterers
reason when they applaud him. Such a
man was Lorenzo de Medici, the leader of
Florence.”
	“The few honorable and righteous men
there kept apart overwhelmed by the tide
which ran in favor of that leading citizen of
the far-famed city of Florence. Society
had never been more dissolute, more sel-
fish, or more depraved. In  fact the age of
Lorenzo looked largely forward to the wor-
ship of Pagan gods.”
	Cardinal Bambo bade his friends “beware
of reading St. Paul's Epistles, lest their
barbarous style should corrupt his taste.”
This intellectual age was full of debauchery,
cruelty and corruption, violating oaths,
betraying trusts, believing in nothing but
Greek manuscripts, coins and statues, car-
ing for nothing but pleasure.
	This eventful period of intellectual
development and growth in all that is
beautiful in art and heroic in science proves
the falsity of the assertion so often made
that education alone will elevate mankind.
it is not so—there must ever be a balance
of spiritual power to hold in check the pas-
sions and to counteract the influence of ex-
cesses in luxuries and pleasures.
	This condition of the city of Florence
was the awakening of Savonarola, the
hour had come when he could no longer be
silent.
	“Florence lying in bonds, smears of
blood upon her garments, and loathsome
songs upon her lips, and the church groan-
ing under the domination of one evil Pope,
looking forward to a worse monster still—
for the reign of the Borgias, culmination
of all evil, all wickedness was approaching.
Savonarola felt the burden of oppression
that lay upon the common people, a sense
of terror and punishment, the vengeance of
God against a world full of iniquity that
darkened the very air around him.”
	Savonarola was sent out to preach like
others in the towns and villages at pene-
tential seasons, and even then he could not
help uttering the prophecies that filled his
soul. Wherever he was allowed to preach
in Brescia, in San Geminiano the flood
poured forth; “and in spite of himself he
thundered from the pulpit a thousand woes
against the wicked with intense and alarm-
ing effect. When he endeavored to speak
in lettered Florence, no one took any trouble
to listen to the Lombard monk, whose ac-
cent was harsh, and his periods not daintily
formed, and who went against all the
unities. But San Geminiano, among the
hills, when it heard that same voice amid
the glooms of Lent, thought nothing of
the Lombard accent, and trembled at the
prophetic woe denounced against sin; and
in Brescia "the hearers grew pale and paler
still, years after when the preacher’s words
were verified.” He preached Woe! Woe!
but restoration and blessing if men would
repent and turn from their sins. “Not
preacher enough to please the Florentines,
who loved fine periods it is evident, how-
ever, that Florence had seized upon his af-
fections with all the vehemence of a passion,
he loved her as so many have done, he re-
linquished his own city and clave to his
new dwelling place she was his choice, the

[Column 3]
very queen of cities, the centre of the world,
a kind of Jerusalem typical and exalted;
and he cast in his lot and adopted her fate
and fortunes as his own.
	The crisis occurred when on one of' his
preaching tours he attended the Dominican
chapter at Reggio, and was seen and heard
by a genial and gentle courtier Giovanni
Picodella Mirandola one of Lorenzo’s most
affectionate flatterers and friends. This
court butterfly was the most learned and
accomplished that ever fluttered near a
prince but tender hearted and amiable and
the kindly insight of an unspoiled heart
He saw Savonarola among the other
Dominicans, noticed his remarkable face,
heard him speak with such power and force
that the whole audience were moved.
	Probably something more, some personal
contact, some touch of the unseen that
went to the heart of the young Pico, a
noble young gentleman, amid all his frippery
of courtier and virtuoso. He was so cap-
tivated by Savonarola, that he gave Lorenzo
no peace till he authoritatively recalled the
fiery preacher from his wanderings and
brought him back to Florence permanently.
Young Pico felt he could not live without
this newly discovered preacher and Lorenzo
unwittingly at his friend’s request, ordered
back to Florence the only man who dared
stand face to face with himself and tell him
he had done wrong. Savonarola came
back unwillingly; but by this time he had
learned to leaven his philosophy with the
teaching of the Bible which he loved and
which he had learned by heart, and used as
a text book, launching forth into a wider
sea of discussion as his mind expanded.
His popularity increased under the influence
of young Pico and larger audiences gather-
ed; men of Florence came one after another
to hear a man who spoke with authority
and had something to tell them,” the
greatest of all attractions to the ever curi-
ous soul of man. 
To be continued.


