OBITUARIES.

	DIED in Grantsville January 19th. 1893, of
Brights disease of the kidneys.  Louisa wife of
Andrew V. Millward and daughter of John and
Jane Eastham.  She was born December 6th.
1844 in Derby, Derbyshire England, baptized
when eight years old.  Married April 18th, 1862.
Emigrated to America April 23rd. in the same
year on board the John Y. Boyd.  Crossed the
Plains in James S. Brown's company, arrived in
Grantsville the same year, and resided in this
city until her death.  She was the mother of
twelve children, ten survive her; she was a strict
observer of the Word of Wisdom. A member
of the Ward choir and a teacher in the Relief
Society for many years. She was a good wife
and mother and above all, a Latter-day Saint.
Rest in peace.
	ROSE HAMMOND,President.
	M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.


DIED at West Porterville, Morgan Co. Nov. 9th.
1892, Mabel M. Stoddard, beloved daughter of
Oscar O. and Elizabeth Stoddard, born Dec. 2nd.
1878.
	Resolutions of respect, adopted by the West
Porterville, Primary Associations to the memory
of Mabel M. Stoddard.
	Whereas, in the Providence of our Heavenly 
Father we have been called to mourn the loss of


our beloved sister and friend, who having led a
life worthy of invitation has been called home:
	We desire to pay a tribute of respect to her
memory.
	Resolved, that we her associates and co-work-
ers, of the Primary Association do fondly cherish
her memory and while we sadly miss her: we
feel to bow in humble submission to the divine
will of Heaven.
	Resolved, that we condole with her bereaved
family in the loss of their dear one; not, however
without the consoling reflection that she has gone
in her purity and is worthy to come forth in the
first resurrection.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered
in the Primary record: also a copy be presented
to the parents of the deceased, and one be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	Dearest Mabel, we have loved you,
	We have loved you fond and true,
	And it fills our heart with sadness,
		That we have to part with you.
	But a crown of royal brightness,
		Waits to deck your honored brow,
	And a robe of purest whiteness,
		Waits your body to endow.
	Dearest sister we shall miss you
		We shall miss your presence here,
	But we hope again to meet you—
Farewell Mabel, farewell dear.
EMILY E. BROUGH, Prest. Primary Ass'n.


