Recipes From the New England, Mission," by Margaret R. Jackson, page 518. "A" Is for Apron Parr I Ilene H. Kingsbury Hey, old woman, with the long white Apron! What are you holding in it, your hands all bundled up inside? Why do you walk along the shade of the poplars and pick your way so stoutly? Hey, what are you thinking of at all? UDGED from a memory, and N rudely, to say the least, this aged woman, Clarissa by name, slackened her pace, squared her shoulders, and, for an instant, felt the tug of a remembered burden in her apron. And she thought... How cold are your shoulders when it is twenty degrees below zero! How stiff are your knees with frozen fixity as you bend to push a cart! How numb is your thinking as the chill from the great river makes you and it solidify, if you stand still a minute! And that Mississippi did stop moving last night. It became a bridge of ice. Not just to hold a man and his dog, but to support a man's wagon and his oxen. It held itself in check around a half-circle of bend, its flowing and rushing, its ceaseless toil to the sea halted in the deadly grip of winter. Yesterday, the first Wednesday in February 1846, was the coldest Clarissa could remember, and today, the prairie held its own for frigid bleakness. Mostly because were not on the move, was it arctic. The camp was nine miles out from their city called "Beautiful" by those who loved her. Quite formally on the frontier maps, it Page 508 they " was printed Nauvoo. They named this spot a camp, not a settlement, expecting to go on as soon as their homeless, exiled band could be. Organized to head West. In that direction they would push to other successive noonings, washdays, and seed plantings for the late starters. There would be the tender laying away in the earth of those who no longer walked beside them. There would be repair stations and the one night's lodge resembling an outpost of civilization — next morning only camp ashes to show the short tarrying there. But this camp on Sugar Creek — sweet of name — bitter of memory! No habitation had ever graced its banks, no family had lovingly called its soil a farmstead. Only Indians marked its clod as a trail to better hunting. In midwinter no one challenged these hapless wanderers who delayed for a space at this