Oo immy Meets His Tlew Sister Jimmy Elsie McKinnon Strachan Two-thirds baby, one third boy: Ivy leagues and corduroy, Jam-sweet face and droopy toy, Come, touch your tiny sister gently, Study her pink toes intently, Kiss her cheek experimentally; And know, somehow, that though my arms Are cradling her small new charms, They, still, can quiet your alarms. Oh, little boy, when you would be My baby still, come wailingly— Or sleepy faced, and climb my knee. <> Silin g Photographs Elizabeth Wilhamson RE you wondering when you will ever get around to organizing and mounting your snapshots? A quick and easy way to get them in order is to put them in a letter file. Buy a large-sized one at any stationery store. Decide how you want to segregate pictures. A few suggestions are: Friends, Trips, Family, Children of Friends, Pets. You may want to leave them in this container forever, when you see how easy it is to locate a certain picture. Make an index in the front of the file. Frances White Prion #las Enriched Her of ife WVith Hobbies ee White Poulson, Hailey, Idaho, believes that a worthwhile hobby is a two-fold blessing. It enriches the one who plies the hobby and is a blessing to those who receive the gifts of lovely handwork. In the past three years she has made twenty-four quilts in unusual and original designs, beautifully stitched. She has made several crocheted bedspreads, afghans, doilies, pillowcases, and tablecloths. She is an expert with the knitting needles and loves to make sweaters and knitwear for babies and children. She has eight children, fourteen grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildren. Mrs. Poulson has been a Relief Society worker for fifty years, and has devoted hifteen years to service as a visiting teacher. She is grateful for her ability to find hobbies that bring contentment and joy to her and give pleasure to her family and her friends. Kitchen Glamour Camille C. Nuffer I love the sunlight Through my windows streaming, Awakening each precious thing, From night's sweet dreaming. I'm sure a kitchen, Is a place divine. A sunbeam from heaven Each morning visits mine. Page 521 The