[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 664 | Fiction | Woman's Sphere | Ramona Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona Cannon]

Symphony Number 3. Her interpretation, according to eminent critics of the dance, ''had an austere purity and grandeur." Marianne Moore, seventy-nine, noted American poet, in April, was awarded the Gold Medal for Distinguished Achievement by the Poetry Society of America. Many critics have pronounced Miss Moore ''the best woman poet presently writing in the English language." Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 8 (Conclusion) ¢ It was a simple thing that caused Nora to begin to take a serious interest in the Church. It was Bishop Shepherd's promise that she would learn to enjoy cold milk for breakfast, made that morning when she first arrived in Banner. She hadn't really given it much thought while she had lived with his family. She had simply respected their belief about bringing coffee into their home, but now she was reminded of the promise each time she milked her cow or each time she took a drink of the milk, sweet to her taste, from the bucket she placed in her spring. The day the bishop came to drive her to the little store in the village for groceries, brought her face to face with the situation. He stood beside Nora, ready to carry the articles she needed: sugar, flour, salt. She would not need eggs. She could get those from Ben. Then her eyes went to the coffee shelf, and paused. She felt the bishop watching. Now, in her own home, there was nothing to prevent her buying it, if she chose to do so. But, strangely enough, and the thought came with startling suddenness, she no longer wanted it. She thought of the milk from Old Brin, cool and. Sweet in her spring, and made a movement with her hand toward the shelf, rejecting it and its contents. The bishop saw the gesture and smiled, but he said nothing. His words came to Nora with vivid remembrance, "I promise you that if you'll try it, the time will come when you will prefer milk for breakfast." And Trudy—little Trudy. She remembered her words, too.