[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 663 | Fiction | Notes to the Field: Teaching Aid Packet for Social | Relations Lessons]
twenty per cent of Taiwan's textiles. Mrs. Yen also assists her husband Tyjingling Yen, in his many projects for the industrial and cultural development of Taiwan, including the manufacture and exporting of handcrafted goods native to Taiwan. Dr. Ethel Percy Andrus was founder and president of the American Association of Retired Persons, organized in 1958.

[Notes to the Field: Teaching Aid Packet for Social Relations Lessons]

The association sponsors a number of programs to aid '"'retirees'' to live fuller, more purposeful lives, by means of providing opportunities for social service, for employment, for hobbies, recreation, and cultural development. Dr. Andrus recently passed away. Ann Sexton, of the United States, has won the 1967 Pulitzer Prize for poetry, with the publication of her book ''Live or Die,'' a collection of poems varied in subject material and reflecting much of the perplexity of present-day events which impinge upon the individual and alter his life. Mrs. Lee Tapley is Women's Patrol Leader of the National (United States) Outdoor Leadership School presently located in the rugged and remote Wind River Mountains of Wyoming. Most of the area is accessible only to hikers and horseback riders, and the training includes mountain climbing, wilderness tracking, first aid, swimming, hunting, camp cooking, nature study, exploration, and skiing. 664 Ramona W. Cannon Miss Velma Linford, Star Valley, Wyoming, a former Utahn, is a special assistant to the associate director of Volunteers in Service to America. (VISTA). Among the projects sponsored by the organization are special fields of education and civic orientation for the mentally handicapped, the physically disabled, the isolated, and the lonely people. Among the workers are Dr. Jane Sterling, seventy, a specialist in tuberculosis who helps to rehabilitate the children of various areas of the Navajo Indian Reservation; and Dr. Catherine Nutterville, who has a Ph. D. In education and works with mentally retarded teen-agers in Washington, D. C. Cathy Leroy, twenty-two, formerly of Paris, France, is one of the most successful photographers for the Associated Press in Viet Nam. She spends more time at the front, about three weeks out of every month, than any other woman in the Saigon press corps. Suzanne Farrell, a young dancer associated with George Balanchine's New York City Ballet, recently performed brilliantly in a classical presentation entitled '"'Diamonds,"' set to the score of Tchaikovsky's