New Testament. Practically the whole of the Mediterranean area was covered by him, and many converts were added to the Church. However, gross darkness ultimately covered the earth and the voice of prophecy was heard no more over the centuries. But at the beginning of the nineteenth century, the heavens were again opened. By divine command, the Church of Jesus Christ was restored to earth through Joseph the Prophet. Soon thereafter, the same voice, which nearly two thousand years before had called the lowly Galilean fishermen from their nets to become fishers of men, was heard again, saying: Behold I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up.... Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony of me; For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness. And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work which shall be cut short in righteousness (Doc. And Gov. Sec. 84:87 et seq.). THE first great missionary movement in this dispensation was inaugurated in the fall of 1830 when the Church was only six months old. A company of four elders, headed by Oliver Cowdery and Parley P. Pratt, was appointed by the Lord to bear the gospel to the Indians at and surrounding Independence, Missouri, on the frontiers of Western America. Their labors met with but little success among the Lamanites, but a rich harvest of souls was garnered by these men at Hyrum in the vicinity of Kirtland, Ohio, resulting in a migration of the Church from Fayette, New York, to Kirtland, which now became its headquarters. A little later the gospel was taken to Canada by Parley P. Pratt, where he found awaiting him a noble band of God-fearing truth seekers under the leadership of John Taylor, later to become a president of the Church. From here the gospel was finally to cross the broad Atlantic to the British Isles. The missionary work of the elders in the British Isles, under the able leadership of Heber C. Kimball, was phenomenal. Thousands, in the course of a few months, became identified with the Church, many of whom migrated to Zion. The opening of the British Mission occurred in the fateful year of 1837, a year fraught with great peril for the Latter-day Saints. A financial crisis, nation wide, left its impress upon the membership of the Church. The "Kirtland Safety Society" sponsored by the Prophet and other leading brethren of the Church failed as a result, largely, of poor management. The cashier of the institution, a one-time faithful elder, was found guilty of immoral conduct and of misappropriating the funds of the society to the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars, thus placing the institution in a precarious condition. The Prophet gave warning of the impending disaster, but without avail. He therefore resigned his position as president, and withdrew from the concern with the remark, that "no institution of the kind, established upon just and righteous principles for a blessing not only to the Church, but to the whole nation, would be suffered to continue its operations in such an age of darkness, speculation and wickedness." MISSIONARY WORK OF THE CHURCH 517 Added to this financial disaster was the terrible treatment given our people in the State of Missouri by their enemies. They had been driven from their homes in Jackson County, and for a brief period had found respite in the northern and eastern counties. In the year 1837, the hydra-headed monster of vilification and persecution had begun to raise its head. As a result of the financial difficulties and bitter persecution, a dreadful wave of apostasy swept through the Church, carrying to their spiritual deaths, many of the leading officials of the Church, including several of the Twelve Apostles. The awful state of affairs led the Prophet to remark that it seemed *'as though all the powers of earth and hell were combining their influence in an especial manner to overthrow the Church at once, and make a final end." In this hour of deep sorrow and anguish, the Prophet appealed to the Almighty for wisdom and guidance, and in response came the voice of the Lord declaring that something new must be done for the salvation of the Church. Accordingly, on the 4th day of June, 1837, Elder Heber C. Kimball was called by the Prophet, while in the Kirtland Temple, "to preside over a mission to England, to be the first foreign mission of the Church of Christ in the last days" (D. H. C., Vol. II, page 489). In like manner, as the missionary labors of Paul and his associates saved the Church in ancient times from dissolution for a brief span, so did the preaching of the gospel in foreign lands by Heber C. Kimball and his companions save the Church in these latter days. The distinguishing difference between these two events was the fact that the Church of Christ in the meridian of time was not destined to survive the ultimate ravages of apostasy, while assurance has been given by the Almighty that the Restored Church shall stand forever amidst the wreck of nations and the crash of worlds. Not only has missionary work been the saving power, but also the enricher of the Church. I refer not to things of a material character, but to contributions on a spiritual and intellectual plane, as represented in language, literature, philosophy, and art. Every year over a period of several decades the Church has been represented by an average of two thousand young men and women, who have traveled as missionaries in most of the countries of the world. The return of these young people to the body of the Church has meant the infiltration of new ideas and new methods of doing things, thus rendering our culture the most cosmopolitan to be found in the world. Not only has enrichment come to the Church as a whole, but the development to be noticed in the missionary upon his return home is little short of phenomenal. He went into the world an inexperienced youth from the farm, the workshop, or the class room; he returns a well-rounded individual prepared through his experiences to meet almost any exigency that may arise in his journey of life. These young people have been called home to wear the colors of their country for the duration of the war, thus leaving the responsibility of preaching (at the Church upon the shoulders of a few of the older brethren and sisters and a very limited number of our young women, together with local brethren and sisters who are called to do part-time service.
But in spite of these restrictions, I am bold to declare that never before in the history of Mormondom has the leaven of Mormonism been more widely diffused than at the present time. The Church has nearly ten per cent of its membership in the service of the country. The vast majority of these young people, both by example and precept, are pleased to bear witness of the restored gospel to the great numbers whom they meet daily. Some of the strongest branches that we have in the Central States Mission are largely officered by servicemen and women, and the predominance in membership is composed largely of that class. Our branch at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma, is a splendid example of this. I think no finer, energetic
group of worshipers can be found anywhere in the Church than these army men and their wives. And what can be said of Ft. Sill can truthfully be said of many such branches throughout the world.
The spirit of these servicemen was beautifully expressed by a young man in an address before our Topeka conference recently. Following are his words as nearly as I can remember them:
My government has spent a great deal on me to make me a good soldier. It has supplied me with everything that modern ingenuity can devise for my comfort, with arms and ammunition, together with their proper use, as well as with other equipment, including the finest and most perfect protection that I shall carry with me when I go overseas to engage in combat for the Priesthood of the Son of God which I prize above all else. Upon it I shall rely, and I pray that I shall exercise it in righteousness before the Lord.
Some of our number have expressed themselves as feeling that we are in the process of gleaning human souls, but I am convinced that following this war, with the gospel seeds that are now being sown by our young men and women, we shall reap the greatest harvest in the whole history of the Church. God grant that this may be so. NEW TESTAMENT Dott J. Sartori Here, within this black morocco cover. Abide His word and sacred ministry, Among these printed symbols angels hover, And here is light to set the prisoned free.