110 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
PAROWAN STAKE. 
The Relief Society Conference of the
Parowan Stake of Zion was held in Cedar
City, Feb. 8, 1900, President Mary Ann
Lunt presiding. There were present of the
presiding authorities: Uriah T. Jones,
president of the Stake, and counselors,
Francis Webster and Bishop W. H. Corray
and counselors, and also some other breth-
ren.
Conference commenced by singing “Come
let us anew.” Opening prayer was offered
by Lehi W. Jones. Singing, “Let Zion in
her beauty rise.”
President Lunt was pleased to see so
many present, and hoped we would have a
good conference. Thought it best to hold
our conference every three months, and
prayed the Lord to bless us through this
conference.

[Column 2]
The reports were then given by the local
presidents or counselors; they were very
encouraging. The sisters held their meet-
ings regularly, had a good attendance and
were united. A good spirit prevailed
among them, and the sisters expressed a de-
sire to do their duty.
Bishop William A. Cory encouraged the
sisters in the good work they were per-
forming. Spoke at some length upon the
training of our children and urged the
parents to set a good example before them.
Bore his testimony to the work we are en-
gaged in.
Counselor Francis Webster knew the
Gospel to be the pearl of great price. Said
we learned very slowly, line upon line and
precept upon precept. Urged parents to
train their children in the Gospel. He was
proud to be a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Morning session closed by singing “Sa-
lem’s bright King, Jesus by name.” Bene-
diction by Peter Wimes.
Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock.
Singing, “God moves in a mysterious
way.” Prayer by Elder Richard Palmer.
Singing, “God spake the word and time
began.”
The statistical and financial reports were
then read and accepted and the General and
Stake officers were sustained. There was a
change in the Stake secretary. Sister
Clark has a large family of small children
and it was deemed wise to release her,
which was done and a vote of thanks given
her for past services.
Sister Caroline K. Jones was then sus-
tained as Stake secretary.
Counselor Annie Ward bore testimony
that the sisters were being awakened to the
spirit of knowledge. Encouraged the
sisters in their labors.
Counselor Annie E. Webster spoke upon
the storing of grain and urged the sisters
to be wide awake in looking after and in
instructing their children; for the kingdom
of God would eventually rest upon them.
Bore a strong testimony to the truth of this
work.
President Lunt felt to endorse all that had
been said, and encouraged all to live pure
and happy lives.
President Uriah T. Jones endorsed the
excellent remarks that had been made and
hoped all would be converted to the teach-
ings that had been put forth. Said we
should devote our time and energy for the
benefit of our children. Thought mothers
should have a good education, so they can
bring up their families intelligently and to
the best advantage. Prayed the Lord to
bless the Relief Society.
Conference adjourned by singing the
hymn “Awake, ye Saints of God awake.”
Benediction by Brother Joseph Hunter.
CAROLINE K. JONES, Sec.
BANNOCK STAKE.
Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Bannock Stake, held at Lund Ward,
November 18, 1899, at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Mary A. Call presiding. Sing-
ing, “O my Father.” Prayer by Bishop F.
H. Reddish. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Minutes of last
morning session of conference held at Trout
Creek Ward, were read and accepted.
The following wards were represented:
President Columbia Loveland, Chesterfield
Julia Pond, Thatcher; Letetia Banks,
Lund; Christina Higgenson, Hatch; Ellen


[Column 1]
Cramer, Lund branch. All the branches
were in a good thriving condition. No
grain has been received as yet on account
of frost.
President Mary A. Call felt weak in ad-
dressing the conference. We cannot have
visiting sisters with us from Salt Lake at
every conference, as the expense is too
great but through a full payment of the
ten cent fund we can have one visit once a
year, and thus receive instructions direct
from headquarters. Felt that the sisters
had responded nobly to the call for funds to
assist the nursing class, which had been
advised by the General Board for the
benefit of ours and the Pocatello Stakes, as
well as all the other Stakes of Zion. Felt
that, through having had such excellent
success, the Lord had been pleased with the
undertaking. Testified to the good results al-
ready received by her own family, and en-
couraged the sisters to be united in all
things calculated to advance temporally as
well as spiritually.
Counselor Sarah M. Call said she was
pleased to have had the privilege of attend-
ing the General Conference at Salt Lake
City, and felt that our Stake was in touch
with Relief Society work after comparing
our condition with reports from other
Stakes. Encouraged the sisters to pay
tithing and advised the necessity of holding
fast meetings occasionally in the different
branches, as it gave an increased flow of
the Spirit of God in our midst.
Counselor Rosa B. Knowles gave an ac-
count of her labors in the nursing class. She
took a great delight in her labors, though a
very great amount of difficulty had had to
be overcome to accomplish this work, on
account of having a large family of small
children and having been in poor health.
Though she had received knowledge, she
would yet be unable to accomplish the good
necessary without the united faith and
prayers of her sisters. Desired to go forth
as a nurse in obstetrics in faith and humil-
ity, and exercise her faith in behalf of the
other sisters who had taken the course at
Soda Springs, she having graduated at the
same time with Sister Christina Higginson
at Pocatello.
Sister Emma Toone, one of the Soda
Springs class graduates, said that she had
been greatly blessed in her efforts. Re-
joiced that she had responded to the call
made of her to take the course, for it de-
volves upon some one to do this work, and
she felt thankful to have been worthy of
such a mission and that she had been so
successful in her studies. Bore testimony
that Dr. Ellis R. Shipp had accomplished
a great work in giving us this knowledge
to do so much good among our mothers in
the Stake. Earnestly asked the assistance
of the faith and prayers of the Saints in the
Stake in her own and other nurses behalf.
Mentioned a movement that had been sug-
gested of forming a nursing class for the
purpose of meeting with the other sisters
who had graduated in the Stake and
instructing each other in their continued
study of this branch of knowledge.
President Mary A. Call felt that she
must express her thankfulness and satis-
faction in listening to the testimonies of the
nurses.
Bishop F. H. Reddish bore testimony to
the willingness and usefulness of the Relief
Society sisters in his ward. Realized that
the sisters work under greater difficulties
than the brethren to be able to accomplish
their work and must consequently practice

[Column 2]
great sacrifice, through which our greatest
blessings are received, accompanied by faith
and humility and a disposition to submit
ourselves to those in authority. No great
good is ever accomplished without oppo-
sition. We need still more nurses in our
midst.
Meeting adjourned until one o’clock p. m.
Singing, “Come let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Elder John Knowles.
Minutes of afternoon session of Bannock
Stake conference, November 18, 1899,
President Mary A. Call presiding. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by Julia Pond. Singing, “Earth
with her ten thousand flowers.” Minutes
of afternoon session of last conference were
read and accepted. Officers’ meeting, all
funds reported. Officers of the General
and Stake Board were presented and ac-
cepted.
President Mary A. Call explained the
object of membership fees. Advocated sub-
scriptions to the EXPONENT, in order to
keep posted on the affairs of women, and to
sustain it as the organ of the Relief Society.
Advised mothers to look after the welfare of
their children, especially at the time for
them to choose companions for life. Girls
from sixteen to twenty years of age need to
be preparing themselves for the responsibi-
lities of motherhood, rather than to be per-
forming that duty without a proper knowl-
edge.
Sister Dorthea Lau represented the Soda
Springs ward. Though a small society,
they have ample opportunity of doing
good.
Christina Higginson, a graduate of the
nurses class, heartily endorsed the labors of
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and felt that she was a
true Saint and an excellent teacher of her
profession, and she felt to recognize the
authority by which the doctor had been
sent to us.
Sisters Mary E. Parker, Julia Pond,
Brother P. P. Lexemberg and Sister Edleff-
sen each spoke of the necessity of giving
our children a proper training, of informing
ourselves by reading good books, that we
may teach them according to the mind and
will of God, for he will not hold us guilt-
less for neglect in this line. We as
parents must encourage the Primary Asso-
ciation workers, for their interest and ours
cannot be separated. Many mothers wear
out their bodies in their efforts to look after
their children’s physical welfere and grosely
neglect their moral and spiritual training.
Let us teach our children to pray, pay tith-
ing, love their meetings and honor the
priesthood, and great will be our joy and
satisfaction in raising up a righteous pos-
terity to the Lord.
A paper was read by the secretary en-
titled “The Origin and Destiny of Woman.”
After closing remarks by Counselor Sarah
M. Call, conference was then adjourned
for six months.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning. Benediction by Mary A. Tol-
man.


