THE NEW STAKE.
	President Frank Y. Taylor is to make a
visiting tour accompanied by all the officers
of the Granite Stake of Zion, visiting
every ward in the new Stake, leaving home
every Sunday morning in order to attend
the Sunday Schools, afternoon services and
call a conjoint meeting of the Y. M. and Y.
L. M. I. A. Association, for the purpose of
becoming better acquainted with the people
of the different wards.
	After the afternoon services a special call
is to be made for the officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society to meet and be-
come acquainted with the new Stake presi-
dent of the Relief Society and her officers.
	The first visit was made to the Sugar
Ward, February 11, 1900, Sunday morn-
ing at 10 a. m. After the opening exer-
cises the Stake officers of the Sunday
School and some of the General Board were
introduced. Remarks, instructive and in-
teresting were made to officers, teachers and
children. The children marched to their
different classes in excellent order, accom-
panied with very pleasing music. The
Stake officers were arranged in groups and
conducted to the different classes. We
were very much impressed with the exer-
cises of the kindergarten class, which was
managed with skill and interest.
	After the Sunday School was dismissed
we were ushered into another room of the
building and seated at tables beautifully
decorated with flowers and heavily spread
with a sumptuous dinner, which added to
the comfort and pleasure of all present.
The dinner was conducted by the ladies
in a very pleasing manner. Appropriate
toasts were given by President Taylor and
others.
	The afternoon services were indeed a


spiritual feast. Introductory speeches
were made by both brothers and sisters of
the Stake officers, interspersed with sweet
music by the choir.
	At the close of the meeting President
Taylor requested all the members of the
Relief Society to remain for a short meet-
ing, and introduced Sister Emma Wood-
ruff as president of the Granite Stake Relief
Society She made a few remarks, then
introduced her counselors and secretary,
each of whom expressed a desire to be a
stay and a help to their president, Sister
Woodruff.
	The Relief Society president of Sugar
Ward, Sister Sarah B. Gibson, expressed
her love for Sister Woodruff, and spoke of
her steadfastness in the Gospel from her
(Sister Gibson’s) earliest recollection.
	President Taylor spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters. He expressed a deep
interest for the prosperity of the work in
this the new Stake.
	Counselor Miller endorsed all the presi-
dent had said, and made a few closing re-
marks.
	Benediction by Counselor Julia A.
Rockwood, of Sugar Ward
	We very much appreciated the kind and
hospitable treatment tendered us by the
Bishopric and people of the Sugar Ward.
