left the bones in sight. The skulls were
very large, the teeth sound, they had died
in full manhood. The grave was far from
my dwelling, and the natives have great
superstition about going near a place of that
kind, which accounts for its remaining un-
covered.
	We also went to see a large cave in the
mountains. Projecting rocks hung over
the mouth, leaving a small entrance just
large enough for one person to enter. There
was a damp atmosphere inside, and total
darkness. We found candlenuts (strong
thorns on the end of cocoanut leaves) made
a light, by which we were enabled to sur-
vey the inside. It had the appearance of
being a hundred feet long, and the interior
was as high as a three story building, per-
pendicular on one side, extending like the
roof of a house. Some of our company
found bones of human beings in the caves.
I retreated awe-stricken.
	On our return to the village we stopped
to see a new schooner nearly completed.
It was under cover, built in old English
style, with round ends. We climbed to ex-
amine her cabins. It appeared to be well
done. For ornamental work they carve;
pillars and posts in their dwellings are
finished in that style, thus showing to the
observer that they have natural taste and
ingenuity which ought to be cultivated.
	The room we occupied while on shore
was at the end of a building seventy feet in
length. The remainder was occupied by a
crowd of the people who bought food daily
and ate with their visitors from Tabauai.
They set up high post bedsteads for us, of
their own make, curtained round with
their kind of cloth for musquito bar, made
of the bark of the paper mulberry tree,
thin, fine and white.
	The head chief, or king, is a handsome
man, quite fair, with regular features. He
was converted to the Mormon faith on

[Column 2]
another island. He had never seen “Para-
ta” till he called on us on his return from
the Chain Islands. His wife is a complete
opposite, coarse and uncomely. She was
kind and attentive, though unpleasant to
look upon.
	The last Sabbath on that Island was a
solemn one. Five persons were baptized
and the communion and sacrament of the
Lord’s Supper commemorated. The
Tubauai friends were sad at the instance of
leaving their missionary behind. His dis-
course was impressive. His address to
them aroused their sympathies. In affect-
ing terms he committed his family to their
care and protection. Fati, the king, ex-
pressed his great joy that the missionary
would remain with him.
	The following morning great ceremonies
were in operation. The kind people loaded
us with food for the ship’s company on the
voyage home. They followed us in crowds
to the beach, expecting to hear a “wail-
ing” when “Paraita” and his family parted.
We told them it was not our practice to
weep aloud. Sixteen of our number re-
mained behind on that Island. These,
with those who had been baptized, would
form quite a branch of the Church. The
Governor of Taubuai was opposed to
leaving the missionary. He said he would
be more appreciated in his own Island.
	We had a fair wind home and made the
voyage in less than twenty-four hours.
Found three schooners lying in the harbor.
Captain Johnson’s was one, and we had the
pleasure of again seeing our dear little
Mary. Though we were all happy to see
her, we could not help feeling sorrowful to
see her in charge of a mother incapable of
training her properly, and a stepfather
addicted to intemperance.
	As we hove in sight of our Island we saw
a crowd of people standing on the beach to
watch the approach of our vessel. Our
youngest daughter, Ann Louisa, whom we
had left at home with her Aunt Crosby,
stood with the rest to welcome us.
	Captain Grouard immediately put in
freight for Tahiti. The boy, Hiram E. W.
Clark, who came with us from Salt Lake
City, went with the captain on this voyage,
to learn a little of a sailor’s life.
	The natives made a great feast on our
return. We tried to be cheerful to console
them for leaving their teacher in Ravaivai.
The schooners all sailed and left us alone
with our native friends, who showed us
great kindness.
	The 10th day of November, 1851. This
is my birthday. Forty-nine years have I
lived. How few attain to that age in com-
parison to those who come short of it.
What a scene to look back upon! Had I
known in my youthful days what I had to
pass through, how faint and feeble my
heart would have been when the trials as-
sailed me. They were wisely hidden from
me. Often in my youth did a presenti-
ment of a fearful future come before me and
seem to warn me to beware of taking steps
to hasten on my destiny. But it was writ-
ten in the book of fate, and therein ’twas
written that I had much to suffer for the
Gospel’s sake. I have said with Job, “The
things which I dreaded came upon me.”
I have endeavored to bear them patiently,
and wherein I have failed I look to heaven
for pardon. I am not amenable to man,
neither will I suffer man to judge me. My
soul has seen travail, and dark waters have
murmured around me and floods of sorrow
have arisen mountains high and burst upon

[Column 3]
my head. Hunger, cold and nakedness
have stared me in the face. Pain of body
and agony of mind, false friends have beset
me and secret griefs have fastened their
venom on my heart and threatened to
loosen the chords of life. But this glorious
Gospel came and the light of truth dawned
upon my saddened heart and caused me to
sing for joy. Then alll my sorrows were
forgotten.
	Strong confidence in God has enabled me
to triumph in a great measure over every
calamity, and thus day by day I thank
Him that I have lived to see a glorious
work commenced on the earth, although it
has introduced me into a thorny path where
my feet have been goaded to blood. Christ
walked therein before me, and the Prophet
Joseph drank deep of the bitter cup in his
life, and died by the hands of wicked men
in a state that boasts of religious freedom.
Oh, Illinois, of you will it be required!
	In the midst of grief I have joys. Afflicted,
but not in despair. Knowledge of the 
truth is now an anchor to my soul. I look
for joy in the future to equalize all I have
suffered since the fulness of the everlasting
Gospel has made me a pilgrim and a
stranger, far away from my kindred and
country.
	This morning I went to Mr. Layton’s,
who has a Tahitian wife, and she knows
nothing about housekeeping. A young
girl lives with them who assists in the
cooking department. I was very anxious
to give her some instructions in the system
of cleaning house and keeping it in order.
I introduced the subject in a plausible man-
ner, so as not to give offense. The young
girl readily acquiesced, seeming to believe
it would be a nice affair to know how to
keep house like “mau tamahine papa,”
(foreign girls.) It was astonishing the
amount of rubbish we hoed out of one
room. Then a fire in the door yard complet-
ly revolutionized the premises. After this,
Frances, our second daughter, proposed
occupying the room, teaching two little
boys, and further instructing the girl in
rules pertaining to every day life.
	November 12th Mr. Layton had a
daughter born. There was great rejoicing
among the relatives, it being the first girl
in the family. According to their custom,
they would have it wrapped in a square
piece of cloth. I speedily made a suit,
dressed it in our fashion and gave the child
my name, Louisa. All seemed delighted,
and called it a “tamahine papa.”
	Ellen is an excellent interpreter, and I
am also advancing fast in a knowledge of
the language. I met with a few grown
persons for the purpose of reading the
scriptures. They had many questions to
ask in reference to some passages. I
attempted in my own way to explain, and
really was surprised myself at my success.
All present seemed highly gratified. My
subject was baptism for the dead, in which
they manifest a deep interest.
	Little do we know what we can do till
we make a thorough trial. Past the meri-
dian of life I learned a new language. 
(To be continued.)


MRS. FRANCES A. MORTON has been
appointed Superintendent of the Reforma-
tory Prison for Women at Sherborn, Mass.
Mrs. Morton has been in charge of the in-
stitution since the death of Mrs. Ellen C.
Johnson, and had previously served as
deputy superintendent.


