		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Tuesday, January 6, Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, of this city, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, of Farmington, started for Wash-
ing to to attend the convention of the
National American Woman's Suffrage
Association, and to be present at the birth-
day celebration of Miss Susan B. Anthony,
who will be eighty years old on February
15. Mrs. Richards represents the Utah

[Column 2]
State Council of Women as its president,
and Mrs. Clark as delegate. Mrs. Richards
has attended several conventions in Wash-
ington previously, but it is Mrs. Clark's first
visit to that city.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in immediately, in order that the Gener-
al Secretary may have sufficient time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her daughter,
Mrs. James E. Jennings, gave a Kensington
at the latter's beautiful home on South
Temple, on Tuesday, February 6. The
rooms were very tastefully decorated, and
the ladies, many of them old friends and
acquaintances, enjoyed to the utmost the
pleasant afternoon. Here, too, there was
sport in guessing. A small wax candle had
been lighted, and each lady was asked to
guess how long it would burn; and a cup
was filled with small candy balls and the
ladies were asked to guess how many it
contained. It was very amusing to hear
the guesses made, most of them very wide
of the mark. One lady, however, secured
the prize and walked away when the party
was over carrying the china cup containing
the candy. Dainty refreshments were
served by young ladies and the conversa-
tion at the prettily arranged tea tables was
most interesting "over the tea cups." The
party was a great success, happiness was
depicted on every countenance, and the
pleasure was spontaneous and uninter-
rupted.
	Thursday, February 1, Mrs. Priscilla P.
Jennings and Mrs. Harold Jennings enter-
tained at a Kensington at the former's
handsome residence on South Temple. The
two ladies received their guests in the spa-
cious hall. About sixty ladies were pres-
ent. An amusing feature of the afternoon
was the guessing contest. A card with
ribbon attached was handed to each lady on
entering the room, with twenty numbers.
These figures represented the twenty pic-
tures that were being handed around, and
the one who could tell the largest number
of either the name of the picture of the
artist was to receive a prize. Mrs. Martha
B. Jennings won the prize. The rooms
were prettily decorated and flowers were
disposed in quaint and elegant vases and
the effect was charming. Delicious refresh-
ments were served in most hospitable fash-
ion. Mrs. Jennings is a very genial hostess,
one who knows well how to bring the right
people together. This is her first entertain-
[-]ent since her return from Europe, where
she visited, meantime journeying here and
there for two years. A good part of the
time was spent in Paris.


THE Woman Suffrage Association may
now discuss the question, “Are the men of
Kentucky too emotional to take part in
politics?”


