WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Let us then close the century with a con-
vention which shall be a jubilee for our
successes and preparation for the twentieth
century, which is to be not man’s nor wom-
an’s, but humanity’s.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
President.
	ANNA H. SHAW.
Vice-President.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
Corresponding Secretary.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
Recording Secretary.
	HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
Treasurer.
	LAURA CLAY,
Auditor.
	CATHERINE WAUGH MCCULLOUGH,
Auditor.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT,
Chairman Organ. Com.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting was held
November 25, 1899, at the usual hour and
place, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “O awake,
my slumbering minstrel.” Prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice.” Minutes of the
previous meeting read and approved.
	Sister Stevenson said Sister Zina D. H.
Young and herself had visited Cache Valley
last week. They had excellent meetings
in numbers, and also a great flow of the
spirit.
	President M. I. Horne hoped all had
come today to receive a blessing and had
left their cares at home. Felt we were pros-
pering temporally and spiritually. God
has chosen us out of the world, and we
should all examine ourselves and see if we
are living the life of a Saint. The Lord
has given to his children in the world great
knowledge, but they have not had given to
them the privilege of the Gospel. Spoke of
the wonderful inventions and discoveries
since the organization of the Church, and
we have the benefit of them. The Saints
could not be brought to this land so safely
without the modern improvements. Our
enemies can take everything of a temporal
nature from us, but they cannot take the
testimony of the Gospel. God is no re-
spector of persons. He has bestowed upon
those in the world much useful knowledge,
but to us He has given higher duties, Tem-
ple work, etc.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke of the faithful-
ness of President Horne and thought we
should hold up her hands as those of Moses
were held up. Said: “She has been guided
by inspiration, her works speak for her. As
you labor God will reward you.”
	Sister Jane James and Sister Butterworth
each made good remarks.
	Sister Lula Greene Richards spoke of the
old Retrenchment Association and the neces-
sity of reviving these things again. Spoke
of the covenant she had entered into with
many other sisters, in the Tabernacle, by
request of President Young, that she would
wear plain hats. And she knew if we
would be more plainly dressed, retrench,
not follow the fashions of Babylon, we
would be more blessed.
	Sister Almeda Young thought we should
not follow all the fashions of the world and
wished to be one who would dress plainly,
for she knew it to be more pleasing to the
Lord.
	Sister Julia C. Howe believed the same

[Column 2]
spirit that rested upon President Snow in
regard to paying tithing, rests upon Sister
Horne in reviving retrenchment. Thought
we should retrench in eating and drinking,
dressing, etc.
	Sister Zina D. H Young said: “We are
blessed with the spirit of the living God
here today. Anything we ask for of the
Lord in righteousness will be given us.
Every face here is like a star.” Said we
had a right to inspiration to help us in our
work. Spoke of the good example Presi-
dent Young had set for the people and
these organizations, and how they had been
blessed in the work.
	Sister Martha Morris rejoiced that she
was present. Said let us be one, love one
another and be true to our Maker.
	Sister Maria W. Wilcox said she knew
this was the true Church. Knew we would
be rewarded if we would keep the com
mandments of God. Thought the spirit of
retrenchment should be brought among us.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley believed it was
necessary to teach our children economy
and retrenchment, for the punishments
promised would be fulfilled.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt we should re-
trench, had felt it for a great while. Said
our daughters should not follow the fash-
ions. Announced that two weeks from
that day a lecture would be given in the
Templeton, at 3 o’clock, the first of a series
on hygiene, anatomy, physiology, wife-
hood, motherhood, etc., given by Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts and others.
	President Horne said she always wore
straw hats made at home as long as she
could get them. She believed in wearing
home made clothing.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “Come let us anew.” Benediction by
Sister Clara C. Cannon.

	Minutes of the meeting held January 6,
1900, Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, and prayer
by Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “Come
let us anew.” Minutes of previous meeting
read by Sister A. T. Hyde, the secretary
being absent from home.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of beginning
the year aright, Said, “Do not speak evil
of one another, let us try to improve our-
selves in this respect.” Spoke of the faith-
fulness of Mrs. M. A. Hyde, who was
present and would speak to us. Spoke of
teaching our children the need of retrench-
ment, never run in debt and impress our
children never to. Spoke of the death of
F. D. Richards, the friend of woman. Said
to be exemplary mothers and missionaries,
for there is great need of missionary work
here as well as abroad.
	Sister Eliza Angel felt that we had had a
glorious meeting at our confe[-]ence. She
had been in the Church forty-five years.
	Sister Wright, Sister Sarah Phelps and
another sister (name unknown) spoke upon
interesting subjects, and a sister sang a
hymn.
	Sister M. A. Hyde never came here but
she felt the sweet spirit that was manifest
at these meetings. In the year 1843 she
went to an evening meeting and spoke in
tongues, although it was her first attempt
at speaking. She had the privilege of
hearing the Prophet Joseph when he said
that things would transpire in the last days
that would make our ears tingle. She felt
to put her trust in the Lord. Not many
have too much wealth, we are blessed if we
have sufficient for the day. Said it was the

[Column 3]
gift of her husband, Apostle Orson Hyde,
to understand the signs of the times, and
he often spoke of them. She felt as if she
were left alone, for so many had passed
away. Loved to commune with the Saints
and said, “Let us build each other up, for
there is no other joy than to serve the
Lord.”
	Sister Hardy hoped to be able to stand
faithful. Enjoyed the teachings that were
given on the anniversary of the birthday of
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	A sister in the meeting bore a very
strong and faithful testimony.
	Sister Horne felt that it was here that we
listened to each others’ testimonies, and it
was always a feast. Felt those who were
diligent in the different organizations were
heaven’s nobility. There were tests that
were trying to the aged and also the youth.
Encouraged parents to have their children
attend to their prayers. Said many neither
teach their children nor have family prayers.
Spoke of the union in the 22nd ward branch
and the great good they had accomplished.
Said we must reconcile ourselves to the de-
vision of the Stake.
	Sister Morris sang “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	Sister Webb spoke of the new year. Said
we should cultivate the spirit that comes
from the Lord, which is humility, long-
suffering charity and love. It is necessary
that we be chastened, but He will always
succor us if we put our trust in Him.
Hoped we would always be on the watch-
tower and exhorted all to go to the Temple.
Said how would we feel if the Temple were
closed?
	Another sister felt like acknowledging
the goodness of the Lord. Spoke of the
Temple work, and the beautiful influence
that she felt on her return home after work-
ing at the Temple.
	Sister Brown hoped we would attend to
our Temple work. She heard President
Snow say, that the one who did work for
the dead was a savior to that person, and it
would certainly be recorded to his or her
credit.
	A sister (name unknown) spoke of Tem-
ple work. Said if we worked for the dead
we would be blest.
	Sister Mary Morris said, “It seems just
as good to me to work for my neighbor as
for myself,” referring to Temple work.
	Sister Martha Morris bore her testimony
and Sister Stevenson made a few closing
remarks about the necessity of having the
annual meetings continued.
	The congregation joined in singing the
Doxology, and prayer was offered by Sister
Annie T. Hyde.
ANNIE T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


MISS ABBIE EASTMAN, of Phœnix
Ariz., inherited five copper claims three
years ago, and has been working ever since
in California and Arizona to earn the money
required to hold them until they could be
developed and sold. She has always been
obliged to earn her own bread, but with the
sight of a fortune before her she worked
harder than ever. She persevered, and
lately sold one claim for $45,000.
	MRS. ADMIRAL DEWEY startled Wash-
ington society by announcing that women
as well as men would be welcome at her
New Year’s reception. This is the revival of
a custom that was abolished in Cleveland’s
a dministration[-]


