BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

Tuesday, February 8, 1898, was Siste
Elizabeth Pixton’s birthday, and the good
people of Taylorsville assembled in the
meeting house to do honor to the veteran
pioneer and noble worker in the interests of
Zion.
About three hundred people were pres-
ent. The hall was beautifully decorated
and a variety of flowers, including calla
lilies, were on the stand and elsewhere.
The sisters had taken great pains to have
everything in order for the enjoyment of
the guest of honor and her relatives and
friends.
A program had been arranged suitable for
the day, Brother Archibald Frame conduct-
ing the exercises. On the stand were
Bishop Heber Bennion and Counselors Wm.
Panter and W. H. Haigh, Elder Samuel
Bateman and Bishop J. S. Rawlins, Sister
Pixton, President Zina D. H. Young, Sis-
ters E. B. Wells, Margaret Spencer and
Mary Rawlins.
The choir and congregation sang “Our
mountain home so dear.” Prayer was
offered by Elder Bateman. The hymn
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet,”
was sung, after which remarks were made
by Bishop Bennion in praise of Sister
Pixton’s life and good works. He gave
some reminiscences of the early settlement
of the place that were quite humorous.
Next was instrumental music bv Miss
Daisie Pixton. Brother Haigh read a sketch
of Sister Pixton’s life which we publish on
another page. Miss Farrell and Laura
Pixton sang ‘‘After the Din of the Battle is
over,” etc., and Sister Young, who had
known Sister Pixton fifty years, spoke for
a few minutes, calling up many old mem-
ories.
Her speech was followed with a song by
Althea and Katie Pixton. a short speech by
Sister Wells, then a recitation by little
Hazel Pixton, “If the Dishes Would Only
Wash Themselves.” Next, remarks by
Sister Spencer, and after she concluded her
remarks an intermission was taken and a
sumptuous dinner was served in the large
hall to all the assembly.
The tables were decorated with flowers
and all the bounties of the earth, seemingly,
were supplied for the delectation of the
guests. Mrs. Pixton was seated in the
centre of the first table, at her left Mrs.
Young, on the right Mrs. Wells and Bishop
Bennion at the head of that table. When
all were seated at the three tables, about
one hundred and fifty, the Bishop asked
the blessing. The conversation at table
was mostly of the early days in the valley,
and the prosperity that had attended our
efforts in these vales.
The guests dispersed after having feasted
upon the good things with which the
tables were so bounteously supplied, and
the younger portion of the party filled the
tables again, while the older ones conversed
and enjoyed the hour in the exchange of
greetings, etc.
The program opened again after inter-
mission. Bishop Rawlins was the first
speaker, referred to Brother Pixton and the
settlements over Jordan, the Bennions,
Harkers and MacKays. Recitation by
Charlotte Harker Watts, “The Diamond
Wedding,” then a quartette, “My Own
Beloved Where’er I Wander,” and encore,
“Scatter Seeds of Kindness,” and next a
speech by Sister M. A. Webster, who has
long been associated with Sister Pixton in

[Column 2]
Society labors and as a neighbor. After-
wards a song by Mrs. Margetts Mulhall
and a recitation by Phillip Margetts, the
veteran actor, and a song by George Mar-
getts and others.
All those who spoke testified to the high
esteem in which Sister Pixton was held by
the community, her generosity to the poor
and needy, her liberality with her friends
and her devotion to the Latter-day work
were favorably commented upon.
One of her little grandchildren sent a
few childish verses which we give below.
Sister Pixton has been energetic, indus-
trious and faithful in all her duties as
mother, wife and friend, and certainly
“her works follow her.”
E. B. W.

Dear Grandma:
I cannot be with you on your birthday, I am
sorry to say,
But take pleasure in wishing you many happy
returns of the day. 
I understand you will be eighty years old,
And still one of the best workers of the world
I am told.
Give parties to your relatives, year by year,
Oh, grandma, to everybody you are very
dear,
And we hope you will live many years longer,
And gradually, get a little stronger. 
I know you have not an enemy all over the
place,
As far back as any of us would be able to
trace.
Come to town each week and act as meek and
mild,
And get around as though you were but a
child,
Always helping those out who are in need,
And in doing good things you are in the lead,
And now I will stop with love and best wishes,
And the family join me in sending you some
birthday kisses.

