THE EXPERIENCES OF A FEW YEARS.

	When we meet with a face, the features
of which remind us of some one whom we
have seen or known, we think it is very
much like our experiences; for if the faces
that we think are similar were placed to-
gether, we would at once see that they
were not exactly alike. So it is with events
in our lives; while there is much sameness,
there are also some differences which make
the hearing of them or the reading of them
all the more interesting. Believing this to
be the case, I thought it might not be out
of place to write some things that have
happened during my life, and that not
many years ago.
	I like to hear how this one and that one
became a Mormon, so I will now relate how
I became a Mormon, or how I became a
full-fledged Mormon, as our missionary,
Elder Bennion, once said to me.
	To commence my story. When I ar-
rived at the age of twenty, I left my
native island (Guerensey) with my sister
and two brothers to cross the ocean in a
steamer called Bremen, going to America,
where I had a few relatives who lived in
Newark, New Jersey. After residing there
four years we heard of land in Kansas, so
we concluded to go West, to try our for-
tunes in the land of Uncle Sam. We
arrived in the west part of Kansas (which
is now called St. John) in time to put in an
early spring crop. We had been there but
a short time when our nearest neighbor,
who lived over a mile from us, came over
in great haste one day with some very im-

[Column 2]
portant news, and before going on with my
story, I want to say that I was entirely ig-
norant of the people claiming to be Latter-
day Saints, and I believe many are at the
present time, even though living but a few
miles from where our Elders have visited;
and I believe this opposition now stirring
will cause many to inquire of them and our
doctrine.
	Well, this neighbor came over to tell us 
that a colony of people called Mormons was
coming to settle among us, and he seemed
to regret it very much, because he believed 
them to be a very bad people, and thought
we ought to unite with our far away neigh-
bors and see what we could do to prevent
them colonizing. However, as he saw
this piece of news did not put fear into us, 
he did not stay long, not being satisfied
with the effect the information had pro-
duced.
	After he had gone my husband said to
me, “I wonder if they are any worse than
he is? If so, God pity us.”
	This man was very profane and seemed
to have no fear of God or a hereafter, and
had it not been for his good wife and three
dear little children I could hardly have rec
onciled myself to my lonely condition,
especially when the week was ended and
Sunday came. We had always been in the
habit of attending meeting and Sunday
School, I having taught in the Methodist 
Sunday School ever since I was sixteen
years of age. Therefore, we had, since our
arrival, had to content ourselves with read-
ing such books as we had brought with us.
	It was not more than a few weeks after
receiving this news, that my husband said
one evening, “I believe I’ll run down to
the new camp and have a look around."
So after clearing away supper, and putting
our little girl baby to bed—for at this time I
had been married two years—I waited
patiently to hear the report of our new
neighbors. I did not have to wait many
hours before he brought all the information
he could in so short an acquaintance. How-
ever, he had found them to be a very, re-
spectable looking company, clean and tidy,
working like clockwork, all apparently in
harmony. They had already, he said,
built a house all but  the plastering, and
had moved into it. This house was for 
their blacksmith, who was the only man
who had as yet brought his family, the
others had left their wives and children in
Pennsylvania, Ohio, and they were to come
later.
	Finding out that their teams were going
to town the next day, my husband asked
if he could go with them, as one of our 
team was lame, and the distance was con-
siderable, twenty-eight miles. This gave
him an opportuniiy to get acquainted with
of the leading men, with whom he conver-
sed considerbly going and coming, their
chief topic of conversation being on reli-
gion. He proved that they believed that
the one who had organized their Church
claimed to be a prophet, and had been
visited by an angel, so they said. This
surprised me very much and I wondered
why, if since they claimed to be Christians, 
the name Mormon was not found in the list
of orthodox religions.
	However, when the next Sunday came
my husband said he thought he would go
and hear them preach, as they were going 
to hold meeting in the new house and they 
had invited him to come and hear them.
To this I agreed on condition that if they 
preached from the Bible I would accompany


him on the next Sunday. We both contin-
ued to go and hear them preach because it
seemed more like home to go to meeting
again, although what we heard somewhat
disturbed our peace, and our first impres-
sion was that they were a little bigoted as
they passed the sacrament without allow-
ing us to partake of it.
Another thing that disturbed us was that
they proved from the Bible that infant
baptism was wrong, and that baptism by
immersion was right. This caused us to
look around and think that we must be in-
vestigating, consequently many a midnight
hour found us pondering over the scriptures,
but I regret to say, that for awhile our
motives were more for criticism than for
obtaining truth. However, one day some
of my grandfather’s words came to my
mind. When asked by a friend if he
thought one could go insane by reading
scripture, he said, “No, not if they read it
in a prayerful spirit. If they read it that
way it will give them consolation.”
After I had pondered over my father’s
words I knelt down and asked aid of my
Heavenly Father, that I might be led in
the right path, and that if the people were
right I might see it and follow the true
light, even if it was to the giving up of all
the teachings I had heretofore received.
Before going any further with my story
it might be well to explain what faction of
Saints these were. The leader was one
William Bickersten, who had been at one
time baptized in Pennsylvania, by Sydney
Rigdon, who was the leader of that Church
after the death of our beloved Prophet
Joseph. When Sydney Rigdon died, this
William Bickersten claimed to receive a
revelation to reorganize the Church in its
purity. Later on it seems he received
another revelation to gather to Kansas.
That is how they came to this dry, barren
place, where we experienced many losses
through draught. The Lord did not seem
to smile on this gathering, for many had to
at last mortgage and leave for other parts,
till at length fifteen years rolled by and
then there arose a dispute in the Church,
the members taking sides with another
leader, William Cadman.
Now, there were two sides, as we used
to call them, each claiming to be the true
Church, each having a head. The teach-
ers of each side visited us and warned us
not to support the other side, as each had
cut the other off from the Church. Well,
thought this was an awful state of things
and we concluded to remain with the
original head, and as he claimed revelation
had placed him there, we thought it but
reasonable that revelation ought to cast him
out, and this they had not claimed to receive.
(To be continued.)


