THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.

On Saturday, March 17, it will be fifty-
eight years since the Relief Society (which
has now attained such magnificent propor-
tions) was organized in the City of Nauvoo,
llinois. We speak of it as having been or-
ganized by President Joseph Smith, but
among the prime movers in this direction
we may look with a degree of honorable
pride to Sisters Sarah M. Kimball and Eliza
R. Snow. Sister Kimball and a maiden
lady residing with her, made some plans to
do benevolent work, and Sister Kimball
having a high regard for Sister Snow’s
judgment and ability, talked it over with
her, and it was agreed to speak to the
President of the Church of which they were
both zealous members. Accordingly Sister
Snow did so and he called together those
near at hand, brethren and sisters, and or-
ganized the Society.
He foresaw and foretold many things
concerning it which have since come to
pass, What that small beginning has been
to the women of Zion, from that day until
the present, in the development of activities
in many ways, and the awakening of
thought and defining of purpose, it is quite
impossible to tell in words. What it may
do in the great future, to which we look
with such earnest hopefulness, remains for
us who still live and labor, and the younger
women who will enlist in the work, to de-
termine by diligence and enterprise along
the lines of higher and nobler aspirations
and culture, than the world has yet attained.
That rapid progress is being made by
a large number of women in all civilized
lands, those who are not blinded by preju-
dice can plainly see. What has been
achieved in the last half century is sufficient
guarantee of what the next half century
must necessarily be ,in the ratio of even
modest calculation.
Therefore, it seems fitting indeed to cele-
brate the day when such a movement was
inaugurated, and to make it a day memor-
able in the minds of all who are within
reach. That the promoters of this move-
ment “builded better than they knew” is
easy for us to see who live today and have
had the great privilege of reaping where
they have sown. It is only proper that each
society, however small, commemorate the
day, making it such an occasion as seems
to them most suitable to their circumstances
in the respective locality. One suggestion

[Column 2]
might be made, however, that particular
respect be shown to the veteran workers in
the cause; and that mention be made in
some one of the addresses or speeches, of
the great advantages the Society has given
to its faithful members, and in promoting
and inculcating correct principles of life,
and of those virtues that ever shine
brightest in the human character.
The general instructions given at the
conference of the Relief Society, in October,
1898, will still apply to the keeping of the
day. It is essential that means be collected
in the various branches everywhere for
current expenses, and the small sum of ten
cents each was decided upon unanimously.
No institution great or small can be sus-
tained without money, and it is true that
hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash,
merchandise and produce has been donated
and disbursed during the time since the
Society was organized. Many industries
and enterprises have been fostered and en-
couraged for the sole purpose of aiding the
destitute, the needy, the sick and afflicted,
and to give labor to the unemployed.
Silk culture is one of the branches of in-
dustry the Society has aided in various
ways, and thousands of trees have been
planted and cocoons been raised and reeled
and woven, and in some instances spun,
etc., houses for meetings and the accomoda-
tion of the needy have been built, granar-
ies also in all of the Stakes of Zion. “Have
women built them ?” some people ask. We
answer “Yes, as Solomon built the Tem-
ple.” We need more of these, more halls
to meet in, more granaries for wheat, more
mulberry trees, more cocoons, more young
ladies to learn the art of reeling silk, and so
on, and then we need a house for general
purposes, where we can not only assemble
for meetings, receptions and lectures, but
where we can transact the business pertain-
ing to this great Society, and where we can
receive in a suitable manner persons of re-
nown who come from time to time to this
wonderful city. We believe the great, the
noble and the learned from various nations
will yet come here, many have already come
and we should prepare for the greater
things that the future is sure to bring. As
Dickens says, “How can we tell what com-
ing people are aboard the ships that may be
sailing to us now from the unknown seas.”
At all events, the Society wants a place
where records can be kept in safety, and
where our sisters who come from a distance
can get the information they require for the
furtherance of the work in their own local-
ity, where they can meet the general
officers and freely talk over and explain
matters of importance, or write letters when
sojourning here for a time. Club women
in many of the large cities have built such
places, and our Society is much larger and
of greater importance, for it is not only
national but international. There is no
reason why our light should be hid under a
bushel. “Let your light so shine that
others may see your good works.”


[Column 1]		
