FROM PATH TO PATH.
THE EXPERIENCE OF A FEW YEARS.
		(Conclusion.)

	Just at this time my husband went out to
Indian Territory, where he had been twice
before to preach to the Cherokees. This
time he was told to take his family with
him, and this necessitated selling our
home, as the missionaries have to pay all
their individual expenses, and we had
mortgaged our cattle to go on the other
missionary trips. We went, and our cat-
tle all died, except three head, with Texas
fever. But that was not all. The whole
family took down with the ague and my
father, who came from the old country to
visit us, died with a paralytic stroke, so
that in six months we had had more trouble
on account of sickness than we had seen in
the fifteen years of our sojourn in Kansas.
We had experienced cyclones and draught,
but not anything like we were now passing
through.
	Finally we returned to Kansas, all too
weak to be able to wait upon one another,
and as this mission was not for any particu-
lar length of time, my husband was released.
The first thing we had to do on our re-
turn was to look around and try to secure a
home again, though we had to board until
such time as we received strength to help
ourselves. Our means being nearly ex-
hausted we were anxious to help ourselves
again, but my husband’s condition was
very serious, ashemorrahage of the bowels set
in before the ague left him, therefore he
was six months just able to crawl around.
However we all recovered with the excep-
tion of my second girl, who was four years
of age. She died with inflammation of the
bowels, ague fever and congestive chills,
and, as I have already stated, we lost my


[Column 1]
dear father. Cloud after cloud seemed to
be crowded over us till we almost despaired
and felt that truly we must be forsaken of
the Lord, as want was beginning to stare us
in the face and our home was gone. But
we never failed to ask aid of Him who had
so often heard our prayers.
Before long a man came to us and offered
to trade eighty acres of land that was
mortgaged, with a house on it, for a
beautiful stallion that we had. We were
only too glad to make the trade so that we
might get a home of our own once more.
Just previous to moving into our new
home some Utah Elders arrived and com-
menced a series of meetings, and finding us
out, they came to see us. One evening
when one of them called my husband was
just going to preside over a cottage meeting
so he invited the Elder to go with him,
telling him that if his partner who was
to assist him had no objection he would
invite him to speak, to which proposal they
both agreed, the Utah Elder being given
paxt of the time. And thus the Lord was
leading us from path to path, until such
time as we could discern the narrow way.
That night before they parted the Elder
asked the question which was a very im-
portant one to me and that proved a turn-
ing point in our lives. The question was
this: “Do you believe that Joseph Smith
was a true prophet of God?”
We replied that we knew it, and that we
knew the Book of Mormon to be of divine
origin. The Doctrine and Covenants we
had never heard of.
He then asked if we believed that the
Gospel was brought by the angel and was
never to be taken from the earth again ?
We said certainly we did. Then where
was the Gospel from the time of Sydney
Rigdon's death till William Bickersten or-
ganized his Church ?
That question disturbed us more than
anything had yet done. My husband
walked the floor till nearly midnight, and
within a week concluded to be re-baptized.
When I saw that he was determined to be
baptized, I said to him: “The Josephites
claim to be the Church, and we claim to be
the Church, and the Utah Elders claim they
are the only true Church. Don’t be in a
hurry. If we have been deceived we might
be again deceived.” But later when I
heard the principle of baptism for the dead
fell in love with the doctrine, for I had
been puzzled about the dead many times.
About this time a dream that I had had
when in great sorrow, on account of the
split in the faction, came to my mind again,
as it had often done since I began to under-
stand it, though I kept quiet and thought
would do nothing in haste. Meanwhile,
was glad to see the Elders, and felt there
was some affinity with them, as we all be-
lieved that Joseph Smith was our prophet.
asked one of them one day why he called
me sister when he believed I was in need of
baptism, and would have to be rebaptized
before I could unite as a sister.
“Well,” he said, “I think you will be a
full-fledged Mormon one of these days.
You know you are only a half-fledged Mor-
mon at present.”
To go back to my dream, which I could
not forget. I dreamed that I was on board
a ship, and I was sitting studying a book
when a violent storm arose, tossing the
ship with violence. I thought my husband
was one of the officers and was walking the
deck in a very excited manner, when an
old gentleman, who had been lying asleep

[Column 2]
on a narrow bed laid near me, rose up and
said to me, in a sweet voice: “Sister, do not
study so much, but rest. This ship is
going to pieces, but you will be saved.”
My husband then repeated the same words,
word for word: “Do not study, but rest,”
etc.
Well, I did rest, and it was not until I
heard sermons on the principle of baptism
for the dead that I felt that there was yet
something great and grand to receive, and
that the Utah Elders had something more
than the Bickerstens or Josephites had ever
been known to offer. So from that time on
became more zealous than ever to hear
the missionaries, so much so that one day
my daughter, noticing this fact, called me
out of the room when I was conversing
with them, to tell me to beware or I would
be caught in the net.
And so it was, by gaining here a little
and there a little, precept upon precept,
that all last I became not only willing, but
anxious to be caught in the Gospel net, be-
ing baptized by Brother Edwin Udall, who
also baptized my daughter a few weeks
later.
After these Elders had been released my
two eldest boys were baptized by Brother
Taylor, whose home was at Harris-
ville. Both these missionaries have
since been laid away to rest from their
labors. The amount of fruits that will be
brought forth from their labors will not be
known in this life, but we know their works
do follow them. This is why we never
forget to pray for our missionaries. We
know they need patience, they need cour-
age, they need good health. They have to
pass through many trials, and those who
will not be humble enough to receive them
and accept the healing balm, that they may
be healed of the poisonous errors that they
have imbibed from their infancy, will con-
tinue to grow worse, and they will grow
worse, and they will rage and foam until
they become a wonder to themselves, not
knowing what ails them.
May you and I, dear readers, continue to
be led as little children; for unless one be
comes as a little child, he or she will not
enter the kingdom of heaven. If we are
faithful to the end, the trials and tribula-
tions we have passed through will appear
as mere trifles as we become worthy to hear
the words:
Well done, good and faithful servant, thou hast
been faithful over a few things enter thou into the
joy of thy Lord.
