	THE LAKES OF THE WASATCH.

   (Read at the U. W. P. C. January 31, 1900.)

    Whether in the delicate profusion of the
Spring’s flowery extravagance, or clothed in
the deep, rich green of Summer’s foliage,
in the gorgeous wealth of Autumnal colors,
or buried beneath the snowy silence of
Winter, the Wasatch mountains are beauti-
ful, sublime, inspiring; and high up ly-
ing in open dells between vast walls,
where the earth is intense with insect life
and flowery growth, are fairy lakes of mys-
tic depths, held fast in the rugged cradles
of these mountain ridges.
    Among the deep foliaged ravines the
shifting purple shadows fall upon the rifted
rocks, and in shafts of sunshine the lofty
pines glow with golden green, but in the
deepening shadows, dark, mysterious as
the closing shades of night. Here, bathed
in the breath of the warm, sweet earth
nature whispers her secrets and draws
from the heart its best and truest emotions.
From the sublime heights of Mt. Milli-
cent the lakes of the Wasatch present a
wondrous panarama, scattered here and
there like silver patches, studded with
bright jewels whose scintillating rays toss
and play as the sunbeams kiss their sur-
face, but when the mantle of twilight has
fallen upon mountain crest and valley, and
like a great ball of fire the moon rises, cast-
ing weird shadows over massive boulders,
silhouetting the pointed pines against the
shadowed azure of heaven, and moonbeams
dance and twinkle upon miniature waves,
’tis then nature betrays her subtle power,
her sublimest efforts.
   Silver Lake, nestling soft and tender be-
neath her overhanging crags, mingles the

[Column 2]
moist, fragrant grass upon her margin with
the flowery growth, luxuriant in the shad-
ows of the pungent pine. Upon her shim-
mering surface floats the raft of the patient
angler, and floating across the little valley
from mountain side to mountain side, are
the echoes of the smoking blast and falling
rock, the work of the ambitious and hope-
ful miner. From the border of the lake a
steep, threading pathway leads upward
along the dizzy, scraggy edge of Evergreen
Mountain, in and out by the tumbling
brook, up to its crystal source where two
peaceful lakes repose, separated only by a
grassy, fern-covered knoll, whereon still
stands a deserted log cabin, within whose
four rough walls one human heart lived
out its history of romance and tragedy.
    Greatly adding to the attraction of these
twin lakes and their surroundings, there
are many surprises—marshes and bits of
meadow, pebbly beach and rocky shore,
high reaching limbs of quaking asp and
cedar, of gentian and monks-hood.
    Seen from the narrow ridge above in the
near distance is Alta—poor, ill-fated Alta.
Hemmed in by precipitous mountains, ris-
ing in bleak majesty and clothed with
miners’ prospects, the little mining camp
bears the mark of toil and struggle, of fail-
ure and death. Crushed beneath the white
silence of relentless winter, rebuilt during
the hopeful days of summer, and after
struggle and struggle again,at last deserted.
    Hence to the left through gorge and
glade lies Lake Mary, queen waters of the
Wasatch. Rising from her central, subtle
depths is a rough hewn island of gray
granite, God’s own architecture. Here the
mountain winds sport with the spray, scat-
tering the cloud mist quivering with bril-
liant rainbow hues. The lake waters
crimsoned on one side with the sunset rays,
the other mantled in shadows cold and
green. Upon her borders the extremes of
nature meet, where the snowdrifts linger
through the dreamy summer the mottled
granite warms to life and bears the.sturdy
little buttercup and, too, drawn from
nature’s chociest chambers, are treasures
[-]are of bud and blossom, moss and fern.
Over the turreted little isle, almost sacred
in its isolation, clings a gauzy mist like a
bridal veil. Spalshing and gurgling
through the moss-lined crevices of the
broken massive rock above, filters a tiny,
musical stream, here a crystal cascade and,
there gathering strength in a ferny basin,
again to leap outward and onward, at
length reaching and mingling with the
sinking depths of the surrounding waters.
    With lingering footsteps one leaves this
little scene of enchantment to reach the
borders of unpretentious Phoebe Lake.
Placid and peaceful she lies, reflecting
within her mirror-like depths the downy
clouds of heaven’s archway, and the trees,
hill and mountain side in all their flower-
strewn beauty. Farther up and over the
highest Wasatch ridge are two compauions,
Martha and Katherine. Nearby the drifted
spots of snow remain from year to year, and
every whispering breeze breathes of quiet
and repose. There the wild cats cry and
the mountain call is tossed from hillside to
snowy crest, echoed and re-echoed again
and yet again.
    Lake Katherine, betraying neither source
or outlet, with her white, sandy beach, is
a miniature Pacific. The little black is-
land standing midway in her waters, like a
mimic Hawaii, with her extinct craters
and blackened lava. 

[Column 3]
    Scattered among the rocky terraces, and
nursed in the lap of peak and tower, surround-
de by the bluebell and graceful columbine are
lesser lakes, scarcely more than ponds, each
with possessions of its own. Among the
watery shadows of the little Dog Lake the
dogfish sport and play  Lake Solitude is
sombre, barren and lonely save for the
boom and crash along her crags, echo of
the blast from the home of the shining
metal. As seen from the summit of Mt.
Millicent, the sun slowly sinking, behind
the flaming mass, of scarlet clouds that
cluster along the borders of the horizon, the
picture is worthy the brush of a master-artist.
Could he but paint the reflection of the day
as it is caught upon the bosom of those
lakes, with the silvery sheen of their
burnished waters, it would make his fame
undying, his name immortal. The linger-
ing rays lightly and more lightly fondle the
miniature billows as if loth to take their
parting, but they vanish at length like
fairies of some magic past. When night is
at hand and the mantle of silence so great,
so solemn falls upon the scene, one can but
gaze with awe and enchantment and un-
consciously must lift the heart heavenward
as if to solve the mystery of nature’s won[-]
derful, flowery handiwork.
