SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15 & FEB. 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL TO UTAH WOMEN.
	We publish in this issue the Governor’s
Proclamation in regard to an election, and
we hope and trust the women of this State
who hold the franchise, and have equal
political rights of suffrage with the men of
Utah will avail themselves of the privi-
lege conferred upon them in the constitu-
tion of the State, and by their earnest en-
deavors to promote the highest good of the
State and its people, use their utmost in-
fluence in the interest of harmony, and
show to the country, of which they are an
important part, that they appreciate the bal-
lot and will make use of it for its legiti-
mate purposes. In the years since statehood
was conferred upon the people many wom-
en have taken an active part in political
issues, and have rendered good service in
both the great parties. A few have been
elected to office, and have made a good rec-
ord. Utah alone of all the states has had a
woman senator, one who sat through two
terms of the Legislature, having been so
fortunate as to get the long term. And
women have been elected to the Lower
House and have been efficient in the work
assigned to them and acquitted themselves
well on committees In several counties in
the State women have filled the offices of
auditor, treasurer, recorder, etc., and at the
present time women are filling the offices of
recorder, treasurer and minor places and
no complaints are made in reference to their
honesty or capabilities. 
	There are comparatively few women who
would care to accept public positions of
trust or emolument if tendered them, but
the few have proven woman’s ability to
discharge public duties with credit and suc-
cess The work so far has . not intruded
upon the home or its obligations. No com-
plaints have been made of neglect of hus-
band or children because of going to vote
or holding office.
	Women can be very helpful in the com-
ing campaign if they will use their woman-
ly influence for justice and righteousness,
not condescending to any of the petty bick-
erings and strife that occasion broils and
disturbances when electioneering is in full
progress. It is not vet decided what the
mode of campaign will be, but whatever may
be the ultimate decision, it will be the plain
duty of every patriotic citizen to consider it
his or her duty to do his best for the main-
tenance of order and a peaceful solution of
the question to be settled by the votes of

[Column 2]
the people of the State. Do not, women of
our fair State, indulge in any ill feeling
that would keep you from casting your vote
for the man of your choice to represent
Utah in the halls of Congress.
	The conditions that confront the people
at the present time throughout the country
and throughout the world, demand from
women their earnest attention and the best
thought and active participation in the
public welfare in whatever way seems wise
and prudent; and more especially does it
devolve upon women who hold the ballot
to exert their utmost influence at the polls
by casting the ballot for men who will
serve their constituents honorably and up-
rightly without fear or favor in the inter-
ests, of justice and equality of privileges, and
maintain the rights of the working man or
woman as well as those who abound in
wealth, that all may enjoy the freedom and
liberty guaranteed by the constitution of
our country.
	At this crisis in the affairs of the state it
seems that every man and woman, and
especially heads of families, should stand
for the principles embodied in the good old
Constitution and Declaration of Inde-
pendence, formulated by our forefathers
under divine inspiration, as we candidly
believe; and whatsoever others may do who
disregard the Constitution or trample it
under foot, the Latter-day Saints above all
people should maintain their integrity to it
and manifest to the world that intense love
of freedom of conscience and the true spirit
of liberty that was the crowning virtue of
our Pilgrim fathers, and which eventually
must be the touchstone of human liberty
for all patriotic citizens who love their
country and the dearest rights of their
countrymen. Love God and your fellow-
men, is a motto often used, but more often
abused Utah should stand for righteous
laws and justice, and above all the women
of Utah should do their part in the inter-
ests of all the grave questions that are on
the tapis at the present time, and prepare
themselves for greater and graver condi-
tions and situations in the future.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	AT the conference held to organize the
Jordan Stake of Zion, January 21, and also
when the Granite Stake was organized,
January 28, selections were made of a
presidency for the Relief Society of each
Stake. In Jordan Stake Sister Marinda
Bateman was sustained as president, with
Sister Hedvig Hildah Larson, of Sandy,
and Sister Agnes Cutler, as counselors.
In the Granite Stake Sister Emma Wood-
ruff was sustained as president, and Sisters
Mary P. Young and Katharine H.
Brockbank, Counselors. It is the intention
to complete these organizations within a few
days and get them into running order.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in as early as February 15, so that the
General Secretary may have sufficient time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether

[Column 2]
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met last
evening, January 31, 1900, at the residence
of the president, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller,
and, after the transaction of important busi-
ness, one feature of which was ’the appoint-
ment of a committeee to draft a Memorial
for Julia Ivins McDonald, one of the
charter members of the club, lately de-
ceased. Committee, Ruth M. Fox, Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Lucy A. Clark. Mrs.
McDonald is the only member of the club
that has passed away since its organization,
October 31, 1891. A part of the program
consisted of an original poem by Ruth M.
Fox, and “The Lakes of the Wasatch,” by
Mary A. J. Lambert, both excellent and
entertaining. We wish it distinctly under-
stood the Press Club only aims to do
original work and keep up with the times.
The remainder of the evening was spent in
delightful conversation and the hostess
regaled the members and visitors with
delicious refreshments, which added much
to the pleasure of the gathering.
	JANUARY 31 was the birthday of two of
the most eminent women of Zion, and both
were born in Jefferson County, State of
New York, President Zina D. H. Young,
of the Relief Society throughout the world,
and her first vice president, Jane S.
Richards, of Ogden, whose recent bereave-
ment in the death of her life companion,
President Franklin D. Richards, would
make the day a sorrowful one for her in
stead of a day of rejoicing. A dinner party
was given at the home of Mrs. W. J. Beatie,
Mrs. Young’s daughter. A few of Mrs.
Young’s most intimate friends were present
in honor of the occasion, fourteen sat down
at table. Aunt Zina, (Mrs. Young) as we
all love to call her, pronounced a blessing
that touched every heart with its sweet
tenderness. Mrs. Beatie is a magnificent
hostess, and knows exactly how to manage
a dinner on any great occasion. Her tact
and skill in this respect would satisfy the
most fastidious Beautiful flowers, elegant
china, snowy linen and all that gives zest
and tone to such affairs, with brilliant con-
versation, made the visit to the honored
lady a perfect success.
	MRS. LAURA G. FIXEN, of Chicago,
visited our city enroute from California,
arriving here Saturday morning, January
6. Sunday morning Mrs. Fixen attended
the German meeting and in the afternoon
the meeting in the Eighteenth Ward and
in the evening the Y. L. and Y. M. confer-
ence in the Tabernacle. The lady was
particularly impressed with the sermon of
President Joseph F. Smith, upon purity of
life and character. She stated that she had
never heard the subject set forth so clearly
and pointedly before, and felt that were
such sermons preached from the pulpits of
the churches in the Eastern cities, society,
and the condition of the people would be
materially changed for the better. A purer
atmosphere would pervade real life and
great good would be the result, in the
increase of virtue and morality. Mrs.
Fixen’s work is decidedly philanthropic.
She is business manager of a Working
Woman’s Home, in Chicago, and edits a
paper called Diamond Dust, in the interest
of the same institution. The Home will
accommodate eight or nine hundred women,


and has been a blessing to thousands. Con-
nected with the home there is a dispensary.
The same management has a summer resort
on the shore of Lake Michigan, about thirty
miles distant from Chicago. Mrs. Fixen is
a very interesting woman. She possesses a
great heart and has unbounded charity, is
a fine linguist and is certainly seeking after
truth. It was the privilege of the Utah
women to meet her in Washington last
winter, and having once seen us and heard
something of our religious faith, she could
not forget us, but wanted to know more
and see us at home in our own city. Mrs.
Fixen made an excellent impression in the
National Council, where she gave a synop-
sis of her benevolent work. She is certain-
ly a woman of marked individuality and
strong character.
	MISS MABELLE BIGGART, author and
dramatist, spent a week in our city during
January, but it was only the last few days
before she left that we had the opportunity
of meeting her. She gave her dramatiza-
tion of Adam Bede, in the Ladies’ Club
House under the auspices of the Ladies
Literary Society, and her rendition of the
strong character of Adam Bede and his
brother, Seth, was very wonderful for a
woman. The voice, with the power mani-
fest through the impersonation, surpassed
anything of the kind we had ever seen. She
made all the various scenes very vivid and
real, so much so that one’s sympathy was
intense. Miss Biggart has also her own
dramatization of Ben Hur, and after at-
tending divine service in the Tabernacle on
Sunday, January 21, expressed a wish to
have the opportunity of giving Ben Hur in
that grand place, with the great organ ac-
companiment. Miss Biggart gathered
material while here for an article on Utah,
to be brought out in the magazine, Success.
Her books are Solomon Garland, and, now
in course of publication, Ourselves and Our
Neighbors. For this last she is to make a
trip to Arizona and Mexico—making a
study of the people and the country, its
history, and other matters. Her character-
zation of different classes of people is very
original, both in manner and expression.
She has been a great traveler fur a young
woman, and has met many celebrities in
America and across the water. Miss Biggart
may visit Salt Lake again in April on her
return trip from Mexico.


