LETTER TO SILK RAISERS.
	Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, secretary of the
Utah Silk Commission, has issued a circu-
lar letter to prospective silk culturists, a
copy of which here follows:
	“The Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary quan-
tity of eggs.
	“We also desire to state that eggs can be
obtained from the commission free, and we
would prefer every one who is going to
raise the worms to have seed from us, as
we provide a quality which gives a much
better result than those raised by people
having no experience. We will also send
pamphlet of instructions free to those wish-
ing any information upon the subject.
	“We trust that many people throughout
the State have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful
lest any of those which have grown are in
danger of being destroyed. We also wish
to say to those who have trees, and do not
care to use them, that they may do a great
deal towards establishing this important
industry by allowing others to use the
leaves, and we assure you that it will only
benefit the trees even if they are stripped
several times, they will soon become much
more thrifty, and this will also be a means
of disposing of the fruit which is sometimes
an annoyance, especially when trees are
planted on the street.
	“As a whole, the commission feels very
much encouraged with the results of last
years work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year. All communications
should be addressed to Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

