		WEBER STAKE.

   Minutes of the Relief Society conferenc[e]
of Weber Stake, held in the Third Ward
meeting house, December 14, 1899, at
10 o’clock a. m.
   Meeting was called to order by Counselor
Harriet Brown. After singing, prayer was
offered by Elder Stone. Singing, “Guide
us, O Thou Great Jehovah.” Minutes of
October conference read and approved.
   Sister Brown was pleased to meet with so
many sisters in conference. She knew we
all felt sad over the great bereavement of
our president, and realized that President
Richards would be greatly missed by the
Relief Society of Weber Stake. Prayed
the Lord would bless Sister Richards, that
she might be comforted. Desired all the
sisters to be humble that they might be
blest.
   President C. H. Middleton felt very much
interested in the society and was always 
pleased to meet with the sisters. He spoke
of the great bereavement of Sister Richards,
also of the great loss the death of President
Richards had brought to the Church. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters, also Sister
Richards, that she might be comforted.
   Brother Woodward, president of the
San Francisco branch, spoke for a few
minutes on the good work of the Relief
Society.
   Testimonies were borne by Sisters C. E.
Driver, Mary Ann Ellis, Rosa Scowcroft, Rachel Burton and Frances Dance.
   Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City,
said she was very glad to meet with the
sisters. Spoke of her trip to England and
meeting with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety there. She deeply sympathized with
Sister Richards, and asked the Lord to
bless and comfort her. Prayed the Lord to
bless all the sisters.
   Singing, Doxology.   Benediction by


[Column 1]
President Middleton. Meeting adjourned
until two o’clock.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer by
President Middleton. Singing, “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.”
	President Middleton spoke again to the
sisters for a few minutes. Said he had been
very much interested in what had been
said here today, and he was thankful that
we lived in these days of prophets, for he
had been acquainted with all. He loved
all the societies of the Church and enjoyed
visiting the same.
	Sister E. B. Wells was pleased to speak
in another Stake of Zion on the subject ot
her trip to England. She spoke also of her
coming into the Church and listening to
the Prophet Joseph, said he was the most
wonderful man she ever saw. She testified
of his divine mission and the great work he
established. Felt that the sisters did not
realize the importance of this society. Said
there were now thirty thousand women in
six hundred branches of the Relief Society.
Thought the teachers were very, important
persons, and should always be able to re-
port. Said she felt that Weber county was
a banner Stake, being organized twenty-
two years last July. Asked the sisters to
remember Sister Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Richards and Sister Smith in their prayers.
Thought we should all make an effort to
keep our young people in the faith. Al-
luded to the Temples and the future Tem-
ple that will be built in Jackson County.
Spoke of the good the young women were
doing in the missionary work, speaking out
doors, distributing tracts, etc. She spoke
also of the convention at Washington last
winter, and the question of voting against
the Robert’s Resolution. She then gave a
very pleasant account of her visit to the
Queen; said thirteen out of fifty-three dele-
gates from the United States were from
Utah.
	Counselor Harriet Brown felt that we
had been blest, and she rejoiced in the good
things we had heard but still we mourn
the loss of President Richards.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us.” Benediction
by President Middleton. Conference ad-
journed for three months.
				C. E. DRIVER, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake was held in
the Assembly Hall, December 23, 1899.
	Present on the stand were President M. I.
Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde and
Clara C. Cannon, Presidents B. W. Smith
and Sarah J. Cannon, of the General Board,
Sister Julia C. Howe, one of the aids, also
Sisters Rachel R. Grant, Maria W. Wilcox
and E. J. Stevenson.
	As this was the anniversary of the birth
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the exercises
were, in a great measure, commemorative
of that event.
	The roll call showed seventeen city
wards and eleven country wards represen-
ted. The conference coming at the holiday
season, and the weather being unfavorable,
prevented many from attending, and the
conference was not so well attended as
could have been desired.
	Conference opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Sister Julia C. Howe. Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.”
	President Horne spoke of the necessity of
order and punctuality in attending to our

[Column 2]
duties. She was sorry to see no more
present on this occasion, when, in addition
to our regular conference, we had met to do
honor to our Prophet. Spoke of the pro-
posed division of our Stake and said this
would be, perhaps, the last time we would
meet as a whole Stake, and wished to hear
expressions from the sisters in regard to the
matter of division. 
	The followihg sisters spoke on the sub-
ject: Sister Jensen, of Sandy; Sister Mary
A. Dixon, of Mountain Dell; Sister L. S.
Stevenson, of Forest Dale; Sister Sarah J.
Cannon, of Cannon Ward. All expressed
themselves as prepared to be satisfied with
the change, though in some instances it
would cause inconvenience.
	Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Rachel
R. Grant spoke of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and bore strong
testimonies of the same. Gave personal
reminiscences of his life, and their knowl-
edge of him.
	President Horne wanted the opinion of
the sisters in regard to holding our meet-
ings every three months. President Young
established this order and she felt like con-
tinuing it, unless the presiding brethren
advised us to hold our conference every six
months.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Meet-
ing closed by singing the Doxology, and
benediction by Counselor Annie T. Hyde.
	Afternoon session opened with the sing-
ing of the hymn, “Hail to the prophet,”
by members of the Temple choir, under the
leadership of Elder C. J. Thomas.  Open-
ing prayer by Elder Samuel Richards.
Following, Brother Horace S. Ensign sang,
in a very effective manner, the beautiful
hymn, “The Seer.” Reading of the min-
utes of the afternoon session of the confer-
ence held September 2, 1899, accepted.
	President Horne felt that the sisters
should have made arrangements to attend
this commemoration of the birth of the
Prophet. They could make some sacrifices
for this special occasion. She had been
well acquainted with the Prophet, and had
entertained him at her home many times.
Related many incidents of an interesting
character in connection with these visits.
	Brother Samuel Richards spoke at some
length on the life and works of the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Told of some occasions on
which he spoke with such power and force
that every one could feel and know that he
was inspired by God. Brother Richards
spoke in a very interesting manner, and
claimed the closest attention from his
audience.
	Brother George D. Pyper sang, in a very
feeling manner, “The Holy City,” which
was much appreciated.
	Continuing, Brother Richards related
many personal experiences with the
Prophet, and said that he considered his
mission on earth second only to that of the
Savior, and, like the latter, he gave his life
at last for the truth’s sake.
	The Temple choir sang “Weep not, weep
not for me Zion.”
	President Angus M. Cannon offered an
apology for his late entrance. Another
meeting had detained him, and had he not
promised to attend, he would not have been
here, but would have been in bed, as he
was not feeling well. The impression made
by the Prophet on his youthful mind would
never be forgotten. He was truly a prophet
of the Lord, and Brigham Young followed,
fulfilling his part, as did also John Taylor
and Wilford Woodruff. “May the bless-

[Column 3]
ings of the Lord be with us all, with Sister
Horne, your president. This may be the
last time we will meet all together as one
Stake, for by the 1st of February there may
be two or three Stakes formed from what
was originally the Salt Lake Stake. And
thus Zion is growing, and the Lord’s will
be done.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards felt that she
would be doing an injustice to her feelings
and her conscience if she did not accept the
invitation given her by Sister Horne to
testify to the divine calling of Joseph Smith;
and she knew, as had been stated, that
none stood between him and God, except
the Savior. “I hope I shall never be afraid
to bear this testimony before all the world.”
	Conference adjourned until the first
Saturday in March. After singing, bene-
diction was offered by President Angus M.
Cannon.
		AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec. 
HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Hawaiian mission met in the
Laie meeting house, Saturday morning,
October 7, 1899, President Alice R. Wool-
ley presiding.
	The meeting commenced by singing,
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sister
Luukia Pono. Continued by singing, “O,
my Father.” Minutes of the previous
April conference were read and accepted.
	President Alice R. Woolley, the first
speaker, was pleased to meet again in our
Relief Society conference. She was glad
to labor in the work of God, and knew we
had received the true Gospel and the true
light, whereby we can work out for our-
selves eternal life. Spoke of the necessity
of attending the Relief Society and the
benefits gained thereby. Exhorted the
sisters to take care of the poor and needy
among them, for that is the true work of
the Relief Society. The study of the Gos-
pel should also be carried on in the meet-
ings, and we should live humble and
prayerful lives at all times. Asked God to
bless us all while we were assembled to-
gether, that we might have a time of re-
joicing.
	Sister Kai Kaimiawa reported Laie society
and gave a brief sketch of the work since
its organization.
	Sister Kamopama Wahilani reported
Awaiolimu society to be in a prosperous
condition. Said they study the Gospel,
take care of the poor and assist the needy,
and also take care of the dead. Spoke of
giving alms, and referred to the 6th chapter
of Mathew on the subject.
	Sister Laie Broad reported her mission-
ary labors in Maui in connection with Sister
Jennie Musser. Said the majority of the
branches are in a good, condition, most of
them anxious to carry on the work that is
resting upon them. She was thankful she
had been chosen to labor for God and His
cause.
	Sister Jennie P. Musser felt to sustain
the former speaker in what she had re-
ported. She had enjoyed a good time in
her labors and had wanted for nothing.
Was proud to have the privilege of preach-
ing the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and exhort-
ed all to be faithful and keep the com-
mandments of God.
	Duet, by Misses Hattie Kekuku and
Annie Apua.
	An essay on Relief Society work was.
then read by Sister Alice Smith.


Singing, “Hail to the brightness of
Zion’s glad morning.’’    Prayer by Sister
Kamahuilani.
	Afternoon session.  Meeting opened by
singing  “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.’’    Prayer by Sister Ruth
Kauhini.   Continued by singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.’’
	Sister Poopu reported Kahana society.
Sister Rebecca Oliver gave a favorable
report of Waikiki Relief Society, and was
glad that she was a helper in the great
work.  Prayed that the Lord would assist
us to be faithful.
	Sister Kahopewai, of Maui, reported the
Waihee society.
	Sister Miliama Kekuku treated the sub-
ject of “Care of Children,’’ and said:   “It
is necessary that we teach our sons and
daughters those things that will help them
to live good and industrious lives. Teach
them the Gospel and those things that will
elevate them, and they will in after life
honor and bless us. We will be held re-
sponsible for the conduct of our children,
and if we fail to teach them the principles
of the Gospel, the condemnation will rest
upon our shoulders.”
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams said she
was pleased to meet with the Saints in this
capacity, and desired to be directed by the
spirit of God that she might say something
that would be beneficial to all concerned.
Spoke of her labors on the Island of Kauai,
was pleased with the treatment they had
received, and knew that God had blessed-
them with His spirit while they were
laboring on that Island.   Was thankful to
have the privilege of preaching the Gospel.
Satan’s time is short, and he is diligent to
gain power over us.   But by diligence and
humility we can gain the assistance of the
spirit of the Lord to keep us in the line of
our duty; for “what value if we gain the
whole world and lose our own souls?”
Essay, “Salvation for the Dead,” by Sis-
tnr Kapili Luahiwa, of Waikiki.
	Sister Victoria Kakelaka spoke of her
labors on Kauai in connection with Sister
Elizabeth C. Williams.
	Sister Annie Kauluken gave a report of
her labors performed in North Hawaii and
Hilo Conference.   Spoke of how they had
gone among those not of our faith and
taught them the principles of the Gospel.
Referred to the blessings attached to the
observance of the Word of Wisdom.
	Sister Minerva Fernandez spoke upon
tithing and the counsel given by the ser-
vants of God on that subject in Zion, and
expressed her desire to fulfill the require-
ments of that law and gain the blessings
promised to all who obey this command-
ment.
	Sister Kealoha Reese, of Waikiki, sus-
tained the report given by Sister Kauluken
in regard to their labors on the Island of
Hawaii.    Said they had enjoyed their
labors and the spirit of the Lord had been
with them.
	Sister Ellen C. Cole said she was pleased
to meet in our conference again under such
favorable circumstances.   “We have heard
many precious things this day concerning
our work here on earth, so let us be faith-
ful and weary not in the good fight we
have begun.”   Spoke of the necessity of
parents teaching their children what is
right.
	Duet, by Sisters Margarett Fifield and
Jennie Musser.
Sister Margarett Fifield said, " I am
pleased to meet together again with you
this afternoon. It is the desire of every
soul to worship some Supreme being, but to
us is revealed the true Being.”    Urged all
to be faithful.
	President Alice R. Woolley said, “I am
pleased with what has been said during the
hours of this day, and my heart is filled
with gratitude to the Lord for His blessings
to us while we have been assembled to-
gether in our General Conference; and I
pray that He will assist us to remember the
things we have heard and aid us to put
them in practice, that we may prepare our-
selves for the great labor that will devolve
upon us while we sojourn here in mortality.
We should be liberal in donating, that we
may have more in the treasury to assist in
carrying on this great work we are engaged
n.
Singing,  “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Thomas Waddups.
                 Alice R. Woolley, Pres.
                 Elizabeth E. Williams, Sec.


