			MABELLE SNOW.


[Column 1]
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
(Read at a meeting of the D. A. R.)
	For the fulfillment of great purposes 
great men are born; and who questions the
idea that the immortal Washington and his 
brilliant and courageous colleagues were pre-
destined for their wonderful careers. Where 
in history can a similar fate to that of 
Washington be found? How he was pro-
tected through the long, fierce struggle of 
the Revolution, both from the enemy’s
fire and the dangers of the camp, though 
he shared all the privations and terrors
with his soldiers and stood always in the 
front of battle, often between the lines 
with fierce and dreadful firing on both sides
yet escaped unharmed, unscathed. His
coat of mail was neither steel, such as was 
worn by the warrior knights of old, nor 
stitched with threads of sorceries and super-
stition, like the knights of mythical legends, 
but an armor of a faith sublime; and a 
knowledge that his cause was just, made 
him invulnerable.

[Column 2]
	Washington stands in the vast firmament 
of American history the brightest star, but 
around his name cluster such a brilliant 
constellation of names as to illumine 
the path of our history for ages yet to 
come, and not the least brilliant of these 
is the subject of this sketch—Thomas Jeffer-
son.
	The only difficulty arising when writing 
a simple sketch of Jefferson is to know 
what not to tell, as for more than forty 
years, from youth to extreme old age, years 
when America was making most wonderful 
history, he was one of the most active and 
notable of Americans. 
	A certain fascination and romance is al-
ways associated with the military, and 
doubtless the most daring and brilliant 
heroes of the Revolution were the men who 
surrounded Washington on the battlefield, 
but in the making of a country the scholar 
and statesman is quite as necessary as the 
soldier, if not more so. It is the mind that 
guides the army, after all, and to quote an 
old familiar phrase, “The pen is mightier 
than the sword.”
	The one statesman above all others to 
whom this country is forever and ever in-
debted is Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson’s
father, Peter Jefferson, with a few other 
pioneers, doubtless anticipating the advice 
of Horace Greely, “to go west and grow up 
with the country,” had left the settlements 
along the James river and taken up home-
steads in a then unoccupied and almost un-
known land, along the Rivama river, just 
east of the Blue Ridge mountains, and here 
on this estate, named Shadwell, Thomas 
Jefferson was born, and here he lived as a 
child, boy and man, with but temporary 
interruptions, for 27 years. For a boy 
born in a wilderness he enjoyed remarkable 
advantages. His biographers tell us he had 
good English at five, Latin, Greek and 
French at nine, regular classical studies at 
fourteen, a college course at seventeen and at 
twenty-four he was admitted to the bar.
	His personal appearance at this time is 
described as six feet two inches in height, 
slim, erect as an arrow, with regular 
features, a very ruddy complexion, an ex-
tremely delicate skin, full, deep-set hazel
eyes and sandy hair. He was more a stud-
ent than an athlete, yet he possessed a pas-
sionate love of nature and took the greatest 
delight in horsemanship. Though an ardent
student, he was not necessarily a book-
worm, but, on the contrary, was fond of 
society. He was an expert musician, the
violin being his favorite instrument, was a 
good dancer and a daring rider.
	His devotion to home life and the build-
ing of his beautiful and famous home of 
Monticello reads like a romance. He had 
his first love affair during his college years.
It was, however, unsuccessful, but it stirred
“his sympathetic nature to its profoundest
depths.” However, he recovered from this
disappointment and later very happily mar-
ried a beautiful, accomplished and wealthy
widow, Mrs. Martha Skelton, whose wealth 
greatly aided him in carrying out his plans 
for the home and estate of Monticello, but 
she did not live to see them all fulfilled. 
	A few words about this beautiful, historic


[Column 1]
home would not be out of place here, for it 
occupied almost all the spare moments of 
thought from public life of its owner. Even 
to this day it is considered a work of art 
and wonderful ingenuity. It stands on a 
hill known as Little Mountain, overlooking 
the whole estate. Mr. Jefferson began the 
building of this home before the Revolu-
tion, but so many interruptions occurred 
that it scarce deserved the name of a home 
until after twelve years labor, in 1782 the 
Marquis de Chalellux paid Jefferson a visit 
and thus describes the house: “The house
Monticello,—of which Mr. Jefferson was 
the architect, and often one of the work-
men—is rather elegant and in the Italian 
taste, though not without fault.” Then
after describing the different rooms he 
further says: “We may safely aver that 
Mr. Jefferson is the first American who has 
consulted the fine arts to know how to shel-
ter himself from the weather.” But in 
course of time the house changed entirely 
and became from a plain Italian villa a
spreading country mansion of twenty 
rooms, with Greek porticoes and an octa-
gonal dome with very solid brick walls, 
strong frame work, good floors, a great pro-
fusion of elaborate trimming and full of his 
quaint and strongly original devices.
	The designing of this house was a labor
of love, and here, when free from public
duties, Jefferson lived, the cherished mem-
ber of a wide circle of friends, the head and 
center of a numerous family group, and 
here were entertained, with the grace and 
hospitality of a true Virginia gentleman,
the most noted people of our own land, and 
the most distinguished writers from foreign
lands. The conduct of this home life clear-
ly illustrates the fact that the artistic and 
poetic temperament dominated, not only
his youth, but his whole life.
	As Thomas Jefferson’s home-life was 
ideal and a beautiful example to young 
America, far more so was his public career, 
For over forty years he served his country 
as legislator, governor, congressman, minis-
ter plenepotentiary, cabinet officer, vice-
president and finally president.
	The most noted work of his life, and the 
one that has immortalized his name and 
cherished it in the hearts of the American
people, is, of course, the Declaration of In
dependence. It is a simple matter of his-
tory, probably, which every school child 
knows, and yet, surely sufficiently impor-
tant and interesting to bear repeating how 
the Declaration was prepared: Jefferson
was named a delegate to the General Con-
gress where he took his seat eight days after 
Colonel Washington had been appointed by 
Congress commander-in-chief of the colo-
nies, and he was placed upon the committee 
to draw up a statement of the causes which 
had impelled the colonies to take up arms 
against the mother country, upon another
committee to report upon Lord North’s con-
ciliatory proposition, when in the winter of 
1775-6 the news arrived from England that 
the king had denounced the colonists as 
rebels, and the law confiscating American 
vessels and cargoes, and the impressment 
of American crews into the British navy 
was authorized, the colonies became more 
united, and on the 11th of June, 1776, Con-
gress appointed Jefferson, Adams, Franklin, 
Sherman and Livingstone to prepare a
Declaration of Independence. Jefferson, at
the request of his associates, prepared a
draft of the Declaration, which, after two
or three verbal corrections by them, was

[Column 2]
taken up for consideration in the House on 
the 2nd of July.
	In the debates on the Declaration Jeffer-
son took no part, “thinking it a duty to 
be, on that occasion, a passive auditor of the 
opinions of others, more impartial judges
than he could be of its merits or demerits.”
Two or three expressions had been made 
which gave offense to some members, the 
words of “Scotch and other foreign auxili-
aries” were resented by some delegates of 
Scottish birth; and the strictures on the
king’s repeated veto of colonial law which 
permitted the slave trade, were disapproved 
by some of the southern delegates. 
	On the evening of the Fourth of July, 
1776, the Declaration was reported back 
from the committee of the whole House 
and agreed to. Thus was framed and 
passed the document which circumstances
have given an importance possessed by no 
other production of an American pen. It is 
regarded as the weapon that dismembered a 
great empire and that gave birth to the 
grandest of nations. For more than a cen-
tury on each anniversary of its adoption it 
has been read to assembled multitudes, and 
its style and sentiment are a model for 
every people which seeks for itself the 
right of self-government. Jefferson him-
self requested “that his tombstone should 
testify it to be the greatest achievement of 
his life.’’ Had others of these early leaders
possessed the sagacity and forethought of 
Jefferson it is more than probable that the 
sorrow and despair of the great civil war
would have been averted, for in the original 
draft of the Declaration there was a clause 
abolishing slavery. Then in the Virginia
legislature he introduced a law which was 
finally passed, prohibiting the further im-
portation of slaves into the state, and in 
Congress, 1783, he introduced a clause pro-
viding that after the year 1800 of the Chris-
tian era, there should be neither slavery 
nor involuntary servitude in any of the 
states, otherwise than the punishment of 
crimes whereof the party shall be duly con-
victed to have been personally guilty.”
And it is a fact that though he was fired 
with the Virginia passion for acquiring 
land he did not try to increase his slaves,
and never owned sufficient number to 
properly care for and till his large posses-
sions. Neither by purchase or investment
did he ever acquire slaves, possessing only 
those inherited from his father’s and wife’s
estates. On this question his own words 
are the best illustration of the depth of his 
feelings; he said: “I tremble for my country
when I think that God is just; that His 
justice cannot sleep forever; that considering 
numbers, nature and natural means only, a 
revolution of the wheel of fortune, an ex-
change of situations is among possible 
events, that it may become probable by 
supernatural interference. The Almighty
has no attribute that can take sides with us 
in such a contest.”
	As a statesman Jefferson was unequaled; 
as a politician he held extreme views and 
differed in many important questions with 
the leaders of his time. He was the most 
conspicuous representative of the Demo-
cratic party while Alexander Hamilton was 
the leader of the Federal, the two great 
schools of American politics. This differ-
ence of opinion certainly never carried any 
particular dissension, for both were mem-
bers of Washington’s cabinet, Jefferson 
secretary of state and Hamilton secretary 
of treasury. Washington very prudently 
sided with neither party, though it is

[Column 3]
popularly believed that his sympathies 
were more with the Federal than the 
Republican leader. He must have held his 
powerful opponent in high esteem for in 
the entrance hall of his beloved Monticello,
opposite his own statue, stood a bust of 
Alexander Hamilton. 
	As Congressman one of his most im-
portant acts was securing the adoption of 
the system of coinage still in vogue. As 
president, a position he held  for two terms, 
doubtless the one act most beneficial to the 
country was the purchase of the territory 
of Louisiana from France. He also suc-
ceeded in greatly reducing the public debt, 
fortifying the seaports, reorganizing and re-
arming the militia and extinguishing 
the Indian’s titles by fair purchase and pro-
moting their emigration beyond the Miss-
issippi.
	Though Mr. Jefferson was pressed to ac-
cept a nomination for a third term, even 
formally requested by the legislatures of 
five states, he promptly refused and re-
tired from public life in 1809, to his home 
of Monticello. But though not politically 
or publically engaged in service, he never-
theless always maintained an interest in all 
affairs tending to the welfare of his coun-
try, and one of his last acts was one of the 
most important—namely, the founding of 
the University of Virginia, of which he has 
been said to say, “I would rather be presi-
dent than president of the states.”
	The simplicity of his character is evi-
denced by the manner in which he rode to 
the hall of Congress on the day of his in-
auguration. Instead of a coach and six, as 
had been the custom, he rode horseback,
without a guard or even a servant in his 
train, hitched the horse’s bridal to a fence 
and walked in without ceremony to receive 
the tenures of the highest office in the land. 
The graciousness of his character can pos-
sibly be best illustrated by the remark he 
made when he took Franklin’s place as 
minister abroad: “I go to succeed Frank-
lin; no one could replace him.” The
tenderness by the simple act of keeping a 
vow made in boyhood to his friend, after-
wards brother-in-law, Abner Carr, by bury-
ing him under his favorite oak on the little 
mountain. This incident is said to have 
originated the little cemetery on the slope 
of Monticello, where the dust of Thomas 
Jefferson now lies in its last repose.
