WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Col
JOSEPA ITEMS. 
	The Josepa Relief Society has just been
bereft of one of its most prominent and in-
fluential members, Sister Makanoe Trous-
seau, who has only been in Utah one year
and a half, but by her energy and good
works she had become well established in
the colony and was ever a power for good.
	In the demise of Sister Makanoe the whole
colony have lost a mother and true friend.
She was ever found at the bedside of the
sick, and her association with Dr. Trous-
seau, of Honolulu, had given her much
useful information, and she was an efficient
and untiring helper in all the interests of
the community.
	The Relief Society desire to express their
appreciation of her good works, and would
exhort all to emulate her worthy example.
OBITUARY AND BIOGRAPHY.
	Sister Makanoe was the third child of Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Koluhilaau, and was born in the
notable town of Hilo, Hawaii, May 11, 1856. She
attended the Hilo day school from the age of six
years till 1863, then removed to Kona with her
parents and there finished her school education in
1868. She lost her mother, and three years later
married Mr. Kaaipa, by whom she had three chil-
dren, two girls and one boy. Miss Hannah
Kaaipa is the oldest child, and has had the advan-
tage of a good education in the English as well as
the Hawaiian language,
	Makanoe separated from her first husband, and
one year afterwards became the wife of Dr. Trous-
seou, of Honolulu. He was the doctor of the royal
family, and she associated very much with them.
In 1884 she accompanied Queen Kapialani and
the ex-queen, Liliuakalani, on their extended
visits around the group of islands. She was quite
at home in the best society, being a noble, digni-
fied and lofty-minded woman. She was a great
lover of her country and its beautiful scenery.
She visited, the volcano several times with her
husband. She gave her children the advantage of a
good education. She was ever noted among her
associates for her intelligence and wisdom.
	In 1890 Makanoe with her two daughters united
themselves with the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and, though she met with some
opposition from her friends, she never from that
time forth flinched or in any way neglected her
Church duties. She was the most influential
member of the Honolulu branch, and exercised a
presidency over the Relief Society of the different
Islands. She was chosen president of the Primary
Association in 1895, and still later she and her
daughter, Hannah, traveled for three months,
visiting the Relief Society and different women’s
organizations in our Church. On their return
they reported their labors at the semi-annual con-
ference at Laie (which she always attended) and
Makanoe and Kalwaianne were called on another
similar mission. Her daughter Hannah’s health
was impaired and she took her to the different
Islands to regain her health, and would fast and

[Column 2]
pray for her herself, as well as having her ad-
ministered to.
	Dr. Trousseau died and left Makanoe quite a
fortune. She helped all of her relatives and
donated liberally to the support of the mission. In
the spring of 1898, she, with her father, children
and other relatives, eleven in number, arrived in
Utah and settled in Josepa. That same year she
and her family entered into the Holy Temple and
did the work for themselves and many relatives;
and while in the city for that purpose she had the
pleasure of spending the day in the hotel with her
former friend and queen, Liliuahalani, and intro-
ducing the presidents of the Church and a few
of the sisters to the queen. Sister E. B. Wells,
Dr. E. R. Shipp, Emily G. Cluff and Miss Birdie
Jean Cluff were the only ladies admitted into the
queen’s apartments, aside from Makanoe and her
two daughters, Makanoe spent the whole time
trying to convince the queen of the great blessing
bestowed upon the Latter-day Saints, and obtained
permission from her to do the Temple work for
her relatives for many generations, in fact the
queen sent Makanoe a large book of genealogies
for that purpose, some of which she has done and
now the work falls on Hannah.
	In 1899 Makanoe accompanied President Joseph
F. Smith and party to the Sandwich Islands, at-
tended to her business and some ohurch duties,
and returned with them, only to redouble her
efforts in building up her chosen home. She has
attended all the General Conferences since she
came to Utah and spent weeks in the Tem-
ple.
	On November 30, 1899, she was taken very ill
with cerebral trouble, accompanied with a high
fever. She asked to be taken to Salt Lake City
that she might visit the Temple. Her relatives
and friends protested, as it was a hard journey in
cold weather, but she was determined to go and
they all finally consented, and her brother and
two daughters brought her in on December 7.
On the 8th she visited the House of the Lord and
received blessings that seemed to fully repay her
for her journey, and she seemed resigned and con-
tented and at 6 o’clock on the morning of the 9th,
she passed peacefully away surrounded by her
daughters, President H. H. Cluff and wife, and
Brother and Sister Worthington. All that kind
friends could do was done for her. President
Joseph F. Smith, ever her true friend, and many
of the Island missionaries mingled their sympathies
with the grief-stricken daughters.
	President Joseph E. Taylor, with his corps of
faithful sisters, arranged her in the pure linen and
laid her in a beautiful white casket, and laden
with love and beautiful flowers, she was carried to
her home, accompanied by President H. H. Cluff
and her daughters. Her brother, who had
brought her in, drove the remains home after
leaving the train.
	An impressive funeral was held at Josepa, Dec-
ember 12, at 2 p. m.; and though mourned and
much loved by all who knew her, we know she has
only gone before to receive the reward of the just.
Ellen Hallemanu, Sec.
Emily G. Cluff, Pres.


