		PARIS EXPOSITION.

	Paris, April 14.— The Paris Exposition
was opened at noon April 14. The most
favorable weather conditions prevailed and
innumerable bright colored domes glistened
in the sunshine. Paris was early astir with 
people wending their way towards the
Elysee and in the direction of the exposi-
tion.
	All the public buildings and numberless
private houses were decorated with trophies
of flags, chiefly the tricolor. The neighbor-
hood of the exposition was especially gay
with bunting, while most of the pavilions
themselves were surmounted with floating
banners.
	President Loubet, as he stood in the
presidential tribunal surrounded by the
cabinet and household, opened the exposi-
tion with the words: "I declare the expo-
sition of 1900 open.”
	Thus was the Paris Exposition, designed
to celebrate the world's entry into the new
century, inaugurated, and shouts of “ Vive
Loubet” and ‘‘Vive la Republique' ’ rose
from his 40,000 hearers, and silk hats were
waved in the air. The crowds outside the
hall took up the cheering and the exposition
was open.
	The spectable inside the Salle de Fetes
was brilliant with color and illumination.
The immense circus shaped hall is decor-
ated with magnificent frescoes, represent-
ing allegorical subjects by famous French
artists and its stained glass cupola bears
superb designs by Hermann and Goodwin.
It formed a beautiful setting for todays
ceremony.
	Contrary to expectations, the premier, M.
Waldeck-Rousseau, made no address at the
opening of the exposition, Mm. Millerand
and Loubet being the only speakers.
	President Loubet saluted the committees,
and entered the hall through, the throng of
more than 40,000 people that formed a sea
of human faces all turned toward the door.
As a salvo of artillery announced the presi-
dent’s arrival, there was a moment of ex-
pectant silence, then the heavy red plush
cushions covering the door were thrown
aside and the president in evening dress and
wearing the broad red insignia of the Legion
of Honor across his breast stepped into the
tribune which had been temporarily erected
for today’s ceremony, the presidential gal-
lery which is to serve for all later cere-
monies not yet being ready. At the same
instant an orchestra composed of musicians
of the famed Republican Guard struck up
the Marsellaise. The whole assembly un-
covered and remained bare-headed during
the remainder of the proceedings.
	Before the strains of France’s stirring
national hymn had died away a mighty cry
arose of “Vive Loubet, vive la Republique,
vive la F[-]ance!”
	President Loubet stood in the front of
the tribune with M. Waldeck-Rousseau,
M. Deschanet, president of the chamber of
deputies, and M. Delcasse, minister of
foreign affairs and all of the ministers ex-
cept the Marquis de Gallifet, minister of

[olumn 2]
war, who was absent because of indisposi-
tion.
	Grouped behind him were a number of
richly uniformed officials. The acclama-
tions were still echoing through the al-
coves and galleries when President Loubet
and the ministers resumed their seats and
M. Millerand began his speech formally
handing over the exposition to the chief of
state.
	M. Millerand’s address was received with
rounds of applause which attained a veri-
table roar at its conclusion.
	President Loubet then arose and delivered
an address which was also cheered.
	M. Waldeck-Rosseau was up to the last
moment expected to speak, but he changed
his mind, and when President Loubet con-
cluded he remained seated. The orchestra
then rendered Saint Saen's hymn to Victor
Hugo, and President Loubet descended
from the trifiune. 
	Americans will especially be proud of
their country’s display at this world’s fair,
for the United Stales stands second only to
France herself in number of exhibitors,
which treble those of any foreign country.
	The highest testimonial of Americanhood
comes from Commissioner General Picard
himself. In comparing the state of pro-
gress of the installation of various nations,
he said to Commissioner Peck, ‘‘It is an
object lesson to us all to see the American
people’s work. I thank you for your
promptitude and the advanced condition of
work in the United States section.”


