PRIMARY CONFERENCE. 
	Minutes of Primary Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, March 17, 1900, President Camilla
C. Cobb presiding. Opened by singing,
“We are the children of the Saints.” Pray-
er by Master David W. Cummings, of the
Nineteenth ward. Singing, “Did you
think to pray?” Roll call with twenty-
two associations represented, and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	The first exercise on the program was a
song of welcome, by members from the
Ninth Ward. Tillie Thomas, from the
Nineteenth Ward, read an essay On Pri-
mary work. The story of Samuel was re-
peated by Heber Mathews, from the Fifth
Ward. Motion song, by nine little girls


from the Eleventh Ward. Violin solo, by
Samuel Newton, from the Nineteenth
Ward. Questions and answers on the life
of Joseph Smith, by two little girls from
the Twenty-first Ward. Duet, by two
little girls from the Seventeenth Ward.
Mandolin solo, by Ettie Browning, from
the Third Ward.
	Counselor Joseph E. Taylor addressed
the conference. Expressed great pleasure
in listening to the exercises by the children.
Gave good counsel and advice, especially
to the boys in regard to swearing and being
destructive. Said children should honor
and obey their parents and teachers, their
love and counsel cannot be exceled. Asked
the children why we were brothers and
sisters? Said it was because we were
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ.
Spoke words of praise for teachers and
children. Prayed God to bless us.
	President Nellie C. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., complimented the children on
their good behavior and urged them to be
prayerful. Related an instance of a little
boy coasting, who came very nearly being
killed, and knew he was saved because he
had said his prayers that morning.
	A duet was rendered by Silva and
Frances Vowley, from the First Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt, of the General
Board, said she had listened with pleasure
to the sentiments that had been given; was
also pleased with the large attendance of
children. Urged them to remember what
Brother Taylor had said to them in regard
to obeying parents and teachers. Wanted
every little boy and girl to be a missionary
and bring some one with them to the next
conference.
	By request the children from the Eleventh
Ward gave another motion song.
	President Zina D. H. Young, of the
Relief Society, spoke a few words to the
children in regard to having faith to be
healed; made other remarks.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Benediction by Master Eli
Eliason, of the Thirteenth Ward.
