BY THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
UTAH—A PROCLAMATION.
	Whereas, A vacancy exists in the office
of Representative in Congress from the
State of Utah; and
	Whereas Section 784 of the Revised
Statutes of Utah provides that when a
vacancy occures in the office of Represen-
tative in Congress, the Governor must at
once issue a proclamation calling an elec-
tion to fill such vacancy;
	Now, therefore, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the State of Utah, in pursu-
ance of such requirement, do hereby issue
a proclamation calling an election to be held
on Monday, the 2nd day of April, A. D.
1900, in the several election districts of this
State, for the purpose of electing a repre-
sentative in the Fifty-sixth Congress of the
United States from the State of Utah, to
fill the vacancy now existing. At such
election the polls will be opened at 7
o’clock in the morning and continue open
until 7 o’clock in the evening of said day,
as provided by law.
	In testimony whereof, I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the great seal of
the State of Utah to be hereunto affixed at
Salt Lake City, this 27th day of January,
A. D. 1900.
	(Seal.)		HEBER M. WELLS.
	By the Governor.
	J. T. HAMMOND, Secretary of State.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO MEXICO.
	On the 17th of October I left Salt Lake 
City in company with my son-in-law, to 
visit my daughter in Mexico, whom I had 
not seen for fifteen years.
	We traveled over the Rio Grande West-
ern, passing through Grand Canon, and 
arrived in Pueblo, Colorado, about two 
o’clock; it is a great railroad center and 
has many iron factories in operation.
	The next morning we continued our 
journey, passing through the Raton tunnels. 
Arriving in New Mexico, we saw some 
villages that are creditable, but the Mexi-
can huts have flat roofs and no windows 
in them. We stopped at Alberquerque for 
supper, and left that night on the train.
	At Los Vegas there are some creditable 
buildings. We passed through a country 
well adapted for stock raising, and arrived 
at El Paso, a live city in the western ex-
tremity of Texas. Here are some very 
fine buildings, particularly the Court
House. The following morning we
crossed the Rio Grande river over a long
bridge (via the street car line) into Mexico.
	Here our valises were searched by
Mexican officials, after which we took the
train for Colonia, Dublan. The country
here is very open and level, with a few
mountains in the distance.
	About 5 o’clock p. m., on the 21st of
October, we arrived at Dublan, where there
was a joyful meeting with my daughter.
At Dublan there is an excellent site for a
large city, the only drawback being the
scarcity of water late in the season. This
difficulty will be overcome by reservoirs.
	The latter part of October I went to
Juarez, about eighteen miles distant, with
my daughter and some of the family.
Here I attended a meeting of the Primary
Association under the able management of
Sister Maggie Ivins Bentley, and also
visited the Sunday School, under the super-
ntendency of Miles A.Romney. We were

[Column 2]
kindly treated by the Saints and hospitably
entertained at the homes of Presidents A.
W. Ivins and Henry Eyring, Bishop
Joseph Bentley and others, and met with
many friends, among them Sister Elizabeth
Snow, who is spending the winter with her
daughter in this delightful climate. I had
the pleasure of attending a party in honor
of Elder James Sconson, a returned mis-
sionary, and had an enjoyable time.
	On Thursday I returned to Dublan with
Sister Mary P. Eyring, the president of the
Relief Society of Juarez Stake, and met with
the Relief Society of Dublan. Many ex-
cellent testimonies were borne of the Gos-
pel. There is a good people here.
	On December 2nd Sister Elizabeth
Claridge McCune met with the Young
Ladies’ Association, and a spiritual feast
was enjoyed.
	On December 21st I left Dublan on the
return trip to Salt Lake City. The weather
was cold and stormy, and after traveling
some distance we found the ground covered
with snow. On the train I overheard a
conversation between a sporting man from
New York City and a Western man. The
New Yorker was asking about game, and
was told that there was plenty of game in
the mountains, and that he could hire a
good hunter to accompany him for six
dollars a day, which he seemed perfectly
willing to pay. He was anxious to kill
mountain lion, ard such game. He said
he did not like pork, and thinking he could
not get any other kind of meat in Colorado
and New Mexico, he had shipped some
beef from the East for his own benefit.
When informed that he could get any kind
of meat he wanted, he seemed surprised,
and said the people would have the laugh
on him.
	The return trip was a pleasant one, the
trains making close connections and a
quick trip was made, arriving in Salt Lake
on Sunday morning, December 24. I was
accompanied on the journey home by Elder
William Clayson, who was on his way to
the Eastern States on a mission.
