		SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake, held March 3, 1900, in the
Assembly Hall, President M. Isabella
Horne presiding, commenced by singing
"Arise, O glorious Zion." Prayer by
Counselor Clara C. Cannon. Singing,
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
	The officers present on the stand were
President M. I. Horne, Counselors A. T.
Hyde and C. C. Cannon, President Zina D.
H. Young, President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Maria W. Wilcox, Julia C. Howe, Clar-
issa S. Williams, President Emma S.
Woodruff, President Sarah J. Cannon,
Emma A. Empey, Elizabeth J. Stevenson,
President Mary A. Hyde.
	Roll call, twenty-three wards represented
out of twenty-five. Minutes of the confer-
ence held December 23, read and approved.
	President Horne was the first speaker.
Said this was the first meeting held since
the division of the Stake, and she was
pleased to see so good a representation. It
is a grand and a great calling to be an officer
in the Relief Society, and the officers should
be alive to their duties, energetic and faith-
ful in every particular. We must not be
slothful servants, nor let anything interfere
with our spiritual advancement. We need
a revival of interest in our associations, and


[Column 1]
much depends upon the energy of the
officers. All should be humble and willing
to be dictated by the Holy Spirit. Do not
aspire to office, but be willing to fill the
humble places, for they are all important.
All the officers need our prayers.
	President Zina D. H. Young said: “It is
a great thing to be satisfied with the provi-
dences of the Lord, and do not always be
wanting, or when you come to the end of
your lives and are weighed in the balance,
you may still be found wanting. I pray
the Lord to bless all who are here, they are
His jewels, and I also pray for those who
are not here but who desire so much to be
here, if it were possible.”
	President Sarah J. Cannon said: “I feel
that there is a good spirit here, and am very
much pleased to be able to be here. I feel
the importance of what Sister Horne had
said—that we need an awakening in the
Relief Society. I have thought of this a
great deal, and wonder what can be done in
this regard. Be charitable and try to avoid
giving offence to any one.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was extremely
gratified to see the good representation con-
sidering the division of the Stake. Felt
that this division would be productive of
good. Spoke of the duties of mothers, there
is none greater on earth, and the Relief
Society is one of the greatest helps in this
direction. “We hope to have some special
meetings where these things may be con-
sidered. Relief Society workers when they
go around making their visits should invite
all the sisters to come to meeting, try to
get all to come who possibly can. Do not
find fault with those who are in authority
over us, for that is where Satan will gain
possession of our minds.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was de-
lighted to meet with the sisters always, and
never regretted coming to a meeting. Dis-
couraged card playing, never saw any good
come from it. “Always be cheerful and
have a contented mind and happy counte-
nance.” Believed that we could make our
meetings more interesting if we would meet
together often and each one strive to do her
duty.
	President M. A. Hyde, of Sanpete Stake,
was delighted to be present and hear the
good instructions given by the sisters. Had
the pleasure of knowing the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and said there were not many left
who had had the privilege of seeing him.
Bore a strong testimony and prayed the
blessing of the Lord to be with all, especial-
ly those who are placed over us to instruct
us.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the new
Granite Stake, said they felt in this new
Stake that the Salt Lake Stake was their
mother. “We feel satisfied with the pres-
ent arrangements, though it is a great re-
sponsibility. I feel like my greatest desire
is to serve the Lord for the rest of my life
When our children are young they need
our care, and even when they are grown
we should not slacken our vigilance, for
they need our care almost as much then.”
	Presided Horne explained that on ac-
count of the unavoidable absence of Sister
Riter, Sister Emma A. Empey had kindly
consented to fill her place. Gave instruc-
tions as to how the nurses should report,
etc. It is quite a trouble and care to look
after the sick, but this is a part of our labors
and we should not shirk them.
	Sister Horne introduced Sister Empey,
who spoke for a few minutes, expressing
her desire to give satisfaction in this posi-

[Column 2]
tion, although she hardly knew what her
duties would be.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said: “We
should live lives of example. Look at the
lives of these our sisters, two of them
eighty years old and over. Let the officers
take the instructions home to their branches
of the society. Let us watch well over our
children, they are our jewels. The sisters
should try to assist their husbands, be care-
ful in financial affairs. What a sad thing it
is to see a Latter-day Saint become a bank-
rupt.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Benediction by President Elizabeth Paul.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“Do what is right,” led by the Temple
choir. Opening prayer by Sister Julia C.
Howe. Singing, “Jesus I my cross have
taken.”
	The minutes of the afternoon session of
the conference held December 23 were read
and approved. The annual financial and
statistical report was read and approved,
also the Stake treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President Horne was pleased to see a bet-
ter attendance, and urged all the sisters in
the Stake to make an effort to attend. The
influence of the example of the mother was
very hard to eradicate from the minds of
the children. The Prophet said that a
good and pure woman was a fit companion
for angels and her influence over her asso-
ciates was unbounded. Spoke of the neces-
sity of being humble. A humble spirit has
more influence over the people than the
words of great orators. Our trials and
temptations only serve as means of prov-
ing us. We will get our reward for the
good we do and the faith we have. Testi-
fied of the following occurrence which hap-
pened in Canada, at the home of a Mrs.
Walton, near Toronto. Those present were
John Taylor and wife, John Snider and
wife, Joseph Fielding and two sisters,
Joseph Horne and wife and some others.
The Prophet related with great force and
power the circumstances connected with the
bringing forth of the Book of Mormon. His
face and whole body seemed full of light.
Advised the sisters to learn as much as pos-
sible about the Church, and also endeavor
to keep in touch with what is going on in
the world. Prayed for the spirit of the
Lord to bless and prompt us to do right,
and to encourage and cheer us continually.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses, spoke of her inability to con-
tinue the work, because of sickness in her
family. Commended those nurses who had
fulfilled every duty required of them in
caring for the poor and sick. Said those
who are most prompt to answer the calls of
charity are the best nurses and are compe-
tent to receive the best wages. Mrs. Riter
spoke at some length in a very interesting
way of the work performed and the spirit
manifested by the nurses. Hoped they
would receive encouragement from the
Society officers, and desired always the sup-
port of the sisters and the blessings of her
Heavenly Father.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde moved that a
vote of thanks be given Sister Riter for her
very efficient work, and hoped she would
soon be able to take it up again; carried.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then spoke of
the 17th of March, the day on which the
Relief Society was organized, and hoped
each ward would celebrate the day in such
a way that an impression would be made on

[Column 3]
the minds of the people in the ward. Make
it a day long to be remembered. She was
very much interested in all work which
would make the Relief Society the best and
most efficient society for the development of
women on the earth. The sisters will never
regret the work they do in the Relief Soci
ety. Referred to the silk industry in Utah.
Everything is favorable to the raising of
silk, but there was not enough cocoons
raised to warrant an experiment station.
The silk commission will assist any one
who wishes to learn about the work. The
Utah silk commission, of which President
Zina D. H. Young was chairman, sent an
elegant black brocaded silk dress, made of
Utah silk, to Miss Anthony as a birthday
present on her eightieth birthday anniver-
versary. Sister Wells spoke of the EX-
PONENT as the organ of the Relief Society.
Said it always contained reports of the Re-
lief Society of the various Stakes of Zion,
and news of interest educational to women.
She had been requested to prepare a com-
plete file for the Paris Exposition, and ex-
pected to do so, with suitable bindings for
that great occcasion. Urged the
sisters to support the paper, it was a
woman’s paper for women. Spoke of hav-
ing represented the Relief Society in the
International Congress in London last sum-
mer. Hoped the sisters would do all they
could to forward the work of the society
We have much information to give
to strangers and we should prepare our-
selves.
	President Zina D. H. Young requested
that every president should have a copy of
the EXPONENT. The Lord will eventually
open the way for the furtherance of His
work. Prayed for the blessings of the
Lord continually to accompany His daugh-
ters.
	President Horne wished the wards to
celebrate the 17th of March. “Officers of
the Salt Lake Stake will meet in the 14th
ward hall four weeks from to day.”
	The Temple choir sang “O, Paradise,”
and the conference was adjourned for three
months, or the first Saturday in June.
Closing prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas.
		AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.
LOS ANGELOS.
	Our little branch at Los Angelos is really
not so large as it has been, owing to many
leaving for Utah, Idaho and other places.
Still, some have been added to the Church
through the labors of our faithful Elders in
this mission.
	Our Relief Society, though not making
so much headway as we could desire, is not
asleep, by any means.
	The president of our branch, Elder H.
C. Jacobson, thought proper some two
weeks since to have a social gathering of
Saints and friends, hiring a large hall for
this purpose. An admission fee was
charged, which proved a success. We took
advantage of this opportunity to offer needle
work for sale, made by the sisters, which
we soon disposed of, realizing some ten dol-
lars. We have one or two friends who are
needy and must do what we can to help
them. We felt pleased with our work, and
all enjoyed themselves, friends as well as
Saints.
	I wish to say my address will again be
531 Court St., which please note. Wish-
ing the compliments of the season, I re-
main,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
