MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, lovingly known
by many thousands of people as “Aunt
Zina,” has had a most remarkable life his-
tory. Being one of the early Church
members, she has known the mobbings
and drivings, plundering and persecution of
various kinds experienced in this age of
the world only by the people of whose
religion she has been ever a most zealous
and a leading member. But it is of that
part of her life, (and that is a considerable
portion) which has been spent in Relief
Society work to which I will now refer.
It was shortly after the first organization
of the Relief Society, effected by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, and in-
cluding but nineteen members, that Aunt
Zina became a member. She was then a
young woman about twenty-one years of
age. Being now seventy-nine, a long life
has been employed in the exercise of

[Column 2]
charity, that grace denominated by St.
Paul as the greatest of all.
The expulsion of the people from Nauvoo
made it impossible for the Relief Society to
continue operating long as an organized
body. But that very event, by the sick-
ness, suffering and sorrow entailed, made
greater the demands upon the sisters for
charity in acts of love and kindness.
Not long after the settlement of the
Saints in Salt Lake valley, the Relief
Society was organized “as a natural out-
growth of the parent society in Nauvoo.”
It was the desire of President Young that
Miss Eliza R. Snow assist in forming the
organizations with Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
as her counselor. The Relief Society
branches have increased until now they
exist in all of the forty-two Stakes of Zion,
in outside states and in foreign lands,
wherever are located enough members of
the Church to organize one. At one time
there were thirty branches of the Relief
Society on the Sandwich Islands; the num-
ber is now probably twenty-nine, emigra-
tion causes some changes. There are
some in Germany and Switzerland, also in
Norway, Sweden, Denmark, England,
Scotland, Wales and Ireland. In the
United States they exist in Kansas City,
Chicago, the states of Washington, Oregon,
California, Nevada, Idaho and Arizona.
And in Canada and Mexico there are or-
ganized Stakes. Each Stake has its set of
Relief Society officers complete, and these
are presided over by the general board.
Aunt Zina has lived to see the Relief
Society grow from that one organization in
Nauvoo to six hundred branches, with a
membership of over thirty thousand. She has
been present at and assisted in the organ-
ization of very many of these, traveling in
heat or cold, sunshine or storm, comfort or
discomfort, as the circumstances allowed.
And when not so engaged she has spent
much of her time in visiting different Stakes
and organizations, giving instruction and
counsel, ministering unto the sick, com-
forting and inspiring to good works all with
whom she came in contact by the blessed
influence of her heavenly spirit. Besides
all the other work she has done, she has
presided innumerable times at the impor-
tant event of incoming life. And none can
say how many times she has been present
to bless and to comfort the sick and the
dying. With patience and long-suffering
has she listened to the plaints of poor
humanity, ministering in either a spiritual
or temporal way. For many years she
was chief nurse in the family of President
Young. Often and often she has been
called an “angel of mercy.” Viewing the
work she has done, one is led to think she
had a special mission to fill in this life, per-
haps appointed unto her “before the
foundation of the earth.”
After the death of the president, Eliza R.
Snow in December, 1887, the general board
was reorganized with Zina D. H. Young as
president, a position she has continued to
fill with dignity and honor to the present
time.
Under the auspices of the Relief Society

[Column 3]
a great effort has been made to establish
the silk industry in Utah. In the year
1857 President Brigham Young sent for
silk worm eggs, and, at his request, Aunt
Zina commenced the raising and care of the worms, beginning June 1, 1869, at
Forest farm, now known as Forest Dale.
She was the pioneer in that line of work in
our State, and was made president of the
Silk Association, organized later. She and
her aids traveled the length and breadth of
the territory, using the most earnest efforts
to get the industry well established.
Another great work done by the Relief
Society was the organization of the Deseret
Hospital Association, on May 12, 1882.
Eliza R. Snow was president, with Zina D.
H. Young vice-president, and a full corps
of officers. “The Relief Society Stake
presidents were members of the honorary
committee, and were expected to represent,
the interests of the hospital in their respec-
tive localities.” After years of toil and
struggle the hospital was closed.
In all of these labors Aunt Zina has been
one of the foremost workers. But the
general public cannot realize the beauty of
her home life. I heard one of her children
say she had never known her mother to
utter an impatient word at the trials and
difficulties besetting her. She took them
as lessons intended for her by the Great
Father. And one may say she has gradu-
ated with honor from the school of patient
endurance and self-sacrifice. Man has his
special fields of labor and woman hers. Aunt Zina has done what it would have
been impossible for man to accomplish.
Her spirit is one of the meekest of the earth
and yet one of the most majestic. Presi-
dent Young paid high tributes to her
qualities as a mother. One of her admir-
ers penned the following lines, which it
seems appropriate to quote:
“In little ways unknown to a man  Aunt Zina oft has raised her hand, To soothe the heart, the swollen eye,
When none but she and God were nigh. She’s traveled o’er the dusty plain,
The desert hot in hail and rain,
And talked where brethren could not.”
A sketch of Aunt Zina’s life necessarily
includes much of the work done by the
society, but not all. The charity work
that has been done, in the way of feeding
and clothing the poor, making quilts to
comfort them through the inclement season,
looking after the sick, dying and dead,
alleviating the sorrows of the distressed—of
this work all can never be told. Besides
this, lands have been bought and halls
erected for the use of the society. When
the society became national and inter-
national some advantages were gained.
The president of the general board and a
delegate have the privilege of represent-
ing the society at the National Council of
Women. In that way an idea of the great
work done by the Relief Society organiz-
ation is given to women from all parts of
the world. Aunt Zina and others have
gone to represent us at these councils.
The most recent move of great impor-
tance is the organization of the nurses


class. In the Salt Lake Stake women re-
ceive instruction free, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
instructor, and in return, after their train-
ing, they give their services free for a cer-
tain time, subject to the call of the superin-
tendent, Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter.
The next thing greatly to, be desired is
to awaken an active interest in the younger
women of the Church, particularly those
who by natural endowment or superior edu-
cational advantages could help give an im-
petus to the work. Perhaps then the much
desired central building in Salt Lake City
could become a reality. A building where
all the important records of the Relief
Society could be kept, a library maintained
and perhaps sleeping apartments and din-
ing room for the entertainment of distant
visitors, an assembly room, recreation hall,
and bureau of information.
Perhaps, too, as the work becomes en-
larged, the poor will be so well cared for
by establishing industries and giving em-
ployment to the able and caring for the
unable, that real poverty would scarcely be
known.
Perhaps, too, rooms can be found, and,
what is more, just the right teachers to
gather the children from the streets in the
evening, affording them attractive enter-
tainment and profitable instruction, which
might be the means of saving many
precious souls. The great and admirable
work that has been done can be recorded,
but the work that may in the future be
done, only a prophet can fortell. Anything
in the way of good and charitable work
done in an organized way may be imagined
and perhaps become a reality.
