ANOTHER PIONEER GONE.

	Died, January 19, 1900, in the sixty-
ninth year of her age, Mary Stone, at her
home in Alameda Co., California. She
was born August 7, 1831, in Sucick Co.,
New Jersey. Here her parents joined the
Church and emigrated to Kirtland, Ohio,
and afterwards to Nauvoo, Ill. She was
married in March, 1846, to John Murdock,


and left with the Saints in the same
spring for Winter Quarters on the Mis-
souri river. Her young husband died in
August, the day before arriving at their
destination, and was the first white man
buried in the Indian mound at Winter
Quarters. This left her a widow at the
age of fifteen. Her father, David Norris,
was killed at Nauvoo on the 16th of
September, the same year, while with
others defending the homes of the Saints
from mob violence. Her mother died in
November, six weeks later, while on her
journey to Winter Quarters.
	Sister Mary Norris Murdock started
with the pioneer companies in the spring
of 1847, for the valley, arriving the latter
part of September. Two years later she
was married to Samuel Holmes and was
one of the first settlers in Kaysville,
known as Holmes ranch, two and a half
miles north of Haight's ranch. While
living there she had seven children born,
and sometime in the sixties she emigrated
with her husban and family to San Fran-
cisco, and from there to Mission San Jose,
where another child was born. Three
months later her husband was accidentally 
killed by the falling of a ladder while topping
out a hay stack. Eight years after, she
married Mr. Stone. She had two children
born to her by this marriage.
	All her journey from New Jersey to her
home in San Francisco was done by teams
in covered wagons. She was of a patient,
hopeful nature, and was beloved for her
many noble qualities. She was ever ready
to respond to the call of any one in sick-
ness, and for many years was found at the
bedside of her neighbors for miles around,
many times going in the night over rough
roads, administering comfort to the suf-
fering. She passed quietly away sur-
rounded by the loving faces of her chil-
dren. Her sister, Louisa Norris Dicker,
who resides in this city, was telegraphed
for but only arrived a few hours after her
sister had breathed her last, which was a
sad disappointment, as they were very
fond of each other.
	Sister Stone had a complimentary ticket
to the pioneer Jubilee, and came here after
thirty-five years absence, meeting many
old friends and making some new ones.
She would often speak of it afterwards as
one of the great pleasures of her life.
						L. N. D.


