TRUSTEES.
Mrs. Phoebe. A. Hearst, California; Mrs.
Calvin B. Brice, Ohio; Mrs. H. H. Adams,
Connecticut; Mrs. Wm. T. Carter, Pennsyl-
vania; Mrs. John L. Routt, Colorado; Mrs.
Leslie C. Wead, Massachusetts.
Recording Secretary of Association—
Mrs. Susanna P. Gage, Ithaea, N. Y.
Recording Secretary of Board—Mrs.
Leslie C. Wead, Brookline, Mass.
Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. John
Russell Young. Washington, D. C.
In the opening address the president, Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson, said: “We
seek on this occasion to promote the final
and supreme, object which Washington
sought to secure in the last hours of his
life. However much confused the work-
ings of this association may become on ac-
count of the long postponed governmental
action and defeated legislation, we never-
theless can but anticipate the happy day
when the last purpose of Washington shall
be in some manner fulfilled. The fulfill-
ment may not come in the very terms which
he prescribed, but fortune and Providence
may yet combine to make such a fulfillment
as shall demonstrate the loyalty of the
American people to the memory of their
first and greatest citizen.”
Greetings were read from Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow, president of the D. R. Soci-
ety; Mrs. Daniel Manning, president of the
D.A. R. Society Mrs. W. B. Lowe, presi-
dent of the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, and others.
The report of the treasurer, Mrs. Frank
Northrop, showed an addition of $6,000 to
the contingent and building funds, and
pledges of $8,000 to the building fund. Four
hundred and eighty-two members have
been admitted during the year, making a
total membership of over fourteen thousand.
Reports of State Chairmen and Questions
of Policy occupied the second day’s session,
which adjourned at 4 p. m., to allow the
members to attend the memorial celebra-
tion in Epiphany Church. The charter
membership closed at noon, December 14,
1898, and many distinguished names were
added to the members, among them, Hon.
James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture;
Dr. Dabney, President of the University of
Tennessee; Mrs. Ellen Hardin Walworth,
Saratoga, N. Y., and Mr. Charles D. Wal-
cott, Director U. S. Geological Survey.
Letters were read from Dr. Benjamin
Ide Wheeler, President of the University
of California, and Dr. Shurman, President
of Cornell University, and a member of the
Education Committee, endorsing the estab-
lishment of a national university, and re-
marks were made to this end by Dr. Dab-
ney, Mr. Walcott and Dr. W. J. McGee,
Chief of the Bureau of Ethnology, all em-
phasizing the purpose and object of the
association to build a Memorial Building,
which shall be devoted to such educational
uses as shall fulfill, as far as possible, the
wishes of Washington, as the policy of the
Association.
In the evening a solemn observance of
the centennial of Washington’s death was
held in the Lafayette Opera House. This
commemoration was by the women of the
land through the George Washington Mem-
orial Association, which, some three years
ago, suggested that there be some national
observance of the day in Washington. The
celebration was of the most solemn and im-
pressive character and filled the Opera
House with a large audience of representa-
tive men and women. In the boxes were
representatives of the Cabinet, Diplomatic
Corps and Supreme Court, and in the seats


heads of colleges, government officials, rep-
resentatives of different creeds and men of
different political minds—all there to testify
to the universal love and esteem in which
Washington is held today.
	The theatre was decorated with flags, tall
palms and other potted plants. A portrait
of Washington and the President’s flag
were suspended over the heads of the
speakers. Over a hundred members of the
Washington Choral Union occupied the
rear of the platform, singing “Before Jeho-
vah’s Mighty Throne” and the Hallelujah
Chorus, with telling effect. The instru-
mental music was furnished by the Fourth
Artillery band, which was present by
special order of the secretary of War. After
the rendition of Chopin’s Funeral March
and another dead march, “At Rest,” fre-
quently played at military funerals, the
exercises were opened by the Right Rev.
Henry Y. Satterlee, Bishop of Washington,
who offered a fervent prayer, invoking the
Creator to instil into the American people
the national spirit which so strongly char-
acterized the life of Washington.
	Hon. John A. Kasson, former minister
to Austria and Germany, acting as Master
of Ceremonies, reading an original letter of
Washington’s and speaking briefly of his
will, in which he devoted part of his for-
tune to the establishment of a national
University. He said in closing, “Wash-
ington proposed no elaborate mausoleum
for himself, no monument to his own great-
ness, no memorial bridges, but his great
heart and intellect did desire a monument
of good, not formed of marble, but of loving
stones, a National University into which
advanced students might enter from every
section of the land, and remove sectional
lines and local prejudices. His chief wish
has remained unfilled for a hundred years.
It is singularly appropriate that the noble
womanhood of the land should at last
undertake the fulfillment of his last desire.”
	Dr. W. J. McGee read the extract from
Washington’s will bequeathing to Congress
fifty shares of the Potomac Company to be
used for the establishment of a National
University.
	Dr. P. B. Barringer, President of the
University of Virginia, gave an account of
Washington’s death, Dr. J. L. Curry,
former Minister to Spain, spoke at consider-
able length on “Washington as a framer of
the Constitution,” and after music by the
Choral Union Dr. Chas. W. Dabney, Resi-
dent of the University of Tennessee, made
the closing address. He referred to Wash-
ington as our first great expansionist, early
seeking to extend our government over the
western country and bind all its people to
us. “Everything he did,” the speaker
said, “from the forming of the Constitution,
which was to bind the states together, to
the construction of inland lines of naviga-
tion, which were to bind them together in
commerce, had for its object the develop-
ment of the national spirit—all his plans
were shaped to this end, that America, the
land of the free, should become a great
nation.”
	A letter was read from Cardinal Gibbons,
praising Washington’s toleration of religion,
and the ceremonies concluded with “The
Star Spangled Banner.”
	The last session, December 15, was de-
voted to amending the by-laws, and new
business, and at its close the members sep-
arated, feeling that the Association was
nearer the attainment of its object than
ever before.		KATE H. WARD.


