		JULIA IVINS MCDON4LD PACE.
 
   A womanly woman; what more can we say ?
Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful day;
As such she was greeted, and if women we be,
As such we shall know her eternally.
  
   Death comes to all, but never does it come with
more crushing sadness than when a mother is sud-
denly called from home and little ones; and when
to the noble qualifications of wife and motherhood
is added marked ability and a desire to be helpful
to one’s fellow creatures, then indeed is the blow
twofold,
   Such a woman was Julia Ivins McDonald Pace,
who was unexpectedly called away in the prime of
womanhood, while her babe was sleeping upon
her arm. So far as health would permit she had
been an active worker in many associations,
having been connected at different times with the
Primary, Young Ladies and Relief Society organ-
zations. She was also secretary of the Silk Asso-
ciation of St. George. Earlier in life she went to
Ann Arbor to study medicine, but her health fail-
ing her, she returned home, not being able to
complete the course.
   She was a charter member of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club, and a member of the Committee on
Bylaws, her home being in Salt Lake City at the
time of its organization; and although later she
moved to St. George, we were proud to retain her
as an honorary member.
   She was a writer of no mean order, having
written many excellent papers for the club and for
the press. Her stories, too, may be found in
many of our home publications.
   Our beloved sister, now deceased, was born
December 2, 1859, and died January 17, 1900.
She is the first member of the Press Club called 
away by death.

Methinks that I see the Books opened,
And an angel the pages turn o’er.
Till he comes to her name, when he pauses—
“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;
Thy life has been weighed in the balance,
Which tipped at the mark of pure gold,
By thy name is recorded most worthy,
‘Enter into the joy of thy Lord.’ ”
RUTH M. FOX,
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
LUCY A. CLARK,
Committee.
Resolutions of Respect.
Passed out of regard for the memory of
				a good woman.

   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Pather in His infinite
wisdom, has deemed it best to call unto Himself
our beloved co-worker, Julia A. McDonald Pace,
who recently departed this life in St. George
Utah; and
   WHEREAS, She has been suddenly removed from
us in the prime of a useful life, wherein all the
powers of her talented mind and sympathetic
heart, over-taxed her physical endurance, in her
devotion to the cause of truth and the building up
of God’s kingdom upon the earth, therefore be it
   RESOLVED, That the General Board of the
Primary Association bow in humble submission to
the will of the Great Creator.
   RESOLVED, that we deeply regret the loss of her
valued counsels and zealous labor, in behalf of
the Primary children of Zion.
   RESOLVED, That we extend to her family our
heartfelt sympathy in their bereavement. 
   RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our records, one sent to the Deseret
News and Woman’s Exponent for publication, and
one presented to the sorrowing family.
LOUIE B. FELT, President,
MAY ANDERSON, Secretary.


