POLYGAMY AND UNLAWFUL
COHABITAION.
	From the reading of the various editorials
and articles of the public press it is evident
that there is much misconstruction and mis-
understanding as to the present attitude of
our Church respecting the subjects of poly-
gamy and unlawful cohabitation; and be-
lieving that many good and conscientious
people have been misled and much adverse
criticism occasioned thereby, I feel it but
just to both “Mormons” and non-“Mor-
mons” to state that, in accordance with the
manifesto of the late President Wilford
Woodruff, dated September 25, 1890,
which was presented and unanimously ac-
cepted by our General Conference on the
6th of October, 1890, the Church has
positively abandoned the practice of poly-
gamy, or the solemnization of plural mar-
riages, in this and every other State, and
that no officer or member thereof has any
authority whatever to perform a plural
marriage or enter into any such relation.
Nor does the Church advise or encourage
unlawful cohabitation on the part of any of
its members. If, therefore, any member
disobeys the law, either as to polygamy or
unlawful cohabitation, he must bear his
own burden: or in other words, be answer-
able to the tribunal of the land for his own
action pertaining thereto.
	With a sincere desire that the position of
our Church as to polygamy and unlawful
cohabitation may be better understood, and
with best wishes for the welfare and happi-
ness of all, this statement is made, and is
respectfully commended to the careful con-
sideration of the public generally.
				LORENZO SNOW.
President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
		Latter-day Saints.
	Salt Lake City, January 8, 1900.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR AND THE NEW
CENTURY.
	In entering upon a new year one always
tries to cast off the old sorrows or troubles,
and look forward with bright anticipation
to the near future, hoping good will come,
prosperity, health and such measure of
happiness as is reasonable to expect.
	America, or the United States at least,
seems in the beginning of this year (said to
be the closing of the nineteenth century,
although there are differences of opinion
among “the wise men” to be in a rathe

[Column 2]
prosperous stage of activity, as compared
with many, indeed most other countries.
So far the people of these United States have
reason to be thankful and to congratulate
themselves, that conditions are so favorable
for future peace and prosperity; yet one
never knows what may transpire. Still it
is right to enjoy the blessings which are
vouchsafed by an Alwise Providence and
trust our Heavenly Father for the future, if
we ourselves comply with His laws and
live by His precepts.
	When one takes into consideration the
calamities that visit the inhabitants of the
earth from time to time, it does seem one
cannot be too careful in keeping all the
commandments God has given to the chil-
dren of men, line upon line and precept
upon precept. The Savior’s injunction,
“Be ye also ready,” is one to be thought of
by all. It is well that time is divided and
subdivided, else when one would stop and
consider anything might be a question in
this day of hurry, worry, bustle and ex-
citement. Holidays are good for the peo-
ple for many reasons. The wish for “a hap-
py new year,” that passes from one to
another, although it is done almost mechan-
cally, is a very good custom. It sets one
to thinking, though the thoughts are often
reminiscent.
	The past year has been one of great sig-
ficance and fraught with much importance
to the world, and also to our own country.
The Peace Conference at The Hague marks
a great change in affairs of the world, al-
though its direct effects are not so tangible
as to satisfy those who looked for im-
mediate arbitration; yet it is a step in the
direction of an era of better things.
	The terrible Transvaal war between
South Africa and Great Britain, is certainly
one of the greatest events in the history of
modern times. The death rate among the
British officers is something appalling. One
would think there was need of peace leagues
and every other kind of organization and
influence, brought to bear in favor of put-
ting a stop to “man’s inhumanity to man.”
Would that the time had come to
	Let those who make the quarrels, be the only
		ones who fight,
as the old song says. One hardly likes to
venture further than generalities in speak-
ing of these matters. That the Lord will
come out of his hiding place and vex the
nations we read in the scriptures, and we
know assuredly that the prophecies of both
ancient and modern prophets will come to
pass; therefore it behooves all in the open-
ing of a new year, as well as at all other
times, to look well to our own conduct, and
not judge others, but leave them in the
hands of the Lord, who will do unto all as
seemeth good in His sight, and who knows
all men’s lives and conditions and the in-
ward promptings of their hearts.
	The past has been a wonderful year for
progress in many lines, and when one con-
templates the century as a whole, the ad-
vancement is greater than any previous
one of which we, who live today, have any
knowledge. In art, in science, (many of .
them) in literature, in inventions, in dis-
coveries, in mental and spiritual develop-
ment and awakening, what marvels have
been wrought!
	The Latter-day Saints as a people have
every reason to rejoice in the achievements
of this glorious century. The Lord has
spoken from the heavens and through his
servants has established a work on the

[Column 3]
earth never to be thrown down, or given to
another people. There is so much to do in
this world of ours, that we have no strength
to waste in repining. We must be active
and watchful and try to help on the world’s
great work, as well as do our individual
own. Selfishness is not the spirit of the
Gospel, but consecration to God and our
fellowmen. To lift up humanity should
be our aim and prayer. Earnestness in
any noble cause will effect much in what-
ever is undertaken with the right motive.
	The women of our people (the Latter-day
Saints) have much to do in rolling on the
world’s great work. Some have already
been set apart to preach the Gospel in
foreign lands, and that many more will be,
there is little doubt. The world is making
great progress, and women are gradually
moving forward into broader fields and be-
coming more and more consecrated in their
lives to the higher spiritual work. When
one calls to mind the work our sisters are
doing in the several woman’s Church or-
ganizations and the Sabbath School, the
ministering in the Temples that have been
built and dedicated to the work of the Lord,
for the living and for the dead, besides the
home teaching, it is grand to contemplate.
Certainly the days are filled up in useful-
ness.
	Whatever may transpire, let the women
of Zion at least be prepared by faith, hope
and trust, and by living daily lives dedi-
cated to the noblest, holiest and purest
motives and impulses, that they may draw
from the fountains of inspiration, wisdom,
knowledge and understanding, and be able
to impart to those less highly, favored, prin-
ciples of truth that shall encourage the
weary and comfort the disconsolate, and
teach those ignorant of divine truths the
way of eternal life, that the daughters of
Zion may have their lamps always trimmed
and burning, not only to light their own
way, but to show others who walk in dark-
ness the true path, if they will but follow
after righteousness.
	The past year has been rich in blessings
for the women of Zion. They have had
great opportunities vouchsafed to them of
enlightenment in many ways, and avenues
have been opened that were scarcely
thought possible—and yet it has all been
in the fulfillment of prophecy, which is a
testimony to the faithful that this is the
work of the Lord, and should cause the
Saints to become mindful of Him and ac-
knowledge His hand in all things, in ad-
versity as well as in prosperity, that He
may not forget them in the hour of trouble
or sorrow. Strive to live by the Golden
Rule and love our neighbor as ourselves,
and try to lift up our fellowmen. One may
easily close one’s exhortation with the
scriptural quotation which covers itr a few
words the present and future:
	Wherefore be ye steadfast, immovable, always
abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as
ye know that your labor is not in vain in the
Lord.


