A WOMAN MISSIONARY.

	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
		(Continued.)
	Today I called the native sisters together
to instruct them in their religious duties.
Ellen acted as interpreter, and succeeded
remarkably well. This she has been able
to do for several months. The sisters spoke
in turns, each expressing a desire that I
might soon have a knowledge of their
language, and speak with my own lips
directly to them. I shall soon make an
attempt to do so, and having their faith
and prayers, shall be certain of success.
	October 6th. Memorable day ! Confer-
ence convenes today in Salt Lake City. The
remembrance creates deep sensations in my
mind. I sigh to be there, although I do
not wish to leave my labors here. Before
another month rolls around “Paraita” will
be gone to Ravavai, then we shall be still
more lonely. How much it would animate
us could we see business going on; see men
plowing, sowing grain, driving teams;
have the sound of axes and hammering;
see houses building. But here monotony
reigns supremely. All I hear is the sound
of mallets making native cloth.
	On the 8th, (Wednesday) a party of us
went on a pleasure excursion to some small
islands five miles distant. We landed on
the largest, nineteen souls in all. It is a
beautiful island covered all over with tama-
na and cocoanut trees. The soil is fine,
white sand, which contrasts beautifully
with the green trees. I walked around the
Island, picked up shells and some fine
specimens of coral. The men caught fish,
made an oven in the ground and cooked us
a meal consisting of fruits and vegetables
growing on the Island. The men threw
up a shelter for us with brush and leaves,
under which we spread our bedding and
slept well through the night. The children
explored the Island thoroughly, climbed the
trees, made new discoveries in shrubbery
and flowers. We sailed home with a
pleasant breeze, and passed the village
where the workmen were engaged building
a schooner. They saluted us with loud
voices, "Iu ora nu otou to have ra mai,"
(peace be to you in returning home.)
	I sometimes walk to the opposite village
where the ship is building; distance five
miles. I can walk under the shade of trees
the whole way, sit down in a cooling shade,
rest myself and renew my jonrney. Thus
we resort to changes, and trifling though
they be, they serve to enliven the mind.
	Mr. Pratt preaches regularly in the
native tongue, which I can now under-
stand tolerably well. Baptisms occur
nearly every Sabbath. I wrote an address
to be read in a woman’s meeting, which Mr.
Grouard translated into the Tahitian for me.
They seemed greatly to admire it. I read
to them the 12th chapter of Isiaah, con-
taining, proof of the origin of the Book of
Mormon. Ellen explained and commented
upon it. They inquired if the ancient
Nephites were Europeans? I told them
they were the ancient fathers of the Tahi-
tians. At this they appeared greatly inter-
ested, and wished to learn more about the
book. No organ of their craniums is more
prominent than marvelousness.
	October 19th. Sabbath it is with us, but
not with those at home. One day is lost in
coming here via Cape Horne, one gained by
coming via Cape Good Hope. The natives
have a superstition that if they should fail

[Column 2]
to keep the right Sabbath someone of their
number would sicken and die. Yesterday
Captain Johnson’s vessel sailed. It has
been lying here several days. We were
hoping it would bring us letters from home,
but only one came to us from Tahiti, writ-
ten by Elder Dunn, who is now nearly
ready to embark for America. He is in
very poor health, and we feel in doubt
about his reaching home, but pray earnest-
ly that he may. So our dear little Mary
must leave us with her step-father, Captain
J.   Seven months has she been a visitant
in our family, and by her modest behavior
has endeared herself to us all, more especial-
ly Frances, who has been her constant
teacher. As she has never been fond of
children, her attachment to Mary, we hope,
may effect a change in her. So submissive
and obedient has she ever been to Frances,
she cannot avoid feeling deep sympathy for
her.
	The 24th. Today arrived a schooner
from the Chain Islands, Captain Hervey.
The king of Ravaivai was on board. He
informed us that the missionary house
built of late has been thrown down in a
gale of wind. Last evening native dancing
was heard, much to our annoyance. Their
music consisted of two drums, a small
instrument made of a weed which grows
here, making a low, sweet sound. Captain
Hervey and Mr. Bourne attended the exer-
cises, drank too freely, quarelled and fought.
Today they had a court over the affray.
Such is the example white men set before
the natives.
	The 27th day. Set sail for Raivavai
with a fine breeze; eighty natives on board.
The air being pleasant, we all slept on
deck. Some of the Island women had
never been so far from home before. They
were very sea sick, although all their lives
accustomed to go out in open boats.
	The second day at ten o’clock we made
the island. It is more mountainous than
Tahiti. The small town near where we
landed presents a lively appearance from
the sea. The house of worship looks like a
city hotel, with white walls and green
window blinds. A long row of ito trees
standing in front, small trunks and large
tops, gives the town the appearance of an
Eastern village at a distance, but as you
draw near the scene changes. All around
the “Fere bare ra” the place is thoroughly
clean. A wide stone pavement surrounds
it. The inside work displays taste and
ingenuity. The pulpit is built very high
and the stairs leading up to it are painted
green. As I entered the building, I thought
how much the poor people had striven to
imitate civilized life. The seats are made
of dark wood the color of mahogany, with
a great variety of carved work upon them.
	Queen Rupah, from Tupuin, came with
ns. She brought her fine clotting given
her by the French merchants. She dressed
very handsomely to go on shore, but would
not wear shoes. The king of the Island
appears a kind, good man, is full in the
faith that his people will receive the Gospel.
Those belonging to the English church
commenced looking in their Bibles to forti-
fy themselves with arguments, should any
attack be made against, their doctrines. The
king built a house, intending to have Paraita
and his family remain there, but its being
destroyed by a wind storm was a premoni-
tion to us that it was not the will of the
Lord that we should make a lengthy stay
there.
		(To be continued.)


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
