EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have given considerable space to the
George Washington Association because of
the call made and the money raised by the
school children of Utah for the Memorial
Building to be erected in Washington, D.
C. It is well to let the people here and the
children know how far the matter has ad-
vanced and what is really being accom-
plished.
	Tuesday, March 20, was open day at the
Cleofan and the visitors were entertained
delightfully at the home of Mrs. James H.
Moyle. Mrs. Cora Hooper Eldridge gave
a lecture on Oriental Art, illustrated with
rugs, pottery, pictures and dainty articles
that made the subject exceedingly inter-
esting, as was also the conversation at the
time tea was served after the lecture was
over. The Cleofan seems to be quite a pro-
gressive club of exceptionally bright young
women, and many of its members are giving
marked attention to the fine arts.
	The Countess of Derby laid the founda-
tion-stone of the Rectory at St. Albans,
Cheatwood, England. The Earl, her hus-
band, was present. The St. Albans Mis-
sion Guild cleared the ground, the ladies
provided tea for the diggers each Saturday
afternoon until the work was done. This
ceremony performed by a woman is new in
the world; we have had one instance only
of which the writer is aware here in Utah.
President Sarah M. Kimball laid the corner
stone of the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society
hall in the year 1868.
	Sisters M. G. Clawson and P. J. Kimball
gave a Kensington on Tuesday, March 20,
at Sister Clawson’s residence. About sixty


[Column 1]
ladies were present, all old friends, making
the affair a very entertaining one indeed.
Carnations and smilax were used in the
decorations, which made the beautiful par-
lors even more attractive. Sister Clawson
has for years been famous for her dainty
culinary accomplishments, and, of course,
the “tea” was exceptionally fine, and the
ladies lingered around the artistically ar-
ranged tea tables, chatting of other days,
longer than etiquette requires. Both Mrs.
Clawson and her Sister, Mrs. Kimball, are
charming hostesses.
	The Seventeenth of March was pretty
generally observed here and it is ardently
hoped that it was also in other Stakes of
Zion. Condensed history of the Society
itself and sketches of its founders, and
items from the teachings of Joseph Smith
the Prophet, were among the exercises on
the program in some of the wards, together
with music, hymns and songs suitable to
the occasion. In some places parties were
held and dancing was indulged in, and in
others social reunions were given and the
old folks were feasted and made happy.
The day has been observed according to
the wish of the General Board and it has
doubtless made an impression that will be
lasting in the minds of the people. The
17th being Saturday, it was more conven-
ent for some of the branches to celebrate
on Friday, and as each organization could
choose what hour seemed most suitable,
therefore invited guests had the opportunity
to visit several of the meetings.
	The Fifteenth Ward Relief Society held
its meeting in the new hall which the sis-
ters have had finished and furnished during
the past year. It is quite commodious and
was neatly and appropriately decorated.
Mrs. H. A. Badger presided and about
seventy-five members, including a few
visitors, were present. Remarks were
made by President M. Isabella Horne and
Elder L. John Nuttall, and among the
exercises Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a verbal
sketch of the late president of the Society,
Sister S. M. Kimball and read a poem by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, written for
the Society, and also an address by Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow, made in July, 1868.
At intervals music and recitations were
rendered. Sister Prudie Brown read a
poem written especially for the meeting by
Sister Mary E. Morris, who was unavoid-
ably kept at home by illness. The musical
exercises, conducted by the choir leader,
Brother Ashman, were exceptionally good.
	The Third Ward Relief Society held its
anniversary meeting to celebrate the first
organization in Nauvoo, on Saturday,
March 17, at 2 p. m., in the meeting
house, Mrs. Frances Smith presiding. The 
secretary had charge of the program.
Visitors present were President M. Isabella
Horne and her counselors, Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, also Elizabeth J.
Stevenson and E. B. Wells, of the General
Board. During the rendering of the music-
al exercises each of the visitors addressed
the meeting. President Horne spoke
mostly upon the signs of the times, quoting
many passages of scripture and prophecies
that are now being fulfilled. The other
subjects referred to were general, though
replete with testimony of the Gospel and
the duties and high calling of the women
of Zion. Sister Wells also alluded to the
advice given by President Z. D. H. Young
in regard to reading the Book of Doctrine

[Column 2]
and Covenants in the Society meetings and
especially the subjects upon faith. Bishop
Maycock made brief remarks at the close
of the meeting. Tables were set in the
vestry where all present partook of deli-
cious refreshments prepared by the Society.
Beautiful flowers adorned the hall and the
good spirit was manifest in all the teach-
ings. President Frances Smith and her
associates are to be congratulated on the
success of their celebration.
	The Twelfth Ward Relief Society con-
vened on Friday evening, in their ward
chapel, President Julia Druce presiding,
and conducting the exercises. The first
feature of the entertainment was dinner
served by a committee of the sisters, who
proved themselves very efficient in the
matter of pleasing their guests. At the
head of one of the long tables sat Bishop
H. B. Clawson and at his left the venerable
president of the Society at large, Sister
Zina D. H. Young, and next to her Sister
Emily Young Clawson, and on the Bishop’s
right was Apostle John Henry Smith and
wife. Sisters E. B. Wells, Julia Druce and
her counselors, J. R. Midgley, Sister
Hooper and others. The feast was abund-
ant and delicious and the conversation
general and interesting. The program was
varied and some of the exercises were
humorous in the extreme, songs and music
very good, and the entertainment passed off
well. Aunt Zina, as she is familiarly
known and lovingly spoken of among the
Saints, made an exceedingly interesting
address, also Apostle John Henry Smith,
Elder L. J. Nuttall and Bishop Clawson
spoke briefly. Sister Midgley read a paper
on the history of the Society and gave a
brief outline of the work of the Society in
that ward, and the several presidents and
officers that had served at different periods
since its organization. The music was
particularly good. We are sorry not to
have space to give the program more fully,
but we can say they have excellent talent
in the Twelfth Ward.
	The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society
celebrated anniversary day March 17,
Saturday evening in the ward hall, Presi-
dent Clarissa S. Williams presiding. The
house was filled with the brethren and sis-
ters and a few invited guests. The sing-
ing was a beautiful feature of the program,
some exquisite songs were rendered, beside
the sacred hymns. Sister B. W. Smith,
one of the presidents of the General Board,
gave a verbal sketch of the first Relief
Society organized in Nauvoo and of its
officers and work. At the close of Sister
Smith’s address, a neat little girl in white
came forward and presented her with an
elegant bouquet of choice flowers. Sister
Julia C. Howe, who had been connected
with the ward since its organization, read a
sketch of the Relief Society in that ward
from the time it was, first organized, men-
tioning in an affectionate manner the sever-
al officers now departed. The secretary,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read a written paper on
The life and labors of “Aunt Zina,”
and the possibilities of the Society, and
paid a beautiful tribute to Aunt Zina, her
labors of love, her tender, sympathetic
nature, her untiring devotion to the inter-
ests of Zion, and her magniminity of char-
acter in all departments of life. The presi-
dent responded in a gracious and humble
manner. Sister E. B. Wells, Apostle John
Henry Smith, Elder L. John Nuttall and
Bishop W. J. Beatie each made brief re-

[Column 3]
marks. Mrs. Williams is an excellent pre-
siding officer and is well beloved in her
ward. Towards the close of the evening’s
exercises a very pretty small silk flag was
presented to Sisters Wells and Williams by
the little girl in white.
	We were very much gratified with the
invitation to attend the sisters’ conference
of Juab Stake, at Nephi, and participate in
the reorganization of the Stake Board of
the Relief Society. President Mary Pitch-
forth, who has had charge of affairs
for seventeen years, had resigned, and that
necessitated a new Board of officers. Apostle
George Teasdale was present at the confer-
ence and spoke in high terms of praise and
commendation of President Pitchforth and
of President Goldsbrough, who preceded
her in the position, and the good sisters
who had labored with them both. Sister
S. A. Cazier sang, very sweetly, “Ever re-
membered for what she has done.” Presi-
dent J. W. Paxman, Counselor C. H.
Sperry and Bishop Parks were all present
at the meeting. The new Board consists of
president, Kate L. Paxman, counselors,
S. A. Cazier and Mary A. Grover; aids, M.
A. May, and S. K. Latimer; secretary,
Una Chappell; assistant secretary, Sarah
Brown; treasurer, Helen Grace. Sister
Mary Pitchforth, the retiring president,
and her counselor, Hannah Jones, were
made Honorary members of the Stake
Board, and a hearty vote of thanks was
given them for their faithful Services in the
past. Conference was held on Friday,
March 23. President H. A. Badger, of the
Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, accompanied
the writer to Nephi and participated in the
business of the meeting; also bore a good
testimony of the Gospel. Sister Mary
Pitchforth has been a model president, but
is at present in very delicate health.
Another visitor at the conference was
President M. A. Hyde, of Sanpete Stake
Relief Society, who bore a strong testimony
concerning Joseph Smith and the Gospel
dispensation.


