U.W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular month- 
ly meeting at the home of Mrs. Emma
Jensen, Saturday, December 30, 1899. 
	The rooms were beautifully decorated for
the occasion. The president in the chair.
Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B. Pratt.
The secretary called the roll, members re-
sponding with original sentiments.
	The resignation of Maria Francis as 2nd
vice-president, and also as a member of the
club, was tendered, and accepted with re-
grets. Mrs. E. B. Wells nominated Emily
S. Richards as 2nd vice-president nomina- 
tion seconded by Dr. Pratt and others, and
carried unanimously.
	A communication was read in regard to
collecting reading matter for the soldiers in
the Philippines, and several ladies volun-
teered to respond to tbe call.
	A communication regarding the Kinder-
garten was read.
	Mrs Schiller reported from the Council
of Women’s Clubs, making definite explana-
tions, and several of the ladies expressed their
views on the subject. Mrs. Helen V.
Kimball was nominated delegate to the
Council.
	A motion was made that Mrs. Wells’
dea in regard to the Kindergarten—that it
was not possible to do what was suggested,
and that the school alluded to was strictly a
district school and should be supported by
those in that locality—was accepted and
carried.
	Mention was made of the handsome pic-
ture presented to the retiring president, Mrs.
Ella W. Hyde, at the October meeting.
	Mrs. Wells moved that the remainder of
the time be spent socially, and the motion
was carried. All were very highly enter-
tained examining the very fine collection of
curios gathered from all parts of the world
by the host and hostess, Mr. and Mrs.
Jensen.
	Sumptuous refreshments were afterwards
served, during which the following musical
program was given: Miss Lizzie Thomas
gave an instrumental selection entitled
“Hearts and Flowers.” “Love I have
Sighed to Rest Me,” was beautifully sung
by Miss Judith Anderson. Mrs. Anderson
and her daughter sang “Whispering Hope,”
and Mrs. Anderson sang “Midst Roses
Sweet.” Miss Minerva and Ella Jensen
and Miss Thomas sang “The Gipsy Coun-
tess,” and the program was concluded with
a song, “Flee as a Bird,” by Judith
Andersen.
