LITTLE THINGS.

At the gates of heaven the angel stood,
Guarding the way to the pure and good,
And passing upon the lives and deeds,
Of those who would enter where it leads.

When a portly man, with form erect,
Looking very wise and circumspect,
Came walking along with lofty mien,
And an air which said, “I’ll go right in.”

He broke the silence, “How do you do,
Please open the gates till I pass through;
I’ve traveled far and would fain sit down,
I am anxious, too, to see my crown.”

How,” said the angel, “thy passport, please,
And name, ere I turn the golden keys;
What hast thou done—tis my right to know,—
While journeying on the sphere below?”

“My passport? Sir, you astonish me!
What I have done all the world could see;
And surely, angel, you know my name,
Why it was rung from the heights of fame.

It was written, too, in letters bold,
On towr’ing buildings in shining gold;
My voice was heard from pulpit, stage,
Indeed my sermons were quite the rage.

I was honored, too, in ev’ry land,
The great and the noble took my hand;
And many wonderful things I did,
My light, good angel, was never hid.

I could wield the pen in prose or rhyme,
My books were read in many a clime,
And in framing laws for humankind,
Mine was considered a master-mind.”

“But,” said the angel, “I prithee tell,
Didst attend to little things so well?”
“Tend to little things,” the great man cried,
“Why, angel, you would not me deride?


You see, mere trifles of little worth,
I left for mortals of common birth.”
Then the angel gravely shook his head,
“Thou hast gained thy just reward,” he said.

On the earth the stars small things appear,
But assume most wondrous position here;
And thou hast failed the crown to win;
Fare thee well, thou canst not enter in.

Then there came a timid little child,
With faltering steps and manner mild;
“Well,” said the angel, “What is thy name?
Didst thou, too, climb to the heights of fame?”

“O, gentle angel, alas,’tis true,
On earth my name was known to few,
But I struggled on the best I could,
Though I know I was not always good.

I could not do much, O angel pure,
For I was weak, but my trust was sure;
So I tried to do each little thing,
The Savior bade me. May I go in?”

He tenderly gazed on the little child,
And clasped her hand, as she wept and smiled;
“Dear little one, thou hast nobly striv’n,
To such as thou is the kingdom giv’n.”
