RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
April 5, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. It is desired that there should
be a large attendance of the members, and
that each Stake organization should be
represented by its president, or some one
authorized to act for her. A cordial in-
vitation is extended to the Bishops and all
brethren interested in the welfare of the
society.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG
						President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS, 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			SARAH JENNE CANNON,
						Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
OUR NEW POSSESSIONS
	It is hard work to settle the question of
the right kind of government for the new
possessions, as they are called, that have
recently been made over to the United
States, even in one’s own mind. Various
propositions are made as to what ought to
be done, and women have had something to
say, although women’s opinion on national
questions is not what is expected by men of
this nation. Nevertheless, women have
opinions as well as intuitions and emotions.
	It is rather confusing to one who would
gladly take a correct view of the situation
to hear so many sides to this important
question argued. The Hon. Whitelaw
Reid, in what is said by good judges to
have been an able and impressive address,
stated at the close of his speech, “My last
word is an appeal to stand firm and stand
altogether for the continental union and for
a firm civil service for the islands.” Presi-
dent Schurman, the great speaker at the
same meeting in Boston, closed his address
by saying, “We must have a permanent
civil service in the Phillipines. It must be
well paid, and the best men in the country
must go there, and they must be animated,
not by the love of money, although they
must have good salaries, but by devotion to
the public service, by considerations for the
welfare of the Filipinos themselves. With
such a class of men going there, retained 
permanently, and promoted in virtue of
merit, I have no doubt whatsoever of the

[Column 2]
successful solution of the problem which
has devolved upon us in the Orient.”
	One editor who has studied this question
carefully, and who lives in a city famous
for its public advantages, comments thus:
“Unfortunately, such a civil service we
have not, never have had and are not likely
to have. He must be indeed an optimist,
devoid of practical observation and exper-
ience, who will hope for good government
by officials appointed by any political party
in power at Washington. The result will
be a carpet-bag government followed by a
social and political collapse. We can
adopt the second alternative and make
these people citizens, not of the United
States, but of Hawaii, Porto Rico of Luzon
and the other islands organized as self-
governing territories.”
	In short, this writer would give these
people a similar form of government to New
Mexico, and of that which formerly was
provided for Utah. Governor and judges
appointed by the President of the United
States; he reasons that this system with free
commercial intercourse with the United
States inside the American custom house,
the free interchange of temperate and torrid
products would bind the new possessions to
us and to each other in a friendly and
mutually profitable unity, material and
moral. This may be good as far as it goes,
but these people must have something else
besides commerce they must have material
and practical civilizing influences and meth-
ods they must have teaching and training
along many lines to make them truly citi-
zens at all. In short, women as well as
men must help with this great undertaking.
The women of those countries will help
wonderfully by their influence when they
have been reached by the women of the
United States, who can be sent out by the
President and Congress to aid in these at-
tempts to rescue from barbarism these
savage nations and tribes.
	The National Council of Women of the
United States appealed to President Mc-
Kinley in February, 1899, that there be a
commission of women to co-operate with
the men who might probably be sent to
these islands when the war was over.
	Women should study these great and
grave questions, even though they do not
form an opinion, it is well to know what
others think and become acquainted with
what the leaders of this great free govern-
ment are doing to help on the cause of en-
lightened freedom.

	At present the war between Great
Britain and South Africa is engaging the
attention more than any other subject. We
are too far removed from the scene of action
to be sure of our opinion, but we must
necessarily deplore such a war, seemingly a
war for greed; and, O, how terrible are the
tragedies being enacted! and who shall
answer for the loss of so many innocent
lives? General Joubert is reported dead,
Gen. Conje has been taken prisoner, which
seems even worse than dying for the free-
dom of one’s country. A brave soldier, a
hero, whatever else may be said of him, it
must indeed be hard for such a man to be
shut up in prison. But with these two
great Generals absent, one in death and one
in prison, it naturally seems the Boers
must soon surrender altogether, and yet,
perhaps, there are others as brave and as
skillful, and the war may go on, for if, as
Olive Schriener says, the people of the
Transvaal are determined to fight until

[Column 3]
death, then there will be more battles
fought, and the end is not yet for the great
armies of Great Britain. 
	Would that some peaceable method of
settling hostilities might be negotiated and
the peace which Shakespeare speaks of in
Henry IV, might follow:
	“Peace is in the nature of a conquest:
	For then both parties nobly are subdued,
	And neither party losses.”

And Milton says in one of his sonnets:
	“Peace hath her victories,
	No less renowned than war.”

	The latest dispatches show that the Boers
are not conquered, and although the
British soldiers outnumber them by many
thousands undoubtedly, and are well
equipped, yet Kruger has not lost heart, if
reports can be relied upon. He is reported
as saying to the New York World re-
porter: “My burghers are fighting bravely
and they will continue to do so until Great
Britain asks for peace or withdraws her
soldiers,” and adds:
	“Even as your forefathers fought against
great odds in the Revolutionary war, so
we are struggling, and even as God was
with your people, so is he with us. We
have fought with England before and we
defeated her soldiers, and we will be vic-
torious again.”
	But that will be as the Lord wills, He
holds the destinies of nations in His hands,
and His purposes must be fulfilled. But
for women whose dearest and best must go
forth to battle, surely they will with one
accord long and pray for peace and protest
against the horrors of war that fill the earth
with mourning aud lamentation.


