WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH PIXTON.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
I was born at Chesterfield, in Derbyshire,
England, on the 8th day of February, 1820.
My parents names were John and Charlotte
Cooper. There were five children of us,
four girls and one boy. I was the third a
boy and a girl being older than myself.
We were among the class known as poor
people, and, therefore, I had little or no
schooling and was expected, as soon as I
was able, to add my mite to our support.
My mother died when I was about six
years old, and you all know what home be-
comes without a mother. My father con-
tinued to keep house for about three years,
then the home was broken up and the fam-
ily divided among our relatives. I was
sent to live with my grandmother, until I
was about thirteen years old, then lived
with an aunt for about two years as a
nurse girl. Afterwards I went out to ser-
vice, and continued there until I was nine-
teen years old.
During my service I became acquainted
and kept company with Robert Pixton,
and we were married on May 5th, 1839.
On the 8th of Feburary, 1840, my first
baby, Charlotte, was born, and we got
along very nicely until my husband got
the American fever. He felt disposed to
go to Canada, but being acquainted with
Brother Bateman he finally went with the
Latter-day Saints, and sailed away on the
21st of September, 1841.
This was a sore trial to me, and I lost
my second baby, named George, a week
after my husband left. I now took a situ-
ation as wet nurse in a good family. I re-
ceived seven dollars a week wages and had
a very comfortable home. I stayed there
until October 21, 1843, when I left my
native land to join my husband.
We left in the good ship Champion.
From Liverpool our voyage lasted six
weeks and three days; a pleasant voyage as
compared with some of those days al-
though we were becalmed for four days.
But the end came and we landed at New
Orleans.
The ship company allowed us to live and
stay on board for several days, until the
boat was ready which was to take us up
the river, where we were met by my hus-
band on December 23, 1843, at Island 69,
in the State of Kansas. Brother Pixton
was accompanied by Brother Thomas Sil-
cock, who had also come to meet his wife,
for we had been companions all the way
from Liverpool.
We stayed at Island 69 that winter, and
lived in a blacksmith shop, and in the
spring we started up the Mississippi river
to Nauvoo, where we arrived safe and
sound. We bought a half acre of land of
William Blackhurst, and built a brick room.

[Column 2]
This was our first real estate, and our first
home. Brother Pixton after building our
house worked on the Temple until the
death of the Prophet Joseph, and whilst
here we had our endowments in the Tem-
ple.
We stayed in Nauvoo until the spring of
1846, when Brother Pixton drove some
teams up the country for President Brigham
Young. He came back for me in May
and we moved to Mount Pisgah. At this
time and previously a call had been made
upon Brigham Young for a company of the
brethren to tramp across the continent and
assist in the war in Mexico, and my hus-
band among others volunteered to go. He
left me at Pisgah and started off in what is
known as the Mormon Battalion.
From Pisgah we moved to WinterQuarters
or Florence, as it was afterwards called.
We passed the winter there, we could
scarcely say we lived. I was alone in my
old wagon box with my little girl,
Charlotte. Another baby boy was born to
me there. We called him Helaman,
Brother Brigham Young blessed him. He
died in about five weeks and was put away
with about five hundred more who were
buried at Winter Quarters that season.
I was glad when ihe winter was passed,
and in the month of July, 1847, I went
down to St. Louis to earn sufficient money
for a fit out to take me to Salt Lake I left
my wagon and cattle in the charge of my
friends. I stayed in St. Louis until the
spring of 1848, when I returned to Winter
Quarters and found my yoke of cattle and a
yoke of cows and my wagon all right, and
we started on May 2, 1848, across the
great plains to the Salt Lake valley, driv-
ing my own team. I was in Brigham
Young's hundred, and the wagon in front
of mine was Horace Eldredge's, and the
one behind me was William Van Dyke's.
I could not work my cows very well, so I
let Brother Inman take them to work.
We arrived in Salt Lake City on Septem-
ber 22, 1848, and camped down in the old
fort. One week after our arrival a com-
pany of the Mormon Battalion arrived. My
husband being among the company, we
went out to the warm springs to meet
them, and, after a parting of over two hard
years, we again started life together. We
lived in the fort until we got our city lot,
when Brother Pixton built us one adobe
room and had it finished and moved our 
few things in. In the morning a great
snow fell and it was sixteen weeks before
the ground was clear again.
During our residence in Salt Lake City
we became very well acquainted with
several of the Saints over Jordan, the
Bennions, Harkers and others, and in the
spring of 1859 we moved to Taylorsville,
where we have since resided. My husband
died on the 23rd of November, 1881.
In the spring of 1883 I went to England
to see relatives and friends, and succeeded
in getting a great amount of genealogy,
and have ministered the ordinances for a
great many relatives and friends
Today I have living five children, fifty
grandchildren, thirty-six great grandchil-
dren, and am eighty years old.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE presided at
the reception and dinner of the Authors’
Club, at the Vendome, on January 6, and
the Marion Osgood Ladies’ Orchestra furn-
ished the music.


