MEMORIAL SERVICES AT MOUNT VERNON.
	The one hundredth anniversary of the
death of George Washington, which occured
December 14, 1799, was appropriately re-
membered by the patriotic and Masonic
societies throughout the land.
	At Mount Vernon the scene was impres-
sive as conducted by the Masonic Order.
President McKinley, accompanied by mem-
bers of his Cabinet, attended the exercises
and delivered an address. The procession
that moved up the slope to the mansion
consisted of the Third United States
Cavalry band, Grand Tiler of the Grand
Lodge of Virginia, Master Masons of the
District of Columbia, visiting Master
Masons and Local Lodges.
	President McKinley reviewed the pro-
cession with uncovered head, and, as the
last of it passed the mansion, the presiden-
tial party fell in line at the rear and marched
to the tomb where Washington was first in-
terred, and where Masonic exercises were
held one hundred years ago.
	A dirge by the Marine band was played
and a prayer was offered by the Right Rev.
A. M. Randolph, Bishop of the Episcopal
diocese of Southern Virginia. The Grand
Master Mason of Colorado then delivered an
address.
	At the conclusion of the speech the pro-
cession was formed with the Grand Master
of Virginia, Grand officers and invited
guests, the Grand Masters of the thirteen
original states, together with the three
lodges, and proceeded to the present tomb.
Arriving there, the Grand Master of Vir-
ginia and other Grand officers took a posi-
tion in front of the tomb. The ceremonies
consisted of a prayer by the Grand Chaplain
and a speech by the Grand Master of Vir-
ginia. He asked for responses and greet-
ings from the thirteen original states, and
these were given by their respective Grand
Masters.
	The ritual was read and the Grand
Master deposited evergreen wreaths upon
the tomb. Beginning with sunrise and
ending with sunset a gun was fired every
half hour at Fort Washington. A platoon
of Light Battery, M. Seventh United States
Artillery from Washington Barracks, fired a
salute of twenty-one guns, and at the con-
clusion of the ceremonies at the new tomb
three volleys were fired by a detachment of
Battery A, Fourth United States Artillery,
Fort Hunt, Va. When the President fin-
shed his address twenty-one guns were
fired by the United States steamship, Sylph[-]
While the guns from the war vessel were
booming, the entire assembly sang
"America.”
	The Masons had scarcely departed from
Mount Vernon when the Red Men arrived
at the tomb. They went through the cere-
monies prepared by the committee appointed
at the last session of the Great Council of
the United States, held in Washington
last September. The ceremony was per-
formed in the evening at their home lodges
by 2,200 different tribes throughout the
country.
Spirit of '76.


