		ORANGEVILLE.
    The annual meeting of the Orangeville
Relief Society was held in the Relief Soci-
ety hall, March 17, 1900, at ten o'clock a.
m., and was a testimony meeting, with
President Rhoda E. Robertson presiding.
Singing by the Relief Society choir, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Charles H.
Oliphant. Singing, “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.”
    President R. E. Robertson welcomed the
visitors who were with us. Reading from
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, by Lucinda C.
Curtis.
    Stake President Anna U. Larson ex-
pressed her pleasure in meeting with the
Orangeville Relief Society. Said she had a
testimony to bear; she would never have
left her native land but for the knowledge
that this was the work of God.
    Maria Guymon bore her testimony that
this is the work of the Lord, and Rachel 
Killian felt proud to say that she had al-
ways been a member of the Relief Society.
Felt that mothers had one of the greatest
missions on earth to fill in rearing their
children properly.
    Sister Susanna Jewkes bore her testi-
mony to the goodness of the Lord. Bishop
Jasper Robertson said the spirit of the Lord
was with us, and that thousands were cele-
brating this day. President R. G. Miller
congratulated the sisters on the great oppor-
tunities they enjoy.
    Professor B. Cluff, Jr. bore a strong testi-
mony to the divine mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
    Singing “O, say what is truth.”
    Professor George Cluff spoke of the many
branches of the Relief Society that exist to-
day, and all carrying peace and kindness
with them.
    Singing, “The spirit of God like a fire is


[Column 1]
burning,” Benediction by Bishop Robert-
son.
	Afternoon session, presided over by Sister
Jane Moffatt. Singing, “Now let us re-
joice.” Prayer by Andrew Anderson.
Singing, “O, my Father.” Opening re-
marks by Rhoda E. Robertson. Song by
Jane R. Cox and company. Maria Guyman
gave a sketch of the first Relief Society or-
ganized by President Joseph Smith. Reci-
tation by Mary Jewkes. Remarks by
Bishop Robertson. Song by Emma
Higgs. Essay, by Sarah A. Ful-
mer. Song by Mary A. Sorensen and
company. Music by the Snow Brothers.
Remarks by Stake President Anna U.
Larsen. Solo, Joseph Jewkes. Song,
Grace Oliphant. Remarks, Anna Pulsi-
pher. Hymn, “Weep, weep not for me
Zion.” Passing of picnic. Hymn, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Bene-
di[-]on by A. G. Jewkes.
	RHODA E. ROBERTSON, Pres.
	JANE R. COX, Sec.
KAMAS.
	The sisters of the Kamas Relief Society
met in annual anniversary meeting at the
Kamas meeting house, March 17, 1900,
President Ann Harder presiding. A num-
ber of the brethren were also present.
	The choir sang “An angel from on high.”
Prayer by Sister Laura Pack. Singing,
“Praise to the man.”
	President Ann Harder made a few pleas-
ing opening remarks, adding that as Sister
Ruth Pack was unable to be present on ac-
count of illness, Sister Julia I. Pack would
give an address.
	Sister Pack expressed pleasure at the
privilege of celebrating this anniversary,
spoke of the first organization of which she
was a member, and of the wonderful increase
and progress made, and of the great amount
of good accomplished. Prayed the Lord’s
blessing on all faithful workers in the
cause.
	Presidents May Simpson and Katie
Burbidge sang a duet.
	Sister Emma Pack recited “The Starless
Crown,” after which the minutes of the
first organization were read by Counselor
Margaret A. Woodard, who added a few
interesting remarks on the work of the
society.
	Counselor Willet S. Harder spoke on
Church organization and Relief Society
work and bore a powerful testimony.
	President Ward E. Pack spoke of the
great mission of the sisters and their power
for good, and of the aid rendered in this
Stake in assisting the authorities in accom-
plishing good.
	President Ann Harder gave a short sketch
of work done the past year, and made all
present welcome to the feast.
	An original poem was read by Sister
Edith Lambert, the choir sang “The Spirit
of God,” and closing prayer by W. S.
Harder.
	Tables were then set and all partook of
the good things prepared in rich abundance.
After social chat and reminiscences of other
days, the company separated with the
feeling that another pleasant landmark was
reached in the journey of life.
	EDITH LAMBERT, Ass’t. Sec’y.
RELIEF SOCIETY, PANGUITCH STAKE.
Reorganized.
	Our Relief Society was to be reorganized
at our Stake conference, and then the sis-
ter who was elected for president was absent-

[Column 2]
and we thought best to wait until she ac’
cepted and was set apart with the other
officers, which was done on the 17th of
March, at the close of our celebration, and
was as follows: Elizabeth Delong, presi-
dent; Alice Jane Cameron, Hannah A.
Crosby, counselors; Hannah A. Crosby,
secretary, M. Isabella Henrie, treasurer.
	Our president desired to attend the con-
ference and intended to if possible, and may
have been there, I am not quite sure. We
have had no Stake organization for nearly
two years and no report, except that we
have heard from all the wards and all are
in fairly good condition but one, Cleveland,
which is practically disorganized on account
of so many moving away.
	We feel that Sister Delong will fill the
position satisfactorily to all, and we will be
pleased to receive any instructions the
General Board may have to give.
	HANNAH A. CROSBY. Sec.
FARMINGTON
	It is some time since anything from our
Relief Society appeared in the columns of
the EXPONENT, we therefore thought per-
haps a brief report of our meeting of the
17th of March might be of interest.
	The meeting was held at the Farming-
ton vestry, President Helen Miller presid-
ing. After the Opening exercises the
secretary read an article from the Expo-
nent explaining the object of the meet-
ing, it being to celebrate the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark read the original
minutes of the first meeting held, with
Eliza R. Snow secretary, also gave a
sketch of the Relief Society of Farmington
from its organization, June 3, 1868, until
the present. It was very interesting.
	“O, my Father” was then rendered.
Sister Annie Tanner gave a much appre-
ciated sketch of the life and labors of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow Smith, and concluded
by giving one of her beautiful poems.
	Interesting and instructive remarks were
made, testimonies borne by Stake Counsel-
or Mary S. Clark, President Helen Miller,
Sisters Hannah Miller Julia Steed, Caroline
Bigler, Temperance Moon, et al.
	A very enjoyable time was spent, the
spirit of the Lord was with us in a marked
degree, softening the feelings of all pres-
ent so that many were in tears. After
singing and benediction meeting was ad-
journed.
	MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON,
								Secretary.
TWENTY-FOURTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the entertainment given on
the 17th of March in honor of the first or-
ganization in the Twenty-Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City. We had a very enjoyable
time and a good spirit prevailed.
	We commenced the meeting by singing
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by Brother Wilson. Continued by
singing “How firm a foundation.”
	Sister Mary Howell read the minutes of
the first organization in Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother Gill made a few remarks. Said
he was pleased to be with us and spoke of
Relief Society work.
	Solo, by Lottie Cottom, “Flee as a Bird.”
	Recitation by Brother Cottom, Sen.,
“The Convert’s Dream,” composed when
Brother Cottom was imprisoned for his re-
ligious principles. Remarks by J. W. Roe,
who spoke about the celebration of the or-
ganization.

[Column 3]
	Brother Edwards sang a Welsh song,
“Time Waits for no Man.”
	Duet by Lunie and May Harmen.
	Refreshments were served by Sister Kate
Ames and her aids, and after intermission
the exercises were resumed.
	Song by Sister Johnson. Brother J. W.
Christenson made a few remarks and gave
good instructions to the society.
	President Nightingale thanked the sisters
for all they had done expressed her good
wishes and prayed God to bless us one and
all.
	Meeting closed by singing “Guide, us, O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Minutes of the
meeting were read and accepted.” Bene-
diction by Brother Backman.
