						RUTH M. FOX.


[Column 1]
JUSTICE AND JUDGMENT.
	We find many in our travels who seem
surprised at the little justice that the out-
side world is willing to give to the Latter-
day Saints. Perhaps it is because they have 
been born under the covenant, consequent-
ly have not experienced what prejudice is
often imbibed through hearing false re-
ports. They have not experienced the
changes resulting from the purgation some
have to undergo before they become
grounded in the Gospel.
	Our missionaries who meet with people of
different nationalities and creeds, under-
stand, however, something about the in-
correct principles many are cradled in; people
who travel little and only meet with one
class of people do not always have the
charity and judgment of those who learn
much of human nature.
	My father was a man who had been a
Captain of a merchant ship, a man who had
mixed with many minds and many men;
and though he never heard the Gospel, he
always accepted a truth, even though it
sometimes cost him a great sacrifice to do
so. He always seemed hurt when any one
spoke sneeringly of Jesus, because of His
nationality. He also tried to impress his
children that if they wished to judge any
one, they should place themselves in the
position of the individual they were trying
to judge. Then if they understood his
temperament, and knew something of the
principles he had been taught, also if they
could find out his motives for doing those
certain things and knew of his circutu- 
stances, perhaps they might be capable of
judging.
	Isaiah tells in the 11th chapter that there
shall come forth out of the stem of Jesse,
one who shall not judge after the sight of
his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing
of his ears. If we could follow his example
how slow we should be to judge our neigh-
bors.
	Before judging we should ask ourselves,
these questions: What were their motives?

[Column 2]
What prompted them? Was it Satan who
had set a trap to try to make a man an
offender for a word? Then another ques-
tion would follow: Will you silently and
lovingly deliver that one if he has erred in
spirit or in understanding? Above all, let
us remember the Mormon creed, “Mind
your own business.”
	What a pity we are not as wise as Solo-
mon! Yet Solomon did not always act
wisely, but fell when he had departed
from the path of righteousness. How neces-
sary our words should be flavored with the
spirit of love. What slander would be
saved; unity would take the place of divi-
sion; our homes would be little heavens;
our fences so secure that no intruding
spirits could possibly enter, and evil spirits
would be bound to remain outside—nothing
could harm or hurt in Zion.
	Do we not look for this glorious time ot
come soon, when we are rejoicing and
praising God for the restoration of the Gos-
pel? On the other hand, when we are
weak, when clouds hover over us, and
when our Heavenly Father seems to with-
draw His spirit from us, what blunders we
make, how helpless we are. We wonder at
our carelessness and that we get ashamed
of ourselves. But if we always felt strong
and charitable, we would always be in our
watch-tower. We might have a little sym-
pathy for our neighbor, who has never
walked in the light.
	If we never had felt the pangs of poverty
could we feel, for the poor and destitute?
If we had been always healthy, we could
not advise the sick or speak a cheering
word to the sad. If we had never erred in
judgment, we could not warn our children
of the pitfalls that surround them. We
could feel no need of being watchful and
prayerful in these perilous times, but that
we know the enemy is busy trying to over-
come his people- We know he is sending
extra forces, for his time is short, and what
he does must be done quickly. We know
his dividing spirits are recruting, and find-
ing and spying out our weak places. We
need to stand shoulder to shoulder and
keep sacred the faults of our brothers and
sisters, as we would wish they would do
with us.
						A. L. M.


