RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this City, Thursday, April 5,
1900, President Zina D. H. Young presid-
ing. Her counselors, Jane S. Richards,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah Jane Can-
non, the secretary, E. B. Wells, and Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, and many presidents from
other Stakes were on the stand.
	Meeting opened at 10 a. m. by singing
“Zion stands with hills surrounded.”
Prayer by B[-]other Redding Allred. Singing
duet by Sister Christine Anderson and her
daughter, Miss Judith Anderson, "Whisper-
ing Hope,” very beautfully rendered, Miss
Lizzie Thomas accompanying them upon
the organ.
	Secretary called the roll, response from
thirty-eignt Stakes, eighteen presidents, ten
secretaries, ten by other representatives.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted.
	President Young gave an interesting ad-
dress of welcome and greeting to the sisters
assembled, and asked the Lord to bless us
all and renew our spirit and strength and
comfort us with His Holy Spirit.
	President Jane S. Richards would much
rather have heard from “Aunt Zina,” and
felt some others would, but wished to be
obedient at all times, and as she had been
called hoped she might be able to say a few
words of encouragement. “The Lord said
He would have a tried people and we want
to be His. Sometimes we would rather
choose our trials, but it is not given us to
do. If all had come to this meeting who
ought to have, there would not be a vacant
seat, that is how it should be. The society
was organized for the care of the sick and I


have never stayed at home when I felt that
I could go. Sister Zina wants the presi-
dents to visit their Stakes once a year at
least, if not more. We are so glad when
we can see the sisters. If we exercise faith
I believe Sister Zina will be able to visit the
sisters in their conferences.” Sister Rich-
ards urged the sisters to be good to poor
people, for we are all dependent upon the
same Father. If some are wayward, let us
coax them to return if we can. There are
many who need spiritual strength, and
there’s a great promise to the lost sheep,
we will make mistakes, but I don’t think
we should wait until people are dead, or
can’t hear us, let us do this and set a good
example.
	Sister B. W. Smith said: ‘‘My dear sis- 
ters, I greet you with a joyful greeting. I
remember when we first set out to comfort
the sick and afflicted, and to comfort each
other and look after the wayward. I was
asked to speak about the first organization
and how things were then. There were
only a few, nineteen in all, and the society
grew and increased to several hundreds and
a great interest was taken. We want to
teach righteousness in all things and to
comfort each other, and do whatever we
can to help build each other up.” Sister
Smith spoke of observing the 17th of March
and paying the donation. She would like
to see the sisters come into the Temple; how
would we feel when we pass away if we
have not done this. She recommended
reading the life of Joseph Smith in the
society, knew that he was a man of God; she
had been well acquainted with him enough
to know his daily walk and conversation.
Let us enjoy ourselves and never be weary
in well doing.
	President Young spoke upon prayer, com-
fort and wisdom, the great responsibilities 
of mothers, the foundation of all is prayer;
then urged all to pay their tithing and do-
nations, and encourage those who are not
interested to attend our meetings. It the
hill of corn is not fed by the elements it will
not grow. Let us teach the children indus-
try, how to save and economize. Referred
to Sister Eliza’s words about idleness and
uncleanliness; said she knew Sister Eliza
almost seventy years ago, and was thankful
for her being upon the earth; that we
knew her and had her with us. Loved to
look upon the faces of the Saints, they had
come from under the water, had received
the Holy Ghost. Let us do our duty and
our labors will be crowned with success
when the last day comes.
	Sister Horne: “When we hear the word
of the Lord given to us, we should observe
it. We’ve had many good things this
morning, and we should digest them when
we are performing our labors. We know
the Lord is as good as his promises, and we
should follow the teachings of the Savior
and acknowledge His hand in all things;
by this means we are proven. We are
called to help accomplish the work of God.
Solomon in summing up said: Fear God
and keep His commandments was the
whole duty of man. We have had so much
instruction from Sister Eliza and Mother
Whitney in the past, we should remember
them in love, and we expect to meet them
when we go behind the veil. There are
many insinuating spirits abroad, and we do
not want to be overcome by them. If we
walk humbly the Lord will arrest calamity
and when diseases come that baffle the
skill of the physician as mentioned in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, don’t be

[Column 2]
fearful, ask the Lord to help you, trust in
Him, and may the Lord help us to under-
stand our duty and teach those in our care
to keep the Sabbath day holy and work
righteousness.” Sister Horne closed with
a blessing upon all.
	Sister Mary J. West Counselor in the
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, gave an excel-
lent report of the Stake. Said they had
two Relief Society halls, they gave the first
one they built freely for the Academy and
then put up a beautiful little brick build-
ing. The spirit of the Lord is with the
Saints there, and they are comforted and
blest. Sister West offered a beautiful tri-
bute to the memory of Sister Lucy H.
Flake, who had recently passed away. She
had been president of the Primary Associa-
tions of the Stake. She was one of the
most useful women, a true Saint of God.
Sister West bore a strong testimony to the
divine mission of Joseph Smith and prayed
that the aged mothers in Israel might live
many years to teach the daughters of Zion.
	Sister Zina Y. Card, president of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, reported the
Relief Society of that Stake of Zion which
she designated as the baby Stake. The
society have one house which they pur-
chased. The 17th of March this year was
observed throughout the Stake in Cardston.
The society gave a banquet to the old
folks, all over fifty were invited. She
realized it was easier for the Saints to live
their religion in new settlements where all
were equal. Sister Card spoke strongly
for the support of the Exponent and for
the central building in this city, and alto-
gether her speech was replete with a living
testimony of the truth.
	President Elizabeth Fox, of Oneida
Stake, said she had not been able to attend
conference for a year and a half. Rejoiced
in being present and seeing the sisters who
had labored in the Relief Society ever since
the first organization. Referred to the
branch of the society in Oregon as belong-
ing to their Stake. Had tried to encourage
the sisters in taking the sacrament, knew it
was a blessing to the sisters in the society.
Prayed that we might increase in wisdom
and understanding, and train our youth in
the principles of the Gospel, teach them to
observe the law of tithing while they are
young, be charitable to the wayward and
they will turn back. Asked every blessing
upon the Saints in the name of Jesus, amen.
	Sister L. M. Hart, counselor in Bear
Lake Stake, made an excellent report. The
president, Sister Lindsay, was ill and could
not attend the conference. She referred to
the visit of Sister Jane S. Richards and
Apostle F. D. Richards to their Stake dur-
ing the last summer and how much they
appreciated the instructions particularly
upon tithing. In that Stake the society
was helping to build the Stake Academy.
On the 25th of December they made a party
for its benefit and it was the party of the
season; they realized $240.00. She felt a
school for the children of our own faith
would be the best influence for the boys
and girls to train them in the Gospel
principles. They were very much lacking
skilfull help in nursing. Physicians were
reaping a harvest. Referred to the teach-
ings of President Woodruff and felt to bear
them in mind.
	Congregation standing sang, “O, ye
mountains high’’ and benediction was offered
by President Jesse M. Smith.
E. B. Wells, Secretary.


