OBITUARY.
LUCY H. FLAKE.
	Died, in Snowflake, Arizona, January 27, 1900, 
Sister Lucy H. Flake, wife of William J. Flake, 
one of the Bishopric of this ward. 
	Sister Lucy Hannah White Flake was the eldest 
child of Samuel and Mary Burton White. She 
was born in Knox Co., Ill., August 23, 1842. Her
parents came to Utah in 1850, and were among 
the first settlers of Lehi, moving from there to
Cedar in 1853. She was married to William
J. Flake, December 30, 1858, by Apostle Amasa
M. Lyman, in Cedar City, Utah. She was the 
mother of thirteen children, nine sons and four
daughters, six of whom, five sons and one
daughter, have preceded her to the other side. 
	With her husband and family she left their home
in Beaver, where they had lived nearly eighteen 
years, and came to Arizona in the fall of 1877. 
They lived for awhile on the Little Colorado river, 
but not being able to make a dam stay in the 
river, Brother Flake bought the home and ranch
of Mr. James Stinson, on Silver creek, in July, 
1878, from which the town of Snowflake was made, 
which has been the home of Sister Flake ever since. 
	She was sustained as first counselor in our Relief
Society to Mary J. West, president, when it was
first organized, July 12, 1880. She acted in that
capacity for fifteen and a half years, when she
was sustained as Stake president of the Primary
Association in November, 1895, in which position
she gained the love and respect of the children as
well as the parents, by making regular and fre-
quent visits to the different branches in the Stake.
She has been head teacher in the primary depart-
ment of our Sunday School for five years, where 
she has been very efficient and faithful.
	Sister Flake was taken sick on the 10th of De-
cember, 1899, with an affliction of the bowels, and 
suffered very much for two weeks, then so far re-
covered as to be able to go to the Primary Christ-
mas tree, Old Folks’ Day and other places during 
the holiday week, but on the 2nd of January she
was again taken down, suffering very severely 
and not eating a meal from then till the end came. 
	All that could be done by husband, children and
loving friends was done for her, but all to no pur-
pose. Her son, Osmer D. Flake, is on a mission, 
and is now president of the Mississippi Conference. 
Her second daughter, Jane F. Wood, lives in
Mexico. The other two daughters and three sons
were at her bedside. 
	She has been a faithful Latter-day Saint, a true
wife and mother, a wise counselor and friend, a 
prompt tithe-payer, has kept the Word of Wisdom
and has been a constant subscriber to the
EXPONENT, only missing the year they moved to 
Arizona of subscribing every year. 
	As members of the Relief Society to which she 
was so faithful, we deeply deplore her loss and 
sympathize with her husband and children, and 
pray that we may emulate her honest, upright
course in life, that our reward may be as sure as 
we feel dear Sister Lucy H. Flake’s will be.
			MAY H. LARSON, 
		President Snowflake R. S.


