			MARCH.

	In the great cities of the world there has
been much of late to study and observe.
The path of progress in America has not
been without its impediments and difficul-
ties, but progress, nevertheless, real and
striking, has stood preeminent. The
Phillipine situation has continued to be the
leading topic of serious discussion with no
point of absolute unanimity, except the
fervent hope and prayer that the pending
warfare between the United States troops
and the natives come to a speedy end. The
Secretary of War has just returned from a 
trip through the island of Cuba, the chief
object of which was to observe the present
conditions there—political as well as mili-
tary. The result of his observations, as
summed up in interviews of the Press, is
highly encouraging. No definite action
has been taken on the Porto Rico Bill, the
Republican Senators have been conferring
over the bill for some time, but have been
unable to come to any agreement in the
matter.
	A most important bill was passed in the
House of Representatives, March 13. It
had been passed by the Senate and has now 
become a law, the President having affixed
his signature March 14. This bill is called
"The Gold Standard Currency Bill."
	Telegrams dated March 13, state that 
Bloemfontein was occupied by the British
troops. President Steyn and the fighting
Burghers of the Orange Free State have 
fled into the Transvaal.
	March 14 reports were circulated that the
government at Washington had tendered its
good offices in behalf of peace between
Great Britain and the South African Re-
public. It is feared that the peace confer-
ence will prove a complete failure, as up to the
present time not one of the powers who 
signed the three articles agreed on has
officially ratified the treaty.
	March 17, more commonly known as St.
Patrick's Day, was enthusiastically cele-
brated throughout Great Britain and her 
colonies.
	The Paris Exposition Buildings are
nearing completion and travel thither has 
already commenced.
	The first edition of Rev. Dr. Shelden's
paper, the Topeka Capital, appeared March
13. Rev. Dr. Shelden experimented and
published a paper which has excited much
comment, favorable and otherwise. The
object of this experiment is to publish a
paper on strictly moral and honest lines.
In commenting on this paper other editors
insist that it is not possible to make a per-
manent success of such a paper as the
Shelden edition, for the reason that the pub-
lic buys its newspapers to read the news,
and that the paper which endeavors to
preach instead of giving the news, will
never be popular with the masses.
	An event still fresh in the minds of all, is
the assassination of Senator Goebel, of
Kentucky. The foul crime is still shrouded
in mystery, but the keenest detectives are
at work and a number of men prominent in
official life have been arrested as accessor-
ies to the crime. The investigation is very
sensational.
	A distinguished visitor was in our midst
during March in the person of Hon.
Wm. J. Bryan, and later still Hon. Tom
Fitch, a famous Republican orator.
	On Saturday, March 10, the remains of
Abraham Lincoln were removed from under
the Lincoln monument at Springfield, Ill.,
and placed in a temporary vault.
	Among the notable deaths of the month
was John Ruskin, an English writer, art
critic and reformer, and Abram I. M. Wise,
of the Hebrew Cincinnati College.
	In concluding this brief sketch of the
month's events, let us join in hoping that
ere another month elapses the white flag of
truce will float over the nations of the
world, and that progress and true civiliza-
tion will continue its onward course.
				Aimee C. Schiller.


