NOTES.
	ONE often hears parents deplore the fact
that their children have not the same oppor-
tunities which they had of learning to be
useful in the home. Is it so much, though,
that opportunities for usefulness do not
exist, as that they are not embraced? If
the members of the family, each according
to his ability, took some share of the house-
hold work and responsibility, the mother
could more easily find some hours of free-
dom for herself, the servant question
would be less pressing, and the strain of
meeting expenses of the family diminished.
Then, since it is acknowledged that child-
hood is the best time to learn to do things
with the hands, why ask for manual train-
ing in schools and shut it out of the home?
Can there be any better way of giving men
and women a sense of obligation to society
than by teaching them early that they owe
some service to the family? And, if we
wish to show others that we respect labor
and believe in helping each other, must we
not show it in our example in our house-
holds? We suggest that you consider how,
under modern conditions, children may be
made helpful in the household.—Ex.
	OLIVE SCHREINER, in a letter published
in a late number of Mr. William T.
Stead’s War Against War in South Africa
expresses her acute grief over the present
war. She says: “Oh, the people in Eng-
land have not understood, they have not
understood! There is a time coming, a
terrible awakening when they understand
what they have done. Our gallant, heroic
Transvaals are dying, and brave English
soldiers are falling, and the miserable hordes
of blood-suckers and money-makers are
quietly in hiding, to come out when the
war is over to dig their claws into our
hearts. War is a terrible thing; but when
it is undertaken in the service of wealth,
and to crush freedom, it is hell. If
England could but see in time that
Chamberlain is undermining the found-
ations of the Empire, the true Empire of
which South Africans have dreamed, which
shall be a great confederacy of the nations,
not crushed beneath her heel, but bound to
her by indissoluble ties of love and sym-
pathy! Chamberlain is stabbing the heart
of the British Empire.’’—Ex.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O, Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

