LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	The Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting was 
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, February 17, 1899, Counselor 
Elizabeth J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing. Prayer 
by Sister Julia C. Howe. 
	Remarks were made by Sister Stevenson
on the great blessings we enjoy. She had 
just returned from visiting in the Pocatello 
Stake, and had found a great feeling of 
unity and love. One of the presidents said


[Column 1]
she and her counselors personally visited
the poor.
	Sister Mary Silver said we were greatly
blessed in many ways, that she thought it a
great privilege we had in using the oil in
administering to our children.
	One sister testified that she had been
healed of asthma and also partial paralysis
by the administration of the Elders. Knew
of many others who were also healed.
Hoped she might continue faithful and do
her duty.
	Sister Martha Morris then sang, very
sweetly, “O Jesus, the Giver.”
	President M. I. Horne was thankful that
we could meet and testify of the power of
healing. All were not healed in Christ’s
time. A promise is made that if our time
has come we will be taken, if not, we will
live if we believe. Advised the sisters to
use mild herbs and not depend so much on
physicians. She had raised her own chil-
dren through the laying on of hands and
also using herbs. The prophet said the
sisters had the privilege of administering
and no matter who believeth these signs,
such as healing the sick, etc., should follow.
Should we not prize these blessings? Are
we living so that we can claim these bless-
ings? Let us put our trust in our heaven-
ly Father. Spoke of the promises made
through keeping the Word of Wisdom and
of cultivating faith. Do not fear when
diseases are around, we must expect them,
but trust in the Lord and all will be well.
Referred to the late Apostle F. D. Richards,
who was a faithful, humble, true Latter-
day Saint; and also Brother Goddard, who
had done a great work in the Sunday
Schools. The Saints should be cheerful
and happy. Let those who give, give
freely and cheerfully. Believed much good
would be accomplished through the divi-
sion of the Stake, in waking the people up
and making them more energetic. She had
felt at first that it was like a mother losing
her children, had very little trouble in this
Stake, some were energetic, while others
were as if they were in a rut. Today is a
proving day, not of many words, but a day
of warning. Spoke on Sabbath breaking.
One circumstance she had never spoken of
in public, but felt it her duty to do so. At
the time the Gospel was brought to Canada
Sister Walton opened her house for Elder
P. P. Pratt to hold the meetings in. While
the prophet was in Toronto, Canada, visit-
ing the Saints, there was a special meeting
called at Sister Walton’s home present were
John Taylor and wife, John Snyder and
wife, Joseph Horne and wife, Sydney
Rigdon, Thomas B. Marsh, Joseph Field-
ing and his two sisters, Mary and Mercy.
They asked the prophet to relate the visit of
the angel to him. His countenance lit up
and shone by the influence of the Holy
Ghost while he related to us the incidents
connected with the restoration of the Gos-
pel, especially that relating to the visit of
the angels, etc.” “I am the only one now
living of those present on that occasion.”
	Sister Witdsoe felt the influence of the
Spirit. She was thankful to hear Sister
Horne’s testimony. Spoke of keeping the
Word of Wisdom, little by little if we
could not all at once.
	Sister Butterworth thought we if could so
live that our guardian angel would prompt
us what to do in sickness. Another sister
thought the Lord blessed His daughters as
well as His sons. She was the only one o
a large family who had embraced the Gos

[Column 2]
pel. It is not those who do well for a sea-
son, but those who endure to the end.
	Sister Margaret Nightingale had felt
greatly disappointed when she had come to
meeting and found the door shut. Felt to
appreciate these meetings, and wished to be
a true Latter-day Saint. Remarks were
also made by a sister who had been at the
organization of the Granite Stake.
	Sister Howe said her heart went out in
regard to faith, she had been healed by the
administration of her sisters. Our prayers
will be answered if we ask in faith. Said
Sister Lydia D. Alder sent her love to all.
She was filling a good mission, her heal[-]h
is not excellent. She would like all the
sisters to remember her.
	A sister had lost her only child, but had
been blessed and comforted by Apostle
Taylor. Testified that this was the work of
God.
	Sister Martha Morris sang, “Let us pray,
gladly pray.”
	President Horne notified the sisters that
our conference would be held in the 14th
ward Assembly Hall, Saturday, March 3.
Thought it advisable to have the officers of
the Relief Society of this Stake meet here
once a month. The other meeting would
be for the public. Adjourned meeting
for four weeks.
		A. T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


