OBITUARY.
Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Josephine Hansen,
	Sister Josephine Hansen departed this life at her
home in Heber City, Utah, March 16, 1900, aged
fifty-nine years lacking one hour. Her death
happening at this time is a very sad occurrance, as
her husband, Peter Hansen, is laboring in the
missionary field in Denmark. He has been ab-
sent from home almost two years. She has been a .
faithful member of the Heber east ward Relief
Society.
	Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say that in sorrowing
over her removal from our midst, we mourn for 
one that was faithful and worthy of our respect
and love.
	Resolved, That we, the officers, in behalf of the
members of the east ward Relief Society, do
mourn for her, realizing that we have lost a noble
sister and colaborer.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society and a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation.
				SARAH BOND, President.
				EDDA R. JOHNSON, Sec.
SISTER HENRIETTA HOMAR YOUNG.
	Sister Henrietta Homar Young was born in
Reisoer, Norway, April 6, 1842, was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
1853 and was married to H. O. Young in Rockport,
Summit Co., Utah, November 12, 1860, and died
of heart failure, at Parley’s Park, Summit Co.,
Utah, October 27, 1899.
	She was a true Saint, a loving wife and mother
and was the mother of nine children, three of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a loving hus-
band, six children and a wide circle of friends to
mourn her loss. Her children are all married.
	She was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
and a true mother in Israel. Ten minutes before
she died she was engaged in helping with a party
for the first misssonary that had been called from
our ward. She died without a minute’s warning
to those around her. She was greatly beloved by
all who knew her and her death has cast a gloom
over all the ward. She was a kind, true friend in
joy or sorrow, and the only comfort there is in her
loss is knowing she has gone to the presence of our
Father in heaven.					COM.


