INSIDE THE AMERICAN CUSTOM HOUSE.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The present Congress has before it the
greatest question that has come up for
settlement since the close of the Civil War 
or is likely to come before it for centuries.
	The American people are in possesion of
Hawaii, Porto Rico and the Philippines.
What shall we do with them?
	“Give them up,” cry the Anti-Imperial-
sts. “Govern them as subject Colonies,”
cry the imperialists. “Organize them as
Territories,” say those who believe in the


[Column 1]
principles that have made our country
great, prosperous and happy.
	Give to Hawaii, Porto Rico and Luzon,
all of them civilized communities, the same
kind and measure of home rule that we
give to New Mexico. Give to each a local
Legislature, elected by all inhabitants who
will take the oath of allegiance to the
United States, and who possess reasonable
qualifications of age, residence, education
and property, irrespective of race or sex.
Bring each of these communities inside the 
American customhouse, establishing with
it precisely the same reciprocal freedom of
trade as exists between Kansas and Okla-
homa, or between Massachusetts and
Florida. Each of these Territorial Legis-
latures should have the right to enact local
laws, subject to Congressional veto when
necessary; each should elect a delegate to
sit in the House of Representatives without
a vote, like the delegates of New Mexico,
Oklahoma and Arizona; each should have a
Governor and a Judiciary appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of 
the U. S. Senate; each should have un-
restricted commerce with all other parts of
our country.
	This condition of affairs would bring,
alike to ourselves and to these new posses-
sions, an unparallelled agricultural prosper-
ity—a free interchange of temperate and
tropical products, upon a scale hitherto un-
known, at prices mutually beneficial—a
permanent and increasing market for
American manufactures—a continuous field
of investment for American enterprise—
and a commerce such as no nation has ever
before enjoyed. This natural commerce 
between the Temperate and Torrid zones
would create a fleet of American vessels not
dependent upon subsidies for prosperity, 
and would vastly enlarge the traffic upon our
railroads, canals, and lake and river steam-
ers. Our flour, beef, pork, mutton, cattle,
hay, wheat, corn, oats and dairy products,
our cotton and linen goods, machinery,
agricultural tools, hardware, coal, petro-
leum, lumber, building material, and a
thousand articles of comfort, taste and lux-
ury, would be freely exchanged for sugar,
tobacco, tea, coffee, chocolate, rice, india
rubber, mahogany, hemp, jute, spices and
tropical fruits, all of which would be sup-
plied at far lower prices than now prevail.
Compared with these widely, diffused bene-
fits to consumers, the loss of sugar duties,
the opposition of sugar trusts and the out-
cry of a few would-be monopolists of tobac- 
co and oranges are insignificant indeed!
	Moreover, it would secure in our new
possessions permanent loyalty to the flag,
and universal satisfaction based upon gen-
eral propriety and enlightened self-interest.
It would bring about an eventual unity of
language, laws, manners and institutions
with our own. The only way to govern
wisely these now alien communities is to
enable them to govern themselves as Terri-
tories under Congressional supervision.
	This course should be adopted at once by
common consent of both the great political
parties of the country. The Republican
party, having now the control of all de- 
partments of the National government, can
organize the new possessions as self-govern- 
ing Territories and secure thereby contin-
ual National supremacy. If it refuse or
fail to do so, at the behest of hostile trusts
and monopolies, it will give the Demo-
cratic party a National issue upon which 
eventual victory will be as certain as sun-

[Column 2]
rise. The only cure for the present discon-
tent of these new possessions, the only con-
dition upon which “benevolent assimila-
tion” can be effected, is their admission to
our continental system of unrestricted
domestic free trade inside the American
custom-house. “Home rule for our new
Territories” should be the watchword of
1900, and will become the settled principle
of the Twentieth Century.
			HENRY BLACKWELL.
	Dorchester, Jan. 1900.


