MEXICO CONFERENCE NOTES.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Juarez Stake of Zion was held at Colonia,
Juarez, Mexico, October 22, 1899, Presi-
dent Mary B. Eyring presiding.
	There were present of the Priesthood.
Stake President A. W. Ivins, Counselor
Eyring, Patriarchs W. R. R. Stowell and
James H. Martineau, Bishops and many
others.
	The congregation sang “Do what is
right.” Opening prayer by Henry Eyring.
Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.”
	After minutes of the former conference
were read, reports of local branches were
given by officers or delegates who had
traveled in teams over mountain roads to
attend the conference, receive instructions
and report the condition of the society.
	There are seven organizations of the
Relief Society here, each was represented
as doing well, which is very gratifying to
know.
	The storing of grain and other articles
of food, such as beans, dried fruits, etc.,
was one of the leading subjects of the con-
ference. The members are liberal in donat-
ing to the society, consequently the poor
are well cared for.
	The visiting teachers were advised to
talk on some principles of the Gospel, and
not to indulge in idle gossip.
	President Mary B. Eyring was thankful
that all the branches had been reported.
Testified that if we are willing to do our
duties as members of the Relief Society, we
will enjoy the spirit of the Lord. The
Lord has blessed us and increased our com-
forts. If we are true mothers at home, we
are true members of the Relief Society.
	President Henry Eyring urged the sisters
to study the Spanish language, as mission-
aries will be needed to instruct the people
of this land in the near future.
	There were many other speakers and
each gave good instructions. The general
and local officers of the society were unani-
mously sustained in the usual way.
	The officers of this Stake of Zion are
Mary B. Eyring, president; Cynthia J.
Stowell, first counselor; Ellen Lunt, second
counselor; Sarah A. Clayson, secretary. 
