A HYMN.

		O, Saints of the Most High,
			Who dwell on Europe’s shore,
		You’ve heard His servant’s cry,
			Low bow His thrown before. 
Praise give to Jesus King, He comes on earth to reign,
Soon will the tidings ring, give glory to His, name.

		O, keep your covenants true,
			You made beneath the wave,
		A crown He’ll give to you,
			And life beyond the grave.
A name and place in Zion, awaits you over there,
And Judah’s fierce lion, will soon your way prepare

		Proud Babylon will fall,
			Destruction o’er her spread;
		List! to the watchmen’s call,
			Have Saints to Zion fled?
The sun will darkened be the moon be turned to
	blood,
The Saints will Jesus see beyond Atlantic’s flood.

		Rejoice ye Saints of God,
			For mighty is His power,
		Hold fast the Iron Rod,
			’Tis His avenging hour.
No more rejected there past the cold finger’s scorn,
O’er the power of men, hail Church of the First
	Born.
						L. D. ALDER.
	London, Eng., Oct. 1899.


[Column 1]
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.
	As I am not able by sickness to attend
the Relief Society meetings with my sisters,
thought I would employ my pen to write
a short essay.
	Joseph Smith, the prophet of the last
days, was the first to organize a Relief
Society in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. I will here quote a few
lines from his teachings to the Relief
Society.
	He said: “This is a charitable society
and according to your natures, it is natural
for females to have feelings of charity and
benevolence. You are now placed in a
situation in which you can act according to
those sympathies which God has placed in
your bosoms. If you live up to those
principles how great and glorious will be
your reward in the celestial kingdom. If
you live to your privileges, the angels
cannot be restrained from being your
associates. Females, if they are pure and
innocent, can come into the presence of
God: for what is more pleasing to God
than innocence? And I now turn the key
in your behalf in the name of the Lord,
and this Society shall rejoice and knowl-
edge and intelligence shall flow down from
this time henceforth. This is the begin-
ning of better days to the poor and needy,
who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth
blessings on your heads.”
	Find this in the EXPONENT, September
1, 1884.
	Now there are many references made to
the relief of the poor in the Bible. There
is a beautiful illustration of the woman
who used the precious ointment to anoint
the Savior’s body. He said “for His
burial.” His disciples found fault with
the woman, said it was waste, it might
have been sold for so much and given to
the poor. It might have been intended
for that purpose, but she had kept it and
was inspired to pour it upon the head of
Jesus, and He said “she had wrought a
good work on Him,” and wheresoever this
Gospel should be preached in the whole
world, that should be told as a memorial of
her. He also said “For ye have the poor
always with you; but me ye have not al-
ways.”
	Dorcas was one of those women full of

[Column 2]
good works and alms deeds that Peter
brought to life. All the widows stood by
him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them. The things that Dorcas
made were kept to clothe the poor, like our
faithful sisters do and have done. I know
a great many who have spent a lifetime
laboring for the poor in our Relief Society,
faithful from the first organization until
the present.
	There has been a marked degree of im-
provement and progression in our society
from the days of Nauvoo when we heard
the Prophet’s prophetic words. You, my
sisters, the pioneers of the Relief Society,
are the ones that the blessings fall upon;
for at that time all were poor and needy,
and you are they who have been faithful to
your calling and have poured forth bless-
ings upon the heads of the poor, and by so
doing have received their’s in return.
	Who were the beginners? I can count
out of the families of the first members of
the Church, and some few are acting now.
They should berelieved by younger sisters.
And I repeat Joseph Smith’s words:
“Great will be your reward in the celestial
kingdom, and those who have passed be-
hind the veil—yes, the angels—will be
your assistants to help you to follow up 
your lineage to weld the link of parantage
and blood kinship to prepare them for the
millennium reign. Your work has ex-
tended its influence and usefulness to every
Stake and branch of the Church, which be-
speaks the approval of divine authority.
			MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	March 16, 1900.


