A DAY IN CONCORD.

	A day in Concord! What a train of
pleasant recollections this brings before my
mind. The task is indeed a heavy one,
that of picturing to my listeners one of the
most enjoyable days of my recent Eastern
visit, and I feel my inability to give even a
faint idea of this beautfful city.
	The first of May dawned happy for us
and we early completed our arrangements
for our contemplated trip. I, with four of
the other girls, boarded a car early in the
day and soon found ourselves at the station, 
from which point we started on our jour-
ney. The first feature is to procure a
guide book, which is hastily scanned as we
progress on our line of march. When we
reach Concord one of our number secures a
three seated carriage, and with a well in-
formed driver we resign ourselves to the
pleasures of the day.
	As we drive down the quaint streets of
this home-like little town, the many notable
places connected with the struggle for inde-
pendence are pointed out to us. Here is
the old Barrett house, which was ransacked
by the British soldiers in the hope that they
would find stores of gunpowder, which
were supposed to have been concealed by
Colonel Barrett. Near it stands the Lee
farm, where the Howard students held
their sessions while their buildings were
occupied by Revolutionary soldiers. The old
Wright tavern, in which, on the morning
of April 19th, Major Pitcairn boastingly
stated that he would win the day, occupies
a prominent position on Main Street. The
meeting place of the first Provincial Con-
gress is pointed out on a lot adjoining the
Wright tavern, while directly opposite this
place we see the Old Hill burying ground,
where the first settlers lived, and where
also the old powder house stood.
	Shall we now drive to the scene of battle?
As we approach the spot that seems so calm
and peaceful, we gaze on the monuments
placed on either side of the river, and as
we read the words inscribed thereon our
minds are filled with horror at the thought
of the terrible conflict. We seem to see the
brave men rouse at the word of their com-
mander and follow the order of him whose
word is law. As they advance, the boast
of Pitcairn seems about to be realized, for
what can be expected in so unequal a strug-
gle? We see the terrible effect of the
deadly volley which is poured into the
ranks of the minute men; and but a mo-
ment afterward see Major Butterich leap
into the air with the inspiring cry, ‘‘Fire


[Column 1]

fellow soldiers; for God's sake fire." As
they readily respond to his call, two of the
British fall and the remaining number
make a disorderly retreat. Cheer upon
cheer rise to the lips of our brave men and
we see the unsurpassed statue of the
Minute Man facing the spot where success
first crowned resistance to an unyielding
foe. We will follow them in their retreat
to Merriam's Corner, where they face
about and attempt to regain their lost
ground. It is of no avail, however, and
they are driven under fire from the Concord
men to Charlestown.
	We have been living in a military atmos-
phere, but let us now for a few moments
partake of the literary spirit with which
this place abounds. It is this same spot
which for years was the home of many of
our most charming writers. The names of
Emerson, Alcott, Hawthorne and Thoreau
are so closely connected with the place that
we seldom hear the name of Concord with-
out having the image of one of these per-
sons brought before our minds.
	As we drive out Lexington road we
come to a large square building which we
are told was the home of Ralph Waldo
Emerson. It is a beautiful place in a set-
ting of pine trees. This was always a
center for the many bright minds of the
age, and the intellectual influence of the
place seems to carry us into a world be-
yond our own. Some distance farther
down the road we see Orchard House,
which was the home for many years of one
of the dearest women who ever lived—
Louisa M. Alcott. Why is it that every
girl's heart thrills when she hears that
name? Need I ask such a question? Here
we can see her with her sister in their per-
fect enjoyment of home life. Their trials
were, perhaps, as heavy as any of us have
to bear, but how nobly they were overcome!
and afterwards the enjoyment of perfect
happiness followed as the just reward.
	It was here that Mr. Alcott established
his School of Philosophy, and the Hillside
Chapel, standing but a short distance from
the Orchard House, was the annual meet-
ing place. Adjoining the place on the left
we see the Wayside which was owned
and occupied by Nathaniel Hawthorne dur-
ing the latter part of his life. A restful
quiet seems to hang over the place, and we
can easily imagine this wonderful man
sending forth his best efforts from such a
spot.
	The Old Manse occupies a position on
the Concord river, in a lot closely connected
with the old battlefield. It is especially
dear to the hearts of Hawthorne's admir-
ers for his charming set of sketches, which
takes its name from this place.
	Henry Thoreau spent the greater part of
his life in Concord. Here he was given
ample scope for the fulfillment of his de-
sire to spend a great deal of his life in the
study of nature. The result of this with-
drawal from human companionship and de-
votion to nature and wild life is given in
Walden, or Life in the Woods.
	Our trip to Concord would indeed be con-
sidered incomplete without a visit to the
famous Wayside Inn in which so many re-
nowned people have been entertained. A
most pleasing description has been given
by our own dear poet, Longfellow, in his
interesting Tales of a Wayside Inn.
	We will now make our way to Sleepy
Hollow cemetery, where lie the mortal re-
mains of these valued contributors to
American literature. As we ascend the hill

[Column 2]
at the top of which we expect to find the
graves we seek, no sound breaks the still-
ness and our conversation is carried on in
hushed voices for fear of disturbing the
silence which hangs over the spot. In
close succession we pass the graves of
Thoreau, Hawthorne, Mr. and Mrs. Alcott
and their brave "Little Woman," and
Emerson, each grave being marked by a
suitable headstone. We feel, indeed, that
no more fitting locality could be chosen for
a last resting place, after the cares and sor-
rows of life, than this quiet peaceful spot.
						E. H. C.


