R. S. REPORTS. 
MARICOPA STAKE. 
The Maricopa Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at the Mesa Relief Society 
hall, December 21, 1899, with Counselor F. 
Robson presiding. 
Present of the Priesthood were Stake 
Counselor Henry C. Rogers and several 
others of the brethren. 
Meeting opened with the usual exercises. 
Counselor F. E. Robson felt lonely in the 
(Column 2)
absence of our beloved president, who was 
detained on account of the serious illness of 
her daughter. 
Reports from each ward were favorable, 
and those who attended felt well in the
Gospel.
	We had visiting with us Dr. Ellis R. 
Shipp, of Salt Lake City, who is a member 
of the General Board of the Relief Society. 
She expects soon to commence teaching a 
class in obstetrics and nursing in this Stake 
of Zion. 
We had a visit recently from Elder L. J. 
Nuttall, who reorganized the Relief Society 
under parliamentary rules, and many sisters 
joined, all wanted to take part with renewed 
diligence. The instructions were chiefly 
on the law of tithing and the education of 
the sisters in obstetrics, hygiene, the care 
of children and the sacredness of mother-
hood. 
The meeting adjourned with the feeling 
that we never had had a better conference.
			Anna E. FULLER, Sec. 
SAN LUIS. 
The Relief Society conference of the San 
Luis Stake was held in Sanford, Cone-
jos Co., Colorado, on November 10, 1899, 
President Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	The choir sang "Earth with her ten 
thousand flowers." Prayer by Brother 
Harmon Christensen. Singing, "Prayer is 
the soul's sincere desire."
President C. Mortensen said she felt 
grateful for this opportunity. 
The roll of Stake officers and ward mem-
bers was called and minutes of previous 
conference read and approved. The choir 
sang "Come, come ye Saints." 
Sister M. Sellers, of Manassa, Sister P. 
E. Cullers, of Mountain View, Sister M. 
E. Hamil, of Morgan, and Sister M. A. 
Berthelsen, of Sanford, all gave reports of 
their respective wards. The sisters were 
united, had good attendance and held their 
meetings regularly. They all expressed a 
desire to do their duties. 
Brother Molten, from Utah, addressed 
the conference a short time. He said: "If 
we have the spirit of God with us, the 
labors in the Church are a pleasure and a 
living testimony of Jesus Christ, and the 
Gospel is more to be desired than anything 
else." 
Sister Dollie Russell, of Antonito, spoke
a short time upon the duties of sisters in 
the Relief Society. 
Singing, "How firm a foundation." 
	By request a special prayer was offered 
by Brother George Irvin, in behalf of the 
sick and afflicted among us. 
Sister Margaret Haskell, of Manassa, 
said, "I feel to bear my testimony that the 
spirit of God is with us. I believe a spirit 
of reformation is among the Latter-day 
Saints. God has spoken from heaven, and 
His work is established on earth. I would 
ask the sisters, in behalf of the Primary, to 
send their children to meetings, and teach 
them at home." 
Singing, "Now let us rejoice in the day 
of salvation." Benediction by Brother 
Hugh L. Sellers. 
Afternoon session opened by the choir 
singing "We thank Thee, O God, for a 
prophet." Prayer by Bishop W. O. 
Crowther. Singing, "The time is nigh, 
that happy time." 
The General and Stake officers of the 
Relief Society  were  presented and 
sustained, also statistical and financial re-


port for the year 1898 read by the Stake
Secretary.
	Sisters M. Showcroff, of Richfield, and
E. Dunn, of Eastdale, gave reports of their
respective branches; said they were doing
well.
	Counselor Magdaline Funk spoke briefly
on duties of mothers, tithing and storing of
grain
	General President Cornelia Mortensen
gave a report of her visit to the Relief
Society conference in Salt Lake City, in
October. She told us many of the instruc-
tions that had been given, and said there
was a rich flow of the spirit of God. Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young had spoken to the
sisters in tongues.
	Counselor Sarah J. Hostetter addressed
the conference a short time on the subject
of the two powers, good and evil. She
said when we would do good, evil was ever
present. 
	Sister Loretta Petersen bore her testi-
mony to having been healed in the Salt
Lake Temple, by being baptized for her
health.
	Stake Counselor Thomas A. Crowther
encouraged the sisters in their many duties
in the Relief Society, and in training their
children in the ways of truth.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
	The choir sang "High on the mountain
top." Benediction by Brother Lars Mor-
tensen.
Mary F. Crowther, 
Stake Secretary, R.S.

	A reception was given by President
Cornelia Mortensen, December 27, 1899, at
her home. All the Stake presidency of the
Relief Society, also the presidency of San-
ford Ward and Primary Association were
invited guests, together with other noted
friends. A very enjoyable afternoon was
spent visiting and exchanging greetings of
the season.
	A very interesting program of songs,
select readings, recitations, etc., was ren-
dered, after which all partook of the boun-
ities and luxuries of this earth, that had
been prepared in a way to deserve compli-
ment and praise from all present, by our
loving president.
	About 6 p. m. all wended their way
home, with thankful hearts for the privilege
of associating with friends under such
favorable circumstances.
	I hope we may enjoy many more such
gatherings.
M. F. C.


