EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A Happy New Year to all the patrons
and friends of the Woman’s Exponent,
and may it prove a prosperous one to them
and the dear little paper that has been the
champion of the woman’s cause and for
humanity ever since it was established.
May its subscriptions be doubled during
the year Nineteen Hundred.


[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in as early as February 15, so that the
General Secretary may have sufficent time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Seventh Ward Relief Society held
its annual meeting on Thursday, January
4, at 2 p. m. at the commodious home of
Sister Rigby, as it was not convenient to
have the use of the meeting house on that
day, but the rooms were exceedingly com-
fortable. The president, Mary Alice Lam-
bert, stated in her remarks that it was just
thirty-two years that day since the organ-
ization in that ward, and in that time there
had been four presidents. Spoke of the
good work that had been accomplished and
the many ways in which help had been
given. It was a most creditable showing.
It is the intention of the society to have a
house in which to hold meetings, the soci-
ety at present is very prosperous. An ex-
cellent spirit was manifest, and the report
was a very good one. Visitors present
were Sisters E. B. Wells, E. J. Stevenson
and Counselor Annie T. Hyde, of the Stake
Board. President Horne was not able to
come out as the day was inclement. A
sumptuous repast was served at the close of
the meeting, and social conversation, ex-
change of ideas and New Year’s greetings
were general. Such unions help to increase
the interest of the members and are always
pleasant occasions.
	The Woman’s Century Calendar, edited by
Carrie Chapman Catt, and published by N.
A. W. S. A., New York City, is a unique
little book of eighty pages, and contains
much valuable information on the woman
question and excellent photogravures of
some of the prominent women who have
been national leaders along the several
lines of progressive work, Susan B. Anth-
ony, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, Rev.
Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Lucy Stone,
Frances Willard, Julia Ward Howe, Har-
riet Beecher Stowe, Mary A. Livermore,
Clara Barton and Belle A. Mansfield. The
book is well worth its price, 25 cents, and
every woman who wishes to help
forward the movement for equality, should
purchase a copy. The motto on the cover
is most appropriate, “Not new women, but
new conditions.” The calendar is quite hand-
some, and very suitable to send to those
needing such information on the question
of equal rights and progression.
	Sketches of Missionary Life, is the title of
a very neat little book edited by Edwin F.
Parry, who is able to speak understanding-
iy upon this subject from experience in his
own field of labor. Elder Parry was re-
cently associated in the presidency of the
European mission of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, with Rulon S.
Wells as president. The book has one
hundred and forty-four pages and is divided

[Column 2]
into fifteen chapters, treating of the various
phases of an Elder’s life when preaching
the Gospel.—Character of men called, Temp-
tations, Providential aid, First Experiences
in the Field, Miraculous help from the
Lord, Experiences in holding meetings,
Friends raised up—and other equally im-
portant and interesting matters. The book
will undoubtedly be of great service to
young missionaries going forth to the
work of the ministry. The youth of Zion
will find this reading matter of a pure and
elevating character, calculated to inspire
faith in the Latter-day work, evidences of
the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith,
the prophet. The marvelous way in which
men who trusted in the Lord have had their
prayers answered, the manifestations of
healing and the gift of understanding other
languages and being able to make people
of other tongues understand the Gospel by
the spirit thereof, are all clearly set forth in
this little book. Published and for sale at
George Q. Cannon & Sons Co., Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
	The Englishwoman’s Year Book, for 1900,
edited by Emily Janes, secretary to the
National Union of Women Workers of
Great Britain and Ireland, has been re-
ceived at this office and we are very glad to
acknowledge through our columns so wel-
come a gift, and to recommend it to the
public. The book contains three hundred
and fifty pages and is handsomely bound.
It contains information upon woman’s
work, societies and industries along all lines,
educational, industrial, political, literary,
artistic—whether cooperative, social or
individual. To women visiting Great
Britain such a book would be invaluable,
and to those interested in the work of wom-
en everywhere, it is a storehouse of in-
formation. An item or two in the preface
struck home very forcibly: “The collec-
tive conscience of society, ‘God’s secretary,’
as Milton called it, is awake as it never was
before.” At the close the editor concludes
with an Eastern proverb which she says
may serve as a motto for 1900: “By
patience and perseverance, and a bottle of
sweet oil, the snail at length reaches Jeru-
salem.” The editor deserves great credit
for the able manner in which the year book
is arranged, making it also a directory
wherein one can find the names and ad-
dresses of all the noted women who are en-
gaged in any great work or business, as
well as those who stand officially connected
with institutions. Everyone who rejoices
in the advancement of women must feel
proud of Miss Emily Janes’ success in mak-
ing the book such a valuable authority and
so comprehensive upon subjects of such
great importance to the women of the
world.


