A BRIEF SKETCH OF MY LIFE.
	My parents names were William
Cruickshank. and Mary Farquhar Cruick-
shank. I was born in Aberdeen, Scotland,
June 5, 1825, and lived there until my mar-
riage, which event took place December 22,
1843. My husband’s name was William.
Morrison, also a native of Aberdeen.
	In 1844 my husband received an appoint-
ment in Her Majesty’s dockyard, Woolwich,
Kent, England, and thither we went, in-
tending to spend the remainder of our lives
in happiness and comfort. But alas! we
are short-sighted mortals, for our Heavenly-
Father had ordered it otherwise, and dur-
ing the summer of 1847 my husband heard
the principles of the Gospel as taught by
the Latter-day Saints, which aroused in
him a spirit of inquiry to know more about
them. He had been longing for something
and knew not what, but the desire of his
heart was soon to be granted, he being
earnest and prayerful, and his prayers were
answered.
	At this time I went on a visit to my
native home and stayed four months. Dur-
ing my absence my husband had ample
opportunity to investigate for himself, and
soon became convinced of the truth of the
great Latter-day work, which soon proved a
source of joy and satisfaction to him.
	During my stay in Aberdeen my little son
was taken down with scarlet fever and
putrid sore throat; and although everything
was done that medical skill could suggest,
it was all to no purpose, my darling was
taken from me and removed to a higher
sphere and I was left to mourn.
	During this short period my husband had
heard the. Gospel preached by one of the
Elders of the Church, Thomas Bradshaw.
He believed and was baptized for the re-
mission of his sins and received the gift of
the Holy Ghost, which gave him light,
knowledge, wisdom and understanding, and
he was enabled to communicate with me
words of comfort and consolation in the
hour of our severe affliction, this being the
first great sorrow of our lives. But “The
Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.
Blessed be his name.”
	Three weeks after the death of my boy,
the Lord blessed me with another son, and
was soon able to return to my husband
with a joyful heart, and with joy he received
me and preached to me the principles pf the
Gospel of repentance and baptism for the
remission of sins, which I gladly accepted,
making the bonds that united us more firm-
ly riveted than ever. I was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, January 1, 1848, by Elder Thomas
Bradshaw. I felt convinced of the truth
from the first I heard it, and the Lord has
blest me ever since. He enlightened my
mind and gave me a clear conception of the
principles of eternal truth, as they were ad-
vanced to us from time to time through
divine revelation, and I have truly rejoiced
from that day to the present.
	Then the desire to emigrate took posses-
sion of us from the very beginning, and we
were in earnest looking Zionward all the
time.
	In 1850 I had a daughter born, and again
three weeks later death robbed me of my
only boy. But we prayed to our Father in
heaven to give us strength to bear our
trouble, that we might be able to hold up
under every trial.
	In 1852 another daughter was born to us,
and three weeks later my dear sister, who


[Column 1]
with her husband had embraced the Gospel,
died in childbed, leaving her husband and
one son four years old, her babe being
buried with her. It really seemed as if our
troubles were greater than we could endure,
but with prayerful hearts, exercising pati-
ence and perseverance, the Lord helped us
and we were enabled to break up our home
and make a start for Zion. Thus in Sep-
tember, 1854, we bade farewell to father,
mother, brothers and sisters, and all we
held most dear on earth, to travel to Zion in
obedience to the commands of our Father in
heaven, trusting in Him and looking ahead
for a brighter day to come.
	Our passage from Liverpool to New
Orleans took eleven weeks, and from there
to St. Louis two weeks more, making our
journey by water thirteen weeks. When
we got to St. Louis they would not allow
us to land, so we had to be quarantined two
weeks longer, and during that time we took
the cholera, thirty of our company died. I
had it very bad, but was instantly healed 
by the power of God but my two little
girls and my sister’s boy all died in one
week.  Being left childless our trials were
almost more than we could endure, but the
Lord was with us and strengthened us for
the trying ordeals we had to pass through.
When we arrived at St. Louis we found our
means had all been taken to emigrate the
poor.  As we belonged to the independent
company we had to remain there two years
and make a new outfit, which we did, and
were again able to start in April, 1856.
	During our stay in St. Louis I had a
daughter born who lived just ten months;
so, you see, I left three of my own girls and
my nephew laid there to rest to await the
resurrection of the just. Surely I had all
I could endure, but the Lord gave me
strength equal to my day, and I never once
looked back.
	We arrived in Salt Lake City September
22, 1856, just three weeks before the first
handcart company. We got us a home in
Salt Lake City on our arrival, and were
very comfortable. We had a son born
December 9, 1856, all well.
	We remained in Salt Lake City until the
brethren were called to Echo canyon to
meet Johnston’s army, my husband being
among the first. During his absence
Bishop Woolley called from the stand to
find out who would be ready to start south
next morning. I raised my hand, and
started at 9 a. m. with my infant son,
Willie, in my arms. My friends came
around me and begged me not to go farther
than Provo and they would soon come.
They were Sisters Kent, Richards, Caine,
Gates, Colbrook.
	So we said goodbye for a little while and
traveled on till we arrived at Provo, and
the brother who owned the team said,
“Now, Sister Morrison, this is Provo, how
far will you go with us?’’ I said, “How
far do you go?’’ He said, “One hundred
miles farther.” “Then,” said I, “if you
will take me I will go as far as the team
will carry me, for I feel that is where the
Lord wants me to be.’’ So we drove right
to Ephraim. I did not see my husband for
eleven weeks, but it was a joyful greeting
when we did meet.
	We lived in Ephraim from the spring of
1858 till the spring of 1859, my daughter,
Mina being born on March 13. As soon
as I was able we moved to Mt. Pleasant,
where we remained living in the Fort [-]ll
the spring of 1865. February 15 my
daughter, Tina, was born, and one month

[Column 2]
later we moved into our new “Home sweet
Home.”
	In 1865 my husband was called upon to
lead a company of thirty, to make a loca-
tion in Sevier Co., which he did in 1867.
The settlement of people were driven from
their homes by Indians and lost all they
had. By this time my husband's families
were getting numerous, he having three
wives. After a while President Young
called on those Saints to try it again, which
they did, and have remained there ever
since.
	In 1868 Bishop Wm. S. Seeley was called
upon to organize the Relief Society, which
he did and nominated me as president. He
also nominated Sister Madsen first counselor,
Sister Dehlian second counselor. When
called to fill this important position I felt
helpless as a child, and felt it utterly im-
possible for me to fulfill the duties of that
office with propriety. I prayed earnestly
to the Lord to help me and give me wisdom
that I might be able to do my part in a man-
ner that would be pleasing and acceptable
unto Him, also to fill the office with credit
to myself and satisfaction to all concerned.
	It will be thirty-two years on the 11th of
May since our Relief Society was organized,
and I can truthfully say that our sisters
have been all that I could wish or desire.
They have been always ready and on hand
to give aid and assistance when called upon,
to visit the sick or to minister to the wants
and necessities of the poor and those in
distress. I can also say that no one has
ever called for help and been refused. With
regard to the dead of Mt. Pleasant, we sis-
ters have dressed and laid away between
six and seven hundred, and you know that
means work. But the Lord has greatly
blessed our labors and given us strength
equal to the task before us.
	I am proud to be able to say the sisters
are most liberal in contributing to the wants
of the poor, also in responding to any call
made upon them, and do so cheerfully,
without a murmur or complaint. I know
it is due to the prayers of the sisters who
are associated with me, that I have been
enabled to keep on as I have and feel as I
do. Our desire is to live humble and faith-
ful, and strive to do unto others as we
would wish to be done unto.
	That we may be able to run the race and
gain the prize which has been laid up for
the faithful, is my desire and prayer in the
name of Jesus, amen.
