SIXTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.

The second anniversary of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society of this city, held in com-
memoration of the first organization by our
beloved prophet, Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo,
was held in the Sixth Ward Assembly
Hall, March 17, 1900, President West pre-
siding, Counselors Ellen R.Watson and
Alice Butterworth assisting. On the stand
were Bishop Jas. C. Watson, Counselor
Jesse West, Brothers Alexander Burt,
Edwin Rushton, Thomas Green, James
Poulton, Sen., David Fullmer, Thomas
Winter, Carl A. Ek and George Irvine.
Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet,” organist,
Sisters Louisa Giuique and Sister Jane
Poulton. Prayer by Brother Edwin
Rushton.
A short sketch of Relief Society work
was read by the secretary.
President West in her opening remarks
gave a warm welcome to the brethren and
sisters present. Spoke of the good spirit
here today and the surprise awaiting her.
“In looking over this clean hall I cannot
express fully my gratitude to my young
sisters, also Counselor Arnold G. Giuique,
who has been untiring in assisting to reno-
vate this hall, and to all who aided in this
work.” Regretted that her health was
such that she was too feeble to aid in this.
The Lord would bless all who were valiant
in the cause of truth.
Bishop James C. Watson felt honored in
being connected in this noble work with
the sisters of the Relief Society. Approved
of the sketch read by the secretary. “The
financial report speaks well for the good
work the sisters are performing.” In be-
half of the brethren and sisters, returned
thanks to those who had so ably renovated
the hall, the young sisters also to the sis-
ters of this society who have kindly donated
carpet for the stand; and the choir, not for-
getting Brother and Sister Butterworth,
who kindly donated two table spreads and
a mat for the stand. Regretted the absence
of Counselor Arnold G. Giuique, who is
very sick this afternoon, through overwork
in his zeal to have everything done in
order. “In every capacity we find him ever
faithful. May the blessings of our heavenly
Father rest on him and all who are faithful
workers in the church and kingdom of
God. The spirit of peace is here to day,
everything is pleasant to look upon; the
sisters of this society are in harmony with
the Bishopric, they are noble women doing
a grand work assisting the poor and needy.
President West is heart and soul in this
work.” He could more fully understand
now why President Young adopted as an
emblem the hive of Deseret, for we are like
the busy bees, earnest workers. Invoked 
the blessings of the Lord on those present.
Counselor Jesse West expressed his
pleasure in meeting with the brethren and
sisters on this occasion also in hearing the
report, the sisters were engaged in a good
work. Felt to thank the Lord that his lot
was cast in these valleys with the Saints of
God, where we could go up to the house of
the Lord and perform our work for the
dead. Spoke of the magnitude of this
Latter-day work. The sisters of the Relief
Society were blest and would continue to
be blest. Spoke of the first organization of
the Relief Society—the Prophet Joseph
was inspired.
Brother Alexander Burt said it gave him
pleasure to hear the good report of the sis-
ters, and endorsed the sentiments of the
former speakers. In this comfortable hall
we cannot fail to feel the spirit of peace.
Spoke of the advancement the brethren and
sisters who were faithful to the truth were
making. This Latter-day work embraces
all that is good, the Lord chooses the hum-
ble and meek of the earth to do His work.
Counselor Ellen R. Watson expressed
her pleasure in meeting with the brethren
and sisters. Desired to be one with the
Bishopric and sisters of the society. Spoke
of the good work the teachers were doing.
Their’s is one of the most important auxili-
aries in the Relief Society.
Counselor Alice Butterworth desired to
be one with those who were serving the
Lord. Spoke of the hardships and poverty
existing in early days in these valleys,
some forty years ago the change that
wealth has brought about the indifference
many are exhibiting. The Lord had blest
her with means, desired to use it for the
furtherance of the Gospel. Spoke of the
progression the Church had made since
early days.
Brother Winter said, “one year ago today
we met under similar circumstances. Many
inducements had been offered him to leave
Zion, but he never had any desire to do so.
Felt to stay with the people of God where
he could hear the voice of His servants and
carryout their counsel and instruction. The
day is not far distant when we shall thank
our Heavenly Father for His protecting
care over us in these valleys, for tumult
and strife are abroad in the earth.” Closed
his remarks by invoking the blessing of
the Lord on President West and her aids.
Brother James Poulton, Sen., took
pleasure in being present with this Relief
Society, lie was in full fellowship with
them and desired to be known as such.
Felt we were having a feast. Many re-
flections had passed through his mind this
afternoon, and he felt the peaceful influence
prevading here. Spoke of the perfect sys-
tem existing in the Church. The Relief
Society was one of the greatest auxiliaries
in it, the sisters had, and were, doing a
great work. The blessing of the Lord at-
tended their labors. Spoke of the benevo-
lence of Queen Victoria and her daughters,
who were performing charitable acts among
the poor, making clothing and sending
things to those in need. Many of the nobles
of the earth were aiding the poor and
needy, for this they would receive a bless-
ing. The Relief Society were more succsss-
ful. They have obeyed the truth and God
has given them power to minister to the
needy and comfort and bless the sick. Let
us give the honor and glory to our Heaven-
ly Father for these blessings. Felt to ask
God to bless all those who were workers in
this great cause, even the Relief Society.
Prayed for President West, that the Lord
would strengthen her for her integrity to
the Gospel.
Brother David Fullmer was pleased with
the good records the sisters were making,
the aids they are to the Bishopric. Said
God bless them for their noble work.
Spoke of the surprise he felt on entering
this room, the young sisters have done a
good work, we appreciate their labors.
Brother Thomas Green appreciated the
honor in being invited on this occasion, not
alone for the feast prepared, but to hear
the good instruction given here today.
Spoke of the integrity of President West
and her untiring devotion to the sick.
Prayed the Lord to bless her future days
with health and strength.
Brother Carl A. Ek said, “My heart is
full of thanksgiving to my Heavenly
Father for revealing the Gospel in these
last days.” Felt that the sisters of the
Relief Society were blest in their labors.
Spoke of the respect he felt for the aged,
who had grown old in the service of the
Lord; who had borne the burden and heat
of the day. Alluded to the privilege of
baptizing his mother, she being the first
one he baptized after he embraced the Gos-
pel, also had the satisfaction of seeing her
die in full faith of the Gospel.
The Bishop, in his closing remarks, re
referred to those who did not honor their
calling, who were absent from meeting,
neglected their duties and were not, willing
to fill their positions such should be re-
leased. For those who had small children
he had charity, and felt to bless them and
urge them to care for them. But for those
who wilfully neglected their duties he had
no sympathy. The Lord would bless the
sisters who were faithful and make their
burdens light.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benedic-
diction by Brother George Irvine.
Refreshments having been previously
prepared by the sisters, the brethren and
sisters partook of the same. After a social
chat all retired feeling greatly blest and
benefited.

