A BEAUTIFUL LITTLE BOOK.

	A very attractive little book has recently
been issued from the Juvenile Instructor
office, entitled The Latter-day Prophet, a
history of Joseph Smith, written for the
young people. The book is a suitable size
for children, the simplicity of language
used will recommend it to the little folks.
The loftiest subjects are so simplified as to
be understood by the children; at the same
time they retain the thrilling testimony that
always accompanies the truth. It is really
a narrative full of wonderful manifestations
of the power of God, and His dealings with
His obedient children.
	The subjects are arranged in short chap-
ters, which will make it the more helpful
to the young readers, and more adaptable
to Sunday School work.
	As a people we really have much need of
this class of books, and it is gratifying to
know that a man of such splendid attain-
ments as President George Q. Cannon has
made a study of the Prophet's life for the
children of the Saints. Joseph Smith natur-
ally loved little children; this is apparent in
his history, and has been handed down to
us as one of his characteristics by those who
knew him well personally. The children
of the Saints should learn to love Joseph
the Prophet through being acquainted with
his life and character, as well as to rever-
ence him because of his greatness as a servant
of God, prophet, seer and revelator.
The book should be in every home where
there are children, and it should be studied
carefully. There are still a few people
living who knew Joseph Smith personally,
and who testify of his tenderness to every
living creature and his love for flowers and
music, poetry and the drama, also of his
fondness for athletic games. He was un-
doubtedly the most remarkable man of this
century, and the time will come when his
superiority will be widely acknowledged.
	President Cannon has given the story
of  the golden plates in the most happy style,
minutely describing their appearance, also
the golden breastplate and the Urim and
Thummim, the hill in which the stone box
was hidden and the various times the angel
Moroni appeared to him and conversed with
him about them. The terrible persecutions
the Prophet endured because of the power
of evil, and his great courage and fortitude
are forcibly portrayed.
	It is a fine book for the little men and


women, the best, as far as we have seen, of
its kind; but it has the best subject to deal
with and the writer knows how to reach the
hearts of his readers, and partly because in
this instance his own has been thrilled with
the story he relates.
	The book is for sale at George Q. Cannon
& Sons Co. Publishing House, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 50cts.


[Column 1]
