		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
BRAVE WOMEN OF THE REVOLUTION.
	When the bare-footed and thinly clad
soldiers went to the Morris County kitchens
Hannah Carey, wife of David Thompson,
ladled out food from the great iron
pot, saying, “Eat away, men; you are wel-
come because you are fighting for the
country. Eat what you want. It is a
great cause you are engaged in, and we are
willing to share with you what we have as
long as it lasts.”
	The women with homes shared with
those who were without. We cannot im-
agine what they endured. The men fought
well for the country and so did the women.
	Hannah Arnett, of Elizabeth town, N.
J., heard her husband several times say to
some men that he thought of giving up all
effort for independence. She burst into the
room, and, in spite of her husband, rebuked
their weakness and cowardice, saying:
“What greater cause could there be than
that of country? I married a good man, a
true one, a faithful husband and a loyal
Christian gentleman. It needs no divorce
to sever me from a traitor and a coward. If
you take sides with the British you lose
your wife, and I lose my husband and my
home.”
	Hannah Arnett spoke for the patriotic
women of America, and she was as grand
as any of them. They were noble men
and noble women. We are proud of our
ancestors. They are precious relics of a
heroic age, and ought to be garnered up
safely in history.
	“Tempe Wicke owned a handsome
horse which she always rode with skill.
One day as the army was making arrange-
ments to remove, Miss Wicke, mounted on
her favorite horse, started out, wending her
way to Mendam to make a visit. On her
return she was accosted by some soldiers,
who commanded her to dismount. One of
them seized the bridle reins. Perfectly
self-possessed she appeared to submit to her
fate, but not without a vain entreaty not to
take her horse from her. She said she
would be sorry to part from him, but as she
had to, she would ask two favors of them.
One was to return him to her if possible,
and the other was, whether they returned
him or not, to treat him well. The soldiers
were completely thrown off their guard and
the reins were released. The men supposed
she was about to dismount, but nothing
was farther from her mind. No sooner did
the man take his hand off the reins, than
she touched her spirited horse with the
whip. He sped from among them like an
arrow. As she was riding away at full
speed they fired at her, but she was un-
harmed. She urged her horse up a steep
hill. Going around to the kitchen door of
her home, she sprang off and led the horse
into the kitchen, thence into the parlor,
and thence into the spare room, which had
but one window, with a shutter. The
soldiers shortly after came up; searched the

[Column 2]
barn and the woods in vain. She kept her
horse in the spare room for three weeks,
until the last trooper was fairly off. The
courageous and adroit woman afterwards
became the wife of William Tuttle, an
officer in a Jersey brigade. Do you not
think he must have been proud of
her?”
	Mollie Pitcher, the brave and loyal
woman, kindly carried water to the
wounded soldiers until her husband, who
was manning a gun, was killed. She took
his place and assisted in loading and firing
the cannon in the midst of the strife. She
is called the “Heroine of Monmouth.”
After the engagement General Washington
was so much pleased with the gallant con-
duct of the heroine that he gave her a
lieutenant’s commission. She was afterwards
called Captain Mollie, and she deserved her
title. Oh, that all the long-lost and for-
gotten ones could have more written of
them!
