the Constitution of the United States, granting suffrage to women, was introduced in both the House and the Senate of the United States, April 17, 1913. It was christened the Susan B. Anthony Amendment.Six more years elapsed before Congress passed the Amendment. On May 21, 1919, it passed the House of Representatives and on June 4, 1919, it passed the Senate. Before it could become effective, however, it was necessary that it be ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the states. On August 18, the final state to ratify, Tennessee, gave woman suffrage the constitutional majority it needed and victory was won. The amendment which stands now as the law of the land reads as follows: Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. Congress shall have power by appropriate legislation to enforce the provisions of this article. Susan B. Anthony was a faithful and loyal friend to the women of Utah. She kept in touch with them all during her period of leadership, and they worked closely with her in the cause dearest to her heart. She visited Utah on a number of occasions, and from the year 1879 Utah sent delegates regularly to the meetings of the National Suffrage Association, where they took active part in the deliberations. She rejoiced with them when they had the vote from 1870 to 1886; and because of their experience and knowledge and their training in organization work, she solicited their interest and help in her national program. She sympathized with them when they were disfranchised by the Congress of the United States in 1886, and stood by them as a true, faithful friend. She rejoiced again with them when Utah became a state, in April 1895, "4 44 State constitution included a clause giving them full suffrage. She immediately wrote Mrs. Emily S. Richards of Salt Lake City, Chief Organizer for Utah and a member of the National Executive Committee, as follows: Well I am glad you are all awake to the cause out there in Utah. You have the power in your own hands, and if you do not move on to better things political, it will not be the fault of the men alone, you women will be equally responsible with them. You cannot therefore afford to be idle or indifferent to the political action of your city and state. With love to all and yourself the most, Susan B. Anthony. One month later, May 12, Miss Anthony and Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, who were touring the West, visited Utah where they were enthusiastically received. A suffrage conference for two days was held, followed by a reception given in their honor by Mr. And Mrs. F. S. Richards at their beautiful home. Hundreds of people attended, including State officials and military officers from Fort Douglas. Governor Caleb W. West and his staff in full regalia stood in the receiving line with the host and hostess and honored guests. The sincere love of the women of Utah and of the Relief Society for Susan B. Anthony was demonstrated at the time of her death, early in March 1906, when a memorial service was held for her in the Salt Lake City Assembly Hall on Relief Society anniversary day, March 17. To Mothers, Wives, and Sweethearts President Reuben Clark, Jr. Excerpts from an address "