MISCELLANEOUS

	Forget mistakes; organize victory out of mis-
takes.—Robertson.
	Tears are often the telescope by which men
see far into heaven.—H. W. Beecher.
	God always has an angel of help for those
who are willing to do their duty.—Dr. Cuyler.
	Each feels himself happiest where he can use
his special gift, and labor in the calling as-
signed him by God.—K. V. Gerok.
	Reason cannot show itself more reasonable
than to cease reasoning on things that are
above reasoning.—Sir. Philip Sidney.
	To maintain an opinion because it is thine,
and not because it is true, is to maintain thy-
self, not the truth, and so to prefer thyself
above the truth.—Venning.
	In all things throughout the world the men
who look for the crooked will see the crooked,
and the men who look for the straight will see
the straight.
	Resolve to edge in a little reading every day,
if it is but a single sentence; if you gain fifteen
minutes a day, it will make itself felt at the end
of the year.—Horace Mann.
	None are so fond of secrets as those who do
not mean to keep them; such persons covet
secrets, as spendthrifts covet money, for the
purpose of circulation.—Colton.
	A white garment appears worse with soiling
than colored garments do when much soiled; so
a little fault in a good man attracts more at-
tention than great offenses in bad men.
	The most knowing man in the course of the


longest life will always have much to learn;
and the wisest and best, much to improve.—
Shaftesbury.
     Mrs. Fry, in responding to the address of 
welcome at the Texas State W. C. T. U. con-
vention recently, said: "Men and women must
stand side by side in the home, in the church,
in the schools, the colleges, in all trades, pro-
fessions, business and in the government.  The 
cry of help, help! is going up to God in a thou-
sand different pleas.  Oppressed women,
drunkards’ wives, women in houses of illfame,
the poor, starving sewing women, the prisoners,
slaves in vice, are all bound  by the chains of
sin and shame, which can only be broken by
the energy and zeal of true men and honest
women.  We want men and women to stand
side by side for good."  This is sound
doctrine, and seems to have been well received.
The far South is awaking.				Ex.


