[Column 2]

Lingering Lover" Ethel Gertrude Park. One of the
Counselors to Mrs. Mary McAllister, Mrs. Cecelia
Sutherland nee Samuels was honorably released
on account of moving from the ward, and a vote
of thanks given her for faithful performance of
duty; Mrs. Jane Ann Park was appointed
Treasurer in the place of Mrs. Mary Samuels, who
was also honorably released from the position.
Singing and benediction closed the morning exer-
cises. Ample refreshments had been prepared in
the vestry, and the noon hour was profitably spent
in general conversation and the meeting of sisters
and friends socially.
	Afternoon session: opened by singing "Love
At Home," prayer by Elder Sorenson, President
Y. M. Association at Mendon; song, "The
World's Jubilee." Programme third district, Mrs.
Frances Hanson, and Mrs. Mary Ann Birch;
Vivian and Ginevra Hendrickson sang "Bright
Smiling Morning," George and John Home,
dialogue, little Mary Bess, song "I had a little
letter," Vilate Morgan and Maud White, dialogue,
entitled "Jennie and Carrie," Gertie Winder song
"Good Night." Mrs. Cobb presented the name
of Mrs. Anzina Peterson to fill the place made
vacant by the resignation of Mrs. Celestia Hanson
who had moved away. Mrs. Peterson was
unanimously sustained and Mrs. Hanson given
a vote of thanks by the children; Mrs. Cobb
afterwards made some very appropriate remarks
on order, obedience and the result of the same.
Bible questions and answers by Roy White and
Birdie Clyde, Lottie Fowler and Mary Fairborne
dialogue, Pearl Carlisle, song. President Hanson
stated that they had intended to have had a manu-
script paper prepared, but had not succeeded in
getting it into shape, however some of the articles
sent in for it, were read by the secretary, Miss
Belle White. Mrs. Louisa Snedekar sent in her
resignation as secretary, which was accepted and
Miss Anna Bell was sustained to fill the position
of secretary. Brief remarks suitable to the occa-
sion and many instructions were made by Dr. R.
B. Pratt, Pres. E. C.Clawson and E. B. Wells. The
meeting was adjourned with singing and prayer
which was offered by Mrs; Elizabeth Hill, Presi-
dent Relief Society. Morning session minutes
were taken by Miss Nellie Carlisle, afternoon
session Miss Belle White. Both these young wo-
men have been very efficient helps in the Primary
Association. Would there were more of the girls
in Zion would follow this example than there are,
to come forward and render such able assistance
with the little ones in teaching them the ways of
the Lord.


