DEAR SISTER:
	Deeming it of sufficient importance that I
should give a short synopsis of our labors in
the Relief Society on the Sandwich Islands, I
submit the following.—At a general confer-
ence of the Church on these Islands held in
October 1888, I was called to preside over the
Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission with
Sisters S. Y. Gates, Nellie Beesley and Libby
Noall as Counselors, since which time we have
done all we could for our Hawaiian sisters.
	At our late conference held April 6th, a
general conference of all the Societies were
called. I herewith enclose a statistical and
financial report in which it will be seen that
out of the twenty-seven branches now organized
we have seventeen only reported. We have
organized three more branches during the last
six months.
	Representatives from the different branches
made favorable reports showing that most of
the members were active and attended their
meetings. Were it possible for us to visit all the
branches on the Islands we could do much good.
We, have been enabled to visit the sisters
on this Island, with good results; teaching
them habits of industry; many of whom show
an aptitude, and are quite expert in braiding
and making hats, piecing, quilting, knitting
and crocheting, in which they take more in-
terest than in housekeeping, though we have
shown them, inasmuch as circumstances would
permit, the necessity of this. Heretofore the
husbands and fathers have done the most of
the cooking, but foreign customs, habits, and
industries, leave no time for the exercise of
former vocations; hence the necessity of Ha-
waiian women learning kitchen duties. I have
been very much pleased and gratified
with the success that has attended our labors;
there is a marked improvement both spiritual
and temporal among our Hawaiian sisters.
	The return of Sisters Gates, Beesley and
Noall, whom you will likely have the
privilege of meeting will give you more partic-
ulars concerning the progress of the good work
than it will be possible for me to write. With
kind regards I subscribe myself,
		Your Sister in the cause of Zion,
						LUCY M. KING.
	Laie, Sandwich Islands, April 16th, 1889.


