THIS AND THAT.

	The Old Folks' Excursion comes off on the 26
inst. It will be the 15th anniversary, and the
destination is Lester Park, Ogden City.
	We acknowledge with thanks and a full appreci-
ation of the delicate expressions of affection,
floral tributes from Mrs. Jane Cowan, Misses Kate
and E. Wells, and Mrs. A. W. Cannon; also a
very handsome and fragrant bouquet of wild
flowers from Miss Caroline and Master Volney
Crocheron.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, of this City, accom-
panied by her daughter, has gone East to the
State of New York to attend a centennial celebra-
tion of the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., the
place of her nativity. Mrs. Kimball was speci-
ally invited to represent her father's family, the
Grangers, at the public demonstration which is to
be made on the occasion, June 19, 1889.
	The name of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
was changed to Latter-day Saints' College, by
formal action of the Board of Directors, on the
15th of May, 1889. We have received the Annual
Circular issued for the Fourth Academic Year,
1889-1890, and shall notice more fully at another
time. We have observed in glancing through it,
several changes, which mark the progress of this
excellent school, and feel confident of the success
of a college where religious teaching is at the
foundation of educational work.
	Clara Barton, President of the Red Cross, is
doing effective work on a large scale at the scene
of suffering in Johnstown. This remarkable
woman is a public benefactor, and deserves ever-
lasting gratitude for her efficient labors among the
sick and afflicted, the wounded and dying, not
only on the battle-field, but in times of peace,
when dire calamities of any kind have befallen a
place or people; whenever and wherever suffer-
ing humanity has called for gentle woman's minis-
trations, nothing daunted, she has gone like an
angel 'mid scenes' the most appalling. Her name
is written in deeds of valor and charity, far more
imperishable, than if in letters of gold, for they
are engraven unmistakably upon human hearts.
	The Alumni Association of the Deseret Uni-
versity, had a most delightful meeting and ball at
the University Building in this City, on Wedens-
day evening June 12. The programme was a
most excellent one, being a pleasing variety of
exercises, songs, music. speeches, toasts, etc.
The banquet prepared for two hundred was in
every way a perfect success; the tables were
artistically decorated with flowers which always
adds greatly to any scene, and to the enjoyment
of the participants.
	The University commencement exercises were

