[column 1]
old and gray, and well befitted its owner; 'twas
a rambling country dwelling, gambrel-roofed,
the eaves projecting wide, and the swallows had
built their nests year  after year in the same
nooks and corners, until they seemed as much
at home as the inmates of the house.  Outside
'twas quaint in design of no particular archi-
tecture, rather rudely built, but withal substan-
tial, and like its master had seen much service;
—the storms of many winters had beaten upon
its walls, and it was weather-worn; inside it
was roomy, home-like and commodious; the
large wide open fire-place bespoke warmth and
comfort, especially when great logs of wood
were piled on the heavy fire-dogs, and blazed
up fitfully, and the tall, thin, tallow candles
burned with a flickering light, and shadows
flitted hither and thither in the long,low rooms
with their sombre walls; then the house had
almost a legendary appearance, and one
susceptible of illusions, might readily have
been induced to believe the frightful stories of
ghosts and witches, that were the regular
winter pastime, on a festive evening in the
country houses.  The furniture of the place
was in harmony with its other appointments,
oaken and dark and heavy made;—tall chests
of drawers with awkward brass knobs, reached
from the floor to the ceiling, filled with the
family linen, that had once been the pride of
the fair young mistress; tables we should call
clumsy now, and chairs and sofas straight-
backed and uncomfortable, corresponded well
with the  other articles of furniture.  In the
long dining room, the principal living room
in the days of the first master and mistress,
when the children were around them, was a tall
majestic clock, inside which one might have
stood upright with perfect ease; the large brass
pendulum swung to and fro as leisurely as
when it counted the merry hours for the happy
family that dwelt within these, now almost
deserted rooms.  The great broad face looked
knowing and wise as much as to say.  I keep
the family chronology.  I have marked the
time of births, of marriages and deaths faith-
fully for four-score years.  I guard the honor
of the house, and know its history.  Many
times in years after when the long, low room
was deserted, and a neighbor would drop in,
the old clock was like a familiar friend, and its
tick, tick in the quiet of the old house seemed
to break the deep silence that rested upon it.
				11

Deserted halls where all was once so bright,
	Now so neglected, shadowy and gray;
For she, who made the home so full of light,
	Can come no more, to chase the gloom away.

	After six and twenty years of uninterrupted
domestic felicity, the master was left alone with
his five boys.  No daughter had been born to
them to bear the semblance of the beautiful
wife and mother, though the father had
ardently longed for one, to be the light and
comfort of his home.  Many were the plans
the happy couple laid, in that past which was
gone forever now,—to train and educate a little
girl, should the fates be so propitious as to
grant them this desire.  The husband thus bereft
of his treasure yearned more than ever for wo-
manly companionship.  His mother had been
dead many years, he had never known what it
was to have a sister; and now his wife the be-
loved of his heart, the companion of his youth,
and the pride of his home was gone forever.
He could not be reconciled to his loss, and he
gave himself up to sad and gloomy reveries that
made him old before his time, and totally un-
fitted him for the duties devolving upon him as
the father and only parent to his family of
boys.  The boys grew to manhood and entered
upon the busy, practical pursuits of life; and
one by one left the paternal roof to which the
father clung so tenaciously.  The orchard and

