A PROGRESSION BACKWARD.

	Ward McAllister, the famous field-marshal
at the Four Hundred, though he succeeded in
bringing himself and his following into merited
disfavor by his and their social flunkeyism be-
fore the centennial inauguration ceremonies, de-
serves more than passing commendation for his
blunt use of the terms “men” and “women.”


If the country will but agree to follow his
fashion in this sensible particular, there are few
who now despise his haughty exclusiveness
who will not be tempted to grant him generous
pardon for all past offences against the popular
democratic idea of what American society
should be. When he spoke of one of his antago-
nists as "that man Fish” he gave, unconscious-
ly or not, a striking example of the strength
and vigor of the English language; and when
he spoke of the “men and women” chosen for
the centennial quadrille, he jumped at once into
a popularity which was perhaps as unexpected
as it was unfamiliar to him.
	We are reminded every day of the effeminate
deterioration of the mother tongue in the use
of less healthy words for the plain old lan-
age which has beoome so dear. It is now
“gentleman” for every human being of the
male persusasion; “lady” for every daughter
of Eve beyond the age of pinafores; and these
two in all sorts of absurd combinations, which
only add useless syllables in order to make the
terms more ridiculous. If an editor and his
wife take a little trip his brother journalists
say he is accompanied by “his lady.” If the
editor happens to be a woman and she is es-
corted by her less prominent husband, the
notice would probably read, “Mrs. So-and-So,
and her gentleman.” If the papers are to
be believed, men have ceased to travel with
their wives now-a-days; in fact, men have
almost ceased to exist. We have a race of
gentlemen and ladies, some of whom perch on
the highest roost of society, while some clean
the boots and scrub the steps.
	If there is any virtue in anniversaries, we
ought to be reminded in this centennial year,
that pure old Anglo-Saxon was good enough
for the patriots and is still better than any
counterfeit. A step back in this respect would
be a step forward. If there is any word in
our language nobler than “man” it is “woman;”
and nothing can be better than these two unless
it is “husband" and “wife.”—Standard.


