DEAR EXPONENT.
	And so you were seventeen years old the I, of
June, 1889? How very happy an idea that it is
also President Brigham Young's birthday. In
calling you into existence upon that honored day,
you are imperishably connected with his illustri-
ous history, as well as indebted to him for your
very being. Have you not cause for gratitude?
You, who even yet in your "teens" speak to all
the world for the maidens, matrons, and even the
Priesthood, in behalf of our liberty and our re-
ligion?
	What a traveler you have been. "The isles
wait for thee," the valleys listen and the moun-
tains look afar off, waiting for thy coming. Into
how many stranger hearts hast thou borne the
tidings of truth for thy people, and the sweet in-
fluence of the Gospel; thou faithful missionary
for the Father.
	In this brief career of seventeen years, how
much has been accomplished in His service only
He can count. Great and kind was the heart and
prophetic the mind of Brigham Young when he
called and named thee his literary daughter;
when he gave thee thy mission as bearer and
messenger of truth; as historian of woman's
progress among God's people. Forever may thy
banner lead though many others should rise amid
the hosts of thy people. Long years hast thou
been the solitary guest and comforter, the one
woman's paper; and may they never forget thee,
their first ove; never lay aside their first duty to
thee and thy founder.
	May they who bear his name, and they who
love to remember his counsel, unite their names


upon thy pages with their rarest thoughts, as they
would bring their gifts to deck beauty's form.
Let thy columns be the repository the archives of
treasured thoughts, and records wrought from the
minds and the hearts of the daughters of thy peo-
ple.  Soon, no longer maiden, but woman, dear
EXPONENT, may thy presence be welcomed in
ten thousand homes, telling what Zion's daughters
have done, the magnitude of their enlarging
fields of usefulness, and their still grander hopes.
When you are eighteen, dear EXPONENT, no
take time—when you are twenty, perhaps, may be
you will add a fold or two to your skirts, and em-
bellish them with journalistic attractions—for, are
you not, by birthright entitled and endowed to
wear as many honors as any other eldest born
daughter of fame?

	At this point in my paying my respects to the
EXPONENT, the other guests could not restrain
their impatience at my appropriating so much
valuable time, and I felt my skirt getting pulled
by some one, while others crowded past me with
something in their hands, and a general murmur
of pleasant voices rising higher and higher,
abashed me into silence, and while the EXPO-
NENT peacefully smiled acknowledgement of my
humble appreciation and good wishes, which was
all I had to offer, (as is generally the case on
every other note-worthy occasion,) she was
obliged to give directions to some one to summon
several persons to make out receipts, and in less
than a minute, there was such a fluttering of
papers, exchanging hands, and such a clinking of
falling coins, that I sank back in my chair, over-
come with my insignificance, when the springs
seemed to sink so entirely away, that I sprang up
in alarm. Gracious! was the EXPONENT'S birth-
day reception all a dream? Well, then, as sure
as I'm saying this to you, that dream means
something; "its the forerunner of a good sign,"
as a dear old lady I once knew used to say.  And
I believe this same dream was brought about by
my reflections on the reduction in the price of
the EXPONENT. I wouldn't have done it. A
Mormon Woman's paper is worth two dollars,
more than some other papers are worth one dollar.
