[Column 2]

And tell of the great exaltation
	They may by obedience reach.

We tell them, "give heed to our warning;
	The Gospel accept and obey;
That you may arise in the morning,
	Of the first resurrection day."

We teach them true faith in the Father,
	Creator of all that we see;
And also in Jesus our Savior,
	Who says, "Believe also in me."

"For through Him you'll gain life eternal,
	If you but obey His command;
Partake of the blessings supernal,
	In reigning with His righteous band."

That they with an honest desire,
	Should turn from transgression and sin;
And make their aim brighter and higher,
	Determined life's battle to win.

Be born of the water and spirit,
	Receive a remission of sins;
Obey the Still Voice when you hear it,
	Instructing your spirit within.

And when you have laid the foundation, 
	Go on to perfection's bright shore.
That you may enjoy the relation
	Of Christ with His Saints evermore.

When "peace on the earth" will be sounded'
	"Good will to all men" be the cry,
Your joy will be surely unbounded,
	Singing praise to Jehovah on high.

Above, is the message we're preaching,
	'Tis Jesus, and Him crucified;
His goodness and mercy we're teaching,
	How, for us, He suffered and died.

In leaving our home for this object,
	To travel without purse or scrip,
The Elders are, oftentimes subject
	To insults, the scourge and the whip.

Vile jeerings, and vituperation,
	Mob violence, scoffing and scorn;
A flood of misrepresentation,
	A child of gross ignorance born.

They drive us from city to city,
	Yet, we must forgive and forbear;
They yet will come pleading for pity,
	In tears of remorse and dispair.

Remember, the word that is spoken,
	The servant's not greater than Lord,
If you are reviled, 'tis a token
	That you are obeying his word.

Rejoice ye in your persecution!
	This, Saints, shall your heritage be;
For, this, did they unto the Prophets,
	And thus will they do unto thee.

Don't think all is stormy and cloudy,
	That nothing but troubles appear;
We often meet those who are friendly,
	Who's kindnesses comfort and cheer.

For, oft, as a sweet fragrant flower,
	Is found by a rank noxious weed,
So some, will do all in their power
	Providing the things that we need.

Who giveth a cup of cold water,
	In no wise shall lose his reward.
Who gives us food, raiment and shelter,
	Shall surely be blessed of the Lord:

At last, we will turn our attention
	To brothers and Sunday School friends;
(But first we just thought we would mention
	Our labors, and what they attend.)

To give a complete explanation,
	Of scenes and experiences too,
I'll wait for the realization
	Of once again meeting with you.

Indulging in musing reflections,
	Familiar home duties oft pass;
And foremost of these retrospections,
	Are scenes of the Sunday School class.

When just before ten Sunday morning—
	Return of another Lord’s day—

[Column 3]

The Sabbath School children are formiug
	In classes to learn, sing and pray.

It seems even now, we hear blending
	The voices of Saints singing praise;
To Father in heaven, for sending
	The Gospel, in these latter days.

And when you are humbly addressing
	The throne of our Father to-day,
Dear friends, you must ask for a blessing
	For those who are far, far away.

We earnestly pray and petition,
	The Lord to direct and sustain
The Saints in their trying position,
	Till Christ comes in glory to reign.		S.


