		TO THE W. S. A. IN OGDEN.

	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—I
am little accustomed to public speaking, es-
pecially on the subject of Politics. Our Asso-
ciation in Salt Lake has been organized nearly
four months; I think we have done well, con-
sidering the up-hill work we have had.
	The advancement and education of woman
is one of the main topics of thought and con-
versation among the thinkers of to-day. As
women, we have our family ties, our home
duties, and so many cares upon us, which make
us very weary. It has been said,
	“Man's work, is from sun till sun;
	Woman’s work, is never done.”

	We, most of us, realize this truism; but,
my sisters, though we have all this upon us,
we need not let our thoughts stay with the
menial offices of life.
	While we are in the kitchen, while we ply
the needle, our thoughts can soar as high as
heaven; and we can study upon, and even
think out a subject that engages our interest.
To us as mothers, is entrusted the well-being
(or the opposite,) of immortal souls. Beings
who are destined to live forever. Can this be
successfuly done by the mere care of the
bodily wants ? Must we not think of the
culture and advancement of the mind, the un-
dying intelligence within us? It is not for the
sake of voting only, that so many noble women
such as Mrs. Colby, Mrs. Stanton, Susan B.
Anthony, Mary Livermore and others, have
toiled a life time. 
	A propos of the fact of possessing the
ballot is the power it confers. Women are
naturally pure, noble minded, and would there-
fore vote for men who are also noble minded,
to enforce its laws. In fact, the laws should
be made by good men then they would be good
also. Women should take more inter-
est in the politics of the day. I know that
men say that politics is a dirty puddle in which
pure woman should never dabble. We cer-
tainly could not make the puddle more muddy
ihan it now is; and I believe it would be
cleansed of much of its corruption, by the
wise use woman would make of her influence.
	How shall we become companions to our
husbands and sons if we cannot be interested
in what so interests them?
	A very dear friend of mine, who has long
been a staunch suffragist, told me of an inci-
dent which occured in the life of a friend of
hers. He was a well informed, intelligent, and
highly educated man; his wife was equal to
him in all these attainments. They lived
happily as companions for many years. In
the course of time he was sent as a govern-
ment minister to France; as they had children
he thought it would be best for her to stay
and take care of the family, and of their
beautiful home on the Hudson. The husband,
of course, in the line of his duties, met and
conversed with intelligent men of many nations
upon the topics of the day, government, law,
and all the thousand questions that interest a
man in that position. The loving wife living
quietly in her home on the Hudson, kept him
informed of the welfare of the children, the
home and surroundings. When he returned


at the end of two years, he found that his
thoughts no longer interested his wife; he tried
to tell her of the many experiences he had, the
momentous questions which had been before
him, and the cares which had weighed upon
his mind; but she could not be interested;
her thoughts were narrowed down to the home,
while his encompassed the events of the world.
It grieved him to find that they were no
longer companions; and in speaking of it to
her, he said he had made the mistake of his
life in not taking his wife with him.
	We can take this incident and many that we
see around us, and shape our lives accordingly.
	There is a new era dawning for women all
over the world; and it behooves us, here in
Utah, where we have been disfranchised, to be
up and doing; and be prepared for the better
day, which is not far distant.


