[Column 2]

held in the Salt Lake Theatre on Thursday,
June 13, and were of a most interesting character
of which we hope to give a more full account in
the near future; also the names of the graduates
and other items of the brilliant and successful
affair.
	The three young girls who graduated in the
literary course were, Misses Mary Lewis, May
Preston, and Maud Merrill of Salt Lake City.
Miss Preston, representing the graduates in the
literary course, read an essay "Poetry as a Moral
Influence," which was received with hearty and
richly merited applause and a shower of flowers,
which must have been very delightful. Miss
Bessie Dean sang a ballad "Laddie" in her most
happy manner, and was also enthusiastically
complimented.
	Friday was "Field Day" for the Deseret Uni-
versity at Lake Park, where a most enjoyable
afternoon and evening was spent by the teachers,
graduates and their friends; dancing at the
pavilion was kept up until a late hour.
	To the principal, Dr. J. R. Park must be attri-
buted much of the success of the institution, and
he will surely feel laudably proud of the honors
and gratitude which are rightfully bestowed upon
him and his fellow laborers, who have been so
many years associated in the University's educa-
tional work. Professors Toronto, Kingsbury and
Paul also come in for a goodly share in the
public debt of gratitude.
	In honor of Mrs. Elliot Sandford and her hus-
band, the late Chief Justice of this Territory,
previous to their leaving Utah, (and whose re-
moval from the judicial bench the people so much
regret) an excursion party to the lake was planned
and successfully carried out by Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. W. W. Riter. There were
about fifty invitations given, and Mr. Riter
placed a car at the disposal of the company.
There was no particular programme, except
having a good time generally, and it was
thoroughly an enjoyable affair. The day was a
fair one, as most June days are in this climate.
The party seemed happily grouped and the
ladies in charge did all in their power to make
the hours speed merrily.
	A few indulged in baths, but most of the party
sat in the pavilion, chatting and watching the
bathers and admiring the wonderful lake, the
western view, and the mountains beyond, until
the late train having arrived, on which the Judges
were expected, a call was made to repair to the
dining room, where the guests were served to an
elaborate dinner, including all the delicacies of
the season.  Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs.
F. S. Richards, (her husband having been unavoid-
ably detained), Judge Sanford and wife, Judge
Anderson and wife, also Miss Anderson and Mrs.
McCoy, were seated at the head of the table;
Delegate John T. Caine and wife, and Mrs. Buck
of Keokuk, were near them, and other ladies and
gentlemen filled the long table on either side, and
a merry company they were indeed.
	Mrs. Sandford had many gifts of flowers,
baskets and bouquets, and she looked radiantly
happy withal. It was very much regretted that
Judge Henderson aud wife, and Judge Judd and
wife, who were to have been of the party
could not attend; also that President Angus M.
Cannon who accompanied the party, was obliged
to return on an early train.
	On Saturday, June 8th, Judge and Mrs. Sanford
left Salt Lake City for the East, going by way
of the National Park. They have left many
warm friends and admirers in Utah, who will
gladly welcome them back should they ever re-
turn.
	All over the land in America and elsewhere 
abroad, the deepest sympathy for the sufferers of 
Johnstown has been felt, and in many places and
in many ways expressed; not only in touching

[Column 3]

and eloquent words, but also in material aid and
assistance coming from all parties, and all sections
of the country.
	Utah has responded heartily, as evinced by the
carloads of provisions sent and money liberally
donated by individuals and business firms. Also
by the united efforts of the citizens of Salt Lake
City, in planning, and carrying into execution the
Mammoth Concert in the large Tabernacle, the
proceeds of which it is now estimated will be over
seven thousand dollars.
	In this delightful entertainment for so noble a
purpose, the best local talent in the City, gave
their services with glad hearts and voices and
willing hands, to swell the fund for the benefit of
suffering humanity.
	Young ladies have not been idle, as we under-
stand quite a considerable sum was raised by
selling bouquets on the streets. Of course youth
beauty and flowers are in themselves attractive,
but when a noble purpose is in view, the enter-
prise was sure to be a grand success.
	In Ogden, a Benefit concert was given at the
tabernacle on short notice, but it was quite a
brilliant affair, and there as in Salt Lake, the best
local talent united heart and heand to make it a
success. Quite a sum was raised there too, to
swell the fund by the little girls selling bouquets,
in booths fitted up for the purpose on the streets.
All the flowers were donated from the gardens
round about. It was a very pretty sight to see
these sweet wee maidens surrounded with an
abundance of the most choice and lovely roses
and flowers of June, engaged in such a charitable
work at their tender age.
	We regret exceedingly our lack of space to
give more special details of what has been done.
Ogden, Provo, and other cities in Utah have also
raised money for the sufferers, by individual do-
nations. Some of the means we understand, is
to be devoted to the Seattle people, who were
sufferers on account of the great fire which
occured there recently.


