WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENVY. 

	Envy is not a habit; but might be properly
termed a disease, distempter of the mind, that dis-
orders all the faculties of it. It is not contagious
but proves fatal to the peace of mind and happi-
ness of those afflicted with it. 
	An envious person is one that makes himself
miserable contemplating the prosperity of others,


and lamenting his own adversity, his sole object
being to equal or excel his superiors; not so 
much so by exerting himself, or increasing his
own toil and ingenuity, to better his condition, as
by diminishing the merit due to the efforts of
others, while seeking his own elevation at the
cost of another's degradation. He so detests the
sound of praise in any one but self, that if by
chance one extol the virtues of a friend in his
presence, it casts a gloom over his countenance, 
starts the involuntary tear to his eye, and calls
into action, jealousy, revenge, falsehood, and the
lowest passions of the fallen man; and he really
suffers more in his mind and feelings, than if he
was afflicted with the most painful disease, or had
been seriously injured bodily. He is indeed a 
poor creature, and stands sorely in need of the
pity and sympathy of all mankind, from the fact
that his disposition will not allow him to enjoy
himself with anything, at any time, or on any
occasion. 
	Envy is not confined to any class of people, 
neither one portion of the country more than an-
other, but is found existing among the rich and
poor, high and low, and in every land and clime. 
It rages in the breasts of men and women, also
children, and has done ever since the world
was framed. It began with Satan, for after his fall
he could see nothing in Paradise to please him, 
and envied our first parents in their innocence, 
and therefore tempted them to sin. 
	It was this same spirit that caused Cain to kill
his brother Abel, and has been the prime cause of
action which finally terminated in the crucifixion 
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and has led
to the martyrdom of all the prophets both ancient
and modern. 
	Apostle James says, third chapter; "Where
envy and strife is, there is confusion and every
evil work." And we know that the Lord's house
is a house of order, and that His holy Spirit will
not enter where strife and confusion exist; neither
is there peace and happiness in their midst, and
we are desirous of obtaining both, 
	Envy carries so much venom and poison with
it that it alieniates the affections of families, 
friends, associates, and even raises rebelion
against God. Therefore, we should see the great
importance of watching its approach in all its
disguises, and dislodge it before it finds a resting
or abiding place in our hearts. 
	Let us improve the time and talents giveu to
each, instead of envying that which is our neigh-
bors; for excellence is granted only as a reward
of labor, and the envious hate that excellence
which they are too indolent to reach. 
	It has been said and that truly, "The envier
envies all men and no man envies him.” Let us
banish every evil thought from our hearts and
cultivate the spirit of brotherly love and charity
in our soul to all mankind, by seeking to do good
one towards another, and building each other up, 
instead of pulling others down, that when our
life is ended it may be said of us, "She was in-
deed a true Latter-day Saint, humble to God, 
loyal to her country, kind to her family and friends, 
and benevolent to all."
				MISS AGGIE CAMPBELL.
	Manuscript paper 14th Ward.


