[Column 2]
get all these varied thoughts into a creditable
article, I might remember you much oftener;
and when I can make up my mind even to jot 
down a few small lines, I feel that while re-
membering my dear sisters, that they too re-
member me; and my spiritual strength is re-
newed; my duties pointed out more plainly.
So if one seems to write for others, it is really
self and one's own weaknesses that suggest 
much that is given.
     If there is a sister in Zion who does not think
and that too, strongly, now-a-days, she must
be lacking in sensibility.  How many pure
and elevating thoughts rise in the mind, while
the wild and unprofitable are also forced in by
the wily tempter; and how often I ask, how
much am I learning to control these same
thoughts?  For I realize I must do so ere I hope
to successfully control my every word and
make it echo the sentiments of a true and
honest heart.  How often we can see even
those we love the best, in sore distress by un-
kind words;  and although the heart may not
be as cruel as this traitor tongue would lead
one to suppose, yet, certain it seems to me, that
if every evil and unholy thought is cast out,
our words and conversation must soon be that
of a Saint; and such that  the unseen angels
might be ready to listen  to, instead of being
driven from our presence.
     Our lives are ours to make or to mar.  We
have the right to earn a salvation in the
Kingdom of God, or be doomed to eternal
sorrow in the great hereafter, as we choose for
ourselves.  Shall we throw to the winds all
prospect of heavenly joy, for  the sake of
selfish whims being gratified during our earthly
life?  No! a thousand times no.  We are only
here on earth to prepare for an eternal exist-
ence beyond the grave, and why do we let
selfishness and avarice blind our eyes that we 
so often lose sight of the goal we so much de-
sire to gain.  We know that the only safe-
guard is prayer; and we are sure of His pro-
tecting influence while we humbly sue for it;
but if left alone we may stumble and fall;
and it may be so low we can never rise again.
Many of us say,  how thankful we are for
every trial we have been called upon to pass
through, and especially for the privilege of
having lived in the "Celestial order of Mar-
riage."  But were we willing that each member
be considered equal with ourselves?  Were we
really converted to the fact that this sacred
principle was revealed  by God for our tem-
poral as well as spiritual salvation?
     We cannot remove trials from the paths of
our daughters, but much may be done to
soften their trials by their  being taught im-
plicit confidence in God and never doubting 
his justice and mercy.  We are satisfied Our
Father is more merciful than we as mortals
can be, yet we must also see that to obtain like
blessings,  all must be in the same state of
preparation; if not by performing the ident-
cal labor,  by placing ourselves as humble and 
willing instruments in His hands, and if there
is  any law we have  not accepted truly and
sincerely in our hearts we  have yet to do so
before we  may hope to live up to the require-
ments of the Gospel, or be near that state of
happiness and perfection we hope to find after
laying down our life-work,  for if dropped
ever so suddenly, it cannot be received in such
an unfinished state, but must be gathered up
and begun at the very point it was left.

[Column 3]
Then surely, dear sisters, we are not wasting
our time and our struggles to overcome the
weaknesses of the flesh, and  to make each
day's work as perfect as possible.  And
though we may not now understand, we may
be comforted by these  beautiful words of the
poet:
 
		"When we reach the shining strand
		Where the waiting angels stand,
		In the far off father-land,
				We shall know;
		In the happiness unending
		Of a blissful comprehending,
		   What our life-work meant below.

		In the fullness deep and wide,
		Weary souls by sorrow tried,
		Knowing, shall be satisfied
				In His rest.
		Finding in the perfect sweetness
		Of an infinite completeness
		   That God's way is always best."
							    M. L. S.


