[column 2]
fields were neglected, the garden grew to weeds
and the fine old cherry trees were the sport of
the birds and the unruly urchins of the neigh-
borhood.  The beehives demanded some little
attention once or twice a year, but the master
never gave any orders to his servants so the
fine estate was left to ruin.  The old gentleman
sat in his chimney corner in her room, the one
she, whom he so loved had occupied, and drank
his tea, and ate his tasteless meals, (scarce
realizing what he did,) on the same round table
with snowy linen, where so many times in the
olden days they two had sat and chatted over
the romantic past and sketched out the golden
future.  There was the queer cupboard filled
with quaint old china, a few pieces of silver-
ware seldom ever washed, a chest of drawers
packed with linen that was never aired.
     For years the master lived on and on in the
same dull, stupid, monotonous wey until he
was nearly a hundred years old.  Once or
twice a year the eldest son and heir, long ago
tired of the factory which had fallen into a ruin,
the namesake of his father and father’s father,
Elisha, would come up from Boston, to look
after the property and see that no one carried
away the valuables; and each time he antici-
pated renting the estate to some thrifty young
farmer, who would make it pay a good interest,
as well as keep it in repair. “No! No!” was
invariably the answer. “Wait until I am
gone.” A younger son resided in the village,
but his family was large, though he like his
father had married late in life, and had not
been very successful in his enterprise, had met
with heavy losses, and the eldest son hated him
and would not allow any interference on his
part in regard to the homestead.  This was the
condition of affairs three score years ago and
more, at the time our story opens, and the vil-
lage was as described in the opening paragraph.
Four score years and more had flown since the
old Major first saw the light of day, and those
he knew in early life, one by one had gone un-
til none remained of the loved and cherished
companions of his youth, and he felt,

"Like one who treads alone, some banquet hall de-
	serted
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but he departed."

	He was much alone; occasionally his grand
children who lived near the homestead would
come in and listen to his strange stories, but his
heart seemed cold and dead, and he never
kissed or caressed them in fact they worried
him; so the old woman used to say who waited
on him.  The little things wondered at his in-
difference and often asked “What ails grand-
pa?” And mamma would explain how he
mourned for her he had so tenderly loved, his
wife; and that no daughter had come into the
home to fill the vacancy; and it may be strange
to state that none of his son’s wives suited him,
he thought them all too common place.  They
could not enter into his feelings and views; and
had no patience with his whims.  He talked
much to himself and often fancied that his
darling, the light of his life, sat by him as in
days gone by.
	One wintry day when the snow was deep
upon the ground, he was sitting by the little
corner fire-place toying with his silver snuff
box and musing as though holding sweet com-
munion with her he loved, and a little child
beautiful and bright, came running in, and
roused him from his dreamy reverie, exclaim-
ing, “News! grandpa; good news!” The poor
old man half dreaming said, “No, my son, she
has not come back, she cannot come, I have
called her often, but all in vain;” “But grand-
pa,” reasoned the child, “papa sent me to tell
you to come over;—you must come, its to see
the new baby, it came at sunrise this morning,
and papa wants you to drink to its good health
and long life, for it is a girl, and you are to

[column 3]
name it.” Hearing this and beginning to un-
derstand the situation, the aged man took his
hat and cane, and off he strode with the little
one to the house of his son, a short distance
away, only a few minutes walk, and with the
impatience of a child he entered.  The son
welcomed his father warmly, and after seating
him comfortably by the fire, explained why he
had sent for him on such a cold raw day.
“Father” said he; “we have had sons and
daughters, six in number, this is the seventh,
and perchance may be the last in your life-
time, and I want you to name it, and filling
the glass with purple wine he handed it to his
venerable father, who taking it drank to
“Hephzibah,” and said “I shall not live long
and she who was born to-day shall bear the
name of her I loved so well and mourn so sin-
cerely.  The wee little creature shall be called
for her grandmother, who was “the pride of
the village.” And then he uttered, possibly
unknown to himself, a prophecy that she should
become learned and wise, and that in all the
village none should excel her in the road to
fame.  But of all this no one thought much at
the time, but years afterwards the saying came
back to their remembrance with increased sig-
nificance.  Dinner was served, and the old
Major grew talkative.  A tender chord had
been touched by repeating the name he loved
so well, for how dear the plainest names be-
come when associated with those precious to
our hearts, we all know.   The children in-
quired what grandpa named the baby sister,
and when they were told 'twas Hephzibah, they
though it “dreadful horrid,” and even cried to
think so sweet a little baby should have such a
terrible name given to it.  But grandpa was
inexorable, and tears and entreaties were of no
avail, and as if to make peace he said she
should have all the fine embroidered laces, her
grandmother had wrought with her own dainty
fingers, the chests of linen, the elegant, old
china, the silver ware and spoons, and all the
silks and ribbons so long packed away out of
sight, that no woman was permitted to handle,
much less to wear.  All this and more he pro-
mised on the day of her birth to the uncons-
cious little one.
