THE FIRST OF JUNE.

	June 1st, "Primary Day" among the children
of Utah, is one of the happiest in all the year.
It comes when nature is at her best and all the
flowers are gorgeous with their wealth of color
and weighted with their rich perfume. It falls
between the season of uncertain and change-
able spring, and that of heated and oppressive
summer. In our altitude it is in every respect
far more suitable for the annual spring festival
of the children than the conventional Mayday
whose pleasures it each year more and more
completely reserves unto itself.
	As the birthday of Brigham Young, the day
deserves all the honor which it receives. A per-
sonal remembrance of that great man is held
by many of the youth who do not yet feel
themselves too old to share in the festivities of 
his anniversary. The younger portion know
him only for the deeds and words which he has
left behind. As they grow in years and un-
derstanding they will become better able to ap-
preciate his worth, and in the record which he
made they will find, as their elders do, ever
more to commemorate and admire.
	It is said that cotemporary history is never
just; what is praiseworthy is smothered with
adulation, what is faulty is distorted by preju-
dice. During the life of the man whose natal
day the children yesterday observed, his works
seldom received a word of praise. He was
slandered, caricatured, and contemned, and
most bitterly, strange to say, where his achiev-
ments were apparent every day. If he was
credited at all with the magnificent acquire-
ments which are a part of Utah's history, those
who were bold enough to recognize them came
in themselves for a share of the abuse heaped
upon him.
	Happily the world grows wiser as the years
move on. Petty enmities fade away as the
cycles sweep around, and those who judged
heatedly yesterday are to-day blessed with
calmer vision. Fresh eyes, too, and minds un-
tainted by passion, have come to see and ap-
preciate what to us is an old theme. Under
these conditions the work of Utah's founder is
better understood. Brigham Young is not now
stigmatized as a fanatic, a greedy zealot, an
ignorant autocrat. Men of sense and breadth,
judging him by his works, speak of him as
possessed of transcendant powers. They admit
that he was mighty in character, and must have
been filled with true statesmanship. They
recognize in the Utah of to-day a never dying
testimony of his greatness; aud, however much
they may differ with his creed, they do not
withhold their tribute to his nobility of mind.
	As the record of his life shall be more widely
read and better understood, admiration of his
character will increase with all who are able
to approximately measure men by the divine
standard: "By their works ye shall know
them." Who knows but what on some future
occasion when the children following their
beautiful custom are celebrating his anniver-
sary, a thought of regret may enter the hearts
of some who lately deemed Brigham Young's
name unworthy of being borne by one of the
streets of Ogden City!	The Standard.


