[Column 2]
lative to the wants of the needy, but in at-
tending funerals, clothing the dead properly, 
and have also been called upon to  speak
consoling words to the bereaved parents and
friends, explaining that beautiful, inspirational
hymn, composed by our late poetess, E. R. 
Snow, revealing the great eternal truth that
we have a mother in heaven; the Great Latter-
day prophet, Joseph Smith revealing the key
of knowledge to unlock the glorious principle
contained in that most consoling of all funeral
hymns, the pre-existence of spirits. The
Sectarian world with the bible in their
hands calling God, Father, consider it blas-
phemy to say we have a mother in heaven, and
that all the people on this earth are the off-
spring of our Father and mother in heaven.
		"Truth is reason, truth eternal
		Tells me I've a mother there."
	These exalting principles we endeavor to 
keep before the rising generation.
	Excuse me, as I was not called upon to 
preach the pre-existence of spirits, or to prove
the fact that there are women in heaven, but
merely to give a report of the St. Joseph Stake
of Arizona. 	
	We have eight organizations, with two
districts not fully organized into branches, 
numbering upwards of three hundred officers
and members. We hold our quarterly con-
ferences regularly with a good attendance. 
We hold our monthly meetings and take into
consideration the nursing of the sick and
treatment of disease. We are trying to hold
our annual fairs, not only to encourage the
Relief Society, but to develop the talent of
the Y. L. M. I. and Primary Associations, and
keep alive all these organizations. And I
can say for the young ladies, they are a credit
to the Stake; we attend all their conferences, 
and also those of the Primary Association.
	At our last fair we had on exhibition a fifty
pound sack of cacoons, raised by Stake Coun-
selor, Mary L. Ransome of the Relief Society. 
The Sisters also are raising some cotton used
mostly for batting; we have assisted in erect-
ing houses of worship in which we can hold
our meetings until we can build Society Halls. 
We have contributed $49.00 to the sufferers
in the Tennessee Massacre; $50.00 to those who
suffered under the rigid enforcement of the
Edmunds Law; $25.00 to assist a widow to 
emigrate; $300.00 to the Pima Hall built of
brick, which would be a credit to any of the
older Stakes of Zion. 	
	I am pleased to say that much credit is due
the sisters for contributing to the circulation 
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and feel to urge
it upon them to continue, inasmuch as the
Associations cannot keep posted relative to 
their duties as officers without it. 
	President Layton attends all our conferences, 
and gives us that encouragement which tends
to the growth and progress of the organization; 
and being a man of experience in this church, 
has made a success of presiding, and coloniz-
ing, redeeming the waste places of Zion, and
encouraging the Saints in building up the
country. He is aware there is gross misrep-
resentation gone abroad relative to the health
of that Stake; it is one of the finest agricul-
tural countries that the Saints have had the
privilege of colonizing and that our Stake
reports will show. The mortality is not so 
great as some of the older Stakes of Utah. 
The Gila river affords as much or more
water for irrigating purposes than the Provo
river. I have seen a crop of wheat or barley
cut in July, and corn planted on the same 
land, each crop yielding fifty bushels and up-
wards per acre. Doubtless many of you are 
acquainted with Philemen Merrill and Wm. 
McBride, who are our patriarchs, together
with their worthy wives, they send kind re-
gards to their numerous friends.


Sister Syrena Merrill is located at St. David
110 miles, where, in connection with her hus-
band, they have not only acted as missionaries,
but as saviors to all who would give heed to 
their counsel.
	Suffice it to say that President Young
labored for twenty-five years; to colonize that
land, keeping missionaries there among the
Indians; and we expect to build up cities to
the name of the Lord, and fulfill the predic-
tion of the prophet Brigham Young if needs
be, with our own emigration, as our enemies
have not the power to stop them from coming
to the earth.
