Open Letter to Teachers of Literature Lessons So many letters have come into the office asking for reference books relating to the Literature course that we are including an open letter in the editorial department which we trust will satisfy our readers. EDITORIAL 77 The first two writers in this year's course belong to the American group. Last year the book recommended was American Poetry, by Louis Untermeyer, so that we felt that most libraries and organizations that wished to supply themselves with that book had already done so. The three British writers used are John Masefield, Alfred Edward Housman, and Robert Louis Stevenson. It would not be a bad idea to go to your libraries in your various communities and ask them to purchase Modern British Poetry, by Louis Untermeyer, published by Harcourt, Brace and Howe, New York. That book would give you the three British authors mentioned. We do not feel that it would be right to ask organizations to buy it for two lessons. The Canadian authors are William Henry Drummond and Charles G. D. Roberts. We do not feel justified in asking organizations to buy a manual of Canadian literature for two lessons, but we do feel justified in asking them to get the libraries in their communities to buy it. We recommend Highways of Canadian Literature by J. D. Logan and Donald G. French, published by McClelland & Stewart, Toronto, Canada. The western writers are all living and perhaps in no case have yet published a volume of their poetry. What we expect to do is to get these various people to write rather complete sketches of their lives and submit a number of poems from which we shall make a rather wide selection and publish in the Magazine. If any of these poets live in your vicinity it might be a good idea to invite them to appear before large groups and talk, and in that way you will be able to become more intimate with the people than you might otherwise become. Of course, this idea of having the poets come and talk to you must be left to their personal discretion, and none should feel in any way disturbed if for any reason they do not care to accept the invitations tendered. We have very greatly appreciated the initiative and ambition shown by our workers who have gone out and collected material not published in the Magazine to enrich the lessons, but we shall have to ask them not to feel disappointed when we come to our home writers if they are not able to find material not in the lessons. This condition cannot be remedied for if we study people who are now living, and who have not published books, we have to do the pioneering and publish the first material that may be accessible. Of course, the poems of all of these people have been published in Church magazines for years and many will have access to the back volumes of our Church magazines. They will furnish you with poems that could not possibly be ee in one lesson. We trust that this statement will meet the questions in your mind and that you will help us in this effort to make you acquainted 
 with some of our home writers. We earnestly ask your cooperation and good will in the task that lies before us.