Does Your Food Burn Correctly By N. I. Butt The good cook makes her dinner tasty by a delicate balance of all the ingredients. We sometimes marvel at the skill of such a cook, but have you ever compared her with the agents which combine the various chemicals resulting from the digestion of our food. We speak of skill among cooks and chemists, but in terms of the exactitude which God gave to our bodies, the mechanical skill of man is clumsy and amateurish. No chemist is so careful that a mistake is not occasionally made in mixing his chemicals, and no cook is so painstaking that she never forgets to add salt to some dish. The most renowned chemist on earth could not take the food you eat and mix it so that, were it injected into your blood stream as your digestive system injects it, your body would not sicken and die. The body has a whole cupboard-full of delicate seasoning fluids stored away in handy portions of the system, and when some food contains too much salt, too much of certain acids, or some other excess or deficiency, these organs immediately commence to throw counteracting or supplementing substances into the blood, so that there is never more than a fraction of a per cent difference in the composition of the body. Should you be so neglectful of food values that you consistently fail to fully supply your body with some vital chemical such as calcium or iodine, the organ which controls this constituent sends chemical messengers to the storehouses of the deficient substances ordering the release of enough of the lacking material to prevent disastrous results within the body. Fortunately for the human race, during times of plenty, the body looks to the future, filling its cupboards with the supplies most needed when scarcity comes. During summer, for instance, we may eat more of the element calcium than we need, and part is stored. The following winter we may neglect foods high in calcium and a shortage results. The chemical messengers are then dispatched to borrow calcium from the bones, intending to repay them when the supply again becomes plentiful. If this deficiency continues for long periods, however, the calcium controlling organ may become overworked and diseased, whereupon the possessor of the body is taken down with some type of sickness. It would be too long and tedious a task to try to illustrate in detail the trials and struggles which we foolishly impose on 
 each of our body regulators, so we shall use only a single one, the thyroid gland. This gland is of special interest to the people of the intermountain region because it is very often overworked and diseased. From 25 to 85 per cent of the school children of Utah have been found to have at least mild defects of this gland. The thyroid gland is one of what might be called the automatic heat regulating devices of the body. The food which you eat burns in the body the same as it does if you throw it into the fire. The burning process in the body, however, must be controlled, else the fires would grow too hot and consume the tissues. Every cook knows that sugar in a pan burns more quickly than cabbage or a good tough beefsteak. This difference in rapidity of burning applies equally well within the body. If we are normal, our temperatures must remain almost stationary, but if some quick burning substance like candy be piled into the system it tends to cause a feverish temperature. When this begins the thyroid gland must commence to throw fire extinguishing liquids into the body to slow down the rate of burning. In the summertime, when the air is warmer than the body, there is a tendency for rapid burning within the tissues, resulting in overheating. The thyroid takes care of this tendency, or the opposite one which comes during winter, with such nicety that we seldom vary in temperature a single degree in a year. The year-by-year rate of burning varies considerably at different ages. It is low just after birth, then it increases rapidly until almost school age, after which there is a rapid lowering for ten or fifteen years. The period of life above about twenty years is marked by a slow rate. The periods of rapid heat production, it will be noted, come during times when there is rapid growth or sudden changes in life. Women are subject to greater variation than men, because they must burn enough food to supply their nursing babies, and they have other disturbances at puberty and thereafter which call for sudden changes in the rate of food burning. For these reasons, it is perhaps more important that the thyroid of women be kept in good working order, than it is for men. The thyroid gland in some individuals is extra active, while in others it is sluggish. Those with overactive glands burn food very rapidly, and this causes them to have voracious appetites, or eat what appears to be excessive quantities of food, yet they do not grow fat; in fact they are often very skinny. Those with sluggish thyroids, on the other hand, burn food slowly, and may grow fat when eating comparatively small quantities of food. Goiter, the visible indication that the thyroid gland is having difficulty with its work, occurs among girls and women about twice as often as it does among boys and men. The average rate among school girls in Utah in 1924 was 54 per cent, while that for DOES YOUR FOOD BURN PROPERLY? 81 boys was 31 per cent. Among the adults in Spanish Fork, Utah, 42 per cent of the women had goiter, but only 17 per cent of the men were thus affected. As is well known there are two types of goiter, the ordinary one, recognized by an enlargement just below and on either side of the Adam's apple, and the "pop-eyed" type. The former when well developed sometimes causes the victim to be depressed and constantly nervous; also to have pasty faces, dull eyes, and ashy complexions. These serious cases are often accompanied by enlargements, sometimes reaching the size of the clenched fist, and the swelling presses on the blood vessels, arteries and muscles causing various complications. If the trouble begins during infancy, it may result in an idiotic dwarf called a cretin. The second type of goiter, the "pop-eyed," is usually accompanied by hot and cold flushes, warm sweats, rapid pulse, and bulging eyes. Patients with this type have a high death rate and usually must undergo a surgical operation if they recover. Fortunately only about two per cent of the total goiter cases are of this more violent type. It is not entirely clear just how the thyroid gland proceeds to regulate the burning of food. But however it happens, the element iodine, known to everyone in its dissolved form as one of the best antiseptics for wounds, is essential. The quantity of iodine needed is very small, a 130-pound or 2,080-ounce individual containing only two-thirds of an ounce in his whole body. Most of the two-thirds of an ounce, however, is concentrated in the thyroid gland in the form of an extremely complicated chemical called thyroxin, which acts as an agent to manufacture the regulating fluid. When the cook begins to make a dessert, and finds that she has no sugar to satisfy her recipe, she may search around for some substitute such as syrup or honey. The thyroid tries to do exactly the same thing when our food contains no iodine to satisfy the recipe it is using; it tries to substitute another element for the iodine. But just as the cook's dessert may not taste exactly right, so the substitute used by the thyroid is flat. The thyroid in its endeavor to manufacture the thyroxin without the iodine, overworks itself, and puts more of this element into active use than is best for the gland. The over-activity causes the swelling which gives us the visible sign of goiter. Most people who have not studied the goiter problem think that it is a trouble confined to man, but like most diseases to which man is subject, we find many goiterous animals. In fact wholesale curing of goiter was performed on fish, colts, calves, and sheep before it was used on children. Dogs were the first animals used to prove that a lack of iodine will cause goiter, and that in about 95 per cent of the cases that have not progressed too far, iodine will restore the individual to normal. When this fact had 
 been established, we began to glance about to see how general goiter was and discovered the rather serious condition which we now know of. Practically all of the interior parts of the world thus far studied show a lack of iodine in foods and a high prevalence of goiter. The World War draft examinations, and the recent study of school children, show that a very serious condition exists in the intermountain states, including Utah. This does not apply to all sections of the country, as the iodine present varies from place to place. Alpine canyon water has been found to contain only 18 parts of iodine in each hundred billion parts of water, whereas only a few miles away, at Goshen, the water showed 250 parts per hundred billion. In the latter place the children were goiterous in only 17 per cent of the total; whereas, in Alpine, where the children were drinking the water with only a smaller quantity of iodine, goiter occurred among 58 per cent of the total. Some of the children in every locality in Utah were apparently suffering for want of iodine. Since we know that the majority of cases of ordinary goiter can be cured, or at least greatly benefited, by supplying the thyroid gland with iodine, a solution of the problem is at hand. The next question is, what is the best way to supply the deficiency? The schools are attempting to answer this question by the use of chocolate-coated iodine tablets. They seem to be having good success. But waiting until the children reach school age may be assuming too great a risk. Nutrition experts inform us that many cases of malnutrition began to develop before the children were born, and continued until maturity was reached. The same may be said of iodine deficiency. In regions like Utah where iodine is scarce, mothers who take iodine through the period of expectancy have less disturbance and discomfort, and their children are more likely to be vigorous and free from goiter, than do mothers who fail to observe this precaution. If the mother continues to take iodine during the nursing period, and the child is then kept supplied with iodine throughout its youth, there is not the danger of improper development that there is if no precautions are taken until school age is reached. Interior regions can sometimes correct the deficiency in iodine by a wise choice of foods, but this usually requires the purchase of foods which have been shipped in from near the oceans. Edible sea weeds, agar, and water cress are among the best plants for furnishing iodine, and next comes lemons and lettuce. None of these, however, rank anywhere near such sea-fish as oysters, codfish, lobsters, shrimp, and mackerel. Salmon is probably the cheapest of the sea-fish which are high in iodine, but ranks considerably below those mentioned above. Most inland people, however, cannot afford to buy enough DOES YOUR FOOD BURN PROPERLY? 83 of the sea-foods to fully supply their thyroid glands with iodine. Cheaper though less satisfactory means are available for these people, by the use of iodized salt and iodine tablets. Some cities have been experimenting with iodine placed in the city water systems. Iodized salt is about the cheapest source of iodine, but the iodine tablets have the advantage of containing the iodine in an organic compound, and therefore, more readily available to the body. Adults should always use caution in attempting to correct thyroid troubles by the use of either salt or the chocolate coated tablets. Some adults have disagreeable disturbances when they use more than small quantities of iodine, and foodstuffs high in this substance are the only hope for them. Rapidly growing children seldom experience such difficulties, so the cheaper sources of iodine are available for those who are most likely to be benefited by its use. It is usually advisable for adults to consult with a physician before attempting to cure goiter by the use of iodine, because adults are sometimes at a stage beyond hope of relief by such means. No one with the "pop-eyed" type of goiter should attempt to effect a cure by means of iodine without first consulting a physician, because only a small proportion of this variety of trouble yields to the iodine treatment, and some cases are actually made worse by the use of iodine. Fire-Flies of the Fog (The Woman Drives Her Car) By Linda S. Fletcher The globules of the mist For phantoms of the gloom Lurk in my way, Enshroud the dusky Night There, to and fro, disport, With silver pall; In solitude I purr along, Ahead, and all about me, throng Bright fire-flies in a darting glow of light, Weaving through gray. Busily gay; And yet a thrill of joy I know "Danger!" they call.