The Centenary of the Birth of Emmeline B. Wells It will be one hundred years on the 29th day of February, 1928, since Emmeline B. Wells was born, yet her name is still a household word, and the vision of the slight figure with the keen eyes has not yet begun to fade from the memory of the thousands who knew her. To many she was patriot, pioneer, poet and president, all in one. The Patriot: The first definite thought we have of her is connected with the birth of her country, for she loved to tell how her grandfather, dressed in the uniform of a soldier of the American Revolution, came to take dinner with her on her first birthday when she was four years old. She treasured at all times the provisions of the American Constitution and was most valiant in her efforts to bring 
 about an amendment to that constitution enfranchising the women of the nation. This deep-seated desire she saw realized before the day of her death, being permitted to vote, as she was many times, on the great national issues of her day. The Pioneer: It seldom falls to the lot of one to be a pioneer in so full and so complete a sense as was "Aunt Em Wells." She lived in a covered wagon on the very spot where the Hotel Utah now stands. Indeed, a daughter was born to her there. She was one of the very first teachers of Salt Lake City, and her school room was a log cabin. She was editor and business manager of the Woman's Exponent, a magazine which was the forerunner of the Relief Society Magazine, a periodical that will become increasingly valuable as the days go by, for the historical data contained in its pages. In pioneer days it was a real achievement to make successful any literary venture, but to be able in the face of all existing prejudice to carry on and publish a woman's magazine was extraordinary in the highest sense of the word. The Poet: The pages of the Woman's Exponent were often enlivened and given exquisite touches through the verses of its editor. The poems that filled the columns of her magazine were often resplendant with descriptions of New England pine and hemlock as well as the sunshine of this western desert and the gurgle and ripple of its canyon streams. Her words have been caught by little children whose sweet voices carry forth the melody to which her verses have been set, and thus the valleys have been made to ring with the music of her song. The President: Thousands of women in the Church will recall the years of her presidency of the Relief Society. 'They will bring to mind the fact that to her was given the mission of gathering and saving wheat for future times. They will recall, among other things, that she was visited by many, many noted persons, and that she had met practically all the presidents of the United States, from Lincoln to Wilson, and that her name was known far over land and sea. It isa fitting tribute to her life, that a committee of women from varied organizations are interested at the present time in a memorial bust to mark the centenary of her birth.