[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial What About our Clothes]

EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -::.:. - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - -Janette A. Hyper Assistant Manager - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's 'Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vor. VIII APRIL, 1921 No. 4 WHAT ABOUT OUR CLOTHES? There seems to be a concerted movement on the part of women everywhere to reduce clothing to the elementary terms which Eve employed when she pinned a few fig leaves together with a few thorns. Indeed, to look at fashion-plates and to read the dictums of Paris, one wonders whether even fig leaves will be in evidence, or will they in the future be in the discard? Thinking people are naturally concerned over this state of affairs, and various reasons are named as the cause of the manifestation, and varied counsels and adjurations are thundered forth in the pulpit and press, all usually directed to the mothers. O, these mothers—of the race! Yet this indecency of clothes is not only a cause of immorality but is the effect of a vicious social ideal. Therefore let us consider the question somewhat in its larger moral and worldly aspects. Well, I am a mother; the mother of three daughters and ten sons; and I was a girl. I am a grandmother today and could easily be a great-grandmother if my twenty-two-year-old granddaughter were as matrimonially foreward-looking as her mother and grand-mother were. Moreover, I have a very excellent memory of my girlhood innocence of thought, and I likewise inherit the New England tormenting habit of introspection. As 
 I taught special physiology to the girls at the Brigham Young University for many years, I was obliged to learn some plain truths. With that background, and with the foundation which comes from the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ sets up strict chastity in both men and women, as the pillar of the home, I may look out from my religious and domestic retreat at the world and its growing depravity with infinite pity and prayer. Worldly men and women have set up a double standard of virtue—the man may sin little or much—but the wife must be sinless. Yet, let me qualify that—the very recent tendency is to glorify women who tear their own moral standards to pieces and who go forth into the market-place refusing motherhood, and bearing on their shoulders the same tattered emblems of domestic ideals which serve for smoking, drinking, swearing and unmoral men. Who is to blame for all this, and what is the remedy? I wish it might fit the purpose of this writing to answer on general lines that everyboly is to blame, especially the man who stands as the leader and example of his household—and that the only remedy is to accept the gospel of Jesus Christ and to square our lives by that standard. One shining pillar of that standard I wish to take as the basis of this writing—personal chastity of both men and women from birth to death. Here is a segment of our daily domestic problem stated in direct terms at the head of this article: What about our clothes? The mothers of the race, especially the oblivious grandmothers, may choose to dismiss the matter by saying that such indecent fashion conditions have always existed in greater or less degree according to the time, the people and the environment. Yet if they are to give the benefit of their experience and counsel to their struggling mother-daughters, they must face the question squarely and try to discover some measurably helpful answers. First then, shall we not insist that men, husbands, fathers and sons, shall assemble at this council and lead out in both discussion and solution? Do you recall Mrs. Poyser's reply to Bartle Massey in "Adam Bede" when he fung out the challenging statement that "women were fools." "Yes," she sanely countered, "women are fools. God A'mighty made 'em to match the men." So here we are, men and women, gravely concerned over the growing tendency to adopt more and more indecent costumes on the part of our women. We know but little about this evil in our sheltered Latter-day Saint communities; but there are some basic truths which we, as well as men and women everywhere, should EDITORIAL. 229 _ be made to understand before we can approach the growing evil of indecent clothing and dancing with anything like comprehension of its difficulties and possibilities. Men do not understand women—every penny-a-liner knows that quaint old chestnut. But it is an equally ancient truth, although it is a profound secret, that women do not understand men. The charm of the sexes is unlikeness, differentiation, with the constant mystery which bounds for us the world with which we are unfamiliar. Women, bless their age-long stupid hearts, think they understand men, and all their sex ideals are set up on the sedate pedestal framed upon their own physical limitations and what they constantly demand of men as their own sex 'corallary. On the other hand, no man, unless he be a physician or a shrewd, corrupt rascal, can be made to understand that women,— unless they ride in the same medical or impure vehicles as such men do—are perpetually innocent. Women meander around in that inner garden of Eden, until death at the century mark transports them to some place where some one, it is hoped, will give them enough taste of the forbidden fruit to set their teeth on edge. Try to tell a white-haired grandmother who has never even smelled the apple, through wise books, or personal, unwise, youthful action that it is wicked for a girl to go about with bare shoulders and silk-clad legs bare to the knee and she will give you the stony stare as she insinuatingly asks, Why? If you trv to present her with a portion of apple in the shape of description as to the temptation such exhibitions have for young men, or old men, she responds either sarcastically or loftily, "What nonsense! Men's nature, indeed! Men have no business with such thoughts. Pure men don't have such horrid impulses. What's wrong with that lovely, delicate arm and neck? To the pure all things are pure!" Discouraging? Of course, your retreat is —— as discreetly as may be, although you know your own reputation has gone by the board with your pious endeavor to point out the tree of knowledge. A man, or a boy, is never innocent in the matter of sex manifestations. He may be vastly ignorant on other matters, and he may be positively pure in word and deed himself, yet all the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't tear the conviction from his soul that every girl, be she ten, or fifty years old, does know exactly what he knows about sex matters, and knowing it, often deliberately sets a trap to stab his hard-won chas- 'tity to the death. If you try to tell him, if he is a pure man— and our men are pure or they are not Latter-day Saints 
 No matter if he be a boy or a grandfather—that mothers and girls sin ignorantly in this'matter of clothes, he will only be in-— finitely amused at the depths of your own credulity. Try to explain that for girls all sex-matters are hidden forever—unless they sin, or study,—in banks of romance-laden clouds of rose and purple mists, and the man will either scoff or pity you. Then what shall we begin with as to remedy for this irdecent-clothes-evil? Knowledge! Knowledge for the pure, chivalrous boy concerning the natural innocence and ignorance of girls. Kowledge for the pure romance-fooled girl that she is constantly offering, when improperly clothed, the fruit of temptation to every male who sees her. Also kindly and firmly awaken the girl—the boy carries his knowledge ever with him—from her innocent state by telling her in terms of creative life exactly what her dreams. And thrills mean. Show her the danger of offering open temptation to the man as well as veiled temptation to her own ignorant self in the form of improper dances, costumes, conduct, and even glances and words. Tell her about the four physical natural appetites which preserve and perpetuate life; the appetite for food, for drink, for sleep and for child-bearing, or procreation. Tell her how infinitely stronger the last is than any of the others. Then tell her of the menace to life and society if any of these appetites, or desires, especially the last, be gratified unlawfully. Just uncover these sex-powder magazines and explain how quickly explosions occur. Be sure to picture the normal and beautiful results of such appetites, when legally awakened and domestically satisfied. Let your information contain many "do's" as well as a few disciplinary "don'ts." Teach her that repression is as unnatural as lewdness. Our state has paid ten thousand dollars or more in a health campaign this year to teach children to wash their little hands before meals, to breathe through their little noses, and to wash their teeth three times a day. Our government, in a futile endeavor to correct the moral or immoral conditions revealed by the war, spent tens of thousands of dollars to scare parents to death over the prevalence of venereal diseases. Well, so far, so ' good, perhaps. But what's the use of snipping at the branches of a diseased tree when the root needs attention? The ground work of all teaching should be what the Prophet Joseph Smith taught and, what all of his successors have maintained, personal purity from the cradle to the grave. Let there be an inflexible single standard of virtue set up as the only safe foundation for a home. This ideal can be painfully built up, year by year, in the pulpit, by skilled lecturers, and through devoted teachers, only to be destroyed in one thoughtless dinner-table conversation between worldly men whom boys have set up, as EDITORIAL...: 231 social or business leaders, or the deliberate acknowledgment by physicians, or public press leaders, that a single standard of virtue "is an impossibility." Granted that such a standard is infinitely harder for men, (especially for men of the world, whose, social ideals rest on the double standard of virtue foundation)—+to attain and to maintain than it is for women, women must still insist that this rule of life is the only one which will, here or hereafter, qualify men to stand at the head of the household. The double standard of virtue, I am convinced, lies at the very root of most of the present evils of society in the world. Why should women remain pure, why should they bear children in pain, and rear them in struggle, for fathers who are neither chaste nor loyal to the family they nominally support? No wonder that worldly women want birth-control laws, prefer flats, and hotels, learn to smoke and to pet dogs; their natural maternal impulses, of which this indecent dress is but a silly, if not criminal, outward expression, when denied legitimate exercise in a normal, well-directed home (founded on a religion of spiritual ideals and personal discipline) fling off all barriers and follow men as they flee from home life into clubs and dissipation. O, the pity of it all! To return to the problem as it begins to affect our own lives and homes here in Utah. Mothers and fathers, teachers and preachers, even here at home, must seek and find the best ways to open the eyes of boys and men, to their own responsibilities and to the difference in the sex-nature thoughts of girls and of boys. While girls and women must quietly and diligently study the different nature and impulses which boys and men both enjoy and endure. Sex is sex in both. But its manifestations and unfoldings are so very differently comprehended by the boy and by the girl. Let not this» flood of iniquity pour into our own homes through our own indifference or ignorance. Wake up, mothers. Then there is another important factor in this problem. The magnetic gifts of natural, female social leaders is too often underestimated or totally ignored. The gifts of the preacher, teacher, artist and musician, are recognized and lauded. But the gifts of a man or woman who has the power to set the civic or social pace are frequently despised, always envied, and too often commercialized or even prostituted by the possessor, because of lack of sympathy and guidance. Such socially-minded women, too often learn to be satisfied with the cheap triumph of unusual conduct or indecent dress. The religious leader and social leader are rarely the, same person. These unrecognized and yet magnetic social female 
 Leaders are sometimes society's menace. Probably childless themselves, from deliberate selfish choice, they fritter away their domestic and maternal impulses in ill-considered club leadership and slum social-welfare activities. Easily persuaded to fly from civic reforms to social problems and evils, they, by their fashionable dress, conduct and sub-normal ethical standards, set destructive fire to the altars in the homes of the poor and radiate extravagance and indecency to the heart of every silly girl who enters their aura of influence. Such a woman or girl, social leaders as they naturally are, if they are properly reached, and their best impulses appealed to, could do more in one month to correct bad habits in costumes than all the preachers in the pulpits. These social leaders, in our Church at least, could and should be transformed into religious leaders, their powers acknowledged, and their leadership along right lines guided by friendly stimulus and encouragement. The woman leader, however, must be taught sex laws to begin vith for both men and women, whether she is sixteen or sixty. Cherish your leaders for there are so few leaders and so very many followers. And now, what about this problem of indecent clothes and conduct as applied to our own Latter-day Saint young people? Be not asleep at your posts, mothers and grandmothers, for vanity and innocence are the natural inheritance of girls in every age and every clime. The story of the Garden of Eden is acted out every day of the world, in every age of the world. Adam is never deceived, Eve is always deceived as to the root-sources of her impulses and her thrills. We don't want to shut our girls up as the orientals do in order to protect their innocence, then we. Must teach them the truth, explain the reasons for our advice and thus prevent this on-rushing surge of looseness and wickedness from gaining a foothold in Latter-day Saint homes. By right knowledge and by right example we may hope to solve in part the problem of modern clothes for modern women.