[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Out of the World G. Milton Babcock]

Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock (Continued ) The wheel was duly secured, the first payment taking his ten-dollar bank balance, and early Saturday morning Walter started. Quickly he crossed the bridge to Green Island, and following along by the old "Gully" where, in the summer, he used to catch '"bull-heads," and where, in the winter, he used to skate and make torches of the "cat-tails" that grew along the shore, he soon reached the second branch of the Mohawk which flows into the Hudson at Van Schaick's Island. He followed generally the course of the old River Road which, in Revolutionary times, connected Albany with Saratoga, and on which General Burgoyne proposed to march to Albany. Next came Cohoes—as famous for its knitting mills as Troy for its collars. In Waterford, a mile further, Walter stopped for a few minutes to watch the operations in connection with the construction of the new Barge Canal, an undertaking rivaling the Panama Canal. A few miles beyond Waterford—the farthest point to which Hudson penetrated in the Half Moon—overlooking the placid river, stood an old landmark dear to the memory of Walter's family—the "Red-White and Blue House'—built by Benjamin Gates, one of the earliest settlers. As the Gates family had intermarried with the Nelsons, a custom had sprung up of having family reunions each year. As a little chap, Walter had attended the gatherings with his mother, and later with his aunt and uncle.. So many of the old folks had gone, however, that no reunions had been held for several years. Walter had not visited the place since the last reunion, and, feeling somewhat tired and thirsty, he dismounted and walked reverently up the weed-grown path. How everything had changed! An electric line had cut off part of the front yard, so that the approach to the house was not as spacious and attractive as in former years. However, Walter recognized the same rosebushes and peonies as of yore—though some were wild-grown—but it was with difficulty that he traced the old paths about the garden plots. Many a youthful foot had stumbled across the cobblestone barriers that enclosed the gardens while playing the ancient and honorable game of tag. In answer to his knock, a lady, in her early thirties, appeared: 
 MAGAZINE. "Why, hello, Walter; glad to see you. My, how you've grown! Sit down here and rest yourself." "Thanks; I am taking a long ride on my wheel, and when I came up, I couldn't resist stopping to see you. How are all your folks." "All are well, although mother is so lonesome since father died. She is living in Waterford, you know, and we can hardly get her out here to see us as it makes her so sad." "Guess I'll go outside and look around a bit," said Walter a few minutes later. "Is the old spring still running?" "To be sure, Walter. While you are looking about I'll get you a bite to eat," she said graciously. The surroundings, except in front of the house, had changed but little. The same fruit and shade trees; the same grape vines which yielded their luscious fruit at reunion time; the same outbuildings. To be sure, the old swing was gone; and no longer did the doves coo from the gables as the children playing below "counted out" with, "one flew east, and one flew west, and one flew over the cuckoo's nest." Walter noticed that the paint on the house had become worn and faded and now bore but slight resemblance to the national colors which had given the house its name. The old rustic bench was still doing service under the spreading elm, and after quaffing the clear, sparkling water from the spring—not the grown-up way, from a cup; but Kidland's old way of lying flat on the belly and meeting your reflection in the tinkling fountain—-Walter sat down to muse. A sacred bench it had been in the old days; many the troth that had been plighted here—perhaps the elm would tell! His parents and grandparents had once trodden this ground— had rested on this same bench. It was here that his father and mother spent their honeymoon, and, no doubt, under this very elm they had whiled away many of the blissful hours of their newly married life. If his father had only lived! Suddenly, it seemed that he could hear the old voices! Ah, - there was "Swanee River!"—or was it, after all, but the sighing of the willows bordering the brook nearby, or the drone of the distant electric car? Once more the plaintive strains of "Old Black Joe" came to him, and in this hallowed spot the voices of his ancestors touched the innermost recesses of his being, lifting him above his conscious self into the splendor of the realms of the past, and inspiring him to purposes larger than his own. Oh, how many had sung this quaint, old-fashioned song on these grounds in the strength and vigor of their youth, only to gather in later years and realize that, indeed, much of the gayety of youth had fled, old friends had departed from this earth to a OUT OF THE WORLD. 219 better land, and old scenes had passed away! Ah! The last song— always sung at the close of the reunion—came hopefully to him from the porch. Almost unconsciously, he joined in the chorus: "Yes, we'll gather at the river, The beautiful, the beautiful river; Gather with the Saints at the river That flows by the throne of God." "Come, Walter," she called, gently, a look of inexpressible sadness in her eyes. As Walter arose, he tried to hide the tears that had welled up in his eyes; but she saw—and understood! Soon Walter resumed his journey. Often, as he pedaled along, he pictured trails of the Horicons, and later of the Mohawk Indians, streaming down the valley and winding upward to the eyes of the wilderness—the mountains. Due to the excellent state road, he made the forty odd miles to Glens Falls in a little over five hours, although it was an upward climb most of the way and he was fast tiring. Now he was in the foothills of the Adirondacks. Crossing the Hudson in the southern part of the city, he turned to the right and made his way toward Sandy Hill, three miles beyond. In response to his inquiries, a neat little cottage was pointed out as belonging to John Nelson. Although it had been some time since Walter had seen him, he recognized the sturdy, middle-aged man hoeing in the garden on one side of the house, as his uncle. "I guess you will remember me?" ventured Walter as his uncle looked up. "To be sure, Walter; I'm glad to see you once more. You came on your wheel?" "Yes, Uncle John, and I'm mighty glad to get here, too, although I have had a fine time along the road. It is certainly a pretty country up this way." | "Come inside," his uncle invited. "Your aunt and the girls will be more than glad to see you, though the girls aren't home from the shop yet."; "Why, how are you?" greeted the housewife cordially. "I never expected to see you up this way. How did you leave Billy and his wife?" Evidently, they had not heard of Walter's leaving home, so he felt that matters might just as well be set right at once: _ "They are all right so far as I know—you know I haven't lived with them for several months now," he answered. "How's that, Walter?" queried his uncle. "Aunt Angie and I couldn't agree, and I thought it best that JT leave home and start out for myself." 
 "T don't know as f blame you," commented the man thoughtfully, "though, if you care to, I'd like to have you tell me more about it. Come on into the sitting room while mother's getting supper—the girls'll be here before long." "You have a nice place here, Uncle John," observed Walter. "Yes; we've worked hard to get this little home. Now tell me more about yourself, Walter." He listened attentively as Walter told in a clear, straightforward manner the circumstances that had surrounded his life, interrupting with exclamations of surprise and sympathy as Walter depicted the trials and hardships his mother had been forced to endure. "T''ll swan!" he commented when Walter had finished. "I can see that I'm not the only one of the family who has had a hard row to hoe. I don't know whether your Uncle Billy has ever told you much about me; but I was the youngest of the family, Billy being the oldest, then your father and I. Billy always worked in Wilbert's car shops in Green Island, but when the time came for me to start to work, the shops were failing and I couldn't get in, though Billy tried hard to place me. Times were slack in the vicinity, and hearing that the paper mills were booming up this way, I left home and came up here, and here I have been ever since. I am a paper maker, having served a long, hard apprenticeship from the lowest, meanest job in the mill to the highest.'' On they talked—until the girls came home and the housewife called them to supper. VI All too soon the alarm-clock welcomed the daylight, Monday morning, and after partaking of a hasty breakfast, Walter started for home. It was a lovely morning, and Walter pedaled swiftly. When he had traveled about eight miles, he was startled by his rear tire butsting. Close examination revealed that the valve had been pulled from the tire—a most serious accident. "Tire must not have been hard enough," he muttered. Pushing his way into Schuylerville, three miles further, he was hailed by a man who was painting from the top of a ladder. "What's the matter, young man, a puncture?" "Yes," answered Walter, gloomily, "I have torn the valve from my tire." "That's too bad; wait a minute and I'll see if I can hel» you. OUT OF THE WORLD.. 221 "Tell you what you do," advised the man after critically examining the rent; "I have an old valve here which is just the thing to fix the tire. However, they worked for several hours before the rent was repaired. Thanking his benefactor, Walter mounted his wheel and was off. He had gone but a few blocks, however, when the tire went flat again. "Guess [ll have to 'hoof it,'" he muttered despondently. "Tt take the towpath, as it will be shorter and not so dusty," he decided. How hot it was! Not a breath stirred. Towering, silvery white clouds in the west presaged a thunder-storm. Walter pitied the poor, patient mules as they tugged steadily on the great cables, moving all too slowly the ponderous canal boats. Upon coming to Bemis Heights, he rested a while, and then decided to take the electric car to Mechanicville. Going into the village grocery, he inquired the fare to Mechanicville. His countenance fell at the reply, "Thirty cents," for he had but twenty-three cents in his pocket. "Mister," he said, addressing the storekeeper, "I left Sandy Hill this morning on my wheel to get to work in a bank in Troy. My tire blew out, and I've been in Schuylerville all morning trying to fix it. I couldn't get it fixed, so started out on foot. I am anxious to get to Mechanicville where I might be able to catch a wagon the rest of the way. I've got only twenty-three cents with me. Will you lend me the other seven cents until I can come this way again?" "To be sure I will, young man. Anyone who starts out to walk that distance deserves help. Here you are, and I hope you make it all right. Have you had anything to eat since morning?" "No, sir." "Well, then, here is a bag of cookies I'll give you." "Thank you, sir, and you may be sure I'll not forget your kindness," said Walter feelingly, as he was really hungry. ° "Ts this the first time you've been in the Heights?" inquired the groceryman. "No, sir; I was here with my parents when I was a year old. We stayed at Sheldon's." "Ts that so? Now, I knew the Sheldons well; they were my customers up until a few years ago, when they moved to Schenectady. Now, what might your name be?" "Walter Nelson." "Walter Nelson?" repeated the man in surprise. 'Your father's name was Joe? Why I knew him well, and your mother, too. They both were—" "There's the car now," interrupted Walter. "Goodby, sir: T''lt stop by here again," he assured, as he hurried away. 
 With a sigh of relief, he hoisted his wheel onto the rear of the car and seated himself. The car had proceeded about a quarter of a mile when the conductor came along. With perfect assurance, Walter handed him the fare. "That your wheel?" asked the conductor gruffly. "Yes, sir." "Twenty-five cents extra," he demanded. Walter's heart nearly stopped beating. "Mister, I had an accident with my wheel and am a long way from home. Can't you let the bicycle go free?" "What do you think this is, an express car?" snorted the unfeeling trainman. "T haven't any more money, sir." "Then you'll have to get off. Here's your thirty cents." It was a discouraged boy who made his way back to the Champlain Canal towpath. At first, he thought of returning to Bemis Heights, as the kind-hearted groceryman would, no doubt, loan him enough money to go all the way home by train. Again, he was tempted to try another electric car with the hope that the next conductor would let him through. However, he finally decided to walk the eighteen miles to Mechanicville. The blazing western sun was beginning to relent as Walter came up to the Delaware & Hudson Railroad station at Mechanicville. The threatened thundershower had not materialized, for which he was grateful, although the heat had taken a heavy toll of his strength. The fare to Cohoes was twenty-nine cents, and he could check his wheel on the ticket. The train was due in a few miutes, and when it rushed into sight and slid to a stop, it was a tired young man who settled back into the grateful comfort of the plush cushions, The day was done when, crunching, jerking, and whistling, the train rolled into the Cohoes station. The lamps were lighted and the streets were wet from the shower that had come and gone. It was only three miles to Troy, and after a much cooler and pleasanter walk, despite his weariness, than he had experienced during the day, Walter arrived at his little room. He found the landlady much alarmed at his not appearing sooner. When he told her his experience of the day, and she realized that he had no money to buy supper, she invited him to sit at her table— an invitation which Walter most thankfully accepted. The next morning Walter reported promptly at the bank. The cashier sent for him immediately. "Mr. Nelson, you were not here yesterday, and as we didn't have any word from you, we concluded that you had left us, so we hired a man in your place." (To be continued.)