[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings James H. Anderson The Russian soviet government made heavy gains into Central Asia during February. Anti-cigarette laws were passed in February by Utah, Idaho, and four other states. Panama and Costa Rica had a one-day war in February, then settled down to arbitration. Oil fields were extensively located in Utah in February, and heavy expenditures will be made in well-drilling. A woman speaker of a legislative body, Mary Ellen Smith, is the record of the British Columbia legislature in 1921. The late Grand Duchess Elizabeth of Russia and her maid were taken to Jerusalem and buried there in February. Ireland saw increased turmoil in March, with Great Britain more determined than ever to put down the rebellicn, Two great national Democratic leaders died recently, Henry Watterson, on Feb. 16, and Champ Clark on March 2. Women jurors were impaneled in a London, England, court in January, for the first time in British history. The California abductors of Mrs. Gladys Witherell, who hoped to get a money reward, were given a 10-year-to-life imprisonment sentence. King Nicholas of Montenegro died in France on Feb, 28. The Versailles peace conference merged Montenegro into the Serbian nation. Turkey's resistance to the Serves treaty has caused France and Great Britain, because of self-interest, to recede from their former stern demands. 
 Great Britain, on Feb. 4, asked the League of Nations council to give that nation entire power in Palestine, on behalf of the Jews. The request is likely to be granted. The Pennsylvania University has sent an expedition to explore and excavate at Beth-shan, one of the oldest Bible cities, thus bringing still farther to the front the favorable public interest in Palestine. The Lever food act was declared unconstitutional by the United States Supreme court on February 28, thus disposing of the prosecutions against Utah sugar companies and officials. Women in England still insist that they should be entitled to degrees in the famous Cambridge university upon qualifying therefor, and doubtless will be winners in the end. Warren G. Harding of Ohio and Calvin Coolidge of Massachusetts were formally elected President and Vice-President, ' respectively, on February 9, and took office March 4th. German statesmen now claim that they were induced to accept the Versailles treaty by the promise of President Wilson that the United States would extend credit to Germany, which promise is not fulfilled. Railway companies in the United States were forbidden in February, by the government railway labor board, to reduce wages, so they were compelled to lower expenses by the discharge of large numbers of employes. Boston, Mass., preachers are practically a unit in demanding that women wear higher neck ruffles and longer skirts. They assert that in the present styles of dress young women have become mere temptations. The new immigration law passed by Congress admits 354,000 persons from Europe into this country annually, but the percentage as arranged brings most of them from the more objectionable southern Europe nations. The Knights of Columbus, who are a Catholic body of men, noting the trend of anti-Semitism in the United States, and its reaction, have come out against it, stating that persecution of one religious body may justify persecution of any other. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 225 Miriam Rubin, the 8-year-old Waukegan, IIls., girl who talked constantly for 212 hours in February, suddenly ceased the strange phenomenon, and became normal, and physicians attending think she is now cured. Lieut. Wm. D. Corey, aviator, flew across the continent from San Diego, Cal., to Jacksonville, Fla., in February, his time being 22 hours 32 minutes, or more than 98 miles per hour. Giggling girls, busy wives, mothers of small children, and immature women "who rouge and powder but do not think," were barred from jury duty by a New Jersey court, in January. The Jewish colony which sought establishment under the Piute irrigation project in Utah, now asks reimbursement from the State for its lands, to the amount of about $11,000, through legislative enactment. The Far West (Mo.) temple site is included in an 80-acre tract of land purchased by the "Mormon" Church, as are also over 60 lots of the original survey owned by the Saints who were driven from Caldwell county. The Long Beach, Cal., board of education, on the recommendation of a woman professor, Mrs. Anna M. Gilbert, has barred from the high school there girls who persist in wearing immodest clothing. _ Lord Reading, whose name is Rufus Daniel Isaacs, and who is an orthodox Jew who attained the distinction of being lord chief justice of Great Britain, has been made viceroy of India, to govern more than 300,000,000 people, most of whom are Mohammedans. So that Jews now govern Egypt, Palestine and India. The American Federation of Labor, at its session on Feb. 23, made a list of demands that would destroy present constitutional government in the United States. One was that courts could not pass on the constitutionality of laws enacted by Congress, An Arizona expedition of seven persons is about to start on an expedition to trace the route of the ancient American Indians from the south into Arizona. Mrs. Margaret Ricketson, sister of Andrew Carnegie, gave $2,000 toward defraying the expenses of the expedition, 
 Henry J. Ryan, national chairman of the Americanization committee of the American Legion, says there are 8,000 disloyal teachers in the American public schools. That is not fresh news to close observers. J. W. Ruby, a Boston, Mass., importer, in discussing legislation before the Massachusetts legislature, pointed out that women were becoming less valuable than men in industry from the fact that lately they are trying to show their gene superiority over men. The Typographical Record, a representative labor journal, said, in February: "The employers should thank their lucky stars, or whatever they worship, that we are not sufficiently militant to demand the six-hour day at this time." This was on a labor-union demand for a 44-hour week. On the other hand, employers are insisting that reasonable production in America calls for a 50-hour week. France is the chief nation crowding Germany to the terms of the treaty of Versailles, to the extent that the statesmen of other nations fear an ultimate renewal of the war, hence join in the pressure to convince the Teuton that all will combine against him. For the facts are inescapable, either Germany must pay the losses of the war or France will have to pay them. Germany made the war and saw to it that none of the fighting or devastation took place on German soil. France bore the burden, must she now pay for Germany's treachery? On March 8, allied troops occupied Rhine cities to hold additional German territory as one of the penalties for Germany's failure to meet the allied reparation demands. King George the Fifth, of Great Britain, is a descendant in the direct line from King David of Israel, is the announcement made at the recent British Israel Congress at London, Eng., by Herbert Garrison, secretary-general of the British Israel World Federation; he also stated that the proof was in a London public building. The line of descent comes through Queen Victoria, and not through the prince-consort. At the same meeting, Major-General C. A. Hadfield declared that Great Britain was: doing work allocated to Israel, and that the British or Saxon race were of the stock of Israel—though not all of Judah, from whom the Lost Tribes, known in history as Israel, were separated. If interested people would examine a 200 year old book in our Utah Genealogical Library they would not only see this royal line but all other royal lines then found in Europe and Asia.