[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT TEACHING Morgan Stake At the union meeting held in December, the following instructions were given to the Relief Society teachers, by the stake officers: Successful teaching is one of the most important matters that can claim the attention of Relief Society teachers. As a rule, the societies that have the live, wide-awake, intelligent teachers are in the front ranks in their activities. Sacrament meetings as well as Relief Society meetings are better attended, and there is a good feeling among the members. Teaching well done is worth while and is its own reward. Don't put off until tomorrow the teaching that should be done today. Don't talk about the weather or gossip about the neighbors. Don't try to teach without the Spirit of the Lord to guide you. Don't talk about sacred things, or those holding positions of trust in the Church, in a manner that will create doubt and skepticism in the minds of the people. The gospel will shed bright rays of light and hope on every circumstance and situation in life. Always seek divine assistance in the performance of duty. The topic assigned for Relief Society teachers for January and February was "Prayer." (It is natural to pray; the inclination to do so is born in all men.) 1. Family prayers; 2. Secret prayers; 3. Set forms of prayer finally become empty sentences and should be avoided; 4. In prayer, ask for the things really needed; e. G., Lord's prayer. South Davis Stake At the meeting of the stake and local officers' meeting held in January, the work of the Relief Society teacher was featured, and the problems of Relief Society teachers discussed as follows: 1. The call of the Relief Society teachers and what it means. 2, What is the usual preparation of the Relief Society teacher? 3. What influence does the Relief Society teacher carry into the home? 4. After our visit, do we as Relief Society teachers feel satisfied with our efforts? 5. If a Relief Society teacher is not satisfied with her efforts, where is the fault? 6. If a Relief Society teacher's efforts are not satisfactory, how may the difficulty be overcome? 7. How shall we estimate the labors of the Relief Society teachers? The fol- 
 Lowing outline for the year, in printed form, was given to each of the Relief Society teachers in the stake: Responsibilities of teachers: A worth-while message, given in the spirit of prayer and love for every home. February—Patience. Lst Romans, 15:1-8, Discuss a problem wherein patience has been glorified. March—Obedience. Gospel Doctrine, pages 129, 263, 272, by Joseph F. Smith. April—Prayer. Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed; S. S. Song Book. How to pray; Gospel Doctrine, pp. 375-281. May—Faith. James 5:14-15; Doc. And Cov. June—Word of Wisdom. Doc. And Cov. 89. Vitality of Mormonism, page 214. Gospel Doctrine, p. 300. September—Charity. Gospel Doctrine, p. 294; 1 Cor. 13. "Among the pitfalls in our way, the best of us walk blindly, so let's beware, watch and pray, and judge each other kindly." October— Duty. Duties to man. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 68:25 to end of chapter. Gospel Doctrine, page 187. November—Our Children. Gospel Doctrine, pages 353, 365, 371, 369, 366 and 355. December—Gratitude. That man may last, but never lives, who much receives, but never gives; whom none can love, whom none can thank, creation's blot, creation's blank. Gospel Doctrine, pages 328 to 330. Read, The Lord is my Light. S. S. Song Book, page 121. Fremont Stake A letter has just been received from the secretary of the Fremont stake, giving the following very interesting account of a little play given at a recent union meeting held in this stake: "We are making a special effort to make the work of our Relief Society teachers more efficient, and in order to show them more effectively the proper way to do real teaching, we presented a little play showing the three types of teachers. The first set of teachers who came in showed the gossips, who have no special subjects to talk about but are ready to talk of anything that happens to present itself to their minds. The lady visited had a boy with a bad case of tonsilitis and she was very much worried over his condition. So the time was chiefly spent in talking about tonsilitis and its bad effects; how dangerous it is in a great many cases to have the tonsils removed. These teachers did, however, invite the mother to Relief Society meetings, and told her about the lessons and teachers. Then they gave a full explanation of the teachers book and its uses. This set was followed by the indifferent type who come unprepared to do or give anything. They knew nothing about the Relief Society meetings, because they seldom attend. They subscribed for the Magazine, but had not time to read it, and could not therefore tell what the lessons would be during the month. In fact, they NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 213 just made a little call so that they could hand in their report, as their president kad called for a 100 per cent teachers' report. The last pair were the Ideal Teachers who came spiritually prepared to teach. They were cheerful and tactful as well as humble. When they were asked anything regarding Relief Society work they were prepared to answer and tell all about the beauties of Relief Society work. They told about the subjects for lesson work, the teachers, the Relief Society Magazine, and the many things it publishes that are helpful to mothers. Then, when the opportune time came, they presented their subject, Faith, and discussed with their hostess the need of faith in God, faith in ourselves, and faith in our fellowmen. They gave the little mother on whom they called something to think about during the coming weeks and had also given her a desire to attend Relief Society meetings and to have the teachers call again." Annual Membership Dues Among the early stakes to send in 100 per cent annual membership dues were: Benson stake, Ogden stake, and the new Garfield stake. Bear River Stake At the close of last year, the Bear River stake made an excursion to the Logan temple, with 97 Relief Society women. Two hundred eighty women, who could not attend, each contributed fifty cents for temple purposes, which totaled $140. Nebo Stake. At the annual Relief Society stake conference, held at the close of the year in Spanish Fork, there were 500 members in attendance. This response on the part of the Relief Society. Women was only equalled by the enthusiasm of the stake officers, who-had prepared a spiritual feast for those who came. It is the custom in this stake for the Relief Society workers to visit the County Infirmary frequently. The Christmas visit this year was made the Thursday before Christmas, when an excellent program was given to the inmates of the infirmary and delicious refreshments served. It was hard to tell who enjoyed this visit most, the officers of the Relief Society or those who were the recipients of this thoughtful attention. The Christmas Seal Sale in Nebo stake amounted to $141. The success of the sale was due largely to the energetic work of Mrs. Julia Hancock, a member of the stake board who acted as chairman. European Mission At the annual celebration of the organization of the Relief Society, held in Dresden last December, there were 500 women 
 Present. Two hundred of these are members of the organization, and the rest were visitors and investigators. Northern States Mission In a letter from Miss Bertha Thurgood, a missionary, we learn of the great interest which is taken by the missionary girls in the Relief 'Society work in the mission, where they are not only called upon to teach and instruct, but where they are often asked to preside over the Relief Society branches. Miss Thurgood says that the beautiful Christmas entertainment given at the Mission House, in Chicago, by President and Mrs. Winslow Smith for the missionary boys and girls was one of the real joys of the winter. Forty missionaries were gathered at the home where the real Christmas spirit of love and good will permeated the whole gathering. Union Stake Since the Union stake conference, which was held in September, the stake board members have visited all of the wards in the stake except one, holding conferences and giving instructions in the various phases of Relief Society work. As a result of this "work, the wards report an increase in interest and attendance and have expressed the wish that branch conferences might be held every three months. Stake board meetings are held weekly, when business matters and policies of the organization are discussed. Japanese Mission In a letter from President Joseph H. Stimpson we learn that there are no Relief Society organizations as yet in the Japanese mission. They have one organization, however, taken care of by the native members, which they call the Mutual Improvement Association, and while it does not follow the work as outlined by that organization at home, it takes in all of the members of the Church, old and young. Star Valley Stake Although the wards in this stake are widely scattered, a stake and local officers' meeting, or union meeting, is held regularly each month in connection with the stake priesthood meeting. Some of the ward officers live a distance of twenty-seven miles from Afton, where these meetings are held, and in the winter, when the snow is always deep and the weather very disagreeable, Relief Society officers face many hardships in order to attend, and yet the attendance is nearly as good in winter as it is in summer. Although this stake is isolated, being fifty NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 215 miles off the railroad, still the Relief Society women feel that they are up to date in their work and they rejoice in the fact that all of the members are loyal to the Relief Society cause and are enthusiastic in their efforts. At the last union meeting the Relief Society stake board served luncheon to one hundred thirty ward officers with a few members of the priesthood. A very pleasant hour was thus spent socially. The stake board meetings are held monthly, the Wednesday prior to the union meeting, when stake problems are discussed and preparation made for the stake and local officers' meeting. Eastern States Mission: In 1920 a number of reorganizations took place in the branches of the Eastern States mission. At these reorganizations, Relief Society presidents were appointed as follows: Scranton, Pennsylvania, president, Afton Allred; Brooklyn, New York, president, Sarah A. McCune; New Haven, Connecticut, president, Rhey Sulham; Philadelphia, Pa., president, Carry Obendor- © fer; New Bedford, Mass., president, Hilda Roberts; Fairmont, W. Va., president, May Sloter; New York, N. Y., president, Stella Paul Bradford; Huntington, W. Va., president, Arena Ferrel; Scranton, Pa., president, Mary Montgomery. On the 22nd of September a Relief Society was organized in Fairview, with Mrs. Mollie Stoops as president. _ Sevier Stake: On Sunday, January 30, in a general priesthood meeting held in Richfield, Sevier stake was divided into three stakes as follows: Sevier, comprising Richfield, Glenwood, Venice, Burrville and Koosharem; South Sevier, comprising Monroe, Annabella, Inverury, Elsinore, Joseph, Sevier, and Marysvale; North Sevier, comprising Sigurd, Vermillion, Aurora, Salina and Redmond. At a special conference held in Salina, on the afternoon of January 30, Mrs. Minnis S. Dastrup was sustained as Relief Society president of North Sevier stake, with Elizabeth Thalman, first counselor, and Lydia Z. Cowley, stake secretary, second counselor to be selected later. At a special conference, held in Montoe on the afternoon of January 30, Mrs. Matilda B. Ross, of joseph, was sustained as Relief Society president of the South Sevier stake, with Laura Murray, first counselor, and Matilda B. Parker, second counselor. Mrs, Lily B. Gledhill was retained as president of the Sevier stake. Notes Mrs. Lydia Harris White, of Beaver, is another of our lovely aged women, who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and 
, who tells wonderful and interesting stories, concerning the old days in Nauvoo. She is hale and hearty, at her home in Beaver, and we congratulate her. The gospel makes for longevity and happy living, from all accounts. Bishop William Wood of the Twenty-fourth Ward, has a mother now in the hospital to mend a dislocated hip, which resulted from a recent fall. She is ninety-six years old; still active and bright, and has been in the Church over one half of a century. Juarez Stake 'Through an oversight, in the January Magazine, there was a statement that stake conferences and conventions had been held in all stakes during 1920, except Juarez. The fact of the matter is that both a stake conference and a very successful stake leadership institute were held in Juarez stake. The idea intended te be conveyed' in the note was that the General Board members had visited all the stakes except Juarez. This department offers apology for this oversight. THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS Vera Lee Kearl The Rocky mountains grey and old With canyon, cliff, and valley, And towering peaks rugged and bold Hidden by snows that dally; The flowering shrub, the spicy pine And nook for happy lovers; The frothing streams, a joyful find Of rainbow trout and flowers; The talking brooks, the rustling trees, And dancing perfumed flowers— Fling joy and laughter in the breeze From nooks and crooks and bowers. The cloudless blue of Heaven's dome O'er all God's work is shining, From snow-clad peak to cabin home There is not one a-pining.