[Vol18 | July 1931 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Notes Field]
Notes to the Field Suggestions to Visiting Teacher Class Leaders HE greatest peril in the world today is the lack of spirituality.

Devout Christians everywhere are recognizing the need of a reaction toward religion.

They feel the urgent necessity of spiritual leadership to guide them through the wilderness of modern unbelief.

Latter-day Saints must be spiritual.

Our Gospel is the "glad tidings'—the light —for which the world is groping, but cannot see.

We have the opportunity, and it is our duty to be the great spiritual force on earth.

To be worthy of the name we have assumed we must be untiring in our vigilance to perfect the world and prepare the way for our Master and herald His second coming.

The women of the Church have a large share of the responsibility in this work.

This is especially true of the Relief Society visiting teacher.

Her work may seem humble, but it is vital.

To her is given the important privilege of entering into the joy and siuctess, the sorrow and distress of those upon whom she calls in the intimate relation of the family circle.

She has the opportunity to share their happiness and re-~ lieve their suffering.

The teacher has power and influence because she has the rare chance to translate precept into action.

Kindly, sympathetic understanding—that quality commonly called tact—is a necessary attribute of the teacher.

Special education is required in many phases of our work, but with the teacher the important thing is love.

The ability to radiate peace and good cheer is the most needful qualification.

The nature of the visit of the teacher invites the confidence of others and entitles her to that confidence.

If she has the spirit of Christ people will naturally confide in her, and by that same token she will keep the trust sacred.

Jesus loved mankind better than He loved Himself.

All He has asked of us is to love others as much as we love ourselves.

If we did that think what it would mean!

We would be considerate of the feelings of others.

We would be happy in their success and advancement.

We would hide their weaknesses and faults.

Wie would guard their unhappy secrets as we would our own if placed in similar circumstances.

We would observe the Golden Rule.

We would keep the second great commandment—we would love our neighbor as ourself.

Qk are two warring forces in human nature, Hatred and Love.

Hate is jealousy, fault-finding, bitterness, gossiping, self-aggrandizement.

Love is kindness, sympathy, generosity, tolerance, patience.

Hate destroys.

Love builds and strengthens.

Hate is the spirit of Evil.

Love is the spirit of God.

Every word, deed, or thought that is unworthy of Jesus is destructive.

Love is the only force that can defeat hate.

To interpret fully the meaning of the work of our Lord it is necessary to accept the rules of: conduct by which He lived.

Jesus, being a God had all intelligence and power.

Yet, according to all the records of His life, these are not the attributes which He stresses.

His outstanding characteristics in the flesh are sympathy, humility, love.

A devout and constant study of His life, cannot but make one accept love as the guiding force of one's existence.

If every teacher will think of herself as an ambassador of Christ, carrying the message of His sacrifice, His kindness, 418 His forgiveness, and His understanding she will appreciate the sacredness of her calling.

She will rejoice that she has been called to do so great a work.

It is this thought that suggested the precepts of Jesus as desirable texts for the teachers' topics during the coming year.

To carry out this idea in the most successful way it will be necessary for the teachers to make a devoted and somewhat comprehensive study of His life.

T is the desire of the Genera!

Board that the teachers use the topic in their monthly visit, even though opportunity does not permit of an elaboration of the idea; that the text at least be left in every home.

We suggest that the teachers put into effect the admonition of the Savior to His disciples: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house'." Luke 10:5. It may not be possible nor appropriate to speak the words aloud, - but if the thought is sufficiently potent it will affect.

The atmosphere of the home.

We ask you to accept this as the watchword of the Relief Society Visiting Teachers.

We beg you to urge the teachers to read a few chapters of the New Testament every day, that they may - come to know and love our Savior more tenderly; that they may pray constantly for inspiration in their work; that they may feel His divine presence as they enter every home; that they may carry with them and leave behind them His spirit of comfort and cheer.

We entreat you, sisters, to strive earnestly to make the life of Jesus our Redeemer become a tender, vital, moving force in the lives of those with whom you labor.

We pray that the work of the teachers may be blessed, that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mission of the Latter-day Saints may soon be consummated, and the world be made ready for the coming of our Master and our Lord.

Our First Obligation While we should support the bishops and do all in our power to aid in building meeting houses and chapels, we hear of some Relief Soci- "eties who become so interested in raising money for ward buildings that they neglect their charity work, which is their first obligation.

One Relief Society that proudly boasted of raising several thousand dollars for the meetine house has no charity fund whatever, and the charity work in that ward is reported in a very much neglected condition.

Let us learn to put first things first.

Tree Planting We would like each Stake to send in to the General Secretary the number of trees they have planted this spring.

Cooperate With State Board of Health It is estimated that 10,000 of the 16,000 mothers who died in 1930 from conditions attendant upon childbirth could have been spared had they received proper attention.

It is estimated that 30,000 babies died in the United States in 1930 from preventable causes.

The Relief Society is desirous of doing ail in its power to decrease this distressing mortality.

Relief Society presidents in Utah should get in touch with Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner, State Capitol, Salt Lake City, and have literature which he has for free distribution sent to expectant mothers on the care of the mother and the care of the baby.

We presume that other State Boards of Health have similar literature for distribution.

Notes from the Field Swedish Mission: (ee office is in receipt of a most interesting history of the Swedish Mission Relief Societies.
