The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. V—THE "GROWN-UP" PERIOD "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books."* —William Fredrick Bigelow. ORE important than the M training of the body or the education of the mind, is the development of character. This is not the place to debate ethical theories, but it is the place to call attention to the fact that character is developed by instilling in children sound views of conduct and by strengthening the proper motives. With grow children we can't be too rigid about what they read. We can't hold the reins too tight, but we can read with them and poke fun with them at the extravagances of poor stories. Even well-brought-up boys are likely to get the lazy-minded series habit unless they have some antidote. If you and your daughter have read together enough that she stops, voluntarily in her reading to say, "Oh, mother, listen to this," if you have made her want to share the delights of a book with you, you have taken a long step. It is infinitely better that your training provide her with a capacity for the enjoyment of literature, than that the schools teach her a technical knowledge of a few pieces. Occasionally, a parent's conscience prods him into saying, '""What's that you're reading, a novel? I wish you would read something worth while." When the child says, "What, for example?" the parent stammers, "Oh, your history, or chemistry, or literature, anything worth while. *Courtesy "Good Housekeeping Magazine." Your grades aren't so good that you can waste time on stories." When you feel like that, think back upon what has been done with novels; the nation-wide effects of the novels of Dickens and George Eliot; the pleasures found in reading the stories of Arnold Bennett, Edna Ferber and Willa Cather. Be careful not to speak slightingly of novels lest you skip some of the best literature we have. Read with your children. Discuss books with them and so make reading a family interest and a family pleasure. NE of the best reasons for reading is for companionship! In books you often come across someone who understands you, who speaks your language and thinks your thoughts; who has troubles and solves them, temptations and overcomes them. They act as an anchor to you. Though they are not your special troubles, it is the struggle and the way it is carried through that counts. Take "Jane Eyre" for example. Read it again with this thought in mind. Jane Eyre was plain in physical appearance. Most heroines are beautiful, but the average girl is not, and so your daughter immediately finds a sympathetic soul. The story is wild and romantic, but through all the tempests Jane Eyre manages to keep steering straight ahead. Read "Mill on the Floss" again with your daughter for the loves and griefs, rebellions and question- THE CHILDREN'S READING ings of one girlhood, and incidentally, for many of the emotions your own daughter has felt but hasn't known how to express. Most people in their teens are helped more by fiction than by biography. Most adults are helped more by biography. In novels you can know what people are thinking, feeling, wishing. 'This you do not know of the people you meet. We may learn, vicariously, through people in books, if they are real people. And that is what life is—learning by experience. It is worth while for your son to live through the experiences of other people as we do in such books as "Kidnapped," "Moby Dick," or "The Man Who Did the Right Thing." "THERE is no cut and dried rule for the choice of books. They are supposed to prepare us for the life we will live. And who knows in this changing world, what it will be for our children, now in their teens. But one thing we do know. Truth is truth from one generation to another, and a good novel will always tell the truth. It may do this in many different ways. It may deal with yesterday, today, or totnorrow; 319 it may deal with good people or bad, but it is good so long as it deals with them honestly. In reading love stories—and young people should read them—let us select novels with intense but splendid emotions, which show that life may be full of splendor and romance. A few intense things such as "The Cloister and the Hearth," will take the taste out of the next worthless book. HE finest literature is the simplest, the most vivid and vital.