1. That the use of this material be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day.
2. That this matter of nutrition is worthy of serious consideration by the wards of the Church as it is timely and worth while.
3. That if any additional material or any other subject be selected by the wards it must be presented by the ward Work and Business leader to the stake for its approval and at any event any subject selected must be on some phase of homemaking. Book reviews or any program on any subject other than home making are out of order on Work and Business day.
4. That the stake Work and Business leader will be responsible for obtaining the pamphlets for her various wards and obtain them early enough to distribute at the Union meeting preceding the day they will be utilized.
5. That if this material on nutrition is used in the wards that the treatment of it be considered in an informal manner with the idea of having an interchange of the thoughts and opinions of all the women present, rather than presenting the material as a formal lesson.
6. That in wards where this material is considered the ward counselor in charge of Work and Business and the ward Work and Business leader consult, and conjointly choose a woman to lead in this informal discussion on Work and Business day. A different woman will be chosen to lead the discussion each month, thus distributing the responsibility and bringing more women into activity. We suggest that each of these women chosen be asked to attend the Union meeting where the pamphlets on her subject for discussion will be distributed.
7. That if the wards in a stake choose to discuss this subject of nutrition the stake leader of Work and Business give it some consideration at Union meeting and the time and emphasis be left to the discretion of the stake leader.
PLANNING FOR SOCIABILITY
Nellie O. Parker
Sociability is an important gateway to an abundant life. The more we use this gate and extend our friendly contacts the more we enlarge our world.
"The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide."
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Friendship is one of the sweetest things in the world. The intellectual and spiritual things we share with others make us richer. The more we give away of this spiritual wealth the richer we are.
Social recreation of any type that helps us enjoy fellowship with one another and gives an opportunity for growth, opportunity to be and become one's self, and to have joy in living is very desirable. It is fundamental to our nature to crave companionship. We get pleasure from doing things together. Even hard work is enjoyable when done in a group?for example, a ward dinner or community fruit canning. We experience recreation of spirit in singing and playing together, and when we share food with one another we obtain a completeness of sociability that nothing else seems to give.
We should aim to make our Relief Society contacts as friendly as possible. Let us think about what others are interested in and try to make them happy. This is a vital element of true etiquette. Assign certain members to welcome everyone who comes to meeting. Strangers and visitors should be given special attention and introduced at least to those by whom they are seated. Let someone look after their comfort and see that they enjoy themselves.
We recommend that Work and Business day be made a happy social day, a sewing circle linked to a party spirit with an atmosphere of informality, insuring free and easy discussion and a feeling of friendly cooperation. Secure constructive conversation by directing it in proper channels to correlate with the project in hand. See that everyone feels she is a vital part of the organization. Plan the social hour so that everyone takes her turn in helping when luncheon or refreshments are served. Give thought to planning the social hour; draw on your originality; vary your menus; have little surprises and glorify the common things, but keep them simple and within the reach of the frugal purse. Keep abreast of the times.
If members, especially leaders, will radiate their enthusiasm and give their best thought to Relief Society, planning ahead and looking forward to it as one of the big things of their lives, they will stimulate interest and enthusiasm in others. Everyone will want Relief Society; it will gain in prestige. Those who work in the organization love it enthusiastically. Our problem is to give everyone something to do. The good leader will divide work, getting as many to participate as possible. Make an important occasion of the installation of new members, and also the welcoming back of inactive ones into active service again. Let someone sponsor the prospective member and make a little talk in her behalf, telling of her interests, talents and achievements. During the social hour the new members can be the honored guests. Everyone should meet them and extend a friendly hand in welcoming them into the Society.
For festive days plan decorations that are typically "our own." We have great ideals and traditions, we have only to work out our own symbols. Let us encourage originality and artistic talent. Let us make Relief Society very alluring and desirable, remembering that those who serve Relief Society most, love it best.
 
MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT
Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
SERVICE AND SELLING
By Vida Fox Clawson
A good magazine representative must first have the ambition to place the Magazine in the home of every Latter-day Saint. She must think about it. Why should it go into the home of every Latter-day Saint? In the first place, the very fact that it is there testifies that the home is a home of culture and the mother discriminating in her taste. The fact that it is there increases the faith of the children. Even if they don't read it, it is good for them to have the Magazine in the home.
This is a day when the good and the bad are so closely intertwined that it is difficult to choose the right. For example, we listen to a glorious radio rendition of Aida or some grand opera, and we are uplifted, then we realize that the sponsors are perhaps cigarette advertisers. This advertising is very subtle but very effective. Few of us realize the effect of it. After months of such advertising, we become used to the thing which at first shocks us. We say, "Well, I guess it's all right. I guess it isn't as harmful as we thought it was." We grow less and less rebellious.
The same thing happens to the boy who learns to admire the editor of a magazine through reading his editorials, and then some day perhaps he sees a picture of this man with a cigarette in his hand. The boy, if young and brought up according to Mormon ideals, is shocked. But he begins this process of thinking, "Well, I guess it's not so bad after all," and finally gets to the point where he thinks it is not so wrong to smoke.
The more magazines advertising tobacco, liquor and things of that kind which we have in our homes the more we need the as a supporting anchor, for it comes to us absolutely unpolluted, not only in its articles but in its advertising.
It is difficult these days to choose the right from the wrong. Right now you and I would have no definite convictions about this life and the life to come if we didn't feel that we are being led by divine leadership, inspired leadership. Those who have the publication of this Magazine in charge are inspired women. How grateful we should be to have this Magazine come into our homes and how eager we should be to carry the news to others.
A good representative should feel it just as much a mission to sell the Magazine and place it in every Latter-day Saint home as any missionary who goes out into the field.
Let us take a peek into some of the Magazines. Suppose there is a boy who is in his early teens and is just a little bit wayward. His companions are not always what his mother wants them to be. He picks up the Magazine and sees this one little sentence, "No man can be provident of his time who is not prudent in the choice of his company." This makes an impression upon the mind of that boy and he becomes more careful in the selection of his companions. If you had been the representative to place the Magazine in that home, don't you think you would have rendered a real service?
Suppose you have a neighbor who for some reason cannot make ends meet, nevertheless she buys the , and a few months later when she meets you, she says, "You know when I bought that Magazine, I made a real investment. In the September number there was an unusually easy and good recipe for whole wheat bread. I never had baked before. It was so delicious and the family liked it so well that I just formed the habit of making my own bread. It's just unbelievable, but that little Magazine has paid for itself over and over again with just that one recipe." Wouldn't you be thrilled?
Now suppose that some one, as I did, came across the title, "Home Scriptural Reading," and thought, "We don't do enough of that in our home, but we are going to gather around the fireside every day and read the scriptures." Wouldn't you be happy if you had been the woman fortunate enough to place the Magazine in that home?
"By their fruits ye shall know them." This is just as true of magazines as it is of persons. What kind of women read the s? They are the salt of the earth. Reading the helps every person to form a better life.
"By their fruits ye shall know them." What kind of women are they who publish the ? They are the salt of the earth. What a privilege it is for you and for me to come in contact with such women, and I sometimes think that they let us look into their souls much more distinctly through their writing than through any other source. In the January issue of this year two women whom I have known and loved for a long time have permitted me to see both of them better?Mary Connelly Kimball, the Editor of the Magazine for a long time, and Sister Talmage, a constant reader and an occasional contributor. These two women are the type of women whom we contact through the Magazine. It is a great blessing.
God bless the women who gather together and bind the lessons, the editorials, the stories, the poems, month after month, into a magazine worthy of our best selling efforts.
ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Rose H. Neeley?Ensign Stake
When called to work on the Stake Board, my President told me my work would be with the Magazine. After careful checking with the wards, we found the subscription list low and felt that we had work ahead of us in building it up. Each chain is as strong as its weakest link and we had no desire to be the weak link in our organization.
The ward Agents were called together in Union meeting and plans made. We felt that we must become fully acquainted with the contents of the Magazine in order to present it intelligently to our subscribers. We arranged a program which was very helpful to us, and which we still follow. We have roll call which is answered by a verse or quotation taken from the Magazine, then an article, story or poem given by a member. This helps in our study of the Magazine. We have reports on what each ward is doing in regard to renewals, etc. We have discussions, and study instructions given us by the General Board.
Our aim is for each ward to go over 100 per cent each year. When we began this work we had less than 50 per cent of our members taking the Magazine. When our 1937 drive was completed we had a stake percentage of 96, with six wards over the top and the other two wards on the 75 per cent roll. We have two wards that have gone over the top each year for the past six years.
We thank our Heavenly Father for the help and inspiration He has given us; also our Stake Board, ward officers, and members who have so loyally supported us, and the ward Agents, fine, dependable sisters who work so faithfully throughout the year.
ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Clara B. Wright?Salt Lake Stake
As a group in Union meeting we have studied the pamphlet, "Instructions To Magazine Agents." We have spent several Union meetings in intensive study. By our first Union meeting we have prepared and handed to President Williams a year-round program. In February our Stake Secretary gives us the entire individual ward enrollments. As a group in Union meeting we take these figures by wards and analyze them to find out just how much work has to be done each month, as we feel that it takes twelve months to accomplish our work. By carefully watching subscriptions we are able to secure large percentages.
A yearly report is compiled by the Stake at the close of the year and on the day that we make our awards in Union meeting this report is handed to the ward Magazine Representative who in turn takes the report to her President. We have found this has been a stimulus for effort the next year.
To illustrate: The Seventeenth Ward has an enrollment of 175 for 1938. Their total 1937 Magazine subscriptions were 123. Since , they have secured ten new subscriptions which makes a total of 133 subscriptions. 175 total enrollment minus 133 subscriptions equals 42 subscriptions to obtain in order to reach 100 per cent. From March to October is six months, and 42 divided by 6 equals 7 new subscriptions to be obtained each month. Of course we must not lose one active subscription. To guard against this we carry a pocket note book record of all subscriptions.
Special ward activities were used in achieving the goal. In one ward the President worked with the Representative. By interesting non-members of the Relief Society in the Magazine and by receiving small contributions here and there they were able to place 11 subscriptions in homes where the Magazine had not been before. The Relief Society gave eight subscriptions to retired Visiting Teachers from money taken from the General Fund.
In another ward the President and Magazine Representative called for volunteer service during the summer months in the cause of Magazine work. Another ward gave as a Christmas gift a year's Magazine subscription to each of the six oldest members of their organization.
In several of our wards the Presidency and Magazine Representatives have gone out in the interest of increased membership and the Magazine and have been more than successful.
In three years through these and other activities we have been able to raise our percentage from 21 per cent to 85 per cent, and we feel that it has been worth while.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
KEYNOTES TO SUCCESS
By Marcia K. Howells
One's best effort produces happiness, and usually makes for success. One Magazine agent traveled seventy-five miles in one day to visit three families and found them eager for the Magazine. Another took fruit and vegetables from those who could not pay cash. She also reported an exchange of work, such as washing or cleaning, for subscriptions.
Realizing the privilege of making friends and influencing other lives overcomes obstacles. "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heaven."
Quoting from Magazine agents:
"You have to work enthusiastically, efficiently, and unselfishly."
"This year I obtained three subscriptions that I have been working on for six years. It takes real perseverance and lots of walking. I am willing to go a long distance and spend a lot of time to get one subscription. I love the work."
"I've visited returned missionaries; in every case they were glad to send the Magazine to friends in the mission field."
From Alaska: "I received the sample copies of the Magazine. I loaned them and they did the work. I didn't care to be the only one in 'Uncle Sam's Attic' enjoying our wonderful Magazine."
One of the missions reports: "I have in mind a conference where some of the members have never had the opportunity of going to school and the has been a God-send to them. They have learned to do much of their reading from it."
In the Australian Mission, where 337? per cent was obtained: "I wrote letters to members 1300 miles south and 1800 miles north." This representative reported one fourteen-year-old girl as subscribing for two aged people; also a fifteen-year-old investigator who purchased the Magazine for the Sidney Library in addition to her own subscription.
The Magazine has so many uses. It radiates the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. Read the Magazine for its stimulating effect as well as for information and inspiration.
THE MAGAZINE IN THE MISSION
By Lewella R. Christiansen?Texas Mission
The Magazine is an effective aid in missionary work, especially in teaching women of the world the practical, cultural and spiritual sides of Mormonism. It is a real missionary. Sometimes women of other beliefs are hesitant to read the regular missionary tracts and pamphlets but are attracted by the poems, stories, lessons and articles of the Magazine. In this way the Gospel truths are presented in an indirect manner which makes an appeal, and a simple foundation is laid for the missionaries to build upon.
In one of the branches in Louisiana, we have a Sister whose husband is in the paper business and also mayor of the city. Recently she was asked to join some of the very fine clubs. She said to me, "I was asked to give a talk to my club and I found material for that talk in the and was highly complimented. I also gave a talk at the P. T. A. Meeting, again taking the material from the same source."
The distribution of sample copies helped prepare the way for the organization of the Gonzales Relief Society. Realizing that there were a great many things in it that would build people, I wondered what was the best way to have everyone read it. So I outlined a program, to be given solely by Relief Society women at a Sunday service. The talks were short and well prepared and based on carefully selected articles from the Magazine. The program proved interesting and uplifting and acquainted those who listened with the rich content of the Magazine, besides giving the most timid women a chance to participate.
The Magazine has been used: as gifts for birthdays and Christmas, and to bring cheer to those who are numbered among the shut-ins. One can receive comfort and culture from the Magazine. I think the Lord inspires those who write the wonderful material found in it.
 
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Belle S. Spafford, Editor
In order to give both large and small wards equal opportunity to participate in the awards given at April Conference we are now dividing the wards into groups according to enrollment. There will be three groups, A, B, C.
Group A will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 100 or more.
Group B will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive.
Group C will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment up to 49.
To the four Ward or Branch Agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all Ward or Branch Agents not receiving a bound volume, who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 per cent or above of their net enrollment, provided such subscription lists contain a minimum of 25 names, a one-year subscription to the will be awarded. In case the Agent does not want the free subscription herself, it may be sent to some one designated by her.
Report Forms. New report forms for both wards and stakes will be sent to the stake representatives this year. We are indebted to Sister Christina V. Wilson of Bonneville Stake for suggesting these very fine forms. They are self-explanatory and must be very carefully filled out. Only stake reports should be returned to this office. Ward reports should be filled out and sent to the stake in sufficient time for the stake representative to compile and send her report to our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be included on the Honor Roll published in December nor receive free subscriptions.
Enrollment figures are based on active, honorary, and inactive enrollment. The enrollment as of January 1, 1938, will be used in figuring 1938 percentages. These figures must be identical with those given in the Secretaries' annual report.
Order Blanks. Send subscriptions on order blanks, furnished by our office. Writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent, the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. Please state the month when the subscription is to begin. Failure to do this often causes duplication, the subscriber receiving two numbers of one or more issues.
Receipts. Keep all receipts sent by this office. These are a check for us and for you in case of errors. Complaints must be made within two months in order to be rectified.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Janet M. Thompson, Chairman
Great enthusiasm was manifested in the music program for the coming year 1938-1939. The response to the roll call indicated that there were very few stakes not represented. This was very gratifying and an index to the interest in improvement of music in the wards and stakes.
The chairman complimented the choristers on their devotion to the work and also gave suggestions which will prove helpful in future accomplishments.
A rallying song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Mrs. Beatrice F. Stevens, a member of the Music Committee of the General Board, was sung by a double trio from Ensign Stake directed by Mrs. Ruth Jensen Clawson. It was enthusiastically received. This song was composed as a "rallying song" to assist in our membership drive.
Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett presented the new songs to be learned during the year, stressing tone, phrasing, proper posture and breathing, and the memorizing of the words. Some of the new songs were sung by a group of Singing Mothers.
Renewed enthusiasm for good music in our organizations was the keynote of the Music Department.
The list of songs with serial numbers are as follows:
SONGS TO BE LEARNED FOR AUGMENTED CHORUS OF SINGING MOTHERS
SUGGESTIVE SONGS FOR USE IN THE STAKES
CORRELATION OF MUSIC TO LESSON MATERIAL
By Rose D. Ostler
Humanity everywhere is athirst for music. It might justly be called a holy cause, requiring a spirit of consecration. The field from which to gather song and music material is as broad as the field of music itself. Relief Society songs and music soften, glorify and feed the souls of our sisters. They add charm, a melodious background, and create a spiritual setting for the lessons.
In preparing for the use of songs in Relief Society, various plans have been carried out in Union meeting. It is suggested that stake music directors read very carefully the lessons before Union meeting and confer with the various class leaders as to the objectives of their lessons and secure suggestions for songs. The ward chorister may also be asked to read the lessons and confer with her ward class leaders and aid in bringing in suggestions for music to Union meeting. New songs may be introduced at this meeting. Write the words of the song on a blackboard, play the song as the preliminary music. After it has been played through once or twice many spontaneously join in the singing.
Hymns are always appropriate for the opening song of every ward Relief Society meeting. Especially do hymns and sacred music vitalize and beautify Theological lessons. Hymns are a treasure house of spiritual truth and beauty.
The songs our mothers and grandmothers used to sing can bring a wealth of joy to the Work and Business meeting, echoing the past. We find sweet music in the songs of long ago. Besides these lovely family songs, we may use some written by our women. This would be a fitting place for their inspired contributions.
A special music program suggests itself for the Literary lessons. Characters and the historical period in which the book was written provide suggestions. New songs of various types, solos, ensemble numbers, both vocal and instrumental, furnish a wealth of music material which may be used in the music department.
Lessons portrayed in the form of a tableau accompanied by music are very effective. Songs of our country and songs of home are appropriate for the Social Service lessons.
A typed outline given out each month at Union meeting, might include material to build a background of music for the chorister as well as for the lessons. Current musical events of the various wards, stories of the hymns and of the composers are interesting.
The calling of the chorister is a sacred one. To her falls the joy of bringing correlation of lesson and song, and of bringing the beauty that testifies to the reality of the spiritual life.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
Amy W. Evans, Chairman
President Louise Y. Robison was the first speaker in this department meeting. She briefly discussed the subject, "The Relief Society and Child Welfare," a subject very dear to her heart. The Relief Society has always given very special attention to child welfare in its study program and in its activities, stressing the Word of Wisdom, cooperating extensively with state and federal agencies in carrying forth the work. She concluded with an earnest appeal for women to put forth every effort in setting higher standards for this work.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
NUTRITION AND ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Dr. William McKay
As public health workers we are delighted to know that the mothers are devoting so much of their activities to the study and solution of vital health problems. By giving place on your program to the subject of nutrition and child welfare, I think I can safely assume that you, as representatives of the Social Welfare Department of the Relief Society of the Church, are convinced that throughout our state there is ample evidence among our children of the lack of proper nutrition. A study of the reports of the many health agencies and dental clinics showing the numbers of physical defects, the prevalence of malnutrition, and the very high percentage of our child population with carious teeth should be sufficient to convince anyone that education on the subject of nutrition is urgently needed.
The first question which naturally arises in our minds is, "What is the meaning of the word nutrition?" One of the best definitions I have found is that given by Sir Robert McCarrison who defined nutrition as the fundamental function on which the condition of the body, that is to say, health depends. It is not merely food, nor that which nourishes. Food is the instrument of nourishment, nutrition is the act of using it?the series of coordinated processes whereby the nourishment of the body is effected. A primary purpose of the function of nutrition is: thus, to establish and to sustain the structure and function of all organs and parts of the body?to keep, in short, the mechanisms of the body in perfect running order.
Since body development and function begin months before that body is born into the world it is of the greatest importance that our expectant mothers have a clear understanding of the importance of diet during pregnancy. Sherman of Columbia University has shown the very marked physical differences in the offspring from mothers afforded an adequate diet as compared with the offspring of mothers with an inadequate diet. Sound healthy bodies with strong, well built bones, and teeth are the birthright of every child. The foundation for these is laid long before the child is born. Every expectant mother develops a mental image of the sort of boy or girl she would like to bear. Naturally, she hopes, and may I say?prays, that her child will be strong, sturdy, well shaped, of sound frame and have beautiful teeth. Not every mother realizes that the care she takes of herself during pregnancy to ensure a safe delivery is also a vital part of the planning necessary for sound bones and teeth. Regulated diets, under competent medical supervision, mean sufficient quantities of all the essential elements needed for proper growth and development of the body and the proper formation and calcifying of the teeth and bones. Systematic schedules of rest, sleep, exercise, and fresh air are essential for the mother, and these in turn play a part in the development of the expected child. If we accept the report of our dentists that fewer than twenty-five per cent of our children have sound teeth, I feel sure that this number might be greatly increased, if our expectant mothers realized that the formation of their babies' permanent teeth begins as early as the fourth month of fetal life.
The problem of adequate nutrition becomes even more complex after birth. If the mother elects to nurse her baby and has an adequate supply of milk which the child can tolerate, the problem for the first few months is comparatively simple. She must not, however, forget the importance of the protective elements found in cod liver oil, orange and tomato juices. Felding, a German investigator, reports that of 86,000 infants in Germany in 1935 who died before reaching one year of age, one-half succumbed to dietary disturbances, caused in very many instances by lack of breast feeding.
The importance of diet as the child develops is aptly expressed by Dr. W. McKim Marriott: "As the pediatrician deals with the body during the growing period, he may be compared with the builder of edifices; the internist and surgeon with the repair men. Given a solidly constructed structure, it will last well, and the minimum of repair work will be required. We cannot alter the general plans of the architect, but we can see that the proper materials go into the construction. Two buildings of the same size, and outward appearance may differ greatly, depending upon the care taken in construction; the one may approach perfection in structure and wear well, the other, because of the use of poor materials will not withstand wear and tear. It is so with the child's body; the architectural plan of nature may be excellent, but with skimping on materials a poor structure may result."
Adequate nutrition implies far more than the attainment and maintenance of a certain body size and weight or a certain thickness of adipose tissue. A child may be of average stature for the age and have an average height-weight ratio, yet, the nutrition cannot be considered as satisfactory if the child is anemic, has weak, flabby muscles, poor posture, carious teeth, has but little resistance to infection, and is incapable of sustained physical or mental effort. The growing body must be supplied with necessary building materials to perfect its structure and to provide adequately for functional activity. If the total fuel or caloric value of the food is inadequate to provide for the energy exchange, the laying down of body tissues is of necessity interfered with, or else tissues already formed are destroyed to meet the energy demands.
What are the materials necessary for proper and adequate nutrition? They are oxygen, water, and the digestion products of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral elements and vitamins. These may be derived from the following food stuffs:
(1) A good whole-cereal grain or mixture of whole-cereal grains or a good whole-meal bread. (2) Milk and the products of milk?butter, cheese, buttermilk, etc. (3) Eggs. (4) Green leaf vegetables. (5) Root vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, etc. (6) Legumes?such as peas, beans, etc. (7) Fruit. (8) Meat. (9) Water.
That these provide all elements and vitamins needed for normal nutrition is evident from the fact that they are the ingredients of the national diets of certain races of northern India whose physique and health, when they make use of their national diets in their entirety, are unsurpassed by any other races of mankind.
Detailed information on adequate diets as well as suggestions on how to make them appetizing to children can be secured from circulars and pamphlets furnished by our own State Board of Health as well as by the U. S. Public Health Service and Department of Agriculture.
The appetite serves, in general, as a good guide to the total amount of food needed, and providing a suitable dietary mixture is offered there is little danger of under or overfeeding when the amount of food taken is regulated by the appetite of a normal infant or child. Normal infants and children, given all they wish to eat of a well balanced diet, are not likely to become overnourished.
It is often stated that the instinct serves as a fairly reliable guide in the selection of foods, and examples are cited of primitive people with no knowledge of nutrition who instinctively choose well balanced diets and even of young children who, given free selection, choose diets which meet their nutritional requirements. While in general the instinct may lead the individual to select a complete diet this cannot always be relied upon. In most families, mothers must be constantly on the alert if every child in the family receives an adequate supply of all the necessary elements of a balanced diet.
When President Brigham Young said, "This is the place," he probably little realized that the land of Deseret could be made to produce every necessary nutritional element for his people. That being true, it is a reflection on our intelligence when we must admit that there are large groups of children in almost every community in the state suffering from some degree of malnutrition. It is an interesting fact that children in many of our rural and farming areas are actually malnourished from the lack of milk and vegetables. Then too, we must not overlook the economic factor in our present social set-up. It is tragic, but true, that in many of our poorer homes, the diet consists almost wholly of bread and potatoes. Under a proper functioning of our Church Security program such conditions ought not to exist.
The problem of proper nutrition of our children resolves itself largely into one of education. I know of no organization which, in cooperation with our state and local health agencies, is in a better position or better qualified to carry on such an educational program than the Relief Society of the Church! What greater objective could any relief organization have than the development of generations of normal, well developed, healthy children? While spiritual growth is not dependent upon proper physical development, I feel sincerely that the Creator intended that His children should be physically sound and well in order that they might be mentally and spiritually strong.
 
ADEQUATE PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT?ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Ora W. Chipman
"For every child understanding and the guarding of his personality as his most precious right."?The Children's Charter.
One of the major objectives in the field of child welfare is that of attempting to secure for every child the development of a personality and of a character capable of meeting every stress and strain of life with confidence and eventual happiness?a personality which will enable him to realize his highest possibilities.
A good concept of personality was submitted at the White House Conference by Dr. Bronson Crothers, who defined it as, "the individual with all his emotional and intellectual peculiarities, trying to realize happiness and efficiency in the environment in which he lives."
Everyone, then, has personality; everyone?even he who seems to fail?is trying to create a successful life. The fortunate individual with the healthful mental attitudes of an adequate personality will succeed.
It is now the belief of many psychologists that adult behavior is the direct result of seeds of behavior planted in early childhood. The opinion of experts at the White House Conference was that factors that distort personality development exercise their greatest effects during the first six or seven years of life, and that those are the best years for development of desirable character traits and for modification of undesirable traits already established.
It has been estimated by authorities that there is a vast number of mentally ill people, not under treatment, who are suffering from serious but wholly avoidable distortions of personality probably caused by faulty training in childhood. There are, also, vast numbers of children who are seriously delinquent and of children and adolescents who are inmates of mental hospitals. One child out of every three is considered by child welfare representatives at the White House Conference to have personality difficulties which are serious enough to require the attention of a psychiatrist. These estimates help us to realize the significance of the development of healthful mental attitudes in childhood.
Conclusions from surveys to discover qualities generally considered as attributes of an attractive personality indicate that the most outstanding are: attractive physical appearance, intelligence, pleasing temperament, and sound character. Of these temperament and character are the most important. It is a common belief that temperament is inherited, but it now seems probable that this assumption is incorrect. "Temperamental reactions are learned habits formed in the early years. Much of the fundamental nature of temperament has been determined by the end of the first three years." The child's temperament consists of his attitudes toward the various phases of life. These attitudes are developed, not born. "Children who are gloomy or optimistic, suspicious or trustful, timid or courageous, loving or hateful, have been taught these modes of feeling, or they have stumbled into them, for these characteristics are not inherent in child nature." Regarding character much has been written and detail will be unnecessary here. The most admirable

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and most successful characters seem to be based on attitudes of love and trust both in a supreme being and in fellow man. Fundamental also is faith in their own ability to live happy useful lives. But even these characteristics are implanted in early childhood.
Diverging from the positive values of character let us consider some of the most outstanding pitfalls into which children drift and often remain with consequent damage to their personalities. Some of these are excessive modesty, suspiciousness, bashfulness, withdrawing into one's self, desire to play alone, constant whining, fears, day dreaming, demands for attention, sensitiveness, sulkiness, and anger. Of these fear and anger seem to be most damaging. Fear has played such an important part in breaking down personality that eminent students of mental health speak of it as the "chaos of fear," and the "bogey of fear." Many fears are in the subconscious,

influencing lives without the conscious knowledge of the person. It probably produces more unhappiness and more abnormalities than any other known cause. It can be overcome by proper treatment. A fear carefully examined usually disappears. A fear should be replaced with a situation which a child can meet with confidence, keeping his faith in God and restoring his faith in himself. We should provide in our training for the formation of the habit of facing difficulties now and practically, for the need of constructive work, and for habits of normal reaction to feeling?or healthful emotions.
It is our aim in child welfare work to help mothers lay the foundations for these healthful mental attitudes of normal buoyant personalities equipped to develop the greatest possibilities of life. The more we learn of the exact science of creating adequate well integrated personalities in our children the more progress we make, the happier we help to make the lives of generations now and to come.
First General Session
WHO'S WHO IN RELIEF SOCIETY IN 1937
By Ida Petersen Beal
A golden opportunity is ours to draw to your attention the Who's Who in Relief Society for the year 1937. Ten Magazine agents have "gone over the top" in securing the highest percentage of subscriptions. We wish to thank all our Magazine Agents who have been so earnest in their efforts. These splendid women have worked so faithfully, unmindful many times of their own physical discomfort, and we see them and their labor as a bright background for our Who's Who today.

The women who rate as our Who's Who come from many sections of the United States, and one from faroff Australia, which they say "lies under the world." Naturally we ask, "How did they do it?" What was their equipment? Some few items are listed which have helped materially in their success. When on duty, they were prepared; pencil, paper for accuracy, reinforced with prayer, purpose, personality, and perseverance. They translated an ideal into a purpose and

they have brought honor to our beloved organization. So in behalf of the Relief Society it is a pleasure to present each of these ten women, with a bound volume of the for 1937 in recognition of their achievement. The names of our winners are as follows:
1.?Hurstville Branch Violet Cook
2.?Worland Branch Clara Gheen
3.?Milo Branch Lila Gildea
4.?Cody Big Horn Zelda Moore
5.?Elko Nevada Claris Cameron
6.?Basin Big Horn Lova Kinghorn
7.?La Grande First Union Emma Stringham
8.?Pittsburg Australian Mission Gwen R. Wrathall
9.?McGill Nevada Louisa Johnson
10.?Eighth Ogden Alta H. Poulson
Big Horn Mission
North Idaho Falls
Eastern States Mission
 
ADDRESS
By Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon
As I have reviewed the Relief Society in the ninety-six years of its existence, I have come to the conclusion that it is the greatest welfare organization of women in the world. I know of no other with the number of members and engaged in the same field which is doing such splendid volunteer welfare work and performing other activities as efficiently as is this organization.

I have here a brief statement prepared under the direction of the General Presidency of Relief Society, not entirely complete, of what was done in a general way in cooperation with the Church Security program last year in 99 out of 118 stakes. I will take time enough to read it: Number of Quilts made, 4,097; Number of New Articles of Clothing Made, 8,452; Number of Articles of Clothing Remodeled, 15,808; Number of Quarts of Fruit Canned, 102,803; Number of Quarts of Vegetables Canned, 134,585; Number of Pounds of Fruit Dried, 42,205; Number of Pounds of Vegetables Dried, 4,479; Number of Families Taught to Put Up Their Own Food Supplies, 3,301; Number of Families Taught to Do Their Own Sewing, 2,293; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning Centers, 2,027; Total Number of Days of Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 40,850; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 3,997; Number of Women Who Have Given Volunteer Service in Canning, Sewing or Other Projects, 14,319.
The volunteer service was given by women who are largely engaged in their own households, but who also work in Relief Society as officers and teachers, finding time to give much service for the benefit and blessing of others. In addition thereto, the Relief Society has collected and has disbursed for relief in cash donations last year $67,632.00. To me this is a very remarkable statement. When the report is entirely complete it will doubtless show about 16% more.
In my experience of twenty-one years while in the Stake Presidency, and approximately thirteen years in the Presiding Bishopric, Relief Society officers and teachers have shown themselves to be among the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
most active and dependable workers in the Church.
A question has been presented to me which I have been requested to answer. The question is: "The Relief Society has been given the responsibility of making investigations, and finding the needs of the families. When this is done and the report given to the Bishop, and he ignores the report and says the family doesn't need the help suggested, what is the Relief Society President to do?"
To answer that properly I should like to present it to the particular Bishop concerned. But I will say that all should appreciate the importance, as they have been requested to do, of having the Relief Society officers who are trained in the essentials of social service, investigate for them all cases who desire relief, and recommend the necessary help. Also they should have the Relief Society administer the relief under their direction.
The Bishoprics have a great variety of responsibilities. Besides, they do not have the facilities at hand to investigate for themselves. To conserve their time, and to employ the means available through the Relief Society Social Service, this work will be more effectually done. Except in very urgent cases the Bishopric should not expend money for relief on any cases without having the investigation and the recommendation by the Relief Society officers. If that is done I am sure that in every case greater justice and fairness will be shown.
There are people who will try to take advantage of the Church. I had a telegram from the Branch President of one of the Eastern cities only yesterday, in which a man who had just arrived from the West, asked for relief upon his arrival there. How could he travel all the way to that Eastern city and then have

spent all his money and be in need of help? There may be conditions where people might be short of means temporarily. But for people to travel across the continent and ask for help immediately upon their arrival, looks rather suspicious. It is rather surprising to me. It happened that we had in our office a reliable report from California that this man had been for years going from ward to ward begging from various Bishops, depending on the Church, without doing anything in return. We suggested if he were able to get to Washington he should find a way to get back to his home, that we do not encourage those in need to travel from place to place. They should remain in their own communities, because there they have established residence, and they are entitled to help either from the County, Government or Church where necessary. But when they come as strangers, it is not fair that they should call upon the Church organizations for help; and they certainly cannot get it from the Government or County relief sources.
The Relief Society Social Service workers are trained in the essentials of social welfare. They are generally women of mature experience, possessed of the spirit of kindness, sympathy and good judgment. When they make a report to the Bishop as to whether or not any families need help, I feel, and I have told the Bishops, it should be their pleasure to accept the Relief Society recommendations. The Relief Society is generally better able to get at the real conditions and to distribute relief fairly and sympathetically. If the Bishop refuses to do that, I can only say the Bishop, under the revelation of the Lord, is the judge in Israel and he must be responsible. As a judge, he should accept the information about what is needed by those

who are competent to advise, and he should rightly approve their recommendations.
We are so concerned to see that the Bishoprics avail themselves of the fine social service of the Relief Society in properly determining and caring for the needs of members in distress, that we shall call this important matter again to their prompt attention.
I need not say how important it is to try and bring about conditions which will enable the people who are on relief to obtain employment. It seems there are some conditions prevailing at present throughout the nation which are interfering with economic improvement, and the employment that should be available. There are many factors which appear to be favorable toward increased industrial activity throughout the nation. We must all realize that the way to increase employment must come through fostering private industry. Yet we must take conditions as they are and try to make the best of them by promoting employment and furnishing relief wherever necessary among the members of the Church.
I would like to say a few words about what I think the women of Relief Society can do. This proposition of developing handcraft is one that will offer possibilities. For example, in one of the hotels in this city, the draperies for the windows were woven and made in a little backwoods section of West Virginia by a group of women in that locality. There is much in the nature of handicraft being fostered by Relief Society that may develop into very worth while industries, and there are many more, as suggested by Director Peterson, that can be promoted throughout this State.
Another thing I would like to mention is the importance of civic and home improvements. By advancing cleanliness and neatness and by tree
 
planting and all of those things that help to beautify, homes and communities are made much more attractive. In the early days, if you drove through Davis and some parts of Utah Counties, you would find a lot of very beautiful evergreen trees, junipers, pines, firs and others of the evergreen type, and also evergreen shrubbery. They give a greenness and life to our communities in the winter. If we plant some evergreens by the sides and as a background to the houses throughout our communities, it gives life, greenness and beauty and adds much to our surroundings.
In the communities as a whole there is the matter of improving home surroundings. I noticed throughout California that if they cannot afford paint, they will at least whitewash their out-buildings and fences. This is very much worth while. It costs so little to get a little whitewash for these buildings, and it gives a neatness that cannot be obtained otherwise. Of course, good paint is still better in appearance and as a protection for wood.
There is a statement made by President Brigham Young in this connection. Speaking to the women of the Church in early days he said: "It is your right, wives, to ask your husbands to set out beautiful shade and fruit trees, and to get you some vines and flowers with which to adorn the outside of your dwellings; and if your husbands have not time, get them yourselves and plant them out. Some, perhaps, will say, 'O, I have nothing but a log house, and it is not worth that.' Yes, it is worth it. Whitewash and plaster it up, and get vines to run over the door, so that everybody who passes will say, 'What a lovely little cottage!'"
This advice is just as applicable today as it was then. May I suggest to you mothers,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
that after all, the greatest responsibility which rests upon you and your husbands is the training of your children, the greatest resource we have in this state and nation and in this Church?the training of young people to resist vice and immorality, to resist the temptations which will interfere with their progress. Temperance, clean living, and morality are the strong points in the building of character. In connection with the Spirit of the Lord they will help our young people to grow in righteousness. We are in the world, but we are not of the world. We have to meet these temptations,

but let us train our children to learn to resist them. We cannot hide or conceal vices, but we can advise, counsel and train our children so that they will have the power in themselves to resist such temptations as they are bound to meet in life.
The addresses by Director William Peterson of Utah Agricultural College, and Henry D. Moyle, Chairman of General Church Security Committee, will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.
Second General Session
The following are organizations and reorganizations since October Conference.
ORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Appointed President
February, 1938 Mount Graham Ethel D. Payne
 (Divided from St. Joseph)
February, 1938 Phoenix Elnora Shupe
 (Divided from Maricopa)
January, 1938 Smithfield Annie M. Farr
 (Divided from Benson)

REORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Released Appointed President
Jan. 1938 Benson Annie M. Farr Lula E. Johnson
Feb. 1938 Summit Myrtle Richens Katherine M. Judd
East German Mission?Ida D. Rees
West German Mission?Susan G. Kelly
Swiss-Austrian Mission?Fawn B. McKay
Dec. 1937 Big Horn Hazel N. Boyack Mary Davis
Feb. 1938 Maricopa Elnora Shupe Ella T. Lee
Feb. 1938 St. Joseph Ethel D. Payne Martha Westenskow
Jan. 1938 Union Fay H. Harris Ellen S. Bean
 
STANDARDS OF LIVING
By Counselor Kate M. Barker
Today when there is so much revolt against old orders, many of the standards which we thought were fixed and stable are being lowered. Some youth are asking, "Can one succeed in a business way, and be honest?" Someone must carry these banners forward.
There are certain standards of living which are basic to which we must adhere. The future depends on the willingness of today's leadership to carry these banners, and to awaken and arouse youth. It is not resources we lack, either material or human. It is the will to be and to lead. Surely our Father in Heaven has the right to expect that the members of His Church will assume this leadership. "For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required."
In our country we have mass civilization, schools, libraries, science in service for all, and we are now talking of security for all. No amount of emphasis upon education, opportunity or security can obscure the basic necessity of the fundamental qualities of honesty, loyalty, industry, cooperation, absolute integrity of mind and heart. Culture is only a veneer unless there is this integrity of heart. This must be built in the homes.
But most people are spiritually lazy. It is easy to send a child to school to learn history, etc., but it takes time to watch the child in his play and all the acts of everyday life to see that he plays fair, that he is loyal to what he knows is right, that he is learning to cooperate, to get down to hard work and to do his work thoroughly. The same characteristics that are developed in little things will carry over to the bigger things of life.
We must build such a sensitiveness to truth and beauty that anything that is false or vulgar is repulsive. This is our only safety. We want our boys and girls to fulfill fine missions. These must be planned for. The Gospel is truth and beauty, and unless a person is fundamentally honest and clean he will not appreciate the real beauty of the Gospel. We cannot have moral integrity without mental honesty.
We must learn to think; we must not pick up an opinion here and a carelessly thrown scrap of information there, or fill our minds with ready-made statements and imagine we know how to think. The world needs straight and honest thinking.

There is no doubt that the world is progressing in social thinking?relief for the needy, make-work for the unemployed, old age assistance. But this type of civilization calls for a higher type of individual?higher in those fundamental qualities of honesty, industry and cooperation. These projects are for those who need. Any attempt on the part of parents and grandparents to evade the law by taking what is not absolutely needed, by not giving an honest day's work, by concealing their property or turning it over to children, is dishonesty. It cannot be concealed from the children and grandchildren.
Standards are not lowered suddenly. A certain mental attitude is developed in a few, and unless counteracted by the active influence of the majority, develops slowly into a general lowering of standards, a generalized mode of thinking. A definite, positive effort must be made to counteract this growing tendency of wanting something for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
nothing, of doing only enough to get by. Think of the mothers, to say nothing of the youth of the next generation, depending on our success in maintaining a high standard of integrity.
SOCIAL ETHICS
General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
The term social must be understood in its first meaning?companionship or mutual relationships with others of one's kind; group life in other words. Ethics is the science which deals with conduct in so far as it is considered right or wrong, good or bad. In group life there must be organization and effort. This subject, naturally, has a great appeal for Relief Society as it emphasizes the ideal of the organization, the animating spirit of our Church and the spirit of sisterhood, to be willing to serve each other and share burdens and privileges, and to develop the spirit of self-help so vital to success in life.
We stand today facing one of the great crises of the world. We need clear thinking, great courage, firm faith to guide us. Our heritage is one of traditions which have been developed through a study of the past.
We must teach them to realize that liberty is a great ethical ideal, and cannot exist without justice, and the highest aim of justice is the protection of liberty, which always must depend upon self-discipline and self-control.
As we regard the world today, deep gratitude fills our hearts for this land of "choice above all other lands," where we live under the finest pronouncement of social ethics ever to be given of a government, guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States. During the current year we have witnessed great epic in history, Lewis and Clark, and William Clark, that daring woman Sacajawea, have told the heart and soul of America's story.

Of all the civilizing agencies of the human family, the Bible is therefore the greatest treasure house of social ethics. Our art, literature and music, laws and government, our family and

community life, the mold of our civilization and all that it implies are shaped by this greatest contribution from the ancient to the modern world. From beginning to end it is full of priceless stories and examples of all our highest ideals. We know that the New Testament is the most ethical book ever given to the world. It is the source of the only perfect social order. Every miracle performed, every parable uttered is a perfect example of applied social ethics. True neighborliness and brotherhood were the cornerstones of Christ's teaching. This is one way of expressing the great value of every human personality which is so precious in the sight of our Father in Heaven. "If you love me, feed my sheep." Is this after all not the source of all good manners?the very flower of our civilization? What we need is more application of the principles in our daily life. Historic and spiritual examples are of no value unless we can use them in solving our problems. A very beautiful and a very useful lesson is expressed in The Log Cabin Lady. It was an eloquent plea for appreciation of the real values in life, yet it called attention to many of our shortcomings and demonstrated how one may be just as manly and just as womanly and yet pay due respect to the refinements of life. This is not a reverent age and lack of reverence often leads to a Jack of courtesy. I believe we are all shocked at times by the lack of respect shown to elderly people, to women, and oh, so often to things which others hold sacred. These offenses against good manners just couldn't happen if we applied the rule of conduct given by the greatest Teacher who ever lived. If we exercised the same care in public buildings and places of worship that we do in our own highly prized homes, the vandalism so common, would be abolished. If we could only live the two laws upon which hang, "all the law and the Gospel,' we would insure the observance of a perfect system of social ethics as well as realize fullest spiritual development. ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison REVIEWING the activities of Relief Society during the past six months, one is amazed at the amount of work which has been accomplished by the members of the organization. In many avenues of service women are endeavoring to raise life to its highest level. Spiritual security is found only in action, which like the plane's onward motion is necessary to preserve buoyancy and balance. In understanding, in love, in usefulness, the opportunities for service are boundless. Spiritual and intellectual development are given to Relief Society members in the meetings held each week. Here lessons are studied in Theology, Literature, Social Service or Child Guidance, and household arts are taught. Rich experience comes to 1,918 class leaders who prepare lessons each week, and faith is strengthened through the opportunity of bearing testimony. At these meetings the Relief Society Singing Mothers are a source of real pleasure, bringing a spiritual as well as a cultural influence to the group. Visiting Teachers are also a RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE mighty force for good. Their labors never cease, summer or winter; whatever the weather the work goes on. It would be interesting if we could compute the miles and miles these sisters walk each year in performing their service of love. Aid to the Bishops in caring for the sick and needy, especially in rehabilitating families, has been one of the Society's outstanding activities. What tact, what love and patience are required to understand the heartaches and sorrows of those whose load is too heavy to be borne alone. In order to do all in our power to strengthen Church Security, an industry, under the name of Mormon Handicraft, has been established. Thousands of dollars have gone into homes from this enterprise to supplement family incomes. The Bread-making Project has been helpful. Hundreds of demonstrations have been given and reports of the interest revived in this important household art has been most gratifying. Improved methods of laundering have created great interest. The skill in remodeling used clothing has been developed to a stage of perfection that is truly amazing. Cooperating with the State Board of Health, Relief Society women have assisted in holding clinics, and much remedial work has been accomplished. The Magazine drive which closed in November was _ outstanding. While the Australian Mission carried off the laurels with 338% subscriptions in the Hurstville Branch, we remember with gratitude each Magazine Agent for the excellent service to Relief Society. Even if the goal of 100% was not always reached, the fine missionary work accomplished in wards and branches was of great worth. Relief Society work is not confined 355 to the United States alone. Lessons are given in many tongues, but the spirit of the work is the same. Our records show that 18,290 days were spent with: the sick and lonely since last Conference. These were not leisure hours. Home work was not neglected, but women testify in all seriousness that they are given added strength when in service to humanity. Has not our Father in Heaven always lifted our burdens to the extent that we have diligently sought Him? Although Relief Society has accomplished much, there is still the call for service. As long as there are ill, malnourished children, as long as there are poorly managed homes,' as long as there are lonely hearts and people who have lost faith in God, there is work for women of Relief Society. Would we have the power to do these things? The secret of power lies in willing obedience to the small requirements, the things we sometimes feel are too insignificant. The burden of the Savior's message, when He dwelt among men, was, "I do not mine own will but the will of my Father that sent me." Could any principle of the Gospel or any advice given by the Prophet of God for our good be too simple to win our attention? At heart we are all religious but following our own ideas or desires often deprives us of great blessings. If we could only realize that the things the Gospel stands for are the things of most value in life! Do human beings ever get so much on a small investment as on the little actually invested in willing obedience to the word of the Lord? This is the simple cost of spiritual power. More than anything else, our world needs spirituality. Multitudes have lost faith and vision and courage. These are inside values. They are qualities of the spirit. 356 How can Relief Society women help to restore this spirituality? How can they develop such faith as the Centurion exhibited when he asked the Lord, Jesus Christ, to heal his servant? He said, "Speak the word only and my servant shall be healed." We have two avenues given to us in which to use our influence, the home and the community. We have been given the injunction, "'to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of community life". To develop faith in our homes we should have cleanliness, order, industry, and love. We should establish the practice of family prayer, keep the Sabbath day holy, and cheerfully perform acts of kindness for our families. The Relief Society Home Scriptural Reading Project offers subject matter for spiritual development. How many of our children know the names of the Church Authorities and the offices they hold? How many read the Book of Mormon and know how it was given to us, the Articles of Faith? Are children taught to take care of their bodies and that health depends very largely on what one eats? In community life we can lead in reverence for houses of worship, respect for public property, health through cooperation with county nurses. Conduct depends largely upon health, and health upon the food one eats. In our Membership Campaign the best way to get new members is to show by our lives that Relief Society is a benefit to us. I count it an asset to be a member of Relief Society. One's strength is in the righteousness of the cause, the worthiness of its purpose, the nobility of the work. They nerve us for effort, sustain in defeat, inspire to further endeavor. The Gospel gives us the power of patience, endurance in the long wait and assurance of final victory.

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1937
Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary

Balance Cash on Hand January 1, 1937:

Total Cash Receipts:
General Fund:
 Total General Fund Receipts..... $185,902.34

Total Cash to Account For...........$528,914.11

 

Cash Disbursements:
General Fund:
 Other Disbursements............. 25,377.26
 Total General Fund Disbursements $177,755.00
Stake Board Disbursements........... 57,918.97

Total Cash Disbursements...........$305,367.46

Balance Cash on Hand December 31, 1937:

Merchandise Received................$ 20,688.94
Merchandise Disbursed............... 15,169.95

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS
DECEMBER 31, 1937

ASSETS
Cash on Hand, Presiding Bishop's Office.. 409,919.41
(Wheat Trust Fund)

Real Estate and Buildings...........$ 161,033.46
Furniture and Fixtures.............. 91,077.51

Other Stake Board Assets............$ 64,734.79

LIABILITIES
Stake Board Net Assets.............. 105,857.51

STATISTICS
Membership:
January 1, 1937:
Executive and Special Officers....... 15,711

Increase:
Admitted to Membership During Year... 10,341
Total Membership and Increase........ 83,403

Decrease:
Removed or Resigned................. 7,415

 

Membership:
December 31, 1937:
Executive and Special Officers....... 16,026

The Total Membership Includes:
General Officers and Board Members... 23
Stake Officers and Board Members..... 1,372
Mission Presidents and Officers...... 156

Number of Missions.................. 32
Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations... 1,918
Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts... 14,296
Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards... 149,851
Number of s Taken... 41,721
Number of Executive Officers Taking ... 6,321
Number of Meetings Held in Wards.... 65,001
Number of Stake Meetings Held....... 2,377
Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held... 1,250
Number of Ward Conferences Held..... 1,499
Average Attendance at Ward Meetings.. 31,203
Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers... 991,623
Number of Families Helped........... 16,185
Number of Days Spent with the Sick... 36,477
Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound... 204,125
Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial... 1,663
Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers... 7,595

COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS

DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Stakes Missions
 Total Membership in Missions 13,616

Total Membership in Stakes........ 61,448

Total Membership in Stakes and Missions......... 75,064

(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.